Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer with C# .NET experience Farmers Branch, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Cash Processing Solutions March 2018 to July 2019 Contact: Phill Smith - available on request    CPS8000  Project Synopsis and my responsibilities:  ? CPS8000 is a large money processing and counting machine, where notes travel through a beltpath and are tracked and analyzed then sent to certain pockets or a shredder  ? Software components are state machines implemented in C#, running on several Windows PCs attached to the machine  ? I implemented and made test runs for several of these components  ? I also helped write a simulator which runs on a separate machine and emulates sensor inputs, so as to test the software properly  ? I debugged the software following these tests    Universal Display Controller  Project Synopsis::  ? CPS8000 needs various extra screens, small, which produce various information and functionality  ? Solution was using a Raspberry Pi with its own attached screen as a kiosk, and Godot for the software platform  ? UDC app receives UDP message information describing a WinForms screen, turns it into a Godot screen with various Godot controls such as labels, images, and buttons  ? Is compatible with many screens, and also touch compatible.    VSTS Access  Project Synopsis::  ? Various Winforms apps to access the Azure Dev Ops database and perform various reports, graphs, and operations.  ? Ran on the C# .NET framework. Software Developer HiEnd Accents June 2016 to January 2018 Contact: Jay He - jayh@hiendaccents.com  Contact: Allison Bailey - Allysonemc@gmail.com  Contact: Laura Durham - LaMiDur@msn.com    Excel Mass Image Insert (Automation project)  Project Synopsis:  ? In engaging with colleagues, discovered an opportunity to automate client product catalog documentation in Excel.  ? Used Visual Studio and Windows Forms to host the project, leveraged C# to create and test simple program to insert multiple images into Excel.  ? Learned how the company organizes photos so I could have my program find them and upload them correctly.  ? Learned about company's out of date FTP image site, added to the project to automatically upload missing FTP images to the server and list FTP link in Excel.  ? Turned 2 day projects for salespersons into 10 minute task, saving time and money.    Packing Slip retrieval (Automation project)  Project Synopsis:  ? Assigned by owner to speed up process of fetching packing slips from client.  ? Used Visual Studio and Windows Forms to host the project, used C# to make basic program to run a background browser to navigate to the web portal and screen shot packing slips.  ? Learned how to work with the .NET browser and use the event driven architecture  ? Learned how to go into a web page's HTML and find and change elements in order to allow my program to automatically log in and take the screens of the packing slips  ? Turned a daily task into a simple program, saving time and money for the company.    Order Import  Project Synopsis:  ? Previously, orders had been imported by hand through SAP Business One by colleagues. Owner assigned me to automating the order importation process.  ? Owner suggested using SAP's own Data Import Workbench.  ? Called SAP support to figure out which tables needed to be imported to.  ? Used Visual Studio and Windows Forms to host the main project, used C# to make basic program to format the orders taken from the website into separate tables to import.  ? Later learned about colleagues struggling with out of date or missing info in the database, and used C# to modify program to be able to take spreadsheets and import them directly to the SQL database with SQL queries made at run time.  ? Turned daily 3-4 hour task into 15 minute task, saving time and money, and laying the groundwork for later projects. Student UT Dallas June 2016 to July 2016 final graduation project) Jun-2016 - Jul-2016  Contact: Jesse Lee (CEO) - jesse@m2mcircuits.com  Project Synopsis:  ? Assigned to Jesse Lee and m2m circuits to design an iPhone app that uses Weaved and WebIOPi to connect to a Raspberry Pi and control and monitor its GPIOs.  ? Learned stateless programming, and constructed the project in Xcode with Swift.  ? Project partner in charge of learning how Weaved and WebIOPi worked, relayed information to me and I implemented logging in to both services on the iPhone app.  ? Learned making Get and Set requests with Rest API to turn on and monitor GPIOs.  ? Learned about and made GUI with stateless programming, relying on multiple Rest requests at once for the GUI display. Student UT Dallas February 2016 to April 2016 Saw a youtube video on using neural networks to make an AI play Super Mario World.  ? Decided to try my hand at my own Neural Network system.  ? Using C# and code from a video game I made in 2010, made a successful experiment with creatures hunting food.    Ticket Printing for Firehouse Theater (volunteer project)  Contact: David Moore - dmoore3037@sbcglobal.net  Project Synopsis:  ? Theater manager puts me in charge of printing the tickets for the shows.  ? Drop the old process and start from scratch in Java, but wanted easier design and deployment so I discovered Windows Forms and C#.  ? Made a basic program that creates tickets, learned about threading execution.  ? Turned an all-day affair into a process lasting 15 minutes for those working at the theater. Education Bachelor in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Texas at Dallas - Dallas, TX Associate of Science Richland Community College Skills .NET, VISUAL STUDIO, C#, C++, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, PYTHON, SQL, JAVA, IOS, XCODE, APEX, MYSQL