Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Kroger Digital, OH Cincinnati, OH Work Experience Software Developer Kroger Digital, OH November 2017 to Present • Experience working in Agile (Scrum) framework with collaborative use of JIRA for planning and tracking of issues.  • Responsible for providing and maintaining item data within the internal systems of Kroger.  • Responsible for creating and maintaining an internal tool called Item Validation Tool (IVT), which allows taxonomies to verify and update item data. IVT is build using ReactJS as the frontend and Spring Boot as the backend written in Java.  • Heavy use of Docker to develop, test, and ship applications on to the Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF).  • Use of Kafka architecture to handle high volume data in a more robust, reliable and fault tolerant manner.  • Responsible for a REST API called Product-Composite, which provides a way for the Web and Mobile apps in Kroger to gather item, nutrition, inventory, price, and location data. It is written in Kotlin, which uses Spring Webflux and Project Reactor for high response times and non-blocking asynchronous code.  • Build an app called Night-Deploys that allows the team to perform automated night deploys using Gitlab APIs. It is build using ReactJS as the frontend and Spring Boot with Kotlin as the backend.  • Experience in creating dashboards, visualizations and alarms using Kibana and Elasticsearch. Automation Engineer LBrands, OH March 2017 to November 2017 • Working closely with the Product Owner (PO), Business Analyst (BA), and Developers to thoroughly understand the Application Under Test (AUT) and identify any ambiguous requirements.  • Extensive use of Selenium WebDriver and TestNG to automate the testing process.  • Participating in Sprint meetings to discuss about the milestones achieved and the future work that needs to be done by the deadline of the sprint.  • Active participant in Peer Code Reviews, giving and receiving any feedback for the improvement of the code.  • Continuous Integration using Jenkins which is done as a part of the nightly build process for regression testing.  • Building framework using Java for reading the interface generated reports and validating them for data and format so that they can be sent to the third-party API's.  • Building a single page application using AngularJS for better usability of the interface-automation project.  • Automating the Oracle HCM HR-access website for retrieving the required information that needs to be validated against the reports generated by the interfaces.  • Using the notion of reflection in Java to call the methods dynamically which are specific to each interface specification files.  • Use of Log4j to generate the log files which contains the detailed information about the formatting issues with the report files. Web Developer Mentoring Institute, NM January 2016 to December 2016 • Build a program that automatically assigns rooms to all the presentations at the conference.  • Rendered the results of the above program using AngularJS in a single page.  • JDBC driver to retrieve data from the MySQL database, and rendering it in a form of an object using POJO classes and Data Access Object (DAOs).  • Built question answer forum for the paid members of the website using the Model View Controller (MVC) design pattern and its implementation using PHP, JavaScript, HTML, BootStrap, CSS and MySQL.  • Tested the question answer forum using Selenium, TestNG, Maven, and log4j.  • Built a mobile app for the 2016 conference using a content management system  • JavaScript for generating statistical reports regarding conference proceedings. Education Master's in computer science in computer science University Of New Mexico January 2015 to December 2016 Bachelor's in computer engineering in computer engineering Pune University July 2010 to May 2013 Diploma in computer engineering in computer engineering Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Technological University July 2007 to May 2010 Skills DOCKER (2 years), Git (4 years), HTML (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (4 years), REACTJS (2 years), HTML 5 (3 years), CSS (3 years), MYSQL (5 years), Java (5 years), Kotlin (1 year), Spring Boot (3 years), Spring Webflux (1 year), Kafka (2 years), Mongo (1 year), JUnit (4 years), Git (4 years), Postman (4 years)