Lead iOS Developer Lead iOS <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead iOS Developer - Team Extension SRL Seattle, WA Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Lead iOS Developer Team Extension SRL December 2017 to Present Bucuresti (Romania)  - implement client specific features on the go  - solve previous crashes reported by crash tracking tools like Crashlytics  - releasing features without impacting the LIVE version of the app - core data migration / back-up and secure pesonal data / persistance of the saved user preferences and more  - creating bi-monthly reports with statistics of improvements  - using Instruments to keep the app smooth and improve responsiveness  - fixing coredata concurrency issues  - loading big-data on background threads to make the user-experience better  - became the lead iOS on the project after proving the client I can deliver hard tasks in ultimate stress  conditions and keep calm and being an example for the team  - integrated Alamofire Http Framework / Alamofire Image downloader / AppsFlyer / iCarousel / Firebase analytics / Firehose analytics / Marque label / Algolia instant search and many others to help  with the productivity and well-being of the app  - the app uses the native iOS player to deliver stream data on demand, so we used caching and downloading music tracks at different quality, based on user listening behavior, the player works in  app foreground and in background, and the time played, as well as many other analytics events are  sent in batches to the server.  - created and distributed tasks across the team and tracked times with sprint points  - got involved in decision making features for the app and worked closely with client to maintain the best level of trust. iOS Software Developer IBM - Bucharest, RO August 2015 to December 2017 Romania)  Developed iOS apps from scratch in native-Swift.  Integrated SAP, REST-full, XML back-end  Auto-layout, core-data, offline sync-mechanisms, fetch results controllers, mk-mapview  Integrated cocoa-pods  The project won Solution of the Year award in Germany.  My main responsabilities were to write clean code and implement specific tasks in a full agile  environment with 3 weeks sprints, find out neat solutions to problems and as time passed I became  one of the main developers in a team of 12 iOS developers and presented demos to the client HQ is  Germany on a monthly basis. Education High school or equivalent Skills IOS, XCODE, SWIFT, BEST PRACTICES, MENTOR, MANAGERIAL, ESTIMATION, ARCHITECTURE, ARTICULATE, Storyboard Additional Information Communication skills Perfect communication skills developed by speaking in daily stand-ups and client travels.  Kept tech-talk about iOS heap memory allocation, had an audience of over 100 people.  Was the main speaker at DevTalksJunior were I presented From none to one as an iOS develper,  had an audience of 50 people.    Organisational / managerial skills Leadership -helped integrate and teached iOS interns to get used to SWIFT and held presentations to  speed up the process.  Was mentor for 2 iOS interns, that are now integrated in the team.  Organized the team and influenced a clean code guideline and best practices.  Over the years achieved the role of a lead iOS developer and now I keep standards high across the  team and well motivated team members.  Worked closely with the client to prepare the sprints and implemented a full team task estimation  sistem.    Job-related skills -perfectionist (keen to implement clean-code guidelines and keep simple and efficient architecture)  -a good team-mate (helped others succeed)  -Able to assist in iOS Design. Applies iOS Design Principles. Has knowledge of Human Interface  Guidelines. Uses AppKit correctly in their iOS projects. Anticipates successes or obstacles of a  particular design before presented to users for evaluation. (iOS Design Badge)    -Able to assist in IOS App Development. Applies iOS fundamentals in enterprise scenarios. Has  knowledge of Swift, AssemblyKit, AppStore Review Guidelines, development and support of iOS  application developed using iOS native platform, Xcode, Bluemix basics, MFP Basic (iOS Developer  Badge)    27/3/19 © European Union, 2002-2019 http://europass.cedefop.europa.eu  Curriculum vitae Gilbert-Andrei Floarea    The individual can articulate what activities are involved in an implementation, project management  requirements, and requirements validation (Watson Conversation Badge)    Digital skills SELF-ASSESSMENT    Information Content Problem-  Communication Safety  processing creation solving    Proficient user Proficient user Proficient user Proficient user Proficient user    Digital skills - Self-assessment grid    Driving licence B    27/3/19 © European Union, 2002-2019 http://europass.cedefop.europa.eu