Software Developer Intern <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Intern Software Developer - TAB Bank Plain City, UT Computer Engineering Student  After earning my associates degree while in high school, I am currently working towards a Computer Engineering degree.  I have been accepted to the University of Utah to study in their Computer Engineering program. I have been awarded  several scholarships. I have already completed 77 college credit hours, 26 of which are Engineering/Computer Science  hours. I excel in math, engineering, science, English, and social studies. I also enjoy music - I play the piano, guitar, sing  in choir, and have experience in music composition, including writing a soundtrack for a video game. I am looking for an  internship or job, which will provide me with the opportunity to use the skills and knowledge I have acquired; however, I  also want to develop new skills and gain additional experience in my field of study. Work Experience Software Developer Intern TAB Bank - Ogden, UT May 2019 to Present Created a new hire tutorial hosted on internal website. Loan application employees will use the training tutorial to become proficient in the loan application process. This digital training will eliminate veteran employees from  having to train newer employees through these processes.  • Using d3.js I created charts for the Development Manager to display the progress and proficiency of the team  during their two-week sprint.  • Using HTML and CSS I created several web pages to be displayed inside the bank on display monitors. Staff Member Trapper Trails Council - Ogden, UT June 2016 to Present I work at the council high cope course (rock climbing, repelling, and other activities). I'm responsible to take  groups safely through the course while teaching them team building and self-confidence skills. Education High school or equivalent Fremont High School - Plain City, UT May 2019 Associates of General Education in General Education Weber State University - Ogden, UT April 2019 Skills C++, Coding, Python, Microsoft office, Mac, Credit, Problem solving, CSS, HTML 5, Git