Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer Oakland, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer DockPad.io - San Francisco, CA December 2018 to June 2019 ?React.Js, Google Firebase/Material UI, Redux.Js,  • Implemented UI and app interface for customer-facing scheduling system application.  • Translated design team's UX wireframes and mockups into responsive, interactive components, using React.Js and Zeplin.  • Integrated Segment.Io analytic software for personalizing user's experience and user's bug tracking. Software Developer FitnessTrackr - Oakland, CA March 2018 to November 2018 ?React.Js, Node.Js, Express.Js, Passport.Js, React.Js, Redux.Js  • A fitness tracker for people who keep track of their daily macro-nutrient intake.  • Developed an isomorphic app to manage a user's calorie consumption throughout their day.  • Application provides visual representation of how much proteins, carbs, fats, and calories each meal consist.  • Based off their progress, users can update their body measurements to get new fitness reports. Software Developer VB Productions - Oakland, CA August 2017 to March 2018 ?React.Js, Node.Js, MongoDB, Express.Js  • App is a content management system where authorized users can upload content without the assistance of developers.  • Content sent to the server is processed and compressed, which in return reduces file size by 60 ~ 80%.  • App dynamically updates and serves viewers with the most up to date content.  • Hosted on a virtual private server using Digital Ocean and secured with SSL Certificate. Data Analyst Pedroso Consulting April 2015 to April 2016 ?SQL, SPSS, Excel  • Developed and implemented SQL queries to reveal data-type inconsistencies; which has resulted in an increased in efficiency and reduced errors by 99% during data processing.  • Formulated tables were used in reports that had an impact on future year's funding.  • Performed statistical analysis to reveal any trends or correlation used for imperial data in reports. Education BS in Business Management Economics in Business Management Economics University of California - Santa Cruz, CA September 2011 to December 2015 Skills JavaScript (3 years), React.Js (3 years), SQL (4 years), CSS3 (3 years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/bandly http://github.com/bandly