Programmer Analyst/ Software Developer/Python/Data Warehouse Developer Programmer Analyst/<span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Python/Data Warehouse <span class="hl">Developer</span> Programmer Analyst/ Software Developer/Python/Data Warehouse Developer - Fortira Inc • Experience in Core Java including design, development and implementation  • Experience in Python development  • 3 years of project experience in software development  • Experience with object-oriented design and object-oriented analysis, complete system life cycle.  • Hands on experience using MySQL, SQL and working in Eclipse, Net Beans, Android Studio, PyCharm.  • Passionate about learning and delivering software solutions in domains like big data, machine learning, IOT. Work Experience Programmer Analyst/ Software Developer/Python/Data Warehouse Developer Fortira Inc - Princeton, NJ November 2018 to Present Enterprise Data Warehouse/Business Intelligence  Description: This warehouse is projected to assist financial information distribution and transaction reporting services to both financial institutions and securities issuers. These services include the processing and distribution of account statements and trade confirmations. The purpose of this project was to integrate data from various sources and build a strategic global data warehouse for decision support and business metrics.  Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the system, part of the team to meet with end users and business units in order to define the requirements.  • Wrote SQL Queries, Triggers, and Shell Scripts to apply and maintain the Business Rules.  • Extracted the data from SQL Server, Flat files and load into Data warehouse.  • Wrote python code to support the load, map and extract process.  • Created Stored procedures for loading the staging tables  • Designed and developed number of complex mappings, mapplets and reusable objects for the marketing systems to facilitate daily and monthly load of data  • Successfully developed SQL Scripts, database objects, procedures and functions to check supplied data for sense, consistency and accuracy.  • Wrote complex SQL queries to retrieve information from the database depending on user requirement.  • Performed code review and make changes/improvements as required.  • Involved in optimizing database performance by analyzing database objects, creating indexes, creating materialized views etc.  • Migrated existing mappings to production environment.  Environment: Python, MS Server 2014, SQL, Liclipse, MS Server Management Studio, Visual studio Volunteer Research Assistant/Research Project Northern Illinois University - DeKalb, IL August 2017 to May 2018 Intelligent Tutoring System  • Built an online based tutoring system which examines the student's skill set in the form of questionnaires.  • Used Python with Django Framework.  • Reviewed functional and technical documents for the modules developed before starting API implementation.  • Interacted with research team to help resolve bugs/testing approaches.  • Mentored new researchers joined in the team to help them ramp up.  • Used agile methodology to develop and maintain the project.  Environment: Python, Django framework, AI algorithms, MySQL, PyCharm, Unix, SQL Server Android Developer/ Software Engineer Photo Arts August 2017 to December 2017 • Developed new features for proprietary Android applications used on phones and tablets; worked with developers to develop top tier solutions for customers.  • Ensured applications are properly integrated with Android API's  • Used Android Studio 3.0.1 as IDE tool to develop the mobile application.  • Created SQLite database structures that integrate with Android applications and web interfaces  • Known for writing efficient, maintainable and reusable code  • Proficient in design, data structures, problem-solving, and debugging  • Participated in fast-paced development cycles; have completed 100% of deadlines ahead of schedule  • Contributed and participated in new feature/product specifications  Environment: SQLite, Java, Json, Android Studio, Android SDK, XML Software Developer Quote System August 2016 to December 2016 Maintaining Sales Associate and Quote Information  • Built a system that enables the sales force to record their quotes via the Internet  • Designed and Developed the interface to maintain Sales Associate and Quote information  • Developed interface which allows to view, add, edit and delete sales associate records and allows to search and view quotes based on various criteria like status  • Implemented access control for this feature to make sure only authorized personnel can view and modify data.  • JavaScript was used to validate the information.  • Developed a web-based interface using which a client can update his/her personal information. The interface was developed using HTML, CSS.  • Requirement gathering and preparation of User requirement document.  • Inspection/Review of quality deliverables such as Design Documents.  • Created use case diagrams, activity diagrams, class diagrams, workflow process diagrams using StarUML  • Coded reviews and code deployment process.  • Integrated testing and defect fixing.  Environment: Core Java, MySQL, HTML, JavaScript, CSS Software Developer December 2015 to May 2016 • Proposed a novel method for Quos metrification based on Hidden Markov Model(HMM), which further suggests an optimal path for the execution of user requests  • Developed a technique which can be used to measure and predict the behavior of web services in terms of response time  • Demonstrated the feasibility and usefulness of our methodology by drawing experiments on real world data.  • Results have shown how our proposed method can help the user to automatically select the most reliable web service considering several metrics, among them, system predictability and response time variability.  • Developed and validated screens using HTML and JavaScript  • Developed user Interfaces using JSP, HTML, CSS.  • Analyzed the project requirements.  • Designed class diagrams and Sequence Diagrams.  • Bug fixing and documenting workflow diagrams.  Environment: Tomcat 5.5, MySQL, JSP, HTML, CSS, Windows 2003 Server Education Master of Science in Computer Science Northern Illinois University - DeKalb, IL August 2016 to May 2018 Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science Engineering Guru Nanak Institute of Technology - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2012 to May 2016 Skills Mysql, Sql, Sqlite, Android studio, C++, Html, Javascript, Python, Eclipse, Java, Css, Android, Uml, Linux, Unix, Unix/linux, Git, HTML 5 Additional Information SKILLSET    Operating Systems: Windows, Unix/Linux, Android  Programming languages: C, C++, Java, Python  Web technologies: Html 5, CSS, JavaScript.  Databases: MySQL, SQL, SQLite  IDE: Eclipse, Net Beans, Android Studio 3.0.1, PyCharm, Liclipse  UML designing tool: StarUML