.Net Developer .Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> .Net Developer - Nuby Ltd Elgin, IL • Dot NET Specialist with 4 years of experience in Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Implementation of Business Application software using Microsoft .NET technologies.  • Developed applications in .NET Framework 5.0,4.5,4.5.1,4.5.2 on Windows 10, Windows 8 or 8.1, Windows 7, Windows Server 2012, Windows Server 2008 SP2, Windows Server 2008 R2 SP1 and Windows Vista SP2  • Good Hands on Exposure with Investment banking, Credit Card, Financial, Insurance and Automation domains.  • Expert level experience in development of Web and Client/Server applications by implementing N-tier architecture using ASP.NET MVC 5, C#.NET, VB.NET, ADO.NET, SQL Server 2016/2014/2012/2008/2005.  • Good knowledge on .NET 4.5, ASP.NET MVC3, WCF, WPF, LINQ, Silverlight and Generics.  • Good knowledge on desktop-based applications which are strategically effective, risk repellent and easy to maintain.  • Experience in working with Angular 2/4/6 modules, services, templates, directives, services and dependency injection to create a SPA.  • Good knowledge on Business Automation tools, Data processing, Smart Card solutions, Plug-ins, Utilities.  • Experience in developing rich, uniformed User Interface using CSS3, Master pages, Themes, Silverlight, AJAX Controls, Web parts, JQUERY, Photoshop and Flash.  • Extensive experience on modern front-end templating frameworks for JavaScript - Including Bootstrap, jQuery, AngularJS etc.  • Experience in using VISIO for DFDs, ERDs, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams of UML.  • Developed and consumed WCF service. Created XML Data Schema, Created Data contract, Service Contract and operation contract, defined endpoints, created proxy classes and consumed WCF Service.  • Written WPF code and designed GUI using XAML, displayed data in form, created user controls, consumed data services in WPF, created WPF Data grid, master details data entry form, applied layout, styles and used data templates  • Expertise in HTML5, DHTML, CSS3 and also JavaScript and validation controls for performing Form validations.  • Expertise in WSDL, Enterprise library 2016.  • Hands on experience in SQL Server 2016/2008/2005/2000 database design and development in writing Constraints, Indexes, Views and PL/SQL, T-SQL (Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions and Cursors).  • Expertise with all phases of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and UML modeling.  • Experience in working with WCF Services and XML Web Services using SOAP and WSDL following SOA in a distributed environment.  • Experience in developing XML applications using DTD, Schema, DOM, XSLT and X Path.  • Proficiency in implementing AJAX, caching to improve the performance of the applications.  • Experience in working with .NET Remoting, Multi-threading, Assemblies (Private, Shared and GAC), IIS and Serialization.  • Experience in developing the business reports using SSRS and Crystal Reports.  • Experience with SSIS for building performance data integration solutions, including ETL.  • Experience in migration of the projects from ASP to ASP.NET.  • Experience with Agile Methodology, OOAD techniques, Singleton and MVC patterns. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience .Net Developer Nuby Ltd February 2018 to Present The Nuby brand covers feeding, weaning, soothing, play, bath and nursery and boasts patented innovation in all of its categories. Nuby brand products are distributed in over 155 countries around the world since 1970. Luv n' care strives to make the lives of parents and children easy, simple and fun so they can enjoy the most wonderful experiences of growing up, safe in the knowledge that Nuby brand products have been developed, researched and manufactured to the highest standards. As a natural outgrowth of its products, Luv n' care gives back to the community with philanthropic efforts that support children's causes and focus on the education of children with disabilities.  The project involves multiple module development and making changes to the existing modules of the system. An e-statement server was the major component, which is developed specifically to be used by the vendors to check the trading information on the client side using personal ID and help them to manage all transaction histories organized.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete project Development life cycle (SDLC) of the application including Analysis, Design, Development, Source code management, build management, and Testing.  • Worked on ASP.NET MVC 5 framework with Razor view engine to reduce the complexity full control over the behavior of the application.  • Developed and consumed RESTful Services using Web API to expose useful functionality to application users. We are using Swagger for write API specification.  • Developed Object Relational Model for providing data from Entity Framework Core using LINQ.  • Experience in designing and branding Master Pages utilizing Server Controls and CSS.  • Good knowledge in developing User Interfaces using ASP.NET, AJAX, XML, HTML5/DHTML, CSS, and Java Script.  • Updated the application with new features of Angular 6.  • Good amount of work done on Reactive forms or Web Forms in Angular 6 and their Validations.  • Create desktop application with Angular 6  • Decreased the page response time using the server-side asynchronous JavaScript, AJAX and JSON technique.  • Used Data Annotations to perform server-side validations and JavaScript to handle client- side validations.  • Used JIRA to perform bug tracking, issue tracking and check any changes in the project work.  • Used GitHub for Source Code Control, project related document sharing and team collaboration, automatic builds and continuous integration.  • Coded extensively in VB.NET targeting the Business requirements.  • An exclusive experience working with User Controls with VB.NET code-behind files, debugging and Quality Testing of the code.  • Designed and developed several Windows forms using VB.NET.  • Migrated VB 6.0 to VB.NET 14. As the existing modules functionality are developed using VB 6.0.  • Performed Test Driven Development (TDD) within unit testing using Auto Fixture of the application to make sure that code satisfy the functional specification.  • Followed Agile Scrum methodology in developing the application.  • Attending bi-weekly planning meetings to gather requirements from end users.  • Ability to work independently or collaboratively with the teams.  • Unit and Integration testing the solutions to meet the requirements.    Environment: .Net Frame Work 4.0/4.5, Visual Studio 2017, ASP.NET 4.5, C#.NET, ADO.Net, Angular JS, Bootstrap, XAML, XML, SOA, JQUERY, AJAX, LINQ, Jquery, Web API, Rest Web Service, JAVASCRIPT, SOAP, SQL Server 2017, SSIS, SSRS, HTML5, JavaScript, NUnit, IIS 10.0, Windows Server 2012, Crystal Reports 2008, TFS 2015,CSS3, MVC5, Web Services, Kendo UI, WCF, VSS, Entity Framework. Software developer GlobalMed - Scottsdale, AZ December 2016 to January 2018 CMBHS is intended to serve as a component, within in the vision for health information exchange and also to provide a single system for DSHS behavioral health constructors to provide and receive data about clients, who received or have received, DSHS sponsored behavioral health services. As a Programmer Analyst/ Developer-support I was involved in the Development of batch process to complete the authority function of their responsibility for the YES Waiver program and provide function for wavier services as these functions relate to CMBHS and also to develop a Test Data Tool Generator to convert Complete Batch Transactions data to XML and Fixed Width formats at a time using ASP.Net MVC4.Anticipated Outcome is to eliminate the dual data entry for the LMHA's that choose to batch Yes Wavier data to CMBHS instead of manually entering Yes Wavier data into CMBHS. Batch process development must maintain Data Collection, Program Oversight, and Financial Limits etc. for the programs Clinical Eligibility (CE), Individual Personal Care (IPC)/Service Authorization, and Service Notes.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for coding applications in various layers such as Data access and Business layer using C#, ASP.NET, ADO.NET.  • Responsible for creating the Entity-Relationship diagrams, Data Modeling, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams and Process Flow diagrams.  • Implemented Data access layer using Entity Framework to communicate with SQL Server 2016.  • Implemented Form based authentication in ASP.Net to authenticate users, worked on developing API for development using C++, C#, .net.  • Worked on website from start to finish giving it a fresh look using HTML5/CSS3/ JavaScript using leveraging the Bootstrap framework and SQL backend.  • Developed dynamic work flow process using ASP.NET 4.5, VB.NET and SQL Server 2016.  • Developed Webpages using ASP.Net, HTML, CSS, Client and server-side validations are done using C# and ASP.Net Validations.  • Worked on some of the new features of Angular 4 like new if else syntax, ng-templates, form validators.  • Involved in MVC architectural design pattern and used MVC in integration with JavaScript framework.  • Developed web applications using C#, ASP.NET (4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0), ADO.NET and AJAX Extensions under MVC architecture. Created Win Forms and Web Forms for developing the applications using win controls, web server controls and HTML  • Implemented MVC pattern in application development, Designed Web Forms, User Controls and AJAX Web forms using ASP.NET 4.5.  • Worked on TFS for version history and packing.  • Involved in database design, wrote stored procedures, User defined functions using T-SQL and SQL Server.  • Used Windows Azure to deploy the application on cloud and managing the session.  • Develop reports using complex formulas and to query the database to generate several types of reports using SSRS.  • Involving in manual testing using the Standards, guidelines and structured methodology in testing the application.  Environment: .Net Frame Work 4.0/4.5, Visual Studio 2015, ASP.NET 4.5, C#.NET, ADO.Net, XAML, Angular JS, XML, SOA, JQUERY, AJAX, LINQ, JAVASCRIPT, SOAP, SQL Server 2012, SSIS, SSRS, HTML5, JavaScript, NUnit, IIS 10.0, Windows Server 2003/2008, Crystal Reports 2008, TFS 2013, CSS3, MVC4, Web Services, WCF, VSS. Junior .Net Developer Natcopharma - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2014 to July 2015 Axis Bank is today one of the most competitive & profitable banking Franchise in India as can be clearly depicted by the analysis of its portfolio of banking services. The bank has launched several for various categories of consumers to enhance its deposit mix. This project deals with this aspect especially with the saving account features. Worked on Bank Application that is, a complete multi-country, multi-currency, multi-lingual n-tier e-Banking solution delivering broad retail and lending banking product functionality to financial organizations. It comprises of a complete set of modules for retail and wholesale banking operations. Itis a set of scalable, robust and functionally rich banking applications built using reusable software components and deployed on industry standard, internet-enabled server technologies.    Responsibilities:  • Gathering, Analysis and development of requirements provided by the stake holders.  • Designed WebPages in Visual Studio 2010 to accommodate easier way for reusable functionality.  • Developed interactive GUI screens using JavaScript, HTML, DOM, XHTML, JavaScript, jQuery AJAX, CSS.  • Developed Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular 2.  • sed built in directives for the two-way data bindings and used $scope, $resource extensively in AngularJS.  • Applied AngularJS client-side Validation by using HTML5 attribute and AngularJS Form state and input state.  • Used $http with Angular.JS interceptors to make sure the requests were valid and used ng-router to handle  • nested views and avoid page redirection.  • Implemented entire backend of the application in C#NET, using various object-oriented features like classes, interfaces, inheritance, polymorphism and Multi-threading.  • Created Data Base Models for the database using SQL server and upgraded it at the end.  • Identified project requirements, scope and team responsibilities. Modelled the same using UML notations.  • Integrated the services using WCF into my.NET application developed using ASP.NET  • Developed new web services which contains standard functions needed to be used in all applications to overcome the vulnerabilities.  • Created the UI using CSS, JavaScript for validations and C# Net.  • Developing complex functionalities like Child nodes failure information on mouse over of any failure status icons.    Environments: Visual Studio 2012, ASP.NET 4.0, JavaScript, IIS 7.0, SQL Server 2012. Education Bachelors in Electronics and Communications Engineering in JNTUH, India University of the Cumberlands Skills .net, C#, C++, Html, Javascript, MVC, ASP, Angular, WCF, WPF Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages C++, C#.Net(4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0) ,VB.NET(14.0/10.0/9.0/8.0), HTML, T-Sql, PL/SQL  Web Technologies  ASP.NET 4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0, ASP.NET MVC 5.0/4.0/3.0,Silverlight 4.0/3.0,ASP.Net Ajax 3.0/2.0, Javascript,Jquery, Angular JS, Bootstrap, VB.Net VBScript, Web Services, IIS.    Xml Technologies XAML, XML,XDOCUMENT,XSLT, XPATH, XSL, LINQ to XML  UI Technologies Winforms,WPF, Jquery UI, Kendo UI  IDE Tools Visual Studio2017/2013/2012/2010/2008/2005, Sql Server Management Studio,Expression Blend(4.0/3.0/2.0)  .Net Frameworks .Net Framework 4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0/1.x  Databases MS SQL SERVER 2008/2005/2000,MSAccess 2010/2007/2003  Reporting Tool Sql Server Reporting Services (SSRS 2008/2005), Crystal Reports (2010/9/8.5/8).  Modeling Tools UML,MS Visio 2010/2007  Version Control Tools Visual SourceSafe(2005), SubVersion, Team Foundation Server(2008)  Middleware WCF, ADO.NET 4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0,MSMQ, Web Services,Enterprise Library 5.0/4.0/3.1  Servers Windows Server 2008/2003/NT, Microsoft IIS(10.0/7.0/6.0/5.0/4.0)