Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Carbonite Inc • A Creative, dynamic, IT professional having good knowledge in enterprise Java technologies,  front-end web design and database development.  • Working on Development of an Open Source, Cloud-based technology platform with the help  of Angular JS and Spring framework  • A team player with excellent communication skills with the ability to work independently  under pressure, can lead motivate and influence others.  • Looking forward for a bug free and end to end tested career in software development so as to  use my learned skill and expertise for best results. Work Experience Software Engineer Carbonite Inc August 2017 to Present Project Experience Summary:  o Project Name: CVM Backup  o Description: CVM backup is web platform which provides backup and recovery of  Virtual machines hosted on an ESX or VCenter. Backup discovery is based on host/folder/cluster/tag level. It provided advance functionalities like VM/Disk  exclusion at the time of backup and scheduling the backup to autorun. It also generates  reports of the backup and recovery and mail it to respective client along with the display at the Web UI.    o Responsibilities:  1. Migration of the entire frontend code from Angular Js to Angular 2.  2. Enhancement of the backup discovery to consolidate Cluster/Resourcepool/Folder/  Tag level backup.  3. Development of directive to customize aciTree plugin.  4. Reskinning of UI design to better user experience.  5. UI automation test using protractor.  6. Ensuring high performance on mobile and desktop Application Developer iNautix Technologies, A BNY Mellon Company July 2015 to July 2017 Project Experience Summary:    • Project Name: NEXEN  • Description: NEXEN is BNY Mellon's next generation technology platform that  consolidates BNY Mellon's Services, third-party and client solutions to a single, intuitive and powerful platform. NEXEN delivers consistent client experience for BNY Mellon  technology, regardless of product, service or region, driven by its core components Digital  Pulse, API's, Gateway, AppStore and Data.    * Responsibilities:  o Working on Agile environment.  o Delivering a complete frontend application  o Ensuring high performance on mobile and desktop  o Creating reusable, tested modules, components with Angular Js.  o Writing test suites for end to end testing and running it using protractor.  o Hands on Expertise in writing queries.  o Creating personalized dashboard for tracking the service performance and user  interaction with the NEXEN platform.  Achievements    • Received the 'Star Performer' award for the 2nd Quarter of 2016 by iNautix-Management.  • Coursera certification in Full stack web development tool i.e. Html, Bootstrap and Css,  Angular Js.  • Received 'Drives and Delivers Excellence Award' from iNautix-Management for creating a  dashboard for the CEO which includes several critical metrics about the employee and service performance.  • Wrote a technical blog for BNY Mellon's "My Source Social" site on how to create and configure charts in the predefined dashboard.  • Played the role of build-master for a sprint in Agile SDLC.  • Received appreciation letter from 'KIIT University' for designing and developing several  websites for the college technical and cultural fests. Education Certificate in Computer Kalinga Institute 2015 D.A.V Public School 2009 Additional Information Technical Skill Set  • Languages: C, Java, Javascript  • Markup & Stylesheet: HTML 5 & CSS  • Framework: Angular Js, Angular 2, Jasmine  • Technologies and tools: npm, Bower, Grunt, Karma, Protractor, SQL developer, Db visualizer    • Methodologies: Agile, Scrum, Test Driven Development (TDD), Continuous Integration (CI)  • Database: Vertica, My SQL, Oracle    Strengths  • Both a good team player as well as team leader.  • Ability to work under pressure and motivate others.  • Goal oriented.    I hereby declare that the above information furnished is true to the best of my knowledge.    Place: Pune Kunal Karan    Date: