Teaching Assistant (TA) Teaching Assistant (TA) Actively seeking a full-time opportunity as a Software Engineer. Pullman, WA I recently graduated with a master’s in computer science degree from the University of Idaho. I’m excited to find a role where I can grow professionally and expand on my current skillset while also learning and contributing to a great organization that aligns with my values. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Teaching Assistant (TA) University of Idaho - Moscow, ID August 2017 to May 2019 Teaching Assistant (TA) for Programming Languages Course CS 210) and System Software (Course CS 270)  Lab Instructor for C++ Programming Language (Course CS 120)  Tutor for students in Computer Science Assistance Center Software developer Intern Reliance Infrastructure Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra February 2014 to June 2014 Software developer Intern for developing an online schedule of meetings and its tracking in Lotus Notes using JavaScript. Software Developer Intern Supraja Textiles - Mumbai, Maharashtra August 2011 to December 2011 Developed a project to store stock management information using  Visual Basic 6.0 platform for linking database in Microsoft Access.  Generated automatic invoices with all required details.    GRADUATE PROJECTS  Persistence of Vision Machine  • Developed functions for fixed-point operations and to efficiently  estimate sine or cosine value.  • Developed RTOS code to map an image onto the LED strip rotating  with the help of a motor.    Stepper Motor  • An RTOS code with tasks and queues was developed to take  commands from the user using push buttons and to do operations  on the stepper motor. Operations include driving the motor for some angle or some rotations in a certain direction.    Temperature-Humidity Sensor  • An RTOS code was developed which used a semaphore to share  resources among various tasks. Tasks were to capture temperature and humidity values from the HDC1080 sensor and print these values  on the serial monitor as and when required by the user.    Machine Learning  • Developed a code to compress and recover data based on the magnitude of eigenvalues using the principle of component  analysis.  • Developed a code to perform k-means analysis. It divides the data  into subgroups which have similar data points.  • Developed a code that builds a decision tree based on the ID3  algorithm.    PCAP Analyzer  • A python-based code was created to unpack ethernet, IPv4 and TCP  segments from a file captured using Wireshark.  Code also outputted the contains of the PCAP file in JSON format. Education Master's in Computer Science University of Idaho - Moscow, ID January 2017 to May 2019 Master's in Computer Applications University of Mumbai - Mumbai, Maharashtra September 2011 to July 2014 Bachelor's in Computer Applications S.N.D.T University - Mumbai, Maharashtra July 2008 to May 2011 Skills C++, Html, Javascript, Php, Python, Microsoft access, Oracle, Sql, Wireshark, Linux, Java, Lotus notes Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/seemakamod Additional Information SKILLS  Languages  • C • C++ • JAVA  • Lotus Notes • HTML • PHP  • JavaScript • Python    Technologies  • Oracle 9i • SQL • Wireshark  • PlatformIO • Linux  • Microsoft Access