Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer - Xylem • Over 4+ years of IT Experience in Designing, Development and Maintenance of Scalable, Distributed, ASP.NET/Cloud based Applications.  • Experience in Development of Web based applications and Windows applications on .NET Technologies (C#.Net, Azure Logic Apps, Web API, Azure Service Fabric, ASP.net MVC).  • Experience in database design and development using SQL Azure, Microsoft SQL Server  • Working Knowledge on Entity Frame Work  • Working Knowledge on LINQ  • Experience in Web API and OData based Restful APIs.  • Working Knowledge on SQL Server 2008/2016/2017, Oracle 11g  • Knowledge on ASP.NET MVC.  • Working Knowledge on third party tools like Boomi(EDI), WM4000  • Good interpersonal skills, commitment, result oriented, hard working with a quest and zeal to learn new technologies and undertake challenging tasks.  • Extensive experience with Scrum and Waterfall software development methodologies. Work Experience Developer Xylem March 2018 to Present Technologies Used: MS .NET Framework v4.6.1, C#.Net, Enterprise Integration with Azure Logic Apps, Azure Service Bus, Azure Blob Storage, ASP.NET WEB API, SQL Server 2017, Azure Functions, LINQ, Visual Studio.NET 2017/2015, WinSCP, Service Bus Explorer, Postman, Azure Portal  Description:  Xylem is a leading water technology company committed to "solving water" by creating innovative and smart technology solutions to meet the world's water, wastewater and energy needs. In a world of ever-growing challenges, Xylem delivers innovative water technology solutions throughout the cycle of water. Xylem Inc. has embarked onto the GBS program. As part of this program all the Xylem ERP systems need to interface with multiple systems. Multiple interfaces need to be developed to achieve this. Microsoft Azure platform and related services are opted technologies landscape.  Responsibilities:  • Developed Azure Logic Apps using Visual Studio which reads file from SFTP, Message Validation, Transformation and Sending the files to SFTP.  • Unit tested the developed logic apps to cover all the scenarios.  • Deployed developed Logic Apps to different environments from visual studio to Azure.  • Created the Parameter files in Visual Studio to be able to deploy to multiple environments.  • Schemas are developed based on specifications documents shared by client.  • XSLT is used to transform the files from one format to another format  • Liquid Templates are used for consolidation purposes.  • SFTP is used as a file transfer protocol to send files to different systems.  • Used HTTP connectors in logic apps to fetch data from external systems.  • Extensively used Azure Portal to debug logic apps and fix any errors.  • Worked on creating Azure Blob for storing unstructured data in the cloud as blobs.  • Developed logic apps which polls at certain intervals of time and reads the files from SFTP  • Service bus is used for storage which decouples message read and processing.  • Involved in developing custom code in Asp.net WEB API applications to be consumed from Azure logic apps.  • Published the developed REST APIs to Azure.  • Azure Functions are developed and utilized in logic apps connectors to do any lookups.  • Created Stored Procedures, Tables which are required to be called from Logic Apps.  • Participated in all requirements discussions.  • VSTS is used as a code repository.  • Fixed the Defects/Bugs in the developed logic apps.  • Created Technical /Functional Specification documents, Unit Test Logs required for the project.  • Guiding the other team members whenever they are stuck or not able to understand the requiremnts.  • Quickly Learned and Fixed defects in this project within short duration of time.  • Interacted with the customers effectively for any inputs/requirements.    HCL:  Project #2: Software Developer D+H September 2016 to February 2018 Technologies Used: MS .NET Framework v4.5.2, Visual Studio.NET 2015, C#, ASP.NET WEB API, Windows Services, SQL Server 2016, Service Fabric, Autofac, Entity Framework, ASP.NET MVC, LINQ  Description:  D+H is a global payments and lending technology provider serving financial institutions, specialty lenders, community banks, credit unions and corporations, including Canada's largest banks and support for Government of Canada in its technical sector. Government of Canada, generates paper based letter and outbound e-mail communications to Student Aid Alberta borrowers. Paper based communications typically contain loan specific and personal information whereby the outbound e-mail communications that are generated which don't contain loan or borrower specific details. It has expressed interest in modernizing and digitizing the methods in which it communicates with its student loan.  Responsibilities:  • Developed service fabric based micro services.  • Developed stateful services, stateless WEB API services on service fabric.  • Involved in developing Actor service which is used for computing the independent unit of work in this project.  • Entity framework used for data operations which implements repository design pattern.  • Hosted the Application in Microsoft Azure Cluster.  • Developed windows service for monitoring the files in folders using Autofac.  • Involved in developing Asp.net MVC web applications which consumed web api services.  • Participated in technical grooming and product grooming.  • VSTS is used as a code repository.  • Agile methodology was followed in the project to complete the project within deadlines  • Provided demo to the client for the user stories developed in each sprint.  • Fixed the Defects/Bugs in the developed components.  • Quickly Learned and Fixed defects on Token based Authentication (JWT, ASP.NET Identity) in this project.  • Interacted with the customers effectively for any inputs/requirements.    Project #3:  HCL: Junior Developer Maintenance UTi Worldwide Inc April 2015 to August 2016 Tools Used: Visual Studio 2015, C#, SQL Server, Boomi, WM4000    Description:  UTI is one of the largest non-asset-based Logistics Company with more than 40000 employees worldwide. UTi develops and implements client-centric, global solutions for international companies with unique supply chain requirements. By integrating IT platforms and developing an UTi-client team approach to the planning and implementation process, our supply chain solutions maximize efficiencies and cost-effectiveness. UTi's global footprint of 310 offices and 230 logistics centre's in 59 countries enables us to develop and implement client-centric, global solution.    Responsibilities  • Responsible for developing, programming code for console applications.  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Development and Testing.  • Client supporting and estimating change requests and doing impact analysis before and after code changes  • Debugging the source code and providing fixes at code level for repeated incidents.  • Making the new release of application available post build process for QA (Quality Assurance) before deploying it into Production environment.  • Also responsible for key deliverables to client in agreed timelines  • Involved in various phases like Collecting requirements, Development, UAT  • Performance Testing and coordinating and managing the team members.    Declaration:  I hereby declared that above provided information is correct up to my knowledge. Education B-Tech PVP Siddhartha Institute of Technology - Vijayawada, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN 2014 Narayana Junior College - Vijayawada, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN 2010 S.S.C Sri Siddhartha High School 2008 Additional Information Technical Skills:    • Languages: C#.Net  • Cloud Technologies: Microsoft Azure (Azure Logic Apps, Azure Service Fabric, Azure Service Bus, Azure Blob Storage, Azure Functions)  • .Net Technologies: ASP.NET WEB API, ASP.NET MVC  • Web Technologies: HTML, XML  • RDBMS: SQL Server 2008, SQL Server 2017, Oracle  • Platforms: Windows2007/2008/XP  • Tools: Visual Studio 2017, Visual Studio 2015, SQL Server Management Studio, Winscp, Service Bus Explorer, Postman, Toad for Oracle, Boomi, WM4000, Oracle SQL Developer, VSTS for Code Repository