Web Developer (Part-time) Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> (Part-time) Web Developer (Part-time) - University of Texas at Arlington Arlington, TX Software Developer • Full-Stack Developer • Web Developer   * Results-driven creative problem solver with 4+ years of experience in developing product using my software/web application development skills.  * Cross-functional team player software engineer with a can-do attitude that can help the team to achieve concrete goals in a strict deadline by contributing from the design to the rollout stage.  * Graduate student at The University of Texas at Arlington with emphasis in fields of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science. Work Experience Web Developer (Part-time) University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX October 2017 to Present Brought in as a part-time web developer by the college of science to redesign and develop a decade old website. Later worked on other 5 department website which comes under college of science.  • Responsible for spearheading and developing 6 responsive websites built using Cascade Server CMS which is used by 4000+ students as per there needs.  • Designed and maintain library management using php and MySQL for Science Education & Career Centre (SECC) which was earlier done using Microsoft Excel. Software Developer India Infoline Finance Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra August 2016 to August 2017 Recruited for a new product known as 5paisa.com which was on a similar concept as my previous organization. Responsible for working on few projects single handedly while simultaneously working on other projects with teams from various locations.  • Collaborated with multiple teams to build full stack applications using Asp .Net, C# which is used by 175000+ clients for investment management.  • Single handedly built Customer Relationship Management system and Customer Support System using Zoho cloud suite for the first time in the company history. Efforts streamlined sales, operations and support while enhancing accuracy. Web Developer Advisesure.com - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2015 to August 2016 Aggressively recruited as a front-end developer role and then quickly promoted to web developer role by see my self-learning attitude. Being a startup with a small team 4 people, it really driven me to take up challenging task and deliver it in concrete time.  • Using Agile Scrum methodology developed an Investment Portfolio Management System and Goal Planning System on .Net MVC, which was the core application of the organization.  • Implemented various applications like scheduled emailing, web page to pdf generator, etc. which eliminated the cost incurred for using such services from 3rd party organizations. Co-founder, Web Developer Asphalo Studios - Mumbai, Maharashtra September 2014 to June 2016 The urge to implement what I was learning in college enabled me to take this step to build something of my own. It was the first time ever that I had to take up responsibilities like bringing in new projects, interacting and understanding client's requirements, procuring talent from colleges, distributing and managing projects.  • Developed and deployed a hybrid quiz app, Re-Solve at the Google Play Store with more than 1000 downloads.  • Designed a system for managing operations and live traffic in a college fest used during the annual technical festival of Don Bosco Institute of Technology which had a footfall of 400+ students. Education Master's in Computer Science The University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX August 2017 to May 2019 Bachelor's in Computer Engineering Don Bosco Institute of Technology - Mumbai, Maharashtra August 2011 to June 2015 Skills C# (2 years), HTML 5 (4 years), CSS3 (4 years), Javascript (3 years), Java (1 year), Python (Less than 1 year), Web Development (4 years), Google Analytics (Less than 1 year), Wordpress (1 year), C++ (Less than 1 year), PHP (1 year), Asp.Net (2 years), JQuery (3 years), SQL (2 years), MySQL (2 years), Joomla (2 years), CRM (1 year), Photoshop (3 years), Indesign (2 years), CSS, ASP, Git Links http://linkedin.com/in/yogesh-maurya http://github.com/yogesh94maurya Certifications/Licenses Programming Foundations: Object-Oriented Design March 2019 to Present http://www.linkedin.com/learning/programming-foundations-object-oriented-design-3 Agile Foundations February 2019 to Present http://www.linkedin.com/learning/agile-foundations Learning Python February 2019 to Present http://www.linkedin.com/learning/learning-python-2 Web Development Foundations: Full-Stack vs Front-End September 2017 to Present http://www.lynda.com/Web-Development-tutorials/Becoming-Web- Developer-Full-Stack-vs-Front-End/483022-2.html Learn to Create Responsive Layouts in 30 Minutes July 2017 to Present Credential ID: UC-00OOH0U9    https://www.udemy.com/certificate/UC-00OOH0U9/