Cloud Software Engineer Cloud <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Cloud Software Engineer - Schlumberger Houston, TX Work Experience Cloud Software Engineer Schlumberger - Houston, TX February 2019 to Present Drilling Simulation and Analysis Website  • Developed a website that can visualize geographical statistics, perform drilling simulation based on user-defined material/process  setting and help petroleum engineer cooperate online & design better drilling plan to increase oil production.  • Generated world stress map, basin map in UI using Angular. Visualized these geographical data to help engineer with drilling analysis.  • Enabled user to duplicate process design in UI and made it convenient to add similar process to simulation. Enhanced user experience.  • Implemented algorithm in backend to filter and clean up datastore. Improved loading speed in backend and saved datastore cost.  • Designed and implemented datastore backup/restore solution with GCP cloud function, Node.js, cloud scheduler and nearline storage.  Provided automatic backup and automated test. Enhanced data security and made application more robust.  • Created release pipeline in Azure to deploy backup program to GCP automatically. Improved development efficiency by 10%. Full Stack Web Developer Intern IT Department of Rice University - Houston, TX May 2018 to August 2018 CRUD Website Source Code Generator  • Built a code generator acting similar to a compiler. It parses an XML file, which is produced by Jeddict using visualizing tool and ER  Diagram, then generates all source code a single page CRUD website needed in less than 5 seconds to boost up web development.  • Designed the generated website with frontend built with Oracle JET and backend built with Spring Boot, Gradle and H2.  • Added content recommendation and fuzz search in console by adopting Yeoman. Improved user experience.  • Deployed it to Github as an npm module with gulp. Simplified installation complexity with just one 'npm install' command. Research Assistant & Software Developer South China University of Technology - CN May 2015 to October 2016 Quadcopter Navigation System  • Navigated quadcopter using Convolutional Neural Network and Depth Map, which is obtained by PTAM and DTAM algorithm based  on monocular vision. A paper was published based on this.  • Implemented navigation algorithm with C++ & Python and experimented on Ubuntu14.04.  • Adopted OpenCV to process images and produce training set. Used CUDA and Caffe to train Convolutional Neural Network.  • Led a team of five. Organized regular meeting, assigned tasks and reported progress to advisor. Education Master of Computer Science in Computer Science Rice University - Houston, TX August 2017 to December 2018 B.Eng. in Computer Science in Computer Science South China University of Technology - Guangzhou, CN September 2013 to July 2017 Skills C#, C++, Docker, Git, Gradle, Hadoop, Html, Javascript, Node.js, Typescript, Php, Python, Opencv, Tensorflow, Svn, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Mysql, Oracle, Azure, AWS, Linux, Powershell, Devops Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/weiheng-qiu Additional Information SKILLS  • Frontend Framework: Angular, Oracle JET, Knockout.js.  • Backend Framework: Node.js, Express, Spring Boot, Hibernate.  • Program Language: Java, JavaScript, TypeScript, HTML, CSS, Python, C++, SQL, MATLAB, OpenCV, C#, PHP.  • Tool & Other Framework: Git, SVN, Docker, GCP, Azure, AWS, Gradle, MySQL, Hadoop, Spark, TensorFlow, Caffe.