Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Project Management Boston, MA Experience in IT industry as a Software Developer, as well as 3 years of experience as a Mathematics instructor/mentor. Experience in software technologies of JavaScript, C#, CSS, MS SQL, all stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), quality management system and project life cycle processes. Excellent communication skills owing to a direct dealing with clients, and a team player. Actively looking to obtain a position as Project Manager/ Assistant Project Manager/ Business Analyst/ Product Manager/ Scrum Master, where I can utilize my management and analytical skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Yatra.com November 2013 to December 2017 • Designed and delivered projects in ASP.Net, JSP.Net as well as JavaScript frameworks, as well as on website design using Adobe Dreamweaver software, among other editing softwares like Illustrator and Inkscape.  • Lead a team of developers in application delivery, website development for better customer support as well as client services, developing through collaboration and mutual support within the team through adoption and implementation of Waterfall methodology for the development cycle.  • Participated in, and facilitated (JAD) Joint Application Development sessions to identify business rules and requirements and then documented them.  • Worked with UI analysts to develop wireframes that supports the new functionalities of the system, with database management for the company using SQL, writing queries to have data insights to analyze issues, communicate with technical developers and to drive business strategy.  • Developed dashboards and stories by using tableau to make better decision for business growth.  • Documented existing application features and new enhancement features to be supported in the future releases.  • Participated in weekly meetings with the management to inform stakeholders of the overall project progress.  • Delivered proprietary software for the organization as well as communicated directly with clients. Education Masters of Science in AGILE methodology of product delivery as well as Business Northeastern University - Boston, MA September 2018 to September 2020 Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University - Delhi, Delhi August 2009 to August 2013 Skills C#, C++, Javascript, Ms project, Visio, Asp, Css, Asp.net, Sharepoint, Informatica, Team foundation server, Tableau, Database, Dbms, Access 2003, Ms access, Ms access 2003, Ms sql server, Sql server, Sql, Agile Scrum, Jira, Scrum Master, PM, Scrum, Microsoft Project, Excel, Smartsheet, Marketing, Project Management