Software engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> engineer Software engineer - TechAspect solutions, Hyderabad ? 2 years' experience in software development in the areas of HYBRIS  eCommerce based application development, Big Commerce and Java/J2EE.  ? Worked on multiple implementations of Hybris based B2B and B2C eCommerce  Applications.  ? Expertise in Hybris CMS, e-commerce suite.  ? Integration with AEM 6.3  ? Integration with bright cove, Facebook and Gmail.  ? Expert in migration  ? Worked on customizing many OOTB implementations (WCMS, HMC, Cockpits, datahub  Impex, Import/Export Service, Cronjobs, Catalogs, business process, Categories,  Products, Solr, Kafka microservice).  ? Certified Big Commerce developer and Elastic Path developer.  ? Experience with Core JAVA/J2EE, spring framework (IOC, AOP), Java design patterns,  Implemented MVC patterns in web architecture.  ? Expert in using Project management tools like JIRA, Confluence and Build Tools like  Maven, ANT and Versioning tools like GIT  ? Worked Extensive on Development Methodologies like Agile and Waterfall.  ? Committed to meet the project timelines.  ? Involved in design approach  ? Able to work with team and can also work as an individual. Work Experience Software engineer TechAspect solutions, Hyderabad August 2018 to Present Bose Corporation is a privately held American corporation, based in Framingham, Massachusetts, that designs, develops and sells audio equipment. Founded in 1964 by Amar Bose, the company sells its products throughout the world.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the technical discussions with tech arch with onshore and client to gather  Requirements.  ? Checkout Process for replacing the products.  ? Implemented business process for sending order details to SAP via Kafka Microservice.  ? Developed the webservices for product data, cart creation, update cart, process order  ? Implemented the microservices for warranty status of the products (haystack). Associate Software Engineer TechAspect solutions, Hyderabad - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN November 2016 to Present Hybris Developer TechAspect solutions, Hyderabad May 2018 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Integration Social Media Login (Google and Facebook)  ? Integration with Bright Cove Media  ? Integration with AEM 6.3    Bose Associate software engineer TechAspect solutions, Hyderabad - Framingham, MA April 2018 to May 2018 that designs, develops and sells audio equipment. Founded in 1964 by Amar Bose, the company sells its products throughout the world.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed the microservices using Spring boot.  ? Involved in the technical discussions with tech arch with onshore and client to gather  Requirements.    Katerra B2B Hybris Developer TechAspect solutions, Hyderabad June 2017 to March 2018 B2B is an ecommerce application where registered user can place order online. The project aims to sell katerra owned and GE products online. Katerra is a Construction and Architecture firm, which works on approaches to remove unnecessary time and costs from building development, design, and construction.    Responsibilities:  • Develop the web application using SAP-Hybris and Spring MVC frameworks  • Created the Page Templates and Email templates depending on client requirements  • Created custom value providers and populators to support new product attributes in solr.  • Resolving bugs raised by testers.  • Some of the implementations include:  * Enhancing the OOTB Wishlist functionality  * Cronjobs  * Customization of Product cockpit  * Custom solr Identity providers and resolvers  * Customizing account management, SOLR etc.    CUSTOM IMPLEMENTATIONS:  • SSO integration with one login.  • Bundles Configuration  • Assisted Service Module  • Product and media load from Arena (Source system) Additional Information Technologies: Hybris 5.x, 6.x, Java, J2EE, JSP, Spring, XML, Elasticpath, Cortex  Scripting Languages: JavaScript, HTML, JQuery  Databases: Oracle, DB2, MySQL  Debugging Tools: Eclipse debugger  IDE: Eclipse, Intellij, Notepad++.  Application Server: Tomcat  Versioning Tool: Tortoise GIT    Operating Systems: Windows10, Windows8, Windows7, linux