Java Programmer Java Programmer Research Programmer - Sysco Corporation, University of Houston Houston, TX • IT professional having experience in developing Enterprise & Web applications.  • Hands on experience in J2EE technologies such as Spring Core, Spring Boot, Spring JPA Hibernate ORM, Restful.  • Involved in developing UI using JSP, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, VBScript, bootstrap.  • Experience in working with AWS services (EC2, S3, SES, VPC, DNS).  • Familiarity with Docker and Docker related technologies: Docker Swarm, Docker Compose.  • Exceptional skills in Agile development and Test Driven Development (TDD). Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Programmer Sysco Corporation, University of Houston - Houston, TX April 2018 to Present Project: Car Tracking System.  Car Tracking System is a web-based application used by transportation car business users to track and manage cars such as tracking current geo-location, and managing alerts etc.  • Develop application on Spring framework by utilizing its features like Spring Dependency  injection, Spring Web Flow with Spring MVC and Spring BOOT in IntelliJ IDEA.  • Utilize Hibernate annotations concept to retrieve data from back end MySQL Server and integrate with Spring BOOT.  • Worked with Java 8 Lambdas, Streams API and parallel streams API for enabling parallel processing of collections in distributed environment.  • Implemented DAO layers using JPA standards and Hibernate API interfaces, developed  POJO, and implemented Hibernate 5.x and integration with Spring Framework.  • Developed Restful Web services for transmission of data in JSON format.  • Used Hibernate EhCache for second level caching which resulted in enhanced  performance of the application.  • Created AWS EC2 instances and installed required configurations and applications on it and created AWS S3 buckets for storing object level data into it.  • Worked with Nginx Application server that handles various requests from Client.  • Worked on Swagger API and auto-generated documentation for all REST calls.  • Used Maven for application build and Jenkins for Continuous Integration and deployment.  • Followed GIT for version control of code for incremental development and to maintain the code history.  • Implemented Mockito to develop Integration and Unit test cases for java bean  components.  • Worked on Jenkins to implement the CI/CD process. Software Developer University of Houston - Houston, TX August 2017 to March 2018 Skills Used: Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Hibernate, JavaScript, SQL, Jenkins, Maven.  • Designed and Developed End to End customer self service module using annotation based Spring MVC, Spring Boot, and Hibernate.  • Implemented Bean classes and configured in spring configuration file for Dependency Injection, Developed Controller Classes using Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring Boot, Spring Batch modules, handled security using Spring Security.  • Worked on developing Restful endpoints to cache application specific data in in-memory data clusters like REDIS and exposed them with Restful endpoints.  • Used SQL statements and procedures to fetch the data from the database. Created new views, added new columns to the existing view in the database using SQL.  • Involved in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the project in agile methodology.  • Actively used the defect tracking tool JIRA to create and track the defects during QA phase of the project.  • Deployed applications into Continuous integration environments like Jenkins to integrate and deploy code on CI environments for development testing.  • Implemented complete Maven build life cycle to achieve organized application structure and conflict free dependencies in pom.xml file. Associate Software Engineer CGI Group Inc - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2017 to August 2017 Skills used: Java, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, log4j, JMS, JavaScript.  • Implemented the project mainly using the Spring MVC architecture and Spring Bean  Factory using IOC.  • Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application developed using AGILE methodology.  • Implemented caching techniques, wrote POJO classes for storing data and DAO's to retrieve the data and did other database configurations using Hibernate.  • Utilized object-oriented programming and Java to construct an interactive web response system for a multinational Insurance company.  • Designed and developed Customer registration and login screens using JSP, HTML/DHTML and JavaScript.  • Used log4j for tracking errors and debugging the code.  • Developed Messaging frame work for Asynchronous service using JMS.  • Developed various activities like transaction history, search products that enable users to understand the system efficiently.  • Involved in unit testing and system testing and also responsible for preparing test scripts for the system testing. Education Master of Science in Computer Science University of Houston - Houston, TX May 2019 Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and communication engineering GITAM University - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2017 Skills C++, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Jenkins, Python, Flask, Subversion, Svn, Swift, Vbscript, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Database, Mysql, Oracle, Css, nginx Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/akhil-talari Additional Information Skills  Languages C, C++, JAVA JDK1.6/1.7/1.8, Python, R, Swift  Micro services Spring Boot, Spring REST, REST API's  Frameworks/Tools Spring 2.x/3.x/4.x, Hibernate 2.x/3.x/4.x/5.x, Log4j, Maven, JUnit  Web technologies HTML/CSS, JavaScript, VBScript, bootstrap, Flask  Database MySQL, Oracle  AWS AWS (EC2, S3, SDK, IAM, VPC, RDS, EBS, Route53, LAMBDA )  Web/Application servers Apache Tomcat, Nginx  Database Version control &  CI/CD  Git, Tortoise SVN, Apache Subversion, Jenkins, Dockers