QA Engineer I QA Engineer I QA Engineer I Murrieta, CA David is highly motivated and loves to work in the Software industry. He started to follow this path when working as an Electrician for 6 years. David loves all aspects from QA Engineering to Software Development and is not partial to any Operating System but only desires to learn and be a great asset to a great team. David has experience with Windows as well as Linux/Unix command line and their Operating System. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience QA Engineer I A.P. Unix Software - San Diego, CA April 2014 to June 2015 CA  Duties included but not limited to:  • MySQL Workbench, SQL basics, and some Linux/Unix command line with RCS.  • Testing / debugging hardware and software manually.  • Work with various teams for developmental tasks before deadlines.  • Create documentation for in-house software tool kit.  • Entry Level experience with Productivity Software such as Excel, Outlook, Word, Google Drive, Google Sheets.  • VIM Text Editor.  • Bug, Version, and Test Run tracking using Bugzilla. Software Developer PlanetJ Corp - San Diego, CA February 2013 to March 2014 Duties included but not limited to:  • Creating schema's, tables, columns in database (MySQL Workbench), and SQL code.  • Testing and debugging mobile device manually with new .apk files for each release monthly.  • Work with various teams for developmental tasks for Device Tracking Database.  • Create How-To documentation and video tutorials on different features being released in the software. Education B.S. Coleman University - San Diego, CA October 2014 A.S. in Computer Information Sciences, A.S Coleman University - San Marcos, CA August 2013 Certificate in Wireman Electrician San Diego City College - San Diego, CA May 2009 Skills Application a Development, QA Engineering with manual testing, various software programs such as Microsoft Office, Windows OS, Linux/UNIX OS, technical support, customer service Additional Information Technical Skills:  Entry level in the following:  • ASP.NET • Documentation • Linux/ Unix • RCS  • C# • HTML5 • Manual Software Testing • SQL  • C++ • Java • MySQL • SQL Server  • CSS3 • JavaScript • Quality Assurance • TSQL    Soft Skills:  • Attention to detail • Leadership abilities • Work in diverse team settings  • Autonomic • Management skills • Work in fast pace environment  • Customer Service • Multi-task • Work on documentation  • Great work ethics • Punctual