Student Software Developer Student <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Student Software Developer - Zip Code Wilmington Avondale, PA Highly motivated problem solver with 7 years of experience in business management and customer service positions. Exceptional communicator with strong critical thinking ability who is passionate about combining finance skills with development skills to define new strategies and deliver operational impact. Work Experience Student Software Developer Zip Code Wilmington - Wilmington, DE May 2019 to Present ? Completing over 1000 hours of software development projects and training in an immersive program.  ? Selected from over 300 applicants for admission in a class of 29 students.  ? Working 80-100 hours per week while gaining experience in Java, object-oriented programming, pair coding, Agile, and Scrum methodologies, developing, testing and debugging code, designing interfaces, and administering systems and  networks.    Development Projects:  Blog App - Collaborated with a team of four to develop a blog website. Led the development of new user registration and user  login using Angular for the frontend, Java Spring Boot for the mid level and MySQL for the backend.    Casino App - Collaborated with a team of six to develop a suite of five casino games using Java. Led development of BlackJack as well as Spanish21.    Blockchain Project - Java implementation of a cryptocurrency. An experimental program that implements wallets, blocks  containing transactions and a mining program to create a blockchain ledger. General Manager Christiana Auction Gallery - Newark, DE July 2015 to November 2018 Designed and implemented a complete rebranding strategy that included developing new marketing material as well as a new website design increasing our marketing outreach by more than 300% in six months.  ? Created and implemented workflow processes that helped increase employee efficiency which led to more than twice the rate of inventory turnover resulting in over a 100% increase in sales revenue.  ? Accurately prepared internal and external correspondence, reports, spreadsheets, and memos.  ? Anticipated executive needs and developed effective contingency plans.  ? Actively involved with employee hiring, onboarding and performance management processes. Cook Liberty Craft House, State College, PA March 2015 to May 2015 Maintained high-quality standards while cooking in a fast-paced, high-volume environment.  ? Maximized efficiency, quality, and ticket times through excellent communication with coworkers.  ? Ensured appropriate sanitation and food safety procedures were being followed.  ? Prepared all food and equipment for service. Education Bachelor of Science in Hospitality Management in Hospitality Management Pennsylvania State University, State College May 2015 Skills Git, HTML, JAVA, SPRING BOOT, MYSQL, SQL, FRAMEWORKS, Agile Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/andrewdimaio http://www.github.com/andrewdimaio Additional Information RELEVANT SKILLS  Languages: Java, SQL, HTML  Frameworks: Spring Boot, Angular  Development Tools: MySQL, Git, Agile, React  ? Complete knowledge of computer hardware technology and repair  ? Highly skilled at troubleshooting and repairing computers, cell phones, networks, and other devices