Software Development Engineer Intern <span class="hl">Software</span> Development Engineer Intern Software Engineering Intern - Grokstream LLC Woodland Hills, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Development Engineer Intern Amazon.com - Seattle, WA June 2019 to Present Designed and implemented serverless architecture using AWS Lambda, StepFunction, API Gateway, Dynamo DB, and SQS with runtime in Node.js to create reviews for CS agents based on cases autonomously. Created a frontend widget using React/Redux to assist managers in creating reviews.  Software Engineering Intern Grokstream LLC July 2018 to Present Designed a RESTful API in Python and Flask that gathers statistics about the Grok Machine’s containers using the Docker API.  Designed a web interface in Vue.js, HTML, CSS, and Javascript that makes AJAX requests to get processed statistics from Grok’s API.  Added to the Grok API by writing queries to Elasticsearch to gather stored logs and statistics. Web Developer Engineering Conference December 2017 to Present Designed a web interface in Vue.js for conference attendees to submit applications.  Setup a backend using Firebase to store conference attendee information.  Served application using nginx. Certified Learning Assistant UCI - Irvine, CA January 2017 to June 2019 Collaborated with professors and students during lab sections to facilitate active learning in the undergraduate courses Physics 7LC (classical physics lab), Math 1B (precalculus), and Math 2B (calculus) at UCI.  Software Engineering Intern Wing Technologies February 2018 to June 2018 Designed a heatmap in python to display customers and fulfillers in real time.  Researched unsupervised learning algorithms to suggest ads for consumers. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science & Engineering UCI - Irvine, CA September 2016 to Present Skills Vue.js (1 year), Python (2 years), Java (3 years), HTML (3 years), CSS (3 years), Javascript (3 years), Git (1 year), Bash (1 year), REST (1 year), Linux (1 year)