Job Seeker • I am a Senior Software Engineer at MakeMyTrip, Gurgaon looking for a job that will  utilize well developed project management and IT skills and provide exposure to  challenges.  • I have good interpersonal skills. I am a team player who desires to work closely with  teammates, QA and product team.  • I am adaptable and quick to learn new skills. I can work under pressure and adhere  to strict deadlines.  • I have good communication skills and can develop healthy working relationships. Work Experience Elastic Search for MakeMyTrip January 2019 to Present Product Details: Built a search engine for search hotels using Elastic Search for MakeMyTrip.  For this, I built an Entity Mapper to extract the user's intent of search. The search engine is  currently live and can be used to search hotels in MMT.  Requirements: Java, Light4j, Spring, Elastic Search, Python, Spacy  Software and tools used: Eclipse, Kibana, PyCharm Senior Software Engineer MakeMyTrip March 2018 to Present Gurgaon. UGC - User Generated Content March 2018 to December 2018 Product Details: UGC is system that collects reviews from users post checkout or before checkins and generates insights from their reviews. I had to a rule engine to generate  personalised questions for each user depending on their behaviour and their bookings. The  reviews collected are moderated and tagged.  Requirements: Java, SpringBoot, MongoDB, Python, Elastic Search, Spacy, Word2Vec  Software and tools used: Eclipse, Kibana, PyCharm Samsung DEX Developer Samsung Research Institute February 2017 to February 2018 Product Details: Samsung DEX provides desktop experience for phone user. I needed to understand the technical and business perspective of Samsung DEX and understand the  complexity and collaborate with third party developers and teach them about DEX. Software Engineer Samsung Research Institute - Noida, UTTAR PRADESH, IN July 2016 to February 2018 Noida.    Technical Skills  • Programming Languages: JAVA, Python, C, C++  • Web Development Languages:  o Browser Side: React JS, HTML, CSS3, JavaScript  o Server Side: JSP, Servlet, REST APIs (Jersey)  • Frameworks: Spring boot, Light4j, Falcon  • Mobile Application Development: Android  • Databases: MongoDb, Elastic Search, SQL, Hibernate  • Operating Systems: Linux, Windows 10  • Applications: PyCharm, Eclipse, Android Studio  Projects Security Solution for SRI Noida November 2016 to March 2017 Project Details: Developed an app to disable the camera of mobile phones of employees after entering the office premises and enable it back after the exit.  Requirements: Android, Knox SDK, REST APIs, Push Servers  Software and tools used: Android Studio, Eclipse, Tomcat, ActiveMQ.    Adaptive E-learning system Guide HOD, CSE August 2015 to March 2016 Prof. M.T.U. Haider (HOD, CSE)  Project details: Developed an interactive website for e-learning system. The website  dynamically provides materials such as tutorials, tests and quizzes in response to student's  performance and his learning styles,  Requirements: Knowledge of Ontology, JSP, Servlet, Bootstrap  Software and tools used: Eclipse IDE, Protege, Jena API Education B.Tech Pursued B.Tech 2012 to 2016