Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Engineer and Network Systems Administrator Chicago, IL With experience in multiple languages and subjects, I am seeking a mid-level position in Software Engineering or Software Development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Impact Networking, LLC - Chicago, IL February 2019 to Present • Certified in Kofax Total Agility, Kofax Kapow, Kofax Transformation Designer, Kofax IP Agility, and Kofax Insight   • Developed processes and projects in Kofax Total Agility   • Created custom executables and scripts in C#, JavaScript, .NET, and SQL  •  Created custom applications with heavy emphasis on C#, .NET, and SQL  • Worked in an agile SCRUM environment, with weekly sprints.  • Created Robotic Process Automation application with Kofax Kapow   • Designed HTML and CSS3 forms using Kofax Total Agility 7.5   • Worked closely with clients, with emphasis on communication and deadlines. Software Developer Internship Pronto Progress - Chicago, IL July 2018 to January 2019 Work on various projects in C#/.Net, SQL, Java, and Epicor.  Tested original products for clients to insure satisfaction.  Created original solutions to complex problems for clients. Home Theater Sales Associate Best Buy - Chicago, IL August 2014 to July 2018 Sold Computers, Tablets, and Cameras (Windows and Mac) and accessories.  Trained the associates in the gaming department, eventually becoming lead salesman of said  department.  Focused on customer satisfaction and communication.  Changed approaches on selling gaming products. Education M.S in Software Engineering Loyola University Chicago - Chicago, IL May 2020 B.S in Software Engineering Loyola University Chicago May 2018 A.S in Network Systems Administration DeVry University Advantage Academy June 2015 Skills MAC (4 years), ASP (2 years), ASP.NET (2 years), C# (4 years), C++ (5 years), Java (4 years), JQuery (3 years), HTML (5 years), CSS3 (4 years), Python (1 year), Windows (10+ years), Hardware (10+ years), Mobile Development (2 years), GUI Development (3 years), QT (4 years), SQL (4 years), Javascript (2 years), C (2 years), HTML 5 (5 years), Git (4 years), Android (4 years), MYSQL (2 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jarod-navarro-2ba27898/ Additional Information Related courses/Projects  Object oriented programming, Intermediate Object-Oriented programming, Advanced Object-  Oriented programming through Frameworks and Patterns, Discrete Structures,  Telecommunications, Software Engineering, Database Administrations, HCI.    Created database applications, games, simulations, management systems, and more using multiple  frameworks and languages, with little to no prior knowledge in the beginning of the course.