Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Bank of the West Apt, AR • 4+ years of experience in developing web-based enterprise level applications using Java and J2EE related technologies.  • Knowledge and experience of complete SDLC in project development and maintenance.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Programming concepts.  • Good Experience in implementing Java technologies for application development in various layers of projects i.e. Requirement gathering, Analysis, Design, Implementation.  • Experience in developing UI web modules using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScrip.t  • Experience in Spring-JDBC, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, (Restful web services), SOAP web services,  • Practical experience in using IDE tools such as IntelliJ and Eclipse, servers like WebSphere, WebLogic and Tomcat.  • Expertise in using XML related technologies such as XML, DTD, XSD, XPATH, XSLT, DOM, SAX, JAXP, JSON and JAXB.  • Strong knowledge and understanding of data structures, collections, Algorithms, Multi-threading and object oriented design  • Expertise in J2EE Technology-Spring, JPA, Hibernate, Servlets, JSP, EJB, JDBC, JSF.  • Expertise in developing web services using WSDL, RESTFUL and SOAP.  • Extensive Experience in retrieving and manipulating data from backend using Database SQL queries, PL/SQL- Stored Procedures, Functions, Sequences, Triggers, Views and Packages.  • Experience in using ANT and Maven for building and deploying the projects in servers and also using Junit and log4j for debugging.  • Experience in implementing DAO layer using ORM tools like Hibernates and building data layer using Spring ORM.  • Responsible for translation of end user requirement to functional specifications and develop use case documentation  • Hands on experience with Core Java with Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling, File handling, IO, Generics and Java collections.  • Proficient in Java Multi-Threading, Thread lifecycle methods and multiple requests handling using synchronization.  • Experienced with Docker container service.  • Strong experience working with version control software like TFS, CVS, Apache Subversion, GIT and build tools ANT, Maven, Gradle and Jenkin  • Dynamic integration in a web application using Spring Boot, Hibernate and for a security purpose used Spring Security.  • Excellent communication, interpersonal skills and self-motivated to implement next-generation paradigms. Work Experience Software Engineer Bank of the West - Tempe, AZ September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in completed Software Development Life Cycle of design (SDLC), development, testing and deployment of application.  • Developed various APIs to be consumed by other application services by using RESTful/SOAP web services and Used Junit framework for unit testing applications.  • Involved in the development of project back-end logic layer by using most of the core java features such as Collection Framework, Interfaces, Multi-Threading, Exception handling programming.  • Developing applications using the latest Java/ J2EE technologies and working with the latest features of Java 8 and Java 7.  • Implemented the project using SAX, DOM and JAXB to retrieve the data from the xml documents.  • Implemented the project using Web Services, WSDL and SOAP to communicate with other systems by using apache CXF.  • XML parser APIs such as JAXP (SAX) along with JAXB is effectively used in the web service's data marshaling process.  • Performed building and deployment of WAR, JAR files on test, stage, and production systems in Tomcat application server.  • Closely worked and supported the creation of database schema objects (tables, stored procedures and triggers) using SQL/PLSQL.  • Developed SOAP JAX-WS Web services to produce data (Campaign program) to third party vendors and to fetch the data from third party vendors.  • Coordinated with the team to resolve the production issues. Involved in designing the database tables to hold the new set of opportunities in ORACLE database.  • Performed unit testing using Junit and wrote Test Cases on every new version before sending it for User Acceptance Test (UAT).  • Working with Splunk to logging and analyzing defects status.  • Responsible for implementing the business requirements using Spring Core, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Data and Spring Security.  • Using spring framework for the business layer using Spring Core, DAO, Spring ORM, and Spring Web MVC.  • Responsible for code reviews and managed source repository using SVN for version control tool.  • Implemented the persistence layer using Hibernate-ORM. Worked on Spring Web Flow on Spring MVC for building flows in our web application.  • Worked in both UNIX and Windows based development environments.  • Agile/SCRUM is using as the project management methodology and JIRA & Confluence were the tools using to keep things in check.  • Involve in gathering, analyzing and documenting business requirements, functional requirements and data Specifications for application development.    Environment: Java 7 and 8, Servlets, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Junit, Hibernate , Apache Tomcat 7 and 9 ,Velocity Script, SOAP UI , Postman, GIT, SVN, HP ALM, Spring Boot, Splunk, SOAP, Unix, Spring, Maven, Linux, MS Access, Oracle 11g. Java Developer AIG, TX September 2017 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, preparing technical design specification documents as per the Requirements, Architecture and Development built in Java/J2EE.  • Designs, develops, tests, develops test-automation suites and delivers high quality software/solutions.  • Provided direct estimates, such as time, percentage of project completion, etc. to lead and/or manager.  • Involved in Developing solutions for electronic data submission through products of Adobe Live Cycle products  • Researched and resolved reported systems software problems efficiently and accurately while adhering to internal software management standards and procedures.  • Provided ongoing maintenance, support and enhancements in existing systems and platforms.  • Used Jenkins for the continuous integration and continuous deployment (CI/CD) of the application.  • Used Maven for compilation and building JAR, WAR and EAR files.  • Experience using Hibernate for mapping Java Classes with database and using Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Involved in Configuration and Usage of Apache Log4J for logging and debugging purposes.  • Wrote Action Classes to service the requests from the UI populate business objects & invoke EJBs.  • Developed MAVEN scripts to build and deploy the application onto Application Server and ran UNIX shell scripts and implemented auto deployment process. Used Maven as the build tool and is scheduled/triggered by Jenkins (build tool).  • Utilized data structures (array, linked list, binary trees) and algorithms (sorts, searches, hash) to achieve Low Latency.  • Worked on JQuery to make dropdown menus on web pages and display part of a webpage upon user request.  • Conversion of business scenarios to functional specifications, high and low level documents  • Possess strong working knowledge of Database Programming using SQL, PL/SQL, Triggers and Stored Procedures.  • Immense knowledge in developing applications using software methodologies like Agile and Waterfall.  • Worked alongside other engineers on the team to elevate technology and consistently apply best practices.  • Provided recommendations for continuous improvement  • Collaborated cross-functionally with business users, project managers and other engineers to achieve elegant solutions.  • Agile/SCRUM was used as the project management methodology and JIRA & Confluence were the tools used to keep things in check.  • Used JIRA tool for bug tracking and project management.    Environment: Java, Servlets, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, IBM DB2, Unix, J2EE Struts framework, Spring, Jenkins, Maven, Linux, MS Access, MS SQL Server Management Studio. Java/J2EE Developer First Data - Omaha, NE March 2017 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed Use Cases, Sequence and Class diagrams, activities, objects and components. Used UML (MS Visio) for software design.  • Involved in developing presentation layer using JSP, Hibernate, JSON, Spring Form tags, JSTL tags, HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed XML processing components for the dynamic display of the menu on the application.  • Handled Java multi-threading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user, which serves that user.  • Implemented complex back-end component to get the count in no time against large size database using Java multi-threading.  • Developed SQL Queries for retrieving the data from the database.  • Used EJB Entity Beans to map entity objects such as customer, account and product plans to relational database tables.  • Worked on creating XML and XSL extensively as the script logic was completely separated from the UI.  • Involved in working with invoking of WebServices by using Axis, REST, WSDL, SOAP with techniques such as AJAX, jQuery, JSON, DHTML and DOM Scripting.  • Worked on AngularJS to create Controllers, services and used AngularJS filters to filter the functionality in the search box.  • Used the DAO Pattern and J2EE framework facilitated the integration and deployment of, DAO, Servlets, JSP and XML.  • Implemented the authentication and authorization of the application using Spring Security and Oauth2  • Made suggestions to enhance the performance and setup Oracle jobs for every pay period change.  • Involved in analyzing the Maven dependency management in the base code to annotate dependencies on to Spring Boot application for Micro Services.  • Used Hibernate to create data layer to perform CRUD operations on the database.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration, Testing and generating of test cases for Web application using Junit, Jenkins and Log4j.  • Worked on WebSphere MQ for communication of non-concurrent applications.  • Interacted with application testers to review system defects and provided comprehensive fixes. Used JIRA for issue tracking.  • Performed a thorough unit testing and resolved several data related issues before migration to production.  Environment: Java , JSP, Spring, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Hibernate, Criteria API, Oracle, Maven, Windows7, GIT, Jasper reports, Apache Tomcat, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, Angular JS, Bootstrap CSS. Java Developer July 2013 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed an API to write XML documents from a database. Utilized XML and XSL Transformation for dynamic web-content and database connectivity.  • Involved in writing the presentation layer in Java Server Page (JSP). Strong Understanding of the software development cycle, especially Agile/Scrum.  • Developed XML's, Java Script and Java Classes for dynamic HTML generation to perform the server-side processing on the client requests.  • Used Spring Data framework to use the features of Spring JDBC and Spring ORM Classes like JDBC Template and Hibernate Template to perform the database operations by connecting to Data sources available.  • Developed UNIX shell scripts for performing administrative tasks.  • Removed all the XML based configurations required to build the MVC application and maintained in the classes using Spring Boot  • Prepared Unit test case using Junit. Worked with GIT repository to manage project to checkout and commit the code.  • Provided technical guidance to business analysts, gather the requirements and convert them into technical specifications/artifacts for developers to start.  • Communicate effectively with executive stakeholders in gathering requirements and ensuring project success.  • Used Soap web services to communicate with other applications.    Environment: Java, J2EE, XML, XSLT, JavaScript, AJAX, SOAP, AXIS, SOAP UI, AOP, JDBC Template, MVC, Oracle 10g, IBM WebSphere, Eclipse, Quality Center, JSF 2.x. Education Bachelor's degree in Computer Science and Engineering in JntuK, AP, India Bellevue University - Bellevue, NE Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Jax