Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> BI Developer (Cognos/Tableau/Informatica) Cedar Rapids, IA • An accomplished Business Intelligence Developer with overall IT experience of 7.5+  years, closely involved with JP Morgan Chase (USA), Transamerica (USA) and Qantas  Airways (India - Australia) to create BI Platform for Analytics and thus helping top  management in Decision Making.  • Having 7.5+ years of total experience which includes 7 years of experience in IBM  Cognos BI, 4 years in Informatica Power Center, 4 years in Tableau and 2 years in  ODI.  • Thoroughly worked with Client Business Team at JP Morgan Chase in the United States and  collected business requirements to build BI Reports using Cognos BI suite and Tableau.  • Thoroughly worked with Transamerica (Client) in the United States to migrate data from legacy  systems into a new platform called BaNCS using Informatica and PL-SQL Programming  and created BI Analytics for Transamerica Business Team using Cognos BI Analytics.  • Extensive experience in developing Business Intelligence for Qantas Airways (India- Australia)  using Cognos BI and ODI (Oracle Data Integrator)  • Good understanding of Python Programming and Unix Shell Scripting.  • Experience in Oracle (10g, 11g, 12c) and Teradata databases.  • Good experience in writing SQL queries and doing PL-SQL Programming.  • IBM Certified Cognos 10 BI Author and Metadata Model developer with around 7.5  years of experience in data warehousing projects.  • Involved in all phases of SDLC from requirement gathering, design, development, testing,  Production, user training and support for production environment.  • Good knowledge about Defect tracking and process.  • Extensive Knowledge on Data Warehousing Concepts.  • Hard worker, Quick learner and excellent team player with strong interpersonal and communications skills. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Software Developer Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) - Cedar Rapids, IA April 2018 to Present Transamerica Financial Services (Cedar Rapids, Iowa, USA) Apr 2018 - Present    Projects: Conversion Project (Data Migration and Business Intelligence)    ? Collecting Business Requirements, hosting meetings among various stakeholders, onshore and offshore team, attending defect calls and fixing high severity bugs.  ? Working on Cognos BI to cater business needs of enterprise level Reporting and decision making.  ? Extensively using Framework Manager, Powerplay Transformer, Report Studio, Event Studio, Workspace, Workspace Advance, Heavy metadata models and Complex Reports using Conditional formats, drill throughs, prompts etc. in Cognos.  ? Developed DMR (Dimensional Modelling of Relational Data) and Relational Models using Framework manager in Cognos.  ? Created Package as a source for the Cubes and Reports development by using Cognos Framework Manager Metadata Modelling.  ? Developed cubes using Cognos Power Play Transformer.  ? Created reports using Report studio analysis views using Analysis studio in Cognos.  ? Introducing Tableau to Customers for interactive dashboarding.  ? Developing various charts using Tableau like Heat map, Word Cloud, Bubble Chart, waterfall chart, tree chart and pareto chart.  ? Developing Histograms, reference lines/bands, Sets, Groups and various calculated fields in Tableau.  ? Developing interactive dashboarding using parameters and stories in Tableau.  ? Working on Informatica and PL-SQL to migrate huge amount of data from legacy systems to a product platform in Oracle database.  ? Extensively working on Informatica PowerCenter tools – Designer, Repository Manager, Workflow Manager and Workflow Monitor.  ? Experience in developing mappings, mapplets, sessions, workflows using Informatica Power Center.  ? Developing mappings in Informatica to load the data from various sources into the Data warehouse using different transformations like Source Qualifier, Expression, Lookup, Aggregator, Update Strategy and Joiner.  ? Experience in monitoring Informatica sessions as well as performance tuning of mappings and sessions, identifying and resolving performance bottlenecks in various levels like sources, targets, mappings and sessions.  ? Extensively using SQL and PL/SQL to write stored procedures, Functions, Packages, Cursors in different environments.  ? Experience in Performance Tuning of Complex SQLs.    • JP Morgan Chase (Columbus, Ohio, USA) Oct 2014 – Mar 2018    Projects: Branch Review, BCBS (Basel Committee of Banking Supervision) – Credit Cards and Business Banking line of business    ? Worked on end to end BI implementation starting from data extraction to its transformation and then loading into data marts followed by metadata modeling and development of enterprise level BI reports and dashboards.  ? Worked on several data warehousing projects and developed BI Solutions for customers, like Projects based on Basel Committee on Banking Supervision regulations (BCBS) and Bank Audit.  ? Worked as Subject Matter Expert and Onshore Lead for Cognos BI, Tableau and Informatica.  ? Delivered projects efficiently and on time with zero defects by adhering to BI/DW and Cognos best practices.  ? Worked on Cognos BI Framework Modeling, Cognos BI application design & development and obtained appropriate approvals from Business owners/ Architects etc.  ? Designed and developed complete reporting solutions for business through Complex Reports and Dashboards.  ? Assisted team members on fundamental design methodologies, coding, trouble-shooting and other technical issues on Cognos. ? Developed Cognos FM model and published packages from Framework Manager to Cognos connection. ? Developed OLAP cube models in Cognos Transformer, created analysis views in Analysis studio and Scheduled Cognos reports in Event Studio.  ? Worked on complex reports which included combinational charts, crosstabs with different date logics for both ad hoc and schedule runs in Cognos.  ? Worked closely with Cognos Admins during implementation and validation across environments.  ? Enhanced existing Cognos Reports and Framework Data Model.  ? Fixed Performance Issues in Cognos.  ? Solely Responsible for Cognos implementation from DEV to Prod using ITSM Change requests.  ? Developed interactive dashboarding in Tableau using parameters and complex worksheets.  ? Developed various charts using Tableau like Heat maps, Word Cloud, Bubble Chart, waterfall chart, tree chart, pareto chart in Tableau.  ? Involved in representing the data using various visualization types likes Crosstabs, Pie and bar charts using Tableau.  ? Involved in using data blending, filters, actions feature in Tableau.  ? Involved in interacting with client to modify the report/dashboard changes in Tableau.  ? Accessed various data sources to pull data for reporting and analysis in Tableau.  ? Developed Histograms, reference lines/bands, sets, groups and various calculated fields in Tableau.  ? Developed Stories in Tableau based on business requirements.  ? Worked on Geo-Coding in Tableau.  ? Good experience in both Relational and Dimensional Metadata Modeling.  ? Worked with the data modeler to identify how the attributes related to each other, data flow, facts and dimensions.  ? Identified the mapping between the source and target data and built the mapping document.  ? Extensively worked on Informatica PowerCenter tools – Designer, Repository Manager, Workflow Manager and Workflow Monitor.  ? Extensively used various Transformations in Informatica Power Center to create data marts using SCD1 and SCD2 mappings.  ? Worked on both Snowflake and Star schema data models.  ? Developed ETL code for complex mappings using various transformations that involved implementation of business logic to load data from staging area to fact tables.  ? Developed Unix shell scripts to call informatica workflows, Packages, java programs.  ? Extensively using SQL and PL/SQL to write stored procedures, Functions, Packages, Cursors in different environments.  ? Experience in Performance Tuning of Complex SQLs. Software Engineer Tech Mahindra Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2011 to September 2014 Qantas Airways (Hyderabad, India) Nov 2011 – Sep 2014    ? Closely worked with BI Architect and developed several BI solutions.  ? Exclusively worked on Cognos BI and Oracle Data Integrator (ODI).  ? Worked on development projects as well as supported several applications for their maintenance.  ? Led a BI Application Monitoring team of four at an early stage of career. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Mechanical Engineering in Mechanical Engineering Siddaganga Institute of Technology - Bengaluru, Karnataka August 2007 to August 2011 Skills Cognos, Ibm cognos, Informatica, Tableau, Teradata, Database, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Etl, Unix, Python, Java, Business intelligence, Bi, Finance, Odi Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/anupravgupta Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES    ? Business Intelligence Reporting Tool: IBM Cognos BI suite (v8.4/v10.x), Tableau v10.x  ? ETL or ELT tool: Informatica Power Center v9.x/v10.x, ODI v11g, 12c  ? Programming Language: PL/SQL, Shell, Core Java, Python  ? Database and O/S: Oracle, Teradata, Windows, Unix  ? Other Tools: PLSQL Developer, Toad, Teradata SQL Assistant, Control M  ? Domain: Banking & Finance, Insurance, Airlines