Web Developer Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software/Web Developer Wildwood, MO Work Experience Web Developer Motivation Technologies - Webster Groves, MO September 2018 to June 2019 ? Performed constant improvement of the "Intel Retail Edge Program" LMS (Learning  Management System) in a fast-paced team environment.  ? Created custom tools and programs in the "Portal" (admin controls) with gradual improvement of processes and delivery using C#, MVC, Entity, .NET and jQuery. Closely followed the Accounting Team's desires and requests for said tools.  ? Made substantial improvement to the "Participant Maintenance" page with the implementation of EXP control, new search queries for Account Log, and creation of "Daily Tech Challenge Report" (extremely helpful for certain support requests).  ? Ported several tools from the old Admin Hub to Portal, which involved converting VB into C#, then reformatting the "view" and SQL to fit new business rules.  ? Constantly worked on multiple development branches simultaneously using a Mercurial Repository. Managed deployments of the application using TeamCity.  ? Utilized strong SQL skills to build dozens of ad-hoc reports for the Accounting Team. Busser The Pasta House Co - Ellisville, MO May 2016 to December 2018 ? Assisted restaurant servers by cleaning and resetting all tables after use. Cleaned the bathrooms and bar at the end of every night  ? Considered a favorite busser by most of restaurant staff because of vigorous work ethic. Software Developer Planet Technology - Wildwood, MO June 2017 to September 2018 ? Performed maintenance and support requests for the "sports management system" used by local Athletic Associations (Pond, Manchester, Ellisville, Ballwin, St. Alban Roe, etc. This ASP.NET web application handles player registration, credit card payments, team assignment, and automated game scheduling.  ? Designed software solutions for continuous improvement in efficiency and responsiveness of the web application based on customer feedback.  ? Created an automated tool to detect and repair desyncs of game schedule data (desyncs were occurring because some clients were not removing games properly).  ? Deployed vital updates to production using Visual Studio, SQL Server, and FileZilla.  ? When a server backup failed, resulting in the loss of 3-weeks' worth of data, I utilized PayPal's reporting service to find the lost registration/payment data and re-entered it into the database. Education Associates in Arts St. Louis Community College 2018 High school or equivalent Lafayette High School 2015 Skills C++ (2 years), C# (3 years), Java (2 years), HTML5 (1 year), CSS3 (1 year), Javascript (1 year), JQuery (1 year), Typescript (1 year), Knockout.js (1 year), MS SQL Server (2 years), ASP.NET Framework, Entity Framework, MVC Additional Information Eagle Scout from Boy Scouts of America, Troop 603.  Earned 42 merit badges, served in 5 leadership positions, performed 100+ hours of community service, and completed National Youth Leadership Training (NYLT).