BI Developer/Analyst BI <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Analyst BI Developer/Analyst Chicago, IL Highly motivated, part-time Business Intelligence Developer/Analyst with 2+ years of development experience, recent grad with MS in Information Systems - BI and looking to leverage this knowledge and experience in Data Science or Business Intelligence department. Work Experience BI Developer/Analyst American Hotel Register Company and Plego Technologies - Chicago, IL July 2018 to March 2019 Optimized the design of BI deliverable by assembling functional and non-functional requirements and providing  solutions through interactive data visuals of large data (Reports, Dashboards & Visualizations) using SAPAC.  • Created Jobs, Workflows and Data Flows using ETL tool -Business Object Data Service according to specifications and analysing large data sets and converting them into insights that drive business decisions at all organizational levels.  • Structured & developed Web Intelligence reports to address the growing business needs, performed independent  analyses & package findings to help inform organizational decision-making.  • Performed Web scraping using Python as required by the business.  • Assisted in design, configure, program, perform unit and integration testing to ensure quality implementation and eliminate production problems. Intern Web Developer Fortress Consulting Group - Chicago, IL June 2018 to August 2018 Assisted in internal web development projects and the development of new websites, webpages, and SPA while testing, debugging and maintaining those projects. Software Engineer (PHP Developer) Justdial Limited - Mumbai, Maharashtra March 2016 to May 2017 • Optimized page's title, description, keywords & overall code using PHP to achieve top-notch site loading speed.  • Planned along with senior managers new ways to increase revenue for the business and minimize errors. Web Developer Exa India Pvt. Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra September 2015 to February 2016 Managed in an internal R&D Team and Developed ad-hoc Reports and Crons, created a database and module  that calculates profits, loss, invoice, information on various services for all clients.  Project: EP-CRM - An internal project to manage the history of the client with the company. Education Master's in Information Systems DePaul University - Chicago, IL September 2017 to June 2019 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Engineering University of Mumbai May 2015 Diploma in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Maharashtra State Board of Technical Education May 2012 Skills VISUAL STUDIO, Hadoop, Hive, HTML, MapReduce, PHP, CODEIGNITER, PYTHON, MATPLOTLIB, NUMPY, PANDAS, MAPREDUCE, ETL, HADOOP, POWER BI, SQL, SHAREPOINT, SSRS, TABLEAU, SAP, BI, Business Intelligence, Powerbi, Data Warehouse Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/ankit-parmar-96a005b6