Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Ca SUMMARY    I am currently interested in web application/ software development with designing and testing roles like Full stack dev, QA , front end , Web application dev and Software Engineer to provide insights in development by providing functionality using various technology.  I am graduate student from California State University majoring in computer science with GPA 3.4    Possess strong analytical and problem solving skills with the ability to adapt to a new environment and meet stringent deadlines. Possess a flexible & detail oriented attitude. A team player with excellent technical, communication, and leadership skills. Involved in every stage of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) that includes Requirement gathering, Analyzing, Designing, Coding, Testing & Production Support    Proficient in developing web page quickly and effectively using Java, Spring MVC, PHP, HTML 5, CSS, JavaScript(ES6) and JQUERY and also experience in making web page cross browser compatible.  Skilled in creating custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of core Node.JS. Better understanding of architecture, callbacks, promises and other NPM modules ( ExpressJs, Loadash, http and etc.).  Skilled in creating Restful API for passing the data in different modules in an application, Moreover API for end testing. Good hands in implementing Web API calls and JSON.    Handled UI with Angular JS and React JS (MVC framework) to control the page layout. Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML5 and AngularJS. AngularJS components such as controllers, Services, filters, models. Used Angular.js Directives: ng-app, ng-model, ng-repeat, ng-show, ng-hide, ng-controller and ng-route, angular-fire. Developed application using Node and React js for Asynchronous Module Definition (AMD) , creating components rendering it and injecting the components on target page .Handy with React js for the front end styled using CSS. Developed React js applications by completing stories in timely manner while maintaining best practices outlined by the team lead.    Proficient in designing, reviewing and documentation of system test plans, defining test procedures and creating test cases based on products releases features, client's requirements and related technical documents.  Created automated test scripts with JavaScript. Also possess experience in using Nightwatch Js, Mocha, Jasmine for testing web services developed using Selenium webdriver. Also automated test scripts with Java with experience in using JUnit for testing.  Experience in Web debugging tools like XPath, Firepath, and Firebug and also provided efficient locators for strategies like Xpath and CSS to run web driven scripts and in debugging JavaScript and CSS.    Skilled in developing applications with Android Operating Systems using Android Studio, Eclipse IDE, SQLite, Java, Android SDK. Created Different Layouts for the App with full support and providing more rich looks to the UI. Working around with JSON and GSON implementations for server to client calls. Using third party APIs such as google maps. Better Understanding of data flow and Activities, Services, Content providers and receivers.    Maintained the code and resources in source controls like GitHub, SVN, Gerrithub over the time for improvements and new features    I have 3 years of overall experience in the field development and testing, my long-term goal is to become a better developer. With numerous college projects on web apps and software development under my belt I would like to seek the chance to showcase my skills and talents. With proper guidance and a nice work environment I would excel and be a great asset for any organization. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Innovyze - Monrovia, CA February 2018 to February 2019 Working on software powered by Innovyze mainly SCADAWatch software. This software provides real time and dashboard analytics mainly for water management and paling industry. Performing SDLC on various module of the software. CRUD operation on SQL/NO SQL Database, Creating back-end web services to communicate through the application using C# and Entity Framework, Creating services on client side using JavaScript, jQuery and angular 6  Using Html, CSS , Bootstrap and other 3rd party jQuery UI for making pages appealing and responsive.  Environment:  ASP.net , MVC, C# , Angular 6 , TypeScript, JQuery , JavaScript(ES6 and vanilla script) , 3rd party library(widget , chosen , picker , toast), SVN , SQL , PostgreSQL.   Software Developer Quikstor August 2017 to January 2018 Current)  Quikstor  Designing and programming standard based websites for large scale businesses using HTML, CSS3/CSS, JavaScript, and JQuery, Angular.JS 2 and More, ReactJS, Node.js. Used Angular, JQuery and JavaScript for front end web designing. Implemented Angular application to follow strict MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance. Worked on Net Beans and Visual Studio to create web pages using HTML, CSS3/CSS and JavaScript, Angular.js, Node.js. Created additional JavaScript modules for form validations and testing and restricting user input. Developed reusable components using Custom Directives in Angular.JS. Used RxJS Observables in angular JS for consuming RESTful web services. Backend is implemented using Node.js and MongoDB is used for storage and handling of data. Worked on REST APIs and implemented RESTful web services. Proficient in Web designing & development, using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, ES6, ES5, XML, ReactJs/Node.JS, Angular2 , TypeScript, JSP, JSON, JSF and Ajax. Source code management is done using GitHub with GitBash and Visual Studio Code. Project deployment is done in Heroku environment. Jr. Developer Alive Minds - IN July 2013 to April 2014 India  Developed the application from specifications and requirement gathering using Android SDK, Java, PHP and MYSQL  Gained training under senior developer in It Division of Alive Minds Creatives ltd, Designed and developed applications for client using Android platform.  Worked as android developer on both backend (PHP) and front end (Android and XML) of the module using tools Eclipse, MS Visio 2007 and Android Studio.  Build database system to store the data.Fixed bugs and reported the test cases for improving application performance to provide maintenance and post release support for the application.  Environment: Android Studio , JAVA , XML, PHP , JSON , APIs , Maps , Eclipse , Android SDK    E Education Bachelors of Science in Computer science Gujarat Technological University 2014 Master of Science in Computer Science California State University - Los Angeles, CA Skills JAVA (2 years), CSS (1 year), XML (1 year), Git (1 year), PHP (1 year), Javascript, MySQL, Android, jQuery, ASP, HTML 5 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/daxesh-mehra-a89328138 https://www.github.com/daxesh10 http://idaxesh.herokuapp.com Additional Information KILLS    Language/ Script Java, JavaScript(ES5 & ES6), NodeJS, Coffee script (Mocha), Automation Script, C, Android , SQL ,PL/SQL , Unix  Frameworks Data Driven, Chakram, Nightwatch, Chai , Nightmare , PhantomJS Mocha, postman , Junit , Jmeter  Databases Technologies MS SQL Server 2000/2005, PL/SQL, SQL, MYSQL, NoSQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Firebase and AWS(cloud).  Operating Systems Windows XP, vista & server, UNIX, Linux and Mac  Utilities Eclipse, GIT, SVN, CVS, Firebug, FirePath  Web Technologies: AngularJs, Javascript, HTML 5.0, CSS, Spring, Hibernate, PHP, XML, XPATH, AJAX, JSP, JSTL, Nodejs  Testing Tools Selenium WebDriver/IDE, JUnit, TestNG, Cucumber, Mocha , Jasmine  Tools and IDE Eclipse IDE, NetBeans IDE, PHP Strom, Wordpress , VisualStudio Code , Android Studio  Designing software Drupal , Magento , Photoshop , Blender.  Deployment GitHub, GerritHub, Filezilla , Heroku    P  ROFESSIONAL  E