Software Development Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Development Engineer Software Development Engineer - Hiconversion Inc Seattle, WA I am a full-stack JavaScript developer with experience using modern frontend frameworks (ReactJS, AngularJS), Node.JS, MEAN stack, and JAMstack. I'm looking to bring my unique experience to a development role to write high quality applications. My full-stack experience is slanted toward front-end, but my experience at a startup brought me all over the stack every day. I quickly became an authority on the software my company creates, becoming a go-to resource for my peer developers, and a trusted delegatee for my superiors. This led to multiple promotions in relatively quick succession. I pick up new skills and ramp up into existing projects quickly, and I enjoy doing so. I have a passion for elegant, simple, and readable code, and a penchant for quickly devising solutions to difficult, urgent problems. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Development Engineer Hiconversion Inc - Boca Raton, FL February 2019 to Present • Monitored ongoing operation of assigned programs and responded to problems by diagnosing and correcting logic and coding errors.  • Developed clean, performant Node+Express API endpoints delivering data to decoupled consumption interface.  • Developed robust server-side testing suites for API endpoints.  • Worked with CTO to develop enterprise ReactJS application, delivering clean user experience utilizing React Hooks API, UX best practices, and decoupled architectural patterns.  • Worked alongside Braintree developers to create multivariate testing platform, integrating dynamic payment processing solutions for Magento 2 merchants.  • Worked alongside PayPal developers to build and integrate advanced dynamic content creation and conversion optimization features for cross-platform eCommerce merchants.  • Developed analytics API plugin for full-service eCommerce platform AbleCommerce. Software Developer Hiconversion Inc - Boca Raton, FL April 2018 to February 2019 • Built and integrated d3.js sunburst chart to track site visitor journeys to existing dataset.  • Developed jQuery functions and CSS selectors to accurately identify cross-platform HTML elements (add to cart button, minicart, navigation, etc.) across most major eCommerce platforms.  • Developed 40+ JavaScript "templates" that enable site owners to implement cross-platform UX/UI A/B tests without coding.  • Conceptualized and developed metadata-driven consumption GUI for code-free AB test creation.  • Built Zendesk REST API to retrieve and display help content.  • Worked with senior developer to optimize and add major functionality to JavaScript analytics and delivery script used on 500+ major eCommerce sites. Functionality includes improved debugging tools, passing MongoDB data objects through to client sites, several major eCommerce platform APIs, additional event handling, helper library code, etc.  • Developed test suites for aforementioned JS script.  • Developed Node.js BigCommerce App allowing users to integrate HiConversion analytics and delivery script on BigCommerce sites without code.  • Contributed ideas and suggestions in team meetings with CTO and Senior Engineers and delivered updates on deadlines, designs, and enhancements. Junior Software Development / Software Development Intern Hiconversion Inc - Boca Raton, FL August 2017 to April 2018 • Wrote full suite of technical documentation for startup software company.  • Spearheaded full navigation UX / UI overhaul.  • Conceptualized and built "Health Check", an analytics dashboard for eCommerce companies to diagnose kinks in their user conversion journeys.  • Wrote JavaScript / jQuery / HTML / CSS to improve UI on client sites, earning clients millions in additional revenue generation.  • Partnered with a company mentor to learn debugging techniques, becoming a multifaceted and lithe debugging machine. Web Developer Mossbay Co - Seattle, WA March 2017 to August 2017 • Wrote and deployed live full-stack Ruby-on-Rails application to handle business needs.  • Designed and developed summer camp signup system to handle $250k+ eCommerce sales in seasonal revenue. Education Bachelor of Arts in English University of Washington - Seattle, WA September 2013 to January 2015 Skills Html, Javascript, Node.js, Ruby, CSS, HTML 5, Git, Jquery, ReactJS, AngularJS, Debugging, Agile