Lead Engineer Lead Engineer ASP.Net Web Developer San Jose, CA • Software Developer with close to 5.5 Years of experience in software design, analysis, development, testing and implementation of web and client server application using Microsoft Technologies.  • Working experience in agile environment using scrum methodology using JIRA.  • Experienced in developing Web Applications as well as Windows Application using .NET Framework including Windows Forms, ASP.Net, MVC.NET, Programming using C#, frontend development using Java Script, TypeScript, HTML 5, CSS, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, Bootstrap and IIS.  • Extensively used JSON (JavaScript Object Notation).  • Excellent command on creating responsive web applications using Bootstrap and CSS3.  • Experience in Creating, Consuming and Publishing Web Services (SOAP, REST) using WCF and WebAPI technologies.  • Knowledge on developing the applications using ORM framework like Language Integrated Query (LINQ) and Entity framework.  • Experience in Database Analysis/Design/Manipulation processes using SQL Server.  • Expert on developing SQL Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions and Views for Backend process using SQL Server.  • Expert in writing T-SQL statements for creating Tables, Indexes, Views and Constraints.  • Good knowledge on using source control systems like TFS and Git.  • Worked in environments with CI/CD using tools like Jenkins.  • Ability to work on strenuous team/single projects and meet deadlines. Work Experience Lead Engineer HCL Americas - Milpitas, CA November 2018 to Present AUTOMOTIVE:  Project Description: This Application collects data which will help customers to audit the tools.            • Worked on POC of the application.   • Worked with different team members to decide on requirement, Technology used to build application.   • Worked on Windows form application, C#, .Net Framework 4.0   • Used XML templates as input and output of the application.  • Used Rational Team Concert as Source Control.  • Delivered Presentations to higher management on the updates and development of the project.   • Worked with various teams to implement existing features such as dynamic password.    • Worked of documentation of the product and Help files.  • Designed the User Interface for desktop application.  Environment: C#, HTML, CSS, XML, Visual Studio 2010, .Net Framework 4, Rational Team Concert. .Net Developer Cognizant/Lincoln Financial Group (Client) - Greensboro, NC July 2018 to October 2018 • Working on a reporting tool which converts data to different kinds of chart using ASP.NET, SQL Server 2012.  • Developed stored procedure to get the data for charts. Associate Software Engineer Allscripts - Bengaluru, Karnataka May 2015 to June 2017 USA (Raleigh NC)  Project Name: Homecare (Physician Portal, Assessment).  Project Description: Homecare provides post-acute care for patients at home. Physician Portal is a website where Physician can login and sign documents such as Orders, Face to Face Encounter details, Prescription etc. Assessments are used by nurse to assist patient health using OASIS questions.  • Debugged, reproduced, resolved and committed code on product backlog bugs using C#  • Used AJAX controls for asynchronous data transfer from client to server  • Experienced with AGILE processes, proactively took the ownership of user Stories.  • Designed templates for Assessments of the patients using  • Demonstration of Designed Templates to Business Analysts  • Worked with REST Services/WCF Service Contracts, Data Contracts, Operation Contracts, Instance Modes and Security of the services  • Used jQuery for client-side validations and AJAX Calls to communicate with WCF /REST services with JSON Data  • Used LINQ and Entity framework for developing data access layer  • Created Database objects like Tables, Stored Procedures and Triggers in MS SQL Server.  • Provided codes to perform Unit Testing  • Involved C# .NET, ASP MVC, Razor, XML, HTML5, CSS3, HTML/CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, SOAP and REST APIs  • Used Model View Controller (MVC) architectural Design Patterns for the development of the product.  • Made full use of .NET object-oriented features(C#), event handling, error handling, caching and security feature  • Used jQuery UI controls, Templates and Widgets to Support the UI  Environment: C#, ASP.NET MVC, HTML5, CSS3, Visual Studio 2012, SQL Server 2012, Razor View Engine, WCF, Web services, Node.js, TypeScript, Angular, TFS Associate Software Developer Quadwave - Bengaluru, Karnataka December 2013 to May 2015 Project Name: Xceed  Project Description: Xceed is a web application which is a unique end to end data center migration management Service. It architects the complex migration designs. It provides real time information on the status of the migration project. It provides dashboard reporting at all stages of the migration and has integrated risk and cost management.  • Performed Regression Testing for multiple modules  • Stored Procedures creation in MS SQL Server  • Gathering requirement, analysis and design  • Manual Unit Testing and Bug fixing  • Developed html views with HTML 5, CSS 3, jQuery and Java Script  • Worked on Bootstrap to create Responsive Web Design  • Built custom UI Widgets and Application logic using MVC architecture  • Developed code to call the web service/APIs to fetch the data and populate on the UI using JQUERY/AJAX  • Created business & Data access layer objects using C#.NET  • Used LINQ for querying DB objects  • Used Entity framework for Database mapping  • Used XML for transferring and retrieving data  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, MVC5, WCF, Visual Studio 2012, SQL Server 2008, C#, XML, Ajax, IIS 7.0, JavaScript, TFS. Trainee Vimarshana Technology Solutions Private Limited - Bengaluru, Karnataka August 2013 to October 2013 Learnt new technologies such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript, C#.  • Built Static UI pages using HTML and CSS  • CRUD operations using MS SQL Server  • UI Validations using JavaScript  • Object Orientation Programing using C#  • Wrote SQL queries with Joins on multiple tables, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers  • Used ASP.NET Page lifecycle Techniques and handle a control's initialization, instantiating controls, restoring and maintaining state, running event handler code, and rendering  • Developed Web forms for User Interfaces using ASP.NET and C#.NET using Server controls, HTML controls and User controls  • Used C#.Net and PL/SQL Procedures in-order to access the oracle database for the front-end presentation  Environment: C# .NET, ASP.Net, ADO.Net, Microsoft Visio 2003, AJAX, PL/SQL, Visual Studio .Net, SQL Server 2008 Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills .NET, VISUAL STUDIO, API, C#, Git