SOFTWARE DEVELOPER <span class="hl">SOFTWARE</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> SOFTWARE DEVELOPER - SAP Ariba Inc Santa Clara, CA An innovative, adaptable software engineering graduate with one year of experience as a software design team member for two high-profile global companies. A collaborative professional committed to applying software engineering principals in the development of applications that benefit and improve the user experience. Current professional focus is to identify a global company positioned for growth that places a high value on team collaboration to improve the users’ experience. Work Experience SOFTWARE DEVELOPER SAP Ariba Inc - Palo Alto, CA July 2016 to Present Working as a Full Stack developer to build a brand-new user experience solution for the suppliers on Ariba Network. Also  built REST APIs using Spring framework to expose Ariba Networks functionality to business partners.  NOTABLE SKILLS:  • Development of Responsive Web Application - Working in an Agile team to design and build a web application in Angular to create a brand-new user experience for thousands of suppliers on Ariba's Commerce Network.  • Designing REST APIs - Collaborating with business partners to expose Ariba Network's functionality for enhancement via REST APIs using Springboot and Enterprise Objects framework.  • Built REST endpoints in existing B2B network to allow partners to enhance transactional documents like Purchase  Orders, Invoices, etc. moving between buyers and suppliers.  • Studied different Ariba products like Sourcing, Discovery, etc. and integrated them to allow business partners to host their  information on Ariba Discovery via REST APIs using cXML as the medium of information exchange.  • Requirement Gathering - Understanding existing business logic and legacy systems and working with Project  Managers across teams to groom requirements from both technical and business perspective.  • Technologies - Springboot, Java, jUnit, SQL, REST APIs, Apache ActiveMQ, Java Persistence API, Angular 6, Flexbox, Ariba Web Language, Karma, cXML SOFTWARE ENGINEERING INTERN WESTERN UNION DIGITAL - San Francisco, CA July 2015 to December 2015 • San Francisco, CA July, 2015 - December, 2015  A financial services and communications company specializing in money transfers across 200 countries worldwide.  SOFTWARE ENGINEERING INTERN  Worked with a team of six developers to build a cross-platform hybrid mobile application for international money transfer  service. The application was initially launched in Ireland in Oct, 2015. Within the first three months, the application was  downloaded 20,000 times.  NOTABLE SKILLS:  • Development of Scalable Web Applications - Participated with the Agile team to design and produce a web based  cross platform mobile application for IOS & Android, utilizing the Model View Controller (MVC) development model  enabling millions of users to access Western Union services on their mobile devices.  • Problem Solving - Conceptualized and delivered a faster alternate implementation of the touch feedback feature  provided by some mobile frameworks, improving the speed and performance of the App by 60%.  • Multitasking - Delivered multiple critical features in the application, including orchestrating payment services, rules  for front-end validation, and user behavior analysis using Localytics.  • Technologies - AngularJS, SCSS, HTML5, Javascript, Bootstrap CSS, Mobile Angular-UI and REST APIs.    Santa Clara, CA ª (408) 601-9370 ª himanshu124@gmail.com ª LinkedIn.com/in/himanshu124 Education Master of Science in Computer Science SANTA CLARA UNIVERSITY - Santa Clara, CA June 2016 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science NAGPUR UNIVERSITY - Nagpur, Maharashtra June 2014 Skills Javascript, HTML 5, CSS, Java (3 years), Springboot (2 years), Angular (2 years)