Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Rochester Hills, MI To acquire a position in the Information Technology or Computer Networking or Cyber Security field with an organization where my work ethic and experience can make a positive impact to the mission, vision and values of the company. Being a part of the Mobile application development team has been a great learning experience for my career. I am now looking to enhance my knowledge and gain additional experiences. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer General Motors Company - Detroit, MI June 2015 to Present Detroit, MI    Responsibilities: Develop and test (QA) global mobile applications for General Motors vehicle owners and General Motors dealerships (Dealer Sales Assistant (DSA) and my Owner applications). Create and maintain automated regression testing scripts.    ? Identified and updated Android applications to be TLS 1.1 and 1.2 compliant  ? QA for 'DSA' Dealer Sales Assistant  ? Created JSON file for 'myOwner' applications to pull vehicle information for owner manuals  ? Identified and updated Apple 'iOS' applications to be ATS compliant  ? iOS lead developer for maintenance of global and domestic legacy 'myOwner' applications across 20+ different countries and languages  ? Lead developer to maintain automated regression testing scripts using 'Perfecto' on multiple applications  ? Created a library in java and swift to keep applications up-to-date  ? Lead the development of features and enhancements in our legacy South African myOwner applications  ? iOS developer for current 'myOwner' applications  ? iOS developer on CarPlay feature for 'myOwner' application  ? Developed feature in CarPlay that allows vehicle owners to download an owner manual from the dashboard.   ? React Native developer for 'myOwner' application rewrite  ? Developed feature using React Native to allow truck owners to determine whether their trailer is safe to tow. Education Master's in Cyber Security Oakland University May 2019 Bachelor's in Computer Criminology Florida State University May 2011 to May 2015 Skills Java (3 years), Jira (3 years), QA (3 years), Swift (2 years), Objective-C (3 years), React Native (1 year), Source Tree (2 years), Git (3 years), Linux, Javascript, Android, Agile (3 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    Programming experience in UNIX shell scripting, Java, Objective-C, Swift, React Native    QA experience in 'Perfecto', created hundreds of automated test scripts for multiple applications.     Experienced with both PC and Mac systems; Unix/Linux; Virtual Machines; Microsoft Office applications (Word, Excel, PowerPoint), Jira, Stash, Bitbucket, git, Sourcetree, Jenkins, TFS    Research    Sensor Jamming Detection and Mitigation Techniques