.Net Developer Intern .Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Intern DOT Net Developer Intern - Bottom Line System Cincinnati, OH Prolific, full stack software developer with 4 years of experience in Information Technology; Skilled in ASP.NET, Web  Services, SQL Server as well as domain expertise in the field of Insurance. Seeking full time opportunities in the field of  Computer Science. Work Experience .Net Developer Intern Bottom Line System - Kentucky Point, KY June 2019 to Present Developed and design application using Microsoft PowerApps. This application allows you Create, Update, Insert  and Delete data in SQL server and Excel Spreadsheets without using complex queries. This application helped to deal with too many bugs and poor code quality issues.  • Performed edits to SQL server tables such as action codes using PowerApps functionality.  • Developed legacy applications in the Revenue Cycle Management domain for denials and underpayments for large  healthcare systems.  • Developed and design web application for healthcare system using Angular for frontend, C# for backend/legacy  and SQL Server to connect to the database.  • Involved in product development mode for migration from legacy applications to advanced web-technologies  which includes migration from angular js to angular. Software Engineer Larsen & Toubro InfoTech - Pune, Maharashtra August 2015 to June 2018 Implemented and enhanced commercial insurance system 'Policy Decision' which supports the full policy lifecycle  for highly automated products on one platform.  • Designed and developed screens using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript for frontend and C# for backend to meet  business requirements.  • Maintained the system by monitoring, identifying and correcting software defects.  • Worked with Microsoft SQL Server to analyze the stored procedure and complex SQL queries.  • Used Microsoft TFS (Team Foundation Server) for managing code, tracking issues and version control system.  • Involved in the migration process of few Line of Business under the app factory, converted VB.Net pages to C#.  • Created test plans and unit testing documents.  • Performed hotfixes and FTPs to build-back the code in production environment.  • Worked closely with business analyst to understand and verify the requirements.  • Mentored new trainees to understand the product/framework and prepared knowledge transfer documents to understand the product.  • Worked in an agile environment with scrum and Kanban methodology.  • Received individual award for being involved in the enhancements which are successfully delivered to the client  under few projects - Workers Compensation Line of Business Installments & Cross Term Enhancement.  • Test Development, Schedule & Execution / Project Management /User Training and Support / Full Stack  Development/ Troubleshooting & Issue Resolution. Project Intern Calsoft Inc - Pune, Maharashtra August 2014 to June 2015 • Created built-in tool in Linux which provides kernel statistics and Perl module in CLI mode.  • Enhanced kernel statistic module to provide the features like memory allocation, kernel system paging and other  important system information.  • Created Perl tools for extracting useful information from Kernel statistics framework. Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science College of Engineering and Applied Sciences, University of Cincinnati - Cincinnati, OH August 2019 Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology Maharashtra Institute of Technology, University of Pune - Pune, Maharashtra June 2015 Diploma in Information Technology in Information Technology Government Polytechnic Pune - Pune, Maharashtra June 2012 Skills Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, Ms visual studio, .Net, C#, MVC, WPF, WCF Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/poonam10 Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCY  • Programming Language: C#, VB.Net C, C++, Java, Python  • Databases: MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server  • Web-Based Languages: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, Angular, Node.js, Bootstrap, Mobile application development  • Software & System: MS Visual Studio, Team Foundation Server (TFS), Project Portfolio Management (PPM),  RabbitMQ, Ionic, Microsoft PowerApps  • Cloud: Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Other Technologies: Agile, Scrum, Kanban