Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Lake Crystal, MN Solving problems using full-stack development, version control, unit and end-to-end testing, and continuous integration is something I'm enthusiastic about. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer University of Minnesota Morris - Morris, MN June 2018 to May 2019 ? Redesigned and began rebuild of the University's workflow management application, which streamlines the review  process of abstract submissions for the Undergraduate Research Symposium.  ? Full stack development using Angular 7, Spark Java, and MongoDB.  ? Deployed and continuously integrated changes via an Apache web server running on a RHEL 7 VM.  ? Designed and implemented the login, submission list, and profile pages, as well as the header and footer.  ? Implemented Google OAuth 2.0 and server side sessions. Football Filmer University of Minnesota Morris - Morris, MN June 2015 to November 2018 ? Filmed practices and games for the university football team.  ? Adapted to changing schedules and locations. Full Stack Developer - Class Project My Panda - Morris, MN January 2018 to May 2018 ? Built a mobile optimized Angular 5 web application for consumers to track their emotional well-being as part of the Software Design & Development course.  ? Utilized agile methodologies on scrum teams of 4-8 developers.  ? Started each of the four two-week iterations by story planning and shopping with customers. Ended each iteration  with showcases and retrospectives. Education BA in Computer Science University of Minnesota Morris - Morris, MN August 2015 to May 2019 Skills MongoDB, Java, Git, Gradle, CSS, Javascript, HTML, TypeScript, Angular, Spark, Node.js, Express, SQL, Travis CI, JUnit, NPM, Yarn, ZenHub, Flexbox, SCSS Links https://linkedin.com/in/charlesmenne https://github.com/CMenne Awards Dean's List 2x 2019-05 Received for the spring 2018 and 2019 semesters.  To be on the Dean's List, students must:  • Achieve a 3.666 GPA or higher  • Complete a minimum of 12 credits on the A-F grading system Distinction for Senior Seminar Paper & Presentation 2018-12 The senior seminar course has students take an in-depth survey of literature in a specific computer-related field of the student's choice. Students analyze various peer reviewed articles, synthesize their contents, and present their work formally in a conference setting. Students will produce a 5-6 page ACM style paper and present that paper as a 25 minute conference-style presentation for faculty. This course is a great opportunity to develop sound communication skills, both written and oral. This course is graded pass/fail, but excellent papers and presentations are noted as "passed with distinction". These are noted with a "gold star" on the UMM CSci Senior Seminar catalog. The paper I wrote, Smart Parking Systems Design and Integration Into IoT, was published in the Scholarly Horizons: University of Minnesota, Morris Undergraduate Journal on February 15, 2019. Publications Smart Parking Systems Design and Integration Into IoT https://digitalcommons.morris.umn.edu/horizons/vol6/iss1/6/ 2019-02 This is my senior seminar paper that received distinction by the U of M Morris faculty reviewers.    Abstract:  • This paper looks at two smart parking reservation algorithms, and examines the ongoing efforts to connect smart systems of different domains in a city's infrastructure. The reservation algorithms are designed to improve the performance of smart parking systems. The first algorithm considers the distance between parking areas and the number of free parking spaces in determining a parking space. The second algorithm uses distance between parking areas and driver destination, parking price, and the number of unoccupied spaces for each parking area. Neither of these smart parking systems cover how they could fit into a larger scale smart system. As a result, we also look at how interconnection of smart systems is a big priority in the European Union. The researchers there aim to avoid vertical silos of information. Sharing smart system information between different domains can be used to create new or improved services.