Software Development Consultant <span class="hl">Software</span> Development Consultant Software Development Consultant - Geri-Care Pharmaceuticals, NY Brooklyn, NY Work Experience Software Development Consultant Geri-Care Pharmaceuticals, NY July 2018 to Present • Production Scheduling Application:  o Tasked to develop an internal scheduling application for Geri-Care's production facility with the purpose of improving interoffice efficiency.  o Allows production managers to digitally plan and schedule production runs and provide purchasing and sales departments with instant updates on availability of stock and back-order of raw materials.  o Generates statistics and reports based on frequency and duration of production runs.  o Development stack includes React, Redux, Socket.io, Node.js, and MongoDB. Web Developer Kingsborough Community College, NY November 2015 to July 2018 Designed, developed, and maintained several web applications. Development stack includes PHP, jQuery, Bootstrap and MySQL. Custom data visualization using D3 API Scripts.  • Tutorial Services Scheduling System:  o Designed and developed a self-service scheduling platform which facilitated access to academic assistance for students, and simplified scheduling for the Department of Tutorial Services.  o Increased web traffic on Kingsborough self-service site by over 75%, and nearly doubled the number of  students enrolled in the college's tutoring program.  o Gave administrators the ability to add, remove, and edit classes and student appointments.  • Queue Management System:  o Designed and developed a web application which allowed students to reserve their place in the registration  office and announced the student's name when an advisor was available.  o Provided the ability to generate reports with statistics showing volume of people visiting the office.  o Designed and implemented a security layer with permissions assigned for any UI component independently  based on current user's role. Software Development Consultant, SmileTechLab, NY www.smiletechlab.com December 2017 to April 2018 • Custom Billing Web Application (www.smiletechlab.com):  o Designed and developed a billing/invoice management system that keeps track of inventory and sales, and generates professional invoices and sales reports.  o Created a REST API, including JSON data format using Node.js and MongoDB.  o UI / UX features implemented using React and Bootstrap. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Brooklyn College 2014 Associate in Science in Computer Science New York City College of Technology 2011 Links http://linkedin.com/in/emilifraimov