Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Entrevation LLC Created projects in the past couple years from User Interfaces to Databases, spin up and secured servers and created API. Strong passion for the process learning breaking things down to its simplest most manageable parts and then turning them into great solutions. The next logical step is to take my skills to the next level and deliver on a professional level and become a great asset for a great company. Work Experience Software Engineer Entrevation LLC December 2018 to Present Build Scalable Web Apps with Django Rest Framework and Vue CLI.  ? Use Django for separation of concerns and modularity for easy maintenance and communication of each logic purposes.  ? Separate each logic, database and User Interface on its own container(ie Microservices) and maintain the cluster with Nanobox.  ? Deploy Apps to server using container with Nanobox.  ? Use bootstrap CSS to create custom UI.  ? Monitor, update and audit Production Server.  ? Build custom solutions such a scrappers and automation.  ? Use Vue CLI to create both prototypes and production level Apps. Software Engineer API for Viberoom.radio October 2018 to October 2018 Secure server by not allowing root sign, created a custom admin profile to and changed the port for SSH  ? Added custom ssh key for passwordless communication with the server  ? Setup Postgres with Docker to store data  ? Created custom algorithms to organize the data received from Patreon wehbooks  ? Used Express Js to create routes that receive webhooks from Patrons API  ? Created a communication stream between Express and Postgres using Sequelize JS  ? Use docker swarm to maintain containers.  ? Setup Communication between containers with REST.  ? Hosted an API to request data with Express js and Sequelize Js Software Engineer Custom POWERUP(Freelancing) August 2018 to August 2018 UP Trello Application(Work For Client) - (Aug.2018)  A custom solution with Trello allowing User to search a team members and all the cards and list associated with him/her  Software Engineer  ? Used the Trello's API with Express JS request to create custom triggers that organize data stored in Trello based on clients' specifications  ? Designed and implemented a custom UI that works on Trello's client using their CSS library for consistency  ? Implemented a database that performs CRUD operations using Express and Sequelize JS  ? Created a Postgres database that communicates with Express Js using Sequelize JS Student Catalog June 2018 to June 2018 Created a Flask Web Application with best practices such blueprints, PEP8 and project file structures  ? Created a database that tracks users and handles CRUD operations with postgres  ? Allow communication between the database and flask with SQLAlchemy  ? Hosted an API for data requests with Flask and SQLAlchemy  ? Deployed a production-ready web application to AWS Lightsail using apache  ? Secured Lightsail VPS with best practices such as not allowing root login, changing the ssh port, adding custom user for administration purposes and firewall settings Software Engineer Tskrr(Personal Project) December 2017 to June 2018 Deployed a production-ready web application on Heroku  ? Implemented a REST service using the Django framework for API operations  ? Built a responsive UI for system administrators  ? Implemented a feature to send notifications for a payment system  ? Built a geological user tracking system Student Neighborhood May 2018 to May 2018 Used Google Maps Api and Foursquare API to create a dynamic, single page web application  ? Bootstrapped Development with external Framework such as Bootstrap CSS for styling and Knockout Js for functionalities  ? Created a search input feature that communicates with foursquare and retrieves data real time with Knockout JS's AJAX method  ? Implemented asynchronous error handling with knockout Js  ? Displayed the data on both custom UI and on Google Maps UI when called showing the user the exact location of their queries Student My Reads 2017 to December 2017 Udacity Project) - (Dec. 2017)  Developed a Single Page Application with React that communicates with a third party API with CRUD functionality  Student  ? Cloned Udacity's starter code  ? Refactored the codebase to ES6  ? Created routes with react router  ? Turn starter code from one file into modular components  ? Added a Search functionality feature  ? Pass data and methods with props from parent component to child Student Logs November 2017 to November 2017 Used Psycopg to search and organize data to answer questions such as "Top authors" and "Top Articles" in the database  ? Organized code with PEP8 style guide  ? Formatted the output text for readability Web Developer Greentrust August 2016 to October 2017 Turn a Design Sketch into static a static HTML CSS UI using bootstrap CSS  ? Communicated with an external API with Jquery AJAX methods  ? Implemented error handling with jQuery  ? Added functionalities and search inputs with jQuery  ? Wrote Documentation for codebase Maintenance Designer/ Web Developer Apprentice SmartBee(startup) October 2015 to May 2016 Created Mockups with Photoshop  ? Annotated and took feedback which I turned into wireframes  ? Learn Basic CSS and HTML which allowed me to create more interactive mockups.  ? Worked closely with founder in order to turn his vision a reality. Education Entertainment Design Academy Of Art - San Francisco, CA January 2009 to January 2010 Skills Visual studio, Back end, Django, Docker, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Webpack, Python, Flask, Css, Postgresql, Sql, Sqlite, Knockout, Bash, jQuery, AWS EC2/Lamnda/CloudFormation/ElasticBeanstalk/Route53/RDS/DynamoDB, Frameworks, Git, MYSQL, PHP