Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - QVC Work Experience Full Stack Developer QVC - US October 2018 to Present Technologies Used: Microservices, Spring Cloud, Spring Boot, Jenkins, Maven Kubernates, NetflixOSS, Kafka, Angular4.    Responsibility  ? Responsible for writing Rest Api.  ? Working in UI side also as per sprint planning.  Project #2:  ? Project Name: Interstellar API Developer QVC - DE February 2018 to Present Technologies Used: Microservices, Spring Cloud, Spring Boot, Jenkins, Maven Kubernates, Netflix Eureka, postgress, Kafka.    Description:  This app provides user to connect your vehicle remotely (e.g. locking and unlocking of the doors, (de-)activation of stationary heater/ventilation).    Responsibility  ? Responsible for Migrating apps from inhouse to cloud environment.  ? Understating software module.    Project #3:  ? Project Name: Jabil InControl Technical Consultant ITC Infotech PVT Ltd Present Application developer IBM India PVT Ltd October 2019 Software Engineer Techsan India Technologies PVT Ltd - Delhi, DELHI, IN July 2015 to October 2018 Duration: From June 2014 to July 2015    Technical Expertise  ? Languages: Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Microservices Java Rest API,  Spring Security, Spring MVC, Hibernate  ? Software: Eclipse  ? Databases: My SQL, DB2, Oracle  ? Web Technologies: JavaScript, Angular4  ? Other: IBM Bluemix(Cloud), Junit, Subversion, Git, Maven, Jenkins, Jira, Swagger, Sonar.    Project #1:  ? Project Name: QVC API Developer QVC - US December 2017 to February 2018 Technologies Used: Rest Api, Java, JPA, DB2    Description:  InControl 2.0 is a supply chain management analytical tool for assessing the risks and scores according to the activities around the world.    Responsibility  ? Responsible for designing, coding and implementing several modules of this application.  ? Write the REST API as per the requirements given by the BA.  ? Reviewing the new requests and change the existing mapping based on the new business requirements  ? Doing the coding as per the design document and writing the Unit test case for the new requirements    Project #4:  ? Project Name: Adopt -Hosting  ? Client: AT&T Inc.    Description: Adopt-Hosting (AT&T Design Optimization & Pricing Tool for Enterprise Hosting) is a sales tracking, design, price, propose, contracting, and data repository application for the Hosting, Cloud & Application Services portfolio.    ? Technologies Used: Spring 2.0, Hibernate, Oracle    Project #5:  ? Electronic Global Business Solutions(eGBS)  ? Client: AT&T Inc.    Description: EGBS is an Network Integration's costing/pricing tool for bidding on PBX and LAN/WAN installation and maintenance throughout the world covering 7 regions US, LA, Canada, AP, JP, India and EMEA.