Software Engineer - Big Data <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer - Big Data Software Engineer - Big Data - Ford Motor Company Dearborn, MI • 3 years of experience in software application development including Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, and Support of applications.  • Good knowledge in core java concepts of Multi-threading, Design Patterns, Collections, Exception Handling, Polymorphism, Data Structures and Sorting Algorithms.  • Strong hands-on experience on Hadoop Ecosystem including Spark, HIVE, HDFS, YARN, HBase, Kafka.  • Proficient in developing and consuming RESTful web services using Spring Rest Controllers and Spring Boot.  • Demonstrated excellent presentation and communication skills while working as a part of a team or independently. Work Experience Software Engineer - Big Data Ford Motor Company September 2017 to Present Project: One Integrated Platform  • FordDirect provides digital marketing and advertising solutions to Ford and Lincoln dealers.  • One Integrated Platform is a collection of large amount of data and tools that are required for FordDirect to be a full service digital provider. It creates a comprehensive Web presence for dealers and provide digital marketing services that help dealers sell more cars and trucks.  Responsibilities:  • Design and develop data ingestion pipelines using Hadoop, Hive, Spark and HBase.  • Experience building applications to consume marketing/analytics data from Google, Facebook and Adobe REST API's using Java and Spring Boot.  • Develop real-time data processing pipeline to perform location analytics to compare visitor trends between sites or after launching campaigns using Spark Streaming, Kafka, HBase, Kudu.  • Experience developing applications using Java 8 features such as lambdas, Streams, and Futures  • Developed daily ingestion pipeline that process flat files from SFTP using Scala and Spark programming.  • Generated monthly financial reports by aggregating huge data from Hive and process through Spark application Graduate Assistant State University - Northwest, Missouri, US August 2016 to December 2016 Courses: Object Oriented Programming (Java) and Developing Web Applications and Services  • Assisted students in the lab and classroom activities related to Object Oriented Principles (Java).  • Mentored and provided guidance to students in their projects and assignments.  • Assisted faculty in creating course material, student assignments, conduct help sessions and maintaining student grade book in Canvas. Software developer - Intern Web Synergies - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2014 to November 2015 Developed the internal applications to automate the business process and store the documents. These internal applications are used for content management through which users can request a new site, which is used to store their project related documents.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in java application development using Servlets, Spring MVC, and Hibernate.  • Used HTML5 and Bootstrap for building the user interface.  • Performed front-end validations using JavaScript.  • Developed SQL queries for performing CRUD operations and operating on aggregate functions and joins. Education Master's in Computer Science Northwest Missouri State University - Maryville, MO January 2016 to April 2017 Bachelor's in Electronics And Communication Engineering RVR& JC College of Engineering August 2011 to May 2015 Skills Java, Spring, Hadoop (2 years), Spark, Hive, Scala, Git