Research Assistant Research Assistant Java Developer | Full Stack Development | Dallas, TX Work Experience Research Assistant Texas A&M University - Kingsville June 2018 to May 2019 Description:  Contributed in the teaching and research under the professor of the university. The area of work  included: Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Cognitive Vision, Cyber-Human Systems, Behavioral Bio-Signal Processing and Brain & Cognitive Sciences.  This also included the work of the Research dissertation, which included working on Data  processing, Neural Analytics and MATLAB. The work also comprised of data processing using  machine learning algorithms like Principal Component Analysis (PCA) and Linear Discriminant  Analysis (LDA). R language scripting was dominantly used in this process. Web Developer Intern Infotech Solutions Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2015 to May 2016 Description:  Designed and developed web pages for rich user interface using HTML5, CSS3.0, JavaScript, AngularJS and Bootstrap. The programming part of the job included but was not limited to PHP and  JSP. Projects required the implementation of RESTFUL services. The projects provided great  exposure towards Full-stack Web Development. Software Developer Intern Cloud Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2015 to August 2015 Description:  Actively involved in defining the System design, architecture and creation of the software system in accordance with the Software Development Life Cycle. Implemented agile techniques within the  Umbrella methodology for development. Also prepared and presented the reports for operational and technical functionality of the projects. Graphic Designer LightHouse Monthly - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2014 to January 2015 Description:  Worked with sophisticated softwares like Photoshop, InDesign, Coral Draw and Dreamweaver. This  was a very nice experience earlier on during my career along with my studies, which gave strong  roots for Web Development and understanding on how to make appealing and responsive web  applications. Education Master of Science in Computer Science Texas A&M University - Kingsville, TX May 2019 Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2016 Skills JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, PHP, PYTHON, Android Programming, Hadoop (Less than 1 year), Java (4 years), NoSQL (1 year), AngularJS (1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/musabfaiyaz Groups Golden Key International Honor Society January 2018 to Present Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Compiled Languages: JAVA, Python  • Database Softwares: MongoDB, MySQL, Talend, Bokeh  • Frameworks: Spring MVC, J2EE, Restful, SWINGS,  • Web Programming: HTML5, CSS3, PHP, JavaScript, AJAX, Bootstrap, JSP / JDBC  • Mobile Development: Android SDK, SQLite  • Miscellaneous: Microsoft Office, Photoshop, Dreamweaver