Lead Web Developer Lead Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Web Developer Silver Spring, MD Software Developer and Database Developer with over 5 years of experience in the IT Industry. Experience in planning, developing and implementing web page design and layouts. A polished professional with expertise providing support to clients regarding their implementations. Possess impactful organizational skills with a prowess in cross-functional team communication and leadership. Expertise in software testing, troubleshooting, data analysis, identifying issues while finding effective solutions and providing program development documentation. Work Experience Lead Web Developer Eagle Hill Consulting - Washington, DC October 2018 to April 2019 • Tailored markup languages as HTML and JavaScript to create user-friendly user interface components for applications.  • Collaborated with Project Managers and Business Analyst (BA) to understand the business design and requirements.  • Supported team with maintenance of production websites using Federal services, and JavaScript API, while making CIO website mobile friendly.  • Utilize HTML, CSS and JavaScript to meet the web application requirements and business needs.  • Continuously uploaded and maintained federal blogs utilizing Markup HTML and CSS.  • Utilize Adobe XD to develop wireframes for the Federal proprietary website to meet the stakeholder requirements.  • SME for CIO's during the Analysis, Design, and development phase of the CIO.gov website.  • Consulted stakeholders with capacity planning for the CIO.gov website.  • Coordinate input from other components in order to design detailed programs and websites.  • Provide guidance to less experienced coworkers in solving programming problems.  • Complied with the U.S. Web design System in the design and implementation of the CIO.gov website. Software Developer Flex L.L.C - Hyattsville, MD March 2017 to August 2018 • Programed in HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP and MySQL to create appealing responsive websites.  • Developed and updated the Flex internal website.  • Evaluated the Web tasks and techniques across all lines of company.  • Created, modified and improved web page design and layouts.  • Established and maintained effective risk mitigation procedures.  • Advised internal groups on all issues relating to the web site and best next steps.  • Collaborated with design team to create and enhance HTML templates and wireframes. Head Software Developer Baleraeye L.L.C - Silver Spring, MD January 2017 to March 2017 • Developed Baleraeye.com using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and PHP.  • Utilized JavaScript libraries such as angular.js, Bootstrap and developed user authorization system.  • Created Inventory ordering system through Stripe API.  • Developed the backend of the Balaeraeye.com website utilizing MySQL.  • Optimizing web server configurations and scaling web applications.  • Connected web applications to the Google Map API and Facebook API. Sole Software Developer ESFNA - Silver Spring, MD April 2015 to December 2016 • Determined technical needs of the project and ensured it coordinated with specifications and requirements.  • Developed the ESFNA website using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Ensured the site followed the brand guidelines and business needs. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Towson University Skills Adobe XD (5 years), HTML (5 years), CSS (5 years), HTML 5 (5 years), CSS3 (5 years), Javascript (5 years), PHP, Dreamweaver (5 years), Illustrator (5 years), SQL (5 years), JQuery (5 years), Ajax, Git (5 years), MySQL, React JS (5 years), Linux (5 years) Links https://github.com/KidusTadesseCode Certifications/Licenses OCA- SQL fundamentals 1Z0-06 Present Security+ July 2019 to July 2022 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS AND TOOLS    Programming Languages: C++, Java, PHP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, SQL, JQuery, Ajax, React JS Markup language  Tools: Dreamweaver, Microsoft Office, MySQL, Dreamweaver, Fireworks, NetBeans, GitHub, Adobe XD, Atom, Multiple frameworks  • Wireframing in preparation for Federal webservices  • Change Management/Release Management Protocols  • Generate Standard Operating Procedures and Documentation  • Agile Methodologies (Sprints, SCRUM, etc.), Version control using GitHub  • Public speaking and presentation