Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Experience in Analysis, Agile methodology, Development and Automation of complex software solutions. Upper Marlboro, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company - Dunwoody, GA November 2017 to May 2019 • Designing, documenting, and code reviewing Jenkins pipelines and assisting in GIT repository  management.  • Developing, refactoring, unit testing, debugging, mentoring, and utilizing Software Development Life  Cycle best practices to maintain new and existing code bases of software applications.  • Utilizing AWS IAM service to grant access to over 50 AWS services for companywide teams.  • Configured and Deployed Spring-based applications to consume REST API and SOAP services.  • Created web applications to provision access to 2,500+ users for systems sensitive to over $10 million of the company's assets. Provisioning removed need for outsourcing vendors. Scrum Master State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company - Dunwoody, GA October 2018 to April 2019 · Coordinated the work efforts of 12-person team and created team-building opportunities. Facilitated Daily Stand-Ups, Release Planning, Sprint Planning, Backlog Grooming, and Retrospective meetings Improved team velocity to the 20% below/above rule for 10+ sprints by incorporating capacity planning.  · Helped team complete tasks successfully and removed impediments and protected team members from interruptions and distractions to deliver the sprint goals and deliverables.   · Implemented Issues Tracking in Version One and GIT to effectively track impediments against user stories.  · Worked closely with Product Owners, coordinating product backlog grooming and story estimation.  Test Automation Developer State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company - Dunwoody, GA July 2016 to November 2017 • Automated software testing multiple types (Unit, Functional, Regression, Integration, Smoke, Black-box)  and monitored results by building and maintaining Jenkins jobs and pipelines. Each script added to a pipeline reduced 30 hours of manual work to 30 minutes.  • Developed on Agile teams using Test Driven Development, Behavior Driven Development, and J-Unit  processes.  • Helped streamline operations on a web application by creating test plans, documenting test cases, and communicating metrics to identify bottlenecks, status's, and changes. In 3 weeks, solved a documented  6-month bottleneck decoding logger statements.  • Provided support through troubleshooting and resolving issues, and auditing scripts in development and test environments for automation teams. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science North Carolina A & T State University - Greensboro, NC August 2012 to May 2016 Skills Git, Jenkins, Json, Python, Svn, Xml, Eclipse, Java, Spring, Html5, Soap, Junit, Selenium, Devops, Splunk, Maven, Sql, Microsoft Office, Excel, Test Automation, QA Certifications/Licenses Certified ScrumMaster (CSM) Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL)