Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Marlabs Inc Richmond, VA • Experienced Full Stack Java Developer in Software Development Life Cycle  including requirement analysis, design, coding, testing, debugging and maintenance.  • Worked in various domains from E-commerce, Retail, Banking and Finance  industries.  • Experienced in developing Microservices with Spring Boot, Spring REST, Spring  Cloud, Eureka, API-Gateway etc.  • Methodologies and MVC based frameworks like Struts 2, Spring 5, and Hibernate  4.  • Experienced in different web service architecture such as SOAP, REST, and SOA.  • Extensively worked on Spring and its related modules such as AOP, Spring MVC,  Spring Security, Spring Data and transaction management.  • Strong backend development experience in Java 8, J2EE, Servlet, JSP, JDBC,  Java Beans, JNDI, XML, JavaScript and JSON.  • Experience in developing batch service using Spring Batch, Java Message  Service.  • Experience with client-side web technologies/frameworks such as Angular,  Bootstrap 4, Node.js, jQuery, CSS, HTML5 and building the web application as a  MEAN stack.  • Experience in Database design, Entity relationships, Database analysis, Programming  SQL, Stored procedure's PL/ SQL, Packages and Triggers in Oracle and SQL Server  on Windows and UNIX.  • Good understanding of NoSQL Database and hands on experience in writing  application with Cassandra, MongoDB and Amazon DynamoDB.  • Experience in Behavior-Driven Development with JUnit and Mockito, adopted  Log4j and SLF4J for error logging and debugging.  • Experience in working with Version Control Tools on SVN, Bitbucket, GitHub and  GitLab.  • Experience developing messaging applications using framework like JMS, ActiveMQ,  Kafka & RabbitMQ.  • Designed and managed public/private cloud infrastructures using AWS Cloud  Watch which allowed automated operations.  • Experienced in build tools like Ant, Maven, Gradle and using them with Continuous  Integration tools like Jenkins to create and publish application artifacts running on  Docker with AWS EC2.  • Strong experience in Agile, Scrum, UML Methodologies, Test Data Driven.  • Extensive experience in multi-platform development, web development,  client/server application development, distributed application development and  database design.  • Highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently and adapt  quickly to new and emerging technologies as well as strong interpersonal and  organizational skills. Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Marlabs Inc - Piscataway, NJ April 2019 to Present Project: Promo Code Verification    TravelClick is the global provider of innovative, cloud-based and data-driven     Cell# 732-546-3198     solutions for hotels to maximize client's revenue. Our team is to migrate reservations and booking engine  web applications to microservices. Promotion Code Verification module is one of our room  reservation microservices which checks the promo code is verified by our central system for online-reservation. Once customers enter the promo code, they can get the discount price for the hotel reservation.    Responsibility:  • Developed a RESTful API with JSON which can be used by application across a system using Spring Boot and Spring Data.  • Designed in Middleware persistence framework with Hibernate/JPA for mapping  Java classes with database using Hibernate Query Language (HQL) and Named  Queries.  • Developed with microservices architecture using Spring Boot, Spring Data, Spring  Data REST and Spring Cloud.  • Used Spring Security to provide JWT (JSON Web Token) authentication, authorization and access-control features for Application.  • Involved in developing the UI, layout and front-end programming using JavaScript, Angular 7 and bootstrap 4.  • Worked on creating Angular 7 custom pipes to sort the history of various customers  through order of date, year and month, ng-For for display of the history of details in tables.  • Used Git for version control and IntelliJ IDE for development of the application.  • Implemented Amazon Web Services solutions using EC2, DynamoDB, Elastic Load  Balancer & Auto scaling groups.    Environment: Java 8, Spring Boot/Data, Spring Cloud, Spring Security, Hibernate, Angular  7, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap 4, Git, IntelliJ, Nginx Server, AWS EC2, Docker, AWS  S3, MySQL/AWS DynamoDB, Maven, AWS Elastic Beanstalk.    Project: Daily Care- Health Tracking System Pittsburgh, PA Full Stack Java Developer Daily Care- Health Tracking System - Pittsburgh, PA September 2018 to March 2019 It is a standalone web application that patients can use to monitor personal health. The  primary purpose is to digitize personal daily meals and exercising time. The user recorded  daily activities on this application. Besides, patients would set up the weekly goal, customize the goal and view whether they achieve this goal/task on this week. When they accomplish  the goal, it gives a reward to the patients. This application monitored patients the status of  health and generated the health report to patients.    Responsibility:  • Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using Spring Boot, Spring  Data with JPA and Spring Cloud.  • Implemented functionalities by Spring MVC Controllers, configured with Spring  annotations and configuration files.  • Configured Spring Security to grant permissions for different level resources and Implemented OAuth2 to verify authentication.  • Used Angular 5 to implement MVVM framework for Web application.  • Developed the Builder UI screens using Angular 5, Node JS, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript.  • Used Angular 5 http services for accessing content from REST web services, provided custom services to integrate database with view pages along with  pagination, sorting of data, deep linking (Angular 5 route service).  • Used SQL Server to import the data into and feed into web services and displayed it  onto the frontend page.  • Used Hibernate annotation to control data fetching and cascading type and batch  size to improve the data access performance.  • Configured Jenkins for project builds and continuous deployment.  • Experience in working with Version Control Tools on Git with Bitbucket.  • Tested RESTful design by using Postman and Used Integrated Testing and Unit  Testing with JUnit.  • Used Log4j technology for logging and used Maven as build tool for managing  dependencies.  • Designed, configured and unified development Environment by Docker and Nginx.  • Configured Jenkins for project build and deployment.  • Follow the Software Development Life Cycle and Agile methodology to develop  projects.  • Deployed infrastructure on AWS utilizing services such as EC2, ELB, Amazon RDS  and Elastic Beanstalk, AWS S3 and Cloud Watch Monitoring Management.  Environment: Java 8, Spring 5, Spring boot, Spring Data JPA, Spring MVC, Angular 5, Node.js, Hibernate, Agile, Intellij IDEA, Spring Tool Suite, Git, SQL, Maven, Jenkins, SQL  Server, Web services, Junit, AWS, EC2, Docker. Software Developer Retail Sales Analytics System - Pittsburgh, PA May 2018 to August 2018 Retail Sales Analytics System is a real-time streaming data pipeline for analyzing the sale  transactions. It established benchmark sales reports and developed new item adoption  tracking, sales reps can target their calls to the stores with the highest opportunity  potential. It generated real-time sales on the dashboard and then the marketing team  receives the analytic report from the data pipeline.    Responsibility:  • Designed and developed Business components and Integrated with Spring  MVC/Spring Data/Spring boot framework.  • Involved in development of Single-Page Application (SPA) using Model-view-view  model and Restful Services as a part of team project using Angular 5.  • Designed and developed various SQL Server/Oracle database simple and complex  Queries, SQL procedures, Stored Procedures, Trigger and Functions.  • Implement Kafka for both Producer and Consumer for messaging the sales  transaction.  • Tested RESTful design by using Postman.  • Developed and executed unit test cases using JUnit, and Mockito as mocking  framework for mocking data.  • Responsible to finish Jira Tickets assigned on time and update their status on regular  basis.  • Worked with AWS and utilized EC2 to deploy Docker containers onto the severs.  • Experience in working with Version Control Tools and GitLab on Git Command Line.  • Used Maven for building the application and deployed on Tomcat Server and continuous integration of the project using Jenkins.    Environment: Java 8, Spring 5, Spring boot, Angular 5, Hibernate, Agile, Oracle11g, Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite, Kafka, SVN, Git, SQL, Maven, Jenkins, SQL Server, Web services,  Junit, Amazon DynamoDB, EC2, Docker. Software Engineer DHL Express - Taipei, TW January 2017 to July 2017 Project: Customs Declaration Information System  This system customized over 40 clients' Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) services for customs clearance procedure. Moreover, it employed parsers to extract shipping and invoice  information from customs declaration forms resulted in double productivity for the process.  A Customs declaration is a form that lists the details of goods that are being imported or exported when a citizen or visitor enters a customs territory.  Responsibility:  • Played key role in the design and development of application using J2EE and Spring  Rest web service for Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Developed microservices using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring  AOP, Dependency Injection, Spring Security, Spring Batch, Spring  Transaction, Spring Actuator and JPA.  • Implemented J2EE design patterns such as Session Facade, Factory, DAO and DTO.  • Build REST web service by building Node.js Server in the back-end to handle  requests sent from the front-end jQuery Ajax calls.  • Utilized Angular 2 UI-bootstrap components like time picker, directives, model  pop-ups, ng-grid, router, progress bar, ng-Idle, ng-Upload.  • Created Angular 2 components like Controllers, Services, Routers, Injectors, Filters  and Forms.  • Involved in code review and documentation review of technical artifacts with JIRA.  • Experience in Java Messaging service (JMS) for reliable information exchange  across Java applications.  • Used Spring Batch to build the POJO-based development approach to access the Oracle 12c database using JDBC calls.  • Used SVN/Git as a Version control & source code management.    Environment: Java 8, J2EE, Spring/Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Hibernate  ORM, HTML5, Angular 2, jQuery, NodeJS, Java Script, Bootstrap, CSS, Ajax, JAX-RS, REST, JDBC, SQL Server, JIRA, SVN, Jenkins, JUnit, Tomcat, Windows Server, SOAP, Gradle,  Linux. Software Engineer Cathay Financial Group - Taipei, TW July 2014 to December 2016 Project: Marketing Management System  Developed and maintained internal e-commerce systems for Taiwan's national telecom  company and the largest financial company. This system is to improve internal workflow  efficiency by 40 percent in terms of hours, which included the function of operation to process massive marketing data. It also integrated product listing contents via RESTful web  services and tracked the order information for marketing purposes.    Responsibility:  • Developed several Spring REST web services which produces both XML and JSON  to perform tasks, leveraged by both web and mobile applications.  • Data Operations are performed using Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate and Implemented Hibernate Template and criteria API for querying database.  • Used Java/JEE Design patterns like MVC, Factory Method, Singleton, Data  Transfer Object (DTO), DAO.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using jQuery, JavaScript and Angular 2.  • Created Stored Procedures using SQL/PL-SQL for data modification.  • Implemented Spring Framework with JSP as View, Servlet as Controller and Java  Beans as Model to handle HTTP client requests.  • Developed programs to retrieve the data from Oracle 10c database using Mybatis/  iBATIS.  • Used IBM WebSphere Application Server and involved in setting up the application server profiles in Eclipse for running the application on development  environment.  • Developed Junit test cases for regression testing and integrated with Maven and Used Log4j for logging and debugging.    Environment: Java 8, J2EE, JSP, Spring Application Framework (Spring MVC, Spring ORM, Spring JDBC), MyBatis, JMS, HTML, XML, WebSphere Application Server, Maven, Git, Log4j,  Junit, JavaScript, Angular 2, jQuery, Oracle 11g, Linux. Software Developer Institute for Information Industry - Taipei, TW January 2014 to June 2014 Project: Administration Management System  Worked with Service Experience Engineering - Facilitate Innovation Integration team.  Analyzed the workflow of the department office and designed a web interactive system  which resulted in decreasing 30 percent costs of the paperwork and streamlined the workflow. Also, this development adopted contextual design to collect user data, interpret  key issues and test the web application.    Responsibility:  • Provided programming estimates, identified potential problems and recommended  alternative solutions.  • Worked on Integration of Spring and Hibernate Frameworks using Spring ORM  Module.  • Used spring dependency injection, annotations and Spring MVC components to implement business layer and navigation part of application.  • Used SOA Architecture to Develop SOAP Web services, generated WSDL and consume the services.  • Designed and develop web-based UI application using Struts 2 tiles frame work and used JSTL, Ajax, CSS, jQuery for the presentation layer.  • Developed the front-end user interfaces using JSP, JSF, JSTL, jQuery, Java script, AJAX, JSON, HTML, Angular JS and CSS  • Implemented the middle tier using EJB framework and configured IBM WebSphere  Server.  • Experienced in MyBatis and iBatis persistence framework to support SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures and Triggers and maintenance of data and JDBC for database  connectivity.    Environment: Java 7, Servlets, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, MyBatis, Spring/Spring MVC/Spring  Data, JPA, JDBC, HTML, XML, IBM WebSphere Server/Apache Tomcat, SQL Server, Git. Education Master's Skills ECLIPSE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, jQuery, TECHNICAL SKILLS: Language: Framework: Java 8/9, JavaScript, TypeScript, Python 3, Scala and R Spring 5, Spring Boot/MVC/Cloud/Data, Hibernate 5.4, MyBatis 3.5, Java EE 8, Django, Hadoop, Apache Kafka, and Apache Spark Web Technologies: Web Server: HTML5/CSS 3, Node.js, Angular 2/4/7, jQuery, JSP/Servlet, XML JSON and RESTful Apache 2, Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, Nginx, Windows Server, Linux, AWS EC2 Database: Other Techniques and Tools Oracle 11g, SQL Server, MySQL 5, PostgreSQL, Cassandra, MongoDB, Redis, AWS RDS, AWS DynamoDB Bash Script, Git, SVN, Jenkins, Junit, Maven, Gradle, Postman, Docker, Visual Studio Code, Sublime Text 3, Eclipse, and IntelliJ (5 years)