Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer To take up a Career, that offers me an opportunity to learn new technologies, puts me in a challenging environment, which will utilize my Technical, Problem Solving, Communication and Team Building Skills. Work Experience Developer T-Mobile October 2014 to June 2015 Team Size: 4  Environment: Java, Spring, JPA, Web Services, Weblogic, Eclipse and Oracle    Description:  The Equipment Installment Plan (EIP) is a payment option available for qualified new and existing customers on selected rate plans. This plan allows you to purchase a new phone or device by making monthly payments. To find out if you're eligible for EIP, and what your down payment and monthly installments will be and begin the upgrade process.    Roles & Responsibilities:  As a team member, my roles in this project are:  ? Written Spring Service Interfaces and their implementations.  ? Written Web Services classes.  ? Injected Spring Services into Controller classes.  ? Written Spring DAO's and their implementations with Hibernate.  ? Injected Spring DAO's into Spring Services.  ? Written Hibernate Components.  ? Handle production remedies and QC defects. Developer AT&T - US April 2014 to October 2014 Team Size: 4  Environment: Java, JSP, ATG, WebLogic, Eclipse and Oracle    Description:  AT&T, USA handles various sales and services of the products through internet. This is basically a B2B portal, which allows the customers and vendors to place or receive orders through internet. The application will provide different services to the users based on their privileges. Different users in this system are customers, vendors and AT&T Employees. This site provides both maintenance and order processing to the users. Maintenance modules are accessible to only ADMIN other functionalities like placing processing the orders can be done by the others based on their roles in the system.    Roles & Responsibilities:  As a team member, my roles in this project are:  ? Understanding the Architecture of application.  ? Writing code as per the functionality of application.  ? Designed Form Handler's as per the Requirement.  ? Implemented Input Validations.  ? Implemented Repository.  ? Handle production remedies and QC defects. software engineer TeemBinSys System Pvt LTD June 2011 to October 2014 Developer WestPac - AU April 2013 to March 2014 Team Size: 16.  Environment: Java, JSP, Spring(MVC), Hibernate, Oracle, Eclipse and Weblogic  Description:  HIS Application will be implemented as a product which will be useful various companies offering Health Insurance .Once Customer takes the Health Insurance, we can add all information about customer including personal, insurance details etc. Customer premium details will be stored in HIS and then will be tracked. When customer gets the health problem and joined in the hospital, then customer should collect all the bills and submit to Company. Later company people will verify the details whether it is correct or not and then enter the verification details into the HIS. Credit manager verifies and then sanctions the amount for customers.    Roles & Responsibilities:  As a team member, my roles in this project are:  ? Understanding the Architecture of application.  ? Understanding the functionality of application.  ? Designed JSP's as per the Requirement.  ? Implemented Controller Classes.  ? Implemented Commands and their Validations.  ? Written Spring Service Interfaces and their implementations.  ? Injected Spring Services into Controller classes.  ? Written Spring DAO's and their implementations with Hibernate.  ? Injected Spring DAO's into Spring Services.  ? Written Hibernate Components. VU-klip Video Store June 2011 to April 2012 Team Size: 13 members + in dedicate team for production issue (4).  Role: Software development level I1  Environment: Java, J2ee, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, MySQL, Eclipse.  Web Server: Tomcat 7.0  Description:  U-Klip video store is generic format of wave video store used for developing different type of mobile based video storage. It provides the flexible way to search and watch video of different packages, categories and channels in many languages. It serve three different phase video store, pay per use and video alert. The transaction coder is backend server that provides best quality and compressed data to user. Two type 'SUBSCRIPTION' and ONETIME billing supported by it. There is no own payment exchange server in Platform. It concern different carrier for billing and maintain the notification given by carrier based on that it allow for subscription.    Roles & Responsibilities:  As a team member, my roles in this project are:  ? Understanding the Architecture of application.  ? Understanding the functionality of application.  ? Designed JSP's as per the Requirement.  ? Implemented Action Classes.  ? Implemented Form Beans and their Validations.  ? Written Spring Service Interfaces and their implementations.  ? Injected Spring Services into Action Classes.  ? Written Spring DAO's and their implementations With Hibernate.  ? Injected Spring DAO's into Spring Services.  ? Written Hibernate Components.    Declaration:  I confirm that the information provided by me is true to the best my knowledge and belief. Education B. tech Rajasthan Technical University 2011 Additional Information Technical Profile:  ? Java Technologies: Java, JEE(JSP, Servlet), Collection Framework, Multithreading, Swings.  ? Frameworks: Spring 3.x(IOC, AOP, Transaction, Security, MVC), Hibernate 3.x, ATG.  ? Web Services: JAX-RS, SOAP.  ? Testing: JUnit, EasyMock, JMeter, STIQ.  ? Database: Oracle 11g, MySQL 5.5.  ? Server: WebLogic 10.  ? Repository: Maven.  ? Build: Jenkins  ? Subversion: SVN, AccuRev, Perforce.  ? Bug Reporting: Rally, QC, JIRA.  ? J2EE Technologies: J2EE(JDBC, Servlets, JSP).    ? Operating Systems: Windows 98/2000/XP.    Expertized In:  ? Java Technologies: Java, Collection Framework(Data structure and algorithm), Multithreading,  J2EE(JDBC, Servlets, JSP).  ? Frameworks: Spring 3.x(IOC, AOP, Transaction, Security, MVC), Hibernate 3.x, Struts.