Integration Developer Integration <span class="hl">Developer</span> Integration Developer - Veejay Associates Inc Seattle, WA Highly motivated, customer focused and result-oriented individual having 3.5 years of experience in design, development and production support for application integration in Dell Boomi, Java and Python.  • Extensive experience developing application integration using Dell Boomi.  • Experience designing and developing integrations with CRM and ERP applications, REST APIs and Web services.  • Extensive experience of diagnosing and troubleshooting application, configuration and network related customer issues.  • Expertise in full project life cycle development for implementation and integration using agile methodology.  • Experience in developing and/or maintaining enterprise applications.  • Experience working with a wide range of platforms including ServiceNow, Salesforce and Workday.  • In-depth knowledge of using variety of programming languages and databases on multiple platforms.  • Detailed understanding of AWS and best practices for cloud solutions using AWS.  • Experience working with Customers, Sales, Professional Services and Engineering teams.  • Experience creating and maintaining documents, knowledge base articles, logging bug tickets and tasks.  • Experience in coordinating and communicating with various teams and clients. Strong ability to work both independently as well as in teams. Possess excellent troubleshooting and time management skills. Work Experience Integration Developer Veejay Associates Inc - Seattle, WA 2019 to Present • Build integration solutions using Dell Boomi for automation of business processes for the client.  • Provide technical direction and assistance to the stakeholders to come up with an effective and optimized solution regarding their integration needs.  • Develop business use cases, design, solution and document integration processes varying in levels of complexity.  • Collaborated with different teams to build integrations with Zuora, Salesforce and Workday.  • Optimized the performance of long running processes from hours to minutes by adding parallel processing and fine tuning the data rules.  • Managed integration alerting system using ServiceNow and reduced the alerts from 100s a day to a very few. Software Developer Intern Veejay Associates Inc - Seattle, WA April 2018 to March 2019 • Worked as part of the production support team to provide support for Dell Boomi to multiple clients.  • Working directly with the strategic accounts to support their integration environments, process monitoring.  • Develop business use cases, design, implement and document integration processes varying in levels of complexity.  • Enhanced integration for web based applications using Web services APIs.  • Worked on highly critical issues for the customers using Amazon AWS and firewall configurations to setup the integration scenarios.  • Owned and delivered multiple reports for critical business needs during month/quarter end. Integration Engineer Virtuos Solutions - Gurgaon, Haryana January 2016 to August 2017 • Developed business processes for enterprise application integration (EAI) scenarios for our client using Dell Boomi.  • Designed and developed near real-time synchronous integrations using SOAP/REST APIs between client's customer facing website and internal applications such as Oracle RightNow CX CRM, WorkDay etc.  • Built error handling in the business processes and integrated with ServiceNow using APIs for automated alerting.  • Created test plan, performed end-to-end testing and production deployments on Boomi Atoms.  • Worked directly with the clients' integration requirements through analysis, and design, and provide technical direction and assistance to clients regarding their integration needs.  • Interacted with sales/partner leads and technical stakeholders to translate complex customer requirements into recommendations for solution architectures and consulting services.  • Created different integration scenarios for various environment setups including Salesforce, databases, ServiceNow.  • Working knowledge of a cloud enabled multi-tenant platform to easily connect any combination of cloud and on- premise application without a software.  • Work with customer technical leads, client executives, and partners to manage and deliver migrations to cloud solutions. Software Engineer Virtuos Solutions - Gurgaon, Haryana July 2015 to January 2016 Developed and supported an e-commerce platform for home services in Java using Spring MVC and AWS Services.  • Developed RESTful APIs for core backend functionalities such as user registration, service management, search service providers, checkout, promotions and referrals.  • Created data models and database structure for business entities in MySQL database.  • Integrated 3rd party services such as payment gateway, identity, chat and calendar services.  • Deployed the application on cloud AWS utilizing EC2, S3, RDS, SES, VPC, ELB, IAM and other services.  • Bulk on-boarded 80+ services, 200+ service providers using SQL which reduced onboarding time by 90%.  • Developed test plans and test cases and developed automated testing solutions for APIs.  • Participated in sprint planning, review and retrospective meetings.  • Provided technical production support and handled high severity incidents.  • Conducted product demo sessions, created technical documentation and training materials for client. Software Associate-Intern Wipro Technologies - Delhi, Delhi May 2014 to June 2014 Developed an application in Spring to ingest XML file, parse data and inserts into MySQL database using SAX parser and JAXB technology. Education Masters of Science in Computer Science Seattle University - Seattle, WA September 2017 to March 2019 Bachelors of Technology in Computer Science Amity University August 2011 to June 2015 Skills Mapping, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Application software, Groovy, Html, Javascript, Jenkins, Json, Python, Svn, Visio, Xml, Ec2, Workday, Css, Web services, Eclipse Certifications/Licenses Dell Boomi Associate Developer July 2019 to Present Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating Systems: Windows, Linux  Languages: HTML/ CSS, Java, Python, Groovy, JavaScript  Databases: Oracle, PL/SQL, MySQL  Application Software: MS-Office, Eclipse, SVN, GitHub, SQL Developer, Visio, Jenkins, VMware, Jira, Salesforce, Workday, ServiceNow  Integration Technologies: Dell Boomi, XML, JSON, REST APIs, Web Services, Mapping  AWS: EC2, RDS, SQS, SNS, VPC, IAM, ELB, Auto Scaling, Route53, S3