Java Developer Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Jersey City, NJ Actively seeking Full Time position that will allow me to explore career options in the IT sector.    TECHNOLOGY SUMMARY    Programming Languages Framework: Python, R. JAVA, SQL, UNIX, Linux.  Scripting Languages: Python, HTML, CSS, XML, JSON, YAML.  Frameworks: JDBC, Hibernate, RESTful web service, Spring.  Databases & Servers: MySQL, Oracle, Tomcat Apache.  Project Control Management and Build Machine: Maven, Jenkins.  Test Driven Development: JUnit, Mockito, Power Mockito.  IDE's: Eclipse, IntelliJ, SQL developer, JIRA, SVN, Git. Work Experience Java Developer Intaglio Solutions - Delhi, Delhi November 2017 to June 2018 Developed Window Based Inventory Control in JAVA using JFC-Swing and JDBC for L&T InfoTech as vendor of the project.  ? Developing new Functionality, Including both Back-End & Front-End Parts.  ? Developing Unit and Functional Test for the new Functionality.  Project:  Chevrolet Warehouse Inventory  Developed a utility to keep record of stocks of all the parts and material currently available in workshops and warehouses.  Technologies Used: Java, SQL, JDBC, SWT Software Developer Hermes IP Services Pvt. Ltd - Mohali, Punjab March 2015 to October 2017 Worked on projects for companies like American Express and Capital Group.  ? Implemented unit and system testing for the programs.  ? Followed Agile Development methodology with daily scrums and biweekly sprints.  Project:  Integration and development tool for American Express  Developed various inbound and outbound feeds that read data from files obtained via LDAP server on a regular basis and processed them based on client's security, authentication and other requirements. Also, developed internal feeds that acted as a middleware for inbound and outbound feeds.  Technologies Used: Java, Python, SQL, Restful web services, Shell Scripting using Unix.    Regulatory Report Generation application for Capital Group  Developed application for calculating numbers related to different attributes like Total Assets, Liabilities and Net Asset Value of separate accounts reported as part of Annual and quarterly regulatory reporting like Form PF.  Technologies Used: Java, SQL, Spring, REST services, Hibernate, Shell Scripting, Python. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Stevens Institute of Technology - Hoboken, NJ August 2018 to Present Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communication in Electronics and Communication Maharishi Dayanand University, Bharat Institute of Technology Sonipat - Sonipat, Haryana August 2010 to June 2014 Skills Java, Hibernate, J2Ee, Java J2Ee, Spring