Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Senior Software Engineer - Information Technology Engineering Corporation Denver, CO I am a well-rounded software developer with 5 years of experience. I have a clearance, and I have worked in many fields such as image analysis, network analysis, and web application development. Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Information Technology Engineering Corporation April 2018 to Present Developed a binary stream decoder to receive, process, and filter live data. Configured ActiveMQ servers to queue and distribute messages on-demand, with fail-over enabled to ensure the delivery of essential data.  ? Created a data access layer to store messages for historical and playback purposes. Configured Oracle databases with complex table structures and simple, fast data retrieval. Developed a simulator which replays historical data for unit testing.  ? Configured Tomcat servers with Public Key Infrastructure, user auditing, and Certificate Revocation Lists. Created a web application to query, filter, and analyze historical data.  ? Developed features for an essential graphical user interface, to be operated 24/7 by the customer.  ? Collaborated with team members and other project teams during the development and testing of software interfaces.  ? Practiced enterprise standards for configuration management, source control, and security for all software. Software Developer Vencore April 2016 to April 2018 Created analytics for large sets of network traffic data to allow administrators of critical missions to monitor system health and status. Designed metrics to measure accuracy of network mapping methods.  ? Proposed and implemented a total re-design of a multi-team data analysis project to be on-demand and scalable. Migrated into the cloud to increase processing power, reduce wait time, increase space, and simplify analytics.  ? Analyzed network traffic data to audit communication methods. Research resulted in hundreds of Computer Security Incident Reports across different projects due to unsecure network practices.  ? Designed and developed management tools for the IT organization resulting in several web application deployments. Utilized asynchronous frameworks and database optimizations to ensure interface responsiveness.  ? Developed the backend and frontend of a web application, using the MVC architecture pattern, in order to provide catered functionality and data access based on privilege levels.  ? Collaborated with team members to build packages to extract, transform, and load data sets consumed from cloud analytics, REST APIs, and database connections. Created and executed repeatable, ad-hoc data analysis using relational databases.  ? Administered several servers, keeping them up to date with enterprise security standards and ensuring continued operation. Software Developer Federal Government June 2015 to August 2015 Created a web tool for project activity report management. The tool will eventually be used by hundreds of developers and project managers within the Federal Government.  ? Led a small development team and experienced the entire project life cycle.  ? Learned several new programming languages, libraries, and software tools in a short period of time. Research Assistant University of Hawaii Department of Mathematics September 2014 to December 2014 Developed a program to analyze images of early brain development. Mapped the behavior of the newly discovered "fractone", which could revolutionize the world of biology. Worked with another developer to compare analysis to simulation.  ? Scripted 3D animations of theoretical space missions. Provided a visual presentation for a space mission proposal to NASA. Manipulated the source code of 3D animation software. Education Bachelors of Science in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering University of Hawaii at Manoa August 2016 Skills C#, C++, C, Java, SQL, PostgresSQL, MySQL, Pig, Javascript, HTML 5, CSS, Lua, Assembly, XML, Asp.Net, JQuery, AngularJS, Spring, Angular 5, Camel, Java Swing, IntelliJ, Netbeans, Visual Studio, Eclipse, SQLDeveloper, SQL Server Management Studio, SquirrelSQL, Matlab, Secure Shell, Git, CVS, Tomcat, Maven, ActiveMQ, Activiti, Confluence, Logicworks, Niagara Files, Nessus, Red Hat Linux, Windows, Linux, NET, Software Development Certifications/Licenses Security Clearance Top Secret (TS)/ Special Intelligence (SI)/ Talent Keyhole (TK) with an Agency Special Background Investigation (SBI) and Full-Scope Polygraph CompTIA Security+