Student Researcher Student Researcher Software Developer Chicago, IL My goal is to become associated with a company where I can utilize my skills and gain further experience while enhancing productivity of the company and reputation. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Student Researcher Illinois Institute of Technology May 2019 to Present         Responsible for implementing projects in the field of machine vision, Internet of Things, image/video processing, and embedded systems, and non-destructive evaluation. Developed and designed websites for IoT systems in the ECASP lab. Software Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2016 to July 2018 Developed a License tracking application that consists all the critical license data of the client created on .NET platform using ASP.NET, C#, MySQL, C/C++.  Administered multiple projects in ASP.NET, C#, and enhanced the UI experience using JavaScript, AJAX, and CSS.  Proven ability to work individually and in a team.  Analyzed business requirements and planning of deployments within the scheduled time. Analysis of complex reports, business documents, client requirements as a software developer in Cognizant.  Contact: Subhash Vulchakoti (+17815357308)  Partha Dinda (+919160384034)  PROJECTS: Harcourt Online Tracking System: Built and analysed requirements from the scratch, enhancements, fixing issues and performing unit testing on the modules developed. Also, analyzed reports consisting of complex calculations, application development, unit testing, Deployments using on-premise method, Bug Fixes, Project Tracking, and Data Modifications in more than 100 tables in the database. Used TFS to submit changes  Awarded with the "PAT on the back" award for outstanding performance among all the trainees in the project. The technologies used here were ASP.Net, VB.Net, SQL Server, JavaScript, and jQuery.  Passport Visa Management System: Designed a website that managed all the passport and visa information of the clients using ASP.Net, C#, SQL Server, JavaScript and jQuery. Analyzed reports consisting of complex calculations, application development, unit testing, Deployments using the on-premise method, Bug Fixes, Project Tracking, and Data Modifications in the database. Education Masters in Computer Engineering in IoT, Software development, Computer Engineering Illinois Institute of Technology - Chicago, IL August 2018 to Present Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical and Electronics in Electrical and Electronics BMS Institute of Technology - Bengaluru, Karnataka September 2012 to May 2016 Skills MySQL, Javascript, ASP, HTML 5, jQuery, Git, CSS, Vb.Net (2 years), Programming (2 years), Linux (2 years), C# (2 years) Links https://goo.gl/EZprqV