Job Seeker ? Total experience: 3.8 years in developing and deploying web-based, enterprise level client-server  applications  ? B.E(Electronics and telecommunications) from Pune University  ? Supporting Windows and Linux development environments in all phases of the development  lifecycle (SDLC).  ? Developing applications with Agile Scrum Software development models and using frameworks  and tools such as Spring etc    TECHNICAL ACQUAINTANCE:    ? Languages: Core Java 7/8, Spring  ? IDE & Tools: Eclipse, Intellij, Android Studio  ? Web Servers: Apache Tomcat  ? Build tools: Maven, Gradle  ? Web Development/Hybrid: HTML, JavaScript, CSS, AJAX, JQuery Work Experience Atmecs Technologies October 2015 to Present Senior Software Engineer Atmecs Technologies August 2018 to August 2018 Jetblue Native Booking - A website to book domestic and international flight  ? Description: VOX is a major product of J D Power.It is a platform to show surveys of customers' clients and their feedback. Its aim is to develop the most usable and effective  environment for all types of users e.g Customer as user, Customer as admin etc.  ? Technologies Used:  * Back End: Java core, Spring microservices  * Cache: Redis Senior Software Engineer - Back end developer Atmecs Technologies November 2016 to July 2018 vibhusinghvibha91@gmail.com |+91- 9515108832    Nov 16' - July18' Atmecs Technologies Software Engineer    ? VOX - A website having different surveys of the customers(Automobiles, Hotels etc)(Team  size 10)  ? Description: VOX is a major product of J D Power.It is a platform to show surveys of customers' clients and their feedback. Its aim is to develop the most usable and effective  environment for all types of users e.g Customer as user, Customer as admin etc.  ? Technologies Used:  * Back End: Java core, Spring,  * Content Management: Alfresco,  * Search Platform: Solr,  ? Role: Software Engineer - Back end developer. Engineer Atmecs Technologies March 2016 to November 2016 Falcon Mobile Automation Tool - A tool which can automate IOS/Android mobile  application.  ? Description: Falcon is a product of Atmecs Technologies.It is used to automate mobile  application.  ? Technologies Used:  * Core Language: Java  ? Role: Software Engineer - Complete 3 layer development of Mobile Automation on top of Appium Software Engineer Atmecs Technologies October 2015 to February 2016 OSM(Open Stack Mobile) - An application  ? Description: Open Stack Mobile is a product of Atmecs Technologies.  ? Technologies Used:  * Core Language:  ? Front End: HTML, js, AJAX, JQuery  ? Back End: Core Java  ? Role: Software Engineer Education Diploma in WIMC CDAC - Rani, RAJASTHAN, IN August 2015 B.E Pune University - Pune, MAHARASHTRA, IN 2014 Additional Information ? Operating Systems: Windows 7/8/10, Linux  ? Code Management: Git, Gitlab, Bitbucket  ? Search Platform: Solr, Elastic search  ? Integration Tool: Jenkins