Co-founder / System Architect / Developer Co-founder / System Architect / <span class="hl">Developer</span> Fairfield, IA Work Experience Co-founder / System Architect / Developer E-Katale - Kampala, Uganda February 2017 to Present Collaborated with team to design e-commerce application for online shopping. Developed database and service layer implementations. Implemented RESTful Web Services to create communication layer between the service layer and presentation layer. Wrote code for stored procedures and function for Data Access.  Technologies Used; MS SQL, ASP.net, MongoDB, AOP (Post Sharp), Git, JavaScript, Trello, JSP, REST Web Services, JSON, jQuery, Microsoft Unit Testing Tools, Azure Cloud Services.  ACADEMIC PROJECTS Co-founder / Engineer Cosmo Schools Platform - Kampala, Uganda July 2016 to Present 1. COSMO SCHOOLS PLATFORM (July 2016 - present):  A resource sharing platform to enable schools to share resources like homework, quizzes, mock exams, discussions, and solutions.  Co-founder / Engineer: Developed and implemented e-learning system to enable sharing of academic resources as part of a large team. Contributed towards frontend and back end development through designing database and implementing system architecture. Facilitated relationships between tables and wrote stored procedures functions, and triggers for data functions (CRUD) operations and logging. Created use cases for exam creation and scheduling. Established real-time asynchronous communication between teacher and student using SignalR and JavaScript.  Technologies Used: MS SQL, ASP.net, Git, JavaScript, JSP, JSON, jQuery, Microsoft Unit Testing Tools. Software Developer URISE HEALTH INFORMATICS FOUNDATION - Kampala, UG October 2017 to October 2018 Kampala, Uganda • October 2017- October 2018  A non-profit organization who specialize in improving health care service delivery. Worked in a team to come up with an app to be used by the health workers to register TB patients in hospitals.    Software Developer  Restructured existing open-source code from Open Source Smart Register Platform (OPENSRP) to integrate with Health Management Record System (OPENMRS) used widely by hospitals in Uganda.    Responsibilities:  • Developed mobile app (Uganda TBReach) for registering TB patients in Uganda using android and Java.  • Designed UI for TB Reach app along with the design and architecture team.  • Designed, developed and tested Server-side API using Spring REST, Hibernate, MySQL and NoSQL query through synchronizing data with a global Database used by a wide range of hospitals in Uganda.  • Designed the setup installation guide for Open Source Code used in the project called OpenSRP for the Windows platform.  • Wrote unit testing code using Junit 4 for server API on testing for user logins and patient registration.  • Integrated an external API for OpenMRS to access patient data using integration technologies like ActiveMQ.  • Acquired new skills in working with Git, CouchDB, and MySQL.    Technologies Used: Docker, ActiveMQ, CouchDB, MySQL, REST API, Maven, JUnit, Android. Software Developer UGANDA BUREAU OF STATISTICS, Uganda June 2015 to August 2017 June 2015 - August 2017  Uganda Bureau of Statistics is a government organization that is responsible for data collection, processing, and analysis of population census data.    Software Developer  Designed an employee time management system for tracking employee sign in and sign out through automating the sign sheet that was previously used, using .NET windows forms, SQL Database, and Bar Code Scanner Integration.    Tasks Performed:  • Reduced scanning time through using a card-based barcode scanning system rather than biometric to detect employee and implemented the integration of the card scanners with the registration system using C#.  • Developed an automatically startup windows service in the .NET environment using C# to asynchronously send scanned data to the central database system for review by the HR department.  • Implemented back end design with SQL stored procedures and functions on the database for writing logs, generating views and updating other relational tables in the database.  • Performed system tests using Microsoft Test framework to test the correlation between the time in and timeout of an individual to avoid clocking out of the system during sign in.  • Optimized data storage in the Database through Implementation of Hierarchical tables to store the geographical location of Census Data using T-SQL and tools like Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio.    Achievements:  • Created a prototype of an employee time management system.  • Extended to work with a more data-intensive project through the processing of National Housing and Population Census Data.  • Gained knowledge of new technologies in biometrics, image processing, and languages such as SQL Server, JavaScript, .NET forms, REST API, and MVC.    Technologies Used: SQL Server, ASP.NET (MVC), REST API. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in distance education The Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA June 2021 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Makerere University - Kampala, UG August 2013 to January 2018 Skills Java (3 years), JavaScript (1 year), .NET C# (3 years), SQL (3 years), AngularJs (1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/stevenkatabalwa