Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Hoffman Estates, IL Work Experience Software Developer GRAPECITY MONGOLIA LLC 2016 to 2018 • Developed and implemented Investment banking products using Angular and Java EE.  • Implemented and maintained Investment banking products on most of the Mongolian banks.  • Data migration from old system to new system  • Made a solution to identify trouble areas such as high time-consuming queries.  • Increased project efficiency by globalizing common scripts and functions, reducing code rewrites, and increasing code reuse.  • Worked on multiple development efforts simultaneously utilizing Agile SDLC  • Involved in all parts of the software development lifecycle including design, development, test, release, and support Software Developer INTERACTIVE LLC 2013 to 2015 • Designed and developed several software projects for different business domains using Symfony and Java EE  • Ensured timely completion of complex projects despite challenging deadlines.  • Data transfers across the cross-functional systems are carried out using web services utilizing encryptions and decryptions.  • Experience in different testing phases such as unit, functional, integration and user acceptance testing.  • Contributed to design, coding, testing, debugging, configuration and documentation.  • Online House Rental System, Maharishi University of Management(2018) - Web application for house rent using Java, SpringBoot, Thymeleaf and Restful Web service  • Product Delivery Framework, Maharishi University of Management(2018) - A framework that developers can use to implement the delivery of order made from a store. Used some design patterns in Java. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA 2018 to 2020 Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science Mongolian University of Science and Technology 2009 to 2013 Skills JAVA, SPRING, jQuery, JSP, SERVLET Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/guamaralvasili Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages: Java, JavaScript, XML, JSON  Web: Servlet, JSP, JQuery, HTML, CSS  Web Servers: Apache, Apache Tomcat  Web Services: Restful  Databases: Oracle, MYSQL  Frameworks: Java EE, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Bootstrap, Angular  Design patterns: Singleton, Factory, Observer 5+ more  SDLC: Agile/Scrum  Platforms: Ubuntu Linux, MacOS, Windows