Preschool Teacher Preschool Teacher Flower Mound, TX Self-motivated and dependable while achieving high performance with minimal supervision. Work Experience Preschool Teacher Primrose Schools - Lewisville, TX April 2019 to Present Maintained daily records of children's individual activities, behaviors, meals and naps.  • Developed lesson plans to teach course materials according to schedule.  • Observed children for signs of illness, injury, emotional disturbance, learning disorders and speech problems.  .Supervise other teacher duties and does front desk management. Preschool Teacher Joyous Montessori Lewisville - Lewisville, TX May 2018 to March 2019 • Maintained daily records of children's individual activities, behaviors, meals and naps.  • Developed lesson plans to teach course materials according to schedule.  • Observed children for signs of illness, injury, emotional disturbance, learning disorders and speech problems.  .Supervise other teacher duties and does front desk management. Software Developer Skytel Telecom Private Limited - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2011 to January 2013 KA  • Analyzed requirements and used systematic approaches to implement and document the tasks.  • Analyzed customers' needs and existing software components and processes  • Drafted technical documents, including whitepapers.  • Worked closely with other team members to identify and remediate bugs.  • Developed custom software solutions for clients. Application Analyst ARTHUR J GALLAGHER - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2009 to January 2010 KA  • Assist customers with issues in Windows7.  • 24/7 on-call rotations.  • Documented troubleshooting and problem resolution steps, including tracking identified defects. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering INFORMATION SCIENCE VISHWESHWARIAH TECHNICAL UNIVERSITY - Bengaluru, Karnataka 2010 Skills SQL, C#, C++, PHP, JAVA, Child care, Management, CPR, Organizational Skills, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Office, Teaching, Filing, training, Software Testing Assessments Administrative Assistant — Proficient August 2019 Using basic scheduling, attention to detail, and organizational skills in an office setting. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ehlwbvjaho-qf-kj Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS  • PHP, Java, SQL, C#, C and C++  • Selenium  • JIRA  • JENKINS  • MAVEN  • SOAPUI    • Technical Support