Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Graduated from State University of New York at Buffalo with Master’s degree in Data Science with 3 years of total work experience in developing data products. Currently working as Software Engineer with health care startup called Get Better Inc. Previously worked with Vistaar Systems for clients such as GE, Gerdau Steel, Ecolab and many more. As part of my master’s program I worked as Analytics Developer Intern with Quantworks Inc responsible for developing of NLP applications and data pipeline using open source to technologies. Proficient in Python, R, Machine Learning, AWS, Docker, Spark, SQL, ETL, JavaScript & more. San Francisco, CA Graduated from State University of New York at Buffalo with Master’s degree in Data Science with 3 years of total work experience in developing data products. Currently working as Software Engineer with health care startup called Get Better Inc. Previously worked with Vistaar Systems for clients such as GE, Gerdau Steel, Ecolab and many more. As part of my master’s program I worked as Analytics Developer Intern with Quantworks Inc responsible for developing of NLP applications and data pipeline using open source to technologies. Proficient in Python, R, Machine Learning, AWS, Docker, Spark, SQL, ETL, JavaScript & more. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Get Better Inc. - San Francisco, CA November 2018 to Present Python, Flask, PostgresSQL, RestAPI, AWS, SOLR, Forecasting  • Contributed to existing system improvement & code optimization.  • Designing & implementing new features enabling fast & easy data access and streamline workflows.  • Analysis & modelling of system data for user growth forecasting, incoming claims trend for growth engineering.  • Collaborated with CEO & CTO to find business insights using EDA and facilitate data driven business modelling.  • Key Accomplishment: Rest API for claims submission, System wide search implementation using SOLR, improved user workflow by 30%. Analytics Developer Intern Quantworks Inc. - Raleigh, NC May 2018 to Present • Development of Smart Abstractor Assistant for extracting key highlights from medical data in PDF format using NLP techniques.  • Research of negation detection algorithm in order to reduce false positives.  • Prototyping of Data Pipeline pipeline using Apache Airflow and integration with the Fanalytical system. Software Engineer Vistaar Systems - Mumbai, Maharashtra July 2015 to June 2017 • Responsible for analysis, designing and implementation of enhancements.  • Resolved customer issues by debugging and providing workarounds and defect fixes.  • Maintained the Price Science engine responsible for delivering target prices.  • Developed utilities to track the system state, usage, performance with report generation capabilities.  • Recommended and executed plans to improve the development and deployment processes.  • Key contributor in optimizing the performance of functional operations, ETL, migration of system and to demos  implementing customized requirements to the template.  • Collaborated for documentation and best practices template to be used by new joiner to project.  • Lead and mentor junior team of 3. Education Master of Engineering in Sciences University at Buffalo, The State University of New York September 2018 Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology Mumbai University July 2015 Skills C++ (1 year), CSS (2 years), Databases (3 years), Java (2 years), JavaScript (2 years), Python (1 year), Analytics (1 year), SQL Links http://linkedin.com/in/varadtupe http://github.com/varadtupe Additional Information Stack:  Programming Languages: Python, R, JavaScript, Shell Script, PL/SQL, Java, PHP, CSS, C++  Packages: NumPy, Pandas, Scikit-learn, Matplotlib, Seaborn, Folium, Plotly, Tensorflow, Keras, PySpark, NLTK, Word2Vec  Databases: Oracle, MySQL, MS-SQL, PostgreSQL, AWS Redshift  Operating Systems: RHEL, Windows OS, Mac OS, Ubuntu  Tools: Docker, AWS, Apache Airflow, Solr, Apache Lucene, Tableau, SVN, GitHub,GitLab, SQL Developer, Eclipse, MS Excel  Big Data: Hadoop, MapReduce, Hive, Pig, Spark  ML: Regression, Decision Trees, Random Forest, SVM, PCA, Neural Networks, NLP    LEADERSHIP EXPERIENCE AND HONORS  Sponsorship & Logistic Head, Annual college cultural and technical festival (2012-2015)  Mr. All Rounder, Department of Information Technology, BVCOE, 2015.