Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Collinsville, IL Passionate Software Developer, proficient in full-stack development, with 3 years of professional experience looking for more opportunities to build my knowledge and find a workplace that will help me grow my skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer EPC, Inc. - Saint Charles, MO March 2019 to Present Advanced from Junior to Mid-Level after first year. Earned  Employee Recognition of the month in July 2017. On a team of 5  software developers. Led a team to redesign main website.  Implemented new software feature to completely monitor all  inventory and shipments from and between seven warehouses.  Worked with team to fix day to day bugs and add new features to  Windows form application. Worked with team to upgrade Windows  form application to web application. Freelance January 2018 to Present Design websites and wedding stationary. Have built three websites and designed six party & weddings' stationary sets. Director of Marketing and Web Administration Cope Marine - O'Fallon, IL June 2018 to March 2019 Took all photos of items, boats, and cars to sell. Ran online stores and shipped all gear that sold (over 100 shipments a day). Ran website, Facebook, and Instagram. In charge of all marketing sales and events for two stores. Designed updated logos with information for website. Changed email platforms. Upgraded all computer systems and internet connections at both stores. Trained all service techs at two locations on software updates. Attended software seminar in AZ. Software Developer EPC, Inc. - Saint Charles, MO August 2016 to June 2018 Education Bachelor's in Computer Science University of Illinois - Springfield, IL June 2015 to December 2016 Skills Java, CSS, C#, HTML, JSON, Javascript, Perl, Unix Administration, SQL, IOS, Android, Crystal Reports, Windows, Wordpress, SQL Server Reporting Services, Asp.Net, MVC, Web Design, Web Forms, Windows Forms, Bootstrap, MYSQL, Git, HTML 5, JIRA, Jquery