Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Red Wing, MN Work Experience Software Developer Red Wing Shoe Company - Red Wing, MN December 2018 to Present • API development using .Net Core  • CI/CD using TFS Build and release pipeline to MS Azure.  • Integration development and unit testing  • MVC application development.  • Utilize Microsoft Azure Key Vault for sensitive information.  • Structure agile framework. Working in an Agile environment.  • Work closely with business analysts, developers and other team members throughout the software development lifecycle.  • Work independently across teams on different projects.  • Develop code per detailed specifications using specified programming languages, tools, and techniques under the direction of the project manager or team leader.  • Work in a dynamic, fast paced, high energy and high growth environment. Programmer/Analyst Application Support Red Wing Shoe Company - Red Wing, MN June 2017 to December 2018 • Work with experienced developers in an Agile environment  • Troubleshoot production issues and bugs.  • Create reports for the business using SQL queries.  • Work closely with finance team during year end for reporting and cleanup.  • Automate tasks. Desktop Support Red Wing Shoe Company - Red Wing, MN February 2017 to June 2017 • Deploy software to credit card readers for end to end encryption.  • Second level point of contact for troubleshooting end user issues.  • Building new machines.  • Support on site techs during new retail store point of sale setups.  • Configure new point of sale machines. Education AAS in Computer Programming & Web Development Minnesota State College Southeast Technical 2013 to 2016 Skills ASP, HTML 5, Javascript, Git, .NET, CSS, Java, SQL, SSIS, C#, Cloud Computing, Visual Studio, Microsoft, .net core, Azure Additional Information • Strong customer experience skills.  • Adept with all Microsoft environments.  • Eager to learn.  • API development using MuleSoft and C#.  • Database programming using SQL queries, creating SQL jobs, SSIS packages and stored procedures.  • .NET and .NET Core programming in C#.  • Complex problem solving.  • Web development using ASP.NET, JavaScript and Bootstrap