Associate software Engineer Associate <span class="hl">software</span> Engineer Work Experience Associate software Engineer August 2018 to Present Duration: 11 months - Present working    Project Description:  The project scope starts with the product development on Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Finance and Operations which includes developing of new features on the existing product, making the product compatible with the Microsoft monthly releases which include technical and functional changes. The new feature development is the inputs taken from customers who are using the product and the presales people get us the requirements and we develop the new functionality using the Agile methodology followed by testing, UAT, release activities, making sure the release is available through LCS. The same process is followed while releasing a monthly update of product which should be in line with Microsoft updates.    Contribution / Highlights:  • Understanding the business need thoroughly from the customer's view and start developing the new requirement from presales team  • Implementing the business logic required for achieving the customer's requirement.  • Implementing new Unit test cases or fixing the existing broken unit tests.  • Taking up and solving the performance bugs raised by the customers  • Cross verifying or validating the related scenarios so that they are not broken by the fix.  • Analysing the risk and impact of the development  • Getting the code reviews and sign-off by the TSA and code check-in into the branch  • Run the build in order to check if all the automation scripts are getting passed and bug free  • Fixing the bugs which are found in testing and UAT phase and checking these are priority bugs which need to be fixed in current release or next release  • Making sure if the branding, CAR reports, packing the models, reviewing the installation guide and all are done properly in order to release through LCS to external world.    Project 3: Microsoft Dynamics AX In-market engineering Team Associate software Engineer OSI Systems Present Increase  Duration: August 2018 - December 2018    Project Description:  OSI provides customers with scanning devices in the security sector. These devices are sold and maintained by OSI using Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Finance and Operations and want to introduce the design changes further to the product  As a part of adding the new changes I have implemented the functionality to update the functional location at the automatic creation of the object from the sales order, possibly a functional location field on the sales order, automatically create work orders for that object or multiple objects on the automatic creation from the sales order, Service Level Agreement (SLA) should be part of the service contract and shown on the work order, including notifications, response times, Ability to edit the Project Id on Contract during creation which is not editable by default in the product.  Contribution / Highlights:  • Understanding the design and requirements  • Implementing the business logic required for achieving the requirement.  • Unit testing.  • Bug Fixing  • Customizing the Classes, Tables, Forms Developer Microsoft Corporation August 2016 to August 2018 Duration: 2.4 Years - Present working    Project Description:  The project scope starts when the customer raises a bug which is specific to country region and the validity of the bug is discussed during triage calls and upon approval we investigate the root cause and the proposed fix and upon approval in code reviews of fix it is tested which includes the SRT (Smart regression Test) runs, check-ins, official test stages will be done one after another in order to deliver the hot fix to the customer within the SLA (Service Level Agreement).    Contribution / Highlights:  • Understanding the business need thoroughly from the customer's view and start investigating the root cause.  • Implementing the business logic required for achieving the customer's requirement.  • Implementing new Unit test cases or fixing the existing unit tests.  • Cross verifying or validating the related scenarios so that they are not broken by the fix.  • Analysing the risk and impact of the fix.  • Getting the code reviews and sign-off by the Microsoft developers.  • Check-in the fix into the source depot.    Project 4: Microsoft Dynamics AX Premium In-market engineering Team    Client: Microsoft Corporation  Role: Developer  Duration: 1 Year    Project Description:  The project scope starts when the customer raises a bug high priority which may be which is specific to country region and the validity of the bug is discussed during triage calls and upon approval we investigate the root cause and have to give the proposed fix and upon approval in code reviews of fix it is tested which includes the SRT (Smart regression Test) runs, check-ins, official test stages will be done one after another in order to deliver the hot fix to the customer within the SLA (Service Level Agreement) and the entire process has to be completed within 7 working days.    Contribution / Highlights:  • Understanding the business need thoroughly from the customer's view and start investigating the root cause.  • Implementing the business logic required for achieving the customer's requirement.  • Delivering the hotfix to the customer within the 7 working days. Performance Tester Microsoft Corporation 2012 to 2012 Team size: 2  Duration: 1 Year    Project Description: Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 to 2012 R2 and R3 from Performance standpoint. This project involves doing various Performance runs to find the glitches caused due to the enormous code check-ins going into the product, validating the code changes has caused the performance issue. Automating the new performance scripts, maintaining automated test cases if there are any functionality changes we modify the test cases as per the new code checked in, analysis of the performance deviations, logging performance and functional bugs and track them to closure.    Contribution / Highlights:  • Environment set-up and Test bed setup and build installations.  • Does sanity testing for the rollup builds and reports the issues with the detailed analysis.  • Carry out various performance runs (Trend and PDL runs).  • Analysis of Performance deviations in terms of Response times, RPC, SQL counts.  • Bug analysis and bug logging activities for the Performance issues with the regression details.  • Trained and ramped up new resources to work on the project.  • Automation for the Performance scripts using x++, C#, AX Proxies.  • Analysis for the Performance script failures.  • Executing the AX scenarios and Working with WTT tool.  • Maintaining the existing scripts and modify as per the new functional changes. Education B.Tech. in Electronics and communication Engineering Sri Krishnadevaraya University 2012 Board of Intermediate Education 2008 SSC Central Board of Secondary Education 2006 Additional Information SKILLS  • Microsoft Engineering Tools: VSO, Visual Studio Team foundation, GIT, SCRAM Scheduler, Source Depot, Trace parser, DMV.  • Programming languages: X++  • Database: MS SQL Server  • Applications: AX 2012 R2, R3, Dynamics 365