Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Texarkana, AR Experienced web developer/designer with multiple years of experience. Management professional. Competencies: PHP, MySQL, Laravel, HTML/CSS, JavaScript/jQuery/Vue.js, Linux server administration, Git repos. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer American Management Corporation - Conway, AR October 2018 to Present PHP development with the Laravel MVC framework  MySQL  HTML5  CSS3  JavaScript/Vue.js  Bootstrap 4/Material responsive design  Linux server administration  Project management  GIT version control Financial Service Representative Texar Federal Credit Union - Hooks, TX March 2018 to October 2018 Answer customers' questions, and explain available services such as deposit accounts, trusts, and securities.  Compile information about new accounts, enter account information into computers, and file related forms or other documents.  Inform customers of procedures for applying for services such as ATM cards, direct deposit of checks, and certificates of deposit.  Analyze applicants' financial status, credit, and property evaluations to determine feasibility of granting loans. Associate Manager Cracker Barrel - Texarkana, TX September 2017 to March 2018 Ensured food was at quality standards.  HACCP management/logging.  Resolved customer concerns/complaints. Increased customer satisfaction ratings. Store Manager Chick-fil-A - Texarkana, TX June 2016 to September 2017 Optimized restaurant processes to ensure high profitability and performance.    Motivated team members toward optimal individual task performance and motivated them to set and achieve personal on-site goals.    Tracked and ordered accurate inventory.    Scheduled team members to function optimally while operating the site at a fraction of the standard labor cost rate on a consistent basis.    Guided employees, through example and mentorship, to provide above-and-beyond service during challenging situations.    Demonstrated exceptional relationship-driven and people-oriented service and received frequent compliments from satisfied customers. Faculty Free Gospel Bible Institute - Export, PA April 2015 to June 2016 Taught and mentored college students in the art of communication and interaction.    Conducted financial analysis and implemented spending improvements for the establishment.    Efficiently managed the book work, banking, payroll and taxes of the multi-level organization.    Implemented an online student portal to improve grading accuracy and disciplinary efforts, as well as organization and efficiency in student-teacher relationships.    Established and guided student mentorship programs to encourage individuals in prison, a halfway house, and a nursing home. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Western Governors University - Salt Lake City, UT July 2019 to Present BS in Business Management Western Governors University - Salt Lake City, UT April 2016 to August 2017 Certificate in Theology Free Gospel Bible Institute - Export, PA August 2011 to May 2014 Skills Management (3 years), PHP, MySQL, Javascript, jQuery, HTML 5, Git, CSS Certifications/Licenses ServSafe Food Protection Manager August 2016 to August 2021 EPA 608 Universal June 2015 to Present CompTIA Project+ July 2016 to Present CompTIA A+ January 2019 to January 2022