Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Passionate to train. Chennai Work Experience Software Developer Sify Technologies Limited - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2016 to Present Working in latest technologies. Software Trainee Vayana india pvt ltd Worked in lot of latest technologies. Education B.E in Electrical & Electronics Engineering DMI College of Engineering (Anna University) Skills SpringBoot, Mongodb, Spring, Core Java, Soap Webservices, Python, Restful Webservices Additional Information Technical Skills:    ? Programming Languages: Java  ? J2EE Technology: Servlet and JDBC  ? Web Technologies: Thymeleaf, Webshim, HTML, JQuery  ? Web Server: Apache Tomcat  ? Frameworks: Spring and JPA  ? Web Services: SOAP  ? XML Technologies: XML  ? Version Control Systems: GIT and SVN  ? IDE'S: Eclipse, STS and GGTS  ? Tools: SQL Developer and Maven  ? Database: Oracle and MySQL    ? Operating Systems: Linux and Windows  Project:    Project: Internet Banking Application  Client: Bank of Bahrain and Kuwait  Role: Software Developer  Team size: 5  Technology: Java, Spring MVC, Thymeleaf, JPA, Hibernate and HTML5  Duration: June 2016 to till date.    Description:  Project implementation basically involves an upgrade of internet banking application to a Clayfin's new version of internet banking because older version was running on older technologies like Apache Struts. This involves a complete migration of all the functionalities on the older application to the newer version application.    Activities Performed & Skills:  ? Involved in day to day development work based on the change/business requirements provided by the business.  ? Developing test cases for unit-testing various modules.  ? Attending client calls on regular basis to discuss the requirements and understand the business flow.  ? Troubleshoot the SIT issues and resolve the problems.  ? Responsible for Module Implementation.  ? Developing business logic using Spring framework.  ? Developing user interface using HTML and Thymeleaf.  ? Involved in status meetings and design discussions.