Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - C Spire Ridgeland, MS Over 3 years of professional software development working on a middleware team in an  agile environment utilizing microservices and unit tests. Our services are either Tomcat  or Spring Boot running on Redhat VMs. Strengths include written and verbal  communication, and problem-solving capabilities. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer C Spire - Ridgeland, MS June 2016 to Present Designed, implemented, and maintained Java and Scala microservices that were  called over ten million times a year.  ? Worked an on-call rotation to ensure stability and customer satisfaction.  ? Worked on Java services to replace Oracle OSB and streamline changes to client facing APIs.  ? Experience creating multiple new applications in both Java and Scala while also working in legacy Java applications.  ? Extensive experience working and integrating with vendor APIs.  ? Responsible for working with the QA team for testing and deploying applications.  ? Work with data migration between multiple systems.  ? Experience in defect tracking using logs and Splunk.  ? Experience with Hibernate and Oracle SQL  ? Experience creating and using SOAP and Rest APIs that are OAuth protected  ? Creating technical documentation with Swagger.  ? Work with setting up Linux VMs for new services.  ? Experience with an F5 load balancer and Eureka.  ? Continuous integration experience using Jenkins and Ansible.  ? Development of Spring Boot applications with Akka HTTP.  ? Worked with Javascript and Materialize to create internal tools.  ? Experience with an Agile environment and providing demos to shareholders.  ? Responsible and experience with code reviews.  ? Hands on work with creating and connecting to ActiveMQ queues.  ? Hands on experience creating and working with Java and Scala caches.  ? Seen multiple projects from design to code complete to deployment to production Education Bachelors of Software Engineering in Software Engineering Mississippi State University May 2016 Skills Git, Javascript, Jenkins, Oauth, Java, Spring, Sql, Splunk, Soap, Bash, Scala, Rest, Eureka, Linux, Maven, Jira Additional Information Skills Highlight  ? Fluent with: Java, SQL, Scala, Rest & SOAP APIs, Jenkins, Linux, Git  ? Knowledgeable in: Javascript, Ansible, Maven, Spring Boot, Bash, OAuth  ? Tools: AppDynamics, Splunk, Eureka, JIRA, IntelliJ