Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - SS&C TECHNOLOGIES Waltham, MA Work Experience Software Developer SS&C TECHNOLOGIES - Waltham, MA December 2016 to Present Design, develop and testing of node.js based applications for the fund  management industry.  ? Full stack developer with experience in technologies such as Node.js, sql, mongodb.  ? Used Kubernetes command line tool(kubectl) to manage applications on kubernetes by inspecting and performing CRUD on the clusters.  ? Using Helm commands to deploy charts on the Kubernetes clusters.  ? Experience with designing the web UI with backbone.js.  ? Automated the end to end system tests using selenium, chai.js & mocha.js Software Developer Intern Intralinks INC - Waltham, MA June 2016 to November 2016 Developed and Maintained the Web UI using Angularjs (Version-1.3).  ? Interacted with various teams to create interfaces and services.  ? Developed RESTful API's for the application  ? Used task runners such as gulp.js for minification, optimization, cache  busting, unit testing etc. Electronic Notice Board May 2015 to August 2015 Electronic notice board displayed the updates about relevant coursework, events and assignments that students would have in a particular term. JSP  was used for front-end. Java was used for back-end. Entrpreneur.com August 2014 to December 2014 Knowledge of software engineering was used to understand the design  methodology in creating a website at a buildup stage. UML models such as use case diagrams, component diagram, and deployment diagram helped to  envision the future tasks and challenges that needed to be looked upon. Education MS in Software Engineering International Technological University May 2014 to September 2015 BS in Chemical Engineering Bharati Vidyapeeth College Of Engineering August 2007 to July 2012 Skills Git, Html, Angular.js, Node.js, Jenkins, MYSQL, Javascript, Jquery, HTML 5, CSS, ASP Links http://ww.linkedin.com/in/vjyotsna Additional Information SKILLS  ? Backbone.js, Node.js, Angular.js, SQL, MongoDB(basics)  ? RESTful, Kubernetes, Micro Services, Helm, kubectl(kubernetes command  line tool)  ? Agile development, Front End Development,  ? HTML, CSS, MongoDB, Chai.js, Mocha.js  ? Automation testing framework like Selenium  ? Development tools like GIT, JIRA Jenkins.