Deployment Engineer Deployment Engineer Seattle, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Deployment Engineer Azure Marketplace Deployments 2018 to Present Currently I'm managing testing and deployment for 3 Microsoft services (Appsource.com, AzureMarketplace.com, and Azure Marketplace Extension). Includes weekly deployments to prod environments, last-chance E2E testing, maintaining test coverage of new features and developing new deployment tools and pipelines. Primarily using Node.Js, Mocha, and Azure Pipelines (formerly VSTS or TFS). Software Developer Sonata Software 2014 to Present Contracted to Microsoft teams to development to create extensions for Microsoft Dynamics 365 or related web projects. Use knowledge of web UX principles to create cloud-based applications running on Azure, C#, and MVC including web UI, client-side code, server-side code, and SQL database. Twice recognized with the Sonata DNA award for commitment to maintaining the client's schedule.    Experience in testing and development with D365 Retail POS. Building extensions and testing in Finance module and Task Recorder. Development on Lifecycle Services and Business Process Modeler.    Projects with Microsoft Software Developer Azure Marketplace Deployments January 2018 to June 2018 Developed a custom tool that enabled UI tests in Dynamics AX to dynamically load environment data, enabling staging and production environments to run the same test steps and reducing the number of required test recordings by 50%. Our proof-of-concept test took an incoming Purchase Order, generated a Sales Order, and then completed a billing against that order.  Results were reported through the VSTS test run framework. This tool was written using C# and Windows forms and distributed as a stand-alone windows app and ¬¬distributed as .msi installable program in a closed beta. During the beta period, I supported this product as the sole technical contact for customer troubleshooting and configuration. Software Developer Microsoft Lifecycle Services 2015 to 2017 I developed features for web-based enterprise planning software. It helped users navigate a multi-thousand node tree of business actions that described the end-to-end process for some business activity, like developing a new product. My major contributions to this project included a system to asynchronously update a TFS server with any changes that users made to their customized tree, track Fit/Gap requirements, and notify the customer if any errors occurred while synchronizing the data. I completed this task using C# server code, JavaScript and AJAX to asynchronously notify the web server when an update was required, knowledge of tree structures, the TFS API, and HTML/CSS and ReactJS for the UI elements.  Another feature that I implemented allowed our customers to add extensible data to these nodes based on their unique business requirements. I implemented six new data types that customers could use with a view-mode and edit-mode UI for each one and a further option to differentiate by region and language. I achieved this using JSON format to store the data, AJAX to push changes to the server, HTML/CSS to design the UIs, C# and Entity Framework to save to the SQL database. Software Developer Microsoft Lifecycle Services August 2015 to December 2015 August-December 2015  I did development and testing for the Windows Tablet app for Point-of-Sale software for Microsoft Dynamics Retail. As a developer, I created responsive layouts for Stock Count, Inventory Lookup, and other scenarios using a HTML, CSS, and a responsive grid system similar to Bootstrap. I also programmed client-side validation to ensure that all parts of a transaction were complete before sending it to the server, and implemented a minor feature allowing stores to create or repair product bundles during Inventory. I completed this project using JavaScript, Typescript, and KnockOut.  I wrote and executed manual test plans and automated tests. Afterwards I investigated any failures to determine if they were caused by test bugs, project bugs, or configuration or execution failures, and logged the resulting bugs. Automated tests covered straightforward scenarios, while manual testing focused on complex scenarios with multiple interruptions, roles, and points of customer contact. Manual testing also included using cash drawers, barcode scanners, receipt printers and other peripherals. Education Certification Seattle Central Community College 2013 Bachelor's Degree in Technical writing Washington State University 2009 Skills .NET, VISUAL STUDIO, C#, DESIGN PATTERNS, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, NODE.JS, REACTJS, TYPESCRIPT, OBJECT-ORIENTED, OBJECT-ORIENTED PROGRAMMING, INTERFACE DESIGN, SQL SERVER, SQL, AJAX, CSS, HTML5, KNOCKOUT, MVC, MySQL, ASP, jQuery, PHP, HTML 5 Additional Information Skills Languages: C#, .NET, JavaScript, HTML/CSS, SQL, X++  Web development: C#, .NET, MVC, HTML5/CSS3, JavaScript (Node.Js, JQuery, AJAX, ReactJS, Typescript, Knockout, Mocha), Entity Framework, Azure, UX design  Software: Visual Studio, Command line environment, SQL Server Management Studio, Git, Source Depot, Microsoft Office, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator  Computer science: Data structures & algorithms, object-oriented programming, application & interface design, software design patterns, runtime optimization