Contract Software Developer Contract <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> C# Software Developer Salt Lake City, UT A software developer who spends a moderate amount of time on Skillshare learning Javascript and playing Sims 4. I can be found on twitter.com/dakotahreyes. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Contract Software Developer University of Chicago - Chicago, IL January 2019 to April 2019 Worked under the Biological Sciences Division Information Systems team on two solo projects along with having weekly meetings with the project manager. Implemented Active Directory account creation, email sending, and new user creation, for BSDIS Forms, an internal web service used to manage email and login information for new employees. Created a new MVC web internal service, Profiles Admin, used to manage faculty, staff information, and proxy access using basic CRUD operations with Entity Framework.  Used C#, ASP.NET 4.6.1, MVC 5.4.2, Entity Framework 6.2, Razor 3.2.4, HTML, CSS3, Active Directory, Visual Studio 2017, SQL Server Management Studio 2017, and Team Foundation Server. Software Developer Intern & Senior Software Developer Analyst Navitaire - Salt Lake City, UT January 2016 to September 2018 Worked as a full stack developer in 4 week sprints to help develop new features for Loyalty, a rewards system for low cost airlines, as well as maintained our system over the course of 10 releases.  Helped maintain our databases, as well as create new tables and stored procedures using SQL and SQL Server Management Studio.  Spearheaded our transition to a Swagger based version of our Loyalty web client.  Worked as the main developer in the U.S. as well as with a development and QA team in Manila.  Used C#, ASP.NET WinForms, Visual Studio 2012/2017, SQL Server Management Studio, T-SQL, Swagger, Postman, SCRUM Agile Framework, and Team Foundation Server. Education Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science Neumont College of Computer Science - Salt Lake City, UT December 2016 Skills Visual studio, C#, Html, Winforms, Object oriented, Sql server, Sql, Asp, Asp.net, T-sql, Mvc, Object oriented design Links http://twitter.com/dakotahreyes http://dakotahhh.github.io Additional Information Skills    Proficient in C#, ASP.NET, WinForms, Object Oriented Design, Visual Studio 2012/2017, Team Foundation Server, SQL Server Management Studio 2014/2017, SCRUM Agile Framework, and Google.  Moderate knowledge in T-SQL, Waterfall Methodology, MVC, Entity Framework, HTML, CSS3, and Postman.  Enjoys learning new things, failing, failing again, and eventually succeeding.