Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Audubon, PA • Astute professional offering about 3.1 years of experience in Android application development.  • Basic knowledge about Ionic (Hybrid application development).  • Proficiency in Android Application Development, Algorithm design.  • Expertise in Java and good knowledge in Kotlin with experience in phone camera, GPS and accelerometer. Possess a good  understanding of mobile handsets, browsers  • Experienced in coding, debugging, testing, deploying and supporting across the development of mobile applications for  Android. Work Experience Software Developer TORUS TECHONOLOGY PVT LTD September 2017 to September 2018 • Worked on Ionic in one application  • Working in team with discussions on problem solving and fixes  • Developing mobile applications for Android, testing the developed software and fixing bugs  • Responsible for software development from architecture to production, coordinating project schedules, architecture, design, build and release schedules to ensure timely delivery to internal and external customers  • Participating in the review meetings, supporting the customers on key issues and implementing applications  • Reporting on status of development, quality, operations and system performance to management. Software Developer LUCSON INFOTECH PVT LTD - Pune, Maharashtra December 2016 to August 2017 • Working in team with discussions on problem solving and fixes  • Developing mobile applications for Android, testing the developed software and fixing bugs  • Responsible for software development from architecture to production, coordinating project schedules, architecture, design, build and release schedules to ensure timely delivery to internal and external customers  • Participating in the review meetings, supporting the customers on key issues and implementing applications  • Reporting on status of development, quality, operations and system performance to management. Software Developer ULTRALIANT INFOTECH PVT LTD March 2015 to June 2016 CV Version Aug'2019]    • Developing mobile applications for Android, testing the developed software and fixing bugs  • Problem-solving and responding to client's requests, liaising with clients for requirement and delivery  • Responsible for software development from architecture to production, coordinating project schedules, architecture, design, build and release schedules to ensure timely delivery to internal and external customers  • Participating in the review meetings, supporting the customers on key issues and implementing applications  • Reporting on status of development, quality, operations and system performance to management.    Projects Handled  Title SmartGolfer (https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.smartgolfer)  Duration 10 Months  Language Kotlin  Team Size 2  Tools Used Android Studio  OS Platform Android 4.4 - Android O  Synopsis  This application is use for Golf sport purpose. User can edit his profile with crop the profile pic. In this golfer have his timeline in that  he can post images, videos etc., he can share that also with to others application or in app contacts. Search the other golfer, the user  can send request, accept request. In All deal section, user can post the Advert of any item in that payment Gateway. Golfer can  create game with date and time also create score card of golf game and they can also check the weather forecast of the golf course  he selected. He can chat with the in app contact member    Title E-Commerce (In house Application)  Duration 3 months 15 days  Language Java  Team Size 2  Tools Used Android Studio  OS Platform Android 4.4 - Android O  Synopsis  This application is use for shopping purpose. In that customer can see all deals for Women, men and kids wear, electronic  equipments etc. This application also have cart facility where user can add products in cart and purchase them easily. This  application is having PayPal integration.    Title The Recipe Book (In house Application)  Duration 30 days  Language JavaScript, HTML5  Team Size 1  Tools Used Visual Studio Code, Ionic Framework  OS Platform Android  Synopsis  In this application after login user can see all recipe list. After tapping any of the recipe then user can see its detail. User can also enter his own recipe after tapping on the add button.    Title PKSales (Enterprise Application)  Duration 5 months  Language Java  Team Size 2  Tools Used Android Studio    [CV Version Aug'2019]    OS Platform Android 4.4 - Android M  Synopsis  This application is use by the salesman where he can take the order from the application for the assign routes. Salesman will first  login into the application, he will see list of routes for which he needs to get order. After selecting the route he will see list of shops with their address in the list. After selecting the shop he will be displayed with list of categories of items on tapping of which he will list of items. On tapping of item he will see details and item type with quantity after which he can add to the cart.  After selecting all the items he can visit the cart where he can proceed to place the order for that shop.    Title LucsonInfotech (Internal application/ Demo application )  Duration 4 months  Team Size 2  Language Java  Tools Used Android Studio  OS Platform Android 4.4 - Android M  Synopsis This application provides information of all the projects developed by the company with their details and payment history. All clients also have the access to this application where they can login and see their projects with their status. Also it has paytm integration where client can do their payment directly from application.    Title Jai Jinendra (https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.ultraliant.brandcommunity.jaijinendra)  Duration 8 months  Language Java  Team Size 2  Tools Used Android Studio  OS Platform Android 2.3 - Android M  Synopsis Jai Jinendra is a community type application where all Jain people can download this app and get more closer to each other in terms of Help socially, Personally and professionally. User has option to see today's Panchang, Jain  News, Jain Calendar, Jain Tirth, Jain Knowledge, Audio / Video / Images of Jainism, Jain Recipes, Jain Professional    contacts, etc    Title Dharm Tirth (https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.ultraliant.brandcommunity.dharmtirth)  Duration 6 months  Team Size 2  Language Java  Tools Used Android Studio  OS Platform Android 2.3 - Android 5.0  Synopsis This application provides information of Dharm Tirth with their detail information about images, Events, etc.. Also  provides Videos, Books, News and Images about Dharm Tirth. Education B.E in Electronics & Telecommunications Solapur University 2013 English Maharashtra Board 2007 Skills Android, Html5, Android studio, Git, Javascript, Java Additional Information Technical Skills  Operating System Windows  Languages Java, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS  IDE Android Studio, Visual Studio Code  Tools SVN, Git.  Mobile Technology Android.