RPA Developer RPA <span class="hl">Developer</span> RPA Developer - Sentient Minds San Francisco, CA • 5 years of IT experience with hands-on development with JavaScript, LabVIEW, MATLAB, Unity, Languages like Java, Python, C++, C, Visual Studio Image and Video Processing.  • 1+year experience in RPA Development using platforms like UiPath and Automation Anywhere.  • RPA Certified Professional  • Use of RPA templates and good practices and Handling Business and Process Exceptions with RPA.  • Hands on experience with Bot Development  • Case management with RPA.  • Strong experience deploying robust, stable Automation Anywhere and UIPath automations using reusable workflows, MetaBots, Queues and Assets.  • RPA Integration with Web, Desktop, Citrix Applications and Imagerecognition.  • Understanding how to utilize RPA to filter, process and output web interfaces, html, xml.  • Strong experience managing the full life cycle of UiPath and Automation Anywhere Processes.  • Strong RPA Design skills.  • Proficient Skill gathering requirements, customer processes exploration and Business Analysis.  • Understanding on Business Impact, Risk management, Project Management, Agile Methodologies.  • ExperienceinHuman-Machine interfaces.  • Experience with C, using this language on local projects for embedded systems.  • Experience on C++, using this language on local projects for virtual reality applications. Work Experience RPA Developer Sentient Minds January 2018 to Present Project 1: Process transactions and report generation.  Role: RPA Developer    Environment:  UiPath, Orchestrator, C#, .NET, SQL server 2014, XML, HTML, JScript, CSS, Excel, Mail, PDF.    Description:  As a developer, I was completely involved in the full Software RPA life Cycle, from requirements gathering to automation deployment of various processes. The company wanted to automate some daily based processes that would strongly impact on their financial results like: Create Remittance Batch, the process gets information from a list, input data on the IS Enterprise Applications system and generate daily reports on company's transactions and also integrate reports and filter data for further email notifications.    Responsibilities:  ? Provide superior level of knowledge on the RPA platforms through all the lifecycle of the projects.  ? Provide advice, counsel and guide on the best practices and development techniques.  ? Bot Development  ? Analyze PDD and match with process owner description.  ? Simplify business processes.  ? Provide advice on development techniques.  ? Coding .Net functions for data manipulation.  ? Bot Debugging.  ? Support RPA solutions.  ? Integrate automation within the existing systems and business operations.  ? Monitor digital workforce to increase efficiency by reducingdown time.  ? Hands on software/tool training for RPA in best practices, procedures and techniques.  ? Create and maintain high quality solutions aligned with RPA's delivery methodology and standards, principles and best practice agreements.  ? Created flowchart and sequences according to UiPath best practices on bot development.  ? Provisioning of bots in UiPath orchestrator and scheduling them.  ? Used large number of activities in different workflows to suffice automation requirements.    Project 2: Currency calculation  Role: RPA Developer    Environment: AA Control Room 11, UiPath, Excel, Scraping, PDF integration, HTML.    Description:  Web currency scrapping, data base update, balance against American dollar calculation, email sending with every day data.    Responsibilities:  • Work on the Feasibility Analysis, Complexity Analysis, RoIand cost savings.  • Create and maintain, principles and best practice agreements.  • Created highly optimized reusable MetaBots in 70% of the processes.  • Provisioning of bots in or Automation Anywhere Control's room to process work items.  • Bot Development  • Use of large number of commands in different task bots to suffice automation requirements.  • Implement, and develop object and process libraries.  • Administration of 3 Bot Runners and 1 Bot Creator.  • Work closely with the RPA Delivery team including Project Managers, Business Analysts, Developers, Solution Designers and RobotControllers.  • Create and configure RPA Environment.  • Be part of the Design Authority Council to approve solutions. Software Developer Peasa Automotive November 2016 to January 2018 Project:Time Production  Environment: C, C++, OOP, STL, Multithreading, Linux/UNIX, Windows, MATLAB, LabVIEW, PLC, SolidWorks, Time calculation, Data Classification.  Description: Peasa automotive works with clients like BMW, Volkswagen, Honda. My duty. I was involved in the development of an improvement in the muffler line production. Improving the quality, quantity and production time in 100 pieces    • Analyzed server side infrastructure including function calls for memory management  • Find possible speed reducers.  • Create a system able to measure the speed and strength of different servo motors  • Development of Human-Machine interface for the supervisors  • Teaching the operators the correct use of the measurement devices  • Capture of the trajectory of the bending car.  • Troubleshooting and performance issues encountered by the trading technology largely through the development and implementation of enhanced sorting and searching algorithms and redesign of the rollout/deployment mechanism. Software Programmer Japay 2014 to November 2016 Project:Bill machines counting updating and improvement    Environment: MATLAB, CashDro environment, Magner environment, Cummins environment.    Description: Updating the machines of different companies with new bills, algorithm development for fake bills detection.    Responsibilities:  Algorithm development, new machines installation.  New bill measurements.  Client satisfaction.  Algorithm development.  New software update. Skills Visual studio, Arduino, C++, Python, Opencv, Matlab, Java, Labview, Solidworks, Ansys, Pcb Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • Operating System:Windows8,10  • RPA: UiPath, Automation Anywhere  • Programming Languages: Java, Python, C, C++.  • Project Methodology: Scrum  • Other tools: OpenCV, MATLAB, LabView, Latex, Atmel Studio, Multisim, Arduino, Visual Studio, PCB Wizard, Proteus, Unity, PLC, SolidWorks, ANSYS.