Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Association of American Medical Colleges Washington, DC Work Experience Software Developer Association of American Medical Colleges - Washington, DC November 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Design, Develop a single Page Application along with three modules using Angular 7, Material Angular  • Utilized angular routing for the navigation purpose.  • Implemented the forms in the application using the Reactive Forms for the generation of pdf.  • Consumed the REST APIs as a part of implementation of the services in order to display the data.  • Experience with the implementation of the state management using NgRx Store.  • Utilized Agile, SCRUM for process improvements.  • Experience using CI/CD tools such as Bamboo for the deployment.  • Utilized high Charts for the development of the Pie Charts, Donut graphs, Bar and Line Graphs.  • Involved in writing the Unit tests using Jasmine, Karma, Jest  • Involved in the fixing bugs in different testing phases.  • Involved in the development of the Cross Browser Compatible Web Application.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with Restful Web APIs, Web Services. Software Developer Tekforce Corp - San Ramon, CA June 2018 to November 2018 Responsibilities:  • Design, Develop, test internal assessment tool using Java, J2EE  • Used Spring MVC framework controllers for Controllers part of the MVC.  • Application was developed and designed using Spring Framework.  • Developed REST controllers using Spring Data REST to serve the UI with required JSON data.  • Defined required mappings in xml that are supported by MVC architecture and spring framework.  • Created the application Spring MVC for registering a new clients and configured it to connect to database. Student Assistant University of Bridgeport May 2017 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • Analyze, Design, develop, test internal application to generate pdf by using the angular forms for the special Events office.  • Detailed training on the consuming the REST services.  • Designing the layouts for the Login Page.  • Experience working with MySQL database.  • Exposure to the Spring MVC Framework. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Bridgeport - Bridgeport, CT May 2018 Skills Eclipse, Java, Spring, Mvc, Restful web services, Soap, Database, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Rest, Visual studio, Git, Html, Javascript, Typescript, Svn, Css, Web services, Configuration management, HTML 5, Jquery Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/srividya-r-73419018a Additional Information • Software Professional with 2+ years of goal oriented professional experience in design, developing and testing of Client/Server and Web Applications.  • Proficient in the development of Client/server and web applications using Angular7, Material Angular also Web technologies.  • Expertise in developing a Single Page Application using HTML, Flexbox, CSS, JavaScript, Angular 7, Material Angular, rxjs, Typescript.  • Experiencing the Unit Tests using Jasmine, Karma, Jest  • Experience in publishing and consuming Web Services (RESTful/SOAP).  • Experience in using JSON for implementing Web Services.  • Knowledge on databases like SQL Developer and MySQL.  • Expertise in developing web-based GUIs using Java Applets, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, XML, JSF.  • State Management of the application using NgRx store.  • Knowledge of SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) also worked with a mono-repository structure using GitLab  • Strong knowledge of IDE's Eclipse, Visual Studio Code application developer.  • Excellent team player with leadership abilities. Strong analytical skills with excellent interpersonal and communication skills with analytical ability and understanding of Organizational functioning.  • Worked with Angular, Typescript, SCSS, Jasmine, GIT, Bit Bucket, Source Tree and JIRA.  • Proficient in the development of Client/server and web applications using JAVA, J2EE and Web technologies for enterprise applications.  • Experience in using JSON, XML for implementing Web Services.  • Well versed with the implementation of the Object Oriented Programming, Multithreading, Error Handling.  • Expert in developing Object-Oriented Web applications using MVC architecture, Spring MVC  • Ability to write clear, well-documented, well-commented and efficient re-usable code for web development.  • Strong communication skills, well organized and ability to multitask around different tasks during Sprints.    TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Operating Systems Windows 10/8/7/XP/2000, UNIX, MAC  Languages/Web Technologies Angular7, Material Angular, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, TypeScript, rxjs, NgRx, Java, Spring MVC  Enterprise Technologies REST, RESTFUL Web services,   Database/Database Tools (RDBMS) Oracle 11g, MySQL, SQL Developer.  Configuration Management/Version control Tools Git, SVN  IDEs Eclipse, Visual Studio Code, Notepad++.