Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Independence, KY I am a Web Software Engineer at ReGadget, responsible for developing an Order  Management System using Node.js, Express, React, and MySQL. I also have experience  working as a programmer in a team environment on Unity projects including, 2D games,  3D games, and VR applications. Other skills include Mongo DB and other non-relational databases Work Experience Software Developer REGADGET - Florence, KY 2017 to Present Currently I work at ReGadget as a full-stack web developer. ReGadget is a small local e- commerce business that refurbishes and sells computers and tablets. I've been solely  tasked with developing a web-based order management system. The app is built from scratch using mySQL, express.js, node.js, JQuery, and React. I also set up the web server  hosting it, and have experience with Linux server and SSH. Software Developer Multiple Game Jams - Cincinnati, OH 2019 to 2019 I participated in the Global Game Jam 2019, Extra Credit Game Jam 3 and 4 where I worked both, by myself and with a teams of people on multiple projects within a short course of 48-100 hours. These projects are good for developing very efficient team communication and execution skills. I have experience setting up and using online task boards with deadlines as well as VCS such as git and managing repos with multiple team members working simultaneously. System Administrator PUTNAM COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT - Palatka, FL 2014 to 2017 I was a System Administrator of Apple devices for this school district. I was responsible for the provisioning, maintenance, and management of all apple devices within the 22 schools and admin locations in the county which included iPads, Macbooks, iMacs, and Apple OSX Servers. I was also initially tasked with the full integration of apple products into the windows AD environment. Skills Node.js (2 years), Express.js (2 years), JQuery (2 years), Unity (2 years), Web Development (2 years), System Administration (3 years), Linux (2 years), Cisco Network Devices (3 years), Mac OS X (5 years), Computer Repair (5 years), Servers (5 years), React.js (1 year), Node, React, Nodejs, Javascript, C# Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ May 2017 to May 2020