Associate Software Engineer Associate <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Associate Software Engineer Denver, CO Methodical Full Stack Software Engineer experienced in software development processes and optimal testing strategies. Help teams produce exceptional products by offering in-depth quality assurance support. Open and clear communicator with good multitasking skills, organized nature and strong attention to detail. Highly proficient in Java, JavaScript and Typescript programming languages for Mid-level or software engineer II positions Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Associate Software Engineer REI Systems - Sterling, VA November 2017 to June 2019 • Involved in attending Agile Scrum ceremonies where each task is planned, refined, implemented and released in demanding environment.  • Grantsolutions App - Implemented and deployed microservices for handling award process among grantors and grantees as Docker images using ReactJS, Spring Boot, Spring Data, Hibernate and bundled UI project using Webpack.  • Grantee Experience – Involved in developing, upgrading Grantee award handling process and migration of Grantee data to break down huge monolithic application to microservices using Clojure, ClojureScript, Datomic database within AWS, created functions in AWS Lambda and deployed it in AWS CodeDeploy.  • Exposed and consumed endpoints using REST and SOAP.  • Used Kinesis for data migration using Goldengate feature of Oracle to Datomic database.  • OTIP Project – Developed multiple solutions for handling trafficking cases for requests, reviewing cases and handling cases in .NET Core and Angular 7, deployed in AWS EC2 instances.  • Git and SVN are used as version control for different modules and integrated each module using Jenkins for CI/CD process.  • AWS SNS and AWS lambda is used to publish and subscribe notifications, email templates.  • Made sure code has been evaluated for 508 compliancy using Wave tool, unit testing using JUnit (Java apps), XUnit (.net apps), Jasmine and Karma (UI apps), and automation testing using Subject7 application.  • Used SonarQube and CodeDX for finding and solving code analysis and security vulnerabilities in application. Software Developer Xistance Inc - Raleigh, NC May 2017 to August 2017 • Designed, implemented and monitored web pages and sites for continuous improvement in fast-paced environment.  • Consulted with project manager and CEO regarding usuability of family tree feature by introduction of jsPlumb library for Angular  • Used Git as version control tool, gulp for project building and deployed project using Vagrant, docker and AWS EC2 instance  • Collaborated with developers and performance engineers to make sure UI code is in sync with backend. Software Engineer ImpetusIT - Walnut Creek, CA November 2016 to January 2017 Team Focus Insurance Group,Sarasota, FL (11/2016 - 01/2017)  • Collaborated with business analysts and testers in Scrum meetings and attended code reviews to ensure successful delivery of product.  • Involved in production defects by fixing and interacting with architectural team members on any modules  • Used Spring MVC for connecting controllers to endpoints using SOAP and REST  • Angular 1.6 and JSFs are used for developing forms, ruby on rails scripts were used for validating form validation and for missed data migrations in production defects  • Used MVC, Abstract Factory, Decorator and Business Delegate as best practices of design patterns  • Implemented unit testing for any different modules being designed in both front-end and back-end using Jasmine (karma as unit test runner) and Junit  • Deployed code using Docker, Jenkins as CI/CD port, Git and SVN as version control tools.  • Ran different solutions in IBM WebSphere Application Server 8.5 and Apache Tomcat 6.5  • Used DB2 as database Education Master's in Computer Science North Carolina A & T State University - Greensboro, NC August 2014 to December 2015 Bachelor's in Computer Science VIT University - Vellore, Tamil Nadu July 2009 to May 2013 Skills AWS (1 year), Java (3 years), Javascript (2 years), Linux (2 years), ReactJS (1 year), Spring Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/bhaskargogoi https://github.com/bhaskargogs