Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer New York, NY Work Experience Software Developer Bank Of America June 2018 to June 2019 Python developer for the Muni Bonds team in the main branch, worked to fix bugs and implement features on the trade agency desk application. Worked on both backend improvements and visual features, bugs, and  adjustments.  ? Designed and developed a messaging infrastructure, which trapped and processed thousands of messages a second. Also built a testing suite that was used to check for accuracy, stability, and speed. All done in multi  threaded python.  ? Built and deployed a server to allow messages to come through from the http, also designed and developed a javascript test to check for accuracy, speed, and reliability. Software Developer Securities Exchange Commision June 2017 to June 2018 Lead Python developer for the High Frequency Analysis Lab, a large framework of tools for the staging and analysis of financial data.  ? Built graphing backend that allows analysts to graph and display data in investigations currently in use by the federal government.  ? Built python extensions in C to translate objects in between three languages: Python, C, and q. This allows for for a kdb backend to a python programming environment. Analysts pull huge datatables from kdb with q, and then  use python to compute further data and display it in a jupyter environment. Freelance Software Developer Beeks Financial April 2017 to May 2017 Contractual work for Beeks financial on a Django application for managing VM's using javascript to manage most  active components.  ? Developed front and back end methods in python for using our api to systematically show comments in real time Software Developer VT Systems June 2016 to April 2017 Lead Developer on the Caxis team, designed to manage and sign up customers of a brokerage or forex.  ? Implemented automatic tracking system in javascript that allows for admins to attach a CRM automatically.  ? Improved affiliate system, which lets a user sign up under other users to copy their trades in exchange for a percentage of profits.  ? Lead Developer on the Caxis team, designed to manage and sign up customers of a brokerage or forex. Web Developer Monolith Solar 2016 to 2016 Made new website for energy corporations, improved page load times, improved SEO, boosted sales.  ? In charge of general IT and computer duties for the office, used Python to automate customer management tools.. Education B.S. in Computer Science in Computer Science State University of New York - New Paltz, NY December 2015 Skills PHP, MYSQL, HTML 5, Javascript, CSS, Git, Python (4 years) Links https://github.com/owenpercoco