Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer Denver, CO Work Experience Software Engineer Wireclass September 2018 to July 2019 Project: American Express SafeKey Wireclass September 2018 to July 2019 Platform: Spring FrameWork 3, Spring MVC, WebSphere 7.0, SVN, Visio, putty, RAD 7.5 IDE, Maven  The American Express SafeKey program ("SafeKey") is a Payer Authentication service that adds an extra layer of security when a participating Cardmembers shops online. SafeKey reduces unauthorized online use before it happens by validating the Cardmembers identity with an additional password or unique value.  The Safekey is a security system built to detect and stop the fraud online transactions. It allows the customers to shop with confidence. American Express Safekey provides added protection. It checks all the transactions performed via Safekey to prevent fraud. It provides additional security by asking the customer to enter the OTC (One Time Code) send to his mobile or email.  Responsibilities:  ? Requirement analysis along with preparation of design documents.  ? Designing and developing business logic in Spring Framework  ? Environment setup for project  ? Creating Maven build scripts  ? Done POC's on 3D secure protocol and parallel processing.  ? Implementation of project with integration of various internal and third party components into Application.  ? Involved in performance tuning  ? Documentation of project setup and design  ? Provided KT to new team members AA Software & Networking December 2017 to August 2018 Platform: Java 1.6, Oracle, Spring (Batch & Integration), Maven 2.7, Connect Direct, XSLT, Unix Script, Putty 0.6, Absolute NRL, XSLT    DML acts as a single point of integration between Global Markets Systems. It provides trade lifecycle event routing internally and externally, supporting all asset classes.  DML's aim is to improve STP, by enabling system integration, to elimination manual / dual keying in.  DML will eliminate/reduce the dependency on TREATS (Legacy Treasury system in HSBC) for all systems for Satellite sites - this also has a longer term benefit in that, it will eventually facilitate TREATS demised, while preserving the integrity of the interfaces to all systems. Thus reducing the amount of effort needed to replace TREATS.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed and implemented new feeds based on requirements.  ? Implemented complex ERDS project, which transfer data to 55 countries from Entity data source file.  ? Done POC on RestWebservice call to JDBC insert using Spring Batch.  ? Implemented complex XRates project, which transfer rest webservice call data to global sites via JDBC insert.  ? Created Maven archetypes for SSDML project models.  ? Designed and created XSLT for two complex xmls, covering multiple complex trade transformations.  ? Release feeds in Production environment using custom unix build scripts. Sofrware Engineer/ Developer AA Soft & Net October 2017 to August 2018 Project: Satellite Sites Data Management Layer (SSDML)  Client: HSBC Software Development India Pvt. Ltd. AA Soft & Net December 2016 to September 2017 Team Size: 25  Duration: Dec '16 - Sep'17  Platform: Spring FrameWork 3, Oracle, BEA WebLogic 10g, Argo UML, Clear Case, Visio, putty, VSS, Point Base Console, OSB, Eclipse IDE, , Oracle SOA Suite 11g, OSB, Oracle JDeveloper    RTM is a middle ware application which interacts with other internal and external applications of a large US Bank. It involves developing web services using Oracle Service Bus (10g3) and JAX-WS based on Weblogic platform using Spring framework. Oracle Service Bus (OSB) controls configuration, access and validation part, and rest of the Business Logic/connectivity to backend, lies in JAX-WS Web Services. The project involves requirements elaboration, design, build, testing, implementation and support.  Responsibilities:  ? Environment setup for project  ? Designing of Webservices.  ? Application development and maintainance.  ? Coding of Integration and business services  ? Writing JUnits with good code coverage  ? Design and development of IStubs for the services (Testing for services)  ? Provided KT to new team members software Developer BSNL December 2016 to September 2017 Project: Real Time Messaging (RTM)  Client: BSNL Education information and telecommunications University of Denver - Denver, CO 2017 B.E in electrical and communications engineering Vignan's University - Guntur, Andhra Pradesh 2015 Skills Bea, Eclipse, Java, Spring, Jsf, Jsp, Servlets, Hadoop, Svn, Xml, Xslt, Soa, Tomcat, Web logic, Websphere, Database, Db2, Mysql, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Javascript Additional Information SKILLS TOOLS  Languages JAVA, Scala, XML  Database DB2, Oracle 10g, MySQL, Postgres  Tools Oracle SOA suite 11g (BPEL PM), OSB, JUnit, PMD 3.0  Build and Configuration Management Clearcase, SVN, VSS, ANT, Maven, git  Technologies Servlets, JSP, ESB, BPEL, Webservices, SpringMVC, Spring Batch, Spring Integration, Hadoop Big Data, XML, XSLT  Application Servers BEA Web logic 10, WebSphere 7.0, Apache Tomcat  Frameworks JSF, Spring 3.0, hibernate, Spring Batch, Spring Integration  IDE Eclipse 3.x, JDeveloper, RAD 7.5, Intelj  Methodology Waterfall, Agile