Software Project Lead <span class="hl">Software</span> Project Lead Software Project Lead - Healthcare & Pharmaceutical Robbinsville, NJ Accomplished IT professional with excellent technical ability and a sound understanding of software debugging and testing. Having  nearly 5 years of experience with leading diamond client project of Accenture through all phases of the Software Development Life  Cycle and Software Testing Life Cycle. Good understanding of cloud architecture using AWS cloud, which helps in strategizing an  organization in transforming them to cloud platform. Exceptionally skilled at partnering with the business to deliver products that  provide value to the organization. Logical thinker proven to skillfully guided testing teams to deliver the right product in a cost-  effective manner. Well-honed communication skills within a global environment. Excellent interpersonal and communication skills,  leadership abilities and ability to maintain and develop client relationship. Work Experience Software Project Lead Healthcare & Pharmaceutical January 2018 to Present Responsibility:  • Work closely with business areas participating in all phases of projects, including ideation, data preparation, design, analytics, and communication.  • Independently developing dashboards and implementing innovative visualizations using Tableau Software.  • Enhance existing reporting/database solutions.  • Documentation of business rules and data transformation logic, which occurs in database at various data flow points along with failure points in current system design.  • Analysis of pain points in the current data architecture and active involvement in brainstorming sessions with development team  and architects in identifying the right solution.  • RFP presentation to Large Pharmaceuticals to Accenture understanding of program.  • Facilitate sprint planning, daily scrums, retrospectives, stakeholder meetings.  • Implemented Risk-Based testing model across critical business workflows.  • Created detailed project plans, QA strategy, QA Plan, and resource plan for complete program.  • Ramping up all architects and developers on project as having the SME knowledge of the overall system behavior.  • Overseeing Software Testing & Quality Engineering Department governance processes and integration with Application teams  • Develop short-term and long-term planning to maintain alignment with the client's current and future needs.  • Provide input and guidance in the development of the test data approach as appropriate. Lead Software Developer/ Software Engineer Accenture - Philadelphia, PA February 2015 to Present Software Development Analyst/ Software Development Senior Analyst Communication & Media February 2015 to December 2017 Project Name: Online Examination Portal  Technologies/Tools Used: JBOSS Developer, SQL Developer, J2EE, JDBC, Struts 2.0, Oracle 11g, JavaScript, HTML, Bootstrap, NetBeans  IDE, Apache Tomcat.  • Gathered functional requirement and prepared the high-level design document and did the impact analysis on the existing system.  • Implemented a query to fetch the group of candidates to be added to the list of eligible candidates for further processing.  • Designed the UI and database structure.  • Designed the backend implementation using J2EE with Struts framework.  • Used JDBC to connect and interact with Oracle 11g database.  • Used hashing and salting algorithm for securely storing the password in the database.  • Used JavaScript for user input validations.  • Used Apache Tomcat server to deploy the application.    Project Name: Mandatory Email Address in the Application.  Technologies/Tools Used: JBOSS Developer, SQL Developer, JAVA, LDAP Browser, JSP, JavaScript, Oracle 11g.  • Gathered functional requirement and prepared the high-level design document and did the impact analysis on the existing system.  • Prepared the Wireframe documentation pertaining to this new feature.  • Implemented the feature to make email address of a user mandatory in the application; for new as well as existing users.  • For new users, this feature was implemented by checking for invalid email address using JavaScript (regular expression validation).  • For existing users, this feature was implemented by validating the presence of email address in their profiles by using SQL queries  and redirecting them to a new JSP implementation to obtain their respective email address.  • The provided email address was updated in the database and in LDAP directory as well. Education MS in Data Science in Academic New Jersey Institute of Technology - Newark, NJ May 2019 Skills Jdbc, Mysql, Oracle, Postgresql, Sql, Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Java technologies, Spring, Jboss, Struts, Apache spark, Application server, Hadoop, Html, Javascript, Jenkins, Php, Python, Data Warehousing, MSSQL Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCY  Operating Systems: Windows 7/8.1/10, Linux  Programming Languages: Java, C, Python, PHP, R  Methodologies: V-Model, Water Fall Model and Agile  Tools: Apache Hadoop, AWS (EC2, IAM, S3, VPC, CloudWatch), MongoDB, Apache Spark, Jira, RapidMiner, Jenkins, WinSCP, Putty, SQL  Developer, JBOSS Developer Studio, SOAP UI, NetBeans, Eclipse, SVN, Notepad++, LDAP browser, ALM  Databases: Oracle 11g, MySQL, PostgreSQL  Web/Application Server: Apache Tomcat, JBossEAP 6.3, HTML, CSS, JavaScript  Java Technologies: J2EE, JDBC  Frameworks: Struts 2.0, Spring 3.0