Quality Assurance Intern Quality Assurance Intern Quality Assurance Intern - MARKED PRIVATE LLC • Have 2 years hands on experience in Manual, Automation testing with very good understanding of Software Development  Life Cycle (SDLC).  • 1+ year experience in software development dealing with Java, PHP, javascript.  • Well versed with STLC - Agile, Scrum methodologies  • Hands on Experience in preparation of Test cases and executing the same.  • Proficient in requirement validation, functional, integration.  • Expertise in Defect Life Cycle / Bug Life Cycle.  • Having good experience with Smoke testing, Sanity testing and Functional testing, end-to-end application testing.  • Knowledge in database testing on Manual techniques.  • Experience in Automating Web Application Testing using Selenium Web Driver with Java  • Familiar with Robot framework. Work Experience Quality Assurance Intern MARKED PRIVATE LLC - New York, NY June 2019 to Present • Building test scripts to be used for QA testing for mobile and web app testing.  • Utilizing the script to QA updated and new functionality in multiple environments.  • Report finding utilizing a tool called JIRA maintaining naming and organizational structures.  • Work with Development team to report findings and debug and retest.  • Respond to customer service issues in timely and helpful manner.  • Report tech issues and concern to development team utilizing JIRA.  • Organized, prepared, and executed manual and automatic mobile and web app tests  • Researched new Web development tools and procedures.  • Technology used included Atlassian JIRA Software, IOS, Android, Windows, Chrome, Safari and Firefox. Web Tester NEW YORK INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY - New York, NY December 2018 to April 2019 • Tested the few basic features manually of the new NYIT web application and provided the feedback to the school.  • Reported the bugs using JIRA.  • Execution: Performing testing on websites front end.  • Responsible for writing, monitoring, executing and evaluating application tests with testing tools and scripting languages.  +1 (201) 341-7211 jpate184@nyit.edu https://www.linkedin.com/in/jinalpatel01/ https://github.com/jinalpatel110 Software Engineer XTLYTICS BIG DATA FOR INSURANCE AND HEALTH CARE COMPANY - New York, NY April 2018 to September 2018 • Design, develop, and maintain the software application.  • Used elastic search to extract the data from the cloud.  • Implemented JSON files to deployed java code.  • Applied the object oriented programming and design Patterns while designing and developing the application.    ARVI COMPANY.INC Anand, INDIA Quality Assurance Analytics June 2016 to July 2017 June-2016 -July-2017  • Configured Robot Framework plus libraries for Selenium, API, database  • Created and run Selenium test automation script.  • Created a Selenium Web driver automation script  • Run/execute Robot Framework automated tests in many different ways, including from a command window, batch files, Jenkins, and Windows task scheduler.  • Working with user defined keywords to express your tests in business domain terms instead of cryptic Selenium Web driver code.  • Used the command line to execute Robot Framework test suites with greater control.  • Working with HTML Tags & Attributes, CSS, and Bootstrap.  • Data-driven testing and created the page object for the script. Software Developer ARVI COMPANY.INC - Anand, Gujarat May 2015 to June 2016 Designed and developed a web application that interacts with the user and fetches data from the database  itself to determine and display the relevant information and current trend going on in the market.  • The focus of the designing was front-end using HTML 3 as the framework and PHP for back-end development. Education Master of Science in Computer and Information Science New York Institute of Technology - New York, NY September 2017 to May 2019 Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology Gujarat Technological University - Gujarat, IN July 2012 to May 2016 Skills C++, Html, Javascript, Php, Python, Jira, Selenium, Testng, Html5, Database, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Java, Css, Apache, Linux, Unix, Testing tools, Automated testing tools Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jinalpatel01 https://github.com/jinalpatel110 Additional Information SKILLS  • Language: Java, Python, C++, PHP.  • Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript.  • Database: MySQL, Oracle.  • Testing types: Manual Testing, Automation testing and Database testing, Black Box testing, White Box testing  • Automated Testing Tools: Selenium, jenkin, Robot framework  • Windows App Automation Tools: Auto-IT  • Testing Framework: TestNG, Data Driven Testing by using Apache POI, Hybrid framework, Robot framework.  • Test Management Tools: ALM (Quality Center), JIRA-Scrum framework and kanban framework  • Programming Languages: Turbo C, Java, C++, python  • Web Technology: HTML, CSS  • Databases: My SQL  • Platform: Windows, Linux, Unix.