Test Automation Engineer Test Automation Engineer Test Automation Engineer - Webster Bank Raleigh-Durham, NC • QA Automation Test Engineer with 4+ years of extensive experience in testing web based and client/server applications.  • Experience in Automating web application testing using Selenium WebDriver with TestNG framework and Junit.  • Proven ability in designing and creating automation frameworks for J2EE based applications using Java, Junit/TestNG, Selenium WebDriver/RC/IDE, Maven, Jenkins, Quality center and SOAP UI.  • Experience Java Programming/Scripting, handling elements in selenium WebDriver (Hybrid, Data Driven, Keyword, Page Object Model).  • Experience in developing Java based library to read test data from xml & properties files using Junit/Selenium.  • Proficient in creating automation script from scratch. Extensive knowledge of developing different type of framework like Modular, Keyword driven, Data driven and Hybrid testing framework by using Junit/TestNG.  • Experience in testing web-based applications using Selenium Web Driver, Selenium RC and Selenium IDE.  • Experienced in providing the efficient locators strategy like XPath and CSS to run WebDriver script.  • Expertise in documenting defects with high level of detail, accuracy, and informative recreation steps using Quality Center, JIRA.  • Strong knowledge of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies such as Agile and waterfall.  • Extensive experience in Black Box Testing of applications and Working knowledge on various types of data feeds like XML, Oracle and Flat files  • Experience in testing both SOAP and REST services using SOAP UI, Postman and Tested both XML and JSON.  • Experience in object identification using various identification techniques like Locators, XPath, CSS Selector, CSS elements, Link text, Id, Name, Class name, Tag names, partial Link text, DOM and CSS using browser developer tools like Firebug to create scripts of automation  • Expertise in preparing Test Plans, Test Cases, Test Case Review, Test Case Execution, Automation Test scripts, Defect management, Defect Reports and Test reports.  • Extensively proficient in Functional testing, Performance testing, Integration testing, Parallel testing, Regression testing, Automation testing, Load testing, UAT testing and System testing. Work Experience Test Automation Engineer Webster Bank - Waterbury, CT August 2017 to Present • Build Automation framework along with the team and developed test suites using Selenium WebDriver (Maven, TestNG, Junit) for a Web Application.  • Worked in an Agile Software development methodology.  • Reviewed requirements, designed and documented Test Strategies, Test Plan, Test Cases & executed test cases.  • Writing & maintain Selenium WebDriver scripts for regression & functional testing using data driven framework.  • Developed test code in Java language using Eclipse IDE and TestNG framework.  • Involved in design and implementation of Selenium WebDriver automation framework for smoke and regression test suites (TestNG and Maven).  • Analyze test cases and functional specifications to determine the best approach for automating scripts.  • Selenium WebDriver to handle various web page controls like textbox, button, dropdown, checkbox, radio button, labels using XPath and other locators and Implemented object identification using locator technique.  • Performed web services testing using SOAP UI and wrote adaptors to test / invoke web services.  • Perform Data driven testing using Selenium WebDriver & TestNG functions to read data from property & XML files  • Created detailed reports using Extent Reports. Automation Developer John Hancock Financial Services - Boston, MA May 2016 to July 2017 • Designing automation test suites for regression testing using knowledge of java programming language and Selenium WebDriver.  • Involved in design and implementation of Selenium WebDriver automation framework for smoke and regression test suites (TestNG and Maven).Selenium WebDriver to handle various web page controls like textbox, button, dropdown, checkbox, radio button, labels using XPath and other locators and Implemented object identification using locator technique.  • Created automated functional regression test scripts using Selenium and scheduled, organized and executed the test scripts in integrate environment and documented the test results.  • Performed REST & SOAP web services testing using SOAP UI and wrote adaptors to test / invoke web services.  • Created detailed reports using Extent Reports.  • Logged the defects in JIRA for the issues encountered during execution.  • Performed Data driven testing using Selenium WebDriver & TestNG functions to read data from property files.  • Executed SQL queries on database tables to verify the front-end data with back end tables. Software Test Engineer Genuine Parts - Atlanta, GA January 2015 to April 2016 • Involved in development of test plans, test cases, test scenarios to facilitate the process of testing.  • Worked in an Agile Software development methodology.  • Reviewed Requirements, designed and documented Test Strategies, Test Plan, Test Cases & executed test cases.  • Executed SQL queries on database tables to verify the database.  • Logged the defects in JIRA for the issues encountered during execution. Hosted Defect Triage calls  • Performed Black Box Testing like Functional testing, Regression Testing, Integration Testing, Backend Testing and Smoke Testing of Application.  • Used to Publish Reports like Status reports, Defect Reports and Milestone Reports  • Coordinate with product development engineers to design all test plans, analyze all functional and non-functional requirements for testreview Test Reports.  • Involved in Manual testing using HP Quality center to develop test cases, executing scripts, and logging defects. Education Master's in Applied Electronics Engineering Anna University 2011 to 2014 Bachelor's in Electronics & Communication Engineering Anna University 2005 to 2009 Skills Qtp, Jira, Junit, Quick test, Quick test pro, Selenium, Selenium webdriver, Testng, Git, Html, Jenkins, Xml, Java, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Sql, Soap, Maven, Quality Assurance, QA, QA, Quality Assurance, Automate, Rest, Javascript, CSS, Eclipse Additional Information Technical Skills:  Testing Tools Selenium WebDriver/IDE/RC, Quick Test Pro (QTP), SOAP UI, XPath  Languages JAVA, Java Script, HTML, CSS, XML  Test Framework JUnit, TestNG, Data Driven, Keyword driven & Hybrid testing frameworks, Page Object Model  Build Tools Maven  Continuous Integration Jenkins  SDLC Methodologies Agile-Scrum, Waterfall  Bug Tracking Tools JIRA, Quality Center (QC)  Source Version Control Git  Databases SQL Server, Oracle 10g, MySQL  Operating Systems Windows (XP, Vista & 7, 8), UNIX