Property Manager Property Manager Property Manager Miami, FL To work in a professionally competent environment that will use my skills as a leasing agent to make a mark in the real estate sector. Work Experience Property Manager ABRI Properties LLC November 2018 to May 2019 Create and update leasing documentation for approved applicants.  ? Manage yearly service budget and negotiate contracts with construction, maintenance and utilities companies.  ? Collect rent and deposits from tenants via our electronic system.  ? Negotiated reduced rate with maintenance company, saving annually and decreasing average response time for tenant request. Leasing Agent Odin Property Group - Philadelphia, PA September 2015 to August 2018 Received customers cordially by greeting them and providing them with information on vacant properties available for rent.  ? Asked questions and held long discussions with the clients to assess their needs regarding properties.  ? Made sure all related forms were properly completed by the applicants - Assisted them in completing the process correctly.  ? Evaluated credit reports of clients to ensure whether they fall under the established guidelines for buying properties.  ? Conducted several background checks on the clients prior to signing any contract.  ? Resolved customer queries and doubts over the phone and in personal meetings.  ? Maintained and documented accurate records of new and existing customers for future business purposes.    Lockheed Martin, KOP, PA (Mondo) Software Developer JEMS June 2015 to June 2015 Project, a web based application.  ? Developing and maintaining a user friendly web based application used by the U.S Air Force Targeting Center.  ? Performed bug fixes, investigate and unit tests for better performance.  ? Developed multi-tier web applications utilizing C#, Microsoft Silverlight, SQL Server, ASP.NET, MVC, Entity Framework, Visual Studio, WCF, and Ozone Widget Framework  ? Managed software versioning using Microsoft Team Foundation Server.    ? Create system integration and test cases, system test strategy and methodology and make them traceable back to the system requirements and design documents.  ? Maintain a transparent and positive relationship with the customer. NewConfig LLC - Philadelphia, PA January 2013 to December 2013 Worked on the Developing and maintenance of a web-based application in ASP.NET that maintained information about applicants and clients based on their experience level, inventories and vendors as well as monitored employee's activity process  ? Conducted software debugging and unit tests.  ? Worked on company conversion to an automated Help Desk system  ? Worked on the improvements and simplicity of the structure of the support organization in order to move it to the proactive model so the industry-leading levels of customer satisfaction and operational effectiveness can be met. Education Political Science/Criminal Justice Temple University 2009 to 2012 Criminal Justice/Political Science Bucks County Community College 2007 to 2010 Skills ASP, CSS, DNS, ASP.NET, WEB SERVICES Additional Information SKILLS & LANGUAGES  ? Programming Languages: C#, C++, VB 3.0-6.0, ASP, ASP.NET, Java Script, JQuery, HTML, CSS, XML, SQL, T-SQL, Web Services  ? Operating Systems and Platforms: Red Hat Linux, Solaris, Windows, Mac OSx, Cisco IOS  ? Design and Documentation tools: NUnit, SolidWorks, AutoCAD, MATLAB, PRO/E, Office, Visio  ? Experimentation & Analysis tools: Wireshark / Ethereal, tcpdump, MathCAD.  ? Networking: VoIP, DNS, DHCP, IGMP, PIM, BGP, OSPF, RIP, LAN/WAN.  ? Languages: Greek (fluent), Albanian (fluent), Russian (conversational)