Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Customer Service Brockton, MA I am a self-motivated and detail-oriented individual. My paramount goal as a representative is to ensure customer satisfaction to help promote company success. I am a reliable and driven individual that has strong time management, multitasking, and prioritization abilities. I am trained and experienced in resolving user troubleshooting issues and providing expedite problem resolution. Work Experience Software Developer Cryptoliveleak - Brockton, MA May 2019 to Present Developing browser Ad-tech software using both PHP and JS. Cashier, Seasonal LOWE'S HOME IMPROVEMENT CENTER - Brockton, MA 2018 to Present Provided expedient service and the individualized customer support that is needed to help make a customer's house a home.    Key Results:  ? Provided customer support with excellent interpersonal communication  ? Performed cash handling  ? Knowledge of the Genesis POS system TECHNOLOGY ENABLED CLASSROOM ASSISTANT UNIVERSITY OF REDLANDS - Redlands, CA 2016 to 2016 Provided troubleshooting support to faculty and students, maintained university technical equipment, and aided with the production of community events.    Key Results:  ? Troubleshoot user issues via phone  ? Coordinated rental and return of university equipment  ? Maintained university computers, projectors, sound systems, and microphones  ? Cataloged service requests, maintenance performed, and equipment rental Recovery Specialist HIGHPOINT TREATMENT CENTER - Brockton, MA 2015 to 2016 Performed a key role in the rehabilitation of recovering patients; this includes safety checks, dispensing medication, escorting patients to medical appoints, and ensuring program compliance.    Key Results:  ? Prepared and completed administrative, issuance, and patient chart fillings  ? Aided medical personnel in high pressure situations  ? Performed clerical office work (performed data entry and operated phones, copiers, and faxes) Education Computer Technologies Information Management MASSASOIT COMMUNITY COLLEGE - Brockton, MA 2019 High School Diploma PUEBLOS HIGH SCHOOL - Goleta, CA 2014 Skills ORGANIZATIONAL SKILLS, PHONE SKILLS, Customer Service, Team Member, Javascript, Git Additional Information SKILLS  ? Phone skills and ability to operate office equipment  ? Great organizational skills  ? Can multitask well without sacrificing accuracy  ? Proficient in Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, and Powerpoint)  ? Proficient in several programming languages (Java, JS)