Data & Reporting Analyst Intern Data &amp; Reporting Analyst Intern Data & Reporting Analyst Intern - Advantix Solutions Dallas, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data & Reporting Analyst Intern Advantix Solutions - Dallas, TX January 2019 to Present • Analyzed huge amounts of data, prepared data for analysis, writing scripts, and contributing to the system by identifying opportunities for system and suggesting new ways to work with data.  • Summarized data into governance reports, savings report and sales report for the clients using Tableau, SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) and SSRS.  • Designed ad-hoc queries using T-SQL and designed ad-hoc reports in Visual Studio environment and MS Excel.  • Compiled data from Salesforce and created internal reports and useful visualizations for business growth.  • Provided monthly data analysis and optimization on usage data and ensure contract compliance Systems Engineer Infosys - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2016 to December 2017 • Contributed in Engineering Services Communication Products group on sustenance and maintenance of Ribbon Communications media gateway GSX-9000 and Session Border Controller (SBC)  • Handled GSX features development and bug fixing. Improved the functionality of the GSX by 20%  • Utilized knowledge of Linux, TCP/IP, SIP, NTP and VoIP to maintain functionality of the gateway  • Reported bugs in JIRA and followed up on them for solutions, also wrote and executed various test plans Software Developer Intern Infosys - Mysuru, Karnataka January 2016 to May 2016 • Trained in Python programming, Database Management using Oracle, Software Engineering.   • Specialized training on J2EE which included Network Fundamentals, Socket Programming, Developing Business, Presentation and Persistence Tier of Enterprise Application, JavaServer Pages, JavaServer Faces and Database Integration.  • Final training project on a building a rentals website, using concepts of J2EE, Java, JSF, Database Integration, Hibernate, Bootstrap and Primefaces.  • Excelled in the training (High Performer, <10% of the class).  • The internship honed my active learning, critical thinking and time management skills. Education Master's in Information Technology and Management The University of Texas at Dallas - Richardson, TX January 2018 to December 2019 Bachelor's in Computer Science and Engineering Chitkara University - Patiala, Punjab August 2012 to July 2016 Skills Sql server, Sql, Ssrs, Tableau, C/c++, C++, Git, Hadoop, Javascript, Python, Ruby, Scripting, Eclipse, Java, Hadoop, Jira, Shell scripting, Excel, SSRS (1 year) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/groverneeraj Assessments Data Analysis — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/lcihzfbvjmpoknx9 Problem Solving — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xfl29f7aupk3denl Market Research — Proficient August 2019 Analyzing data and using market research tools Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nj-fvv6zqp-yxbmk Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.