Research Data Analyst Research Data Analyst Graduate Student from University of Massachusetts Dartmouth New Bedford, MA Seeking an entry-level position as Data Analyst and Python Developer Work Experience Research Data Analyst University of Massachusetts Dartmouth - Dartmouth, MA September 2017 to May 2019 Researched and developed new techniques for GIS trajectory data cleaning process, where data contained multiple outliers, bad segments, time and distance gaps. Used python for data wrangling, pre-processing, visualization and outlier detection techniques.  ? Used statistical and mathematical concepts to build centered Z-Score technique on speed and perpendicular distance to detect and remove outliers. Contributed the new segmentation technique to break the trajectories and remove large time intervals gaps.  ? The results effectively represent the cleaned trajectory data, where these results were visualized through multiple line charts, graphs and mapbox-gl maps.  ? Created maps using Geojson (geometry) files to visualize a large amount of data  ? Used Python libraries and JavaScript (MapboxGL)  ? Link to the code: https://bit.ly/2EPtRGH and Presentation: https://bit.ly/2WzR5Lb    Datasets: Applied these proposed techniques on two different datasets, these datasets are "Vessels Traffic Data" which contains multiple vessels information and "Geo Life Trajectory Dataset" which contains taxi data SQL Developer CITS - University of Massachusetts Dartmouth - Dartmouth, MA September 2017 to May 2019 Worked on maintaining their database, related to inventory systems, and report designing on the daily basis.  ? Monitored and tuned the database resources and activities for SQL Server Database  ? Gathered requirements and converted it into SQL Stored Procedures for specific tasks and modules  ? Designed, developed and maintained relational database  ? Optimized existing Procedures and functions  ? Developed new Processes to facilitate import and normalization, including data files  ? Build and maintain SQL Scripts, indexes and complex queries for Data Analysis and extraction Project New York City Bikes February 2017 to May 2017 Worked on some interesting questions to obtain insights from the data through effective visualizations  ? Data obtained from NewYorkCityBikes webpage, which required the data preprocessing like data cleaning, filtering and merging, etc.  ? Visualized and analyzed some important trends and fact about the bike rides based on their station locations traffic analysis based on different times of the day, bikes rides based on the ages, and trends dependent on number of rides and weather  ? Used R to preprocess the data, JavaScript (D3.js) and Leaflet for the map library  ? Link to the demo, code, preprocessed data and report: https://bit.ly/2LLTHkP Project ERP System - Home Garden Shopping February 2016 to May 2016 Designed and developed an ERP System where user can order online different gardening tools  ? Used multiple CURD operations, online requests and order systems, viewing items and their descriptions  ? Used PHP and MySQL with different JavaScript functions Software Developer Bank Al Habib Limited Karachi March 2014 to December 2015 Worked on different banking modules such as account opening, banking requests and authentications for the higher-level approvals, and other multiple modules using C# MVC 4 framework with SQL server database management queries, procedures and multiple script writing.  ? Build SQL queries, created tables, views, pivot tables and stored procedures.  ? Integrated SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) tool, built SSRS reports through SQL Procedures, complex queries, and performed business calculations to generate monthly and yearly banking reports with large amount of data    (Professional Experience - Continued)    ? Worked on Microsoft Team Foundation Service tool embedded with Visual Studio for bugs reporting and resolving  ? Practiced agile methodology for software performance and quality assessment  ? Resolved multiple bugs in the system for the quality of the system    Internship  PHP Developer PHP Developer - Intership Pakistan Telecommunication Limited June 2012 to August 2012 Built a module for the IP-Core services to record and access different IP and sub-netting information. Migrated multiple excel sheets to MySQL database, and used PHP to build and design their internal webpage for Create, update, Read and Delete CURD operations.  ? Developed a web based internal system to put their data at one place, for querying easily  ? Built a dashboard which supports insert, update, search, report generation facilities  ? Completed the assignments of calculation of sub-netting Education Master's in Computer and Information Science University of Massachusetts - Dartmouth, MA May 2019 Master's in Computer and Information Science St. Mary University - San Antonio, TX January 2016 to May 2016 Bachelor's in Computer Science Shaheed Zulifkar Ali Bhutto Institute of Science and Technology - Karachi, PK May 2013 Skills VISUAL STUDIO, C#, JAVASCRIPT, D3.JS, PYTHON, SQL, HTML, SAP, Visio, Business Intelligence, Excel Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/raviladhar https://github.com/raviladhar