Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Nutley, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer KPMG - Montvale, NJ January 2018 to Present Helped create new features for a react native app for IOS and Android. That had multiple AWS services integrated in.   Designed and implemented a chat bot in Java and nodeJS that interfaces skype, sharepoint, and an IOS application. Communicates with IBM Watson, Automation servers and more api systems.  Designed, implemented and scaled microservices based on user demand. Integrated third party systems and APIs.  Built cognitive learning systems to determine what a user request and runs the process requested.   Developed nodeJS and javascript backend applications for internal and external systems.  Developed POCs ranging from machine learning projects to simple rest API services. Software Developer Intern CNBC - Englewood Cliffs, NJ January 2017 to August 2017 • Developed nodeJS and javascript backend applications for the  Amazon Alexa and the Google Assistant.  • Developed new features and expanded on existing features in the CNBC Alexa Skill and the CNBC Google Action.  • Created a full unit and integration level testing platform using Mocha and Chai for Alexa and Google Assistant code bases.   • Integrated Amazon AWS, DynamoDB and more technologies into Alexa and the Google Assistant. Freelance, Remote Freelancer.com May 2016 to January 2017 Freelance, Remote - Freelance Mobile Application and   Website Developer Application and Data Science Developer Co-op UPS - Wayne, NJ May 2016 to January 2017 Developed a Software Solution for a Data driven program in IBM Datastage, IBM Mainframe and Linux.  Created multiple Software Applications in C#, SQL, Unity 3d.  Helped create a software application to train workers and certify them, in a mobile platform for IOS and Android.  Created a Reconciliation process using ETL technologies and IBM Datastage, IBM MainFrame and Bash Education computer science New Jersey Institute of Technology - Newark, NJ 2013 to August 2018 Skills MySQL, Javascript, Git, HTML 5, Java, Nodejs, React native (1 year), CSS, Jquery Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/eric-palumbo-8a7a4964