Shift Manager Shift Manager Kent, OH I am a primarily self-taught programmer. I have been learning since I was 13, and I took some classes in high school. I am very comfortable with Windows and UNIX-based environments. I know a slew of languages and can quickly learn any new languages. I'm currently pursuing an online degree at Purdue University Global in IT with a concentration on Programming & Software Development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Shift Manager Jimmy John's Sandwiches - Hudson, OH August 2018 to January 2019 Delegated tasks, opened/closed/operated the store, food prep and handling, customer service Take Out Specialist Chipotle Mexican Grill - Barberton, OH May 2018 to June 2018 I was promoted to Take Out Specialist to aid in the opening of the new Chipotle. Crew Member Chipotle Mexican Grill - Hudson, OH May 2017 to May 2018 I learned all positions at this location and became eligible to be a potential manager. Software Developer Intern Health Design Plus - Hudson, OH November 2015 to May 2017 Developed back-end handling functions in golang, developed front-end web pages with functionality such as internal data management via database persistence, tested and vetted code, documented code. Education Pursuing BS in IT - Programming & Software Development Kent, OH July 2019 to Present Skills Programming (6 years), HTML 5 (3 years), Git (Less than 1 year), Javascript (6 years), MySQL (2 years), jQuery (Less than 1 year), CSS (2 years), C# (4 years), C++ (3 years), Java (1 year) Awards Visual Basic/C# Programming - Top Ten 2017-05 After placing 1st in regionals and 3rd in states in the Business Professionals of America 2016-2017 Visual Basic/C# Programming competition, I qualified to attend the national competition in Orlando, FL, where I placed in the top ten. Additional Information I began teaching myself programming at 13 years old. I have excelled in every class I have taken. I'm a very rapid learner and having excellent customer service skills. I am proficient at both customer-facing and non-customer-facing positions.