Software Development Team Lead <span class="hl">Software</span> Development Team Lead Software Development Team Lead - eSquared Communication Consulting BS Software Engineer with industry experience building back-end automation pipelines using Java, Persistence, RESTful web services  and more via middleware and microservices architecture. Work Experience Software Development Team Lead eSquared Communication Consulting - Tempe, AZ January 2019 to Present Software Developer eSquared Communication Consulting - Tempe, AZ August 2018 to January 2019 • Transitioned the development team from cowboy programming to Scrum-based team organization.  • Train and mentor Jr. developers on best practices and programming language knowledge and paradigms.  • Oversee and support a team of four software developers and manage the activities of two offsite developers.  • Coordinate development efforts between the business and the development team.  • Develop processes and procedures to increase visibility, transparency, communication, and continuous delivery.  • Develop software applications to facilitate automation and reduce waste.  • Analyze requirements and produce design documentation. Tech Stack Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company June 2018 to August 2018 Wrote WSDL file and Java program to help automate the identification of mismatches in a versioning xml file.  Personal Projects Ongoing  • Currently building a comprehensive in-home CCTV system. Tech Stack: Raspberry Pis, Python, iOS, REST, HTTP Software Developer Intern Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company - Tempe, AZ May 2018 to August 2018 • Worked on a team of 8 developers following agile practices with Scrum. Learned industry best practices and agile principles.  • Gained exposure to test automation using Jenkins and Ruby with Cucumber. Help Desk Supervisor eSquared Communication Consulting - Tempe, AZ May 2016 to May 2018 Managed two teams, totaling 27 employees, who supported high priority clients via phone and email including  troubleshooting and technical support, involving a wide range of known and unknown issues. Education Bachelor's in Software Engineering Arizona State University - Tempe, AZ July 2014 to May 2020 Skills C++, Docker, Git, Gradle, Javascript, Node.js, Typescript, Middleware, Object oriented, Object oriented programming, Orm, Python, Software development, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, Java, Hibernate, Mongodb, Tomcat, MSSQL, C Links http://linkedin.com/in/antonio-cypert Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming: Java, Python, JavaScript, C++, C  Tools/Frameworks: Node.js, Angular (Typescript), Hibernate ORM, Docker, Tomcat, Git, GitLab CI/CD, MongoDB, SQL Server,  MySQL, Build Tools (Maven, Gradle)  Other: Object Oriented Programming, RESTful APIs, Linux (Ubuntu, Debian, Fedora), Automated Systems, Middleware, Data  Structures and Algorithms, Agile Methodology and Scrum, Unit Testing and Testing Methodologies, Relational Databases, Operating  Systems, Software Design Principles, Software Development Lifecycle, Microservices Architecture, Requirements Analysis