Receptionist/Office Administrator Receptionist/Office Administrator Aurora, CO Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Receptionist/Office Administrator TRH Contracting, LLC. - Aurora, CO October 2018 to Present My role in this occupation involved answering phones, greet customers, help customers with questions they may have, perform transactions and refunds. Create an overall experience for the customer that is paramount that would keep them coming time and time again.    My ditties included:    Answering phone calls, greeting customers, answering questions, and redirecting customers calls to the appropriate party.    Answering emails, written communication, distributing packages and mail.    Intimate knowledge of billing system, Microsoft products (Word, Excel, Power Point, Outlook).    Overall, day to day office managing which includes: copying documents, faxing documents, typing documents, translating documents (spanish to english, vice versa).    · Operate telephone switchboard to answer, screen, or forward calls, providing information, taking messages, or scheduling appointments.  · Greet persons entering establishment, determine nature and purpose of visit, and direct or escort them to specific destinations.  · Transmit information or documents to customers, using computer, mail, or facsimile machine.  · Hear and resolve complaints from customers or the public.  · File and maintain records.  · Provide information about establishment, such as location of departments or offices, employees within the organization, or services provided.  · Collect, sort, distribute, or prepare mail, messages, or courier deliveries.  · Receive payment and record receipts for services.  · Schedule appointments and maintain and update appointment calendars.  · Take orders for merchandise or materials and send them to the proper departments to be filled.  · Resolve customer complaints regarding sales and service.  · Determine price schedules and discount rates.  · Review operational records and reports to project sales and determine profitability.  · Confer with potential customers regarding equipment needs and advise customers on types of equipment to purchase.  · Direct foreign sales and service outlets of an organization. Sales Representative Drop Education - Aurora, CO March 2017 to July 2018 As part of my duties for this position, I managed a portfolio of clients which consisted of a multitude of educational institutions from around the world.    My ditties included:    Answering phone calls, greeting customers, answering questions, and redirecting customers calls to the appropriate party.    Answering emails, written communication, distributing packages and mail.    Intimate knowledge of student information systems (sis) and learning management systems (lms). Knowledge of sis/lms includes: Jupiter SIS LMS, ActivInstruction, Alma, Infinite Campus, Jumprope.    Overall, day to day office managing which includes: copying documents, faxing documents, typing documents, translating documents (spanish to english, vice versa). Software Developer Drop Education - Aurora, CO March 2015 to March 2017 As part of this position, I worked on multiple software projects. These include: development of a students records cloud, billing platform, invoice building service, CDN system, video caching service, image manipulation service, document editing suite, digital signature platform, SMS platform, VoIP platform, messaging platform, file storage platform, managing of databases (including a global database, performing update queries, data storage enhancements, security enhancements, expanding database across multiple global location), cross-platform app development of: educational records management app, health records app, contractor billing app, payment facilitator app.    A majority of the software solutions were mostly built using: React, React Native, Javascript, PHP, Python, SQL, Swift, Java.    My participation in the development of these solutions ranged from front end development to backend server development and at times the development of APIs that allowed the transport of data between services, and communication between client systems and solution systems.    My participation in the development and management of SQL databases included: creating efficient SQL queries, updating database tables for efficiency and performance, running update queries, creating and setting up new databases, managing databases across multiple servers/systems, creating backups of databases, starting up databases from backups, troubleshooting database server outages, implementing industry-wide best practices, scheduling database maintenance and updates, implementing tools for managing database usage, securing databases from unauthorized access (external/internal). Education High school or equivalent William Smith High School - Aurora, CO August 2015 to May 2019 Skills Data Entry, Microsoft, Receptionist, Scheduling, Microsoft Word, Filing, Customer Service Skills, Payroll, Administrative Assistant, Word, Outlook, Accounts Payable, MS Office, Microsoft Excel, Quickbooks, Microsoft Office, SQL (4 years), PHP (4 years), Javascript (4 years), Python (4 years), accounting, Billing, Marketing, Excel Certifications/Licenses Notary Public November 2018 to November 2022 I currently hold a notarial license issued by the State of Colorado. Assessments Administrative Assistant — Highly Proficient July 2019 Using basic scheduling, attention to detail, and organizational skills in an office setting. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/wrgjtr0c3msvcypm Spreadsheets with Microsoft Excel — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate’s Microsoft Excel knowledge including common tools, PivotTables, conditional & nested formulas, and custom visuals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/y3-xuwe8q0b-0dcs Customer Focus & Orientation — Highly Proficient July 2019 Responding to customer situations with sensitivity. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/bdz6y-tdjwwvk2t0 Proficiency with Microsoft Office: Mail & Calendar (PC) — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate’s proficiency in using Microsoft Office Mail and Calendar tools to manage their workload. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/v1kuzqzxz7m5icpz Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.