QA Engineer QA Engineer Cloud Engineer Yorktown Heights, NY QA engineer with experience in development with Java, Selenium, C#/.NET, Python, in Linux and  Windows environments, AWS Cloud Infrastructure, Database Management in SQL Server and MySQL,  and Systems Administration Work Experience QA Engineer Thortech Solutions - White Plains, NY August 2016 to November 2018 Production Database, Infrastructure, and Security administration  ? Provision first working QA infrastructure environment in company history  ? Run client facing and internal simulations of the production Election Analysis System  while facilitating operations and support with clients  ? Database management, backup election night data, restoring new internal and client  facing databases, provision new election databases and related infrastructure  ? User management and security admin for production VPNs, Web, Database, AWS  ? Infrastructure management with AWS Cloudformation  ? Provisioning and Administration of Linux and Windows servers  ? Implement and monitor performance metrics using PagerDuty, DataDog, Splunk  ? Provision and maintain QA infrastructure, database and web servers  ? Consult with software engineers to resolve networking issues  ? Automated test development using Selenium, C#  ? Interim Scrum Master for 4 months  ? Create Test Plans for Performance, Disaster Recovery, and Regression tests  ? Experience with AWS: EC2, S3, RDS, ECS, CloudFormation Software Developer Newscycle Solutions - Bloomington, MN January 2015 to February 2016 Implementation of applications from given requirements specifications  ? Provision release infrastructure with Jenkins and AWS  ? Application coding in Java, unit test development with JUnit  ? Maintenance of existing modules and applications  ? Write test cases and participate in developer code review and testing Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Management Information Systems Villanova University - Villanova, PA 2014 Skills Quality Assurance, QA, Python, Java, Linux