Software developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Software developer Work Experience Software developer Medreview, NYJanuary 2018 to May 2019 • Played a developer role in developing an application, which acts as an interface between systems and the management vendor product. This interface is responsible for moving the data to the database that vendor product interacts with.  • Played a key role in migrating the legacy loaders in to strategic loaders, which is built completely on Java8 and spring.  • Developed an UI to perform UAT loads on all the servers. Arguments passed in from the UI will be used to execute a generic load script that I created. This helped us a lot in reducing the time we take to load the data into UAT servers and at the same time reduced the turnaround time for our users.  • Created a dashboard using Angular, which would plot a linear graph of batch load timings and load times based on the date parameters.  • Created a flat file comparison service which would compare the files row by row and if matched would compare the individual columns. Once the comparison is done it would give out a detailed report about matched and unmatched results. Made this tool available to the team members by creating an UI on top of it.  • Played a key role in many other infrastructure uplift projects, which resulted in efficient use of our resources and improved data availability to end-users.  • Involved in supporting all of our applications and worked extensively on support reduction.  • Worked on build and deployment tools like maven, Bit bucket, Git and Jenkins.    Environment: Java, JSP, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services, Angular, Ajax, JQuery, Shell Scripts, Stored Procedures.  Tools: Eclipse IDE, IntelliJ. Sr systems engineer Infosys ltd January 2015 to May 2015 Project Description:  Telstra Corporation Limited (known as Telstra) is Australia's largest telecommunications and Media Company which builds and operates telecommunications networks and markets voice, mobile, internet access, pay television and other entertainment products and services.  Responsibilities:  Involved in coding to handle the business logic, UI and Model Components.  • Worked with business and user groups to identify and implement functional enhancements and new requirements.  • Worked on Spring MVC framework using annotations  • Used J2EE design patterns and Data Access Object (DAO) for the business tier and integration Tier layer of the project  • Development of database interaction code to JDBC API making extensive use of SQL Query Statements and advanced prepared statement  • Involved in building and deploying MAVEN scripts, debugging through logging frameworks like log4j  • Worked mostly on developing backend services using Java, Spring MVC, Hibernate and also frontend javascript and JQuery  Environment: Core Java, Servlets, JSP, Junit, Maven, Spring MVC, Eclipse3.6, log4j, Java Script and JQuery, Agile methodology. eureQa October 2012 to January 2015 eureQa is a Cloud based product that makes regression testing easy by allowing a user to Automate software testing without the use of any programming languages. Create testing scenarios once and run it across multiple browsers and environments. Run tests from the Cloud without requiring any investment hardware, software and maintenance. Perform detailed analytics on test results to identify problem areas in their software and thus improve its quality.  Responsibilities:  • Worked in building an automation testing tool using JSF. Involved in developing several modules of the application where user can upload recorded selenium scripts to the application get the results in the user interface.  • Involved in integrating Jira component with the application using restful web services.  • Worked on integrating the selenium with the application in order to get the results of the uploaded scripts.  • Worked on Jasper Reports to show the user the results of the uploaded scripts.  • Worked on Customer signup and User authentication components.  • Technologies: JSF, JDBC, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax.  Environment: Restful web services, Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JSF, Junit, DHtmlxGrid, Eclipse3.6, log4j, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, and Maven. Education M.s in computer science in Management, Computer Networking Southern Arkansas State University - Magnolia, AR May 2019 B.tech in Electronics and communication Engineering JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2012 Skills ECLIPSE, JAVA, SPRING, JBOSS, JDK, jQuery, STRUTS, AJAX, CSS, TOMCAT, WEB SERVICES, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, SVN, PL/SQL, SQL, JIRA, SELENIUM, MAVEN Additional Information Technical Skills:  • Programming Languages: JAVA (JDK 1.6/1.7/1.8), PL/SQL.  • Frame Works: Struts, Spring.  • Web services: SOAP/WSDL, REST  • Frontend Languages: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular, JQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap.  • Testing & Build Tools: Selenium, Maven, Hudson  • Application/Web Servers: Jboss and Apache Tomcat.  • IDE/Application Tools: Eclipse, NetBeans, STS(Spring tool suite)  • Source Control: Sub Version (SVN), Bit Bucket.  • Testing tool: Selenium  • Bug tracking Tool: JIRA