Embedded Software Developer Embedded <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Embedded Software Developer - Abbott Laboratories Burlington, MA • 3+ years' experience in software analysis, design, development and implementation in C, C++, Device Driver  Development, multithreading programming.  • Strong in Object-Oriented Programming (OOP), Object Oriented Analysis, and Systems Developmental Life Cycle  (SDLC).  • Proficient with Data structures, Algorithms, Exception handling.  • Strong experience in version/configuration management tools - SVN, Git.  • Expertise in working with the communication protocols, SPI, I2C, UART.  • Knowledge and use of Agile Methodology.  • Experience in Firmware/System Testing, Unit & Integration Testing.  • Experience developing software in ThreadX RTOS.  • Experience on ARM based platforms/SoCs.  • Understanding of the Hardware and the HW schematic.  • Good understanding of hardware and coordinating with hardware engineers.  • Involved in Requirement Analysis, Design, Development and Unit Testing phases of SDLC. Work Experience Embedded Software Developer Abbott Laboratories April 2017 to Present • Design, development and maintenance of the embedded software following a software development plan guided by IEC 62304.  • Develop design documents and code implementation according to the requirements and architecture.  • Performed static analysis, debugging, unit tests/ integration tests using IAR workbench.  • Supported reviews held by other engineers on related projects and provided useful feedback.  • Developed automated unit tests using ceedling test framework (Unity, CMock).  • Experience with version control tools and working effectively in agile environment.  • Performed other related duties and responsibilities, as assigned. Embedded Software Intern Technospire LLC October 2016 to April 2017 • Design and development of application software using C/C++ on ThreadX platform.  • Writing abstraction layer device drivers by utilizing STM HAL Drivers, which include I2C driver.  • Participating in design and code review sessions. Graduate Assistant Texas Tech University, Lubbock - Tech, Texas, US June 2015 to May 2016 • Provided after class tutoring sessions to students who require assistance with coursework.  • Evaluated student's tests and homework, managed grades, online discussion boards and attendance using  blackboard management system. Embedded Software Engineer Intern Think Embedded Pvt. Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana 2013 to June 2014 • Undergone training on Software development process.  • Training on embedded Architecture and RTOS concepts.  • Code and unit test reviewing, bug fixing. Industrial Trainee Defence Electronics Research Laboratory - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2013 to May 2013 • Training in VHDL, FPGA, simulations in Xilinx.  • Successfully completed project work on real-time estimation of radar signal parameters using MATLAB, FPGA, Xilinx ISE and Chipscope pro. Education Masters of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering in Electrical and Computer Engineering Texas Tech University - Lubbock, TX May 2016 Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communication Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2009 to June 2013 Skills C/C++, C++, CORTEX, ANALYZER, OSCILLOSCOPE, Git Certifications/Licenses FE Electrical and Computer Present Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Computer Skills: C/C++, python.  Platform: Windows.  Software Tools: IAR Embedded Workbench, Saleae Logic Analyzer, Oscilloscope, Docklight.  Hardware: STM32L4 Cortex M4.