Electronics Engineer Electronics Engineer Bronx, NY Over 7 years of problem-solving skills and experience were acquired while developing software, web-apps, electronics, and exploring reverse engineering techniques. During the pursuit of my degree, my analytical, programming, and electronics development skills were further strengthened.  I enjoy learning new technologies through problem-solving; by creating applications and electronics that solve business inconveniences and problems. This has aided my ability to be involved in many roles during the development process -  programming, electronics design, security testing, setup, config and deployment of virtual machines and docker containers. Work Experience Electronics Engineer Sunny Group of Companies 2017 to Present Researched and Developed cost-effective solution for remotely monitoring 3000 slot machines further aided by the asset management system developed previously. Being solely involved at every stage of development - a wealth of electronics product development experience (following guidelines used by Texas Instruments) and research experience was obtained. This project optimizes how collectors are dispatched, when collecting in different bars throughout the country, saving 100s of working hours per month.    Reverse Engineered an existing product used for the management of casino machines. By collecting and processing large quantities of data via oscilloscope, the protocol was observed, discovered (SAS) and replicated. A wireless solution was engineered (including PCB design), improving upon the previous system being observed, allowing for the company to cost-effectively create their own hardware for managing and monitoring casino gaming equipment remotely. This saves the company over $100,000/month per casino owned, abandoning the need for relying on third-party solutions. This also provides the opportunity to compete against a new market. Radio Monitor 2017 to Present Through the use of SDR (HackRF), several radio stations can be monitored simultaneously. Their sounds are outputted into .wav files.  Through the use of audio-processing algorithms, certain phrases can be recognized to a certain degree of confidence. This will be used to identify something a client is searching for and provide the recording snippets or time-frames of the recorded station.  Technologies involved: GNU Radio, SDR, Python, Golang, HackRF Software Developer Sunny Group of Companies 2016 to Present Developed a slot machine/assets management system with a team of Software Developers. Version Control was professionally  adhered to and Agile design was practiced. This required working with Java, MongoDB and front-end technologies. Software Analyst HRplus Software Ltd 2015 to 2015 Delivered requirements in Scrum cycle process. Automated the development cycle, increasing productivity, performed computer  repairs and network maintenance. Alpha Software was learned on the job to continue their architecture of development and deploy- ment to Windows servers. Scrum design practices were followed strictly - where all programmers are micro-managed and tasks to  be completed daily. Intimate knowledge of SQL was required for the numerous tables, views, triggers & procedures that had to be  managed. Student - Video Conferencing Web Application - A+ - UWI Dr. Kim Mallalieu 2015 to 2015 Working with my final project Supervisor, Dr. Kim Mallalieu, a Video Quality Assessment framework was developed where quality was measured (implementing video comparison methods). A Web conferencing solution was developed to finely con-  trol different parameters in the video conference (such as the stream's throughput and codec) and this was then passed along to BVQM and CVQM modules to acquire objective quality as well as subjective quality (through user-polls).  Personally Developed Projects Education B.Sc. in Electrical and Computer Engineering University of the West Indies 2011 to 2015 Skills .net (3 years), Apache (6 years), Assembly (3 years), Auto cad (Less than 1 year), C# (3 years), C (7 years), Cad (Less than 1 year), deployment (6 years), Django (3 years), Electronics development (3 years), Falcon (Less than 1 year), Java (3 years), Lua (2 years), Pcb (4 years), Pcb design (4 years), Python (7 years), Selenium (1 year), Sql (1 year), Version control (3 years), Application development (Less than 1 year), Electrical Engineering, Oscilloscope, Embedded, Microcontrollers Links http://www.veydh.com Additional Information Technical Skills  Web Development Application Development Electronics Development  Django, Falcon, Flask, Spring Native C/C++, Java EAGLE (CAD) + PCB Design  JavaScript, JQuery, Golang, SQL Visual Studio C# (.NET) PIC, Atmel, ESP µcontrollers  NodeJS, Socket.IO, WebRTC Python, Lua, PowerShell Assembly (x86, PIC 16 & 18)    Workflow Software  Analysis Integrated Development Env Version Control / Deployment  Wireshark, Nmap, OllyDbg MPLAB, Xilinx, Arduino Git, TortoiseSVN  CelPlanner, HackRF, Htop Visual Studio, MATLAB Vagrant, Apache, Nginx  Multisim, PSpice Sublime, Selenium, GNURadio VirtualEnv, Debian/RedHat OS  Oscilloscopes, Multimeters IntelliJ, PyCharm VirtualBox