Software Development Contract <span class="hl">Software</span> Development Contract Full Stack Software Developer Cambridge, MA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Development Contract Yoh Staffing Services April 2019 to Present Worked through Yoh on a contract for Harvard Library's technical division.  ? Responsible for implementing front-end redesigns for Harvard's ArchivesSpace  ? Stack: Ruby on Rails, HTML, CSS, JavaScript Software Development Contract New England Money February 2019 to March 2019 Website overhaul, bringing the site from 90's standards to modern standards with responsive views  ? Full Stack Rails: Bootstrap 3.7 for frontend and Rails 5.2 for backend. Backend designed for modular  improvements if so desired.  ? Managed expectations and deadlines for the project Support Specialist Contract Maxwell Health October 2018 to December 2018 Troubleshoot errors and find bugs within the platform  ? Top performer in metrics for customer response time and customer satisfaction.  ? Provided excellent customer service to brokers across the country Customer Service Rep I Professional Audio Associates - Woburn, MA June 2018 to October 2018 Provided sales support for businesses with their audio/visual needs  ? Streamlined processes for QuickBooks  ? Made adjustments to the company's SQL database when large changes were required. Customer Service Rep I Beacon Health Options - Woburn, MA November 2017 to May 2018 Provided support to customers over the phone for varied issues including claims for providers.  ? Had a 95% quality average or better from January 2018-May 2018  ? Assisted other coworkers with workflow and educated usage of Outlook as well as web interfaces. Full Stack Software Developer Contract HaulHub - Sterling, MA July 2017 to September 2017 Worked with remote team to accomplish project goals for an upcoming Truck Dispatching software.  ? Used PostgreSQL to get an accurate inventory of live trucks performing jobs.  ? Designed and implemented views using the Bootstrap framework.  ? Stack: Ruby on Rails, PostgreSQL, HTML, CSS, JS, JQuery, BootStrap Principal Software Developer InMotion Systems - Northborough, MA December 2016 to April 2017 Took specifications from the CEO to create a new remote gaming website using Rails  ? Developed messaging, social functions, configured a non-native MySQL library to work with Rails  ? Used JavaScript and CSS to improve end-user experience and to decorate the site  ? Stack: Ruby on Rails, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JS, JQuery, BootStrap Software Developer Barbershop Labs - Natick, MA June 2015 to December 2015 Client facing company that helps create well designed Ruby on Rails web applications.  ? Created testing suites using RSpec and Capybara with a high level of code coverage  ? Greatly contributed in many projects with Ruby on Rails, JavaScript, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS, JQuery, and PostgreSQL.    ? Project Highlights Include  ? Purple Carrot: www.purplecarrot.com Assisted with the complete redesign of the website, with some design and CSS work, along with changing the back end order systems to a  subscription process  ? Independent Schools Association of the Southwest: Created a completely new accreditation  portal for over 40 schools, including creating a 200 question online form to bring ISAS into the digital age. Apprentice Ruby on Rails Developer Launch Academy - Boston, MA August 2014 to October 2014 Ten week intensive boot camp focused on Ruby on Rails. Gained practical knowledge of web  development in Rails in a collaborative and immersive learning environment. Learned technologies such as Ruby on Rails, Javascript, PostgreSQL, CSS, HTML, and the Foundation framework.  ? Developed applications in a team and individual setting and tested through TDD.  ? Utilized pair programming, code reviews, and Agile concepts during development.  ? Projects: southparkreviews.herokuapp.com (group) listr.herokuapp.com Education Computer Science Middlesex Community College - Lowell, MA January 2016 to May 2016 Computer Science University of Massachusetts Lowell - Lowell, MA September 2013 to May 2014 Skills ANDROID STUDIO, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, Ruby, Rails, Ruby on Rails, CSS, ANDROID, POSTGRESQL, SQL, JAVA, jQuery, React, Angular Links http://linkedin.com/in/JohnAllen117 http://github.com/JohnAllen117 http://JohnAllen117.tumblr.com Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages: Ruby, JavaScript, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS, JQuery, Java, C  Databases: SQL, PostgreSQL  Software/Tools: Ruby on Rails, Git, GitHub, Foundation, Bootstrap, Android Studio