Salesforce Developer/Admin Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Admin Salesforce Developer/Admin - CSCGLOBAL • Over 4+ Years of hands on experience in Software Development and 3+ years of hands on experience on insurance and healthcare domain as a Salesforce admin/ developer including analysis, requirement gathering, design, development, testing, and deployment.  • Experience in the software development lifecycle (SDLC).  • Strong Implementation and Integration experience using Custom objects, Triggers, workflow rules, Visualflows, approvals, S-Controls, Visual Force Pages, and Apex classes.  • Experience in building Schedule Apex, Batch Apex, SOQL, SOSL, SOQL Aggregate functions.  • Key player in migrations and deployment of code from one environment to other using Force.com IDE deployment wizard.  • Expertise in performing data migration from legacy system to Salesforce.  • Good experience in integrating external applications with Salesforce.com both Inbound and Outbound by writing Apex SOAP and REST Web Services and Apex Callouts and Integrations through WSDL, Jitterbit, Dell Boomi.  • Experience working with App Exchange products like Nintex Drawloop for generating the PDF documents and Informatica Address Doctor for Address Validation.  • Worked on various AppExchange products like DocuSign, DupeBlocker, Conga Composer and Apttus according to the needs of the organization.  • Experienced in web technologies like HTML, XML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Proficient in Data Migration from Traditional Applications to Salesforce Using Data Loader Utility on Demand.  • Strong Requirements gathering experience using JAD Sessions & Conducting User Interviews, and preparing functional documents like Use Cases, Software Requirements Specifications.  • Good Understanding and Experience working in Salescloud, Marketing Cloud and Service Cloud.  • Experience in Development of lightening components and Aura framework for extended look and feel of visual force pages.  • Experience in various Salesforce implementations through third party tools.  • Experience in using the Workbench tool for SOQL queries, SOSL and the REST Explorer.  • Experience in Administration setup like manage Users, Security Controls, Data Management, Creating Roles, Profiles, and Integration with Salesforce web services.  • Worked on Exact target/Marketing Cloud and Journey/Audience Builder for email campaign.  • Worked on Salesforce Marketing Cloud Connector V5.  • Responsible for Direct Interaction and Communication with the clients, requirement gathering, analysis, work delegation, development, and deployment of the software projects.  • Experience in all phases of SDLC like including requirements gathering, analysis, designing, coding, testing, integration, documentation, and extensive experience in Agile and Waterfall Methodologies.  • Efficient team member with excellent work/time management skills, excellent leadership, analytical, communication and interpersonal skills and ability to work under strict deadlines. Work Experience Salesforce Developer/Admin CSCGLOBAL - Wilmington, DE September 2017 to Present Description: The project aim is to migrate the Data, sales & service process to salesforce from the legacy systems using the best architecture and configuration. CSC has a large portfolio of products for the legal services, including both retail and individual across the world.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Created field mapping between Legacy CRM system and salesforce to migrate Account, Contact, Leads and Contact Address related data from Legacy CRM system to salesforce.  • Performed org to org data migration.  • Developed Lightning pages with skuid and AURA components for rich UI.  • Created user Roles and Profiles, security controls and shared settings.  • Implemented the Marketing process to remove dupe contacts, Leads. Auto Merge Leads, Contacts if already exists.  • Integration of Sales cloud with external information systems using SOAP API web services.  • Integrated Customized CPQ for the extensive functionality.  • Integrated outlook with salesforce to sync leads, contacts from outlook directly.  • Integrated Conga Composer to generate templates and reports.  • Created custom objects, Batch APEX, SOSL & SOQL queries, Visual force Pages, Triggers, and Validation rules to help track internal help desk cases and lead qualification.  • Created the Workflows for automated lead routing, lead escalation.  • Integrated Outlook for salesforce to synchronize the leads to keep track the activities on the go for the users.  • Worked on Approval process, Lightning Process builder and workflows to automate business process without depending on custom code development.  • Developed dynamic Salesforce.com Visual force pages using Apex page functions and actions, designing them using SKUID, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Used Force.com IDE for development of Visual Force Pages, Apex classes, Triggers and debugging and analyzing logs.  • Used SOAP based Apex Web Services to send/update data from Salesforce to an external order tracking system.  • Deployed application from Sandbox to Production environments using Change Set, Eclipse, and Force.com Migration tool.  • Scheduled reports & Dashboards according to the business needs of the organization.  • Coordinate with others on bi-weekly Sprints to complete releases using agile methodologies.    Environment: Eclipse IDE, Controllers, Visual Force Pages, Data Loader, Workflows, Triggers, CSS, SKUID, Web Services API, Dupe Blocker, Force.com Explorer, Box, Conga Composer, Marketing Cloud, Outlook for integration. Software Developer Prime Technology Group - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2012 to September 2014 Description: This project aims to design the banking system module, for individual, private, business customers. It has checking account, credit card, loan, mortgage features for individual and more options like investment opportunities for business and cooperate customers.  Responsibilities:  • Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement Specifications.  • Involved in Full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Used Agile Methodology to develop the entire application.  • Designed and implemented the User Interface using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, and SQL Server.  • Developed Interfaces using JSP based on the Users, Roles, and Permissions. Screen options were displayed on User permissions. This was coded using Custom Tags in JSP using Tag Libraries.  • Created Web services using Advanced J2EE technologies to communicate with external systems.  • Designed and developed database in Oracle.  • Worked in all the modules of the application, which involved front-end presentation logic developed using JavaScript.  • Developed CSS style sheets to give gradient effects. Developed page layouts, navigation, and icons.  • Implemented login page using HTML, CSS, jQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Used jQuery plugins auto complete, validation, drag and drop and more exceptionally.  • Involved in developing various generic JavaScript functions used for validations.  • Produced content pages with CSS layout and style markup presentations and used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Used XML for developing a dynamic and flexible system for handling data.  • Packaged and deployed the entire application code to an integration-testing environment for all the releases.  • Performed the role of support engineer for the internal users and helped them in getting used to the application, generated reports, and saved them for further access to the users.  • Developed different SOAP services and Web Services using XSD, WSDL and SOAP.  • Debugged the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and DOM Functions using Firefox IE Developer Tool bar for IE.  • Worked closely with QA team and fixed QA bugs as well as production issues.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers  • Focused on Test Driven Development thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality.    Environment: JSP, Servlets, Struts, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, REST, JUnit, XML, SASS, DOM, SQL Server, WebLogic 10.3.1(Oracle App server), Apache Axis 2.x, Webservices, Eclipse, Agile. Skills API, C++, EXCHANGE, HTML, XML, ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, jQuery, TOMCAT, WEB SERVICES, MS ACCESS, MS SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, PL/SQL, SQL, SOAP, APEX, FORCE.COM Links http://Salesforce.com Additional Information Technical Skills:    Salesforce.com Technologies  Force.com IDE, Custom Objects, Reports, Dashboards, Workflow and Approvals, Validation rules, Migration, Visualforce pages, Apex language, Apex Classes and Controllers, Batch Apex, Apex Data Loader, App Exchange, Force.com Platform (Sandbox, and Production), SOQL, SOSL, Eclipse    Salesforce Tools Eclipse, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Apex Data Loader, Workbench, Force.com Platform, Checkmarx, AutoRABIT  Databases Oracle, MS SQL Server  Programming Languages C, C++, Core Java, J2EE, PL/SQL, SQL  Web Technologies & Web Services HTML, XHTML, XML, CSS3, Java Script, jQuery, WSDL, SOAP API, REST API  Integration Tools Knowledge Tools, Apttus CPQ and CLM, App Exchange Tools, Informatica, Cloud- Address Doctor & Drawloop  Force.com Configuration  SFDC Standard Object Configuration: Campaigns, Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Price Books, Products, Assets, Contracts, Cases, Solutions, Ideas, Cases, Solutions, Ideas, Queues, Quotes and Custom Object development, Field creation, Page Layout creation/editing, Related list customization, Record Types, Field Level and Object level security, role hierarchies, sharing models, Workflow: time-dependent actions, field updates, email alerts, task creation, Reports, Dashboards, Formula Fields and Cross Object Formula Fields, Configuration Skills, Overall User Management.    Other Tools MS Access, Eclipse IDE, Cast Iron, BoomiAtomSphere Pervasive Data Integrator, Jitter Bit, Apache Tomcat