Full-stack Software Engineer Full-stack <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer I enjoy software engineering. Parkersburg, WV Experienced software engineer with over 3 years of experience and a associate degree in Computer Science with 1 year left to complete a bachelor's degree in software engineering. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full-stack Software Engineer Jan Dils Attorneys at Law - Parkersburg, WV March 2013 to April 2014 ? Designed, developed, and deployed decision-support software that increased the efficiencyof business processes and enabled the scaling of business, using C#, ASP.NET, SQL Server,and IIS.   ? Debugged, maintained, and added new features using an Agile approach.   ? Added palatable graphical user-interface to software.   ? Presented software to client every week. Software Developer IBM - Kawasaki, Japan March 2008 to November 2008 ? Debugged and maintained Flash-based training software for the HR department.   ? Added some documentation to the software. Assistant Web Designer / Programmer Koensha - Tokyo, Japan 2007 to 2008 ? Assisted graphical design of website components for a major Japanese automaker, usingFlash, ActionScript, and Photoshop.   ? Programmed website components, using Flash and ActionScript.   ? Edited photos to better suit the website's needs. Graphic Designer / Programmer Frontier 21 - Yokohama, Japan 2006 to 2007 ? Designed, developed, and maintained websites, using Flash, ActionScript, HTML, andPhotoshop   ? Designed ads for the affiliate marketing network, using Flash and Photoshop.   ? Helped other teams develop Flash content for their websites. Education Bachelor's in Software Engineering West Virginia University at Parkersburg - Parkersburg, WV August 2018 to Present Associate in Computer Science West Virginia University at Parkersburg - Parkersburg, WV August 2016 to May 2018 Skills Angular, C#, Javascript, Nodejs, Jquery, Java, Node, .NET, Asp.Net, React, SQL, AWS, NET, Python, Angularjs, Git Links https://github.com/jeremii https://jeremi.home.blog Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Technology Associate: Software Development Fundamentals May 2018 to Present https://www.youracclaim.com/badges/4637a8ad-9f2c-4378-b0a3-61511f7d33f1