Team Member - ETL Developer Team Member - ETL <span class="hl">Developer</span> Team Member - ETL Developer - Accenture Services 2 years of IT experience specialized in Data Warehousing with a background in ETL  processes using ETL tool: Talend Bigdata 7.X.  • Knowledge of Data Warehousing  • Capable of the Design and Development of process requiring Extracting, Transform  and Data Loading.  • Having basic knowledge of UNIX, SQL, Data warehousing concepts.  • Proficiency at grasping new concept quickly and utilizing the same in highly  productive manner.  • Ability to work independently as well as team member having varying background on  complex issue.    CRM Reporting is an Accenture internal project. We provide detailed reporting of Service  requests through Qlik-View using Talend bigdata for processing/loading data to target tables  by using Talend ETL jobs.    Responsibility:  • Used Talend ETL tool to load data from Files at server location to the target hive  database.  • Designed various complex jobs with error handling and error capture capabilities to  achieve expected requirements.  • Preparing technical design documents (ETL Specification) for ETL business process.  • Designing ETL flows as per the Functional requirement.  • Have knowledge and hands on experience of deployment process using GIT and  Azure Devops.  • Have created generic Talend jobs which can be reused as per requirements.  • Have done HQL/SQL coding in collaboration with Talend.    I am a highly motivated and hardworking person with good communication skills who can  Contribute effectively towards the growth of the organization.    A fast learner with inquisitiveness to learn new things and to take up complete ownership of  responsibilities assigned.    Declaration    I declare that the information provided is correct to the extent of my knowledge.    Keshaw raj Work Experience Team Member - ETL Developer Accenture Services September 2017 to Present Team Size 9 Software Engineer Accenture Services - Gurgaon, HARYANA, IN June 2017 to Present Education Result B-Tech GITAM University SRM College Delhi Public School - Patna, BIHAR, IN Additional Information Professional Skills:    Languages SQL  Tools Talend Bigdata 7.X, Git, Putty, Hadoop, Ambari  Operating Systems UNIX, Windows XP  Databases Oracle 9i/10g, Hive