Embedded Software Developer & Architect Embedded <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> &amp; Architect Embedded Software Developer & Architect Cedar Rapids, IA Energetic and result oriented professional with 3 years of experience in IT industry as Embedded Software Engineer; Extensive expertise in Embedded Systems, Software Design & Development, Verification & Validation, Programming, Debugging, and Analysis; Adept in Processes and Standards; Hands-on skills at playing multiple roles and ability to relate to people at different levels; Emphasis on delivering Effective Business Solutions; Highly ethical, trustworthy and discreet. Work Experience Embedded Software Developer & Architect SANDS Instrumentation Pvt.Ltd 2006 to 2008 Project Title: CMRI (Common Meter Reading Instrument)    Key Deliverables:  • Understanding the system requirements and customer specifications.  • Develop High level Design and low-level requirements.  • Developed C coding as per standards.  • Debugged and Solved power supply problem in CMRI and Resolved Hanging CMRI issue.  • Ensure coding compliance as outlined in the Design and system Requirements.  • Participate in the reviews of the requirements and Code.    Description:  Downloading reading from Meter to CMRI connected through serial port and stored in an permanent memory. We can re-display the readings from memory. Embedded Software Developer & Architect GE Infoserve Pvt Ltd 2005 to 2006 Project Title: STS (Solar Tracking System)    Key Deliverables:  • Developed C coding as per the Design Requirements.  • Tool used Cygwin and GCC complier.  • Debug the code using C50 debugger.  • Ensure coding compliance as per coding standards.  • Installed in customer place and tracked the functionality of the system    Description:  Tracking the movement of the sun to utilize maximum solar energy in the application where is used as a source. Education Communications systems Anna University 2013 B.E. in Electronics and Communications Madras University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu 2005 Skills C/c++, C++, Coding, Embedded c, Python Certifications/Licenses Certified ScrumMaster (CSM) August 2019 to August 2021 certification in python programming April 2018 to Present Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES    ? Proficiency in Embedded C, C++  ? Experience in MATLAB/Simulink.  ? Communication Protocols - RS232, CAN.  ? Development Environments -Understand C/C++, Keil C, Ride  ? Debugging - C50 Debugger and Wireshark.  ? Change & Configuration Management - DOORS.  ? Thorough knowledge in SDLC - Waterfall method.  ? Good Understanding of Python Scripting.  ? Good Understanding in Agile methodology.  ? Knowledge of DO178B  ? Experience in Microprocessor, Microcontroller  ? Software Development tool - JIRA    CARRIER HIGHLIGHTS    ? Managed software system configuration projects through all phases of project life cycle including analysis, design, development, testing, implementation and quality project deliverable.  ? Develop High level and low-level requirements, Develop code as per the coding standards.  ? Python Programming for Beginners Certification.  ? Expertise in C and Embedded programming.