Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer - Python New York, NY, NY, NY Work Experience Developer Python - Malvern, PA February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Agile.  ? Implementing Python alongside using various libraries such as matplotlib for charts and graphs, Python -twitter, PySide, Pickle, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, and MySQL dB for database connectivity.  ? Developed applications using mix of technologies (Python, Django, Flask, Pandas, REST, and SOLR)  ? Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using NumPy and SQL alchemy.  ? Involved in designing and deploying multitude applications utilizing almost all of the AWS stack (Including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, Dynamo DB, SNS, SQS, IAM) focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto scaling in AWS Cloud Formation.  ? Configured AWS IAM and Security Group in Public and Private Subnets in VPC.  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment and Responsible to manipulate HTML5, CSS3 in jQuery and provided dynamic functionality using AJAX, XML and JSON.  ? Developed web applications and RESTful WebServices and APIs using Python Flask, Django and PHP  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis and Using NumPy for Numerical analysis and managing large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using GIT, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  ? Developed single page application by using AngularJS backed by MongoDB and NodeJS and built Single Page Applications (SPA), Responsive Web Design (RWD) UI, Rich Restful Service Applications, and HTML Wireframes using HTML5 Grid Structures/Layouts, CSS3 Media Queries, Ajax, AngularJS and Bootstrap.  ? Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Expertise in developing web-based open stack applications using Python and Django for large dataset analysis.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Successfully migrated the database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  ? Integrated Hibernate ORM with Spring-Hibernate framework to facilitate DML and DQL queries and represent object-database mapping.  ? Involved in producing and consuming web services using both REST and SOAP.  ? Used jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers and Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  ? Used SQL stored procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for importing/exporting Data and Conversions.  ? Involved in development of WebServices using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Developed Client-side screens in XML using XSLT.  ? Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IoC, creation of Hibernate (ORM) mapping files and generation of database schema.  ? Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL Database.  ? Participated in Version controlling process using GitHub, Git.  Environment: Python 3.x, Django, Go language, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Developer Python - Parsippany, NJ August 2017 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Worked on the development of internal testing tool framework written in Python.  ? Wrote scripts in python for extracting data from HTML file.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tasty pie web Framework using GIT, Node JS, Angular JS, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing the application and implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  ? Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, Underscore JS, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that are the main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Implemented CI tools Jenkins for automated builds and deployments.  ? Used open pixel Python library for reading and writing Excel files.  ? Involved in the complete software development lifecycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  ? Created database using MYSQL, wrote several queries to extract data from the database.  ? Implemented migration tasks from Oracle apps to PostgreSQL databases.  ? Dynamic implementation of SQL server works on a website using SQL developer tool.  ? Added several options to the application to choose algorithm for data and address generation.  ? Used automation Jenkins for continuous integration on Amazon EC2.  ? Hands on Experience in AWS Cloud in various AWS Services such as Route 53 Domain configuration.  ? Designed and developed the framework to consume the web services hosted in Amazon EC2.  ? Created monitors, alarms and notifications for EC2 hosts using Cloud watch.  ? Gained Hands on experience Configuring Access Lists for inbound and outbound traffic RDS DB services, Dynamo DB tables, EBS volumes; to set alarms for notification or automated actions and to monitor logs for a better understanding and operation of the system availability regions.  ? Designed, developed and maintained PostgreSQL database architecture.  ? Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  ? Using Git to resolve and coding the work on Python.  ? Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using NumPy and SQL Alchemy.  ? The Unit test was improved and the existing ones were also fixed.  ? Actively worked as a part of a team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  ? Performed code reviews and implemented best Pythonic programming practices.  ? Good analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  Environment: Python, HTML5, CSS3, Angular.js, JavaScript, MYSQL, Django, Django Tastypie, UNIX, Windows, PostgreSQL, SQL Alchemy, SQL, AWS, Apache Web Server, Git. Developer Python - Palo Alto, CA May 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  ? Used Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites.  ? Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  ? Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  ? Used Django APIs for database access.  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Worked with Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code Optimization.  ? Wrote a Python module to connect and view the status of an Apache Cassandra instance.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Used Python unit and functional testing modules such as unit test, unittest2, mock, and custom frameworks in-line with Agile Software Development methodologies.  ? Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  ? Involved in Flex development exposure of Flex layout and navigation, event handling, pop-up dialogs, menus and skinning.  ? Built efficient Angular.js backend for client web application.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Worked on Python Open stack API's.  ? Cleaned and categorized the data with AWS Glue and made it available to search.  ? Used AWS Glue API operations to interface with AWS glue services.  ? Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  ? Created a GIT repository and added the project to GitHub.  ? Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  ? Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  Environment: Python, Django, PyQT, Panda API, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Angular.js, Flex, JSON, Restful, XML, JavaScript, OOD, Shell Scripting, GIT Hub, MYSQL, Cassandra, Jira, agile. Software Developer ResourceQ Services January 2015 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  ? Made Django web-based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  ? Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  ? Involved in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  ? Job scheduling, batch-job scheduling, process control, forking and cloning of jobs and checking the status of the jobs using shell scripting.  ? With using of Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  ? Automated data extraction process from legacy system and used 'Nose' Testing framework with Assertion module to testing many automated processes.  ? Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  ? Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  ? Developed weekly, monthly nightly job process through UNIX shell scripting.  ? Thoroughly used Unit Test Python library for testing many python programs and block of codes.  ? Also have rich experience on testing REST Full API like Facebook and Twitter.  ? Migration of the data contained in the earlier ASPL Database from Sybase to Oracle.  ? Migrate the Libraries written using Sybase API's to Oracle's OCCI API's.  ? Automation of testing using Python.  Environment: Python, Django, XML, Java, Apache, CSS, MySQL, ORACLE, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, Linux, UNIX. Software Developer Aristocrat IT Solutions August 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Participated in the complete SDLC process.  ? Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Created Business Logic using Python 2.7.  ? Used Django framework for application development.  ? Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries and Django API's to extract data from database.  ? Created specific images using Python Imaging Library for the custom images used for each book.  ? Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  ? Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  ? Used Git for the version control.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux. Education Bachelor's Skills APACHE (5 years), DJANGO (5 years), HTML (5 years), JAVASCRIPT (5 years), MYSQL (5 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Skills  DJANGO (4 years), HTML (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (4 years), PYTHON (4 years), MYSQL (4 years), Flask (Less than 1 year), Java (Less than 1 year), C (Less than 1 year), AWS (Less than 1 year), Restful (Less than 1 year)  TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages Python, C, C++  Operating systems Windows, Linux (Ubuntu), VMware  Python Computing Libraries Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python- twitter, Pandas Data Frame, Network, urllib2  Frameworks Django, Flask, Web2py, Pyramid, Cubic Web  Web Technologies Python, Django, CGI, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Angula2, Angular4, Bootstrap, Ajax, XML, XSLT, Shell Scripting,  Databases Redis, DynamoDb, Cassandra, MariaDB, MongoDB, MySQL, MSSQL, SQL Server, Oracle, RDS, PostgreSQL  Version Control/CI Tools SVN, Git/GitHub, Subversion (SVN), Jenkins, Hudson, Bamboo, Bit bucket  IDEs Tools Sublime Text, Spyder, PyCharm, Eclipse, Django, Python IDLE  Web/Application Servers NginX, Apache Tomcat, Jboss, WebSphere, WebLogic  Protocols TCP/IP, UDP, ICMP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, FTP, DNS  Testing Tools Robot, PyBuilder, Selenium (Selenium WebDriver, IDE), Mockito, PyTest, Nose, VB Script  Bug Tracking Tools Jira, BugZilla