Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Insight Software Miramar, FL Software Developer for an EMR software company in the Eye Care industry. As a software developer, I want to keep growing my skills, and utilize them in coding efficient and reliable applications using the latest technology and tools in a strong team environment. I'm a quick learner that can be an effective team member in a short period of time.  Technical Tools  C#, PowerBuilder, Java, JavaScript, .Net, XML, HTML, SOAP/REST services, CSLA, jQuery, ASP.Net, AngularJS, Bootstrap, N-Tier applications, Entity Framework, Visual Studio, Eclipse, MS SQL Server, VS Code Work Experience Software Developer Insight Software - Weston, FL October 2010 to Present www.myvisionexpress.com  • Contributed in the development of an optometry EHR software and other components used by it.  • Consumed web services in java and C# to enhance the main software by sending and receiving patient information and appointments through windows services and applications used by the main software.  • Was called upon on multiple occasions to make the software more efficient through the program and SQL Server.  • Contributed to the designing of enhancements to the software with the knowledge gained over time.  • Developed a java windows service to sync appointments and patient information between the main software and a third-party web-based appointment book.  • Developed a C# windows service using wcf to sync appointments, patient information, company information, and other setup details from the main software to a third-party web patient portal. This also received appointment request made by patients, and patient communications sent to patients from the portal that would be saved in patient interactions, and update patient, appointment or patient order information. Later on, developed an n-tier windows service to use the new API from the same patient portal.  • Developed an ASP.Net website (whoisyourinsurance.com) to search if a patient is insured by a select group of insurances set up by a user.  • Developed an API in ASP.Net Core for a custom integration for a client to send information to our main application, and developed a separate C# project to call this client's own APIs to send information from our main application. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology Florida International University - Miami, FL 2008 High School Diploma Westwood Christian High School - Miami, FL