Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer - Lg soft inda • Overall 3+ years of IT Experience including 1.5 years of Robotic process automation using Blue Prism.  • Well versed with Process Flow, Blue Prism stages, Object development and application Modeling.  • Work Queues Configuration, monitoring, Internal Blue Prism Work Queue Actions, Exception handling design, correct use of stages and blocks, Correct use of data types, session and environment variables.  • Well versed with Control Room resource, session management, Blue Prism internal calculation functions and how to debug process solutions.  • Expertise in building complex business Flows and Robotic Process Automations using Automation Specific tools like Blue prism.  • Good knowledge on Different phases of Software Testing and Software Development Life cycle (SDLC).  • Ability to understand the business requirement documents (BRD) and to automate them accordingly.  • Experience in Manual testing and testing methodologies.  • Experience in writing test cases, developing and maintaining test scripts, analyzing the results of scripts, interaction with developers in Fixing the errors.  • Quickly adapting to new technologies. Work Experience Developer Lg soft inda December 2018 to Present Technology: Blue prism    Project Description:  It was an internal project where we had to reduce the labour time by automating different parts of ERP module. This product consists of different modules which was to be automated whenever a new client was added in the system. All the details related to clients is present in excel. We had to take all the data from excel sheet as input and have to update the system. This is a repetitive work which happens bi-weekly. by eliminating the human part from the the equation, it helped client reducing the cost by 85% and helped in reducing the headcount by 40%.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing and implementing.  • Created database connections to fetch the data and automated the process to arrange the data with Blue prism.  • Worked on using Excel and CSV commands with Blue prism.  • Experience in using Navigate and Wait commands with Blue prism.  • Experience in using Exception handling & recover stages.  • Experience in using work Queues and Queue management in Blue prism.  • Responsible for all support related activities.  • Identifying and debugging the errors using Exception handling.  • Writing test cases after analyzing Technical and business requirements.  • Participated in Project related team meetings.    Project # 2    Client: US based healthcare company Software Developer Lg soft inda October 2015 to August 2019 Technical Skills:  OS Windows 2003, 2008 and 2012  RPA Tools Blue Prism Developer Lg soft inda October 2017 to November 2018 Technology: Blue prism    Description  This was a process where we had to pick some User Details and put that in a new form. After putting values in this new form, search for user's existing order and place new if required else return to the next iteration. Major responsibility was to directly communicate with the client to understand their requirements and document those. Developing the automation and testing it accordingly to the Business requirements. With developing the POC and understanding the Requirements I also shared my knowledge with my team members.    Responsibilities:  • Used Excel VBO object to perform operation in excel sheet while taking excel sheet  Data as input  • Used process, objects, work queues, calculation stages to write logic in Blue prism.  • Responsible for providing updates to the clients in our daily scrum call.  • I am actively involved in all the phase of development.  • Analyzing, understanding and documenting the business processes in detail where  Required.  • Configuring new Blue prism processes and objects using core work Flow principles that are Efficient, well structured, maintainable and easy to understand.  Supporting existing processes and implementing change requirements as part of a structured change control process    Project # 3 IMI DixonCarphone October 2015 to September 2017 Team Size: 6  Environment: SQL Server 2005, 2008R2.    The project involved a very large software development based on Oracle and related tools for the use of online retail stores.Credit Reporting Exceptions Workflow, and Foreign Exchanges etc. The focus of this project was on distributed computing and the database processing. Additionally since the industry is so changing, the software had to be extremely flexible. It had a large number of stored procedures, functions and triggers    Roles and Responsibilities:  * Installing the SQL server 2005/2008/2008 R2/2012 and applying the service packs.  * Configuring and maintaining Database Backups.  * Responsible for setting up the Transaction Replication for the high availability purpose.  * Daily checking and resolving the tickets depends on the priority levels.  * Responsible for performing Database Maintenance activities like rebuilding/reorganizing indexes update statistics, checking database integrity and clean up history on regular intervals.  * Daily monitoring the Database Space Management parameters, allocating the required space to databases and suitably managing database growth.  * Enrolling users, controlling and monitoring User Access to the database, and maintaining system security.  * Doing Weekly Refresh of Database from Production to Test Environment.  * Working on Log shipping and mirroring tickets.  * Able to perform the Failover and Failback activities in Cluster environment.    Declaration:  I hereby declare that the information furnished above is true to the best of my Knowledge    (RAMANJANEYA) MS SQL 2005 to 2008 Server (2005, 2008, 2008 R2 and 2012)  BluePrism Products Object Studio, Process Studio, Control Room, Dashboard and System Manager, Release Manager, Login Agent, MAPIEX and JAB    Projects Profile:  Project # 1    Client: Finland's Leading TelecomCompany Education MCA Sri Venkateswra University - Tirupati, AP, IN 2015