Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Tampa, FL • Around 8.6 years of experience in compliance and healthcare domain and worked across complex technologies Java, Spring, JPA, JEE, Hibernate, Rest Web Services, Batch processing, JMS queue.  • Have extensive experience in full development life cycle (SDLC) involving Requirement Analysis & Elicitation, Estimation, High Level Design, Detail Level Design, Development, implementation and maintenance of J2EE multi-tiered applications.  • Have sound experience in providing solution for performance improvement for high available and high transaction J2EE applications.  • Excellent working knowledge on different frameworks, like Spring integration, Spring MVC Framework and Object to Relational Mapping (ORM) technologies such as Hibernate, JPA, Spring JDBC, & Spring Data JPA.  • Sound knowledge on source code management systems like SVN, GIT & Bitbucket.  • Experienced in RDBMS design and data modelling in providing scalable and robust application.  • Experienced on developing and deploying applications on, Apache Tomcat and IBM WebSphere.  • Experience in Configure Jenkins for Automatic Deployments in Tomcat Server  • Experience in leading, working and coordinating with geographically distributed teams.  • Experience in Active interaction, participation and working closely with Client and business entities under "Partnership on Delivery" mode for effective, quality & on-time delivery. Work Experience Software Developer Citi Bank - Tampa, FL February 2013 to Present Software: J2EE platform with Oracle as the database, Web Sphere 8 as application server, Spring Tool suite as IDE.    Name of the Project: CitiKYC  Description of the Project:    Citi KYC (Know Your Customer) is a platform that performs due diligence when accepting or renewing periodically, a business relationship. This process ensures global and regional compliance with KYC regulations, Customer Identification procedures (CIP-P) and other regulatory requirements intended to protect Citi from being used for money laundering or other illegal financing activities. This platform enables a single shared KYC record for the customer to the extent permitted by applicable laws and regulations and link related accounts to maintain a comprehensive understanding of clients and accounts throughout the bank and across the lines of business. This project also involves establishment of relationship with new customers including but not limited to screening and On-boarding processes integrated with enterprise wide KYC repository having Anti-Money Laundering information, thus creating a dynamic feedback loop.  This is an end-to-end application development project involving requirements elicitation, detailed design, build, testing, implementation and support. The system would be developed in multiple releases using the waterfall SDLC development methodology.    Role: Technology Lead -US-Practitioner  Responsibility:  • Design, develop, test and deploy specific modules for software products.  • Gather and document requirements and create high level and low level design artifacts.  • Conduct proof of concepts (POCs) as necessary.  • Deliver high quality code and conduct quality checks to ensure design requirements are met.  • Conduct functional and integration testing.  • Support system and user experience testing for assigned modules.  • Contribute to deployment plan and post-production support and coordinate with global teams for task completion.  • Prepare system appreciation documents and conduct impact analysis.  • Prioritize and address issues in production.  • Perform root cause analysis on issues and identify solutions.  • Work with one or more application servers, and utilized application & RDBMS design principles.  • Proof of Concepts, Requirement Gathering & Analysis, Development, Testing, Maintenance  • Integration of on-boarding (existing / legacy) applications with Global KYC using RESTFUL and SOAP web services  • Continuous Support/upgrade of KYC application software to meet OCC compliance requirements for AML and Money laundering  • Development of the modules is done using Complex J2EE technologies like  • Spring Framework for overall application development  ? Hibernate (Object Relational Mapping - Java Persistence API) framework for data persistence  ? Java Messaging Services (JMS) middleware like TIBCO and IBM MQ for offline asynchronous communication between systems using messaging.  ? Asynchronous batch file processing with Python shell scripts and frameworks like Spring Batch  • Design and Implement Real time RESTFUL web service migration (using Java/J2EE, Spring Model-View-Controller framework, XML/JSON request over HTTP) to onboard new customers and capture account/relationship data from Citi Retail account opening platform (Rainbow) in the Asia Pacific region (Malaysia)  • Design and Implement incremental batch framework to onboard customer and account data from Citi Retail account opening source system (Concierge) in the North America region (United States and Mexico) using Java MBEANS technology (JMX) for batch processing and Python based shell scripting.  • Design and Implement Risk Scoring Builder service which will be used to feed the customer demographics and account information to a Risk Engine (Risk Calculation Service) hosted on Ab-Initio server to fulfil one of the main compliance requirements of the KYC - AML program.  • Implemented Asynchronous service for Real Time Screening of Citi customer information using spring framework and Java Messaging Service with IBM MQ software for point-to-point message communication with Citi Screening product. This facilitates to identify the positive/negative screening hits for the customer name and profile details.  • Develop Oracle stored procedure to auto-generate the KYC test data and automate integration testing  • Document Interface specifications, platform processes and procedures.  • Design document to capture  ? Class Diagram.  ? Sequence Diagram.  ? Flow chart (Business logic).  ? Pseudo Code  • Perform Unit testing of code with JUNIT framework and analyzed code for coverage and Java violations with Semmle static code analyzer tool.  • Perform end-to-end Integration testing of the developed modules in the Development environment (WebSphere application server)  • Validation and support activities for the assigned sub-modules for all types of testing e.g. Functional, Integration, System Software Developer Spire Health December 2010 to January 2013 Client: Hospitals  Duration: From December 2010 to January 2013  Software: Software J2EE, JMS, Hibernate 3.0. PostgreSQL 8.2, Apache Tomcat 6.  Name of the Project: Spire Health  Description of the Project:  The overall aim of the Spire Health is keep tracking the doctors, patients and their related information in a hospital. This system supports accessing the previous visit histories of any patient and doctor. Also this software includes the search module. This system is having different modules like admin, doctor, patient registration, prescription, search, history and ward. Doctor module maintains the information about the doctors, patient registration module provides the user to register patient details and search module provides the user to search for any patient or doctor's information. Prescription module stores the details about the prescriptions recommended by doctors for their patients. The ward module contains the information about the availability of the wards.    Role: Software Developer.  Responsibility:  • Analyze project requirements and estimate size and effort.  • Developed Server Side component containing Business Logic  • Developed "Appointment Messaging" using JMS.  • Designing Data Model using Hibernate.  • Develop code using knowledge of relevant technology as per design specifications.  • Developed Report generation API using Dynamic Jasper to export as PDF.  • Perform testing-self and independent (Functional, Integration & System  • Provide deployment and post-deployment support.  • Understanding the client and project requirements (Functional and Non- Functional)    Project Title: Spire ERP  Client: Hospitals  Duration: From December 2010 to January 2013  Software: Software J2EE, JMS, Hibernate 3.0. PostgreSQL 8.2, Apache Tomcat 6.  Name of the Project: Spire ERP  Description of the Project:  Description of the project: Spire ERP, a web based ERP software, can help you share information between various departments/functions and let them collaborate better and help all of them move towards the common organizational goals. Sharing does not mean that everyone has access to all the information in the organization. Information in Spire ERP is controlled by restrictions and access rights.    Responsibility:  • Analyze project requirements and estimate size and effort.  • Developed Server Side component containing Business Logic  • Developed "Alert Messaging" using JMS.  • Understanding the scope of business needs.  • Provide deployment and post-deployment support.  • Understanding the client and project requirements (Functional and Non- Functional) Education Bachelor's Skills Database, Oracle, Postgresql, Unix, MYSQL, Java (8 years), J2EE (9 years), Spring (6 years), JPA (8 years), REST (8 years) Additional Information Operating Systems: UNIX, WINDOWS  Database work On: Oracle, PostgreSQL