Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - Centralized Showing Service Overland Park, KS Work Experience Senior Software Developer Centralized Showing Service - Overland Park, KS September 2017 to Present Worked as part of a team to maintain an existing MVC website and Windows Forms application while developing a new website and mobile application with React, TypeScript, and Cordova.  Projects included:  ? Database Syncing:  ? Analyzing five different databases to find any differences in tables, store procedures, views, triggers, constraints, and indexes, and getting all five to have the same schema.  ? Mobile Application Redesign:  ? Created a system for listing agents of a property to send email announcements to anyone who has previously shown the property.  ? Created functionality to suspend a user if they had an overdue payment and implemented system messages to notify the user that they have an unpaid balance.  ? Maintenance of existing MVC website and Windows Form application. Software Developer Wachter, Inc - Lenexa, KS October 2016 to August 2017 Worked as part of an agile team to supported and expanded an ASP.NET/C# application managing the majority of the company's operations.  Projects included:  ? Tool Management System:  ? A system written in C#, using Telerik UI controls, to manage all tools for the Wachter warehouses. Developed a system for assigning tools to individuals, and designed and created new SQL tables and views for storing and retrieving data.  ? Included functionality for individuals to sign off on tools, a history record for tool assignments, and the ability to transfer tools between individuals.  ? Subcontractor Tier Management:  ? Developed a system in C# to allow supervisors to rating subcontractor performance and ratings, and designed and created new SQL tables for the new data structure.  ? Added functionality to existing maps within the system to allow individuals to create a tiering structure for subcontractors appearing on the maps. Software Developer American National - Springfield, MO October 2013 to September 2016 Worked as a team to develop workflows, convert legacy applications, and automate business functionalities being done by hand for business needs in the IBM BPM tool.  Projects included:  ? Work Item Locator: A system that allowed individuals to search through any work item processed through a workflow in the IBM BPM tool, with functionality to reassign, terminate, and place work items on hold.  ? Developed multiple billing workflows that allowed individuals to request refunds for customers, track every approval level for refunds, and manage billing of customers.  ? Developed admin tools for accessing DB2 databases within the IBM BPM tool, sending support emails, restarting failed or stalled work items.  Maintained various systems including:  ? Email Watcher: The core email system for the company. Main service written in VB.NET with C# web services.  ? Agent Email: An application for sending out mass emails to insurance agents, written in C#.  ? Issues 32: An issue tracking and auditing system for the company, written in VB6. Associate Software Developer Old Town IT - Springfield, MO June 2011 to September 2013 Worked alone and as part of a team to develop custom implementations for the netFORUM association management system.  Projects included:  ? NACHA: Converted NACHA's website from ColdFusion to Drupal, while integrating various netFORUM systems, written in ASP.NET/C#, into the Drupal site.  ? Army Emergency Relief: Developed functionality within netFORUM, using ASP.NET/C# user controls and web forms, for members of AER to manage financial requests coming into the association. Designed and created new tables and stored procedures in SQL for AER-specific data within netFORUM. Created systems for managing loan processing and payments. Education AAS in Computer Science Ozarks Technical Community College Skills C# (8 years), ASP.NET (8 years), MS SQL (8 years), Javascript (8 years) Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY    Languages: C# (3.5+), ASP.NET, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, MS SQL/MySQL, React, REST API, TypeScript  Tools: Visual Studio (2008-2017), Visual Studio Code, SSMS (2008 R2, 2012), TFS, Git, SVN, IBM BPM Workflow Tools, netFORUM Association Management System