Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer Miami, FL Experienced Software Engineer with a demonstrated history of working in the information technology and services industry. Skilled in PHP, Angular, Web Design, Back-End Web Development and Front End Development. Strong engineering professional with a Bachelor's degree focused in Computer Science from University of Havana. Passionate programmer, enthusiast with new software techs and hard worker. Work Experience Software Engineer Chargebacks911 - Clearwater, FL July 2019 to Present 1. Fixing bugs in company projects  2. Maintenance and expanding existing code in Laravel and Symfony  3. Build CRUD using best development practices Software Developer DSpot - Worclaw January 2016 to August 2018 • Builds managements web apps  • Analyze, design, test, debug, maintain, and document codes in a daily basis   • Bring to life sketches for websites and make modifications on existing one working closely with Graphic Designer  • Use of PHP, Angular, Laravel, CodeIgniter, MySQL and Git to build web apps  • Work with external APIs like Facebook, Twitter and Google  • Set up production environments in Linux based Serves Software Developer Cuban Institute of Ophthalmology - Havana January 2015 to July 2018 • Use of WordPress, PHP, SQL, HTML, CSS, and Javascript  • Create new web apps for internal control using Laravel and Symfony.  • Create Institute official website using wordpress. Software Developer NIVAL - Havana January 2014 to December 2016 • Use of PHP, Symfony, CodeIgniter, Bootstrap, SQL, HTML, CSS, and Javascript  • Create new websites and make modifications on existing one working closely with client’s specifications. Software Developer Central Bank of Cuba - Havana September 2014 to January 2015 • Updated modules of platform for control management using FoxPro .NET Software Developer SIMPRO - Havana September 2012 to July 2014 • Updated an application to create and manage exercises for AK-47 Shoot Simulator developed using C++  • Updated algorithm of camera calibration used in AK-47 Shoot Simulator using C++ and OpenCV Education Bachelor's of Computer Sciences in Computer Science University of Havana - Havana September 2007 to July 2014 Skills PHP (4 years), Javascript (3 years), SQL (4 years), MySQL, Web Development (4 years), Web Design (2 years), Wordpress (1 year), C# (2 years), C++ (2 years), Python (1 year), Linux, NET, Computer Science, jQuery, HTML 5, Git, CSS Assessments Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient May 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/bsgbuhjhrerzt64j Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.