Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - UST Global St. Louis, MO • 9+ years of experience in Requirement Analysis, Planning, Documentation, Designing, Development, Debugging & Diagnostics, Testing, Maintenance, Enhancements and Deployment of applications.  • Have good experience and sound knowledge in Designing and developing highly performing and secured applications using ASP.NET (C#), Angular 6, MVC5, HTML5, JSON, JavaScript, Bootstrap, CSS, Web API, Node.js, ADO.NET.  • Experienced in working on the complete Software Development Life Cycle, which includes Requirement Analysis, Planning, Documentation, Designing, Development, Debugging & Diagnostics, Testing and Deployment of applications.  • Have strong knowledge in OOPS concept, .NET frameworks (3.5, 4.0, 4.5, 4.6), and .NET Technologies including Angular6.  • Experienced in defining standards, implementing patterns & practices, recommendations to infrastructure and code reviews.  • Experienced in developing secured REST APIs with all standards.  • Experienced in rewriting desktop application into MVC 5 based web application, with responsive UI using Bootstrap.  • Have good experience in working on the Agile Methodology and Scrums.  • Experienced in Test Driven Development using NUnit with Rhinomocks.  • Experience in VSS, Jira, TFS, GitHub with Bitbucket and Continuous Integration (CI) in TFS.  • Experienced in developing authentication/ authorization providers which implements OAuth2 and Open ID Connect (with JWT).  • Have experience in collaborate with the vendors in regards with integrating their products in the applications for security purposes (coding/ development perspective).  • Have experience in leading agile team, taking the ownership of the application to ensure the achievement of Sprint Goals, and feature deliveries.  • Expert skills in database design and development, creating complex database queries, writing  Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures and Functions using SQL Server and Oracle 10g, 11g  • Collaborated with the remote teams in multiple projects.  • Expertise in Workforce, Finance & Banking domains.  • Experience in mentoring junior resources in the team.  • Experience in leading a team for creating a MVP using Spring Boot and Spring. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Senior Software Developer UST Global - St. Louis, MO March 2019 to Present Client: Equifax    Auth Services is an application which will be replacing RBA/SSS eventually, once it is developed fully. We started this project as an MVP 3 months back, but now its gradually developing into a real IDP for Equifax applications. It uses OAUTH2 and OIDC for the Identity Provider. It also uses secured REST APIs for various functionalities. We uses an open source named MITREid for implementing identity provider. We customize it to suite our purpose.    Technologies: Spring Boot, Spring Security, REST API, OIDC, OAUTH2, PostgreSQL (eventually we will use Spanner), GCP  Responsibilities:  • Develop the features based on the business requirement.  • Solely researched and implemented identity provider using OIDC and OAUTH2.  • Developed secured REST APIs.  • Code Reviews.  • Managing sprint stories and issues tracking using JIRA.  • Demo the developed features to the entire team.  • Splitting the work and assigning to the entire team.  • Participate in daily stand ups, sprint planning, sprint reviewing and retrospective.  • Helping the junior resources resolving their road-blocks. Senior Software Developer UST Global - St. Louis, MO January 2018 to March 2019 RBA is Risk Based Authentication application which is used as the sign-in portal for the entire Equifax Workforce solutions (WFS) applications. RBA ensures the security of the user's account by protecting his account with various kinds of security levels (MFA). It uses a custom token for the authentication/ authorization purposes for different employee-employer combinations for various functionalities.    Technologies: ASP.NET (C#), Java Script, HTML5, CSS, jQuery, Bootstrap, Oracle, REST API  Responsibilities:  • Requirement analysis on each requirement changes.  • Develop optimized code using ASP.NET (C#) and unit tests.  • Feature enhancements using ASP.NET (C#), Java Script, HTML5, CSS, jQuery, Bootstrap, Oracle  • Created secure REST APIs for communicating to main application.  • Database design and development, creating complex database queries, writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures and Functions using Oracle 10g, 11g.  • Code Reviews.  • Managing sprint stories and issues tracking using TFS and JIRA (project was moved from TFS to JIRA).  • Coordination with the remote team to distribute works.  • Communicate with the client regarding the issues/ road-blocks which the remote team faces and to help them overcome the issues.  • Maintenance, troubleshooting and support of product after the feature is released to production.  • Participate in daily stand ups, sprint planning, sprint reviewing and retrospective. Senior Software Developer UST Global - St. Louis, MO June 2017 to January 2018 Project: Integrate 'PinDrop' with CSA  Location: St. Louis, Missouri  Role: Senior Software Developer  Client: Equifax    CSA is Client Support Application which is used by the Equifax Customer Support Division in order to support the Equifax customers.  Whenever a customer, who is an employee under the employment of a client of Equifax, calls into the support center, the support person uses CSA application to verify the employee and provide the required details. This application helps in answering the caller's questions by fetching details from all the Equifax WFS application databases and services based on the category of questions which the caller have.  The scope of the project was to integrate Pindrop with CSA application in order to track and records the risk score generated by the Pindrop based for a particular caller to determine whether its fraudulent call or not.  Technologies: ASP.NET(C#), MVC, JQuery, JavaScript, REST API  Responsibilities:  • Requirement analysis on each requirement changes.  • Design and Develop solely a new secured REST API for handling the POST request from the Pindrop service(webhook), using recommended security standards.  • Design and develop the changes to incorporate the Pindrop real-time high volume responses into CSA by using REST API as a webhook.  • Database design and development, creating complex database queries, writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures and Functions using Oracle 10g, 11g.  • Code Reviews.  • Daily interaction via calls, in-person meetings and email communications with the vendor to get sufficient data for incorporating Pindrop with CSA.  • Unit test using NUnit and Rhinomocks.  • Managing sprint stories and issues tracking using TFS.  • Deployment to Quality Assurance environment for QA team to test the functionality.  • Educate the QA team in remote location regarding the changes; in order them to test the changes.  • Maintenance, troubleshooting and support of product after the feature is released to production.  • Regularly interact with the network team to setup the infrastructure for deploying the new API in various environments, including Production. Senior Software Developer/ Technical Lead UST Global - Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala July 2013 to June 2017 July 2013 - June 2017  Project: CSA Re-write/ Modernization  Location: Trivandrum, Kerala, India  Role: Senior Software Developer/ Technical Lead  Client: Equifax    CSA is Client Support Application which is used by the Equifax Customer Support Division in order to support the Equifax customers. CSA was basically a desktop application before the modernization. We modernize it into a MVC based responsive web application.    Technologies: ASP.NET(C#), MVC5, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, WCF, Kendo  Responsibilities:  • Modernize the desktop application into Web based application, which uses responsive UI, using Bootstrap.  • Requirement gathering from the client.  • Estimation of the work based on the requirements.  • Creating the base architecture for the project using Unity Container, and SOLID principles.  • Lead the team and help guide them to accomplish the target in each sprint.  • Design and develop the functionalities using MVC5 (C#, Razor), Oracle 11g as per the requirements.  • Fixing the issues/ bugs in the application.  • Tracking and management of sprint story (and its tasks) and issues in TFS.  • Unit and integration tests with NUnit and MSTest.  • Daily interaction with the client through emails and phone, in order to update the progress and communicate with them regarding any roadblocks faced.  • Deploy the application to the Quality Assurance environment.  • Demo the features developed in the sprint for the client.  • Involved in the maintenance, troubleshooting and support of the product after the feature went to production.  • Preparing weekly status report to the managers.  • Develop Automation tests. Software Developer Sarfinity Consulting Pvt Ltd July 2010 to June 2013 Client: Zafin Labs    PAYE is robust payroll software that automates the tiresome and laborious payroll process. It captures the employee details and pay details, and help in managing the employee services like promotion/ transfer details, EOS details, and suspension, probation and pay revisions.    Technologies: ASP.NET(C#), JavaScript, HTML, CSS, MS SQL  Responsibilities:  • Developed optimized code to meet the client requirement using ASP.NET(C#), JavaScript, MS SQL.  • Unit test creation using MSTest.  • Database design and development, creating complex database queries, writing  Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures and Functions using Oracle 10g, 11g.  • Communicate with the client regarding the issues/ road-blocks which the remote team faces and rectify them.  • Tracking and management of sprint story (and its tasks) and issues in TFS.  • Maintenance, troubleshooting and support of product after the feature released to production. Education Bachelor's degree in Electronics & Communication University of Kerala Skills Asp.Net (6 years), Css, Database, Sql server, Sql server 2005, Oracle, Postgresql, Visual studio, C#, Design patterns, Git, Bootstrap, Node.js, Typescript, Scripting, Html5, Entity framework (Less than 1 year), PostgreSQL (Less than 1 year), REST API (2 years), Angular 6 (Less than 1 year), TypeScript (Less than 1 year), Jasmine/Karma (Less than 1 year), Continuous Integration (1 year), Continuous Deployment (Less than 1 year), Javascript, Spring, JQuery (2 years), Agile (4 years), MVC 5 (3 years), Spring security (Less than 1 year), Bitbucket (Less than 1 year), Visual Studio code (1 year), Splunk (1 year), Jira (1 year), OAUTH2 (Less than 1 year), Open ID Connect (Less than 1 year), Kendo UI (2 years), TDD (4 years), NUNIT (4 years), Rhinomocks (4 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/athulrajanletha Assessments Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient May 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jfd-u7j-n4y5qsgz Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages: C#- 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0  Web Technologies: ASP.NET(C#), Angular 6, HTML5, CSS, MVC5, Rest-API, Java Script, Bootstrap, OAuth2  with JWT, Open ID Connect, LINQ, Entity Framework  Database: SQL Server 2005, 2008, Oracle, PostgreSQL  Design patterns: IoC with/without Unity Container, SOLID Principles, DI  Tools/ IDE: Visual Studio 2008, 2013, 2015, 2017, Visual Studio Code, Postman, Jira, Splunk,  Resharper, Kanban, KendUI, ServiceNow, Confluence, SourceTree, BrowserStack  Source Control: TFS, Git with Bitbucket, VSS  CI/CD: Octopus, Visual Studio TFS - XAML based and Web-based build definitions  Design Tools: HTML5, CSS, Responsive designs(Bootstrap)  Scripting Language: Java Script, jQuery, Node.js, Angular 6, TypeScript  TDD: NUnit, MS Test, Rhino mocks, JUnit, Mockito