Sr. Software Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Software Developer - RxCrossroads • Over 8 Years of software development experience in analysis, design, development, testing, support and implementation MVC/N-tier Intranet/Web Based Applications.  • Expertise in developing Web applications in ASP.NET MVC, Windows applications, Web Services using Microsoft Technologies. Also having an experience to work in VB 6.0.  • Experience in REST API and Asynchronous call back with JSON.  • Working knowledge of AWS Lambda Framework.  • Experience in Windows and Web Application using .NET Framework 4.5, 4.0, 3.5, 3.0 & 2.0, C#.NET, ASP.NET, VB.NET, WCF SOAP and REST services, Web Services (WSDL, UDDI, DISCO, and SOAP), ADO.NET, and MS SQL Server.  • Experience on Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) REST and SOAP services.  • Worked with Multi Threading and Multi Language operations.  • Developed XML, XAML, XSLT, DHTML, HTML5 and JQUERY.  • Worked in of all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC): requirements gathering, analysis, design, development, testing, production and documentation. Excellent command in software modeling using OOADM.  • Knowledge of Microservices.  • Experience designing and building complete ETL/SSIS processes moving and transforming data.  • Data Migration from Access, Excel, and Text files to SQL server using SSIS.  • Worked on C# WPF Application.  • Worked in Data Modeling tools like MS Visio.  • Working experience in MULESOFT.  • In-depth experience developing applications using AJAX, Silverlight.  • Excellent working and implementation knowledge in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOA & D)  • Expertise in Database design and implementation on MS SQL Server 2012, MS SQL Server 2008/2005 including the use of Database Schemas, T-SQL objects like Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Views.  • Working knowledge of jQuery, Java Script, Angular JS.  • Experience in developing and deploying reports using Crystal Reports 10/9/8.5 and Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Managing the configuration and controlling the versions of the application under development using Microsoft Visual Source Safe (VSS), Team Foundation Server (TFS), Tortoise SVN.  • Used Jenkins and Datical tools for DevOps.  • Basic knowledge of Docker Container.  • Excellent leadership quality.  • Knowledge .Net Core.  • Knowledge of Amazon Web services.  • Excellent working and implementation knowledge in Telerik and Redgate Controls.  • Basic Knowledge of Adobe Photoshop.  • Knowledge of DIV and Table base CSS Structure Creation.  • Knowledge of Integration for Facebook graph API, Twitter Widgets, Four Square API.  • Integration of Payment Gateways like EVO Credit cards, PayPal.  • Excellent Written, Analytical Skills, Verbal Communication skills with a customer service-oriented attitude and worked with the offshore team as onsite coordinator to provide the update on the daily basis.  • Worked closely with end users, business unit managers and others to understand and prioritize business goals and information needs, data extraction and collection, develop business requirements, system requirements and design specifications, quality plans, and implementation plans. Work Experience Sr. Software Developer RxCrossroads May 2018 to Present Description: RxCrossroads provides commercial support, customized pharmacy dispensing and logistics services to pharmaceutical and biotechnology manufacturers.    RxCrossroads' focus on collaborative, cross-functional work groups, representing a range of industry knowledge that identifies clear-cut solutions for the complex challenges faced by specialty products.    Responsibilities:  • Used ASP.NET and SQL Server 2008 for developing the application.  • Worked on legacy application to migrate to latest .net framework, provide Production support of legacy applications.  • Migrate existing WCF application to Web API, worked on Restful web API.  • Worked on Veracode for performance tuning and resolve problems.  • Worked on Qualiscan to resolve the view functionality.  • Demonstrate UI modules to business users as per the SCRUM to review and feedback.  • Participated in full development life-cycle using Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) concepts and Agile SCRUM.  • Involved in SDLC in whole project, in Analysis, design and Development  • Created new and modified existing stored procedures and functions for the system enhancement.  • Implementing Models, Views and Controllers in ASP.Net MVC 4.0.  • Used jQuery and JavaScript for validation control.  • Designed and Developed Web forms using ASP.NET, Ajax update panel, CSS.  • Standardizing UI development processes across teams focused on improve performance.  • Involved in creating POCs for new ideas using Angular and typescript.  • Used Microsoft Team Foundation Server (TFS) and GIT Repository to manage the team's software development lifecycle including deriving product backlog items, assigning sprint work items to developers and conducting sprint review meetings  • Used Web API for common functionalities.  • Used Moq for Mock Unit Testing.  • Built in Dependency Injection with .Net Core.  • Knowledge of Microsoft Azure Cloud Platform.  • Re write stored procedure for performance tuning  • Worked on Stored Procedures and User Defined Functions which are used in SSIS Packages.  • Worked on complex stored procedure using SQL server.  • Created and managed existing SSIS Packages to extract existing data from legacy applications.  • Implemented CRUD functionality with Entity framework in ASP.NET MVC and implemented sorting, filtering and paging.  • Knowledge developing application using Microservices.  • Worked extensively on Integration and Scalability projects to support existing Applications.  • Review, refractor and Approve other developers code before merging in to branch as per SCRUM.    Environment: .Net Framework 4.0, C#, MVC 4/5, Web API 2.0, WCF, Entity Framework 5, Visual Studio 2015,2013, SQL server 2008, SSRS Reporting Services. Sr. Software Developer Athene, IA February 2016 to March 2018 Description: Athene Trade Order Management is a front office as well as middle office tool used by Athene USA, it's an in house, custom built, derivatives platform; whose primary function is to efficiently hedge Athene's insurance products and manage the derivative trades through the entire trading lifecycle.    Its main functions are Trade Decision and Hedging, Trade Processing, Post Execution and Analytics, Analytics solutions, it also includes Bloomberg Data Feeds, GTSS via FX Connect, MarkitSERV and PAM.    Responsibilities:  • Used ASP.NET and Sql Server 2008 for developing the application.  • Demonstrate UI modules to business users as per the SCRUM to review and feedback.  • Participated in full development life-cycle using Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) concepts and Agile SCRUM.  • Created various web Services, WCF services and consumed those services from the client UI by adding web reference for the services.  • Worked on HTML5 for Designing and enhancement of Web application.  • Created Reusable components with HTML5.  • Involved in SDLC in whole project, in Analysis, design and Development  • Created new and modified existing stored procedures and functions for the system enhancement.  • Implementing Models, Views and Controllers in ASP.Net MVC 4.0.  • Used JQuery and JavaScript for validation control.  • Designed and Developed Web forms using ASP.NET, Ajax update panel, CSS.  • Standardizing UI development processes across teams focused on improve performance.  • Involved in creating POCs for new ideas using Angular and typescript.  • Used Angular for the development of new UI pages in the application.  • Worked on MuleSoft, used encryption and decryption, File Operation, Apache ActiveMQ for Message Queuing, worked on AnyPoint Studio to use web services, created proxy to call Restful API and WSDL, deployed in CloudHub, in MuleSoft.  • Used Microsoft Team Foundation Server (TFS) and GIT Repository to manage the team's software development lifecycle including deriving product backlog items, assigning sprint work items to developers and conducting sprint review meetings  • Used Web Api for common functionalities.  • Used Ninject for Dependency Injection.  • Used Moq for Mock Unit Testing.  • Knowledge of monitoring, logging and cost management tools that integrate with AWS.  • Used Datical and Jenkins to Build and deploy code.  • Worked extensively with SQL server for Stored Procedures.  • Worked on Stored Procedures and User Defined Functions which are used in SSIS Packages.  • Implemented Data Integration with SSIS Packages.  • Developed SSIS templates which can be used to create SSIS Packages.  • Created and managed existing SSIS Packages to extract existing data from legacy applications.  • Implemented CRUD functionality with Entity framework in ASP.NET MVC and implemented sorting, filtering and paging.  • Used Microsoft Entity Framework Code First approach for the Data Access Layer and defined entities that are used for data access ASP.NET MVC application.  • Review, refractor and Approve other developers code before merging in to branch as per SCRUM.  • Agile methodology for requirement and bug tracking used JIRA.    Environment: .Net Framework 4.0, C#, MVC 4/5, Web API 2.0, WCF, Entity Framework 5, Visual Studio 2015,2013, Sql server 2008, SSRS Reporting Services. Sr. Software Developer Kotak Mahindra Bank - Mumbai, Maharashtra December 2013 to December 2015 Description: It's an online Bank Application which helps bank for their internal Workflow Process, there are different modules like Inward Remittance, Outward Remittance, Loan Processing, Digitizing, Bill Collection, Easy Tracking of Documentation and Deferrals, The application is integrated with Tibco Iprocess Engine for the management of Workflow, and Application is also integrated with barcode Scanner for rapid process of the Transactions used WEBAPI to get the data from Webserver.    Responsibilities:  • Used ASP.NET and Oracle 10g for developing the application.  • Participated in System Study and Requirement Gathering.  • Participated in designing a Database in Oracle 10g.  • Created WCF services and consumed those services from the UI.  • Implementing Models, Views and Controllers in ASP.Net MVC 4.0.  • Used jQuery and JavaScript for validation control.  • Used Team Foundation Server for versioning.  • Used WebAPI for several services.  • Created RESTful WEBAPI.  • Implemented CRUD functionality with Entity framework in ASP.NET MVC and implemented sorting, filtering and paging.  • Used Microsoft Entity Framework Code First approach for the Data Access Layer and defined entities that are used for data access ASP.NET MVC application.  • Consumed WCF Service Methods using the HTTP Binding.  • Designed and Developed Web forms using CSS.  • Created REST API to fetch the data and consume them on html page  • Involved in quick fix and permanent fix.  • Involved in Testing for the enhanced modules.  • Creation of Stored procedures for SSRS Reports.  • Integration with Tibco Iprocess Engine.  • Managed and administered multiple web sites/web applications using IIS.  • TDD for data layer and web API.  • Used TFS as source system.  • Conducted peer code reviews.    Environment: Visual Studio 2012, C#.Net, Entity Framework, Oracle 10g, SSRS Reporting Services, WCF, MVC 4.0, jQuery, JavaScript, WEBAPI, AJAX, ADO.net. Sr. Software Developer Pike Solution Pvt Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra July 2012 to December 2013 Description: L2RTCS (LEVEL 2 REAL TIME COORDINATING SYSTEM) Application is used by Steel Manufacturing Industry. The System is integration of Cold Leveler, Cooling Bed, Divide Shear, Down Coiler Marking, Edge Milling, Final Inspection, Final Marking Punching and Gas Cutting dialogs. L2RTCS System is Sync with Level 1 Application and Level3 Application.  Level 1 Application is directly associating with Steel Plant and it operates from Steel equipment  Level 3 Application helps top management to take Strategic Decision and planning.    Responsibilities:  • Developed front-end Web forms for the user interface using ASP.NET by using C# as a language  • Developed visual components through WPF using XAML.  • Worked individually to fulfil user's technical requirements with minimal support.  • Involved in requirement gathering & analysis of an application.  • Have visited Czech Republic (Central Europe) twice for understanding project requirements by client.  • Written and implement stored procedures in Oracle.  • Used Visual Tortoise SVN for versioning control.  • Involved in bug fixing  • Worked with Product Manager to hash out requirements and helped bridge the gap between business requirements and technical implementation.  • Coding for various Modules, Error Handling, Modification and Testing.  • Worked Extensively with Query Optimization Techniques to Fetch Data with better Performance Tuning.    Environment: Visual Studio 2010, C#, WPF, ASP.NET, Oracle 10g, Software Developer American Tower Corporation - Mumbai, Maharashtra October 2011 to June 2012 Description: Oracle E Business Suite is an ERP System, and with the customization option we can customize the application as per the business requirement. Have individually developed custom reports for Property and Account Receivable modules in American Tower Corporation; and personalized OA Forms in Oracle E Business Suite.    Responsibilities:  • Working closely with Project Functional Consultants and Team Leader.  • Attending weekly Meetings with Project Manager.  • Analysis of allotted Tickets from Team Leader, meet and understand the exact requirement from functional user, develop the solution / troubleshoot the issues and resolve to the satisfaction of user and close.  • Worked Extensively with Query Optimization Techniques to Fetch Data with better Performance Tuning.  • Development of custom reports, carryout personalization of OA forms in Oracle.  • Attending weekly Meetings with functional users for addressing concerns and understands future requirements.  Environment: Oracle 10 g, Oracle Forms, OA Framework. Software Developer Anant Softech Pvt Ltd - Ahmedabad, Gujarat June 2010 to September 2011 Description: It is a web-based POS. It has all the features that a POS contains such as inventory management, customer management, vendors, etc. Being web-based software, it also supports all the client-side hardware integration, such as Receipt Printers, Signature Pads, Serial Communication Ports, and Cash Drawers etc. It has dynamic database creation facility, by which any new owner can create the whole database with tables and procedure in their own Sql server and each multi store can maintain its own database and the database load will be less.    Responsibilities:  • Worked as a Software Engineer. Responsible for requirements gathering, analysis and creating Design and Coding.  • Use Object Oriented Design Methodology for designing project.  • Used Microsoft Visio for creating Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Sequence diagrams in UML.  • Used Telerik controls.  • Worked voluntarily to avoid SQL injection from application.  • Involved in testing and bug fixing.  • Worked on Internationalization.  • Created test cases for system (Use black box and white box testing).  • Prepared training slides for user.  • Developing and deploying reports using Crystal Reports 10/9/8.5  • Utilized the Visual Source Safe to keep track of new and past version of code written  in application.  • Involved in deployment and post production support for the application.    Environment: Visual Studio 2008, VB.net, SQL Server 2005/2008, VSS Client, Ms-Visio 2000, Crystal Reports. Education Bachelor of Computer Application in Computer Application Gujarat University 2005 Skills .net, Api, C#, C++, Jenkins, Javascript Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/dipamzaveri