Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Microsoft(Non-Managed) Redmond, WA • Software Developer with 7 years of experience in System Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation in developing Enterprise-level Web application using N-tier Architecture involving all stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Capable of developing both client and server portions of large or small applications.  • Experienced in a fast-paced Agile Development Environment including Scrum Programming.  • Technical expertise in Microsoft Technologies, such as .NET Framework(3.0/3.5/4.0/4.5/4.7), ASP.NET, ASP.NET MVC, C#, VB.NET, Web Services, WCF, Web API, LINQ, Entity Framework, IIS, SOAP, XML, DOM, HTML, Java Script , Type Script, Visual Studio 2017/2015/2013/2010, AJAX, ADO.Net.  • Basic knowledge of .Net core.  • Experienced in development of Web Applications using MVC 4.0  • Good working knowledge in using java script libraries like React.js and Angular, Angular JS  • Extensive knowledge of C# object-oriented programming language concepts like Abstraction, Polymorphism, Inheritance and Encapsulation.  • Implemented code version Maintenance/tracking using Team Foundation Server (TFS).  • Good working knowledge of Database Design and Development which includes creating indexes, triggers, writing stored procedures, views and performance tuning using SQL server.  • Knowledge of using cloud services for an application by using Azure.  • Efficient Team Player having Strong Communication Skills and problem-solving skills. Work Experience Software Developer Microsoft - Redmond, WA March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Gathering Client requirements and converting them into the Technical Specifications and developed application.  ? C#.NET is used to program business logic including Code-behind files and Classes in the middle tier.  ? To create the services, use ASP.Net Web API which uses REST architecture and consume all the http verbs supported by REST  ? Create the controllers and specify routes for each method to use it at another end point(client).  ? Use the SQL commands/Stored Procedures and define in the middle tier to get the data. Make the async/sync calls when call the data from backend for parallel calls and return the JSON data.  ? Use Azure Data Explorer(Kusto) for some of the functions to get the data.  ? Use the java script library React JS to implement the User Interface.  ? To show the data on the UI make an API call Using AJAX, once after getting the data code the data using JSX to make the dashboards and reports of the customer.  ? Use Cascading Style Sheet(CSS) to add the styling for HTML elements.  ? Deploy the cloud services using Azure and use storage explorer to manage blobs, create tables.  ? Monitor PROD/Dev environments using Geneva, work on ICMs in case of there is any failures.  Environment: Visual Studio 2017, Visual Studio Code, HTML, CSS, TFS, React.js, J Query, High charts, backbone, ES6, C#, ASP.Net Web API 2.0, .Net Framework 4.7, ASP.Net Core, Azure, VSO, SQL 2016 Software Developer Virtual Labs - Redmond, WA September 2017 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Gathering Client requirements and converting them into the Technical Specifications and developed application.  ? Followed AGILE/SCRUM methodology for the implementation.  ? Working on Angular for the implementation of UI.  ? Using HTML, CSS technologies for developing UI.  ? C#.NET is used to program business logic including Code-behind files, Audit Plugins and Classes in the middle tier.  ? Consuming Web APIs with REST for retrieving data.  ? For the database using SQL server to maintain application data    Environment: Visual Studio 2015, HTML, CSS, TFS, Angular, J Query, C#, Web API, SQL 2016 .Net Developer Dal-Tile - Dallas, TX November 2016 to August 2017 Involved in design and development of the Décor application  ? Followed AGILE Methodology  ? Created a rich using Angular, HTML, CSS and Bootstrap to support all devices  ? Developed controllers and its action methods for the entire workflow for the application with ASP.Net MVC  ? Involved in writing the validation code in ASP.Net using C# upon accepting the user name and password, setting cookies and display the home page  ? Designed and developed various Abstract Classes, Interfaces, Inheritance to construct the business logic  ? Written ADO.Net code for the data connection between application code and SQL Server data base  ? Designed and developed schema for the SQL database, involved in creating tables, views and stored procedures for the project.  ? Worked on creating SQL agent jobs, generating temporary password pin for login authentication.  ? Maintenance and production support once the component is live, worked on bugs based on priority    Environment: C#, ASP.Net MVC 4.5, .Net Core, Visual Studio 2015, Angular, Type script, Bootstrap, CSS3, JSON, AJAX, ADO.Net, Web services, REST, TFS, SQL Server 2008. Software Developer Microsoft - Bellevue, WA November 2015 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Gathering Client requirements and converting them into the Technical Specifications and developed application.  ? Responsible for implementing the features based on the customer priority, Integration of various modules with CRM application.  ? Worked for the changes related to Server Side Synchronization module.  ? Used AGILE/SCRUM methodology to implement the application  ? C#.NET is used to program business logic including Code-behind files, Audit Plugins and Classes in the middle tier.  ? Used HTML5 tags such as header, aside, section and CSS3 modules such as Backgrounds, Borders, Text Effects, Multiple Column Layout to create UI of Microsoft Dynamic CRM Web site.  ? Consumed Web API services using REST for retrieving the application data  ? Explored various performance related issues and worked to increase the performance by handling various bug fixes and exceptions.  ? Used SQL Server 2012 for the data base and to perform CRUD operations  ? Used Azure Key Vaults to secure the connection string and passwords.  ? Performed the testing by deploying the changes in test environments and used the test environments to debug the code.  Environment: Visual Studio 2013, C#, Asp.Net, CSS3, Angular JS, Java script, Typescript, Azure SQL, Web API, REST, ADO.Net, PowerShell, Asp.net MVC, Entity Framework, SQL Server 2012, GIT, VSO. .Net Developer Barclays - Dallas, TX January 2015 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in all phases of the application development from business requirements analysis, design, development, and testing of the application and employed several design patterns and MS best practices.  ? Involved in design of ER Diagrams, work flow diagrams, technical documents for various modules according to business requirements using Microsoft Visio.  ? Developed Razor views with strongly typed view models and helpers and partial views using ASP.NET MVC4, HTML 5, CSS3, Bootstrap, J Query, VisualStudio2013.  ? Designed, developed WCF Services using C# and Hosted on IIS  ? Worked on SOAP to provide simple and rich XML messaging framework.  ? Designed data access layer using Entity Framework to perform CRUD operations.  ? Integrated membership provider based authentication and authorization for various actions in controllers.  ? Designed Tables, Views and created relationships among entities using SQL server 2013  ? Done unit testing and integration testing and Testing of database, queries optimization and performance.  ? Fixing bugs reported by QA and performed unit testing using Microsoft Unit Test. Used Team Foundation Server(TFS) for source control and documented the entire application.  Environment: C#, Visual Studio 2013, AJAX, J Query, ASP.NET MVC3.0, web Services, JSON, LINQ, Entity Framework, Razor View, WCF, IIS6, MS Unit Testing Framework, SQL Server 2013, SSRS, SSIS TFS. Graduate Assistant University of Central Missouri - Warrensburg, MO January 2014 to December 2014 University of Central Missouri is a state university which provides many courses for the graduates. It allows students to enter their courses, check their grades and many of their data etc.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in maintaining the university site for University of Central Missouri  ? Worked on HTML, Java Script for the design and interactive web response  ? Worked on ASP.Net web forms for the development of web application  ? Used C# for the implementation  ? Used CSS for the styling of web site.  ? Worked on LINQ and Entity Framework for maintaining the connection with Database  ? Used SVN version control.  ? Involved in trouble shooting the application to find the issues and solve them    Environment: C#, Visual Studio 2013, LINQ, SVN, Entity Framework, IIS6, HTML, JavaScript, CSS Intern/ Software Developer Axel Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2012 to November 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in different phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Designing, Programming, Testing and Documentation.  ? Analyzed and designed approaches using UML use case diagrams, class diagrams, state diagrams, and activity diagrams.  ? Implemented the presentation layer (UI) using Master Pages, HTML, CSS, XML and JavaScript using ASP.Net Web Forms.  ? Involved in implementing win forms.  ? Worked with Grid Controls, sever controls to meet the client requirements.  ? Contributed significantly to design of the object model in the middle tier.  ? Used ADO.Net objects such as Data Adapter, Data Reader and Dataset for data access.  ? Fixed the bugs and extended the functionality for existing applications.    Environment: Visual Studio 2010, Win forms, ASP.NET 2.0, VB.Net, ADO.NET, HTML, JavaScript, MS SQL Server 2005, Windows XP. Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Central Missouri 2015 Skills .net, Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, Api, C#, Git, Html, Json, Middleware, Wcf, Reporting tools, Vb.net, Visio, Asp, Css, Asp.net, Web services, Ado, Ado.net, Sql server Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE    Programming Languages C, C#,VB.Net  Microsoft Framework .Net Framework (4.7, 4.5, 4.0, 3.5), ADO.Net, Entity Framework (4, 5, 6)  Web Technologies ASP.Net MVC, ASP.Net Web Forms, CSS, HTML, IIS7, JQuery, Java Script, JSON, Angular, React.js  Data Bases My SQL, SQL Server (2008, 2010, 2012, 2016),  Reporting Tools SQL Server Reporting Service (SSRS), Crystal Reports  Middleware REST&SOAP Web Services, WCF, Web API.  Agile Tools Scrum Do, JIRA  Version Control GIT, Team Foundation Server (TFS) 2013, VSO  IDE Microsoft Visual Studio (2010, 2012, 2013, 2015, 2017), SQL Server Management Studio  Modeling Tools Microsoft Visio, UML