Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> PHP Web and Hybrid Mobile App Developer with more than 5 years of extensive experience in developing a wide range of Web and Mobile application I am seeking opportunities to work remotely and Provide quality services and establish a long term relationship. Gurgaon PHP, Hybrid Mobile App, Progressive web App, WordPress developer specializing in all types of Mobile, Web applications and plugin development. Experienced with all stages of the development cycle for dynamic web and mobile app projects. Extensive experience in API Integration, Testing, Debugging and Documentation. Work Experience Software Developer Remote Work May 2013 to Present I am PHP Web and Hybrid Mobile App Developer with more than 5 years of extensive experiences in developing a wide range of Web and Mobile application.     My range of PHP Web development is CMS ( WordPress, Drupal ) and Framework( Codeigniter, Cake PHP ).     I am expert in WordPress include creating templates, Woo Commerce plugin customization, other plugin customization, design services include creating a design for new apps (or a new design to improve existing ones), and redesigning websites or adapting to mobile and responsive design.    Education Bachelor's Skills PHP (5 years), Wordpress (5 years), HTML 5 (4 years), Drupal (2 years), CSS3 (5 years), Angular (2 years), Jquery, Javascript, HTML5, Angularjs, Front End, Bootstrap, HTML, C# Links https://join.skype.com/invite/IDdf5Q9ngphC Additional Information My range of PHP Web development is CMS ( WordPress, Drupal ) and Framework( Codeigniter, Cake PHP ).     I am expert in WordPress include creating templates, Woo Commerce plugin customization, other plugin customization, design services include creating a design for new apps (or a new design to improve existing ones), and redesigning websites or adapting to mobile and responsive design.     I am an individual who personally works for you and not a company where you discuss things with a person who actually is not working on your tasks.     Area of Speciality:     HTML/XHTML  HTML5  CSS3  Responsive Design  Ajax  jQuery  PHP  WordPress PSD to Theme   WordPress Theme development & customizationWordPress Plugin development & customization  Drupal  Cake PHP  Code Igniter  MySQL  Web Services REST/JSON based.  Asynchronous and synchronous API calls  JSON, XML Parsing  Google Maps, Geolocation live tracking.  Push Notification, Local Notification.  In-App Purchase  Firebase  Health Kit  Fitbit  Webrtc.     I can start your project immediately and kindly let me know if you would like to discuss anything further with me.   