Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer Sandy Springs, GA Skilled software developer experienced in creating and maintaining Javascript applications. Six years' development experience with four years' experience in front end Javascript development along with HTML5 and CSS/SASS. Skilled at design driven development, finding root causes of code defects, and implementing fixes. Work Experience Software Engineer Aptean - Alpharetta, GA April 2016 to August 2019 • Worked with quality assurance and customers to resolve technical issues.  • Created Javascript form renderer using Sencha framework for existing desktop application to enable customers to move to a web-based SaaS implementation.  • Created specific Javascript renderer to be used as a web application for hand scanner devices on factory floors.  • Integrated multiple package-based applications with my form rendering package to create full customer applications.  • Worked with Product Managers to assess and resolve issues on customer implementations.  • Worked with Product Managers to implement new customer requested features.  • Managed multiple build scripts to keep build server up to date.  • Worked closely with UX Designers to ensure the product stayed up to date with industry standards and to modernize some older functionality.  • Provided knowledge transfers and instruction to new developers on the team in both the United States and India. Junior Software Developer Aptean - Alpharetta, GA September 2013 to April 2016 • Complete 10 week bootcamp for java development.  • Developed code fixes and enhancements for inclusion in future code releases and patches.  • Developed analytics applications to add to existing products.  • Worked as part of a team to develop a stand alone app for an existing application designed for specific customer roles.  • Worked on multiple POCs to later be implemented within or as a new application.  • Resolved Android and iOS specific issues for an application built with Phonegap (later updated to Cordova). Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Georgia College and State University - Milledgeville, GA 2009 to 2013 Skills Html5 (4 years), Mvc, Sass, Sencha (4 years), Javascript (4 years), Css (4 years), Java, Sql, Goal oriented, Detail oriented, Training, Problem solving