Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Software Developer - Lowe's Companies, Inc Newton, NC I am a results-driven programmer with over 7 years of dedicated practice and study of complex programming languages and techniques (including Android, Java, C#, VB, .Net etc.). I enjoy working in teams and I excel in collaborative environments. I frequently have been assigned with code change requests, enhancements, maintenance, and documentation. I believe that it is essential to write good quality code. I always document my logic/code, so that the application can be easily modified as needed. Work Experience Senior Software Developer Technatomy Corporation - Newton, NC December 2015 to Present • Developed application specific Java test automation framework code for client using Rational Functional Tester along with an Enterprise framework using industry standards and best practices  • Worked with quality engineers to educate on coding standards and resolve issues testing scripts  • Identified requirements and developed multi-dimensional cubes for Microsoft SQL database for Microsoft SQL automation reporting database for executions scripts ran and requirements of testing  • Operated in an agile team to develop and test code written to maximize business requested features in an efficient and timely manner  • Identified metrics needed and worked with management to develop dashboards in Pyramid Analytics  Senior Software Developer ASM Research - Newton, NC May 2015 to December 2015 • Developed application specific Java test automation framework code for client using Rational Functional Tester along with an Enterprise framework using industry standards and best practices  • Worked with quality engineers to educate on coding standards and resolve issues testing scripts  • Identified requirements and developed multi-dimensional cubes for Microsoft SQL database for Microsoft SQL automation reporting database for executions scripts ran and requirements of testing  • Operated in an agile team to develop and test code written to maximize business requested features in an efficient and timely manner  • Developed application specific Java test automation framework code for client using Rational Functional Tester along with an Enterprise framework using industry standards and best practices  • Worked with quality engineers to educate on coding standards and resolve issues testing scripts  • Identified requirements and developed multi-dimensional cubes for Microsoft SQL database for Microsoft SQL automation reporting database for executions scripts ran and requirements of testing  • Operated in an agile team to develop and test code written to maximize business requested features in an efficient and timely manner  Software Developer Lowe's Companies, Inc - Mooresville, NC June 2012 to May 2015 Identified the hardware requirements, installed, and configured code quality tools (Jenkins to automate SonarQube scanning)  ? Worked with Management across the Enterprise to establish the coding standards that are being enforced to ensure quality code  ? Identify the hardware and software requirements for the Informatica Test Data Management and Power Center Production environment including all of the databases and servers needed to ensure the project delivers efficiently and in a timely manner  ? Setup Development to Production processes and procedures so that Informatica "best practices" are adhered to ? Led technical workshops for the Test Data Management development team to aid in their technical understanding of the technologies they were using (Linux, Bash Scripting, etc)    Programmer (C#) / Technical Release Manager for Lowes.com  ? Designed, developed and implemented a C# end-to-end solution for automating metrics and reporting for the Development Control Services (Dev Ops) team at Lowe's  ? Developed a C# application to support Disaster Recovery exercises at Lowe's (eliminated the need for manual server mapping efforts)  ? Developed and implemented C# applications for the DCS, Lowes.com, and Service Platform Release ----6 (Sterling Commerce) environment teams that enabled real-time dashboard information and monitoring to ensure client needs are being met  ? Maintained a SharePoint solution (service request ticketing system) used to track Development/Test/Quality (DTQ) service requests  ? Developed a change and release calendar for Lowes.com to aid the visibility of deployments into DTQ development environments and reduce risks of code contention between development teams  ? Coordinated outages in DTQ environments with project managers, support staff, and stakeholders  ? Developed a complex C# operational dashboard to communicate defects, changes and program status for management, development teams, and other stakeholders  ? Coordinated environment DTQ environment, code and configuration changes (CIT, SIT, UAT etc.) with multiple development teams and worked to ensure environmental stability  Programmer (Java)  ? Lead developer/architect for Lowe's (Java) Tradestone application. I was responsible for modifying upload utilities to meet business needs including creating complex DB2 database connections for custom data validation.  ? Wrote automated Visual Basic Scripts to parse mailbox messages to identify important business driven data errors  ? Worked with business customers to identify system generated error messages and worked to resolve data inconsistencies Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Appalachian State University - Boone, NC December 2011 Skills Linux, Java Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/TravisRudisill