Contract Architect Contract Architect Contract Architect Work Experience Contract Architect Infinity Car Insurance - Birmingham, AL October 2017 to April 2018 Technology: Java, Spring, Spring boot, TypeScript, Docker  Java developer/architect role to rebuild of aging web services with micro services using Spring Boot, Netflix stack, and test-driven development practices. Worked on ping-pong pairing practices to  develop single responsibility throughout code base to build on best practices and modular code  bases. Mentored developers new to TDD and helped write failed unit tests that were tied to definitions of done. Software Developer Logistics Health - La Crosse, WI March 2017 to November 2017 Technology: C#, .NET, REST API Development, Java, Spring, Spring boot, Ractive.JS, TypeScript, Docker  Frontend developer using Angular and C# to rebuild of a web application allowing military personal to view schedule, conduct, and follow-up any medical appointment within an Angular driven web  dashboard. Made primary use of the Angular 2 CLI, CSS, VbScript .NET, and SQL Server. Project was  being moved to C# and WebAPI back-end. Helped initiate some TDD practices in Jazmine, writing  Angular based unit tests, and refactoring the code coupled to unit tests. Executed, designed, and installed Ruby based Capistrano scripts to automate remote servers for purposes of facilitating  Jenkins based built steps. Software Developer Bigr.IO/Resolute - Cambridge, MA July 2016 to September 2017 Management, Cambridge, Massachusetts  Technology: C#, .NET, REST API Development, Java, Spring, Spring boot, Ractive.JS, TypeScript, Docker  Software Developer, July 2016 - September 2017  Small project to rebuild an aging claim management web application for Asbestos related injuries and insurance payouts. Resolute Management was owned and directed by Berkshire Hathaway.  Recruited by Massachusetts Institute of Technology ("MIT") firm BigR.IO to contribute when a senior  developer left the team. Remote contract from Saint Paul, MN. Lead Software Developer Trane - White Bear Lake, MN July 2016 to March 2017 Technology: Java, Spring, Spring boot, Ractive.JS, REST API Development, TypeScript, Docker, Groovy, Spock  Java developer/architect role to rebuild of a web application allowing building personal to login to any Trane equipped building throughout the US. Used Spring boot and implemented Information of  Things ("IOT") technology that brings buildings to life, allowing users to change air flow  configurations, etc. Java REST ("Representational State Transfer") API consumption and proprietary  based firmware within each Trane building device. Executed, designed, and installed Ruby based  Chef and Capistrano scripts to automate remote servers for purposes of facilitating Jenkins based  built steps. Software Developer Patterson - Mendota Heights, MN December 2015 to July 2016 Technology: C#, .NET, REST API Development, Docker, Angular  Rebuild of a dental application in .NET. Made primary use of Microsoft Azure, WebAPI, LINQ, C#, and SQL Server. Totally TDD practice arena where unit tests were written before feature completion and  teams were paired together to ensure best practices. Mostly used NUnit for writing tests, mocked out dependency injected interfaces, etc. Executed, designed, and installed Ruby based Chef  cookbook scripts to automate remote servers for purposes of facilitating Jenkins based built steps. Software Developer Bluestem Brands - Eden Prairie, MN January 2015 to January 2016 Technology: REST API Development, Java, Spring, Spring boot, Knockout.JS, Groovy, Spock, Riak, Docker, Jenkins  Full stack senior Java developer role to contribute to the checkout team productivity. The team, comprised of two developers, managed the workflow for all checkout, billing, and sign-on features.  The agile team consisted of a project manager, a product owner, BA, QA, and developers. Built two- factor authentication for the billion-dollar platform using Telesign, Knockout.JS, and Java. Helped  build tax/shipping microservice using J2EE Java, Docker, Jenkins, and Riak noSQL key-value database.  Each sprint lasted two weeks and developers were assigned 2-3 tasks per week. Made use of Knockout.JS, Java, Maven, and Docker. Built the instant sign-on feature for fingerhut.com. There  was some TDD mid-stream and worked towards developing practice of 'definition of done' to ensure  failed unit tests were written prior to starting a feature. This can be viewed online:  https://drive.google.com/open?id=1QQsMq94UpaZdwOkTVZkV-GJII3AdjNZ4 Software Developer Cachet Financial - Chanhassen, MN February 2014 to February 2015 Technology: C#, .NET, REST API Development, Docker, Angular  Led a very small team to build a check scanning application for small credit unions. Used .NET/C#  with Nancy and proprietary licensed software like MITEK to complete transactions through the Automatic Clearing House (ACH) Federal Reserve network. Hired a few developers while  interviewing several more. Software Developer Thomson Reuters - Eagan, MN July 2013 to February 2014 Technology: REST API Development, Java, Spring, Spring boot, Groovy  Helped build a Facebook like web application for WestLaw. Expert witnesses, judges, and attorney  profiles. For example, collected all relevant data pertaining to individual profiles e.g., education, location, professional associations, addresses, clerks, judicial decisions, etc. Used mostly Groovy,  Java2EE, Oracle, Maven, Spring, etc. Software Developer Inergize Digital - Bloomington, MN January 2013 to July 2013 Technology: C#, .NET, REST API Development, Docker, Angular  Rebuild of content management system for small news stations to publish local articles. Used  Knockout.JS, WebAPI, Jenkins, and transitioned to AngularJS with vanilla JavaScript to build a single  page application (content management system). Inergize Digital was the web/ software offshoot of ClearChannel Communication and was later acquired. Automated QA Lead Wells Fargo Home Mortgage - Minneapolis, MN June 2012 to January 2013 Extended VBSCript based Quick Test Pro ("QTP") framework to thoroughly test and validate  mortgage modification. Recruited due to Magenic's implementation of the QTP based framework  and extended the architecture to validate various mortgage products (Fanny Mae, Freddie Mac, Wachovia, Lehman brother purchased loans) from Wells Fargo old aging mortgage mainframe  system. This included validating the PMI of various mortgage products through simulated mortgage  modifications to ensure needy and bankrupt families were able to modify their mortgage through a federal process setup by the Obama Administration. Sadly, this failed, in part, due to several  lawsuits based on software errors. See https://www.housingwire.com/articles/46372-wells-fargo- reveals- software-error-wrongly-denied-much-needed-mortgage-modifications Software Developer VISA - City, Minnesota, US June 2010 to June 2012 Technology: Java, Spring, REST API development, C#, .NET, REST API Development, Docker, Angular, WebSphere  Built a startup text message driven application allowing vendor attached customers to receive SMS  coupons upon any Visa transaction using real-time GPS services. Core application in .NET and related technologies including SQL Server and IBM WebSphere Message Queues. Assistant to the  former Director of Software Engineering and Lead Software Architect. Collected thousands of data  points per transaction to sell to retail vendors including GAP and Starbucks. Developer Nerdery - Bloomington, MN June 2008 to June 2010 June 2008 - June 2010  Contributed to small and medium-sized projects. Made use of CSS, JQuery, Ruby, .NET, and Java. Education M.S. in Software Engineering University of Saint Thomas - Saint Paul, MN 2010 BS in Computer Science Winona State University - Minneapolis, MN 2006 Apple Valley Senior High School - Apple Valley, MN 2002 Skills Visual studio, Api, C#, Cucumber, Design patterns, Docker, Front-end, Git, Gradle, Groovy, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Redux, Jenkins, Json, Lucene, Object oriented, Ruby Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages: JavaScript, C#, Java, Ruby  Back-End: Node.js, Express.js, Web API, Spring Boot, Netflix Stack  Front-End: HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, React.js, Redux, AngularJS, Post CSS  Tools: Selenium, TDD, Agile, Scrum, Docker, AWS, Azure, Jenkins, Chef, Capistrano, Amazon Web  Services, ActiveMQ, Apache, Puppet, Ansible, Bootstrap, A/B testing, HTML 5, NoSQL,  MongoDB, MVC, J2EE, SOAP, Agile, regression testing, PostgreSQL, Redis, Swagger, Twilio,  VirtualBox, Wireshark, Eclipse, Docker, Jenkins, GIT, Lucene, JSON, JQuery, PostCSS, LESS,  SASS, SDLC, Visual Studio, Visual Studio Code, SVN, ClearCase, DB2, MySQL, Oracle, UML,  Object Oriented, Backlog Grooming, Design Patterns, Gulp, Grunt, Exception Handling, Multi-  Threading, Concurrency, Microservices, Fiddler, IBM WebSphere, Nginx, Web Workers,  Metaprogramming, logging, Arrow Functions, Dependency Injection, Ninject, Simple Injector,  IOC, RESTful Web Services, Groovy, Spock, Cucumber, Unix, NUnit, JUnit, Refactoring, Gradle,  CI/CD, Microsoft Azure, Continuous Integration, Riak, Key-Value databases