Software Engineer / Contractor <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer / Contractor Software Engineer / Contractor - Dish Network Aurora, CO Work Experience Software Engineer / Contractor Dish Network - Denver, CO December 2018 to Present Developing a web application with Vue.js and ASP.net Core that decodes  transport streams from satellite feeds; processes this data utilizing a multiplexing capture card.  ? Maintaining and enhancing a full stack web application that provides a suite of automation tools for cable box testing teams.  ? Optimizing and maintaining CI/CD workflows with Bamboo deployments.  ? Mentoring intern employees on modern javascript frameworks, RESTFUL best  practices and full stack workflows. Software Developer CRIF Select Corp - Denver, CO November 2017 to December 2018 Developed full stack .NET Core applications with the Entity framework as well  as supporting existing systems with .NET legacy frameworks.  ? Lead large scale projects that interface with external web services and API's  to provide seamless integration between external customers, third party  vendors, and CRIF interal software.  ? Engaged with internal business users to determine and refine business  requirements, translating this information into architectural designs for the development team.  ? Collaborated with an international team of contractors, QA, and development  teams for daily Scrum meetings. Software Developer BridgeHealth - Denver, CO April 2016 to September 2017 Implemented ETL processes and procedures for new clients utilizing PL/SQL  and Oracle database.  ? Optimized legacy manual ETL and FTP processes with automated solutions  using C#, VBA scripting, and .NET APIs to streamline file ingestion.  ? Involved in the migration of legacy Oracle and PL/SQL transition to Azure  cloud environment with T/SQL and SSIS.  ? Deployed enterprise Git and TFS to track work processes and facilitate  collaboration.  ? Mentored team members in scripting, core C#, and object oriented  programming best practices. Software Developer Intern L-3 Communications - Cincinnati, OH June 2013 to June 2015 Developed full stack .NET applications to automate business processes and increase productivity.  ? Built and installed a security system with USB cameras utilizing .NET webcam  APIs, providing live streaming and video archives for the ordnance facility.  ? Developed a .NET application for the circuit board assembly teams to interface and measure various metrics of an embedded device via serial  communication.  ? Enhanced legacy UPC scanner interface for customers with ASP / VB.NET & jQuery enhancements. Education Bachelors in Arts of Communication in Computer University of Cincinnati - Cincinnati, OH September 2011 to December 2015 Skills Visual studio, Android studio, C#, Git, Javascript, MYSQL, HTML 5, ASP, Android, Jquery, vue, CSS