Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Jacksonville, FL Seasoned Information Technology Professional with a successful record of more than 5 years of professional experience and knowledge of software/database development and design, software requirements gathering and analysis and an in-depth knowledge and understanding of Software Development Life-cycle (SDLC). Complimented by excellent interpersonal skills including great written and verbal communication and coordination skills, customer management and resolution and technical problem solving and debugging, Particularly I have more than 4 years of experience in Design, Development, Implementation of Python, ODOO and client-server technologies-based applications in . Work Experience Software Developer The Parts House Acquisitions LLC - Jacksonville, FL July 2017 to Present • Create browser-based applications for inventory management, sales, delivery, purchasing and reporting using Python, ODOO, Javscript, HTML, XML, Jquery and CSS.  • Provide end-user training and support; respond to requests received from users via the Help Desk  and through the phone.  • Working with python bots server to translate the EDI 810 and EDI ASNs into XML and JSON formats.  • Writing python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in databases  • Using pyflame for the code profiling and optimization of the exiting ERP system.  • Utilize PostgreSQL log analysis tools for queries optimization and the tuning of existing databases.  • Using GitLab, Mercurial as version control.  • Utilize a strong understanding of Python, PostgreSQL, JavaScript, Jquery, AJAX and HTML.  • Writing and executing various PostgreSQL database queries from Python using Python-PostgreSQL connector and PostgreSQL db package  • Working in development of applications especially in LINUX environment and familiar with all commands.  • Implementing Import/Export feature to the ERP modules.  • Implementing the client code for consuming the REST Web Services.  • Perform troubleshooting, fix and deploy many Python bug fixes of the ERP application which is the source of data for the Accounting. Software Developer NETLINKS - Kabul, AF February 2014 to February 2017 • Design, develop, deploy, troubleshoot, and debug Frontend and Backend solutions.  • Performed requirement gathering & analysis for clients projects by evaluating their business processes and procedures..  • Contributed software engineering expertise in the development of products through the software lifecycle, from requirements definition through successful deployment.  • Development using object-oriented design.  • Designed database structures for different web applications in PostgreSQL.  • Prepared and analyzed reports using Python libraries and involved in environment Setup.  • Wrote Python scripts for extracting data/images from database.  • Attended ODOO & PostgreSQL database technical training and developed various applications and solutions using the ODOO framework.  • Reviewing the existing system.  • Developed integration portals using Python to provide interoperability between applications.  • Involved in developing, coding and testing software system for many small and medium projects.  • Involved in developing, coding of a National human resource and payroll management information system. Database Developer/Administrator Afghan Public Protection Force - Kabul May 2012 to January 2014 • Design architecture for the database high availability.  • Responsible for the daily database maintenance.  • Performing the database tuning/optimization, backup and recovery.  • Writing and running SQL queries, stored procedures, triggers and functions against the database.  • Designed database applications, such as end-user interfaces, automated data transfer mechanisms, temporary tables, data partitions, and function-based indexes to enable efficient access of the generic database structure  • Monitored and reported systems resource consumption trends to assure production systems meet availability requirements and hardware enhancements are scheduled appropriately.  • Monitoring performance and managing parameters to provide fast query responses to front-end users. Education Bachelor in Computer Science Kabul University - Kabul, AF 2011 Certifications/Licenses Associate Certification in PostgreSQL Server Present November 2015 to Present  EnterpriseDB, Corporate Headquarters - 34 Crosby Drive, Suite 201, Bedford, MA 01730,USA  2015 Certificate in ODOO 8 Present Serpant Consulting service - Ahmedabad, India  2015 Additional Information Language/ Framework: Odoo/OpenERP, Flask, Python, PHP, Javascript, CSS, HTML, XML.  Tools Eclipse: Sublimtext3, PhpMyadmin, PgAdminIII, many other tools for Linux and Databases  RDBMS: PostgreSQL Server, MySQL Server.  Operating System: Windows, Unix, Linux(Ubuntu server, CentOS, Redhat)  Web Server: Apache, Nginx  Agile methodologies(SCRUM)   API: Restful Services   VCM : GitHub, GitLab, Mercurial  Others: Jira