Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Technolutions Pvt. Ltd ? 4+ Years of experience as .Net Developer.  ? Worked extensively in Web & window based project using Microsoft Technologies Like. NET Framework 4.5 and C#  ? Good experience on SQL Server 2014 database.  ? Having knowledge of scripting language like HTML, Java script, XML etc.  ? Hands-on experience in various area of application including development and maintenance.  ? Working with AS Technolutions Pvt. Ltd. as a Software Developer.  ? One year and seven months experience with Savi Infoservices (India) Pvt. Ltd. as a Software Developer.  ? Two years and five months experience with Keltech Infrastructure Limited as a Software Developer.  ? One year experience with Cyberace Pvt. Ltd. as a Software Developer.  ? Six Months internship with Spaze Technologies on Software Development and Website Development.  ? Master of Computer Application from "Punjab Technical University".  ? A thorough professional with a proactive attitude, capable of thinking in and out of the box, generating new solutions and ideas.  ? Possess excellent interpersonal, communication & organizational skills with proven abilities in team management, customer relationship management & effective crisis management.  ? Abilities to work independently or cooperatively as part of a team to meet project deadlines.  ? Abilities in handling multiple priorities, with a bias for action and a genuine interest in personal and professional development. Work Experience Software Developer Technolutions Pvt. Ltd January 2019 to Present Description: Coding and maintenance of Application. Software Developer Savi Infoservices April 2017 to November 2018 Description: Coding, Database Design and maintenance of software. Software Developer Keltech Infrastructure Limited October 2014 to March 2017 Description: Handling all the Software & Websites activities of the company. Software Developer Cyberace Pvt. Ltd September 2013 to September 2014 Description: Handling all the Software & Websites activities of the company. Handling the clients.    PROJECTS WITH AS Technolutions    Web Applications:  ? Project Title: - AS - A hardware free mobile pos (Point of Sale) system.  ? Client & Description of Project: - AS - is a mobile application which is used by the merchant to accept the payment from their customer.  ? Domain:- Financial Services  ? Environment: - C#, Asp.Net 4.5.  ? Web Technologies: - Jquery, Restful API, HTML  ? Database: - MySQL Workbench 6.0  ? Role:- Developer  ? Responsibilities: - Involved in Development, implementation and Integration of API, HDFC FSS & CC Avenue Payment Gateway in new and existing modules.    PROJECTS WITH SAVI GROUP    Web Applications:  ? Project Title: - HR Management System  ? Client & Description of Project: - In-house project. HRMS which is fully web based application for managing the attendance, leave, holidays of the employee. Data download from Bio Metric Machine, Report according to required and all attendance type concepts in it.  ? Domain:- US Health Care  ? Duration:- 6 Months  ? Environment: - C#, Asp.Net 4.5.  ? Web Technologies: - Java Script, HTML, CSS  ? Database: - SQL 2014  ? Role:- Developer  ? Responsibilities: - Coding, database, testing and maintenance of software.    ? Project Title: - Knowledge Management System  ? Client & Description of Project: - In-house project. This application contains all the documents for Template, Quality Manual, Procedure, Forms, Check List, Business Rules, HR Policies of the organization. Every user of the company can access these documents (In restricted environment).  ? Environment: - C#, Asp.Net 4.5.  ? Web Technologies: - Java Script, HTML, CSS  ? Database: - SQL 2014  ? Role:- Developer  ? Responsibilities: - Maintenance of application and database backup.    ? Project Title: - Forms  ? Client & Description of Project: - In-house project. SAVI Forms is the web application which includes all forms used by the organization to deal with client or in house use. These forms need to export in PDF format and send to insurance companies.  ? Environment: - C#, Asp.Net 4.5.  ? Web Technologies: - Java Script, HTML, CSS  ? Database: - SQL 2014  ? Role:- Developer  ? Responsibilities: - Maintenance of application and database backup.    Window Application:  ? Project Title: - Savi Password Tool  ? Client & Description of Project:- In-house. This is Windows application and used for connect the different websites without credentials. All credentials and other information are contained by the database. It will check the credentials according to practice and website and login automatically.  ? Duration:- 2 Months  ? Environment: - C#, Window Forms.  ? Database: - SQL 2014  ? Role:- Developer  ? Responsibilities: - Coding, database, testing and maintenance of software.    PROJECTS WITH KELTECH    Web Applications:  ? Project Title: - Lead Management System  ? Client & Description of Project: - Kumar Linkers Lead Management System which is fully web based application for managing the Leads comes from Website, Mail, Reference and Advertisement. Divided into the Sales Person according to their work location, Manage all the Inquiry, Seller, Buyer and Follow Up of the Inquiry.  ? Domain:- Real Estate  ? Environment: - C#, Asp.Net 4.0.  ? Web Technologies: - Java Script, J-query, HTML, CSS  ? Database: - SQL 2012  ? Role:- Developer  ? Responsibilities: - Coding, database, testing and maintenance of software.    Static Portal:  ? Property Site www.kumarlinkers.in    Websites:  ? www.keltechgroup.com    PROJECTS WITH CYBERACE    Window Application:  ? NICOL(Correspondance)    Websites:  ? www.nakulphotography.com  ? www.cyberace.in  ? www.motorcyclerentalrishikesh.com    Web Applications:  ? Office Management System(www.cctvcameraservices.com)  Features: Complain fill by customers by their own user ID and Password, admin assign these complains to the employees, on the complain assign time auto SMS and e-mail send to customer as well as the allotted employee with the details, after completed the complain employee fill the complain status and remark given by customer, employee can see all complains which is issued to him, and many type of reports which can see by admin. Education Master of Computer Application in Computer Application Punjab Technical University - Delhi, DELHI, IN Bachelor of Arts in Economics IGNOU - Delhi, DELHI, IN Higher Secondary Certificate S.D.M.S.V.M. Public School Senior Secondary Certificate New Delhi Convent School Additional Information SOFTWARE SKILLS    • Operating Systems: Windows family.  • Language: C#.Net.  • .Net Framework: .Net 4.5  • Databases: Microsoft SQL Server 2014, MySQL Work bench 6.0 and MS Access  • Web Technologies: HTML, Asp.Net, Java Script, J-query, Web API and Web Services etc.  • Tools: Dreamweaver, Photoshop.