Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Philadelphia, PA • Software engineering professional with over four years of industry experience in Software design, architecture, and development.  • Executed projects as a Full-Stack developer, with an emphasis on designing scalable services in Java/J2EE.  • Implemented projects using the Agile methodology, expert at translating business requirements into technical solutions.  • Communicated to onsite, offsite and cross-platform teams on software development and Continuous Integration and Delivery. Work Experience Software Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA December 2018 to Present • Design, development, and integration of ONOS based SDN solution to support networking across components in the vCMTS solution  • Develop REST API for accessing information about the network using JAX-RS standard of Java.  • Implementation using Continuous Integration technologies for Java viz. Maven & Jenkins.  • Create deployable images of the code using Jenkins build tool and use docker as a container.  • Execute projects using agile software development framework and use agile tool JIRA to log the progress of different software phases & work status.  • Analyze software requirements to determine feasibility of design within time and cost constraints. Design, develop, test and implement software applications and customized for business applications.  • Maintain and look for Continuous Improvement (CI) in the performance of existing software. Software Developer Vaspire Technologies, Inc August 2018 to Present AlticeUSA, Newyork August 2018 to December 2018 • Developed Application Management System for set top box for TV using Scala, Java and AngularJS.  • Developed Reporting System to display the status of daily streaming data in the form of graphs stored in Cassandra database.  • Developed automation script for creating build and deploy the application on webservers.  • Responsible for performing unit testing of the application. Socket.io and Passport January 2018 to May 2018 • It is a web-based chat application implemented using MEAN Stack and Socket.io and Passport.js.  • The application provides user ability to create chatroom and invite friends to join by sending an email request.  • User can also create customized quiz and challenge friends to take quiz and results are sent via email.  • Authentication is performed using Passport.js.  Minitwit Application Aug 2017 - Dec 2017  • Migrated web application into RESTful Web API using Flask microframework which interacted with Mongodb.  • Created multiple instances of web application to perform load balancing using NGINX.  • Performed API URL authentication using Http Basic Auth.  • Increased application response time by using Redis cache. Gourmet App April 2017 to May 2017 • Designed and developed web application using Node.js that interacted with yelp's API.  • Worked in a team of 5 to program modules in Ember.js to communicate with the Node.js server and display data retrieved from server to front end. Which Character Are You January 2017 to May 2017 • Developed a web application that provides ability to dynamically create and play quiz.  • Used Node.js and Ember.js for server-side programming using key-value data store. Which Character Are You January 2017 to May 2017 • Engineered R application to detect whether a person has a specific disease.  • Prediction of possibility of disease was made by Naïve Bayes algorithm in R programming. Associate Consultant Capgemini - IN December 2012 to June 2016 India  • Led all stages of the Software Development Lifecycle of a development / support project for a USA based financial organization, which comprised of managing customer dispute system.  • Utilized open-source frameworks such as EJB, Spring, hibernate to implement backend system to interacted with 13+ webservices.  • Led meetings in gathering business requirements, allocating project resources to various tasks and designed use cases and class diagrams.  • Created test cases for functional and regression testing in Junit framework and captured runtime exceptions using Log4j.  • Integrated the application with backend database using JMS, JDBC drivers.  • Responsible for performing code reviews and code coverage, also provided design outline to junior developers to implement solutions.  • Handled processing of asynchronous service request implementing JMS that increased overall systems request processing time by 30 percent.  • Involved in deployment and maintenance of application on Weblogic application server.  • Tracked and monitored production defects and released timely fixes as well as provided ongoing production and operations support to improve system performance.  • Produced project reports for ongoing projects and published weekly status reports and handled daily client meetings. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science California State University - Fullerton, CA May 2018 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering University of Mumbai - Mumbai, Maharashtra July 2012 Skills C++, DOCKER, FIREBASE, Git, HTML Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/harshada-chaundkar