Senior Automation Developer Senior Automation <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Automation Developer - PNC Bank Work Experience Senior Automation Developer PNC Bank - Strongsville, OH March 2019 to Present This team is responsible for developing new Real Time Online Account Opening channel for all PNC credit cards.    Key Responsibilities:  • Strong Experience with widely successful agile techniques: TDD, BDD, Continuous Integration, Continuous Testing, Pairing, Automated Testing.  • Develop UI Automation using Java, Selenium, Zalenium Grid, TestNG, Gradle, Log4J, Apache POI using BDD and TDD.  • Develop Mobile Automation using Perfecto implementation with Java and Automation for MongoDB validation.  • Develop API Automation for backend Microservices using Karate, Implement Mock servers using Karate to support better Unit testing capabilities.  • Create performance scripts using Karate Gatling.  • Add Health, Smoke, Functional and Performance tests stages in Kubernetes Jenkins pipeline for UI and API automation and CI/CD.  • Automation Code analysis using SonarLint and SonarQube.  • Following Ticket Based Engineering using Jira, branching and code repo in Bitbucket.  • OpenShift logging and implementing monitoring and metric analytics using Grafana.    Environment: Selenium, Zalenium, TestNG, Gradle, Apache POI, BDD, TDD, CI/CD, Java, MongoDB, Karate, Mocking, Gatling, Kubernetes pipeline, OpenShift, SonarLint, SonarQube, TBE (Ticket Based Engineering), Jira, GIT, Bitbucket, Grafana    Project Name: Retail - API Innovation - Onyx Senior Automation Developer PNC Bank - Strongsville, OH January 2019 to March 2019 Implement TSYS vendor services for its new high net worth credit card product.    Key Responsibilities:  • Involve in full life cycle of the project from research, requirements gathering, analysing, designing, and developing the application using Agile Methodology.  • Implement API Automation using Karate framework with Gradle and Cucumber BDD.  • Develop Services Automation framework using Karate and implement for company wide API Automation.  • Implement Mock servers using Karate to support better Unit testing capabilities.  • Create performance scripts using Karate Gatling.  • Status reporting and responsible for final delivery.    Environment: Karate, Karate Gatling, Cucumber, Gradle, Version-1    Project Name: Retail - Incentives team Senior Automation Developer PNC Bank - Strongsville, OH November 2018 to January 2019 Incentives team supports projects for different applications - PBI (Private Banking Incentive), WRT (Web reporting Tool) and SLS (Sales tracking System). Incentives system calculates rewards or bonus for a banking employee in various different fields across bank like banker, loan office or customer service representative.  This reward is then paid Daily, Monthly or Quarterly depending on the employee type and field.    Key Responsibilities:  • As part of Automating SLS application, Developing and updating TCOE Automation Framework using Core Java, TestNG, Maven, Log4J, Apache POI for Trace report validation.  • Create BDD framework using Cucumber and Test NG and integrating with ALM for tracking and reporting.  • As part of Motivator (SLS system) desktop and Server application automation, continuously creating and updating Automation scripts in UFT and ALM.  • As part of automating UI part in WRT application, Developing and updating Automation Framework using Core Java, Selenium Web driver, Selenium Grid, TestNG, Gradle, Log4J and Jenkins.  • Involve in Automation side of Component, SIT, End-to-End, Functional, Integration, Backend and Regression, UAT Testing.  • Developing Automation Test plans, Test cases and Test steps.  • Status reporting and responsible for final delivery.    Environment: Selenium Web driver, Selenium Grid, Jenkins, HP QTP, TestNG, Maven, Gradle, Log4j, PageObject, Data driven, Apache POI, Cucumber, Protractor, Jasmine    Project Name: State Specific and Compliance Team (3M Squad) Senior Software Developer Safeco Insurance - Seattle, WA July 2017 to November 2018 This Squad is responsible for State Specific development, Business benefit, Mandatory compliance requests and specialty projects.    Project Name: Future Renewal Date Testing Senior Software Developer Safeco Insurance - Seattle, WA February 2017 to July 2017 Implement an expanded TIN testing environment that will provide additional batch cycles for testing purpose. Existing TIN level allows for 1 renewal to be verified and with new TIN cycles, we could validate additional 3 renewals on both Auto and Home products.    Project Name: Scorecard and KBS Application Software Developer Safeco Insurance - Seattle, WA March 2014 to February 2017 Scorecard application determines the tier of a customer which is used in the rating system for premium calculation. A policy goes through this application during New Business, Renewal Business and Verification endorsement. It also has Tier Altering Rules to check if the calculated tier has to be adjusted or a quote has to be declined.  KBS application acts like an automated human underwriter for New business policies. There are a set of rules that are programmed though which a policy will go through to be either accepted or referred to an underwriter for manual review.    Key Responsibilities:  • Involve in full life cycle of the project from research, requirements gathering, analysing, designing, and developing the application using Agile Methodology.  • Attend daily stand-up meetings to provide updates on the assigned tasks.  • Involve in development of any new Development projects, Minor enhancements, Level-1 changes and Production support of these applications.  • Trained and was considered as SME of these applications and working on the changes for these applications till date.  • Involved in full life cycle of the project from requirements gathering, analysing, designing, and developing the application using Waterfall and Agile Methodology.  • Scorecard and KBS applications are designed in Aion BRE (Business Rules Engine), C# .net and deployed in SQL Server and in hybrid cloud.  • Developed a lot of automation in this area to look for policy in DB2 and daily Scorecard and KBS results to be stored in DB2 and Mongo DB for research purposes.  • Source control of application and tools using Git, Bamboo and Jira.  • Created front-end tools for easy policy view and for policy-based analysis.  • Architect solutions based on the business and functional requirements.  • Design and Code development using COBOL, DB2, IMS and JCL, Aion BRE, C# .net, HTML, CSS, SQL Server, Pivotal and Azure clouds, My SQL and Mongo DB.  • Used ENDEVOR for version control and Abend monitoring using ABEND-AID.    Environment: COBOL, JCL, DB2, IMS, Abend Aid, File Aid, Expeditor, Endevor, SPUFI, Aion BRE, C# .net, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, My SQL, Mongo DB, Pivotal, Azure clouds.  Project Name: Auto Options Project Software Developer Safeco Insurance - Chennai, Tamil Nadu July 2013 to March 2014 Safeco Auto options product will make four coverage options available for selection at New Business and Endorsement. The goal was to broaden the market reach to more cost-conscious preferred customers and to higher end, value-oriented customers through bundling. The new base contract has less coverage than then  Current auto policy, but is considered to be a preferred offering. Pilot launch started with couple states, and the product was introduced country wide with multiple releases.    Project Name: Auto Model Refresh 1.0 Software Developer Safeco Insurance - Chennai, Tamil Nadu August 2011 to July 2013 Auto Model Refresh (AMR) 1.0 is the Safeco auto product revision. This will refresh pricing model indications and adjust the rating structure to more closely match the future of the unified personal insurance auto product. Few different discounts like Accident free and Violation free discounts, Advance quote, 2 speed  categories, and several rating interactions were introduced in the auto application system. Also, changed the way we handle duplicate incidents and split comp claims into comp glass and comp all other in rating. Pilot launch started with couple states, and the product was introduced country wide with multiple releases.    Project Name: Clarify Renewal Output Software Developer Safeco Insurance - Chennai, Tamil Nadu March 2011 to August 2011 Existing output to customer offering to renew a policy does not clearly communicate the billing plan discount and the premium amount that includes the billing plan discount. The purpose of this initiative is to reduce customer and agent confusion about the billing plan discount. We will achieve this by modifying the output for the Auto lines of business countrywide.    Key Responsibilities:  • Involved in full life cycle of the project from requirements gathering, analysing, designing, and developing the application using Waterfall Methodology.  • Architected solutions based on the business and functional requirements.  • Prepared Design specifications document which can be traced back to the business requirements.  • Designed and Code development using COBOL, DB2, IMS and JCL.  • Created/updated Master Component List and create and execute Unit test cases to make sure all the changes are working as expected.  • Implemented a Value addition in the application system where data will be retrieved in alphabetical order from IMS database instead of how data is expected to be used in the premium calculation. Once data is  Retrieved, it will then be sorted based on the real calculation order.  • Introduced another value addition which helped in increasing the performance of application system. Extra step was added in the rates generation job process where it is programmed to remove  neutralized value from the rates file there by reducing the number of lines to be loaded into IMS database.  • Unit testing also using Expeditor and personal level jobs.  • Used ENDEVOR for version control and Abend monitoring using ABEND-AID.  • Performed peer review and Co-ordination with Onshore lead for development and deployment.  • Status reporting and responsible for final delivery.  Environment: COBOL, JCL, DB2, IMS, Abend Aid, File Aid, Expeditor, Endevor, SPUFI Education Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering Anna University Skills Hp qtp, Qtp, Jira, Selenium, Selenium grid, Selenium web driver, Testng, Aion, C#, Clist, Cucumber, Git, Gradle, Html, Javascript, Jenkins, Rexx, Java, Jcl, Apache Additional Information • Software developer professional with 8.5+ years of working experience in Insurance and Banking domains and in Mainframes and Java technologies.  • Solid knowledge and experience in complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) - Analysis, Design, Development, Documentation, Debugging, Testing and Implementation using Waterfall and Agile Software development.  • Strong Experience in developing UI Automation Framework using Java, Selenium WebDriver, Zalenium Selenium Grid, Perfecto for Mobile, TestNG, Gradle, Maven, Log4J, Apache POI, Page Object and Jenkins.  • Experience in developing API Automation and Mock services using Karate framework. Experience in Performance testing using Karate Gatling.  • Experience in developing Health, Smoke, Functional and Performance automation scripts and implementing stages in Kubernetes container (K8s) pipeline.  • Experience in OpenShift logging and implementing monitoring and metric analytics using Grafana.  • Experience in developing Services testing framework using SoapUI Pro and Rest Assured and writing test scripts using SOAP and REST web services.  • Good exposure in automating Desktop application testing using UFT and ALM.  • Experience in developing Test plans, Test cases, Test steps. Involved in writing automation program for testing of Mainframe, Services, Web and Desktop applications.  • Good knowledge in Behavior Driven Development (BDD) using Cucumber and Jasmine and writing automation scripts for AngularJS application using Protractor.  • Experience in developing application software using COBOL, JCL and other Mainframe tools and IBM utilities.  • Experience in databases like IBM DB2, IMS DB/DC. Experience in using other Mainframe tools like ALM, ENDEVOR for Version Control, XPEDITOR and Abend-Aid for Debugging, FILE-AID, SPUFI, VSAM, REXX, CLIST, MQ, FTP.  • Experience in using SAS for Data Modeling and using Easytrieve for Reporting.  • Strong experience in using Aion Business Rules Engine (BRE) to write business rules.  • Experience in using both SQL and NoSQL databases like MySQL, MongoDB.  • Little Experience in build automation tools like Jenkins, and also using RTC, Jira.  • Experience in using GitHub for Source Control and in using Pivotal cloud.  • Experience in running Strobe and analyzing Trace report for error and performance analysis.  • Analyzed, designed and created new JCL JOBs, PROCs for daily, monthly & yearly Reporting purposes.  • Developed and maintained batch/online systems using CA-7 scheduler.  • Efficiently led software project teams. Ability to handle multiple projects.    TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages: Java, COBOL, JCL, C#, Aion BRE  Automation Testing Tools: Selenium Web driver, Zalenium Selenium Grid, Perfecto, REST Assured, SoapUI, Appium, Protractor, HP QTP, Karate, Karate Gatling  Frameworks: TestNG, Maven, Gradle, Log4j, PageObject, Data driven, Apache POI, Cucumber, Jasmine  Mainframe Tools: ALM, ENDEVOR, XPEDITOR, Abend-Aid for Debugging, Easytrieve, FILE- AID, SPUFI, CA-7, VSAM, REXX, CLIST, SAS, MQ, FTP, Strobe  Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, JavaScript  Databases: IBM DB2, IMS DB/DC, MySQL, Mongo DB  Methodologies: Waterfall, Agile, TDD, BDD  Other Tools: Jenkins, HP ALM, RTC, Jira, Version1, GIT, Kubernetes Pipeline, OpenShift, Grafana, SonarQube