Mid-Level Java Developer Mid-Level Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Mid-Level Java Developer Orlando, FL Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Mid-Level Java Developer A Square Group - Melbourne, FL July 2018 to Present Working on heavy weight REST-based applications for the Department of Veteran Affairs  (EDI TAS) in processing 835,277,278, it involves the use of JSON web API Service layer.  Developed projects in Spring boot and Spring JPA, used Hibernate framework and build tools like Ant, Maven and gradle  • Understood and made use of the complex VA data systems and their relational databases like  MySQL and SQL Oracle databases to maintain and query user data.  • One of the primary members in team of 3 for UAT defect fixes and high priority/critical  requirement changes.  • Followed Agile Scrum Development Methodologies and streamlined different environments for Dev, QA, SQA and UAT using tools like Jenkins and Weblogic. Version control using GIT  and/or Rational.  • Integrated java based applications with Intersystems HealthShare tool so as to configure  and schedule Sybase tasks in VA Environment.  • Used Intersystems HealthShare tool to set up a Parsing functionality for incoming X12 files  and save user data in SQL Oracle databases. Software Developer Jinglz Inc - Mount Dora, FL July 2017 to July 2018 Stripping the entire Ad Management platform project and reorganizing according to MVP  standards. Understanding and assisting with development of features in the existing PlayJinglz  Android App (Ad Management platform)in Java.  • Rebuilding the entire app using Dart in the Flutter platform so as to combine Android and iOS code bases into one single code base. Using espresso to automate app testing and version  controlled Bug testing and Bug fixes. Software Development Intern Ace Applications LLC - Orlando, FL January 2017 to May 2017 • Developed a .NET based, in-house Web Application Student Database Management System.  • API documentation of an event management system for GET and POST requests. Software Development Intern EPIC Engineering & Consulting Group LLC - Winter Springs, FL May 2016 to December 2016 Worked on a venture by FDOT and developed several web pages for the critical analysis of data (EDR) or errors obtained by the FDOT.  The AppleTree Connection, Orlando, FL. Content Strategist  • Check out: www.theappletreeconnection.com  Technical Skills Embedded Platforms:Ardiuno, 8051.  Languages/Markup:HTML, CSS, Latex, XML, VB.NET, ASP.NET, Android Studio, JavaScript, Java, Dart, Flutter platform, Cache, PDL, Bootstrap, SQL, Anypoint Studio MuleSoft  Operating System: Linux, Windows.  Tools and Environments: SQL Server Management System, GIT version control, Hyper V  Manager, Postman, Fiddler Android Studio, TFS, IBM Rational, JIRA, Visio, Eclipse, SQL  Developer, HealthShare, Visual Studio, HealthConnect, WordPress and SquareSpace.  Additional skills: Strategy based requirement and data analysis, management information  systems, data recovery and data collocation analysis, Agile Scrum Experience. Education Masters in Electrical Engineering University of Central Florida - Orlando, FL August 2015 to May 2017 Bachelors in Electronics and Communication Engineering Sir M Visvesvaraya Institute of Technology - Bengaluru, Karnataka September 2011 to May 2015 Skills Data analysis, Data recovery Links https://goo.gl/moQKwj