Integration Developer Integration <span class="hl">Developer</span> Experienced Full Stack Software Developer with overall 6 years of extensive experience in  software development using various technologies in developing API, Web, Mobile and Desktop  applications.    Strong knowledge in Mulesoft integration platform    Strong knowledge in Java and Java Frameworks such as Spring and Hibernate  Frameworks    Strong knowledge in javascript frameworks such as Node JS, Express JS, JQuery and  other javascript frameworks and libraries    Strong understanding of Object Oriented Programming concepts, MVC, MVP and DAO, SOA design  patterns    An Agile, hard working, motivated, results-driven person and hungry to learn new technologies,  strategies and processes    An open minded person who is willing to accept the ideas of others and willing to share    Strong problem solving skills in designing & software development    A team player who will do the best he can to support the team, to solve the problem and deliver a high  quality output Work Experience Integration Developer September 2018 to Present Shore360 is a Australian owned enterprise and a Dynamic BPO.    Key responsibilities include, but are not limited to:    ? Develop High Quality APIs Using Mulesoft Integration Platform  ? Design and implement project architecture  ? Maintain and Improve existing web application  ? Collaborate with the team in Agile Environment  ? Database Designing  ? Implement Best practices and design patterns  ? Software Testing Mid Software Developer Direct Sourcing Solutions November 2017 to August 2018 Outsourcing solutions in Market Insights, Finance, Software Development & Virtual Assistance.    Key responsibilities include, but are not limited to:    ? Develop Web and Mobile Application Using OutSystems Framework  ? Create Project Architecture for both Mobile and Web platforms  ? Direct Communication and Collaboration with Clients  ? Collaborate with the team in Agile Environment  ? Database Designing  ? Implement Best practices and design patterns  ? Software Testing Software Engineer / Technical Lead Site Online Learning May 2016 to October 2017 Site Online provides custom learning solutions, analyzing training requirements to develop effective online  programs that can be rolled out on a global scale.    Key responsibilities include, but are not limited to:    ? Develop RestFul API using Spring Framework  ? 3rd party Saas Solution & Payment Gateway integration like Paypal, NAB, AsiaPay, Axcelerate  and Moodle  ? Develop reusable portlet that can be integrated and used by other projects and teams  using Liferay Portal  ? Deployment of release products and updates in Testing and Production Environments on both On-premises server and cloud-solution AWS  ? Collaborate with the team in Agile Environment  ? Manage, support and facilitates team members  ? Research trending technologies, development best practices, Designing and Development  of source code infrastructure or frameworks to be used on product development  ? Technical Consultant & Team Lead  ? Create Wireframe or Mockup design for specific project  ? Create project timeline and milestone  ? Help and support the team to configure and setup working environment  ? Database schema designing  ? Develop Embeddable widget using javascript frameworks  ? Software Testing Software Engineer TwistResources August 2015 to April 2016 TwistResources specialize in high-performance sites and applications optimized for web or mobile.  Creative through to complex logic; projects large or small.    Key responsibilities include, but are not limited to:    ? Development of reusable widgets using Tooltwist Framework  ? Software Development, Bug Fixes, and maintenance  ? Software Testing  ? 3rd party API integration: Tribal PEPi (SOAP)  ? Deployment of products and updates in Testing Environments  ? Collaborate with the team in Agile Environment  ? Help and support the team to configure and setup working environment  ? Database schema designing Software Developer Balibago Waterworks System Inc February 2014 to May 2015 Water Service Company.  Key responsibilities include, but are not limited to:    ? Developed desktop application to computerize manual process like Purchase Order, Branch Manager Reporting System & Billing  ? Bug fixed, maintenance, developed features  ? Software Testing & PC Troubleshooting  ? Collaborated with the team  ? Help and support the team to configure and setup working environment  ? Database schema designing  ? Developed/Generated computerized Reports  ? Installed developed software in Company main and other branches. Junior Software Developer BMWare Software Development May 2013 to January 2014 BMWare Software Development is a private software development company based in the City of San Fernando Pampanga, Philippines that provide customized software development for Desktop,  Web and Mobile Systems.    Key responsibilities include, but are not limited to:    ? Maintained and developed features for Company's POS product  ? Collaborated with the team  ? Help and support the team to configure and setup working environment  ? Database schema designing  ? Developed/Generated computerized Reports    ? Installation of POS System in different clients stations  ? Software Testing & PC Troubleshooting Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Computer Programming STI COLLEGE ANGELES Philippines 2009 to 2013 Skills Database, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, Visual studio Links https://marvinfontanilla14.github.io Additional Information KEY SKILLS    ? Technologies: Mulesoft, Core Java, Java EE, Spring Framework, Spring MVC, Spring boot,  Spring Security, Spring Mail, Spring Quartz, Hibernate, JPA, Spring Data, Liferay Portal, Maven,  Dagger 2, Retrofit, ButterKnife, Retrolambda, Swing, JFreeChart, JasperReports, JavaMail API,  HTML, Javascript, JQuery, Ajax, JSON, Bootstrap, Materializecss, Node JS, Express JS, Babel  JS, Socket.IO, Google APIs, Handlebars, Angular 2, Angular CLI, Salesforce, OutSystems,  Wordpress,  Codeigniter, Laravel, JSTL, Log4j, Git, Bitbucket, GitHub, Jira Software, Redmine, Jenkins, Trello, Slack,  proto.io, Tooltwist Framework, Burp Scan    ? Server: Apache Tomcat, Xampp  ? Tools: Eclipse, Netbeans IDE, MySql Workbench, IReport, Sublime, Visual Studio Code, SQL  Server Management Studio, Postman, SoapIUI, Atom, Android Studio, Genymotion Emulator,  OutSystems Service Studio    ? Database: Redis, MongoDB, Posgresql, MySQL, SQL Server, Derby    ? Platform: Mac OS, Ubuntu, Windows