Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - United Health Group /OPTUM Seattle, WA • Enthusiastic Software Developer with 9 years of experience in working of dynamic web applications and Enterprise software applications for companies like United Health Group.  • Experience In building scalable, efficient and high performing software modules using software engineering best practices.  • Experience in REST web services, Java, Spring, Spring Boot, Micro services, Spring Cloud, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, React, Shell Scripting and Python.  • Strengths in ownership, problem solving, team collaboration, innovation, communication, mentorship and agile methodologies. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Software Developer United Health Group /OPTUM - Basking Ridge, NJ December 2014 to Present Project-Overview:  Electronic Payments and Statements (EPS) - EPS is a service offered to health care providers to submit claims for payments to health insurance payers and receive those payments electronically in designated banks. 3.2 Million Claims are processed daily and 300, 000 payments totaling over $700M processed daily with over $2.5B a week.  • Developed a centralized error notification utility based on observer design pattern, improving workflow by 10%.  Technology: Korn Shell Scripting, Java, SQL.  • Accomplished 150% performance improvement for the PDF generator Utility by adapting the Master - Slave Architecture, by processing 3 times greater number of requests in 12 hours compared to prior design.  Technology: Korn Shell Scripting, Java, SQL, Itext PDF, REST web services, Spring, Jackson Libraries and Hibernate.  • Developed REST based Micro services for consuming as well as serving requests as part of the micro services architecture initiative for a more modular application.  Technology: Java, Spring, REST web services, SQL, Jackson Libraries and Hibernate  • Developed a REST API Service with Oauth implementation to expose specific data from our application to another application within the company.  Technology: Java, Spring, REST web services, SQL, Jackson Libraries and Hibernate, Oauth2  • Developed a REST API Client that consumes data from the national database to match the information of accounts for enrollments.  Technology: Java, Spring Boot, REST web services, SQL, Jackson Libraries and Hibernate, Oauth2, OkHttp  • Developed intuitive new user experience for 1.4Million Health Care Providers and 45 Payers by critical portal redesign increasing net promoter score by 10 points and reducing call center volume by 10%.  Technology: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSP, JSTL  • Developed an automated process for setup of new payers, thereby making the setup process 30% faster.  Technology: Python  • Developed a utility for content management, which increased the productivity of each developer in the team by 20%.  Technology: Java, JSoup Libraries  • Mentored the TDP (Technology Development Program) Interns and also help new hires get an understanding of the technology stack of the application and the process.  • Writing Intuitive and informational technical documentation for the software module developed so that new developers looking at the module in the future for designing and implementing an improvement understand the existing logic in place without hassle and save time reading the documentation and spend quality time designing solutions.  • Wrote automated unit test cases using tools like Junit and Mockito, which get executed as part of the continuous integration and continuous deployment pipeline, this enables any errors or security vulnerabilities in the software module developed to be caught in the early stages of development, thereby avoiding errors in code before the final deployment. Software Developer Fannie Mae July 2014 to December 2014 Location: Washington D.C    Project-Overview:  I worked on the Multi- Family Credit works application. The application essentially does credit risk analysis of loans based on various scenarios and determines if a customer is in the risk on being a defaulter. The determination is based out of proven and tested financial models and mathematical algorithms.    • Upgraded the MFCW ( multifamily credit works) application connection to external and internal databases like Interest Rates Database by integrating EPV (Enterprise password vault) application code into existing code with REST API's  Technology: JAVA, RESTful API's, mySQL  • Wrote shell scripts to setup the environment so that the password for an external connection ID is pulled from Password Vault rather than an encrypted file.  Technology: Korn Shell Scripting, Password Vault  • Wrote a REST Consumer to pull the interest rates from IRDB and then use the data in custom models and algorithms.  Technology: Java, Spring, REST web services  • Integrated MFindices to MFCW, and wrote Ant Deploy scripts to deploy MFindices on the Grid Server and set permissions required to run the application.  Technology: Integration of two applications, ANT scripts  • Developed a custom JAVA and automated CSV generation with credit analysis data, achieving 80% efficiency in the workflow.  Technology: Java, XML, CSV libraries  • Set up the synchrony Interface between Risknet and MFCW for monthly transfer of files from MFCW to Risknet, also worked on setting up synchrony interface between MFCW and MFDM for file transfer.  • Wrote ANT Build Scripts for deploying the application on servers. Software Developer Core Logic - Irvine, CA November 2010 to June 2014 On - Site) Education University of California San Diego - San Diego, CA Skills JAVA (5 years), KORN (5 years), KORN SHELL (5 years), SCRIPTING (5 years), SHELL SCRIPTING (5 years), Spring, J2Ee, JSP, Hibernate, Java J2Ee, Angularjs, JEE, Javascript, MVC, Rest, Angular, Soap, Core Java Links https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/verify/ATV6UDZFZN2F Additional Information #Skills    Front -End Back-End Source Control Frameworks  JavaScript ES6 Java/JEE Git (Git Flow) Spring  CSS REST / SOAP Webservices SCRUM / Agile Spring boot  HTML Microservices GitHub React  jQuery Apache / WebSphere Jenkins for CI/CD Bootstrap  Korn Shell Scripting XlDeploy for Deployments Junit (unit -testing)  SQL Deployments to AWS Struts  Maven/Gradle  Python