Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Worcester, MA Junior-level software developer. Can adapt to new tools and programming languages quickly and can write effective documentation. Strengths include feature implementation / enhancement and bug-fixing.    Currently open to opportunities in the Central Massachusetts area. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Capital Intellect Inc - Boston, MA April 2016 to June 2019 Worked on the development team responsible for the BeFrugal website, its associated coupon and sale import feeds, and tools used by the content team. Contributed to feature development, issue resolution, and data storage / retrieval.    Technologies  C#, ASP.NET, Visual Studio, Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio Software Developer athenahealth - Watertown, MA May 2015 to August 2015 Member of a project team responsible for developing product features involving customized services for healthcare providers and interactions between athenahealth services.    Technologies  Perl, Perforce, PuTTY Software Developer Unidesk Corporation - Marlborough, MA May 2013 to March 2015 Member of an Agile development team responsible for developing product features across vSphere, Hyper-V, and Azure platforms. Contributed to feature development, bug resolution, adaptation to new platforms, and automation monitoring.    Technologies  C#, Visual Studio, vSphere, Perforce, MySQL, NUnit, Python, Linux Software Developer Intern Unidesk Corporation - Marlborough, MA June 2012 to August 2012 Assisted in adapting the Unidesk platform to handle Windows 8 desktops. Tasks included identifying files critical for Windows 8 to boot, testing profile management, and debugging Unidesk drivers.    Technologies  WinDbg, PuTTY, vSphere, Microsoft Visual Studio Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Worcester Polytechnic Institute - Worcester, MA August 2009 to May 2013 Skills C# (5 years), Java (4 years), MySQL (2 years), Asp.Net (2 years), Visual Studio (5 years), Windows (10+ years), Virtualization (4 years), Linux (3 years), Javascript (1 year), Python (1 year), C++ (1 year), HTML (1 year), Visual Basic (1 year), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Eclipse (2 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/gregswheeler Assessments Critical Thinking — Expert June 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/gvssbb7jmlzhxama Data Analysis — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vk4ascgtyhklnzwk Problem Solving — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/t5myxxy3mnjgj4oa Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information While I consider myself most proficient in C# and Java, I also have experience in SQL, scripting, and web markup.    In my spare time I enjoy hiking, cycling, and video games. I also write my own desktop applications.    Before graduating from college I occasionally worked on painting and landscaping projects with my father, who is a handyman.    My CS Degree from WPI included a minor in English.    Throughout high school and college I made extensive use of the Microsoft Office suite. More recently I began using LibreOffice.    I am a lifelong user of the Windows operating system, my mother being an employee of Digital (later Compaq and then HP). While attending college I began using Ubuntu Linux as well.    During my coursework at WPI I was also introduced to virtualization. My virtualizer of choice is generally VirtualBox, though I have also made use of VMWare.