Sr. Software Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - TCS Bellevue, WA • Aspiring techie, looking to further development skills in the .NET arena, and currently pursuing certification in C#  • Whenever I am not working, I am always looking for opportunities to give back to society Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Software Developer Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) - Bellevue, WA December 2018 to Present • .NET Developer role - working on Microsoft Teams technologies  • Create Microsoft Teams App Templates to increase MAU (Monthly Active Users) across various verticals  • Aid to generate end-customer interest for app template adoption  • Managed the development of app templates and coordinated with members from offshore team and team members from other vendor companies Software Developer Intelligent Data Systems - Williston Park, NY September 2018 to November 2018 Analyze, develop, test and enhance FacilIT Systems including console server and data server machine control, interfaces.  Use ASP.net, MVC, HTML, C#, Entity framework and SQL Server.  Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle.  Create stored procedures, triggers, functions, tables, views. Data Conversion, resolve bugs.  Write code, tune queries. Implement unit testing, integration testing and regression testing Software Developer II Gemini Fund Services, LLC - Hauppauge, NY June 2018 to August 2018 Utilize tools such as TeamCity to automate builds of software  Developed Angular UI for websites to be used by IT department for managing reports  Developed a console application that can calculate NAV data and export to a flat file to be consumed by other services  Created WebAPI to communicate with Angular front-end in C# Software Developer Emovis Technologies US July 2015 to May 2018 TollCRM - Customer Relations Management  • Created a document to better streamline development processes, and incorporating multilingual functionality  ? Aided in 100% UI localization  ? Achieved approximately 75% data localization  • Implemented and demonstrated the use of proper documentation - demonstrating front end to back-end relationship Intern Power Management Concepts, LLC 2012 to January 2013 • Influenced higher management to look into SharePoint as a collaboration platform  • Received training on the Mission Critical Industry - regarding to having redundant electrical systems in various environments Intern InTranS Group Inc October 2010 to January 2011 • Worked independently on creating a mobile phone app to be used as part of a CRM suite  ? Utilized the emerging Windows Phone 7 technology to create the application Education Masters of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science New York Institute of Technology - Old Westbury, NY May 2015 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in LANGUAGES New York Institute of Technology - Old Westbury, NY December 2013 Bachelors of Science New York Institute of Technology Skills C# (3 years), Microsoft SQL Server (2 years), Unity3D (Less than 1 year), Angular v4+ (Less than 1 year), SAS (Less than 1 year) Links https://www.github.com/coderkrishna http://pkrishna14.wix.com/pranavK Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Technology Associate - Software Development Fundamentals August 2017 to Present