Android Software Developer Android <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Android Software Developer, Green Science Irvine, CA Experienced Android Developer with over five years of software development experience in a broad range of industries. Solid understanding of full mobile and software development life cycles, object oriented design and Agile methodologies. Work Experience Android Software Developer Green Science February 2016 to July 2018 ? Portector: Developed an Android application that protects microphone, Bluetooth, WiFi, camera and GPS ports on a cell phone from being misused by other applications.    ? Car Violation Control: Developed a location-based vehicle tracking Android app, used by officials to detect car violations.    ? WikiSoal: Designed and developed a question-answering Android application, which provides a platform for authenticated users to ask questions, post answers, and rate comments. The frontend is in Java, which makes asynchronous requests to PHP server through JSON objects.    ? PlazaMag: Developed an online tech magazine Android application, which covers trending news around technology using java and RESTful api. Senior Software Engineer Aftab IT Center July 2013 to September 2015 ? Aftab SafeTalk: Improved the security of the open source CSipSimple VOIP app in voice communication and message encryption that is developed in Java and C++. Also developed grouping and managing feature to restrict and control communication hierarchy in the app.    ? Aftab MDM: Designed for a full-stack Mobile Device Management system (MDM), aimed to provide a level of control and protection to employees' Mobile devices. Led a team of 5 engineers using scrum to develop the system that defines and enforces policies on registered devices, root detection, enabling remote wipe of data and remote lock of device. I also developed Java based SMS Server as the communication platform between the Mobile Management server and the Mobile devices. Software Developer Engineer, Granir Damavand LabQC February 2010 to January 2011 ? Developed comprehensive Quality Control Laboratory software based on ISO 9001 standard, using C#.net and Microsoft SQL server. Education B.Sc. in Software Engineering Shahid Beheshti University September 2005 to June 2009 Skills JAVA (3 years), ANDROID (4 years), JSON (2 years), PHP (Less than 1 year), C# (2 years) Additional Information Technical Skills  ? Languages/Technologies: Java, C#, HTML, PHP, Android SDK, Android NDK, JSON, REST, Material Design, SQL, SQLite.  ? Applications/Frameworks: Visual Studio, Android Studio, Eclipse IDE, Scrum, Git.