Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Plano, TX Skilled Java programmer with 5-year experiences providing key contributions to the software  development lifecycle for web and desktop application projects. Hands-on expertise contributing  to all phases of software development lifecycle; adept at applying Agile principles and deep  technical expertise to create applications that meet and exceed customer requirements. Able to  work in a team environment with cross-functional, international personnel. Strong troubleshooter  and problem solver. Work Experience Software Developer CITYTELECOIN COMPANY - Bossier City, LA August 2018 to June 2019 Analyzed and developed some new functions for company - relating to video call, phone  taker, phone manager, phone calls from tablet for jail, etc.  § Implemented RESTful API using Spring Boot.  Developed key modules and functionalities  § Developed Backend and UI applications using Hibernate, Java, Spring, JSP, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, and AJAX. Developed JUnit classes for the application.  § Developed function which checking calls with video call fails many times and report  them.  § Fixed bugs  § Worked with Core Java concepts like Collections Framework.  § Developed Java dynamic project using RESTful web services.  § Spring Boot is used to create new module and deploy the application in Tomcat.  § Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in spring based application with very less  configuration.  § Analyzed and wrote an automation test framework by Golang; built Jenkins system to run  this test automatically on it.  § Using Angular 2 calls API and display data for customer.  v Technologies: Java, Spring boot, Angular 2/4, MySQL, Postgres, Golang. Software Engineer CHI ANH COMPANY LTD - Ho Chi Minh City, VN January 2012 to January 2017 Managed a variety of software projects for diverse clients.  § Analyzed client requirements to determine application specifications before devising  concepts and programming solutions.  Developed key modules and functionalities  § Implemented web services with Spring Boot, Spring MVC, JPA, CRUD Repository, JPA  Repository.  § Created the servers by using Node js and Express.  § Developed applications with Core Java, using Lambda Expression, Stream API - Java 8, Collections.  § Using Ajax to call restful web services. Parsing JSON. Built responsive, flexible user  interfaces.  § Handled bug testing and defect resolution.  § Integrated Agile principles into the software development lifecycle.  § Addressed and resolved production issues and trouble tickets; provided product support  as needed.  § Oversaw knowledge transfer between teams. Analyzed and implemented change  requests.  2  Cellphone: (917) 355-8745  Email: thuyhong.ip@gmail.com  Linked-in: https://www.linkedin.com/in/hongthuyha  Address: 6400 Ohio Dr., Plano, TX 75024    § Worked as a customer support to trouble shoots the issues that the users had when using  application.  § Developed web application with JSP, Angular 2/4, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap.  § Using version control tools like SVN, Source Tree and GIT and project management  tools like JIRA.  § Achievements: Education Master of Science in Computer Science in distance education Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA October 2019 Professional Diploma in Information Technology in Analysis & UML Design NIIT Cho Lon Center - Ho Chi Minh City, VN Bachelor of Science in Biomedical Engineering in Analysis & Design University of Technology - Ho Chi Minh City, VN Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, MySQL, ASP Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/hongthuyha