Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - FoxArtBox San Jose, CA Work Experience Software Developer FoxArtBox February 2015 to Present remotely)  • Working with Web Development, Python (Django, Flask), JavaScript, CSS, HTML.  • Python scripting for process automation.  • Involving in writing application level code to interact with APIs.  • Designing and developing data management system using MySQL, SQLite.  • Participating in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development and Deployment (AWS, Heroku), Implementation and support.  • Support sites with Joomla CMS Full Stack Developer Actionpay February 2014 to October 2014 • Experience with Web Development, Amazon Web Services, Python (Django framework).  • Experience object-oriented programming concepts using Python(Django) and Java(Spring).  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Django, Angular.js, JavaScript, JQuery and Node.js.  • Built single-page applications with JavaScript on a custom-built framework.  • Developed tools using Python, to automate process for new security systems deployments (certificates, configuration, software updates)  • Deploying and automate new guest register process with python scripting via Cisco ISE  • Applications support and analysis following ITIL and Change Management System (ITSM) Junior Software Developer MSF October 2012 to January 2014 • Provides assistance in the definition of application designs and architectures, and performs development, implementation of application code.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Help design the architecture and outline the process to create a successful solution.  • Interpret business requirements and software designs in to a workable application.  • Follow standard policies and procedures defined by the application development team.    WEB DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS  Comics Manager - will help you organize your collection of comics, as well as find new items, and find out the real value of your collection.  • Created Django application using one-to-many and many-to-many relationships and connected it to SQLite database.  • Implemented all CRUD operations with objects.  • Created file upload functionality.  • Used different types of sorting and filtering of objects.  • Applied CanvasJS chart to visualize the number of objects in the database.  • Used AWS S3 for static and media files.  • Created Admin version.  • Deployed on Heroku cloud platform with access to defaulted PostgreSQL database.  URL: https://comicsmanage.herokuapp.com/  GitHub: https://github.com/Mary-raccoon/Comics    Technologies: Python, Django, JavaScript, SQLite, AJAX, CanvasJS, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, AWS (S3), Heroku. Education MBA in Computer Science Samara State University of Economics September 2004 to July 2009 Skills DJANGO (5 years), JAVASCRIPT (3 years), PYTHON (5 years), AWS (2 years), CSS (5 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/marybrykin https://github.com/Mary-raccoon Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages: Python, JavaScript, Java, Ruby  Frameworks: Django, Flask, Spring Boot, Ruby on Rails  Front-End: HTML, CSS, JQuery, AJAX and APIs, Bootstrap  Databases: SQL (MySQL, SQLite), NoSQL (MongoDB)  Development Tools: AWS, Visual Studio Code  Methodology: OOP, MVC, RESTful Architecture, CRUD Operation  Deployment: AWS (EC2, S3), Heroku  Others: Git, Github, FileZilla, Joomla, Linux