Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Work Experience Software Developer Accrete Solutions September 2011 to June 2019 7 years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, Support and Maintenance of various Mobile applications and web technologies   ? Approximately, 5 years of experience in developing various mobile projects using iOS, Android, HTML5/CSS3/JS  ? Seasoned developer with hands-on experience on Objective-C, SWIFT, Javascript, Ruby on Rails, HTML5, ABAP, Android  ? Trained on SAPUI5, FIORI and SAP Cloud for iOS  ? Employed best practices and process improvements to meet ever-evolving business demands and align technologies with business goals  ? Highly spirited, process oriented and possesses an exceptional Communication, Presentation, Analytical and Problem-solving skills  ? Mobile Apps Management:  ? Management and development of native apps using Xcode and Android Studio  ? Management and development of cross platform apps using Appcelerator and Journey  ? Participated in Architecture and Design and provided recommendations for Performance improvements of the app  ? Implementation of Geolocation, local notifications, push notifications  ? Implemented the apps for various form factors and devices  ? Managed development of mobile apps and integration with Webservices (SOAP and REST)  ? Coordinated with QA and UAT teams on device testing on various smart phone and tablet devices  ? App store deployment Education Bachelor of Science Sikkim Manipal University 2013 License in Holder Indian Institute of Aeronautical Science 2009 Skills Swift, Objective C, Android, HTML,CSS, JS (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills  Operating System Windows, Mac OSX, iOS, Android  Web technologies Javascript, Ruby on Rails, HTML  Mobile technologies iOS, Android, HTML5, CSS, Javascript,  Databases and Tools Sqlite  Other Tools and Technologies Journey Platform, SAP UI5, SAP FIORI, SAP ECC, Heroku