BI Developer BI <span class="hl">Developer</span> BI Developer • 4 year's software professional experience with collection of requirements by collaborating with team lead's, development teams and system administrators for UI Design, implementation, testing, deployment and maintenance throughout SDLC.  • Proven expertise in development operations - incident resolution, production support, code deployments, application availability and performance, data reconciliation, process and scalability improvement opportunities, automation procedures and framework in data integration, technical and training documentation, and training support.  • Experience in creating visually impactful dashboards in Power BI for data reporting by using in built Power BI visuals, custom visuals for developing reports and communicating insights to stakeholders.  • Highly proficient in using T-SQL for developing complex Stored Procedures, Triggers, Tables, User Defined Functions, Views, Indexes, User profiles, SQL joins, CTEs, Cursors, DDL, DML Scripts, data modeling.  • Tuned Poor performing SQL Queries with SQL Profiler Trace and Query Analyzer  • Developed ETL packages and customize database applications by coding in SQL Server to handle large amount of structured and unstructured data. Application maintenance was added responsibility.  • Experience in importing /exporting data from various data source like Excel, XML and flat file using SSIS utility. Involved in transformation of OLTP data to the data warehouse using SSIS and SQL commands.  • Knowledge in Data warehousing, Data Modeling like Dimensional Data Modeling, Star Schema Modeling, Snow-Flake Modeling, FACT and Dimensions Tables.  • Experience with cloud computing on azure platform in Business Intelligence space.  • Proficient in creating and developing Power BI Dashboards in DAX to provide rich look with Business Metrics and configuring data gateways to have automatic refresh of the dataset  • Keep up with advancements and changes in technology and develop an understanding of how new technologies can be leveraged to provide business solutions.  • Maintain and update large datasets monthly when new data is released.  • Good Knowledge on Cosmos DB and NoSQL Database.  • Completing daily data reports for the last two weeks of high volume months (Quarter ends)  • Identify bottlenecks and defects, and devise solutions to mitigate and address these data discrepancies issues between different systems and fix them or suggest solutions to fix them.  • Utilized Power BI view to create various analytical dashboards that depicts critical KPIs such as efficiency, quality and availability of the equipment's. Work Experience BI Developer Deloitte Consulting - Little Rock, AR December 2017 to July 2019 • Demonstrate competence of engineering concepts, theories and principles, combining them with business understanding to design, document and implement clean and robust solutions to complex business problems.  • Responsible for pulling complex data sets from disparate data sources to provide information to business stakeholders and serve as a trusted advisor to business stakeholders and helping them to understand key business drivers.  • Created the ETL (SSIS) packages and ETL procedures scheduled them for Jobs.  • Modifying scripts to handle automated Loading/Extraction and Transformation (ETL) of data using (SSIS).  • Experienced working with agile methodology and provided daily communications, Scrum notes, Sprint Reviews Reports, Project Retrospectives.  • Experienced in writing complex SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views, Cursors, Joins, Constraints, DDL, DML and User Defined Functions to implement the business logic and also created clustered and non-clustered indexes.  • Added few columns and tables to Enterprise data warehouse that were present in a DataMart but were missing in the EDW.  • Rewritten the stored procedures for the ETL processes where monthly billing data is sent to the client.  • Involved in complete SSIS life cycle in creating SSIS packages, building, deploying and executing the packages in both environments: Development and Production.  • Involved in Completion of several Daily/Weekly/Monthly reports for multiple Operations managers with large quantity of data pulled from internal servers.  • Build custom reports that will help Finance and Datacenter team with their daily task as well as provide business insight. This will include ad-hoc as well as scheduled reports.  • To automate all the manual efforts the team is putting into the reporting visualization and build an organized Visualization structure which is not people dependent.  • Design, create, modify and review database objects (tables, views, indexes, keys, stored procedures, functions etc.) to support development projects using Microsoft SQL Server 2017.  • Implemented a Power BI solution to replace manual processes for increased efficiency, accuracy of information within six weeks of initial engagement with the team.  • Created calculated columns and measures using DAX queries for ad hoc requests and reporting needs.  • Maintained different levels of Data Security in Power BI while granting access to data and assigning Row-Level Security when needed.  • Published Power BI reports to Power BI server and scheduling the dataset to Automatic refresh using Gateways.  Environment: SQL Server 2016/2012/2007/2000, Microsoft BI Suite 2012, Visual Studio, Power BI, SSIS, MS Azure. SQL Developer Cerner Corporation - Kansas City, MO February 2016 to November 2017 • Experience in automation of administrative tasks like creating maintenance plans, creating Jobs, Alerts using SQL Server agent and monitoring and troubleshooting the jobs.  • Provide training and write documentation that allow data engineers to understand and support the systems.  • Designed server side T-SQL scripts for data manipulation and validation and created various snapshots and materialized views for remote instances.  • Developed tables, indexes and designing constraints and wrote T-SQL statements for retrieval of data and performance tuning of T-SQL Queries & Stored Procedures.  • Monitored performance and optimized SQL queries for maximum efficiency using SQL Profiler and Database Engine Tuning Wizards.  • Involved in creating dynamic well-organized, accurate and insightful reports/dashboards using slicers, filters, calculated columns, conditional formatting and drill down properties to support strategic decisions.  • Experience in installing, maintaining and troubleshooting the Personal and On-Premise Gateway.  • Developed and published Power BI reports to workspace and scheduled the dataset for automatic refresh and configured an alert system If refresh fails.  • Data Migration from On-premise to azure cloud, azure SQL server    Environment: SQL Server 2012/2007/2000, Microsoft BI Suite 2012, Visual Studio, Power BI, SSMS, SSRS, SSIS, MS Azure. Software developer Tripod Software Solutions(Hyd, IND) March 2014 to December 2015 • Experience in creating SSIS packages to extract data from different sources like SQL Server, MS Excel, transform and then load into Dimension and Fact tables in Data Warehouse using SSIS.  • Performed data cleansing to remove unnecessary columns, eliminate redundant and inconsistent data by using SSIS transformations.  • Implemented error & failure handling in SSIS packages using event handlers, row redirects and check points.  • Created views, constraints, stored procedure, temp tables, CTEs and effective DDL/DML triggers to facilitate the automation of data entry by front end application.  • Created DML Triggers to restrict data manipulation events on certain business hours.  • Developed ETL packages and customize database applications by coding in SQL Server.    Environment: SQL Server 2012/2007/2000, Microsoft BI Suite 2012, SSMS, SSRS, SSIS  Technical Stack  ETL Data Flow, Control Flow and Transformations in SSIS, Azure Datawarehouse  Databases SQL Server, MS Azure SQL, MS Excel, Cosmos DB  Data Validation, Cleansing, Aggregations T-SQL commands, Stored Procedure, User Defined Function, Error Handling  Data Analytics & Reporting with Power BI Premium Custom DAX queries, Custom M code, Custom Visuals  Programming/Scripting Languages T-SQL, C#, .Net  Integrated Development Environment IDE Visual studio, SSRS SSMS  Version Control GIT and VSO (Task Management) Education M.S in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Central Missouri 2017 Bachelor's in Engineering in Engineering JNTU 2015