Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Philips Healthcare Andover, MA • Over 7+ years of IT Experience in designing, developing, testing and implementing application software in c#.Net Technologies like HTML 4.0 /5, XHTML, CSS2/ CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular2, Typescript, Bootstrap, Node.js, React, js, JSON XML, AJAX.  • Experience in building the applications with Angular 2,0, Type script.  • Experience on Working with MVC, Event Driven applications using AJAX and Object-Oriented JavaScript.  • Experience working with CMS systems like Sitecore, certified Sitefinity developer.  • Experience working with Invision, to design the raw web pages.  • Experience in creating responsive websites for smart devices using responsive design and media queries.  • Experience working with the CSS Pre-Processors like SASS, LESS.  • Expertise in Creating Templates, functional specifications, visual design mockups and Prototypes, Web Interfaces, Layouts and Flow of Future Pages Using Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator and Adobe Flash.  • Responsible for checking Cross Browser Compatibility and worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome.  • Expertise in working with emulators like browser stack to test multi browser and multi device issues.  • Expertise in designing web applications and web contents utilizing various Search Engine Optimization techniques.  • Experience working with SEO and Web Analysis, AB tasty to test the Web applications  • Expertise with Web Development IDE such as Visual Studio, Notepad++, JSfiddle.  • Experience in version managements like TFS, GIT.  • Expertise in React JS framework to develop the SPA.  • Experienced in React JS and working with React Flux architecture.  • Experienced in working with Redux architecture using complex Object-Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Good Experience in React.js for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts.  • Extensive Experience Working with Agile and SCRUM Methodology.  • Passionate to learn about new UI technologies and adopt at promptly and thoroughly mastering them.  • Worked closely with the project management and marketing team to completely define specifications to help ensure project acceptance.  • A team player and self-motivator possessing excellent analytical, communication, problem solving, decision-making and Organizational skills. Work Experience Software Developer Philips Healthcare - Andover, MA September 2017 to Present Philips Medical Systems is one of the major Medical Equipment Manufacturing Companies. Their product line includes best-in-class technologies in X-ray, ultrasound, magnetic resonance, computed tomography, nuclear medicine, PET, radiation oncology systems, patient monitoring, and information management and resuscitation products. The purpose of this project is to increase service revenue, make it easier for customers to do business with Philips and to create a common look and feel for Clinical Education throughout the care cycle.    Responsibilities:  • Design and develop Single Page Application using Angular, Typescript, Node.js, RxJS, Bootstrap 3/4, CSS3, and HTML5. Involved in design, development and testing phases of project.  • Worked Extensively with Angular CLI for creating Components, Services, Pipes, Directives.  • Implemented routing to navigate between the components in the application using Angular Router.  • Implemented the Lazy Loading of the modules to decrease the initial payload time and downloading time for the application.  • Responsible for implementing JSON Web Tokens (JWT) for authentication and to safeguard the routes using Auth guards.  • Optimized the performance of application using Lazy Loading and AOT compilation.  • Used CSS SASS preprocessor and created various mixins, variables, custom fonts and directives.  • Implemented HTTP requests using the RxJS Observable library to handle multiple values over time.  • Performed unit-testing using Jasmine test framework with Karma test runner.  • Working with GIT for software versioning and revision control and following Agile Scrum methodology.  • Followed agile software development practice, paired programming, test driven development and scrum status meetings.    Environment: JavaScript, Angular, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, RxJS, Bootstrap 3/4, Mongo DB, Node.js, SASS, Webpack AJAX, Grunt, REST API's, Jasmine, GIT. Software Developer Holland America Line - Seattle, WA January 2016 to August 2017 Holland America Line, being a Cruise-Liner company, they have a lot of products/services which they sale once the cruise has been purchased (excursions, gifts, dining packages, etc.). These entities require extensive data mapping with all kinds of data sources and types of data (User Information, Booking Data, etc.). The aim of this project was to create the entire experience for the secondary flow.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the current endpoints and APIs to decide upon a chart of the APIs required for refactoring and re-use.  • Meeting with the BA to complete the above task.  • Worked with the Application Architect to design and refine the proposed system.  • Worked with the DBA to synchronize the Oracle 11g Database and MySQL for our project.  • Used SQL- Developer and SQL Workbench for communicating with the different databases present within the system.  • Coordinated with Sapient to complete the document entry into the SOLR search engine hosted on Amazon AWS EC2.  • Coordinated with Sapient to create queries to fetch the data from the SOLR engine.  • Used Java 1.8 and Spring 1.5 to perform CRUD operations on the SOLR engine to create hassle free transactional models.  • Created new POJOs as and when they were required.  • Created Services using Spring AOP and Spring Data with the Repository structures for the CRUD operations. Most of the operations were done using SOAP and REST calls.  • Merged some of the existing APIs and refactored them to be re-used in the CRUD module.  • Created new resources and endpoints for the UI team to consume them.  • Introduced IO-TS modules for validation of the data and the POJO classes throughout the flow of the application.  • Used Junit to write the test cases for every service and resources for unit and integration testing purposes.  • Used Fortify to perform threat scans and refactored the threats that were detected during the scans.  • Used Swagger to create output scenarios for the endpoints created.  • Used Bitbucket and Git as a version control system.  • Used Maven and Gradle to build the different application modules.  • Worked with DevOps team to resolve many of the dependency issues faced by us.  • Provided active support to the UI and the New Development teams.  • Provided endpoints to connect to Apigee for mapping of the endpoints.  • Resolved path and dependency issues for the Adobe Experience Manager to enable content authors to provide new authorable contents.  • Worked with the entire team to provide Production and Release supports before and post-launch scenarios.  • Worked in a JIRA rich environment as part of the SCRUM team running bi-weekly sprints as well as running hot fixes within a day or two.    Environment: J2EE, Spring MVC, Java, AGILE, Restful Web Services, SOAP Web Services, Hibernate, Spring Data, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Apigee, SOLR, MongoDB, Oracle, MySQL, AEM, Fortify, Git, Gradle, Tomcat, JUNIT, Mockito, log4J, UML, Rational Rose, Maven, SVN, SOA, Design patterns, Eclipse IDE, Windows. Software Developer Intern Vtekh, Inc - Chicago, IL July 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the entire life cycle of the project starting from the requirements, mockups, design, coding, and integration testing and production deployment.  • Worked with N-tier architecture for presentation layer, the Business Logic and Data Access Layers using MVC framework.  • Worked on Building HTML Pages.  • Consumed web services from RESTful API using Spring framework to get data files from client APIs.  • Developed application logic using C#.  • Written stored procedures, triggers using SQL in SQL SERVER 2012.  • Added styles using CSS.  • Worked on client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Worked on creating and consuming Web Services.  • Handled many production issues for the existing applications.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, Java Script, C#.NET, MVC, ADO.NET, Microsoft Visual Stuidio.NET 2012, SQL Server 2012, .NET Framework 4.0, and Windows 2007 server, Web services. Application Engineer IMT EXIM INDIA PVT LMTD, Chennai, TN August 2011 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • This application was developed using ASP.NET web application & C#.NET.  • Developed Master pages to create a consistent layout of the pages.  • Controlled the style and layout of various Web Forms using CSS.  • Extensively used JavaScript to display client-side messages  • Created libraries to implement a Business layer that is consumed by C#.NET.  • Developed Web User Controls for reusability.  • Created and consumed Web Services using C#.  • Bound the Sitemap to the Tree View control for navigating between several Web Forms.  • Used ADO.NET as data-access middleware for retrieving data and updating records in the database.  • Unit-tested during the whole code development process and participated actively in the integration testing.    Environment: Visual Studio 2008, .NET Framework, C#.NET, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, JavaScript, Web Forms, Web Services, CSS, HTML, MS SQL Server 2008. Education Bachelor's Skills .NET (4 years), ADO (4 years), ADO.NET (4 years), AJAX (1 year), ASP (2 years), ASP.NET (2 years), GIT (3 years), HTML (4 years), JavaScript (6 years), jQuery (3 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (3 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (3 years), MS ADO (4 years), MS ASP (2 years), MS SQL Server (4 years), MVC (3 years), SQL (5 years), SQL SERVER (4 years), Visual Studio (2 years), Web Services (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    UI Technologies: HTML 4.0/5, XHTML, CSS2/ CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular 2, ReactJS, Typescript, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, XML, SASS, LESS, SEO and Web Analysis, AB Tasty, Browser stack, Invision, Microsoft Teams.  RDBMS: SQL Server.  IDE tool: Visual Studio, Notepad++.  Version Management: TFS, GIT  Bug Tracking Tools: TFS, JIRA  .Net Technologies: ASP.NET, ADO.NET, MVC, LINQ  Web Services: SOAP, SOAP UI, WSDL