Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - FedEx To work with a progressive organization where I can contribute my skills for the enhancement in productivity and efficiency, achieving the organizational objectives with the attribute of time, quality and discipline. Work Experience Software Developer FedEx February 2019 to Present Commerce Platform is a web application which is accessed by retailers and internal employees. It helps retailers to manage their products, inventory, product delivery and returns. The application enables the retailer to add new products, create orders, create work orders, handle return requests etc. Administration module helps to handle billing, accounts and notifications and configuration module helps to configure the products, create rules for collateral products. Reports containing information organized in a narrative, graphic, or tabular form, prepared on ad hoc, periodic, recurring, regular, or as required basis. It helps internal employees to manage the work orders.  Environment:  Java 1.7, J2EE, Spring Data, Spring Rest Services, Active MQ, Oracle, Liferay, HTML, CSS, Jsp, Eclipse.    Responsibilities:  ? Participated in PI planning and Sprints.  ? Preparing the Java, Jsp Coding standards to be followed.  ? Creation of micro services which sends messages to Active MQ  ? Involved in UI design using Jsp and Javascript.  ? Involved in Conversion of Rest services to Spring Micro services  ? Prepared Junit test cases Software Developer Dubai International Airport Authority - Dubai, AE August 2018 to January 2019 MSupplier is the leading free zone services provider in the Middle East, Dubai Airport Free zone offers integrated business solutions to the global business community. DAFZA's strategic location, comprehensive services, world-class facilities and above all the excellent investment incentives and tax exemptions are just some of the exclusivities we supply to companies within our free zone enabling them to achieve greater functional efficiency at a lower operational cost.  Environment:  Java 1.7, J2EE, Hibernate, Webservices, MS SQL, Apache Tomcat server 7.0, CSS, JSON, Jsp, Jquery, Eclipse.    Responsibilities:  ? Preparing the Java, Jquery, Jsp Coding standards to be followed.  ? Created stored procedures to get data from Oracle database  ? Involved in design of database in Ms sql.  ? Involved in design of Test cases.  ? Involved in the Unit Testing Phase.  ? Bug fixes Software Developer Candor PS - San Jose, CA July 2015 to July 2018 Aj Recruit is a solution that maintains all the information that is used in recruitment of employees at different clients. It keeps a track of job openings, candidates, clients and vendors. Maps specific candidates to the suitable job openings based on candidate's skill set and certifications as per the requirement and assign guides to the candidates based on the skills required. Tracks the interviews and sends email alerts before interview date using Quartz mechanism. AJ Recruit distinguishes itself from other accounting and payroll solutions by providing reports that are very flexible and customizable to the organization's needs.  Environment:  Core Java 1.8, J2EE, Hibernate, Spring, MYSQL, Apache Tomcat server 7.0, CSS, JSON, Extjs, JavaScript.  Responsibilities:  ? Preparing the Java, Extjs Coding standards to be followed.  ? Implementation of Multi-tenant specific.  ? Involved in design of database in Mysql.  ? Involved in design of Test cases.  ? Involved in the Unit Testing Phase.  ? Bug fixes Software Developer Candor PS - San Jose, CA March 2013 to July 2018 Accounts in a Jiffy, is cloud based software solution for the Service Industry which automates day to day operations. It works seamlessly between all departments while the user stays within the same software without having to switch between multiple systems. Accounts In a Jiffy does Accounting, Finances, Human Resource Management including Onboarding, Immigration Management, Sales/Marketing & Reporting, all in one place with a single sign on.  Accounts In A Jiffy (AJ) is a comprehensive accounting solution for organizations that need to track timesheets, expenses, salaries of employees and also invoicing, remittance from/to customers. Customizable and Flexible reporting on this data is vital to measuring an organization's financial status.    Environment:  Core Java 1.7, J2EE, Hibernate, Spring, MYSQL, Free Markup Language, Apache Tomcat server 7.0, CSS, JSON, Extjs, JavaScript, Eclipse.  Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Analysis of the requirements, estimate the effort required.  ? Preparing the Java, Extjs Coding standards to be followed.  ? Implemented Roles and security classes for the users.  ? Implementation of Multi-tenant specific.  ? Involved in Quartz schedule framework.  ? Involved in design of database in Mysql.  ? Involved in design of Test cases.  ? Involved in the Unit Testing Phase.  ? Cross browser testing the Application. Software Developer Abu Dhabi Aluminum Smelter Plant January 2012 to August 2012 Retailscape Manager helps in maintaining stores, stocks of companies under a region, area or subarea. Reports needed for stocks and store maintenance is also generated.  Environment: J2EE, Tomcat 5.5, Oracle. Education B.Tech in Information Technology TRR College of Engineering & Technology 2008 to 2012 S.V Junior college - Kodad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN 2006 to 2008 SSC Shanthi School 2005