Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Circuit Clinical An ambitious and analytical individual with experience in software development and data analysis spanning multiple industries. Passion for solving problems and applying acquired or learned skills towards the solution of such problems. An experienced team player with excellent communication and interpersonal skills who can work under pressure with deadlines in mind. Work Experience Software Developer Circuit Clinical - Buffalo, NY August 2018 to Present TRIALSCOUT    • Currently working as a member of the technology team involved in the development of Trialscout which is a patient-centric clinical trials platform.    • Leveraged publicly available databases and APIs to streamline the identification of market leads and automate the search for clinical trials.    • Facilitated the design of complex relational database systems for all data processes supporting Trialscout.com    • Primarily responsible for complete redesign of the Trialscout platform including development of new features. Production Associate Tesla Inc - Buffalo, NY April 2018 to April 2019 TESLA SOLAR ENERGY    • Assigned to several production stations and responsible for operating several production equipment with a goal to produce quality solar tiles. Software Developer Avalonix Group Inc - Amherst, NY September 2017 to April 2018 AVALONIX Stock Manager    • Built, tested and deployed on an internal network server, an application that manages customer data, product inventory, sales data, and automates product shipment processes.    • Designed the stock manager system using C#, ASP.NET, HTML/CSS, and Query.    • Gathered consistent requirements from the sales and warehouse departments towards the development of the system.    • Designed and managed MSSQL database schema primarily used by the stock management system.    • Integrated system with Magento, UPS and PayPal APIs for customer/product, shipping and sales management respectively.    • Created an interface with ActiveX to enable automatic printing of shipping labels by Zebra printer. Software Developer Intern (remote) Open Learning Exchange - Cambridge, MA January 2018 to March 2018 PLANET learning platform    • Participated in the development of docker cloud-based PLANET educational system.    • Worked remotely and actively updated codebase for review while effectively communicating with designers and product managers.    • Assisted in the migration of the PLANET App from CouchDB to PouchDB NoSQL database system. Software Developer Intern Appiculate - Lagos, NG March 2016 to January 2017 AWOOF Rewards App    • Developed and managed a wallet socket system as a microservice for the Awoof Mobile Application. The microservice integrates with the rewards platform and manages wallet transactions. Education BSc. in Health Analytics D'Youville College - Buffalo, NY 2019 BSc. in Computer Science Redeemers University 2015 Skills CSS, WEB SERVICES, .NET, C#, DJANGO, DOCKER, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, TYPESCRIPT, .NET CORE, OOP, PYTHON, JAVA, SPRING, jQuery, MS ACCESS, MYSQL, POSTGRESQL, SQL, HTML 5, ASP Links http://github.com/adepojubosun