Java/J2EE Developer Java/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - Amazon Stamford, CT, US • Around 5 years of experience as a Java/J2EE Developer includes Analysis, Design, and Development of quality software for Standalone Applications and Web-based applications using JAVA/ J2EE technologies using software development methodologies/ frameworks like SDLC and AGILE.  • Expertise in Web-Development technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Angular, Servlets, JSP, JSON, JSTL, XML.  • Expertise in Spring Boot for building Micro services and developed spring based application radically faster with very less configuration.  • Skilled in Core Java with significant understanding of Collections, Multithreading, Annotations, Exception handling and Generics.  • Experience in Object-Oriented Analysis and Design Technologies developing Use Cases, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Class Diagrams using case tools like Microsoft Visio and Rational Rose.  • Expert in Developing both the front end and back end software using Java 1.8.  • Familiar in implementing web services such as SOAP, REST, and Node JS using WSDL, CXF2, JAX-WS, and JAX-RS.  • Developed web applications based on different design patterns such as Model-View-Controller (MVC), Data Access Object (DAO), Singleton Pattern, Front Controller, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Transfer Objects etc.  • Experience writing unit test cases using Karma and Jasmine to perform end-to-end testing on Angular JS applications.  • Implementing the database designing, SQL, stored procedures using RDBMS.  • Experience in installing, configuring, tuning Application Servers like Apache Tomcat, Web Logic Server, Web Sphere.  • Familiar in J2EE design patterns like Singleton, Prototype, Business Delegate, DAO, MVC, Abstract Factory and Factory Pattern.  • Comprehensive knowledge in spring modules like Spring IOC, Spring DAO, Spring Microservices, Spring Web Flow, Spring Security, Spring MVC, and Spring AOP.  • Strong Analytical and programming skills in using technology to develop complex business solutions effectively.  • Created RESTful web services interface to Java-based runtime engine and accounts.  • Skilled in understanding and usage of JVM. Used Spring IOC, to make the application easy to test and integrate.  • Provided connections using Spring JDBC to the database and developed PL/SQL stored procedures, SQL queries to manipulate the data.  • Expertise in using databases like MySQL and Oracle and very good knowledge on SQL queries  • Extensively worked on implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using REST web services.  • Having experience with Cloud Computing environment like Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Experience in building applications using ANT, Maven, and Gradle.  • Experience and deep knowledge in the bug tracking tools like JIRA and source code management tools like SVN, GIT and Jenkins.  • Highly self-motivated, good technical, communications and interpersonal skills. Able to work reliably under pressure. Committed team player with strong analytical and problem-solving skills, ability to quickly adapt to a new environment and technologies. Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer Amazon - Seattle, WA August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed Microservices applications based on Spring Boot. Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, development, and testing of the project.  • Designed and developed Microservices business components using SpringBoot.  • Designed and developed Microservices using REST framework and Spring Boot and used Bootstrap along with AngularJS in creating the Application.  • Worked on Java 1.8 concepts involving Streams, lambda expressions, Functional Interfaces, Optional Features. Developed UI using Angular 6.  • Developing web applications using Java 1.8 and make sure the coding is done according to the developer coding practices.  • Primarily focused on the spring components such as Spring IOC, Spring JDBC, Spring MVC, Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model, and View Objects, View Resolver.  • Involved in analysis design, development, and testing phases of SDLC using agile methodology.  • Working on the SCRUM team for rapid development and improve coding efficiency.  • Assisted Database Developers using PL/SQL for managing data associated with the tables.  • Analyzing the existing code to make improvements and enhance the application.  • Build responsive email templates to enhance the current structure of the application.  • Working on MQ servers and messaging queues to make sure the messages are delivered to the appropriate client.  • Production implantation and post-production support. AWS EC2 and responsible for maintaining and expanding our AWS infrastructure using AWS EC2/EBS.  • Involved in writing web service application to connect to the application using REST services.  • Debugged issues if any by checking the logs in the application servers and monitoring the Splunk logs.  • Experience in configuring and managing various AWS services like SNS, Auto Scaling.  • Involving in team meetings with the business team to gather the requirements and make sure there are no roadblocks in developing an application.  Environment: Java1.8, J2EE, ActiveMQ, REST, Spring Framework, Micro Services, Spring Boot, Angular, SQL, PL/SQL, GIT, Jenkins, Maven, AWS, JSON, Eclipse, websphere9, POSTMAN. Java Developer FedEx - Memphis, Tennessee, US November 2017 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  • Consuming and exposing various Web services using JAX-RS and JSON to different systems for business services.  • Designed and developed Microservices business components using Spring Boot. Consumed REST based Microservices with Rest template based on RESTful APIs.  • Extensively worked with core java like collections, Strings, Exception Handling. Developed complex Web Services and tailored the JAX-RS API to suit the requirement. Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like AngularJS, NodeJs.  • Development of UI models using AngularJS, HTML, JSP, JavaScript, AJAX, Web link and CSS.  • Primarily focused on the spring components such as Spring MVC, Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model, and View Objects, View Resolver.  • Defined new validations through AngularJS for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • Worked on RESTful Services.  • Assisted Database Developers using PL/SQL for managing data associated with the tables.  • Used JDBC to connect to the Oracle database and JNDI to lookup administered objects.  • Developed a multi-user web application using JSP, Servlet, JDBC, Spring Boot, and Hibernate framework to provide the needed functionality.  • Involved in the implementation of enterprise integration with Web Services and Legacy Systems using SOAP and REST (Using Axis and Jersey frameworks)  • Generated DAO's to map with database tables using Hibernate. Used HQL (Hibernate Query Language) and Criteria for database querying and retrieval of results.  • Involved in J2EE Design Patterns such as Data Transfer Object (DTO), DAO, Value Object and Template.  • Used Spring IOC, AOP modules to integrate with the application. Developed SQL Queries for performing CRUD operations in Oracle for the application.  • Used Maven for generating system builds and Bamboo for continuous integration.  • Used LOG4J, JUnit for debugging, testing and maintaining the system state.  • Wrote JUNIT Test cases for Spring Controllers and Web Service Clients in Service Layer using Mockito.  • Designed and developed the application using AGILE-SCRUM methodology.  Environment: Java 1.8/J2EE, Spring, Spring Boot, Microservices, AngularJS, Hibernate, Webservice, JAXRS, Mockito, JDBC, jQuery, AJAX, Html, CSS, Maven, log4j, SQL, PL/SQL, SQL Developer, JIRA, JMS, Source Tree, IntelliJ, GIT, UNIX, AGILE-SCRUM. Jr. Software Engineer TechnoSoft Solutions - Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh July 2015 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Developing and editing user Interface Screens using JSP, HTML5.0, JavaScript, CSS 3.0, Twitter Bootstrap and jQuery plug - INS.  • Developed a responsive web application for the backend system using ExtJS with HTML and CSS.  • Developed enterprise reference architecture, SOA & Cloud strategy in a SaaS-driven enterprise business model.  • Developed UI using JavaScript, HTML, AngularJS, CSS, JavaScript validations and XML.  • Used PL/SQL stored procedures for applications that needed to execute as part of a scheduling mechanism.  • Developed and debugged the Servlets with JBoss.  • Developed and implemented Swing, spring and J2EE based MVC (Model-View-Controller) framework for the application.  • Implemented the Project structure based on Spring MVC pattern using Spring Boot.  • Enhanced Swagger documentation using custom annotations.  • The Implemented logic for monitoring web services with Spring Boot Actuator.  • Worked on Pivotal Cloud Foundry to host Cloud-based Applications. Followed best practices of Stash integration with Jenkins and Jira on Atlassian.  • Worked on Mongo DB concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, replications, schema design.  • Apache Ant was used for the entire build process.  • Used Mockito for unit tests development of Test-driven Development (TDD) . Deployed the application in JBoss production server running in Linux platform.  • Used log4j for logging errors in the application.  Environment: Java 1.8, Spring, Spring Boot, Ext JS 5, Spring, JSP1.2, Servlets2.1, JMS, IBM MQ, XML, REST (Jersey), iBATIS, JavaScript, XSLT, XML, UML, HTML, JNDI, SaaS, Apache Camel, Jackson, Spring IOC, JBoss 6.x, ClearCase, Log4J, ANT, Jenkins, Jira, JUnit, Mockito, MongoDB, PL/SQL, Eclipse, Pivotal Cloud Foundry. Software Associate ArthVedi IT - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2014 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed and written detailed design specifications, requirements traceability matrix (RTM) sheet, and test requirements.  • Developed and implemented front-end applications using Adobe Dreamweaver. Designed and developed UI using JSP, JavaScript, and jQuery, HTML, CSS, and AJAX.  • Implemented transaction management, high-level authentication and authorization, logging and Exception Handling using Spring Security and AOP.  • Used concepts such as synchronization and thread pools. Used Message Driven Beans with JMS APIs for asynchronous communication.  • Used Multithreading in programming to improve overall performance using Singleton design pattern in Hibernate Utility class.  • Developed a persistence layer module using EJB java persistence API annotations and Entity manager.  • Involved in working with Java APIs used to establish communication between JavaBeans.  • Implemented several design patterns like MVC, Business Delegate, Service Locator, DAO, DTO, and Factory.  • Used XML web services using SOAP to transfer the remote application to different institutions.  • Developed web services to allow communication between applications through SOAP over HTTP using Axis2.  • Actively involved in coding using Core Java and collection APIs such as Lists, Sets, and Maps.  • Working on parsing the XML using DOM/SAX parsers. Created stored procedures using SQL for data modification.  • Deployed the developed an application on Tomcat application server.  • Developed JUnit test cases for integration testing and integrated with an ANT build tool.  • Fixed many bugs and handled interfacing issues while deploying the application on Tomcat application server.  • Extensively involved in code review and documentation review of technical artifacts  Environment: Agile/Scrum, Java, JSP, jQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, AJAX, XML, EJB, SAX, DOM, SOAP, Java Beans, SQL Server, Eclipse, Tomcat, ANT, Jira, Log4j, SVN, MS Office, MS Visio, MS Project, Spring, HP Quality Center, JBoss. Education Bachelors JNTUK Skills Core Java, , Java, J2EE, UML, Angular JS, JSF, EJB, Servlets/JSP, Swings, AJAX, JavaScript, SOAP, REST,