Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Digital Marketing Associate Portland, OR Since 2012, I have enjoyed working as a Software Engineer. I am making a professional transition to Marketing Associate. I have worked with marketing departments to help create ways to communicate our company message to our customers, participated in the evaluation of the effectiveness of marketing activities, and have helped plan, develop and deliver online marketing campaigns. My experience in software helps me to be an excellent fit for the role of a Marketing Associate. I have current knowledge of software, data, and online trends, and I have a basic understanding of Search Engine Optimization (SEO), PPC, CMS, and Email marketing. I am always eager to learn more. Work Experience Software Engineer Cayuse LLC - Portland, OR July 2017 to Present Our team develops and maintains grant funding software that universities and other institutions use to minimize time spent submitting and managing grant proposals and to maximize the time spent on research. We practice Agile and Scrum methodologies with daily standups, regular code reviews, and two-week sprints. Software Engineer CampusPoint - Portland, OR February 2017 to July 2017 Contracts included Noventis Payments (Call Flow Build Team)  Our team used Java to optimize and build call flows for the Intelligent Voice Response (IVR) System. We programmatically optimized each call flow to increase the overall success rate of the calls to each Service Provider, thus increasing the productivity and profitability of our division. Software Engineer Statement Corporation - Portland, OR November 2015 to August 2016 Contracts included Nike World Headquarters (Feature Team)  Our Agile team iteratively replaced Nike's legacy "CAM" system with a Java and Node.js based system called "Identity". The CAM and Identity systems collect and maintain data for the support and tracking of its customers' social media and athletic activities. We practiced Agile and Scrum methodologies with daily standups, regular code reviews, and one-week sprints. For each deployable service, our team moved towards a system of Continuous Delivery. Software Developer III Catalyst IT Services - Beaverton, OR October 2012 to November 2015 Software development contracts included Choice International's Vacation Rentals Division, The Federal Reserve of San Francisco's SCA-R Team, and Nike World Headquarters' String Localization Tool Team. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration in Finance Portland State University May 2009 to May 2012 Skills Html, Javascript, Php, Jira, Css, Excel, Powerpoint, Word, Excellent verbal and written communication skills, Wordpress Additional Information SKILLS  • HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, WordPress  • Word, Excel, PowerPoint  • Collaborative and team-oriented  • Excellent verbal and written communication skills  • Experienced with Agile and Scrum Methodologies  • Expert user of Confluence, Jira