F-35 Software Developer F-35 <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - American Systems Palmdale, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience F-35 Software Developer American Systems - Edwards AFB, CA July 2018 to Present • Developing proprietary applications and internal tools with C#, support analysis relating to usability questions, complex SQL changes and root cause analysis on bugs. Duties also include building and maintaining documentation for regularly occurring issues.  • Leveraged knowledge in backend development using C#, SQL, Microsoft SQL Server, Object Oriented Programming practices, and database management. Software Engineer, Intern Northrop Grumman - El Segundo, CA June 2017 to July 2018 • Developed tool to transfer telemetry data for flying vehicles. Some of it was more mission critical - parts of systems which kept vehicles sending/receiving data. Some of it is more business centered - parts of systems which fed the teams bottom line in ways less directly tied to the mission.  • Leveraged knowledge in low level programming in C using VxWorks, RTOS, git and programmed in C++ using Visual Studio Software Developer University of Southern California - Los Angeles, CA August 2016 to June 2017 • I worked for the Office of the Provost where I managed the interchange of data between the server and the users primarily focusing on development of server-side logic, ensuring responsiveness to requests.  • Leveraged Knowledge in databases, JavaScript, Git, and debugged using Chrome Developer Tools Navigation Specialist United States Navy - San Diego, CA December 2009 to December 2013 • Maintained database for geospatial data and weather observations. Duties also involved creating maps as requested for deployments implementing Voyage Management System (VMS) and analyzing data.  • Performed system maintenance on navigation equipment for surface ships including components used for communication and radar. Education A.S. in Mathematics and Science Antelope Valley College B.S. in Computer Science (In Progress) University of Illinois at Springfield Skills MySQL, Git, Javascript, C++, C#, Python, SQL, Microsoft SQL Server, Java Links https://github.com/imrichie Military Service Branch: US NAVY Service Country: United States Rank: E4 December 2009 to December 2013 • Maintained database for geospatial data and weather observations. Duties also involved creating maps as requested for deployments implementing Voyage Management System (VMS) and analyzing data.   • Performed system maintenance on navigation equipment for surface ships including components used for communication and radar. Commendations: • Navy/Marine Corps Achievement Medal  • Good Conduct Medal  • National Defense Service Medal  • Global War on Terrorism Service Medal  • Rifle Marksmanship Medal