Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer Woodinville, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Guidant Financial - Bellevue, WA June 2017 to Present Duties Include: Leading the Buyer Team with building and maintaining our SaaS application, using C#, Azure, and JS. I review code, approve changes, and assign tasks to the team.    Azure features used: Service Bus, Functions, Table Storage, SQL Server, SignalR Service, App Services. Software Engineer II Philips Ultrasound - Bothell, WA August 2015 to June 2017 Duties include: Researching, developing, managing, and maintaining software tools. Introducing new technology and architecture into our tools and software stack. Designing and developing re-useable software components.    Using React, Angular, C#, Asp.net MVC Software Engineer I Philips Ultrasound - Bothell, WA July 2014 to August 2015 Duties include: Building and maintaining applications for internal customers involved with Supply Chain, creating a wide variety of tool. I used C#, ASP.NET MVC, JavaScript, CSS, JQuery. Software Developer Oltis Software LLC June 2013 to July 2014 FinanceLogix.com    Duties include: Maintaining companies sites including ClientLogix and FinanceLogix, using Javascript, ASP.NET, C#, and CSS. Explored mobile application frameworks that included (Angular.js, Entity Framework, and Xamarin. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Seattle Pacific University 2010 to 2014 Skills C# (4 years), Javascript (4 years), asp, html, MYSQL, Git, CSS, HTML 5, Jquery, CSS, Git Awards Guidant Excellence Award H2 2017 2018-01 The Guidant Excellence Award is for the employee that represents operational excellence for that half of the year Additional Information Skills  • Languages  ? C/C++/ C#, ASP.NET, JavaScript (ES5 & ES6) MySQL, SQL Server, CSS, and PHP  • Framworks used  ? Xamarin, ASP.Net MVC, AngularJS, React.js Bootstrap.css, Firebase  • Technical Writing to be FDA Compliant