Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer A software developer with more than 5 years of experience in desktop and web development. Familiar with all the phases of the development lifecycle and with front and back-end development. Proficient with several programming languages, frameworks and development tools.  Recognized as an excellent problem solver and a team player who is highly attentive to detail and thrives on achieving objectives. Good communication skills. Work Experience Software Developer Touchrate, LLC - Orlando, FL February 2012 to September 2015 As a leader in touchscreen technology, Touchrate specializes in shopper facing touchscreen sales-assist solutions for retail and touchscreens for health, wellness and guest services. It also provides reporting portal to view by location, the results of capturing analytics and trends in order to predetermine shopper preferences.    Responsibilities:  • Designing, developing and maintaining web applications aimed to collect costumer data for service and product quality improvements.  • Maintenance and troubleshooting to several Web Applications.  • Designing, developing reporting portals to show the results of the data collected.  • Experience in reporting suites such as DevExpress.  • Developing, coding and testing web-based applications for content management systems (CMS).  • Creating RESTful web services in order to enhance data transfer for mobile applications with limited bandwidth.  • Working with TFS (Team Foundation Server) for version control and to maintain consistency with the remote team members.  • Agile experience working as part of a team.  Skills Used: C#, ASP.NET, SQL SERVER, AJAX, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery, LINQ, XML, JSON, Bootstrap, MVC. Software Developer MITRANS - Havana September 2008 to June 2011 Havana, Cuba  Responsibilities:  • Designing and developing web applications for different companies.  • Designing, developing and maintaining of sales systems for retail companies.(Windows Forms)    Skills Used: C#, ASP.NET Web Forms, Windows Forms, HTML, JavaScript, SQL Server. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering Higher Polytechnic Institute - Havana 2007 Additional Information Computer Skills  Languages  Proficient in: C#, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS, XML, JSON, T-SQL.  Familiar with: Visual Basic, C/C++.  Frameworks and APIs: jQuery, Bootstrap, LINQ, Windows Forms, ASP.NET, WCF, RESTful, WebAPI, MVC.  Database: MS SQL Server, MySQL, Entity Framework.  Version controls: Team Foundation Server.    Operating Systems: Windows 8/7/Vista/ [ ] Windows Server [ ].