Salesforce Developer Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Developer - WELLS FARGO San Ramon, CA Actively seeking remote salesforce developer/admin position  - In-depth hands-on experience architecting, designing, and developing multi-tier web and mobile applications using Java, Grails, XML, Javascript and Salesforce  - Competent coder with 7 years experience building large scale computing systems in diverse areas like enterprise content management system, cloud-based CRM, and mobile applications.  - Passionate and always up-to-date with the latest emerging technologies and software, especially web and internet technologies.  - Certified Salesforce platform professional with experience in development, deployment, QA, administration, project management and integration on large-scale projects. Work Experience Salesforce Developer WELLS FARGO - San Francisco, CA May 2019 to Present Develop custom contract life-cycle management software on the Salesforce platform to handle, store, and process large amounts of agreement information.  ? Utilize Skuid, from the AppExchange to configure the entire front-end in Javascript  ? Handle large scale ETL processes using Data Loader and Apex Batch  ? Configure custom settings, field dependencies, record types, profiles, field level security, record level security, and front end rendering conditions, for various document types Salesforce Developer FRIENDMEDIA - Pleasanton, CA October 2017 to May 2019 Implement CPQ into existing Salesforce org to facilitate recurring payments and order updates  ? Developed Apex classes and triggers as well as configuration of custom fields, profiles and settings  ? Develop applications and custom components in the app builder for Salesforce Lightning  ? Write custom components and styling for event driven pages for Lightning Experience with Javascript and Jquery Junior Salesforce Developer EASTER SEALS - Walnut Creek, CA December 2016 to September 2017 Helped create software to position the company at the forefront of healthcare technology by focusing on product innovation and operation automation of in-home patient care by leveraging Salesforce App Cloud and Community Cloud  ? Developed ESBA's suites of Patient and Practitioner Salesforce CRM based management system to enable business to scale rapidly.  ? Developed custom Visualforce pages using custom Apex classes and triggers.  ? Used SOAP and REST API's to leverage Salesforce mobile integration for clinical and charge entry iOS apps for ABA treatment sessions Software Developer RELIANT NETWORKS - San Francisco, CA April 2014 to October 2016 Engaged in the development, and production deployment of social media platforms FanAppz on Facebook and RealTalk on iOS App Store.  ? Leveraged an agile development approach using Java Spring/Hibernate based Grails web application framework, MySQL database, and Amazon EC2 cloud for highly scalable web applications.  ? Designed the highly scalable cloud deployment architecture in Amazon EC2 environment for software development, source control, quality assurance, and live site production. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science CALIFORNIA POLYTECHNIC STATE UNIVERSITY - San Luis Obispo, CA August 2013 to June 2016 Skills Software development, Data modeling, Technical architecture, Architecture, User experience, Apex, Java, Salesforce, Visualforce, Soql, SFDC, Certification, COM Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES  ? Software Development Best Practice  ? Agile Development Framework and Processes  ? Technical Architecture  ? Data Modeling  ? User Experience