RPA Developer / Consultant RPA <span class="hl">Developer</span> / Consultant RPA Developer / Consultant - Comcast Philadelphia, PA I worked onmultiple clients to utilize UiPath efficiently, ranging from companies that just got first few bots and developing pilot automations to large CoEs looking to address their robots' stability concerns and improve development practices going forward. My passion toward robotics during engineering allows me to get a broad view on the way systems function and easily identify technical issues. His interest in machine learning allows efficient utilization of UiPath ecosystem of ML-oriented integrations.    • UiPath Certified Advanced RPA Developer Professional with over 1 years of experience as RPA developer  • Proficient in analysis, design, testing and implementation of automation projects using UiPath.    • Created end-to-end automation solutions for clients as per their requirements which involved feasibility study, development, testing, and deployment of robots using UiPath Studio.  • Experienced in UiPath automation of web applications, desktop applications, and performed excel manipulations and validations.  • Automated SAP, EPICOR, Citrix, and Java based applications using UiPath Studio.    • Assisted testing teams generate test scripts for testing robots and handling exceptions in various test environments.  • Extensively worked on debugging workflows for fixing bugs and production support.  • Experienced in managing robots' workloads using UiPath Work Queues.    • Hands-on experience with automating applications like MS Excel, notepad, Google Chrome, Internet Explorer, and MS outlook for email automation.  • Experienced in task recording, editing, scheduling, and distribution using UiPath and working on different adapters like Applications and the Web to login to websites, searching in website, submitting web forms, or updating records on a website.    • Expertise in using Image comparison using Image recognition with OCR, ICR, and machine leaning for designing in UiPath Studio.    • Experience in using Windows credential manager and UiPath Orchestrator Assets for maintaining, securing, and retrieving user credentials.  • Worked with Business Analysts in identifying and defining the requirements and prepared entire project documentation including Process Definition Document (PDD), Solution Design Document (SDD), Development Specification Document (DSD), and User Implementation Guide.    • Knowledge of principles and best practices in Software Configuration Management (SCM) with Agile, Scrum, and Waterfall methodologies.  • Proficient in creating UML diagrams for Business Process Modeling.  • Good understanding of SQL and PL/SQL.    • Participated in online meetings to demonstrate the capabilities of RPA for on-going projects and potential clients.    • Experience in working with customers to determine their needs, gather, analyze and document requirements, communicate with customers throughout the development cycle, manage customer expectations, resolve issues and provide project status.    • Multi-cultured Team Player with complete flexibility to work independently as well as in a team and have quick learning capabilities to work with the newly emerging technologies.  • Good communication, interpersonal and quick learning skills with proven ability to adapt to different project environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience RPA Developer / Consultant Comcast - Philadelphia, PA March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in variety of projects that enable our clients to scale up their UiPath platform adoption quickly or to improve outcomes of existing implementations. This requires understanding various aspects of software development, machine learning and infrastructure and thorough knowledge of the tools that the platform and integrated products provide.Examples of typical assignments:  • Automated Applications like Browser, Windows, Remote and SAP by using UiPath Studio.  • Developing new Processes using core workflow principles that are efficient, well structured, maintainable and easy to understand.  • Involved in Unit Testing, Integration Testing and End-to-end Testing. Involved in Code reviews to check for coding standards and efficiency.  • Identified possible Test Cases and prepared Test Scripts for Unit Testing and User Acceptance Testing under different environments.  • Utilized Windows Credential Manager for maintaining, retrieving and securing user credentials and Windows Task Scheduler for scheduling the bot to run on a daily basis.  • Involved in the designing solutions utilizing RPA (Robotic Process Automation) software, maintain technical responsibility for project delivery as the technical resource on a project.  • Code review - managed to decrease time required for workflow execution by 70% after identifying performance bottlenecks and advising on more efficient ways to utilize our platform  • Implementations - created a project that automates quarter-closing accruals process for a major company, automating 8+ different applications and freeing 30+ hours of manual work.  • Pilot project - created a process that performed purchase order synchronization between three systems in just few days. Demonstrated the process functioning on variable input data in actual production system.  • Implement and designed orchestrator including license schema as per clients architect and its requirement.  • Efficiently collaborated with clients to conduct requirement gathering and feasibility analysis.  • Identified problems within current business process and proposed automation solutions to ownership.  • Successfully managed software development life cycle from planning to deploying bot to production.  • Designed, Developed and tested robot to process Purchase Orders; reduced processing time per order by 78%.  • Automated the manual process using UiPath Studio to generate Sales Order; resulted in improved customer service, increased efficiency and eliminated human errors.  • Designed, Developed and tested robot to process Certificate of Analysis (CoA) ; reduced the processing time per item by 70% with better monitoring by robots to update the status in EPICOR ERP system.  • Working with SME's to create PDD (Process Definition Document) and developed separate SDD (Solution Design Documents)  • Fulfilling the responsibilities of business analyst & project coordinator when needed for successful project management and delivery.  • Reviewed & fixed business process production issues using UiPath.  • Implemented UiPath user authentication by defining user roles, creating users and setting password policies.  • Utilized Windows Task Scheduler and UiPath Orchestrator scheduler to schedule the bot to run 24/7.  • Involved in unit testing, Integration Testing and End-to-end testing. Involved in code reviews to check for efficiency and coding standards.  • Involved in the designing solutions utilizing RPA tool, maintain technical responsibility for project delivery as the technical resource on a project.  • Implemented UiPath User authentication by defining user roles, creating users and setting password policies. Software Engineer Cerner Corporation - Kansas City, MO August 2016 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Created variety of enhancements forSharepoint-based systems and supported the existing ones  • Coached team to adopt best practices for GitHub usage and web-based code review tools  • Mentored interns and contractorson technical aspects of their projects  • Utilized PowerShell to plan and automate system migrations off older versions  • Created and setup a standalone temporary Internet-facing ASP.NET MVC-based UI for internal ticketing system REST services  • Investigated best practices for creating TypeScript/NodeJS based enhancements for Sharepoint Online sites andshared findings with other engineers in the team.  • Worked on Visual Studio 2015/ .Net CORE 2.0 Framework to implement Business Logic.  • Participated in scrum of scrums and given new ideas which will improve and benefit to the system.  • Designing and implementing web application using Angular JS, ASP.NET MVC Framework, and Web API  • Strong Experience in writing and updating the technical documents on daily basis with the changes made to the existing environment on daily basis.  • Responsible in educating the application teams on externalization process and created Functional Specific Documents which consists of deep dive analysis along with code changes that needs to be implement within the application.  • Participated/Conducted daily stand up meetings to know progress or if any road block from the developers.  • Developed background process infrastructure on top of Windows Azure Queues.  • Creating web pages using Razor view engine that is part of the ASP.NET MVC framework.  • Coded using ASP.NET Core MVC along with a Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and deployed to Azure Cloud Service.  • Worked extensively on Web Forms and data binding controls like Grid View, Data List and Mapping page fields to the database fields.  • Creating the Restful Services using MVC5 Web API 2.0 and C#  • Implemented new core dll which will be used across the multiple places.  • Design the web pages using Bootstrap, Html, CSS and JQuery.  • Worked on creating new Web API restful services to get the data from the external system (finance department)  • Worked on the Angular2 framework for implementing a single page application which integrates with anchor.  • Implemented WPF interoperability to develop printing controls that separated business rules from markup.  • Worked on creating new web Services, Windows Batch, SQl Batch.  • Worked on Kendo UI/RAD Grid for creating more responsive grids with all the functionalities.  • Handled multiple applications where I need to touch base daily with Channel Secure Team, which implements CS policies in respective environments like DEV, SIT and IAM team which creates Active Directory groups.  • Worked on designing the new table architecture and creating tables, views, indexes and stored procedures.  • Created Dashboards in TFS for tracking the progress on each application handled by my team and each individual in my team.  • Developed WinForms which allows scheduling of automatic downloads of various data feeds at regular period.  • Worked on creating new reports using SSRS.  • Involved in development of Web Forms, Classes using C#.NET that incorporates both N-tier architecture and database connectivity.  • Worked on the creating bar graphs and pie graphs in the application.  • Worked on the JQuery/JavaScript for enhance auto complete/ajax/multi select functionality.  • Used Active directory to provide a central location for network administration and security authentication for the users.  • Responsible in Preparing/Managing the testing and production environments.  • Participated in the all testing lifecycle.  • Developed a WinForm application to import documents and user accounts from Documentum to our system. Software Developer DuPont Pioneer - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2013 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Recreated legacy desktop application used to make decisions about plant breeding experiments. Utilized modern software architecture approach, enabling best software performance, extensibility and testability.  • Utilized dependency injection to create modular C# application utilizing WPF, MSTest, Unity  • Created automated builds in TFS to enable team to check-in and test their builds more often  • Utilized Entity Framework to simplify database migrations and schema changes, decrease repetitive manual work, achieve LINQ adoption across the dev team for writing DB integration code  • Developed multiple Excel/VBA forms for data capture and report generation  • Used Cogniview Tool to generate layouts and get Excel form of data from the PDF files.  • Created Excel applications (VBA, Macros) to import historical data which include multiple databases and perform various statistical analyses, charts and graphs.  • Gained an exclusive experience adding User Controls designed using VB.NET, creating Custom Modules, Pages, Master templates etc.  • Developed enterprise level business critical applications using C#.NET, SQL and development with Winforms.  • Enabled Client and server cache using ASP.NET Cache API in MVC application.  • Developed multiple Excel/VBA Forms for data capture and report generation.  • Designed and developed business components and data components using VB, JSON and ADO.NET.  • Developed a collection of reusable ASP.NET and WinForms controls.  • Designed and developed several Windows forms using VB.NET.  • Created and optimized views for user interactions using objects of HTML Helper class, Custom Helpers and Angular JavaScript, React Java script, knockout Java script/jQuery.  • Delivered client-side application using Angular 2 technologies in conjunction with .NET Core.  • Worked on cloud computing using Windows Azure and SQL Server Azure.  • Installed/Configured and was responsible for setting up the environment and developing using 3-tier architecture.  • Server side working experience with IIS (Internet Information Services) manages hosting, publishing.  • Used Visual Studio Code as my development tool but connect to APIs built using ASP.Net Core.  • Implemented WCF service and developed asynchronous call back method in class library project to communicate with different layer of the solution.  • Extensively used event receivers to enhance functionalities in Share Point Lists and Libraries.  • Developed WPF widows to enhance the UI appearance and maintainability.  • Involved in development of Web Forms, Classes using C#.NET that incorporates both N-tier architecture and database connectivity.  • Unit test was done on loosely coupled modules using NUnit Education Bachelor's