Job Seeker 23220 Work Experience MUM 2019 to Present Diploma Thesis Registration System, MUST: Independently developed complete web application using Python Django with PyCharm for IDE, and MySQL for database, under supervision of project manager and faculty.  Technologies Used: Python, Django, PyCharm, MySQL    Meeting Record Application, MUM (2019): Collaborated with team on Web Application Architectureproject, implementing user registration/login, as well as attendance processing, attendance data analysis, and report generation.  Technologies Used: H2Database, Spring Boot, Spring Security, JPA, Hibernate, Thymeleaf, REST, AJAX    Employee Offsite Tracking Web Application, MUM (2019): Used SPA architecture with modern web technologies, implementing JWT token module for user authentication and authorization. Designed back-end and client side server, generated documents, maintained data, and integrated all modules in team.  Technologies Used: NodeJS, ExpressJS, Angular, MongoDB, Mongoose, Atlas, MS Visual Studio Code, Git, Angular Google Maps (AGM), Google Services (Geocoding, Directions) Android Developer DATA CARE LLC March 2017 to Present Designed and developed complex Android apps through entire life cycle.    • Used Java language on Android platform to develop both front and back end.  • Applied MVP architecture to Android application development.  • Investigated and repaired technical bugs, resulting in more manageable applications.  • Onis Plusproject management application. Used Java, RxJava, MVP architecture, Ion Library,  • E-mart Distribution trading applications. Used Kotlin, Kodein, MVP architecture, Restful API.  • Increased application performance speed and network-server communication speed.    Technologies Used: Java, Kotlin, RxJava, ZXing (Zebra Crossing), C#, XML, SQL, Oracle, Visual Studio, Android Studio, Retrofit, OkHttp3, Picasso, JUnit, Espresso, Restful API, Android, ASP .NET Software Developer Mongolian Criminal Police Department, Ulaanbaatar Mongolia September 2014 to March 2017 Mongolian government organization preventing crime.    Developed client-facing web system, internal desktop application, and car search Android platform.  • Analyzed technical equipment to ensure success of criminal tracing and case registration.  • Implemented front-end segments and business logic modules.  • Enabled direct access to vehicle information through database integration.  • Search for Car Account Information Android Application.  • Projects included Mobile Phone Bill Analysis  • Criminal Police Department Web System  • Improved UI performance, UX, and efficiency of Police Department web system.  • Automated phone bill analysis, resulting in significant time savings.    Technologies Used: Java, C#, XML, JavaScript, HTML, CSS3, NodeJS, ReactJS, Oracle, MySQL, Android Studio, Retrofit, OkHttp, GSON, IntelliJ IDEA, Visual Studio Android Developer MONOTT LLC September 2012 to September 2014 Mongolian mass media content aggregate and software development startup company.    Created and delivered Android applications using Java on Android.  • Integrated database technologies and wrote data calls.  • Implemented new features, improving customer satisfaction.  • Developed Hi-Fi Music, streaming service app allowing users to listen via subscription fees.  • Delivered NomiinKhuree Android e-reader app, developed using Facebook SDK for Android, Google Play Auth Service, Epublib, and Glide.    Technologies Used: Java, XML, Realm, Android Studio, Retrofit, OkHttp3, GSON, Picasso, Android Android Developer Florida Power and Light - Miami, FL January 2010 to September 2012 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Coordinate with design teams to develop the User Interface Screens, User Experience flows and required assests for development.  • Designed and Implemented Views and Layouts for User Interaction.  • Developed the UI layers for Activities and implemented Fragments within UI.  • Implemented Web API to use OAuth2.0 with JWT (JSON Web Tokens) to secure the Web API Service Layer.  • Developed user-friendly user-interfaces screens like Billing, Outage, Dashboard and Profile screens using widgets like Menus, Dialogs, Different Layouts, Buttons, edit boxes and Selection widgets like List View and Scroll View as per client need.  • Responsible for consuming the REST services, getting JSON response and parsing them to get the required information.  • Debugged and tested the application on different android devices.  • Verified and worked on HTTP responses using POSTMAN and Google Volley Client.  • Coordinate with the project manager to come up with the project plan (Agile or Waterfall) and divide work to different sprints.  • Used Shared Preferences to save username and password for last logged session.  • Monitoring the performance of the application after deploying in production in fabric and firebase and fixing the production buges.  • Used HTML5, CSS, Java script, Java to develop native apps.  • Worked on Performance improvements along with Junit, functional and regression tests for existing modules/apps.  • Used SQLite to cache the data received from the RESTful web services.  • Integrated Google Maps API to show the nearby power outages.  • Provide production and maintenance support for existing modules/apps.  • Supports UAT, Pre-& Post production phases of the application by fixing any issues in code.  • Unit test the application before sending it to QA. Ensure the code meets standards of respective operating systems and its language guidelines.    Environment: Android SDK, Shared preferences, Eclipse IDE, JSON, Relative Layout, Linear layout and Frame Layout, List Views, Base Adapter, Dialog Fragments Activities, Toast and Dialog Notifications, Fabric, Firebase, HTML, CSS, Toggle Buttons, REST Web Services, XML, Action-Bar, SQLite, Agile and GIT-HUB, Java, JavaScript. Skills Ms visual studio, Visual studio, Android studio, Api, Application development, Design patterns, Git, Javascript, Json, Android, Mvc, Mvp, Mvvm, User interface, Android sdk, Java, Intellij idea, Mysql, Sqlite, Rest Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES    Mobile Application Development •Integrated Libraries•Back-End Business Logic •Data Layer  Immersive User Interface•Agile Methodologies•E-Commerce•Algorithms  Documentation•Testing•Bug Repair•Teamwork & Communication    Languages: Java, Kotlin, JavaScript  Android: Android SDK, Retrofit, OkHttp3, RxJava, Kodein, Room, Picasso, Glide  Android Arch: MVVM Data-binding, MVP, MVC, Android Architecture Components  Web Services: REST API, JSON  Web Servers: Apache, Tomcat, Glassfish  Databases: SQLite, MySQL, MongoDB  Design Patterns: Singleton, Observer, Factory  SDLC: Agile/Scrum  Tools: Android Studio, Git, MS Visual Studio, Visual Studio Code, IntelliJ IDEA  Platforms: Android, Windows, Linux