UI Developer/ React JS Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span>/ React JS <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer/ React JS Developer - DHHS State of NC Denver, CO • Have 8+ years of IT experience which comprises 4+years of Extensive experience as a UI React JS Developer and 4 years of experience as a Software Engineer.  • Expertise in developing web pages using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, XML, DHTML, JavaScript, React JS, jQuery, JSON, Node.js,Ajax Redux, Flex, SASS, LESS, JQUERY Bootstrap.  • Extensive Knowledge in developing (SPAs) using React Js.  • Working knowledge of Web protocols and standards (HTTP HTML5/XHTML/XHTML-MP, CSS3, Web Forms, XML, XML parsers).  • Expertise on customizing CSS frameworks like Bootstrap and Foundation using CSS pre-processors LESS or SASS and Compass.  • Good Expertise in analyzing the DocumentObjectModel (DOM) Layout, DOM Functions, and Java Script functions, Cascading Styles across cross-browser using Fire Bug, Developer Tool Bar.  • Expertise in React JS and working with React Flux architecture.  • Experienced in working with redux architecture using complex Object-Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Experienced in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Redux, Animations and Flux concept.  • Pleasant Experience in React.js for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts.  • Familiar with creating Custom Reusable ReactComponents Library.  • Experienced in working with Node.JS and NPM modules like http-server, Marathon, inquirer, path, mongo DB, Micro Services, Request, Elastic Search, express, luck, spark and templating engines.  • Experience in Node environment using Node.js, NPM, Grunt, Gulp and Groovy Bower.  • Strong in using the Node.js, and Require.js and MVC Frameworks in the development of the web application  • Expertise in implementing the MVC architecture in backend applications using JAVA along with spring, Servlets.  • Expertise in writing SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures,Cursors, Triggers with Oracle 9i/10g, MySQL,PostgreSQL,MongoDB, DB2, Blob storage and MS-SQL Server.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, RESTful Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  • Expertise in video coding by using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Expertise in RESTful, SOAP web services to integrate between Applications to Application.  • Experience with front-end development with back-end system integration.  • Proficient in using Unit.js testing framework along with Jasmine, Karma, Protractor, Mocha test runners.  • Pleasant Experience in Bug tracking tools like JIRA, HP Quality Center and Bugzilla.  • Knowledge of utilizing cloud technologies including Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure Blob and Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF).  • Familiarity with code versioning tools such asCVS, GIT, SVN and Clear-Case for Source Code version management.  • Experience in Jenkins and Maven.  • Expertise in using IDE tools such as Notepad ++, Web Matrix, Eclipse, Sublime Text Editor, Intell IJ IDEA, and Web Storm.  • Experience in all phase of SDLC like RequirementAnalysis, Implementation, Maintenance, and extensive experience with Agile and SCRUM.  • Ability to work effectively while working as a team member as well as individually.  • Excellent communication and Inter-Personal Skills, well organized, goal oriented. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Developer/ React JS Developer DHHS State of NC - Raleigh, NC November 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Design, develop and test HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery and React.JS that meets accessibility and web browser standards for website.  • Designed CSS templates for use in all pages on the website working with CSS Background, positioning, text, border, margin, padding, and table.  • Developing new user-facing features using React.js  • Applied optimization techniques to reduce page size and load times to enhance user experience using sprites.  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux for SPA development.  • Implemented react JS code to handle cross browser compatibility issues in Mozilla, IE 7, 8, 9, Safari and FF.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Used Web services (SOAP and RESTful) for transmission of large blocks of XML/JSON.  • Worked on responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React.js.  • Maintained states in the stores and dispatched the actions using redux.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using React-Draggable.  • Used React-Autocomplete for creating Google maps location search on the webpage Added Excel-Builder to download the Tabular data in Excel format using react.  • Used Excel Builder 3rd Party open source library and tweak it to make sure it will work with IE11.  • Used flickity.js for creating carousel-images.  • Component for UX-Library consisted of Button, Checkbox, Input, Icons, Toggle Button, Dropdown, Multi-Level Dropdown and many more.  • In Phase Two, worked closely with the Back-End team to display data using the Custom Components, library Components andRedux.  • Used Middleware, Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Back-End and to also perform RESTFUL services.  • Added Dynamic Functionality by creating and dispatching Action Creators that deployed Actions.  • Created and used Reducers that received said Actions to modify the Store State Tree.  • Optimized animation logic with optimistic functions to increase performance in rendering.  • Worked with backend engineers to optimize existing API calls to create efficiencies by deprecating unneeded API calls.  • Called the Restful web services calls for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods.  • Have worked on AWS for fetch the pictures files from AWSto UI.  • Used React flux to polish the data and for single directional flow.  • Used Object Oriented Programming concepts to develop UI components that could be reused across the Web Application.  • Extensively used Gitfor version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.  • Designed and implemented data access layer using ADO.NET to connect, retrieve and manipulate database information.  • Created SQLSERVER stored procedures and executed them using ADO.NET.  • Used JIRA as the bug tracking system to track and maintain the history of bugs/issues on everyday basis.  • Worked with JASMINE unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code.  • Extensively used debugging tools such as Firebug and IE Dev tools to investigate the issues and fix the bugs.  • Monitoring the offshore work and providing technical help to the offshore team for their JIRA tickets.  • Interacted with Testing Team, Scrum Masters and Business Analysts for fixing of Issues.  • Performed the System Testing, Regression Testing for Complete UI after fixing the Issues which are reported by Testing Team.  Environment: HTML 5, CSS3, SASS, LESS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Ajax, React JS, Redux, Flex, SQL Server, XML, XSL, XSLT, JSON, Git hub, Restful API, AWS, JIRA, Jasmine and Web Strom UI Developer/React js developer AT&T - Plano, TX March 2017 to October 2018 Responsibilities:  • Participated with end users and business analyst to understand the business requirements.  • Built rich front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap.  • Creating React.js / Redux front-end UI, and Node.js applications for backend.  • Leveraged React.js resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs and standardizing data access interfaces.  • Maintaining Parent and child elements by using State and Props in React.js.  • React and Functional Driven JavaScript expert in SPAs, UI Components, Mobile web and Performance optimization.  • Skilled in leading frameworks as React.js to build high-quality, scalable and reusable components and Front-end solution.  • Tested and applied the branding on a step by step procedure using Jasmine.  • Created custom filter in React.JS in the application.  • Used services to read data from remote server using React.JS  • Used React.js library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Created React.js for reusable components (multi-field form elements, background file uploads.  • Maintained states in the stores and dispatched the actions using redux.  • Implemented React.js Controllers to maintain each view data.  • Implemented flux pattern by using redux framework as a core dependency.  • Architected and Developed for Large Scale JavaScript Application with React.js  • Used various properties, parameters in ES6.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using React-Draggable  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application  • Called the Restful web services calls for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods.  • Developed, implemented and tested Node.js applications  • Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the project status.  • Extensively used Gitfor version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.  • Worked with Mocha unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code.  • Wrote code to handle cross browser compatibility issues in IE 7, 8, 9 and FF.  • Performed the System Testing, Regression Testing for Complete UI after fixing the Issues which are reported by Testing Team.    Environment: HTML5, SAAS, CSS3, Bootstrap, JSON, React.js, Redux, Flex, Node JS, Express JS, JavaScript, AJAX, Core Java, Mocha, MVS, WebDriver, Sublime, GIT, Grunt, Firebug, Agile development, Jira, AWS. UI Developer/React JS Developer UNITED HEALTH GROUP - Plano, TX November 2014 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed client's website screens and front-end widgets using React.js.  • Developed UI using ReactJs and Redux and NextJS.  • Used Saga Middleware, Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Back-End.  • Worked on Redux for state manipulations and Redux Saga to implement API requests asynchronously.  • Used Middleware, Redux-Saga in application to retrieve data from Back-End and to also perform RESTFUL services.  • Extensively used Redux Sagas to manage side effects in React and Redux.  • Developed stored procedures, Triggers and functions in Oracle 10g to process the trades using PL/SQL and mapped it to Hibernate Configuration File and also established data integrity among all tables.  • Used Redux Thunk Middleware, in application to retrieve data from Back-End and to also perform RESTFUL services.  • Introduced redux-thunk and Immutable.js as additional libraries to support ReactJs application.  • Involved in processing JSON data from RESTful web service by using Axios to get resources from the database and populated data on the UI and used Redux-Saga as middleware.  • Used Axios to fetch the data by consuming the Rest API.  • Implemented a POC to pick a state management tool between Redux and MobX.  • Used ReactJs and MobX for front end development.  • Extensively used Reactjs, under score.js, Node JS and JavaScript object and array manipulations.  • Solved Callback hells in Node.JS by using Promises and Generators from ES6 resulting in unchaining of events and making the code efficient.  • Implemented JavaScript source code and embedded nested handling logic using jQuery event handlers and call back functions, es6.  • Developed certain features of the application functionality i.e. CRUD (Create, read, update, delete) features using Express JS, Node JS and Firebase.  • Used React Router Redux to store the route parameters in the redux store.  • Utilized Bootstrap and to develop a reactive website from a static JavaScript, Node JS, Bootstrap, Semantic UI,RESTful API, jQuery existing code base.  • Developed semantic markups and Wireframe development.  • Developed portions of HTML5-based game for use in an online gambling promotion.  • To manipulate the data type and handle multiple actions, uses Redux-Thunk as middleware.  • The Redux-Thunk middleware was used with the Redux store to retrieve contract data via a RESTful API implemented on the backend in Node.js and MongoDB. All development was done on MacOS and the source code was managed via GIT.  • Used EcmaScript, ReactJS, Flux, Babel, Node and Web-Pack to create a SPA.  • Used Babel, web pack and react JSX presets.  • Used webpack to make the development environment better.  • Used Node.js to run Webpack tasks and build properly the project.  • Worked with Grunt and used plugins - uglify, concat, replace, eslint, jslint, sprite.  • worked with regression testing using Jslint and Selenium.  • Designing, Coding (development) and Debugging application using Eclipse Indigo as an IDE, Spring JDBC framework and DAO pattern, HTML5, CSS3, and JQuery.  • Developed forms using HTML and performing client side validations using Java Script.  • Developed user interface using JSP, HTML, XHTML and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application. Good knowledge in Twitter Bootstrap and Responsive Design.  • Configure MONGODB Sharded cluster with Replica Set (HA) on Different AWS regions.  • Developed various reusable helper and utility classes using Java Beans with Eclipse editor.  • Designed, developed and tested the Websphere Portal Application based on Model, View, Controller (MVC) architecture deployed on IBM Web Sphere Portal /Application Server.  • Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using Spring, MongoDB, Apache CXF, and JAX-RS.  • Used Node.JS Package Manager (NPM) to manage the dependencies in Node JS modules.  • Used HP Quality Center to keep track of outstanding bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and improve communication.  • Interacted with Testing Team, Scrum Masters and Business Analysts for Fixing of Issues.  • Primarily using Node JS, Express JS, MONGODB, Handlebars.js and npm packages to integrate new functionality and maintain previous code.  • Involved in another project in Enhancement of existing application utilizing React JS.  • Migrated existing codebase from flux to Redux and rebuilt react components in ES6.  • Implemented a custom Node JS script to act as a PROXY for connecting to the server.  • Attended Daily standup meetings (Scrum), Estimation meetings and Requirement review meetings to analyze requirements for project    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Express JS, Node JS, React Js, Redux, Flux,NgInx, Grunt, NPM, GIT, Mocha, Chai, Web Storm, Chrome, Firefox, IE 10+ Software Developer Inovalon - Snellville, GA June 2012 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  • Communicate with the client to understand the requirement of the website, gained experience in project planning, involved in writing the Project Design Document and Project Plan Document.  • Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML and CSS.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using JavaScript, JQuery, CSS and HTML.  • Extensively used JQUERY, JSON and AJAX to create interactive web applications like message posting and auto complete form validations.  • Implemented and designed user interface for web based customer application.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Backbone.js.  • Developed customer facing software for managing advertisements to grow the business using Backbone.js, JavaScript/jQuery, HTML and CSS.  • Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using client side scripting using JavaScript.  • Used Object Oriented Programming concepts to develop UI components that could be reused across the Web Application.  • Responsible for experimenting with new frameworks and libraries to make decision either should be used in the product/project or not.  • Created Responsive Designs (Mobile/Tablet/Desktop) using HTML & CSS, Bootstrap.  • Maintained 24/7 high volume availability using open source tools such as Linux, Apache, and MySQL.  • Extensively used GIT for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.  • Interacted with Testing Team, Scrum Masters and Business Analysts for fixing of Issues  • Interacted with Customers and development teams for Fix the Issues.  • Performed the System Testing, Regression Testing for Complete UI after fixing the Issues which are reported by Testing Team.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.    Environment: HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY, Backbone JS AJAX, JSON, XML, ECLIPSE, GIT, MVC, Linux, Apache and MySQL. Software Developer CITI Bank - Township of Warren, NJ March 2010 to May 2012 Responsibilities:  • Designed and created domain model and schema using Object Oriented Design / UML diagrams.  • Designed user interface screens using JSP, Servlets, Struts tags, HTML. Used JavaScript for client-side validation, CSS, JQuery, and AJAX for further support.  • Strong understanding of the software development cycle, especially Agile/Scrum.  • Responsible for creating class diagrams, sequence diagrams, use case diagrams, object model diagrams, and deployment diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Implemented complex back-end component to get the count in no time against large size database using Java multi-threading.  • Designed / Developed complex use cases and reusable components.  • Provided technical guidance to business analyst, gather the requirements and convert them into technical specifications for developers to start.  • Developed and tested user-friendly navigators by utilizing JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed Unit test cases using Junit.  • Created JSP for user interface.  • Designed and developed REST web services and return the valid response after processing.  • Set up the development environment in Web Sphere Application Developer (WSAD).  • Involvement in fixing the bugs based on the client requirements and involved in the enhancements for the web forms.  Environment: AJAX, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JSP, WebSphere, Servlets, jQuery, JUnit. Education Bachelor's Skills C#, C++, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Redux, Json, Vb.net, Ajax, Asp, Dreamweaver, Iis, Iis 6, Asp.net, Tomcat, Web server, Web services, Web sphere, Weblogic Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Web Technologies  HTML, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, WordPress, JSON, Twitter Bootstrap, React JS,Redux,Flex, Express JS, Node.js, GitHub, JAVA, J2EE    Development tools Eclipse, Web Matrix, Web Strom, Bonita, Sublime, Dreamweaver, and Notepad++.  Debugging tools Firebug, Bugzilla, Chrome Developer Tools, IntellIJ.  Frameworks React JS, Angular JS (1.x), Node JS.  Servers IBM Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat, BEA WebLogic 8.1, HTTP Web Server.  Platforms Windows 95/98/NT/2000/XP/Vista, Sun Solaris 9/10, IBM-AIX 5.2/5.3, Linux 5/6.  Methodologies: Agile, Rational Unified Process (RUP), UML Water fall  Database MONGO DB, PostgreSQL, Spunk data storage (Big data), Oracle 8i, 9i, 10g, SQL Server 2000, 2005 & 2008; IIS 6.0/7.0  Frond End Tools CorelDraw, Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop CS5, Illustrator  Testing Tools and Logging Frame Works Junit3.8/4.0, Load runner, Jasmine, Selenium, T-probe, Easy Mock  Programming Languages C, C++, JAVA, MySQL, C#, VB.Net, ASP.Net, web Services.  Cloud AWS, Assure, IBM Cloud