Lead Software Engineer / Software Architect Lead <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer / <span class="hl">Software</span> Architect Lead Software Engineer / Software Architect - ChatDesk Savannah, GA Full stack software engineer with strong background in modern software development techniques, architecting and implementing software solutions for onsite as well as cloud environments. Work Experience Lead Software Engineer / Software Architect ChatDesk March 2016 to Present 1. I designed, architected and oversaw the implementation of key products that helped our company to attract funding and grow.  2. I lead a team of engineers, ensuring that our products are robust, reliable and efficient.  3. I influenced the adoption of good software engineering practices such as code reviews, continuous integration/delivery (CI/CD) and coding standards to minimize our risk while delivering products that delight our customers.  4. I ensure that my team deliver new features successfully, by providing technical assistance and coaching to members of my engineering team.  5. When required I optimize code for our client facing products, helping to increase product performance, and reduce compute costs.  6. I participate in hiring some of the brightest software engineers in the team. Software Engineer Novadge February 2012 to February 2016 1. I interfaced with clients and engineering gathering requirements and ensuring that we delivered reliable software solutions that met client's needs.  2. I designed and built a document management system that client used to control the life cycle of documents within their organization thereby increasing their workflow efficiency and accountability.  3. I designed and built an electronic health records system from scratch and sold it to hospitals. It helped clients improve their services for thousands of patients across Nigeria.  4. I built a data gathering and analysis system that a state government organization in Nigeria used to gather, analyze and visualize data from farmers and farms across the state, helping them make better decisions. Software Developer Xangee Technologies March 2011 to February 2012 1. I gathered software requirements from clients and ensured that we captured all the important details about the client's needs so we can minimize risk while building the clients software.  2. I facilitated the successful completion of a project to digitize half a million paper-based records for the government by ensuring that our services met the required quality standards. Software Developer Intern Quanteq Technologies Services June 2009 to August 2009 1. I participated in design of the user interface for a payroll management system which was deployed for a government organization.  2. I participated in the creation of 'easy-to-understand' documentation for end users of the system.  3. I helped train over 40 new users for the payroll system. Education MSc in Computer Science Georgia Institute of Technology August 2017 to December 2019 BSc in Computer Science American University of Nigeria January 2007 to December 2010 Skills Android (Less than 1 year), GIT (6 years), HTML, XML, Linux, Javascript, Java (9 years), SQL, Jquery, Javascript (6 years), Python (1 year), MYSQL (8 years) Assessments Data Analysis — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/glhqg3wko-dxq1dv Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS  Programming Languages: Java, Groovy, JavaScript, Python  Cloud services: Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud  Platforms: Linux, Windows, Android  Database: MySQL, SQL Server  Frameworks: Grails, Nodejs  Others: Docker, Angular, VueJS, GIT, Software Analysis and Design, AI/Machine Learning