Associate Software Engineer Associate <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Associate Software Engineer Florence, SC Motivated and results-oriented Software Engineer with proven experience in developing innovative software and enhancing the quality of existing applications. Offers flawless work ethic, strong attention to detail, and ability to devise unique, forward-thinking solutions with a constant focus on continuous improvement. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Associate Software Engineer ACS Technologies Group, Inc. - Florence, SC December 2017 to Present In my current role, I maintain and develop many corporate applications that serve a wide range of business needs. I have helped move the IT corporate development team forward by integrating CI/CD practices and AWS infrastructure into our software development workflow.    Notable Projects:  • Developed a PCI compliant payment iFrame microservice that integrates with our current payment processor. This solution allows any corporate application to consume the service without being tied to rigorous PCI guidelines.  • Began implementation of automated build, test, and deployment of .NET and .NET Core applications through CI/CD, using IT’s current source control (GitLab). Build, test, and deploy tasks were previously done 100% manually.  • Implemented a proof-of-concept cloud infrastructure for corporate web applications in order to begin IT’s long-term initiative of moving to the cloud. Placed a web service in Amazon EC2, and later refined the architecture to allow the service to be hosted in a Linux Docker container, orchestrated by Amazon ECS Fargate. Application deployment was scripted to support CI/CD via GitLab.  • Provided multiple solutions that integrate with our CRM, including email templates and logging of client email communication directly from Gmail. Apprentice Software Engineer ACS Technologies Group, Inc. - Florence, SC August 2017 to November 2017 • Maintained and developed corporate applications primarily using .NET Framework.  • Followed agile scrum principles as part of the IT corporate development team.  • Communicated with stakeholders and responded to requests for fixes and new features. Software Developer Intern II ACS Technologies Group, Inc. - Florence, SC May 2017 to July 2017 • Worked in a 5-person agile intern team as a software developer.  • Created an open-source marketplace microservice API written in Go with a sample front-end written in Vue.js Software Developer Intern ACS Technologies - Florence, SC August 2016 to December 2016 • Learned the fundamentals of front-end software development and agile methodologies.  • Worked on prototype front-end components for the company’s flagship web-based software. Office Assistant The News Observer - Blue Ridge, GA September 2013 to November 2013 • Placed/edited subscription orders and classifieds for customers  • Assisted customers with any issues regarding ads or subscriptions  • Created classified ads and edited various articles for release Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Francis Marion University - Florence, SC January 2015 to May 2017 Skills Java (3 years), Agile development, HTML 5, Javascript (3 years), Software Development (3 years), Technical Writing, Vue.js (1 year), .NET (3 years), AWS (1 year), Asp.Net (3 years), Git (4 years) Awards Computer Science Award 2017-04 Francis Marion University McCrimmon Writing Award 2016-04 Francis Marion University Groups Association for Computing Machinery December 2015 to Present