Computer Programmer and Sr. Fullstack developer Computer Programmer and Sr. Fullstack <span class="hl">developer</span> Computer Programmer and Sr. Fullstack developer - Magilla Inc Sacramento, CA I have held responsible positions in a number of companies experiencing different web technologies and services as a Computer Programmer and Sr Full Stack Developer and Software Developer. My practical experience includes systems administration, support, software development, testing, specifications, security policy and people management. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Computer Programmer and Sr. Fullstack developer Magilla Inc - Sacramento, CA November 2016 to Present Website: www.magillaloans.com, www.account.magillaloans.com    ? Work with supervisor to manage large, complex design projects for corporate lenders and borrowers.  ? Develop project concepts and maintain optimal workflow.  ? Complete detailed programming and development tasks for front end public and internal websites, along with the back-end server coding.  ? Collaborate with designers to create clean interfaces and simple, intuitive interactions and experiences.  ? Carry out quality assurance tests to discover errors and optimize usability.  ? Developed different graphical automated reports for the admins.  ? Created the admin dashboard for the admin users of the company.  ? Redesigned various parts of the website to improvise the user experience.  ? Continuous development of new ideas and deploy new features for the website.  ? Designing and maintaining the database as required by the new features.  ? Developed 5 different tiers/ subscription plan for the lenders.  ? Automating the system like creating a roadblock for the lenders so that they can acknowledge the admin about the status of the loan.  ? Created Badges and Achievements for the lenders along with its UI. Badges are allotted depending on their relationship with the company and achievements are achieved based on the number of interactions with the system.  ? Built an interface where the cron scripts runs by itself every day and makes automatic proposals to the loans which meets the criteria.  ? GitHub enterprise management - Providing developer's access, maintaining the versions, regular updates and maintenance.  ? Creating and maintaining the instances in amazon web services (AWS).  ? Adding SSL certificates to the websites to prevent security breakdown.  ? Developed the desktop notification by integrating Twillo, email notification by integrating MailGun and phone notification by integrating OneSignalClient, for the activities done between lenders and the borrowers.  ? Integrated Facebook and Google API for single sign on for the borrowers.  ? Integrated Optimal Blue, a pricing engine, into the website which is regularly used by the lenders for making proposals in the loans.  ? Integrated Blacknight and Zillow into the website, for providing a proper Zestimate, idea about the locality and the surrounding of the property.  ? Created the payment model using stripe integrating in a customized manner and PayPal.  ? Used AJAX, JSON with jQuery for request data and response processing.  ? Used PUTTY for debugging and connect to my remote files in server securely using SSH Encryption (public key and private key) and WinSCP to transfer files between local and remote folders and change file permissions  ? Extensively worked on subroutines for different APIs using Perl, modifying and creating new connections to Database. Worked on internal tool which is purely based on PHP  ? Design and deploy API specification with testing case (Selenium).  ? Created different customizable themes for users which named as “whitelabel” the website and the app.  ? Troubleshooting issues affecting production, stage, and development environments as requested.  ? Did Code reviews and optimization before it is deployed to staging and production server.  ? Integrated Google analytics and tag manager to improve the SEO and collecting data from the website. Added different tracking codes to tag & track 'advertising, social, PR campaign or different kinds of campaign' on the platform/website. Integrating them helped me provide exact information on the following:  ? Deliver monthly performance reports and daily loan reports to quantify the impact of marketing & business adjustments.  ? Plan and improvise various research projects, and work closely with businesses and senior management to interpret findings in graphical manner.  ? Build and manage a marketing dashboard that portrays key performance indicators for campaigns and different marketing channels.  ? Identify various opportunities for performance improvement, partnering with marketing & sales to support business cases Software Developer Wireless Mobi Solution Inc - San Diego, CA June 2016 to October 2016 Website: www.moviphones.com.    ? Developing, enhancing and maintaining global e-commerce websites by performing routine updates  ? Developing new products and pages as necessary, working with designers and stakeholders  ? Working as a technical consultant for any new website functionality prior to implementation  ? Assisting in the modification of company's external and internal websites based on user feedback.  ? Troubleshooting and resolving issues, problems, and errors encountered across our web properties, internal applications, and systems as reported or experienced  ? Researching on industry technical trends and new development to maintain current skills and remain current with industry standards  ? Up-to-date with the latest UI trends, techniques, and technologies  ? Code, test, debug, fix, and document the website  ? Providing post-launch verification of features and changes.  ? Integrated Google analytics and tag manager to improve the SEO of the site. Software Developer Tutelminds Techno-consultants Pvt. Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra March 2014 to May 2014 Designed various java and php based web solutions which includes websites and marketing tools of manufacturing companies Integrated Google analytics and tag manager to improve the SEO of the site.  ? Build up projects like TLMS, ticket management system.  ? Documentations, taking on and off call interviews and understanding their requirements and resolving post-delivery issues Assisting in the modification of company's external and internal websites based on user feedback. Software Developer Tutelmids Educational Solutions Pvt. Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra February 2012 to February 2014 Designed websites, java and php based web solutions, built a project called ticket management systems, etc. Integrated Google analytics and tag manager to improve the SEO of the site.  ? Documented everything relevant to the websites and the project  ? Took many on and off call interviews and gave customer support as well Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science California State University - Fullerton, CA 2014 to 2016 BE in Computer Science in Computer Science SVERI's College of Engineering 2007 to 2013 Skills PHP5 (6 years), PHP7 (5 years), PHP MVC (5 years), ZEND Framework (5 years), Laravel Framework (1 year), MySQL (5 years), Web Services (5 years), Soap (3 years), REST/ RESTful APIs (5 years), cURL (4 years), Composer (5 years), Search Engine Optimization (5 years), Javascript (5 years), Jquery (5 years), Ajax (5 years), Json (5 years), Xml (5 years), HTML 5 (5 years), HTML (5 years), CSS3 (5 years), CSS (5 years), Ecommerce (4 years), Opencart 2.0 (3 years), Wordpress (3 years), Shopify (3 years), Squarespace (3 years), Amazon Web Services - EC2 Instance, RDS Instance (5 years), Apache-tomcat (6 years), Wamp, Xampp (5 years), Bootstrap (5 years), SASS/LESS (3 years), Google Analytics (5 years), Google Tag manager (4 years), Google Maps API integration (5 years), OneSignal Client API Integration (5 years), Twillio API Integration (5 years), MailGun API Integration (5 years), Stripe API Integration (5 years), Paypal API Integration (5 years), Facebook Single Signup API Integration (5 years), Google Single Signup API Integration (5 years), Optimal Blue Pricing Engine API Integration (5 years), Blacknight API Integration (5 years), Zillow API Integration (5 years), TransUnion API Integration (5 years), Agile API Integration (5 years), Artificial Intelligence API Integration (5 years), Web Design (5 years), Web Development (5 years), Github Enterprise Management (5 years), Atlassian (3 years), BitBucket (3 years), Sublime (5 years), NetBeans (5 years), Eclipse (5 years), Adobe Photoshop (5 years), Adobe Dreamweaver (5 years), Mysql workbench (5 years), Php My Admin (5 years), Office 365 package (6 years), Core Java (2 years), Advanced Java (2 years), Selenium (2 years), C (1 year), C++ (1 year), Strategic Planning (5 years), Strategy Development (5 years), Code Reviews (5 years), Troubleshooting (5 years), Requirements Gathering (5 years), Requirements Analysis (5 years), Requirements Management (4 years), Scrum (5 years), Object Oriented Programming Concepts (8 years), Data Structure and Algorithms (5 years) Certifications/Licenses PHP - ITECH CONNECT June 2011 to Present JAVA PROGRAMMING - SEED Infotech Ltd May 2011 to Present C Programming - NIIT August 2009 to Present C++ Programming - NIIT August 2009 to Present Data Structure and Algorithm - NIIT May 2009 to Present Publications Digital Forensics and Data privacy 2015-11 This paper describes the various issues between data privacy and digital forensics, about various policies and stats used to support data privacy. This paper will also give the overview of how the computer forensics worked in the past and how it is working at the present. Privacy invasion and identity theft are the two important terms which are regularly involved against data privacy. New Involvement of Android in Our Day to Day Life 2012-10 The experiences gained while building up this paper were invaluable for me since I learned the serviceability and functionality of various real world applications. There I grasped the application of computer technologies in various sections. Working on all the phases of Software development life cycle during the project development, broadened my vision of Computer Science and how diverse its developmental stages be Additional Information What I'm looking for, is this you?  Ø Company with a positive ethical stance  Ø Direct engineering hands-on involvement  Ø Manage a team, will be a plus.  Ø Time and opportunity to learn and apply emerging technologies  Ø Work hard but not 24/7    ACADEMIC PROJECTS    PHP:   [Refer Portfolio]  Ø Façade Bistro Website   Ø Shopify Website  Ø WordPress Website    JAVA:   Ø Handwriting Pattern recognition [Github Link]  Ø Online compiler with cloud computing (smart lab) [Github Link]       R PROGRAMMING:   Ø Sales estimation using KDD  [Github Link]    PYTHON:   Ø Face detection and tracking software [Github Link]    OBJECTIVE C: [Github Link]  Ø Location finder using augmented reality app  Ø Height Measurement using camera app  Ø Fractional Calculator app  Ø Sunrise-sunset app  Ø BMI calculator app           