Net Developer Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Net Developer - AON/TCS, MN Minneapolis, MN • Around 8+ years of experience in software design, development, maintenance, unit testing, debugging and troubleshooting Inter/Intranet based software applications using Microsoft Technologies.  • Worked in all phases of SDLC including requirements gathering, analysis, graphic user interface (GUI) design, reviews, scoping, coding, testing, debugging, documenting, building and deployment.  • Experience in Coding and Development using Microsoft .Net technologies ASP.NET, C#.NET, VB.NET, ADO.NET&AJAX, LINQ, XML, XSLT, XSD • Experience in XML/XSLT and web technologies desired (SOAP and/or RESTful web services, SOA, etc.) • Experience in Design, Developing, Bug Fixing and Testing using Microsoft .Net technologies ASP.NET, C#.NET for a windows application which is used to perform diagnostic report in Trucks.  • Experience in Visual studio 2008/2010/2012/2013/2015, .Net Framework 3.5/4.0/4.5/4.5.1/4.6 • Expertise in Web Forms, Win Forms using .Net Technologies.  • Proficient in working with databases including SQL Server 2005/2008 R2/2012, SQL Client and MySQL.  • Proficient in working with Web Services, Restful WCF & Web API, WPF, User Controls using Views.  • Proficient in working with Exception Handling and logging using Enterprise Application block Log4Net.  • Proficient in working with Entity Framework, Telerik Kendo UI • Hands on Experience on ASP.NET State Management techniques like View state, Cookies, Query strings & Session management.  • Expertise in designing ASP.NET based GUI with CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Multithreading, HTML, HTML5, AngularJS2 • Good domain knowledge on Insurance, Financial, Retail Management, Product based Development.  • Good working experience in HTML5 & Responsiveness in multiple device resolutions.  • Proficient in working with Dependency Injection in Web API.  • Experienced in End-to-End Software Development Life Cycle using Waterfall (SDLC), Agile Methodologies • Participated in sprint planning, daily scrums, testing, retrospectives and sprint reviews.  • Good in working with Third Party integrations like ASP.NET Charts Twitter.  • Proficient in working with URL Redirection, SEO Related changes and SMTP Email API Integration.  • Proficient in working with 3-Tier Architecture and Architectural design pattern like MVC, MVVM.  • Experience on visual studio ultimate on developing Coded UI testing, Automation, Load and performance testing with visual studio ultimate.  • Highly organized with the ability to manage multiple projects and meet deadlines.  • Excellent verbal and interpersonal skills, good analytical and debugging skills; systematic approach to system architecture design and programming tasks. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Net Developer AON/TCS, MN September 2018 to Present NFS Edge offers a comprehensive suite of private flood options and is focused on, educating insurance agents and property owners through the complexities of flood insurance and providing customized solutions designed to address a broad range of needs - before, during and after a flood.    Responsibilities: • The endures development of insurance software used for flood insurance to the agencies and property owners.  • 100% agile methodology, we have daily scrum and 3-week sprint where every sprint consists of 32-point stories.  • Followed Kanban methodology.  • Supported the team by working on various product backlog items and bug fixing for each test build.  • Implemented .Net framework, N-tier architecture and Object-Oriented methodologies for application development.  • Enhanced front end using ASP.NET, CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, and Bootstrap, and business logic using C#.  • Wrote several critical WCF based Web services providing response XMLS that were consumed by multiple systems.  • Implemented SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol) for communication of application.  • Developed Views, controllers and business logic models using C#.  • Implemented Queries using LINQ for effective access with database and easy handle of file operations and XML.  • Developing, implementing, and consuming Data Access Layers and Data Objects Using C#.  • Developed the application .Net Framework 4.5, C#, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, Angular JS, Ajax, Visual Studio2015.  • Implemented CRUD functionality with Entity framework in ASP.NET MVC and implemented sorting, filtering and paging with Entity framework in MVC.  • Written test cases and have performed unit testing for each of the task assigned and done thorough testing whenever there is a release using N-Unit.  • Inscribed SQL scripts and extensively designed and developed Stored Procedures,  Functions and Packages in SQL Server 2014 to execute various database routines.  • Implemented Software Configuration Management, setting up company Version Policies Utilizing Team Foundation Server (TFS) • Experience in CI/CD Process for the Applications until they get succeed.  • SOAP XML Integrations with various Background companies like JavaScript.  • Desirable Skills: Technical documentation, Automation, Manual Testing, SQA testing, Unit Testing.  • Worked in a fast-paced environment and followed agile methodology.    Environment: C#.NET, .Net Framework 4.5.2/4.7, .Net Core, WCF, Entity Framework, ASP.Net MVC5, Angular 4+, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS, SQL Server 2010/2014, SQL Server Compact, Team Foundation Server, Rally, WinForms, Log4Net, SSRS, VS 2010/2015/2017. Software Developer Eaton Corporations, MI June 2017 to June 2018 Service Ranger & Link Commander are the diagnostic software's used in the commercial vehicle market, to test the automated transmission and hybrid powertrain systems. Ranger is a Computer based electronic service and diagnostic program that provides access to your Eaton electronic products and by using this you can increase uptime, save money and perform accurate repair procedures, all while increasing productivity and profits. These are windows base applications, designed to communicate with vehicle component controllers via the vehicles diagnostic link connection. These software's complies with the SAE surface vehicle recommended practices for J1587 and J1939 vehicle communications, as well as the TMC RP1210-B communications standard developed for vehicle link adapter communications.    Responsibilities: • The continues development of diagnostic software used in the commercial vehicle market along with retail domain.  • Involving in Agile sprint and release planning activities and identify the user stories, estimation.  • Followed 100% agile methodology, we have daily scrum and 2-week sprint where every sprint consists of 24-point stories.  • Working with .Net Framework 4.5 to communicate with SQL Server and NoSQL • Designed database tables and created stored procedures, written complex queries for data binding and triggers.  • Worked with WPF for creating custom controls, data binding and graphics.  • Extended the WPF Toolkit Grid so that it can manage the columns, filter, search, and batch update.  • Experienced in CI/CD Process for the Applications until they get succeed.  • Extend the Combo box so that it should have a context menu for clear selection.  • Applied Multi-Threading techniques for creating high performance applications.  • Used Async and await approach with MVVM architecture.  • SOAP XML Integrations with various Background companies (JavaScript, VB.Net, VB6) • XLS Import and Export Functions (VB6).  • Working in an agile Environment to deliver higher-quality software for more rapidly.  • Developing windows application using C#.Net, WPF, Visual Studio 2015 and SQL Server 2010/2014.  • Created Custom Controls, User Controls, used Dependency Properties to bind data on these controls and reflection Metadata concepts.  • Worked on Dev express user controls for windows applications.  • Worked on Binding, Styles, Data Template, Control Template, Routed Events, Converters, Layout Panels in XAML.  • Used Model Base and ViewModelBase classes and their inbuilt functions for validation of Model objects and Properties in View Model classes.  • Designing WPF Forms, Custom Controls and User Controls using XAML language for interactive UI.  • Experienced in developing N-Hibernate to stores the mapping information in XML format in .hbm files.  • This .hbm file is used to map the entities to the corresponding database tables.  • Deployed application is migrated to Azure, Production & QA servers and managed application using Azure for the better Performance of the windows Applications.  • Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) for developing desktop applications.  • By using Dependency Injection for data binding on XAML pages.  • Created UI controls in XAML pages for WinForms.  • Implemented MVVM pattern for development.  • Successfully organized initial set of requirements into master list of Use Cases.  • Involved in development of Views, Classes using C#.NET that incorporates both MVC architecture and database connectivity.  • Worked on different aspects of .NET framework, like ASP.NET MVC 5.0, Entity Framework, MVVM, WPF and C#.  • Used Angular component architecture to modularize application and enhance separation of concern • Developed Document Management system in WPF using MVVM. The application was designed to securely let share documents across an organization.  • Expertise in both written and verbal skills • Desirable Skills: Technical documentation, Automation, Manual Testing, QA testing, Unit Testing • Worked in a fast-paced environment and followed agile methodology.    Environment: C#.NET, .Net Framework 4.5/4.5.2, .Net Core, WCF, WPF, Entity Framework, Autofac, ASP.Net MVC, Angular 4+, JavaScript, VB6, HTML5, CSS, SQL Server 2010/2014, Microsoft Azure, SQL Server Compact, Dev Express controls, Team Foundation Server, WinForms, Log4Net, SSRS, NHibernate, ORM, VS 2010/2015/2017. Net Developer University Management Systems - Penn, PA January 2016 to January 2016 Responsibilities: • Involved in Design, Development and Testing of the application.  • Worked with Business Analysts to understand Use Cases.  • Experience in creating Modules, Directives, Templates, Scope, Expressions, Data Binding, Validations, Filters, Services, Routing, Dependency Injection and Testing.  • Worked in Agile development and actively participated in the Scrum meeting's and successfully met sprint's.  • Experience in WCF and Web Services to provide SOA architecture and configuration-based applications on REST protocols.  • Worked on .net Com communication libraries and Equipment interfacing.  • Used Entity Framework to connect to Sql Server.  • Created Restful Web API endpoints for database operations (CRUD) by using Entity Framework.  • Worked on developing Complex MySQL Queries, tables, views and Stored Procedures in SqlServer • Used Validation controls to validate the input data using Validation Controls (like Required Field, Range, Custom and Compare Validators).  • Carried out code review meetings with the team members to ensure coding standards are followed.  • Developed WCF services to communicate between Data Access Layer and other business components.  • Designed and developed a Graphical User Interface (GUI) for the content management feature using ASP.NET MVC 5, C#, HTML5, CSS3 in Visual Studio 2013.  • Experience in client-side design and development using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, AngularJS 4 and Node JS.  • Created Angular components like Controller, Directives, Services and Forms to collect the input from the User.  • Created Angular Services and Injected in the components to organize and share code across application.  • Using Angular 4 in Client-side validations while rendering JSON validation errors in the backend.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for a web application, page navigation using Angular 2.  • Developed Angular Template driven forms and Model driven forms builder by using Model.  • Assists in the development and monitoring of project work plans.  • Directs developer group on and offshore on new developments, enhancements and remediation work.  • Delivers long-term support/management, troubleshoots/resolves issues daily.  • Used Windows workflow Foundation for managing workflow's • Wrote test method's using visual studio 2013 Ultimate.  • Developed processes to support the CI/CD process for organization • Migrated Crystal reports to SSRS • Used TFS/SVN for version control.  • Desirable Skills: Technical documentation, Manual Testing, QA testing, Unit Testing    Environment: .NET Framework 4.0, C#, VB.net, ASP.Net, MVC 5, Entity Framework, MySQL, DB2, LINQ, WCF, Node JS, SQL Server 2014, PHP, Java Script, Knockout JS, AngularJS 2/4+, Team Foundation Server, Log4Net, SSRS, React.js, Visual Studio 2013. Net Developer Value Labs March 2013 to June 2015 Responsibilities: • Worked on numerous tasks/assignments for web site enhancements and new modules creation for ion Wellness system.  • Implemented SOA architecture for interacting with the database and fetching the data using web services • Developed cross platform web services that communicates to Java and .Net.  • Used Microsoft SQL Server for Normalization, T-SQL, Store Procedures, Views and Indexes • Used HTTP Modules for controlling the events raised through stages of its lifecycle on the server • Extensively worked on the development of GUI using ASP.NET, HTML and Java Script and supported jQuery, Node JS scripts.  • Developing applications leveraging ADO.NET, LINQ to SQL, and Microsoft Enterprise Library Data Access Application Block.  • Development in PHP, MySQL, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, REST web services.  • Used AJAX client centric controls like modal popup, collapsible panel, accordion, calendar control, autocomplete extender etc.  • User AJAX server centric control's like Script manager, Script manager proxy and update panel for partial-post back.  • Used State Management concept's like Session, View state, Caching, Hidden fields for maintaining the state across post back's.  • Long form SEO highlight NoSQL's effects on business, the technology behind NoSQL databases, and best implement with an emphasis on DynamoDB.  • Experience in using Master pages to create a consistent layout of the pages.  • Developed user controls for code reusability.  • Used XML serialization and deserialization • Used Data View components like Grid View, Data list and Repeater Server Controls for working interactively with the data.  • Responsible for Installing, configured and administered Splunk Enterprise on Linux and Windows servers.  • Used List object, dictionary for storing the data and populate them on the grid and to compare the key, value pair's • Used OOPs concepts like encapsulation, polymorphism and Inheritance.  • Created WCF web services to communicate with the data access layer • Involved in deployment of project in different stages like Development, Integration and Pre-production.  • Used Output caching for caching the frequently used data • Worked in Agile development and actively participated in the Scrum meeting's and successfully met sprint's • Participated in the production support.  • Used SSRS reports for creating drill down report's • Actively involved in the support of Falcon Dialysis • Used star point for version control.  • Performed transfer and loading of files to DB • Developed Windows applications and custom controls.  • Worked in Scheduling applications and billing managements applications.    Environment: Visual Studio 2010, SQL Server 2005/2008, DB, SSRS, C#.NET, ADO.NET, ASP.NET, VB.NET, Microsoft Enterprise Library, Document DB, Ajax, PHP, Java Script, Framework 4.0, WCF, TFS, Entity Framework. Net Developer Cloud Ray Inc January 2011 to February 2013 Responsibilities: • Worked as a .Net developer • Developing windows and web-based interfaces that will be connected to the sql server database.  • Developing stored procedures, functions, views on database side • Used Microsoft SQL Server for Normalization, T-SQL, Store Procedures, Views and Indexes • Worked on Dev express user controls for windows applications • Extensively worked on the development of GUI using ASP.NET, HTML and Java Script) • Developing applications leveraging ADO.NET, and Microsoft Enterprise Library Data Access Application Block.  • Design, develop, test, debug, and implement Silverlight based applications following the MVVM framework template.  • Implemented various user controls in Silverlight which are used extensively in various parts of the application.  • User AJAX server centric control's like Script manager to get seamen less asynchronous response for webpages • Used State Management concept's like Session, View state, Caching, Hidden fields for maintaining the state across post back's.  • Writing Unix scripts to perform encryption / decryption functionalities and SFTP set up.  • Experience in using Master pages to create a consistent layout of the pages.  • Developed user controls for code reusability.  • Application test management which is developed by C#, WPF, MVVM, XAML, T-SQL.  • Used Data View components like Grid View, Data list and Repeater Server Controls for working interactively with the data.  • Worked with WPF for creating custom controls, data binding and graphics • Used OOPs concepts like encapsulation, polymorphism and Inheritance.  • Involved in deployment of project in different stages like Development, Integration and Pre-production.  • Used Output caching for caching the frequently used data • Participated in the production support.  • Used Crystal reports for creating drill down report's • Developed Windows applications and custom controls.  • Worked on Staff/Student management modules • Developed utilities modules that will do LDAP/Custom authentication for all the resources.    Environment: Visual Studio 2005, SQL Server 2000/2005, C#, ASP.NET, MVVM, XAML, WPF, VB.NET, Crystal reports 2005, Dev Express controls, WinForms, Bugzilla, SVN. Education Bachelor's Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages: C#.Net, VB.NET  Microsoft Technologies: ASP.NET, MVC4.0/5.2/6.0, AngularJS1.3/1.4/1.5/2.0/4.0/5.0 C#.Net, ADO.Net, Web Services, Web API 2.0, WPF, AJAX, JSON, React JS.  Scripting Languages: JavaScript, PHP, jQuery, VBScript, Node JS  Reporting Tools: Crystal Reports, SSRS    Operating Systems: Windows 2007,08,10, Unix, and Linux.  Databases: Microsoft SQL Server 2008,2012,2014.  IDE: Microsoft Visual Studio 2008/2010/2015/2017.  XML Technologies: XML, XAML, XSLT.  Cloud Platform: Microsoft Azure, AWS.  Frame Work: .Net Frameworks 4.5/4.7, Entity Framework, Kendo UI.  Version Control: TFS, GitHub, VSTS, Rally.