Sr. Software Engineer Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Sr. Software Engineer - FEP Operations Center Washington, DC Phone  (610) 509-1576  E-mail  uppala.work@gmail.com Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Sr. Software Engineer FEP Operations Center - Washington, DC November 2017 to Present • Estimated work hours and tracked progress using Agile/SCRUM methodology.  • Worked with project managers, developers, quality assurance and customers to resolve technical issues.  • Created proofs of concept for innovative new solutions.  • Suggested improvements to team and project workflow.  • Implemented themes, portlets layouts and jsp overrides. Sr. Software Engineer Hp Inc - Boise, ID February 2017 to October 2017 • Gathered and defined customer requirements to develop well-organized project plans based on clear specifications.  • Reviewed code, debugged problems and corrected issues.  • Discussed project progress with customers, collected feedback on different stages and directly addressed concerns.  • Maintained existing applications and designed and delivered new applications. Sr. Liferay Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions - Bridgewater, NJ January 2016 to January 2017 • Developed landing pages, dashboards and online applications using jsp, javascript, jquery.  • Participated in requirements gathering and design development meetings.  • Collaborated in team-based, Agile environment to accomplish objectives in measured and open manner.  • Reworked applications to meet changing market trends and individual customer demands.  • Recognized as subject matter expert for SIP portal(Shared Investigator Platform). Liferay Software Engineer Tractor Supply - Brentwood, TN April 2015 to December 2015 • Drafted comprehensive reports to document bugs and design flaws.  • Analyzed requirements and designed, developed and implemented software applications for multiple websites.  • Worked closely with other business analysts, development teams and infrastructure specialists to deliver high availability solutions for mission-critical applications. Software Engineer Nokia Siemens Networks - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2012 to November 2013 India  • Performed troubleshooting, diagnostics and analysis to uncover root malfunctions.  • Developed communication channels using java, spring framework and hibernate.  • Reviewed code and debugged errors to improve performance.  • Utilized knowledge of javascript, jquery and HTML to supplement Java development. Software Developer Hurix Systems Pvt. Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra July 2008 to July 2012 India  • Developed code fixes and enhancements for inclusion in future code releases and patches.  • Collaborated on all stages of systems development lifecycle, from requirements gathering to production releases.  • Designed, implemented and monitored web pages and sites for continuous improvement in fast-paced environment.    Social  LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/narendra-uppala  Facebook: www.facebook.com/narendra.uppala Education Masters of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Illinois At Springfield - Springfield, IL 2015 Skills Javascript (9 years), Spring (9 years), Java/j2ee (9 years), Javascript (9 years), Liferay DXP (5 years) Additional Information Skills  Programming: Java/J2EE  Frameworks: Spring, hibernate, jsf, Liferay DXP  Cloud Technologies: AWS  CI/CD Tools: Jenkins  Build Tools: ANT, Maven, Gradle  Languages: Java Script, Shell Scripting (bash), JSON, Python.  Databases: Oracle, MySQL  Virtualization Tools: Oracle VM Virtual Box, VMWare  Versions Control Tools: Git, Sub-versions    Social Skills  Communication  Creativity  Team Player  Leadership  Social