Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - HealthFirst Inc Bothell, WA • Experienced full stack Web Applications Developer for 7 years  • Comfortable working on large scale applications and independently on smaller tasks  • Excellent analytical, communication, and structural design skills  • Ability to manage multiple projects simultaneously, while learning new technology Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer HealthFirst Inc April 2012 to Present OnTraq: OnTraq is a SaaS ( Software as a Service) application that provides End to End tracking for Medications and other Medical supplies for regulatory compliance and reporting.  The application integrates three business partners, Medical Suppliers, Provider Clinics and Medication Disposal Vendors. Any medical Supply can be tracked from the Supplier all the way to its disposal.  It also provides Medical expiration, upcoming medications refill alerts and is integrated with other third-party application such as e-store and e-payment for online purchases and payments.  The OntraQ system is integrated with UPS and USPS to track all the medical shipments.  Responsibilities: In this project, I worked on creating a single page application with responsive design. Worked closely with Business analyst to gather the requirements and turned those requirements into wireframes. Time to time worked on the backend to debug the developed feature.  Technologies Used:  Angular, PHP, SQL Server, Docker, ELT Transformation, jQuery UI Bootstrap, Ajax, Adobe Photoshop,    Notification Engine: Worked on creating notification engine a central hub software that acts on events generated by OnTrQ to generate a notification to providers, finance, billing, and vendors. Notification engine also sends timely emails to business customers. The purpose of these notifications to inform the customers ahead of time about their upcoming medical shipments so that customers can have enough time to cancel their shipments or take any appropriate action. It is also beneficial for business, it reduces the shipping and returns cost if the customer cancels or change their shipment ahead of time.  Responsibilities: As this project is designed to send the notification using Mandrill APIs, I worked on creating C# service to send the notification to customers who supposed to receive notification for whenever or whatever reason. Created the responsive email templates using Mailchimp.  Technologies Used:  C#, SQL Server, ELT Transformation    Workbench: It is a set of tools that provide business features for internal customers to track Orders, validate Provider Licenses, provide upcoming Order Lists, Medical Documentation Management, Medical Compliance document management, management Reports etc.  Responsibilities: The workbench is an internal tool, consists of the number of applications, and used by the business. The applications for this tool are designed to resolve business users' problems and provide the information to the users that they need to run the business. Since HealthFirst is responsible for tracking and managing the medical kits and supply for Dentists and Airlines, the applications are designed to distribute the data on the frontend in such a way that the information makes sense to the user and make the layout responsive so that operations can access the same applications on small devices such as iPad or tablets. Worked on creating SSIS packages to move the data from database, feed to the APIs and then finally displayed on the frontend. Other than worked in creating visual reporting tools for internal users to provide key information of customer and licenses.  Technologies Used:  Angular, jQuery UI, Ajax, Adobe Photoshop, PHP, SOAP, Rest APIs, SQL Server, Docker, ELT Transformation    ERP - Microsoft Dynamics: Healthfirst heavily relies on Microsoft Dynamics systems to manage the company's financials, inventory, and operations. I am responsible to take care of day to day issues related to financials, inventory, and operations transactions. I have a good understanding of each module of Microsoft Dynamics, EPR system, and the relationship between each module.  Responsibilities: Worked with different departments including- sales, finance, to track and trace the issues related to ERP software. Worked on creating many SSRS reports for each department to check the upcoming shipment customer information. Also worked in creating working list panels for operations to display the lists of shipments and information of each shipped shipment.  Technologies Used:  HTML, CSS, JavaScript, C#, SQL Server, Integration Services including writing SSIS packages    Third Party Tools: Created applications for HealthFirst vendors to get real-time customer data. These vendors are licensed to dispose of environmental medical and sharp waste for HealthFirst.  Responsibilities: Responsible for creating the application for a third-party vendor to upload the serial by scanning the serial using USB scanners. This application has included a lot of frontend validation to check the serial number of each punched serial number in the system. Angular is used to create drag and drop favorite list of items that the vendors are processing for HealthFirst.  Technologies Used:  PHP, Angular, Adobe Photoshop, SQL Server, Docker, ELT Transformation Web Developer ExpertPlan - NJ September 2009 to November 2011 ExpertPlan, Inc. provides retirement plan solutions and services for companies and organizations. Worked on front end designing of web application components and testing front end. Also, implemented backend APIs and services to get backend data.  * Developed and maintained eCommerce websites.  * Built custom content and customer management systems for clients.  * Consulting and technical support for website improvements and algorithm analysis for clients. Education Bachelor in BAS-ITAM in BAS-ITAM Central Washington University Skills C#, Docker, Git, Php, Svn, Jquery, Javascript Additional Information Skills  Languages: C#, PHP, Angular, Express, Adobe Photoshop, PowerShell, SQL  Source Control: Git, SVN  Tools: Docker, Zend Framework, Bootstarp, ZenHub, Node Modules, Grunt, gulp-npm  Networking: HTTP, TCP/IP  Database: SQL Server, MySQL, MongoDB  Operating Systems: Linux, Windows  Business Applications: Mandrill, Axosoft, Microsoft GP (Great Plains)