Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Senior Software Engineer - The Fresh Market High Point, NC Work Experience Senior Software Engineer The Fresh Market - Greensboro, NC October 2017 to Present • Development of numerous Mobile Applications using Xamarin forms, C# for Android devices.  • Utilized MVVM Pattern to design various mobile applications.  • Development of Web APIs and Web Applications using ASP.NET, C#, MVC 5.  • Provided database connectivity using Entity Framework, LINQ.  • Developed automated unit tests for the developed code.  • Support of multiple existing applications as and when required. Software Engineer Developer Fidelity Investments - Durham, NC May 2012 to October 2017 • Development of various web application using ASP.NET, VB.NET, C#, Java.  • Development of back end interfaces using PL/SQL Stored Packages, Procedures, Functions, Collections and Triggers.  • REST and SOAP Web Service Design and Implementation  • Manage the deployment of the deliverables to the non-production environments  • Design and development of modules using best practices  • Perform unit testing with test cases for the developed code.  • Support of multiple applications as and when required. Education M.B.A. in Business Administration Keller Graduate School of Management - Morrisville, NC 2013 to 2016 B.S. in Business Administration University of New Hampshire - Durham, NH 2008 to 2012 Skills .net, Visual studio, C#, Javascript, Json, Sql server, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Sybase, Mvc, Mvvm, Angularjs, Eclipse, Java, Spring, Informatica Certifications/Licenses Scrum Master Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • Programming Languages: C#, Java, JavaScript, SQL, PL/SQL  • Web Technologies: .NET, Entity Framework, XAML, AngularJS, JSON  • Design Pattern: MVVM, MVC  • Development Tools: Spring Tool Suite, Eclipse, Visual Studio 2017, Informatica Power Center Client, RapidSQL  • Databases: SQL Server, Sybase, Oracle 9i/10g.    QUALIFICATIONS    • Experience working on development projects using Agile/Scrum methodology  • Team leader and developer of organizational, personal, and commercial sites.  • Ability to work independently or as part of a team.  • Proficient in time management.  • Self-motivated, detail-oriented and organized.  • Innovative, quick learner, ability to adapt to new challenges.