Software developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Software Developer San Francisco, CA I am a software developer with over ten years o f professional experience. I love building elegant software applications that use the latest technologies to automate processes and solve business problems. I have build technology solutions that incorporate VOIP, AI, and cloud technologies. My skill set includes NodeJS, Python, Javascript, and integration of cloud platforms.    My interests include cybersecurity, and I am a huge machine learning enthusiast.    I am about to obtain my Master's of Information Systems from Wilmington University, specializing in web engineering and courses in AI and cybersecurity. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software developer HubBase - San Francisco, CA 2018 to Present As a software developer at HubBase, I am in charge of putting together technology-related strategies and executing them. That includes software architecture, testing plan, development, and deployment.   • Developed state-of-art websites and web applications that leverage cutting edge technologies such as Serverless and Component-Based Software Engineering  • Worked on machine learning models to improve digital marketing  • Used frameworks such as React and jQuery to develop robust web front ends  • Developed middleware and microservices to integrate cloud platforms Software Developer and Marketing Automation Expert Tezro Solutions - Brooklyn, NY 2014 to 2018 Worked in core web engineering capacity  • Developed web applications using React, Node and Python  • Developed Hybrid mobile applications  • Used J2EE to develop backend of an online conferencing platform  • Implemented marketing automation (HubSpot) and built custom integrations Software Developer LokalMotion - Highlands Ranch, CO 2012 to 2014 LokalMotion is a geo-location based digital marketing platform  • Developed dashboard using Codeigniter, Bootstrap and jQuery  • Developed Android and iOS apps  • Developed black box testing strategies  • Setup tenants on WordPress  • Worked on Twilio and OpenVBX for IVR Software Developer Plumtreegroup - Karachi 2008 to 2011 Developed several web 2.0 websites and web applications  • Actionscript 2.0 development.  • Worked on content management systems such as Drupal and WordPress.  • Developed a face recognition system using Python. Education Master's in Information Systems Wilmington University - Newark, DE 2018 to 2019 Bachelor's in Computer Science PAF KIET - Karachi 2009 to 2012 Skills Git, Javascript, PHP, Android, MYSQL, NodeJS (6 years), ReactJS (1 year), jQuery (6 years), Jekyll (1 year), JAM Stack (1 year), Java (4 years), Docker (1 year), Serverless (AWS Lambda, Google Cloud Functions), WordPress (3 years), HubSpot (4 years), Marketing Automation (4 years), Bootstrap (1 year) Links https://github.com/tezrosolutions Certifications/Licenses Training for Certified Ethical Hacker 2016 to Present Certificate in Volunteer Computing 2013 to Present Data Science (First Module) 2019 Learned data science basics to complete the first module at Thinkful in Philadelphia. Assessments Search Engine Optimization — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xpyxrsmwksp3sdlv Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.