Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer Louisville, KY I'm a Creative Web Developer that strives to find the best possible solution for the task at hand. I  really enjoy building and breaking things down. I believe in surrounding myself with like minded  people that will bring the best out of me, while also helping and learning from one another. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Bisnow - Louisville, KY January 2019 to Present Senior Developer Interactive Services January 2016 to Present • Develop e-learning courses on a clients need basis.    • Develop and Implement new features on internal e-learning framework.    • Work directly with clients to help trouble shoot issues.    • Create internal tools to help with productivity and/or workflows.    Skills Used: HTML, CSS, JavaScript (Vue, React, Angular, Pixi JS), Gulp, Bootstrap, PHP  (Laravel), MySQL, MongoDB, Postgres Wordpress, Git Developer Consultant Pace School Network August 2016 to August 2017 Helped lead the creation of a new Flexible scheduling web app used in the school system.    Skills Used: PHP (Laravel), HTML, CSS, JavaScript, MySQL, Bootstrap, Gulp, Git Web Developer SwiftTrip (Altour) - Louisville, KY June 2012 to January 2016 • Design, develop, and implement online travel booking engines.    • Develop new features for online booking engine.    • Support marketing team with internal tools and collateral.    Skills Used: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP (Code Igniter, Laravel), MySQL, Bootstrap,  Wordpress, Joomla, Git, SVN Web Developer West IP Communications - Louisville, KY June 2010 to June 2012 • Responsible for creating and maintaining corporate website.    • Create Intranet portal for marketing collateral.    • Create and maintain small marketing micro-niche sites.    Skills Used: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Wordpress Education Bachelors of Science in Web Design and Development Full Sail University - Winter Park, FL 2008 to 2010 Skills CSS (8 years), HTML (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), BOOTSTRAP (7 years), Git (7 years), Vue (2 years), Laravel (PHP) (4 years), React (2 years) Links http://michael-wegrzyn.com Additional Information Technical Skills    HTML, CSS (Sass), JavaScript (React, Vue), Node JS, PHP (Laravel), MySQL, MongoDB,  Bootstrap, Gulp, Wordpress, Git