Sr. Software Developer Sr.<span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Software Developer - Procode Softech Private Limited • 4 and half years of total IT Experience.  • Good Knowledge and Hands on experience on core PHP and Codeigniter.  • Hands on experience in MySQL, javaScript and JQuery.  • Actively involved in requirements gathering with Exam section people.  • Analyzed the requirements to identify the rules and converted them into functional/technical requirement specifications.  • Conducted analysis meetings to define Legacy process and Mapping rules to understand legacy process and define data conversion rules.  • Prepared Technical specifications and Mapping documents based on Functional specifications.  • Actively involved in planning and organizing data related activities, including legacy data identification, data mapping, data validation and maintenance processes.  • Involved in workshops with functional users, to determine the data types and naming conventions.  • Playing key role in designing and implementing Database.  • Developed processes to meet the goal of 100% clean data in an environment of zero tolerance for duplicate records.  • Implementation of College registration and send username and password to all college Principal's mobile number.  • Development of components including student enrollment, student exam registration, receipt generation and payment using challan, SBI icollect or ICICI payment gateway.  • Prepare User Reference Manuals, User Operational Guides  • Generating reports like paper counts per college and per subject to know the number of papers has to print and helps the exam section people to distribute the papers.  • Generating SEFs and Nominal rolls using fpdf plug-in. Strong Analytical, Interpersonal, Programming and Problem solving skills.  • Have experience in working more than one project simultaneously. Work Experience Sr. Software Developer Procode Softech Private Limited November 2016 to Present Software Developer MyTheater Smart App Solutions Private Limited May 2016 to November 2016 Projects: Projects included creating new database driven websites, maintaining and enhancing the websites developed by the MT. Software Developer Andhra University Computer Centre January 2014 to May 2016 Projects: Projects included creating new database driven websites, maintaining and enhancing the websites developed by the Computer Centre.  All projects mentioned below involved extensive client interaction including site visits for requirements gathering, system analysis and design, developing the functional specifications,  intermediate product demos, client approvals and providing phone support customer problems Education M.Tech in Computer Science and Systems Engineering Andhra University - Visakhapatnam, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages/Coding: HTML, PHP, CSS, Ajax, JSON  Database: MySQL, Oracle  Frameworks: Material Design, Bootstrap 3.0, Codeigniter  Operating System: Microsoft Windows, Ubuntu 16.04  Scripting Languages: JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS  IDE's: NetBeans and Eclipse    ACADAMICS