Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Senior Software Engineer - Aculocity Deerfield, IL Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Aculocity - Highland Park, IL March 2013 to Present Lead developer and architect of Autocar's user profile user sign up. Designed, wireframed, prototyped  and developed which currently signs up thousands of Autocar's customers all over the US. Angular 8, REST, Web API    Researched, presented and got sign-off to integrate Here Maps into the Autocar Portal to make location  usage a better experience for the users. Created a shared Angular component. Angular, Here Maps API    Lead developer on upgrading all Portal applications to have the same look and feel. Created a CDN  version 2 with better UX styles and patterns, removed style bloat and integrated it across all  applications. Angular, JavaScript, jQuery, Auth0, Sass, NPM    Leader developer and architect on re-developing Autocar's customer care system with single sign-on integration. MVC, Web API, Angular, Typescript, Auth0, EF, Bootstrap, Bower, Unit testing    Lead developer on linking Autocar's customer care system with their warranty system and automating  the creation of warranty claims through the ticketing system as well as creating a system to validate the claims once created. C#, ASP.NET Webforms, ADO.NET, SQL    Team lead with 3 developers to migrate an Access DB and create Autocar's customer parts pricing and quote system where complex algorithms were created to calculate quotes. C#, ASP.NET MVC, EF, SQL  Designed and developed Autocar's real-time truck assembly line POC prototype using historical data and presented to executives which got approved. Mendix, Adobe XD, SQL Senior Application Specialist Pam Golding - Cape Town, Western Cape July 2011 to February 2014 South Africa  Head developer on both front and backend systems which included web services, databases, reporting and lots of coding. 3rd level support and dev ops. C#, ASP.NET Webforms, WCF RIA, Silverlight, SQL, MVVM IT Developer Private Property - Durban, KwaZulu-Natal June 2010 to July 2011 South Africa  Part of the backend team working mostly on development projects and some maintenance. C#, ASP.NET  MVC / Webforms, Web services Web Developer Prop Data - Durban, KwaZulu-Natal September 2009 to June 2010 South Africa  Designed, developed and maintained multiple real estate and ecommerce websites all over South Africa.  Python, Django, MySQL, PostgreSQL Education B.COM in Computer Science Canterbury University - Christchurch, Canterbury 2000 to 2004 Skills Ajax, Asp, Css, Iis, Asp.net, Web services, Api, C#, Delphi, Django, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Silverlight, Wcf, Php, Python, Svn, Angularjs Additional Information Skills  C#, ASP.NET MVC / Webforms, Django, Python, CSS, HTML, ADO.NET, SQL, PostgreSQL,  JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, IIS, Tortoise SVN  +- 10 years    Octopus, Git, Git Flow, SASS, Gulp, Grunt, NPM, AngularJs, Angular 2, Mockplus, Web API,  Bootstrap, LINQ, Agile (SCRUM), TFS, Less, Web services  +- 5 years    PHP, Adobe XD, Backbone.Js, Delphi, Java, WCF RIA, Silverlight, MongoDB, Unit-testing,  Azure, Django Rest  +- 3 years