Sr. Software Engineer Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Sr. Software Engineer - Ultimate Software Weston, FL • 8 years of experience in IT industry developing software applications involving Client/Server, Windows and Web based application.  • Strong working knowledge of Object Oriented Programming techniques.  • Experience in developing applications using MVC and Knowledge on architecture.  • Expertise in designing and developing applications using ASP.NET, MVC, ADO.NET,  Enterprise Library, LINQ, C#.NET, SQL SERVER 2008/2012, Web services, SOAP, HTML 4/5, XML, JSON, CSS, Java Script ,Angular JS 2.0, AJAX, Web Forms, Microsoft Azure.  • Expertise in using Language Integrated Query (LINQ) for data manipulation.  • Good Knowledge in using WCF, SOAP, Restful Services.  • Working knowledge of REST services and hands on experience in creating and consuming REST services.  • Worked with SQL Server and Oracle databases.  • Experience with integration services OAUTH, OAUTH2, and OData V4 Endpoints.  • Knowledge in writing stored procedures, triggers, views using SQL SERVER 2008 and 2012.  • Creative in Designing the UI that is appealing and also gives user friendly experience.  • Experience in Creation of Web User Controls and Web Custom Controls.  • Experience in Entity Frame Work to perform the CRUD operations in the Database.  • Hands on experience in debugging and fixing the bugs and also very good with support and maintenance.  • Hand's on Experience in Unit Testing using Microsoft unit testing Framework and NUnit Test Frameworks  • Extensive programming skills in Business Rules management tool like IrAuthor InRule.  • Experience in Writing/Organizing and Maintaining Automated Unit Testing cases, API Testing and Integration testing using C#. Experience using Microsoft Visual SourceSafe, Team Foundation Server, SVN for Version Control.  • Proficiency at various level of application development i.e. on requirement analysis, analysis and design, implementation and documentation.  • Experienced in using various methodologies in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) like SCRUM/AGILE, Waterfall.  • Excellent interpersonal skills and leadership abilities. Fast learner with excellent analytical skills. Work Experience Sr. Software Engineer Ultimate Software - Weston, FL January 2018 to Present HR & Payroll Tax Management: Ultimate Software's UltiPro is a cloud-based human capital management (HCM) solution designed to help organizations manage their HR, payroll, and talent needs. UltiPro is HR and Payroll application that provides various services for client in terms of Employee management and paying employee and paying their tax on time.    Responsibilities:  • Effectively involved in interacting with business analysts, other developers and management to develop the application.  • Extensively Worked on Agile and Scrum/Kanban methodology.  • Created Microservice (Garnishments project) with MVC architecture, Domain Driven Design (DDD) and Repository design pattern using C#.Net, TypeScript, Angular 2.0 andASP.NET WebAPI.  • Extensively worked with RabbitMQ to communicate with multiple Micro services in Ultipro Tax Engine (UTE) eco system.  • Used UML for the Web application SDLC, this included creating several types of diagrams such asuse case, activity, sequence, class and deployment diagrams.  • Experience in continuous integration and delivery, Tool used is TeamCity and Jira for story management.  • Effectively used tools like Postman and Fiddler to test the endpoints and have good experience in testing message subscriber by posting payloads through RabbitMQ.  • HTML5 codming and CSS3 using Bootstrap to build responsive mobile to web layouts. These are layouts that can be used both on web and mobile devices.  • Extensively worked on ADO.NET Entity Framework for developing core data layers for the distributed applications.  • Experience working with MongoDb created Indexes for optimized searches and experience in building quires in Mongo and C# and effectively used tools like Robo Mongo and Studio3T.  • Experience in using Language-Integrated Query (LINQ) (LINQ to SQL, LINQ to objects, LINQ to Entities, and LINQ to XML).  • Wrote SQL queries with Joins on multiple tables, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and Indexes using SQL Server 2008.  • Extensively Used GIT for the source control, Effectively used various source control tools like Git Kraken, Tortoise Git, Effectively used various merge tools like Meld, Tortoise Git etc  • Experience using automated testing tools like NUnit, Fake It Easy mocking framework, Selenium, Jasmine.  • Experience writing unit, integration, system integration, end to end system and functional automated tests.  • Participate in discussing involving the application creation and understanding the requirements and provide the back-end functionality for the applications.  • Involved in code review meetings, peer to peer code reviews and team meetings.  • Worked with Agile and Scrum methodology and had good knowledge working with different Design patterns.  • Preparing technical documentation such as system architecture, functional, design documents.  • Attending Daily requirements meetings organized by Business Analyst with users to gather new requirements and discuss on ongoing Epics.    Environment: Visual Studio 2015, .Net Framework 4.6, C#.Net 6.0, ASP.NET, AP.NET WEB API, ADO.NET, Entity Framework, RabbitMQ, MongoDB, HTML, CSS, SSIS, SSRS, JavaScript, Angular, AJAX, XML, Bootstrap, Windows Services, WCF, Windows Applications, Task Parallel Library (TPL), JQuery, SQL Server 2008/2012, Grunt, Brower, Ruby, Python, PHP, TypeScript, RxJs, Crystal Reports, Windows 10. Software Developer Experian Consumer Services - Orange County, CA, US January 2017 to December 2017 Credit Expert is part of a family of online consumer credit reporting sites belonging to ConsumerInfo.com, Inc., an Experian company (ConsumerInfo). ConsumerInfo give consumers quick, easy, and inexpensive access to their credit reports. It is now the leading provider of online consumer credit reports, credit scores, credit monitoring, and other credit-related information. As part of the Experian family, it continues to grow its membership base and develop innovative products to help consumers better understand their credit.    Responsibilities:  • Design, develop and maintain B2C Enterprise level Razor MVC Web application in .Net Framework 4.0 on n -Tier infrastructure.  • Critical role involves in lead developing framework libraries for Google Search Appliance (GSC) to incorporate with Experian products and provide site wide search functionality to the end consumer.  • Provide innovative ideas with new technology features and implementing Proof of Concepts (POC's) for applications.  • Developed two-step authentication for security and PCI compliance for CreditExpert site.  • Implemented HTML helpers to interact application with SDL Tridion broker database and custom view engine to render razor views incorporated with Ajax, JQuery and applied CSS.  • Incorporated Glimpse framework part of the CreditExpert site for analytics on performance across the site.  • Worked on the OAuth 2.0 for accessing the cloud storages like Box, one drive, Google Drive, Drop box  • Used Dependency injection(IOC) for removing dependencies between business layers and binding them to jQuery grids using JQuery  • Implemented Credit report page using Angular JS  • Designed and implemented Developer friendly reusable Angular JS. Directives.  • Used Dependency Injection for model binding.  • Implemented end-to-end functionality from browser user agent detection, login, order and queuing messages into MSMQ and processing messages through offline service jobs.  • Migrate legacy applications from .Net 1.1, .Net 3.5 to .Net 4.5 Framework  • Provided support for existing Classic ASP web pages written using VBScript and JavaScript.  • Collaborate with Technology team members to design and develop middle and backend systems.  • Analyze requirements, determine technical approach and design, determine efforts and provide deliverable dates for project and enhancement requests.  • Created Database in Sql Server and used Entity Framework for mapping.  • Assist and guide junior developers and QA through the Project developments    Environment: Visual Studio 2003/2008/2015, .NET Framework 1.1/3.5/4.0/4.5, C# .NET, REST WEB API, MVC5, WCF,VB Script, OAUTH ,Design patterns, .Net Remoting, Google Search Appliance (GSA), AJAX, JQuery, CSS, JavaScript, LINQ, XML, JSON, SOAP, WSDL, SQL Server 2012, Entity Framework, Dimensions, TFS 2015, IIS 7.5, Serena Team Track, Pivotal Tracker, Windows 8. .NET Developer Nabors Industries Inc - Houston, TX October 2015 to December 2016 Nabors Industries Is an Oil Drilling company and it have oil rigs around worldwide. This project majorly includes maintaining the web pages and creating web pages, controlling and creating of Hyperlinks to maintain company production details and inventory, employee's time sheets.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement Gathering, Design, Development, Testing and Production Support  • Expertise in working Agile, leading SCRUM meetings and handling Story Boards / Sprint Boards.  • Used latest technologies like knockout.js, Restful Services using ASP.Net Web API, MVC4 for concise and powerful way of linking data to the UI.  • Developed efficient cross component Database systems in multiple environments on SQL Server and Oracle across Data Centers.  • Used HTML5, CSS for branding purposes and for maintaining consistency across the site.  • Extensively used LINQ to Objects and LINQ to XML.  • Used Boot Strap to create a responsive website that fits all users and devices from desktop to tablet and mobile phone.  • Participated in website layout design using Bootstrap.  • Used Entity Framework5.0 for some part of applications in retrieving all business objects from Database and developed business logic layer using C#.  • Extensively used basichttp, nettcp, http bindings for different endpoints in WCF services.  • Developed Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions and Triggers using Transact SQL.  • Involved in Unit Testing Using Moq or Ninject (Dependency Injection) and Nunit.  • Responsible to deliver the give modules without slipping the deadlines and without exceeding the estimated effort.  • Designed Application and Database Design and made changes according to the requirements.    Environment: .Net Framework 4.5,Visual Studio 2012, ASP.NET MVC4, C#.NET, SOAP,REST, XML, XSL, XSLT,WIX, SQL,TOAD Oracle, T-SQL, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, Telerik Controls, TFS(Team Foundation Server), Windows 7,Entity Framework(EF). Associate Software Developer Global Logic Pvt Ltd May 2012 to June 2015 Title: Medlink IX  Medline IX is a flexible HL7 interface engine that allows the Electronic Health Record (EHR) to create lab orders and receive lab results from a Clinical laboratory, Pathology laboratory as well as a Radiology Center. The interface engine also allows for the EHR to export billing data to other Practice Management systems.    Responsibilities:  • Developed and tested 4 modules in Med link IX like Admin, Patient Registration, Scheduling of physicians and patient's modules.  • Created the webpages using HTML, CSS, and ASP.NET Web pages.  • Developed UI page and settings using JS objects, Jquery.  • Implemented various JavaScript/JQuery effects on the pages.  • Implemented LINQ for object mapping in Data Access Layer (DAL).  • Implemented WCF Web Services in the application to retrieve Reports information from other Diagnostic labs  • Designing the Reports for MedlinkIX which includes Manifest, Cumulative Reports, Requisition Report and Results Report received from a Third Party Tool Mirth Administrator  • Provided maintenance and support for the application.  • Handled task allocation and coordination with team in absence of Lead and submitted the deliverables on time.    Environment: ASP .NET, C#, LINQ, WCF Web Services, HTML4, JQuery, CSS.    Labtest Portal  LabTestPortal is the future for affordable, safe and secure personal healthcare management. Consumers no longer have to search for where to get a blood test with 2,500 blood testing locations. Clinical Lab testing represents 70% of the diagnostic information required to manage one's health. Customers will be able to track their lab results through blood screening tests to monitor their health more closely. It will provide a free Personal Health Record (PHR) where we can manage your blood test results as well as Prescriptions, Healthcare and Health Insurance documents. With the lab locator it will figure out where to get a blood test performed.    Responsibilities:  • Involved through the Database Design.  • Created the webpages using HTML, CSS, and ASP.NET Web pages.  • Implemented LINQ for object mapping in Data Access Layer (DAL).  • Implement Multiple Pages and executed extensive logic in front end logic using JQuery and JavaScript.  • Implemented the complete project in customized JavaScript MVC Architecture.  • Worked on implementing Ajax Calls for Dynamic Content Loading.  • Business objects were programmed in C#.    Environment: ASP .NET, C#, ADO.NET, SQL, HTML4, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS. Jr. Software Developer Prime KI Software Solutions Pvt. Ltd July 2011 to May 2012 We developed a School Organization Application, which is a windows application that helps to manage and organize all the activities pertaining to an education system. Major modules are Students, Staff and Admissions.    Responsibilities:  • Designed the UI for some modules of the application using ASP.NET controls.  • Involved in designing and developing the GUI for the user interface with various controls that include Grid View, Data List, Textbox, Calendar, List Controls, Dropdown, Validation Controls etc.  • Develop Business logic layer by implementing Object Oriented Programming languages (OOPS) CONCEPTS abstraction, encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism in C#.  • Documented the code for some of the modules  • Provided technical support  • Involved in documenting the user manual  • Handled many production issues and enhanced the User interface as per the requirements    Environment: .NET Framework 3.0, C#, SQL SERVER 2005, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ASP.NET, XML. Education Bachelor's Skills .net, Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, Api, C#, C++, Html, .net framework 2.0, Wcf, Scripting, Xml, Ajax, Asp, Css, Dhtml, Iis, Asp.net, Web services, Ado, Database