Princeton, USA - Senior Developer Princeton, USA - Senior <span class="hl">Developer</span> Atlassian Expert | Jira, Confluence Developer Plano, TX ? Over 8 years of experience as a Software Developer in Analysis, Design, Development,  Testing and Implementation of applications on Java/J2EE technologies.  ? Over 4 years of experience as a Senior Atlassian Plugin Developer in leading a team of 5,  executing sprint planning, conducting daily stand-up, Retrospective meeting, breaking  requirement in Stories, Epics, Component using Jira and capturing technical design,  discussion and architecture in Confluence.  ? Developing plugins for Jira, Confluence, Bitbucket, Jira Service Desk.  ? Configuring and designing Jira Workflow, Jira Post Functions, Jira Conditions, writing  Groovy Script to run using Script Runner, customizing Email Template, creating Jira and  Confluence theme, helping in branding and customization Jira, Confluence and all other  Atlassian tools. Developing Confluence Cloud Plugin using Spring Boot Microservices.  ? Experience in developing Web based applications in J2EE - including Spring, Hibernate,  Struts, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JPA, JavaBeans, Spring Boot, Web Services.  ? Experience in designing User Experience (UX) and development of visually appealing  User Interactive (UI) Web Pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, and  AngularJS  ? Working experience in developing applications using frameworks like - Struts, Spring  framework, Spring Boot, Hibernate ORM.  ? Working experience in producing/consuming web services - REST, SOAP. Creating API  documents using Swagger. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Princeton, USA - Senior Developer Addteq Inc January 2016 to Present EXCELLENTABLE  ? Plugin for Server and Cloud Confluence    ? This is a Confluence app which brings Excel capabilities within Confluence. It has almost  all the features which a spreadsheet software may offer with few additional features like import a workbook and export your Confluence Excellentable data as PDF, Excel, HTML or CSV files. User can also share a Excellentable with other use and apply column filter  and global filter to show only intended rows. It also provides a way to see the edit history of a workbook and restore to one of the previous versions.  ? Added multiple features to the plugin, few of them are: REST APIs, Versioning, Share  Excellentable with other users, Import and Export.  ? The plugin, at the core, is using Webwork framework to create actions, Jersey to write  REST APIs and Active Objects for data persistence. The plugin have few listeners to keep an eye on Confluence page/template created and updated events which are being used  by the app. It also makes use of Velocity, Soy for templating, jQuery, CSS to make the  interface usable and responsive and other few libraries in order to fulfill the requirement.  ? Skills used: Java, Servlet, Struts, Active Object (ORM), Spring IOC, XML, Spring Boot, Spring Scanner, JQuery, Apache Tomcat, MySql, Apache POI, SpreadJS, Mockito, Velocity  Template, Soy Template, Swagger  EXTENDED SEARCH PLUGIN  ? Confluence Plugin  ? This app enhance the Confluence search by adding external content (third party  application) within Confluence and redirecting user to see the whole content if user clicks on the search result. The app also provides synonym search which brings search results  based on the synonyms to the original search term. The synonyms can be defined in the  admin screen of the app.  ? Created requirement document and convert into stories. Created mock-ups to depict how  the plugin admin screen will appear.  ? Created a module to update Lucene search index every time a user creates/updates a page. Created admin screen where user can define synonyms and persist them using  active object. Exposed a REST API which can be consumed by third party application to send the data to be indexed at Confluence level by the plugin by introducing custom  content type.  ? Enhanced the Confluence search abilities to detect the external content being added and show in the search result. Wrote a scheduler which cleans the external content after its  expiry date.  SEARCH ANALYTICS PLUGIN  ? Confluence plugin  ? A search analytics plugin which captures all the search being done in a Confluence  instance and creates reports. The global report can be seen by Confluence admin only and there's another report which is generated on Space level which can be seen as per  permission set on the admin screen provided by the app.  ? Created requirement document and convert into stories. Created mockups to depict how  the search report will appear to the customer.    ? Created a macro which shows search report on every space based on the searches done  by users under the given space and make it visible to only space admin. Created an admin screen in the plugin where the space admin can be configured.  RESPONSIBILITIES  ? Mentoring new joinee and guide them to bring up to the sprint's velocity.  ? Involved in all the phases of the project development - requirements gathering, analysis, design, development, coding and testing.  ? Implemented major concepts of the application using Core Java, J2EE, Servlets, Velocity, Soy Template, Thymeleaf, JDBC, MVC, Spring Framework, Active Objects, Java Beans,  XML.  ? Used J2EE and Enterprise design patterns like MVC, front controller, business delegate, data access object, value object etc.  ? Implemented REST based microservices using Spring framework, Jersey API. Used REST  Client and POSTMAN and CURL to test the services.  ? Developed REST controllers using Spring Data REST to serve the UI with required JSON  data.  ? Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Spring, Hibernate ORM, SOAP, REST, Microservices, Postman, Spring Data REST, DAO, Maven, Jenkins, Oracle, JUnit, GitHub,  PL/SQL, SQL, Tomcat Application Server. Senior Developer Addteq Inc - Pune, Maharashtra October 2013 to January 2016 OFFICE ADMIN  ? Confluence Plugin  ? A Confluence plugin which allows users to add a macro with the image of floor plan and tag employees and physical resources into the image. It allows user to add custom fields  under user's profile page and enhance the people search in the Confluence.  ? This plugin also have avatar feature where user can add his/her profile photo and can be  seen across applications as long as those applications support avatar configuration.  Changing profile photo in Confluence also change the profile photo of all the configured  applications.  ? My responsibilities include understanding requirements, developing features from scratch, supporting and fixing bugs.  ? Developed two macros which allows user to add floor plan and flow diagram and tag the entities in the diagrams.  ? Developed custom user profile page, enhanced the Confluence People search and also created avatar features which make use of Jersey to write REST web services, Active  Objects to persist data. Wrote jUnit code to unit test the modules.  FILE BROWSER  ? Confluence plugin  ? A Confluence plugin which allows user to insert a macro in Confluence page with the SMB path and the macro shows all the directory on the given path within Confluence.  User can view, delete, create directory/file throw this plugin.    ? My role in this involves, understand the requirement and develop the features.  ? Created UI to show the directory tree in the Confluence using jQuery and Velocity  template. Wrote Java API which takes the SMB path as input and iterated throw  directories to create tree of model objects and send response using REST API.  ? Wrote REST api to serve the response. Developed jUnit code to unit test the modules.  REMEDY JIRA CONNECTOR  ? Jira Plugin  ? The requirement for this project was to integrate JIRA with another well known issue  tracking tool Remedy in a fashion where every single issue created at Remedy will be  reported and synced with JIRA and vice-versa.  ? Developed SOAP client to make call the Remedy and bring newly created tickets on the other end and create similar tickets in the JIRA and any failed transaction will be captured  at JIRA to be attempted later in sometime.  ? Wrote a scheduler which looks for the failed transactions in the database and re-attempt  to complete the transaction and mark it completed.  ? Used XWORK to write action class, Active Object to persist data and developer Scheduler  module for scheduled jobs.  INTELLIJ IDEA ALERT PLUGIN  ? IntelliJ Idea and Jira Plugin integration  ? Create an IntelliJ IDEA plugin which make use of git branches in the IDE and brings latest  updates from JIRA and shows natively in the IntelliJ Idea to keep the developer in the context and get JIRA updates without changing the tool.  ? Created an IntelliJ IDEA module using the same IDE and wrote a listener which keep JIRA  in check for any new updates available in the comment section.  ? Created a configuration screen where developer can configure their JIRA instance details  such as JIRA URL, username, password.  MISCELLANEOUS PLUGIN  ? Jira Plugin, Groovy Scripts, Jira Workflow Post functions, Creating Jira Workflow  ? Creating Post functions to automate issue transitions and get desired result.  ? Created automated Jira issue creation where based on resolution on one issue  create/close other issues and wrote various such Jira automation scripts.  ? The requirement was converting all the groovy scripts into different modules under a single JIRA plugin which replaces the need of upgrading groovy scripts every time JIRA  gets an upgrade and also safe JIRA from the groovy's potential of modifying JIRA home  directory.  ? Wrote various kind of JIRA workflow listeners to replace groovy scripts and create JIRA  plugin modules.  ? Code review and discussing approach with team and help them contribute in the project.  ? Skills used: Java, Servlet, Struts, Active Object (ORM), Spring IOC, XML, Spring Boot, Spring Scanner, JQuery, Apache Tomcat, MySql, Velocity Template, Soy Template  RESPONSIBILITIES    ? Involved in all the phases of the project development - requirements gathering, analysis, design, development, coding and testing.  ? Implemented major concepts of the application using Groovy Script, Core Java, JSP, Servlets, Velocity, Soy Template, Thymeleaf, JDBC, MVC, Active Objects, Java Beans,  XML, HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, Backbone JS  ? Worked, implemented, and maintained an MVC and DAO architecture utilizing the Spring  framework.  ? Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Spring, Hibernate ORM, SOAP, REST, Microservices, Postman, Spring Data REST, DAO, Maven, Jira, Bitbucket, Bamboo,  Confluence, Agile, Configuring jira Post function Software Engineer Fiserv - Pune, Maharashtra September 2012 to September 2013 Actively participated in different phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  includes requirement gathering, creating use-case diagrams, class diagrams.  ? Took part in the design and development of various components using Core Java and Oracle.  ? Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications.  ? Writing java code and respective JUnit for all types of bugs and enhancements to the existing product.  ? Writing javascript changes as per the requirement.  ? Worked on stored procedures, PL/SQL and SQL queries.  ? Supported the application during deployment and production phases Environment: Core  Java, Oracle, HTML, XHTML, CSS, JSP, and Apache Tomcat. Software Engineer QLC - Pune, Maharashtra December 2010 to September 2012 Wrote Professional Networking application named "GoSoCio" in JAVA that helps  employee to connect with their colleagues, share skills, create group, discussion and enable to chat in the same organization.  ? Responsible for architecture, design, and development tasks supporting the implementation of the above mentioned application.  ? Wrote Document Management Application in JAVA that is included with the "GoSoCio"  enables employee to manage files and folders on the fly and can share with colleagues.  ? Responsible for writing API to upload, delete the document along with versioning, sharing, searching the document.  ? Wrote API to add, delete, edit folder and showing directory using JSON, jQuery.  ? Environment: Java 5, Tomcat 6, MVC framework, MySQL, NetBeans, Struts, Spring, Jackrabbit, JCR.20, JSP 2.0, XML, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON. Education Master Of Computer Application in Computer Application University Of Pune - Pune, Maharashtra June 2008 to June 2011