Android developer Android <span class="hl">developer</span> Android developer - Vance And Hines Irvine, CA Work Experience Android developer Vance And Hines May 2017 to Present Design and develop core features of Fuelpak FP3 and Code:READ Android applications  ? Design and implement user interface and user experience for Android applications  ? Deploy Android alpha, beta and release versions of application to Google Play  ? Integration of In App purchase and Stripe payment system  ? Participate in server side database and REST API design Android developer RadioFlag Inc August 2013 to May 2017 Leading roles in RadioFlag Android application design, development, release and deployment.  ? Produced Android based user interfaces and customized layouts to replace the existing  UI for RadioFlag phones and tablets Android applications  ? Integration of RadioFlag internal RESTful API web services with Android application  ? Integration and modification of Android mediaplayer with non-native codec decoders  ? Designed and developed RadioFlag Android music stream player components Software engineer Wincor-Nixdorf Retail And Banking Systems - Shanghai, CN August 2009 to June 2011 Developed middleware test suite replacements for self-service machine application  ? Developed configuration tools for self-service machine application information validation  and reports generation  ? Developed visualized tools for configuring self-service machine and its operating panel  ? Developed and maintained self-service framework test suite    2 Education Master of Science in Software Engineering in Data Mining and Machine University of Delaware - Newark, DE August 2011 to June 2013 Bachelor of Science in Software Engineering in Software Engineering Tongji University - Shanghai, CN September 2005 to June 2009 Skills Android, Design patterns, Mvp, Mvvm, Api, Git, Gradle, Json, Database, Relational database, Sql, Integration testing, Integration, Bluetooth, Retrofit, Java, Framework, Android Sdk Additional Information Skills  Android development, RxJava, RxAndroid, MVP/MVVM, Material design, Android Jetpack, Git,  RESTful API design and JSON, Dagger2, Room, Retrofit, Kotlin, SQL (and relational database  design), Unit and integration testing, Gradle, Design patterns, Multithreading, Bluetooth Classic and  Low Energy integration, In App purchase, Stripe payment integration