Senior Developer Senior <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Developer - AgileThought Work Experience Senior Developer AgileThought February 2018 to Present Increased team velocity through the implementation of Azure Pipeline CI / CD.  Effectively increasing teams sprint capacity.  ? Worked with team creating user flows and building out user interfaces.  ? Provided recommendations for best practices and worked with the team towards implementing them. VP / Senior Application Developer Listing Power Tools / HomeValue.com / Robert Palmer Companies, Inc - Maitland, FL October 2015 to December 2017 Maitland, FL    ? Created the technical foundation for a set of AdTech products for the real estate industry  that collectively generated over $2 Million in revenue  ? Built mission critical internal API's in Node.js that streamlined web to print collateral  operations. Used TDD approach towards the development of those API's.  ? Provided oversight and took a leading role in the successful transition from on premise  servers to AWS Cloud. Took a leadership role in decomposing applications built on outdated technology and rebuilt them with Node.js on serverless architecture.  ? Reduced human error in the engineering department by putting system policies, protocols and procedures in place; streamlining development operations.  ? Managed day to day technical operations and lead team ceremonies and retrospectives.  ? Built proprietary automation tools in Node.js increasing company overall efficiency Software Engineer Neoreach - Orlando, FL 2013 to 2015 Worked with the executive team on building out Social Media Influencer platform. The  technologies the platform was built with were Node.js and Angular.js.  ? Built proprietary social-bot crawlers that extracted data points for internal analyses and stored them in redshift data warehouse. Software Engineer Rank Executives - Orlando, FL 2009 to 2013 Nurtured client relationships and scoped projects for clients  ? Participated in daily scrum standups and other ceremonies  ? Built websites in WordPress / HTML / CSS / PHP / MYSQL Education Bachelor's Skills Api, Firebase, Git, Svn, Dbms, Mysql, Sql, Sqlite, Linux, Knockout, Devops, jquery, Jira, Version control, Aws certified, CSS, PHP, Javascript, HTML 5 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming: Nodejs, Angular, Knockout.js, jQuery    DBMS: MySQL, MYSQL Aurora, SQLite, Mongo DB, MS SQL    Environments: AWS, (AWS Certified), Firebase, Ubuntu, AWS Linux    Version Control: GIT, SVN    Infrastructure as Code / Devops: Cloudformation, Ansible    Project Management: Jira, Github    CI: CircleCI, Travis CI    Testing Software: Casper, Jasmine, Protractor,    API: Postman, Swagger