Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Rocklin, CA https://www.linkedin.com/in/aleksey-segal-5b639934/ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer MarketAxess November 2015 to July 2019 • Developed and maintained reporting services of trading system and multiple applications with variety of data for trades, sales people and other clients. Includes Java as server side and AngularJS for front end.  • Developed store procedures in Oracle environment to support SQL coverage for the apps.  • Used REST API and home grown LWC framework that resembles SPRING  • Implemented JUnit tests for new projects and POC.  • Developed and modified variety flat file reports to support client needs.  • Support for legacy applications (java, jQuery, jsp, javascript etc.)  • Resolving production issues, fixing bugs, and other regular maintenance jobs for applications.  • Conversion of old reports written in Perl into Java based applications integrated with front end component.  • Developed Python scripts to execute variety of Java jobs.  • Agile team work from end of 2018 AT&T October 2014 to November 2015 • Developed front end application using AngularJS and Bootstrap for a messaging system  • Developed variety small-mid Java application to match immediate needs within the team  • Developed Java applications with integration to HDFS  • Developed Hadoop big data sourcing applications  • Maintained shell script applications to support data sourcing applications.  • Issue tracking and solutions to cross platform defect tickets from variety of teams related to big data projects. Citi March 2013 to October 2014 • Developed a client portal for private equity division  • Created Back end Java EE interactive data mapping utility  • Developed Front end web design (JavaScript /jQuery/HTML/CSS) of drill down investment reporting interface  • Developed SQL queries and store procedures for data store components  • Coordinated system integration testing J.P Morgan & Chase September 2012 to January 2013 • Implemented RSS Feed system for Investment Management department  • Worked with different teams in the US and the UK to map the system from source to target  • Built Informatica ETL workflow Lab Technician TOURO COLLEGE - New York, NY October 2010 to March 2012 • Maintained of over 150 networked computers across 6 computer facilities    • Provided technical support and troubleshooting to students and staff members    • Provided tutoring in programming, database, network and hardware Education Master of Science in Information Systems in Database Systems Touro College - New York, NY September 2011 to September 2013 programming Professional training in FDM Academy March 2012 to September 2012 Bachelors of Science in software development Touro College - New York, NY September 2007 to June 2010 Computer Science Touro College Excellence Skills Eclipse, Java, jquery, Jsp, Api, Hdfs, Hive, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Json, Python, Scripting, Xml, Database, Sql server, Sql server 2008, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Sql Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/aleksey-segal-5b639934 Additional Information PROFESSIONAL SKILLS:    • Java, JavaEE, JUnit, Eclipse, REST API, ArgoUML, JSP  • AngularJS, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, HTML, JSON, XML, Bootstrap  • Oracle Database SQL Expert certified    • Solid knowledge of Oracle 10g, SQL Server 2008 platform  • HDFS, Hive, Unix, Linux, Shell scripting, Ant Build, Python