UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - Staples Jacksonville, FL • Having 5+ years of experience as a Front-End web developer in developing and designing user experiences of Internet/Intranet applications using HTML4.0/5, CSS3, XHTML, XML, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, JSON, AJAX, Angular.js and Angular2.0, Angular 4.0, Angular 5.0, rxjs/Rx React.js and Node.js.  • Experience in all phases of software development life cycle.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Programming using Java and J2EE related technologies.  • Strong web development skills with web 2.0 framework, JSP & MVC and in Classic JSP, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, DHTML, Servlet, XHTML, XSLT, XSL, VSS, Eclipse, Tomcat 5.0,6.0 and UNIX, Linux, Windows XP, 2000, 2003 and NT.  • Extensive experience on implementing the AJAX features using frameworks like Angular, JQuery and EXTJS.  • Worked on AJAX features and enhancement in various projects using JQuery, React (for JavaScript event handling) and ExtJS framework (for AJAX communication)  • Good knowledge in Twitter Bootstrap and Responsive Design.  • Experienced with implementing distinctive features of Bootstrap and CSS media Queries for Responsive Web Design (RWD).  • Used Typescript in Angular 2.0 reformation, by using the System JS we convert the Typescript files to JavaScript files, as a default extension with the help of reference libraries.  • Experience working on Polymer (more specially Shadow DOM) it provides to compose encapsulated JS, CSS and HTML.  • Hands on experience with databases including Oracle, PL/SQL and MySql involving stored procedures, triggers, functions, indexes, and packages.  • Working knowledge on XML Technologies JAXP (DOM and SAX parsers).  • Experience in using the JavaScript frameworks JQUERY, Angular.JS, React.JS, Node.JS and Twitter Bootstrap.  • Used polymers along with the Material Design to improve the visual experience for the users  • Expertise in developing applications using Node.js and React.js for Asynchronous Module Definition (AMD) and Grunt as task manager.  • Experienced with JIRA, AGM for bug tracking and issue tracking and daily stand up to sync up with Team for current sprint status Implementation and Maintenance with extensive experience with agile methodologies.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures and used JDBC for database connectivity with MySQL Server.  • Hands on the tools such as Eclipse, Linux vi editor, etc.  • Worked on various flavors of UNIX operating system like Linux.  • Hands on experience in VPN, Putty, winSCP, etc.  • Hands on experience in project management tools like VSS.  • Programming experience in UNIX Shell Script.  • Strong analytical skills with ability to quickly understand client's business needs.  • Involved in meetings to gather information and requirements from the clients.    Technical Skill Expertise:  Programming Languages C#, JAVA, J2EE, C, C++, Unix Shell Script, perl, python  Web/XML Technologies  HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY, Angular 2.0, Angular 4.0, Angular 5.0, Node JS, EXT JS, D3 JS, React JS, JSON, AJAX, Grunt & Gulp, Spring, Spring Boot, Microservices.    Tools & Utilities Eclipse, winSCP, VSS, AWS, Jenkins  Application/Web Servers BEA WebLogic, IBM WebSphere, JBoss, Tomcat.  Source Control Microsoft VSS Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Developer Staples - Framingham, MA November 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of website using HTML5, SASS, CSS3, Bootstrap, Angular 5.0, Typescript, Node.js and JavaScript.  • Participated highly in requirements gathering, analysis, Conceptual Design and Details.  • Designed animated webpages by importing the @angular/animations which is the latest animation package in Angular 5.0.  • Created Angular 5.0 parent and child components in the application by using the angular-cli command ng g component.  • Extensively used @Ng Module to import different modules, to declare different components, to describe the providers and services that are used to develop the Angular 5.0 application.  • Designed animated pie charts in different webpages using the ngx-charts and D3 charts.  • Worked with the team to develop model form controls by adding the ngModel directive where ever needed in the application.  • Used Ng2AutoComplete for the development of user-friendly auto complete forms in the Angular 5.0 webpages.  • Developed different forms using Angular 5.0 forms by importing the FormsModule from @angular/forms and use the same in the imports array.  • Built the Angular 5.0 forms by importing Forms Module from @angular/core to application module.  • Involved in creating TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 5.0.  • Assisted team to use the CSS preprocessor SASS and implemented the custom stylings for the entire application by creating style.scss as a common stylings file to the whole project.  • Extensively used Bootstrap and Angular 5.0 to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Interacted with java controllers (JQUERY, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems).  • Imported Bootstrap modules such as Accordion, BsDropdown, Collapse, Modal, Progressbar, Tooltip and Popover for the user attractive Angular 5.0 application.  • Used Angular 5.0 to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Application (SPA).  • Implemented a React.js blog application with React, experienced in working with Redux architecture..  • Created SPA for the End User providing route technologies with faster and responsive using React.js Framework.  • Experience in building Custer centric Single Page Applications.  • Designed and developed User friendly web-based interfaces using JSP, React.js, HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript and Custom Tags.  • Developed web pages using Forms, Components, Layouts, Events, Validations, Trees, Grids components, and used GRUNT & GULP as Task runners.  • Created some reusable components for designing interfaces using React.js.  • Developed various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components Implemented test cases and performed unit testing using Jasmine and Karma.  • Used Agile software management (Scrum) that included iterative application development, weekly Sprints, stand up meetings, Followed JIRA for tracking processes and streamlining Agile planning.  • Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) for source code version control.  Environment: Angular 5.0, D3.js, Java, Reactjs, Redux, Handlebars, SharePoint, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, SASS, RxJS, Angular-CLI, Angular Material, Visual Studio, TFS, Agile. Full Stack Developer Charter Communication - St. Louis, MO January 2018 to November 2018 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing and building Financial applications using Angular2, Angular5, HTML5, CSS3, CSS, jQuery, Kendo UI, JSON, AJAX, Mongo DB and Java.  • Developed various objects using Java and HTML and DHTML to maintain well-structured GUI and to interact with Controllers to get data from Oracle database  • Developed the web application using Spring MVC Framework by implementing controller and backend service classes.  • Implemented web components using Angular2 and manipulated JSON values for scheduling, reporting, documents and admin.  • Implemented Spring API for create, read, update and delete operations.  • Implemented REST Microservices using spring boot. Generated Metrics with method level granularity and Persistence using Spring AOP and Spring Actuator.  • Wrote unit test cases using Jasmine for Angular 2 components.  • Developed Page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  • Fixed critical production issues immediately reported by users.  • Developed responsive prototypes for mobile devices and desktops.  • Collaborated with a team of project managers, developers and QA engineers in all stages of development cycle till deployment.  • Maintained entire code in GIT, used UBuild and UDeploy for build and deployment.  Environment: JavaScript, Java, HTML5, MySQL 5.1.x, Resin 3.1.x, ATG, JSP, CSS3 and CMS, Web 2.0, HTML5, Angular2, Spring Framework, Microservices, XML, XSLT DHTML, AJAX and Jquery. Software Engineer Wipro/HP - Chennai, Tamil Nadu April 2014 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • web application for the test results of ALM using Java, JavaScript, Vue, HTML, CSS  • C# for backend and visual studio unit testing framework for unit tests  • Designed, developed, and implemented the automation testing application of NIC cards using Perl and Python.  • Developed the web application using Spring MVC Framework by implementing controller and backend service classes.  • Implemented REST Microservices using spring boot. Generated Metrics with method level granularity and Persistence using Spring AOP and Spring Actuator.  • Collaborated with a team of project managers, Perl developers and QA engineers in all stages of development cycle till deployment.  • Develop and identify Errors/ Bugs from the characteristic behavior of NIC cards and submitted Analysis report to deliverables.  • Investigated and fixed production issues based on the client reports  • Perform unit and black box testing of the entire Scheduling application  • Worked on Application Lifecycle Management tool and used Automation Runner with ALM that communicated using Visual Basic Scripts.    Environment: Java, JavaScript, Vue, C#, HTML5, CSS, Perl, Python, ALM, Automation Runner, Sun Solaris, Linux, Windows, Photoshop, Source Control - Clear Case, Sping Framework, Microservices. Software Engineer Wipro/HP February 2013 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed and maintained several websites using a content management tool.  Work with designers, and developers (both on-site and 3rd party) to solve technical and design challenges.  • Worked on building a Web service Api that interacts with MongoDb, queries it and returns a JSON in C# .NET  • Collaborated with a team of project managers, Java developers and QA engineers to see projects through full development life cycles.  • We followed unobtrusive JavaScript to get better user experience.  • Developed rounded boxes using CSS3, HTML5 video tags also written CSS for media types such as Print and email.  • Resolved Internet Explorer several CSS bugs within given tight schedule.  • Quickly prototyped new user interface concepts in object-oriented JavaScript and tested on IE/Firefox browser to validate UI/UX approach.  • Used grid system CSS for page layouts.  • Rapidly designed & built object-oriented, data-driven JavaScript working prototypes of applications. Implemented performance best practices to a web site.  • Introducing user-friendly and modern design styles into technical web applications to improve user experience and efficiency.  • Used Subversion SVN for CVS.  Environment: Java, HTML5, DHTML, XML, XSLT, CSS3, ANT, Angular, C#, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, SQL, Sun Solaris, Linux, Windows, Photoshop, Source Control - Clear Case. Education Master's in Computers in Computers St. Mary's University - San Antonio, TX