Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - Ruoff Home Mortgage Fort Wayne, IN I work independently or as team lead in the requirements gathering, design, development, and support of enterprise software and services. I foster a collaborative environment across development teams, while setting a very high standard of quality in the final software product. I was also highly successful in two separate positions leading fast paced machining and shipping departments.    I have a wealth of experience interacting with customers, project stakeholders, focus groups, project managers, all levels of management, developers, and other IT professionals. I have developed multi-project relationships with contract customers, as I traveled to their facilities and worked with them to determine requirements and basic design and returned to implement and test out the final products.    Technologies used are C#, Visual Basic, ASP.NET (Web Forms, MVC, and Web API), WinForms, Xamarin, Razor, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, SQL, MySQL, LINQ, Entity Framework, TFS, Git, Encompass (components, plugins, codebases, and forms), Crystal Reports, Jira (scrum), and Windows, Visual Studio, Office, SSMS, Code Compare, Postman, and Fiddler. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Software Developer Ruoff Home Mortgage March 2017 to Present I designed and developed a borrower document portal to help speed up the process of gathering necessary documents for loan processing and, with supporting components from other developers, I developed two loan officer portals where they can wait and get leads from our online application process.     l was then both lead and primary developer tasked with converting and expanding upon the functionality of the document portal and online application processes to evolve them into our primary customer portal, The Loan Butler Digital Mortgage Solution.    I developed a component to send Milestone Emails to borrowers, realtors, and other related contacts based on key milestones in Encompass loan applications. I later converted this component to an on-demand library for use with other applications that I have designed and developed.    I encouraged our team to embrace library-based component building and went on to lead design and development of an application event logger, a database library, an Active Directory authenticator, a milestone emailer and texter, and a security library for encoding, encryption, tokens, and hashing.    I have built many automation programs, including a website that calls a scheduled task and interacts with a SQL database and Encompass to update loans with funding information, programs that send out Milestone Emails or texts under different conditions, a document bundling program that determines necessary documents, gathers them, and bundles them for transfer to investors, and a myriad of loan maintenance programs used to automate various operations.    I spend a portion of my time, as needed, teaching my teammates about MVC components, standards, methodologies, and best practices and I am often called upon to deal with issues in C#, SQL, or any of the myriad of tools and technologies that we use in our applications. Software Developer Earth Base Games September 2010 to Present I designed and developed two puzzle games for Xbox LIVE on Xbox 360. They were both very well received by reviewers, customers, and fellow developers. I used the now defunct XNA Framework by Microsoft as the game engine and Microsoft published both games.    I started Earth Base Games while getting my degree and it continues on as a side business. I am now developing games, software, and components for Xbox LIVE, Windows 10, iOS, and Android. I am the CEO/Creative Director/ Developer, with my wife as CFO/Tester and our Yorkie as CSO.    Technologies used are C#, Visual Studio, Adobe Creative Suite, Paint.net, and Unity 3D. Software Developer Physicians Health Plan of Northern Indiana December 2016 to February 2017 I worked independently, with stakeholder input, on developing, testing, and releasing upgrades and supporting existing C# and Visual Basic applications to meet the ever-changing demands of the health insurance industry.    Technologies used were C#, Visual Basic, WinForms, Web Forms, SQL, Visual Studio, and Office. Software Developer Pyromation, Inc May 2015 to November 2016 I designed and developed a custom Coefficient Calculator program, which calculates resistances for any temperature based on test points. This program is relied upon by Pyromation's in-house Metrology lab for all its calibrations, their partners’ labs, and is offered for purchase to customers, giving them the ability to calibrate temperature sensors in their own labs.    I designed and developed a custom Part Configurator program, which takes in specifications via many different dropdowns (which changed as you progressed), a few text boxes, and other inputs, and produces a programmatically created blueprint and calculates per part cost of everything you can imagine, based on quantity desired.    I completely overhauled the back end code of their Ordering Tool to vastly improve the tracking of all the ordering, receipt, and usage of purchased materials, to accurately calculate standard deviations and various other metrics across all of their suppliers, and to inform buyers of the lead time for each supplier and material combination.     I revamped their handling of hazardous material information and labelling to make them compliant with new OSHAA rules. I was involved in the design meetings with the various stakeholders; I developed Epicor forms to enter and update information on all their materials; revamped where and how material documents were stored electronically; completely overhauled and majorly upgraded functionality of the document portal used to edit, upload, and view current and all previous versions of their many different kinds of documents; dynamically squeezed a tremendous amount of new text onto their material labels; and revamped the labeling code.    Technologies used were C#, Visual Basic, WinForms, Web Forms, MVC, Web API, HTML, CSS, SQL, LINQ, Entity Framework, Bootstrap, SourceSafe, Crystal Reports, JavaScript, jQuery, Epicor, and various versions of Windows, Visual Studio, Office, and SQL Server Management Studio. Software Developer Matrix Automation January 2014 to May 2015 I worked with customers, project managers, and other team members, remotely and on-site, to customize Matrix's ProductionWare software to satisfy each customer's specific business needs.    I designed, developed, and provided expansions for a custom inventory control application that identifies shortages before they happen, by examining current inventory stocks, parts lists, and open orders to determine the need for each purchased part. This product's software development lifecycle involved a lot of online and direct interaction with the IT, purchasing, and inventory departments of the customer that requested the application and it became an additional retail product for sale to other customers.    I designed and developed a custom report services component that is able to combine and nest RDL report files as many layers deep as necessary to produce very thorough production reports for a customer. This component was developed to solve the nesting shortcomings of SSRS and is offered as an upcharge expansion for Matrix's ProductionWare retail product.    I completely overhauled, created major expansions, enhanced security, and supplied on-site training for a complex kiosk program that provides a wealth of company and employee information and interaction to users at various points throughout both of the customer's manufacturing facilities. This product was developed to be extremely customizable by the customer via an easy to use interface and a SQL database and it became an additional retail product for sale to other customers.    Technologies used were C#, Visual Basic, VBA, WinForms, Web Forms, HTML, CSS, SQL, SourceSafe, and various versions of Windows, Visual Studio, Office, and SQL Server Management Studio. Education Bachelor's in Software Development Baker College of Flint Skills C# (7 years), Software Development (7 years), NET (5 years), Javascript (4 years), MVC (4 years), SQL (5 years), HTML (5 years), CSS (5 years), Visual Basic (3 years), Asp.Net (5 years), MySQL (3 years), Web Services (3 years), JQuery (4 years), Bootstrap (4 years), TFS-GIT (3 years)