Intermediate Software Developer Intermediate <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Intermediate Software Developer - Stifel Financial Corp US Software Developer skilled at technical leadership, communication, and presentations. Over five years of experience leading teams in Agile/Scrum methodology. Experienced in full project life cycle from design to implementation to integration. Interested in opportunities to learn and refine development skillset and build leadership. Work Experience Intermediate Software Developer Stifel Financial Corp - St. Louis, MO February 2018 to Present • Senior-most web developer on a cross-functional Agile/Scrum team, leading story refinement and development from Web perspective while working with SQL developers, QA, architects and stakeholders to provide valuable software  • Worked and learned Angular when requested on a team as the only front-end developer for a special project, working closely with backend/Web API & SQL resources to bring product vision to life quickly and iteratively  • Lead development efforts to create a custom Visual Studio extension to integrate JIRA, TFS, and CodeCollaborator implementations into Visual Studio  Environment: C#, Visual Studio, Angular5+, VS Code, Windows IIS, JIRA, TFS Intermediate Software Developer TriZetto Solutions - St. Louis, MO May 2014 to February 2018 Azure Data & Software Migration - Lead a team that tasked with a part of a large effort to move our entire hardware stack to PaaS systems in Azure cloud. Was responsible for migrating and updating all (approx. 100) desktop applications to an RDS environment. Modernization of legacy tools to work in new environment, reconfiguration, and testing effort.  ? Claim History Search - Developed and deployed C# MVC Web application utilizing Telerik Controls, Bootstrap UI, JQuery, CSS with extensive search capabilities for large databases (100M+ records). Worked in Agile Sprints with a 6-person team, delivered ahead of schedule.  ? Invoice Generation - Modified existing invoicing software to correct errors, adapt to new hardware and improve performance. SME for invoicing software that handles thousands of clients, millions of records, and bills for millions of dollars monthly. Worked closely with Accounting team to modernize previous invoicing software from FoxPro to .NET Applications  ? SalesForce Migration- Built, tested, and deployed scalable, highly available and modular RESTful C# Web API that integrates the SalesForce platform to current business workflow. Developed secure APIs to communicate with SalesForce platform for development for data transfer  ? Led team of 3-6 developers in absence of a Senior Developer. Quickly learned to lead and picked up slack. Responsible for transitions and education of new leads  Environment: C#, Visual Studio, TFS, Salesforce, Windows IIS, Visual Basic, FoxPro IT Technician Missouri S&T IT - Rolla, MO August 2012 to May 2014 Troubleshooted and issue resolution for professors and grad students, technical support including software, OS, and hardware Intern Centene Corporation - St. Louis, MO May 2013 to August 2013 Built, tested, and deployed scalable software products using Java Spring framework.  ? Quality assurance and troubleshooted for production software solutions, reported and fixed dozens of software defects.  ? Utilized Agile-Scrum method.    Environment: Java, Spring, Jenkins Education B.S. in Computer Science in Computer Science Missouri University of Science and Technology 2009 to 2014 Skills .net, Visual studio, Api, C#, C++, Javascript, Bootstrap, Php, Css, Iis, Web services, Angularjs, Mvc, Mysql, Sql, Stored procedures, Java, jquery, Ui, Microsoft office, HTML 5 Assessments Data Analysis — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/peyhm4pmjk3kausc Problem Solving — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fgulsmdbvscmq7r Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills  C#, Visual Studio, .NET Platform  Worked on desktop, web applications, Web APIs, backends and UI    MVC and Web Services  Strong understanding of MVC model, IIS configuration and setup    Angular/JS, Bootstrap, JQuery  Development on several Angular 5+ Apps, AngularJS, and Web API in C#. Used Angular Materials, BootstrapUI and other tools for frontend development    Other Skills  C++, Java  SQL, Stored Procedures  JQuery, Javascript, CSS  Microsoft Server (IIS)  PHP, MYSQL  Microsoft Office Products