Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Embassy of Algeria Washington, DC I am a team player software engineer with a can-do attitude, phenomenal time management skills, and a strong user focus who wishes to work with a software company using my skills, talent and passion for software engineering to deliver robust bug free code for enterprise level applications. I speak three languages very fluently (English, French, and Arabic). All my diplomas are validated by WES in Canada. Work Experience Software Developer Embassy of Algeria 2016 to Present Unites States of America  My responsibilities include:  - Meeting with Product Owners and Stake Holders to Collect requirements for the business needs.  - Translate Meeting notes and discussions into a written set of user stories and action items ready for research and development.  - Setting up .Net environment and preparing project using MS Visual Studio to setup the architecture, framework and resources.  - Developing custom .Net Projects using C# and SQL language.  - Setup, Connect, and deploy Client projects on Amazon Cloud Services (AWS)  - Maintain, troubleshoot and refactor scripts, features for some applications.  - Add features according to requirements or new Client's requests. Software & IT Staffer/Web Administrator Embassy of Algeria 2009 to Present in The Unites States of America  My responsibilities include:  - Installing, Configuring the Local Network including Communicating with vendors for troubleshooting, upgrades, security and regular maintenance.  - Maintaining user hardware and software, including servers, laptops, desktops,  - tablets, iPhones, Office 365, etc.  - Verifying backup status while providing remedies on failed backup jobs.  - Resolving troubleshoots on the server, desktops, laptops.  - Setting up the Website on the Hosting server, communicating regularly with hosting company and registrar.  - Meeting with stakeholders to collect requirement for website updates.  - Maintain website, update content, setup, design and publish new pages on the website  - Installed, Configured, and Managed Captiva InputAccel  - Install and Configure Captiva modules including Scan Module, Image Enhancement module, Index module, Image Export Module, ODBC Module, Image Import, OCR Module, Captiva Supervisor Module, Captiva Administrator Module.  - Installed, Configured, and Managed SQL Server 2012, 2008 R2 in development, test, and production environment  - Installed and Configured SQL Server 2008 for testing different features and stability  - Strong working experience in creating, modifying tables, Index (Cluster/Non-Cluster), Constraints (Unique/Check), Views, Developed Different Maintenance Plans for database monitoring Education Master of Science in Information Systems Strayer University - Washington, DC 2016 to 2018 Master of Computer Science in Software Engineering and Networks University of Science and Technology 2005 to 2008 Bachelor's in computer science University of Science and Technology 1998 to 2003 Skills SQL (10+ years), .NET (3 years), AWS (3 years), MS VISUAL STUDIO (3 years), VISUAL STUDIO (3 years) Additional Information Skills  Development: MS Visual Studio, IIS, Active Directory, Windows Servers, AWS, Shared Hosting, FTP, GitHub, Developer Tools (Inspect and Debug), Microsoft Project.  Operating System: MS-DOS, WINDOWS 3.11 - 95 - 98 - NT, XP, VISTA, WIN7, WIN 8, UNIX, LINUX.  Networks / Protocols: LAN/WAN, TCP/IP, FTP, Ethernet.  Data and Analytics Tools/Languages: SQL, Tableau, Amazon Web Services.