Server Server Computer Programming and Analysis Deltona, FL Dedicated graduate with an A.S. in Computer Programming & Analysis. Seeking a position with potential growth and advancement, a company willing to work with me while I further my education; by pursuing my Bachelor Degree in Information Technology. Programmer analyst, with experience in previous projects from Daytona State College, collecting facts, discovering problems as well as providing solutions to them. Works well individually, supports and enriches team environments. Currently working towards A+ Certification and Bachelor of Science in Information Technology     - Diligent worker.  - Effective decision maker.  - Superb communication skills.  - Effective written and oral reports.  - Multitask-er.  - Dependable & punctual. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Server Miller's Ale House - Sanford, FL July 2018 to Present • Take food and beverage orders and must enter all orders as quickly as possible while maintaining the proper sequence.  • Serve ordered food and beverages in their section and to other sections as well when other servers assigned to that area is doing something.  • Coordinate with the kitchen to make sure that service is on time and the quality of the food is according to the company's standards. Software Developer Internship Daytona State College - Daytona Beach, FL October 2017 to December 2017 • Create a new MS SQL database on your local PC.  • Create new tables to handle certain functionalities.  • Users should be able to filter results by using the where clause. The status bar shows username, permission level, database connected to.  • Setup an admin user that would have access to this application’s configuration.  • Setup test user(s) to be able to demo all functionality Waiter Bob Evans Restaurant - Orange City, FL December 2013 to October 2017 • Take food and beverage orders and must enter all orders as quickly as possible while maintaining the proper sequence.   • Serve ordered food and beverages in their section and to other sections as well when other servers assigned to that area is doing something.   • Coordinate with the kitchen to make sure that service is on time and the quality of the food is according to the company's standards. Education Associate's in Computer Programming and Analysis Daytona State College - Daytona Beach, FL January 2013 to December 2017 Bachelor's in Information Technology Daytona State College - Daytona Beach, FL May 2018 Skills Application Support, System Analyst, Microsoft Office, CSS, HTML 5, Windows, .NET, Adobe, SQL, Customer Service, Photography (4 years), Photoshop (4 years), Lightroom (4 years)