Sr MAINFRAME DEVELOPER Sr MAINFRAME <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> Sr MAINFRAME DEVELOPER - Sohan It Inc Lincoln, NE • Senior Mainframe Developer with 8+ years of IT experience in IBM Mainframe technology with extensive proficiency in JCL, COBOL, VSAM, DB2, CICS, VSAM, IMS, IDMS, EASYTRIEVE, CHANGE-MAN, FILE-AID, FILE-MANAGER, SCLM, XPEDITOR (Debug Tool), SYNC SORT, CA7, SPUFI, QMF, ENDEVOR, MVS, TSO/ISPF, MQ Series and STORED PROCEDURE.  • Have 1+ year experience in Java and J2EE Technologies.  • Expertise with full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and documentation including requirements gathering, analyzing the project requirements, analyzing the existing systems, Detailed Designing, Writing of Global Design Documents, Functional Design Documents, Technical Design Documents, Development, testing of the applications and Documentation of Applications Software and have a good understanding of AGILE methodology.  • Solid working experience on several databases like DB2, IMS and VSAM.  • Extensive experience in developing COBOL codes from scratch involving DB2, IMS and VSAM.  • Good working knowledge of major Z/OS, TSO/ISPF Operating Systems.  • Practical Knowledge in designing and developing web-based enterprise applications using Java, J2EE technologies including Servlets, JSP, EJB, JDBC, XML and JMS.  • Excellent knowledge in Regression Testing, Unit Testing, Integration Testing, System Testing, User Acceptance Testing, Production Implementation and maintenance of mainframe applications. Support activities on Integration Testing and UAT.  • Experienced in code implementation in staging environments and maintenance and Production implementation and post implementation support  • Good experience with Version control tools like ENDEAVOR & CHANGE-MAN. Experience in Package creation, Migration & Installation of the impacted elements of change requests using version control.  • Good understanding and practice of Quality Assurance Processes. Acquired knowledge through the Defect Prevention activities, Quality Control (ISO 9001, CMM), Configuration Control, Coding Standards, Maintenance standards etc.  • Knowledge in job Scheduling, Performance Tuning, Normalization/De-normalization concepts, database design methodology.  • Projects involved feasibility studies, analysis of business problems, business requirements, cross functional analysis, data modelling, process modelling, development and implementation of software in the mainframe.  • Proficient in obtaining project requirements from user and manager, formulating the requirements into design specs, preparing system specifications, assigning tasks to team members, and tracking the progress.  • Excellent Organizational, Analytical, Teamwork skills along with good communication and interpersonal skills, very good team player, Ability to handle tasks independently. Work Experience Sr MAINFRAME DEVELOPER State of Nebraska - Lincoln, NE June 2017 to Present • Worked in MMIS (Medicaid Management information system) to process the Medicaid claims.  • Created various COBOL/CICS/DB2/VSAM programs for batch processing of IBM System.  • Analyzed existing online and batch applications, Prepared the High-Level Design Documents, Component Specifications, Developed and tested the changes and documented the test cases and test cases results and conducted the reviews using the COBOL, SAS, JCL, DB2, CICS, MQ, IMS/DC.  • Used TSO in building my applications to interact with z/OS operating system.  • Involved in design, coding and testing of COBOL/DB2 Stored Procedures.  • Prepare / modify JCLs and PROCs for special requirements i.e. data fixes, deletion of data based on retention date.  • Worked with Sync sort to perform various operations in my JCL job processing.  • Changed the existing COBOL Programs to perform the tasks in PARALLEL from Serial processing.  • Created COBOL programs to split the functionality in the program into each different program and run in parallel.  • Development and Testing of the optimization techniques  • Investigate and correct identified defects.  • Responsible for converting the business requirements into detailed design document.  • Involved writing the TSD and low-level data flow.  • Involved creating JCL, PROC and Control card for various batch jobs.  • Implementation the batch process in Production and Support in case of Abends/Issues  • Wrote unit test plans, integration test plans Sr MAINFRAME DEVELOPER DST SYSTEMS - Kansas City, MO June 2015 to June 2017 • Started as an intern during my summer semester while pursuing my master's in computer science.  • Participate in the meetings with Business users to gather business requirements, discussing about the pending requirements and set the priorities for the requirements.  • Created various COBOL/CICS/DB2/VSAM programs for batch processing of IBM System.  • Analyzed existing online and batch applications, Prepared the High-Level Design Documents, Component Specifications, Developed and tested the changes and documented the test cases and test cases results and conducted the reviews using the COBOL, SAS, JCL, DB2, CICS, MQ, IMS/DC.  • Used TSO in building my applications to interact with z/OS operating system.  • Involved in design, coding and testing of COBOL/DB2 Stored Procedures.  • Prepare / modify JCLs and PROCs for special requirements i.e. data fixes, deletion of data based on retention date.  • Worked with Sync sort to perform various operations in my JCL job processing.  • Prepared detail design, unit test plan for the new COBOL programs and JCL's.  Utilized Changeman for configuration management.  • Changed the existing COBOL Programs to perform the tasks in PARALLEL from Serial processing.  • Created COBOL programs to split the functionality in the program into each different program and run in parallel.  • Worked on tuning of SQL's for the ad-hoc SQL's and for DB2 modules to improve the overall performance of the jobs and cost effective of the SQL's.  • Development and Testing of the optimization techniques  • Used Quality center for defect life cycle  • Responsible for production rollover and production support.  • Investigate and correct identified defects.  • Responsible for converting the business requirements into detailed design document.  • Involved writing the TSD and low level data flow.  • Used XPEDITOR to test the batch job.  • Involved creating JCL, PROC and Control card for various batch jobs.  • Implementation the batch process in Production and Support in case of Abends/Issues  • Wrote unit test plans, integration test plans  • Participated in Identifying poor performing SQL queries mainly to 24*7 batch processing jobs by getting the STROBE statistics of DB2 queries and improved the performance of the long running DB2 queries Software Engineer HSBC India Pvt limited - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2013 to August 2014 • Developed the Front-End view pages in JSP, using CSS and validations were done using Servlets.  • Programming for various backend logic was done using Core java and EJB made extensive use of collections and multithreading.  • Developed the Application Based on Struts Framework made extensive use of Front Controller Pattern to map requests.  • Conducting High Level and Low-level design walkthrough/review via meeting and presentations of proposed implementation.  • Develop Technical Design Document based on Low Level Design Document.  • Create new modules and enhance the existing programs as per the business requirements and the Technical design document within the stipulated time lines.  • Worked closely with team for planning, scheduling and executing tests in the system test environment.  • Developed detailed test plan, Risk analysis document. Created test cases, testing jobs and executed them. Created reports for analysis of results of unit testing and integration testing. Software Engineer DST Worldwide Services India Pvt limited - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2010 to April 2013 • Developing new COBOL-DB2 programs, JCL and other components based on the Technical Design Document.  • Conducting High Level and Low level design walkthrough/review via meeting and presentations of proposed implementation.  • Managing the artefact versions through Configuration Management tool CHANGE-MAN.  • Develop Technical Design Document based on Low Level Design Document.  • Create new modules and enhance the existing programs as per the business requirements and the Technical design document within the stipulated time lines.  • Regular meetings with Project Manager to discuss and update the work progress.  • Used SORT techniques extensively to improve the batch performance effectively.  • Used TSO in building my applications to interact with z/OS operating system.  • Extensively used SQL Queries to satisfy Adhoc business owner(s) data reporting needs.  • Used Endeavor Software for Configuration management.  • Performed Impact analysis and system analysis for the requirements.  • Involved in solution designing/review meetings with the development and implementation teams.  • Building the knowledge repository document for each project requirements. This is to support the business users and production Support team.  • Regular meetings with Project Manager to discuss and update the work progress. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Missouri - Kansas City, MO December 2015 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University May 2010 Skills Db2, Sql, Vsam, Cobol, Ibm z/os, Mvs, Os/390, J2ee, Java, Jcl, Application development, C++, Hive, Html, Ms project, Pig, Scripting, Visio, Xml, Cics Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming Languages: Java and J2EE, C, C++, COBOL, JCL, SQL, Easytrieve, CICS, DB2 Stored  Procedures, RDBMS, Shell Scripting, HTML, XML, Apache, PIG, Hive  Application Development Tools: Abend-AID, File-Aid, TSO, VSAM, Xpeditor, Fault Analyzer,  ISPF, MVS, SPUFI, Quality Centre.  Databases DB2, VSAM  Tools SFTP/FTP, NDM, FILE-AID, FILE-MANAGER.  Microsoft Tools MS Project, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access, Visio  Version Control Tools Changeman, Endeavor  Test Management Tools Xpeditor  Operating Systems Windows, IBM z/OS, OS/390, MVS/ESA