UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Jenison, MI To obtain a software engineer position Work Experience UI Developer CUAnswers - Grand Rapids, MI May 2019 to Present Worked on developing the UI for CUAnswers GOLD credit union system using LegaSuite. This UI was used as a over lay for their back-end software. Software Engineer Trane November 2018 to May 2019 • Developed a Performance algorithm to calculate heating systems performance  ? This new program would take the user's inputs and a range in temperature and would then calculate the heating systems performance at different ambient air temperatures in five degree increments. The algorithm would take the inputs and calculate the results using an additional software called UP2. This program eliminated manually entering the data for each temperature increment.  ? The program was written in Visual Basic. The program used Excel along with UP2 to show and calculate the results. This program improved productivity and accuracy when calculating performance for these heating systems.  • Worked on various different macros and excel sheets for different members at Trane by updating them and changing various functions to current standards.    Jenison, Michigan (616)-340-3112, markandrewvb@gmail.com Software Developer Mol Belting October 2016 to October 2018 • Developed a DXF file creator software based on an old software with lost source code  ? This new program would take in the user's specifications about the belt (Ex. The length, width and other factors) and use them to create a DXF file (or AutoCAD) file, to be used by a machine that would cut out the belt. The user could make Flat Belts, Powerturns and track seal curve type belts. The program also had a preview screen, which displayed the belt the user had made.  ? The program was written in C# .NET using visual studio and was displayed using WPF XAML. The program also connected with the SQL database to retrieve user's defaults and custom settings. The program expanded on the old software and included new features and bug fixes that was not previously in the old program.  • Developed a Table Maintenance software which was used to manage part specifications  ? The program displayed all of the parts and materials in a Tree structure and were divided into different categories. The user could then assign the part to different groups or change different attributes that related to the part.  ? The program was written in C# .NET using visual studio and was displayed using WPF XAML. The program used a lot of stored procedures that connected the software to the SQL database. The program was designed using a MVVM structure.  • Developed a program that connects to a PLC machine allowing users to manage jobs  ? This program would allow the user to bypass the HMI display on the machine and would instead be controlled solely with the computer connected to it. This would allow the users to clock into specific jobs and be able to run the machine all from one place.  ? The program was written in C# .NET using visual studio and was displayed using WPF XAML. The program connected to the PLC via an Ethernet cable and used RS Logix to monitor the PLC and used INGEAR drivers to connect with the PLC. The program also connected with the SQL database so that it could keep track of employee's job specifications. The program was designed using a MVVM structure.  • Developed a Configurator for managing jobs and sales  ? This program would allow the sales department to have jobs, sales, materials and a variety of other things all in one place when talking to clients. The user could make a new sale and then the program would calculate the total estimated price for the job.  ? The program was written in C# .NET using visual studio and was displayed using WPF XAML. The program connected with the SQL database  • Made changes to an existing software, which made it so that the program could also be displayed in Dutch along with English.    Jenison, Michigan (616)-340-3112, markandrewvb@gmail.com    • Made changes to SQL stored procedures that were being used by a variety of different programs.  Competed in Programming Competition October 2015  Hosted by Atomic Object in Grand Rapids MI  • Worked with a team to program an AI for the competition which had each team develop an AI that would play a game of Othello against the opposing team's AI. Our team wrote our program in C#.  Learning JavaScript and HTML as a side project Present  • Learning JavaScript and HTML as a side project by using online courses and examples.  Working on a video game project 2016 - present  • I am working on a video game project using the Game Maker 2 engine which uses GML (similar to python) and GLSL (OpenGL) shading language.  Helped design a working database in SQL October 2015  • Worked with a team to make a database in SQL for CIS 353 (Database).  Made a number of projects for Computer Science and Engineering courses  • Made a Pacman game with a team for my capstone project using C# in the unity game engine.  • Helped build and design a robot for engineering 101 relay race contest in fall of 2010  • Made a number of different programs for an Arduino board in C++ in a college class five person team Russ's Grandville MI - Grandville, MI August 2010 to January 2016 Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science Grand Valley State University - Grand Rapids, MI April 2017 Skills .net, Visual studio, C#, C++, Drivers, Html, Javascript, Visual basic, Sql, Wpf, Eclipse, Solid works, Rs logix, Autocad, Excel, Word, Integration, Front End, UI Additional Information Skills  Computer Software  • Five-year experience with  ? C#, .Net, SQL, WPF, XAML, Visual studio, Microsoft (word, excel)  • Over a year experience with  ? AutoCad, Visual Basic, C, C++, Solid Works and PLC integration with RS Logix and INGEAR drivers  • Have had some experience with  ? JavaScript, HTML, Eclipse