Application System Engineer/ Software Developer Application System Engineer/ <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> .Net Developer Charlotte, NC • Over 7 years of experience in Financial, Technology and Retail Automation in System Analysis, design, Development, Research and Implementation of various applications related to Client/Server, n-tier and Internet technologies.   • Expertise in developing web based and window based applications using C#.Net, VB.Net, ASP.Net.   • Experience with all the phases of software development life cycle (SDLC).   • Working experience on projects using the latest Microsoft technologies such as Visual Studio .NET, C#. NET, ASP.NET, VB.NET ADO.NET, XML Web Services, Visual Basic 6.0 and SQL Server.   • Experience in developing Web based applications such as Visual Studio. NET, C#, ADO.NET, ASP.NET, VB.NET, Web Services, Visual Studio , Visual SourceSafe, ASP, COM, ActiveX controls, HTML, VBScript, JavaScript with Class modules.   • Experience in maintaining applications on Microsoft Azure Cloud environments.  • Experience in system development which includes requirements gathering, planning etc.   • Experience in Data Base design and modeling.   • Experience in writing Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views, DTS packages and SSIS packages on MS SQL Server 2016/2014/2012/2010/2008.  • Experience in designing complex reports including sub reports and formulas with complex logic using SQL Reporting Services on SQL Server 2012/2010/2008 and Crystal Reports 9/XI.   • Worked on some of the phases of data warehouse development lifecycle, from gathering requirements to testing, implementation, and support.   • Hands on working Knowledge in .Net Technologies C#, ASP.Net, ADO.Net, Web Services, PL/SQL.   • Experience in designing web pages using ASP.NET AJAX.   • Good experience in Java Script, HTML5, HTML, CSS3, IIS6, CSS, Angular JS, Angular 2+.   • Developed, configured and deployed a variety of .net Framework Applications including Win Forms, Web Services, Web Forms and Windows Services.  • Having exposure to LINQ Concepts in .NET Framework 3.5/4.   • Having good experience in Test Driven and Agile Development.   • Have Development and performance tuning experience working as a Database Developer.   • Involved in Unit testing and have created unit test cases.   • Experience in Version Management using Visual Source Safe (VSS), Tortoise SVN and TFS.   • Able to operate both independently and in a team environment.   • Experience in working with Document Object Model (DOM) prototype.  • Highly dedicated, quick starter, solution driven pattern programmer, Strong in Object Oriented Analysis and Design, Excellent at solving complex problems under strict deadlines.   • Possesses good organizational as well as written and verbal communication skills.  • Extensive hands on experience in using LINQ in web pages to retrieve and update the data.   • Experienced in Documenting, Preparing Test Plans, developing test cases and Testing (Unit, System, Integration, User Acceptance testing and Regression testing).   • Proficient in generating SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and Crystal Reports for report generation, integration into  . NET applications.   • Proficient in designing and implementing web applications using client-side framework for validations such as JavaScript to avoid the need for post back and to improve their performance.   • Experience creating business components using . NET Class Library assemblies   • Experience in securing web application using ASP. NET authentication and authorization.   • Experience in design patterns such as Singleton, Factory and Composition.   • Strong Experience of SDLC (Agile, SCRUM) including SRS, Design & Analysis, Development, Testing, Deployment/Installation packaging, Version Controlling.   • Developed User controls for reusability.   • Experience in working in SOA.   • Extensive experience in developing web applications using Sitecore MVC.   • Experienced user of Microsoft Office application including Word, Access, Excel, Visio and PowerPoint and   • Familiar with FrameMaker, Web Works Publisher and graphics tools.   • Has valuable experience in Unit testing and Integration testing. Expertise with Jira, Remedy and Chameleon tools.   • Excellent analytical, inter-personal, communication & written skills.   • Excellent team player with problem-solving and trouble-shooting capabilities. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application System Engineer/ Software Developer Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC September 2017 to Present RESPONSIBILITIES:     • Analyze the functional requirements specifications and system design specifications and interaction with analysts for changes in requirements.  • Design and develop web application using ASP.NET MVC, JavaScript, HTML5, C#, Web API, Kendo UI, JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap and AJAX to enhance UI experience.  • Migrate Legacy Cold Fusion application to latest technologies and .NET framework.  • Provide Production support to CWS Related applications CWS Wholesale, CWS Retail and CWS Annual Attestation.  • Responsible for BAU support for other applications in the team, Maintain CWS web applications in Microsoft Azure Cloud Environment and provide support as necessary.  • Review Code of the team members on the application development team and help with any changes/enhancements. Provide input and support to fellow developers.  • Responsible for creating tables, writing SQL complex queries, stored procedures, Triggers and assigning roles to the Users by using SQL Server Management Studio 2014 and 2016.  • Work with Team Foundation Server 2015 for source code management and bug tracking.  • Responsible for Development, Deployment, Documentation and release management of applications by using software life cycle.  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for development process and Agile including Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance.   • Interacted with business analysis, technical lead, team members and production support team for requirement, functional specifications and technical architecture.   • Used Web Services for communicating with other application and components.   • Used Java script and AJAX to enhance the functionality of web pages.   • Used Asp. net MVC architecture.   • Used . Net Framework class library to build user interface that separated application logic from presentation code using code behind pages.   • Writing technical write-ups and creating SQL stored procedures, functions, triggers, views and user defined table types using Management Studio.   • Used TFS for the version control of the application.   • Designing and creating new reports, modifying existing reports using crystal reports.   • Created and consumed WCF Web Services (SOAP, WSDL), Restful WEB API services for communicating.   • Developed custom workflows using Windows Workflow Foundation template in Visual Studio.   • Designed the architecture of the application using Dependency Injection (Unity), HTML5, Bootstrap, Web API and Entity framework.   • Hands-on experience with Mulesoft Anypoint Platform ESB in designing and implementing components for API/Services Gateway and mediation flows with multiple connectors and integrating applications using JMS, ActiveMQ, Databases, FTP servers, etc.,   • Front end development utilizing HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript leveraging the Bootstrap framework and a Java / SQL backend.   • Fetched data from database and displayed in web controls through XML.   • Worked on Payment gateway integration using SDK and followed PCI compliance for payments.   • Defined a template for an entire application consisting of many forms using Master Pages.   • Creating new web pages using Visual Studio.   • Optimizing SQL queries for performance improvisation.   • Participating in code reviews, Team meetings and status review meetings.   • Implementing the solution in the live environment, fixing bugs and working on enhancements for the desired changes.    Environment: C#, ASP.NET 4.5/5.0, MVC4, HTML5, CSS3, BootStrap, Telerik Kendo UI, Visual Studio 2015/2017, SQL Server 2014/2016, ASE Sybase, JSON, AJAX, IIS 7.x, JavaScript, Angular JS, Angular 6/4, jQuery, Tortoise SVN, Entity Framework, LINQ to SQL, Team Foundation Server, GIT .Net Developer Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC January 2017 to August 2017 RESPONSIBILITIES:   ·        Visualized the Business requirement and coordinated it to team members.  ·        Designed and developed the web application using ASP.NET MVC4 framework.   ·        Involved in development of the Data access layer, business logic layer (Middle tier) and the User Interface (Front-end).  ·        Designed Database objects in Sybase and SQL required for the application modules.  ·        Involved in Design and Development of a 3-tier architecture that includes Presentation layer, Business Logic Layer and Data Access Layer.   ·        Presentation Layer was implemented in ASP. NET using Web controls, and Web forms, HTML, and CSS.   ·        Configured security features for the application using Form Based Authentication and Role Based Authorization in C# and ASP. NET   ·        Extensively used AJAX concepts to make the application interactive and provide enhanced user experience. Migrated existing ASP. NET application to ASP. NET MVC pattern.   ·        Imported contacts from existing application into MS Dynamics CRM using the WCF service.   ·        Different changed procedures in Angular 4 and Angular 2.0 such as Router Outlet and Router Link etc.   ·        Developing Restful services using the WCF framework and used Angular 4.0 material components and changes in the client side validations.   ·        Designed to develop the Angular JS 4 Framework and Node JS. Services and re-used across the application.   ·        Business Logic Layer was implemented in C# . NET using database authentication.   ·        Used Advanced Find feature of MS Dynamics CRM and created multiple views of System Entities.   ·        Extensively used ASP. NET in Data Access Layer for database connectivity.   ·        Used ASP. NET Data providers Datasets to interact with the database.   ·        Worked on Angular by consuming Restful web services and forms with templates driven and modern driven to perform validations on both sides of the server and client.   ·        Implementing the Azure application for the running insights to user activities and error logging.   ·        Deploy WCF services on Azure cloud and configure azure cloud services for end-point deployment.   ·        Wrote Stored Procedures, Triggers, and Views in T-SQL for data interaction with SQL server 2014.   ·        Visual Studio 2015 IDE was used to develop the application. Version control of the source code was done using GIT and Involved in documentation of design and user documents.   ·        Developed the application in both Sybase and SQL environments as part of on-going Database migration project.  ·        Incorporated many rich, user friendly, responsive features in the application using jQuery, JavaScript, Telerik Kendo Controls.  ·        Designed Functional System Design Document to assist QA prepare test cases.  ·         Provided application support during QA/Testing cycle and fixed reported bugs/ worked on enhancements.    Environment: C#, ASP.NET 4.5, MVC4, HTML5, CSS3, BootStrap,Telerik Kendo UI, Visual Studio 2015, SQL Server 2012/2014, ASE Sybase, JSON, AJAX, IIS 7.x, JavaScript, jQuery, Tortoise SVN, Entity Framework, LINQ to SQL .Net Developer Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC December 2015 to December 2016 RESPONSIBILITIES:   ·        Designed and developed the web application using ASP.NET MVC4 framework.   ·        Involved in development of the Data access layer, business logic layer (Middle tier) and the User Interface (Front-end).  ·        Designed Database objects in Sybase and SQL required for the application modules.  ·        Incorporated many rich, user friendly, responsive features in the application using jQuery, JavaScript, Telerik Kendo Controls.  ·        Created login-based members area in the application that displays ASP.NET MVC web pages based on access levels and assigned Roles.   ·        Implemented Client side and Server-side validations using JavaScript and Validation Controls using AJAX calls.  ·         Configured security features for the application Role Based Authorization.   ·        Resolved the issues reported by QA and UAT teams.   ·        Extensively used Tortoise SVN for shelving the code changes, check in the code and tracking defects and requirements.   ·        Code review within the team is preformed using code flow.   ·        Involved in a database migration project to import data from Sybase to SQL Server.  ·        Provided application support during QA/Testing cycle and fixed reported bugs/ worked on enhancements.  ·        Implemented MVC architecture using C# . NET, ASP. NET.   ·        Designed and developed web application using ASP. NET, HTML, C#, CSS, and LINQ respectively.   ·        Created ASP. NET web forms using C#, jQuery, Ajax in Visual Studio.   ·        Creating WPF applications using MVVM architecture.   ·        Created Client side validations with JQuery selectors, Events and Server side validations with ASP. Net   ·        Implemented the WCF Services/consuming the Services with the Security and Debugging Mechanisms.   ·        Improved performance by extensively coding with JavaScript libraries for Client-side validations to eliminate round trip to the server.   ·        Designed & developed front end web application using MVVM pattern   ·        Implemented jQuery for all client-side interactions, validating data, formatting & enhancing controls & data manipulations.   ·        Created & hosted WCF Services and also used different bindings to make it available to different types of clients.   ·        Used JQuery to perform validations and catch the events on client's browser.   ·        Used ADO. Net objects to populate Data sets, Data grid and Repeater controls for display and manipulation of records.   ·        Converted web service methods to Web API service methods for better performance to fetch data from the server called from client-side.   ·        Involved in development of Data Access, Business and application layer using C#. Net and ASP. NET   ·        Used Jquery a concise JavaScript Library for traversing HTML document, event handling and AJAX interactions.   ·        Implemented entity framework to design the data access & business layer components of the application.   ·        Generated classes for all the database objects and extensively used LINQ to populate, update & delete data from the class objects.   ·        Created views, User Defined Functions, Stored Procedures for inserting/updating/Deleting the data into the relational tables.   ·        Created Service Layer using C# and WCF and developing reports via telerik.   ·        Developed WCF web services for implementing functionalities of creating indication, submission, quote & binder records.   ·        Created WCF Services responsible for communicating and providing real time data from integrated server to Client Application.   ·        Implemented HTTP protocol and SSL to secure the information between WCF Service and Client   ·        Prototyping using WCF, WPF, . Net for migration feasibility test.     Environment: C#, ASP.NET 4.5, MVC4, HTML5, CSS3,BootStrap,Telerik Kendo UI, Visual Studio 2015, SQL Server 2012/2014, ASE Sybase, JSON, AJAX, IIS 7.x, JavaScript, jQuery, Tortoise SVN, Entity Framework, LINQ to SQL .Net Developer Department of Revenue Columbia SC - South Carolina January 2014 to November 2015 RESPONSIBILITIES:   ·        Designed and developed the web application using ASP.NET MVC framework.   ·        Incorporated many rich, user friendly, responsive features in the application using jQuery, JavaScript.   ·        Developed Webpages by using MVC Razor, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript JQuery   ·        Implemented Client side and server-side validations done using JavaScript and Validation Controls using AJAX calls.   ·        Used Cookies and Application Level State Management in Application.   ·        Extensively used Web-API& Restful Services using WCF for client-server communication.   ·        Used Entity framework combined with LINQ queries to do database operations.   ·        Created dynamic and interactive user experience with extensive use of AJAX and jQuery.   ·        Resolved the issues reported by QA and UAT teams.   ·        Extensively used Team Foundation server for Version Controlling and Collaborating with a team of developers and testers.   ·        The SDLC methodology 'Agile' is widely followed in the project, with regular scrum meetings and triage meetings to discuss about the project updates.   ·        Code review within the team is preformed using code flow.   ·        Co-ordination with offshore and on-site team on a daily basis     Environment: C#, ASP.NET 4.5, MVC5, HTML5, CSS3, Angular.js, Visual Studio 2013, SQL Server 2012/2008R2, WCF, Restful Services, JSON, AJAX, IIS 7.x, JavaScript, jQuery, TFS 2013, Entity Framework, LINQ to SQL Software Developer Integ Software Solutions - India June 2012 to November 2013 RESPONSIBILITIES:   ·        Developed programming scenarios in C#, Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) concepts such as: encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism, and abstraction.   ·        Used MVC Design Pattern to develop classes in order to having clear separation of responsibilities of all the supported client actions.   ·        Designed and developed dynamic ASPX web pages using C#, ASP.Net, XML, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.   ·        Designed and developed various abstract classes, interfaces, classes to construct the business logic using C#.NET, ADO.NET and PL/SQL.   ·        Created Stored Procedures to manipulate the database and to apply the business logic according to the user's specifications.   ·        Extensively made use of Grid View, Data List and Drop down List for displaying the data in a clear and pleasant format.   ·        Used ASP.NET AJAX Toolkit controls like Script Manager and Update Panel within some web pages.   ·        Created Web.Config files for setting up of the application by writing database connections.   ·        Developed the required Business Layer of the application using C#.   ·        Involved in building the queries, writing Stored Procedures, functions and triggers.   ·        Involved in setting up and managing the code repository (VSS).   ·        Involved in creating various reports using SSRS.     Environment: ASP.NET, C#, ADO.NET, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Visual Studio 2010, SQL Server 2008/2005, IIS 6.0, Web Services, XML, AJAX, VSS, .NET Framework, MS VISIO (UML), N-Unit Testing Tool, MVC Design Patterns. Education Master's Skills .net, Visual studio, C#, Html, Javascript, Middleware, .net framework 4.5, Wcf, Subversion, Visio, Xml, Xsl, Xslt, Ado, Db2, Access 2010, Ms access, Ms access 2010, Ado.net, Ado.net entity framework, Sql Server, SQL