Sr. Software Engineer Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Sr. Software Engineer - The General Insurance/Vaco Technology Nashville, TN ? 5+ years using core front end technologies (HTML5/CSS3/SASS/JS/jQuery/Bootstrap)  ? 3+ years experience with component-based front end frameworks with an emphasis on React and VueJS  ? 3+ years developing cross-platform mobile applications (React Native/Vue Native/Vue with NativeScript/Cordova/Ionic)  ? 4+ years configuring and using front end build tools (Grunt/Gulp/etc.)  ? 5+ years building full-stack applications and APIs in Ruby (Rails/Sinatra), Python (Django/Flask), Node/Express, and Java/Spring  ? Extensive experience using ElasticSearch for in-application document retrieval and in combination with Logstash/Kibana for application monitoring  ? Git mastery  ? TDD/BDD  ? Extensive experience working in Agile environments and managing development processes with distributed teams Work Experience Sr. Software Engineer The General Insurance/Vaco Technology - Nashville, TN March 2019 to Present Contributed to a proprietary dynamic content framework for constructing robust, extensible consumer-facing web applications that generate React components with data from consumed JSON objects  ? Migrated agent-facing application away from dynamic content system using primarily a Higher Order Component approach; contributed to a library of extensible generic components customized by HOC wrappers  ? Managed analytics integration for the company's primary point-of-sale SPA (GA, Facebook Pixel, and several other 3rd party providers) via a highly customized Google Tag Manager implementation; custom-built a React HOC tracking wrapper for stateless events and customized React Router / Redux middleware to track complex stateful events and simulated page views  ? Tested React/Redux applications using Jest/Enzyme/React Testing Library (unit testing) and Cypress (E2E testing)  ? Coordinated with core application team to migrate and extend analytics functionality from legacy Java application (JSP) to React/Spring Sr. Software Engineer Lincor Solutions - Nashville, TN September 2017 to Present Remote)  ? Implemented new features and maintained legacy features for a highly complex React application used in hospitals throughout the United States, Europe and the Middle East  ? Developed Python/Django backend to support functionality requested by client hospitals  ? Converted a cross-platform React/Cordova entertainment application into a customizable managed care solution capable of consuming FHIR and HL7 messages to display patient data  ? Built a nursing management and patient tracking application in React/Django; this application is now used in throughout one major hospital system and will soon be rolled out too many others in the next year  ? As scrum master, coordinated with the CTO to determine sprint priorities, led sprint retrospective and planning meetings, allocated tasks to other senior developers and QA engineers, and tracked velocity  ? Continued on as an hourly consultant after departing for The General in March 2019 Interactive Developer GS&F - Nashville, TN November 2016 to May 2017 Developed a cross-platform IoT application for North America's largest water heater manufacturer.  ? Refactored existing front end and backend codebases  ? Coordinated daily with non-technical team members, UX designers, and client representatives to create development plans and tickets  ? Managed development process and allocated responsibilities to junior developers  ? Interacted with SalesForce and Ayla Networks APIs to facilitate creation of a secure IoT application for remotely controlling water heater settings  ? Technologies Used: HTML5, SASS, Phonegap, Cordova, Handlebars, CoffeeScript, JavaScript (ES6), Node/NPM, Gulp, jQuery Partner/ Developer Classic Rebellion - Los Angeles, CA May 2016 to November 2016 Joined a Venice-based startup collective to develop a Ruby on Rails web application and a RubyMotion mobile application; managed development of two iOS applications.  ? Took over an existing Rails application and made site updates for LuvTom, a startup in the dating space  ? Project managed iOS and Node development for LuvTom and Yollo, another Venice-based startup  ? Worked with an Austin-based developer on the RubyMotion app for What's Free, a Los Angeles/Austin-based startup  ? Technologies Used: Ruby, Rails, RSPEC, RubyMotion, JavaScript, jQuery, Postgres Developer Metova - Franklin, TN October 2015 to May 2016 Built and contributed to numerous software projects in a fast-paced, competitive agency environment, primarily using Ruby on Rails, Angular, and Ionic.  ? Handled backend development and Ionic mobile development for the Metova Event App, a Rails app for generating iOS/Android applications for use at conferences and other large-scale events; key clients included a Nashville arts publication and numerous state National Guard Association branches  ? Took over development of CUMA, a legacy Rails application used to generate banking apps for over 130 credit unions  ? Served on a larger development team for SEAS, a Rails/Angular child education management application  ? Fixed bugs and contributed code for various other Rails and Angular applications  ? Technologies Used: HTML5, SASS/LESS, Ruby, Rails, RSPEC, Ionic/Cordova, Angular, CoffeeScript, jQuery, Postgres, MySQL, MongoDB Lead Developer TicketTank - Nashville, TN November 2015 to February 2016 Served as development lead for a Ruby on Rails/Angular application that provided dynamic data capture forms used before, during and after live events.  ? Applied music industry expertise to assist in developing an effective problem-solving approach  ? Developed an innovative tool to solve critical deficiencies in gathering fan data, using referral link contests to incentivize sharing and engagement  ? Built a Rails application to handle backend functionality; managed a front end developer and designer  ? Technologies Used: HTML5, SASS, Ruby, Rails, RSPEC, Postgres, Angular CTO On The List - Nashville, TN March 2014 to October 2015 Co-founded a music tech company during the 2014 StartupBus competition; took the company through the Project Music accelerator at the Nashville Entrepreneur Center.  ? Co-founded, contributed code to, and presented the initial version of the application in the finals of the 2014 StartupBus competition in San Antonio, TX  ? Bootstrapped a Rails/Angular web application as part of a talented team of Nashville developers  ? After raising funds and being invited to Project Music, took over as the company's technical lead  ? Developed and documented a Rails API; managed a team of remote mobile developers in India to app completion  ? Thoroughly tested the API, following TDD methodology throughout the development process    Technologies Used: HTML5, SASS, Ruby, Rails, RSPEC, Postgres, Angular Developer iQuantifi - Franklin, TN April 2014 to January 2015 Served on a team developing a Rails/Angular application for a small, agile financial technology startup.  ? Worked directly with the CTO and lead front end engineer to implement new features and bug fixes  ? Extended an existing test suite to ensure complete test coverage; implemented E2E testing of front end features  ? Wrote scripts to generate demo accounts for B2B sales efforts  ? Assisted with development and documentation of a Rails API for integration by in-house developers at financial institutions  ? Worked with lead front end developer to refactor and improve design patterns    Technologies Used: HTML5, SASS, Ruby, Rails, RSPEC, Postgres, Angular Education Nashville Software School September 2013 to March 2014 BA in American Studies Sewanee August 2001 to June 2006 Lincoln College, University of Oxford 2004 to 2005 Skills API, Cucumber, DJANGO, Git, JAVASCRIPT, Linux, Java, Spring