Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - Verizon Wireless • Having 9 years of experience in analysis design, development and implementation of e-commerce applications using Java, J2EE, Struts, Spring, JDBC, JavaScript, Angular JS and ATG Dynamo technologies spanning the entire Software Development Life Cycle.  • Experience in building Micro services using Spring Boot and Spring  • cloud components.  • Expertise in creating web applications using JSP, JSON, HTML, DHTML, XML, XSLT, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX.  • Good at ATG Dynamo B2B Commerce, ATG B2C Commerce, Shopping Cart, Product Catalog, Merchandizing, Catalog, Droplets, Repositories, form handlers, DSP/DSPEL, tag libraries.  • Expertise in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), J2EE Architecture, Core Design Patterns, Object Oriented Analysis and Design/Development Methodologies (OOAD)  • Hands on experience to consume SOAP and REST web services.  • Deft in setting up applications using MAVEN, ANT build scripts and experienced in deploying applications using Servers like Weblogic, JBoss and Apache Tomcat on Windows.  • Hands on experience with Object Oriented Design (OOD) and developing applications  Using UML. Expertise with Iterative development methodologies, designing Class  Diagrams, Sequence diagrams and Use case realization.  • Extensive knowledge on Tele-commerce Business.  • Experience in Eclipse, Intellij and Appcelerator.  • Experience in working with Agile and Waterfall models.  • Experience in debugging production issues by executing unix commands in putty.  • Transition effortlessly and adapt readily to ever changing technologies.  • Flexibility and ability to balance multiple projects at one time in a fast-paced environment.  • Hands-on experience with Application servers and Web servers and a wide variety of development tools.  • An effective communicator with honed analytical, logical and problem-solving abilities with good listening, presentation and Intrapersonal Skills.  • Exceptionally well organized, with strong work ethics and willingness to work hard to achieve objectives.  • Possess good project planning skills like work break down, task scheduling, technical design and manage project schedules and deliverables.  • Excellent team Player with good Technical, Analytical and Interpersonal skills. Work Experience Senior Software Developer Verizon Wireless February 2018 to Present Location: Alpharetta, Georgia    Project Description:  Verizon Wireless operates America's largest 4G LTE network and most reliable 3G network. We also provide converged communications, information and ntertainment services over America's most advanced fiber-optic network and deliver integrated business solutions to customers in more than 150 countries.  B2B is an applications/channel to provide the commerce functionality for all in-store operations for all larger business customers. The main users of B2B channel are business sales representatives assisting customers with their purchase. In B2B world business sales representatives will go to client location and get the quotation and process these lager orders from b2b stores.  This commerce functionality includes new or existing customers. The purchase paths include ordering a device with or without wireless service. The purchase path also includes, buying accessories and home services like Time Warner, and Comcast. The business sales team brings in the large orders to process it through the B2B application.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzing & Designing the B2B ordering flow.  • Worked on browse services creating json for device and accessory pages.  • Implemented add commerce items to cart functionality like add device to cart, add plan to cart, add features to cart and add shipping address to cart.  • Worked on order review api's to fetch and display all commerce items to the cart.  • Co-ordinate with different teams and worked on payment type PO redesign.  • Attend the grooming sessions to groom the stories with business team.  • Logs analyzing using Kibana.  • To track the defects using the JIRA board and work on those defects.  • Test plans and Unit Testing using Junit and Mockito.    Operating System: Windows 10  Languages: Core Java, Spring Restful services, Microservices using Eureka registry  & ZUUL API gateway, Netflix Hystrix, Zuul , Feign client, swagger, Tomcat 8.5, Git OneStash (repository), Spring Config server, Spring cloud  Tools: Eclipse, Intellij IDEA, HP-QC, Accurev, SQL Developer, Winscp, SOAP UI, Postman, Confluence, ServiceNow, Jira, Kibana Software Developer TeskSoft Systems Inc May 2016 to Present Senior Software Developer Verizon Wireless August 2018 to January 2019 Location: Alpharetta, Georgia    Project Description:  Verizon M2M (Machine-to-Machine) operations refers to data communication between machines. Vip portal supports a wide variety of features/services like Batch services, Fulfillments and Activations, Account management, Lookups, Status, Usage and Change/Update to list a few. These services cater wide variety of B2B consumers like NETACE, Telematics, NetSense etc to name a few. VIP M2M portal processes bulk orders by spread sheet submissions up to 500 orders in each batch or clients can also use the API Services for processing single order.    Responsibilities:-    • Developed the functionalities for various modules and Restful services using Core Java and Spring framework.  • Created xsds and service calls based on the request.  • Prepare Impact analysis document for the new functionalities proposed.  • Involved in scoping for future development opportunity.  • Prepared the on boarding document for Existing framework.  • Involved in writing Unit Tests.  • Used Accurev version control software.  • Coordinating with business to design functionality & gather requirements.  • Used JDBC to implement DAO pattern for database access.  • Customizing the framework to meet all the business requirements.  • Doing a peer review of the deliverables, fixing internal QA defects and also documenting the defects.  • Involved in finalizing requirements with POS Business.  • Tracking incident tickets in ServiceNow.    Operating System: Windows 10  Languages: Core Java, Spring Restful services, Oracle Commerce 11.1(ATG), Weblogic 12.1.2, Oracle 12  Tools: Eclipse, Intellij IDEA, HP-QC, Accurev, SQL Developer, Winscp, SOAP UI, Postman, Confluence, ServiceNow, Jira, Kibana Senior Software Developer Verizon Wireless - Alpharetta, GA May 2018 to August 2018 Project Description:  Omni B2B POS application is used to support larger business customers in Verizon Wireless. Earlier days the representative has to visit the client location to take the client order details. Once rep is back in office, then rep has to key in the order details in B2B-desktop application. Most importantly it reduced the Repetitive work with on-spot application access. As part of this project along with enabling Ipad access, we added many more capabilities to the legacy application.  Responsibilities:-  • Working in production support to help the reps to process the orders and look into any escalated issues.  • Using CMIS to tracking the production tickets.  • Coordinate with various teams and raise support ticket for all issues, analyze root cause and assist in efficient resolution of all production processes.  • Communicate with different teams to understand the application flow for resolving tickets.  • On monthly basis support production ER's.  • On daily basis send the production tickets status to stakeholders.  • Attending the top 20 tickets status call to update the status on weekly basis.  • Find the design gaps in B2B application and fixing those gaps.    Operating System: Windows 10  Languages: Core Java, Spring Restful services, Oracle Commerce 11.1(ATG), Weblogic 12.1.2, Oracle 12  Tools: Eclipse, Intellij IDEA, HP-QC, Accurev, SQL Developer, Winscp, SOAP UI, Postman, Confluence, ServiceNow , Kibana, JIRA Senior Software Developer Verizon Wireless - Alpharetta, GA January 2017 to May 2018 Project Description:  Verizon B2B IoT Solutions enables rep to select eligible categories, and then provision the hardware, accessory, software, and professional services products associated with the category as applicable / available. This flow is enabled only for CLEU customers whose ECPD is enabled for these categories. The order will then go into a SPOC approval needed (just like other existing product orders). However, if this is an initial order for the customer of that category type and T&C acceptance is required, we will show both SPOC approval as well as T&C on the same customer approval page. Once approved, the order will then be released for fulfillment and provisioning.    Responsibilities:-  • Created new UI pages for CLEU customers to select IOT categories.  • Rendered and validated IoT solutions by calling MCS APIs.  • Allowed to add Hardwares/ softwares to the order.  • Created Spoc approval page for the selected criteria.  • Customizing the framework to meet all the business requirements.  • Prepare Impact analysis document for the new functionalities proposed.  • Developed IoT Solutions using Core Java, Oracle Commerce 11.1(ATG), and Spring framework.  • Involved in writing Unit Tests.  • Used Accurev to handle the separation between code versions from existing Project.  • Coordinating with business to Design functionality & gather requirements.  • Doing a peer review of the deliverables, fixing internal QA defects and also documenting the defects.  • Involved in finalizing requirements with POS Business.    Operating System: Windows 10  Languages: Core Java, Spring Restful services, Oracle Commerce 11.1(ATG), Weblogic 12.1.2, Oracle 12  Tools: Eclipse, Intellij IDEA, HP-QC, Accurev, SQL Developer, Winscp, SOAP UI, Postman, Confluence, ServiceNow, Kibana, JIRA Senior Software Developer Verizon Wireless - Alpharetta, GA June 2016 to December 2017 Project Description:  Business to Business (B2B) project aims to process bulk order. With B2B project, customer will be able to place orders with up to 49 devices (Iphone, Samsung) and their corresponding plans, features and accessories in a single order. This project basically targets better customer experience where customer usually place order with large number of devices and their corresponding services. This project also supports new Verizon devices called hum device.    Responsibilities:-  • Involved in creating frame work using restful webservices and Spring for large number of order processing and its corresponding order and payment processing.  • Prepare Impact analysis document for the new functionalities proposed.  • Involved in scoping for future development opportunity.  • Developed the code, code review and as well as fix the defect.  • Implemented front end functionality using Angular JS.  • Work with business analyst to make sure project has been implemented properly and Identifying the requirement gap.  • Prepared the on boarding document for framework.  • Involved in code review and Unit Testing.  • Used Accurev to handle the Separation between code versions from existing Project.  • Coordinating with functional team related to Design part & Keep Track of all changes.  • Used JDBC to implement DAO pattern to for database access.  • Used prepared statements and callable statements to implement batch insertions and access stored procedures.  • Analyzing the impact of the user interface changes to the new technology on the existing web application initiated by the client to consider factors such as portability, compatibility with existing business, or usability.    Operating System: Windows 10  Languages: Core Java, Spring Restful services, Oracle Commerce 11.1(ATG), Weblogic 12.1.2, Oracle 12  Tools: Eclipse, Intellij IDEA, HP-QC, Accurev, SQL Developer, Winscp, SOAP UI, Postman, Confluence, ServiceNow, Kibana, JIRA    PROJECT 6: Sprint1.0 Development (Authenticated Upgrades) Developer and Onsite Coordinator Sprint April 2015 to May 2016 Location: Restion, Virginia    Project Description:  Sprint is a one of the large telecommunication holding company that provides wireless services to different kind of users throughout USA. This project is entirely providing wireless offers to different organizations which are in association with Sprint including small business companies/organizations like AOL, CVS, and Accenture etc. Every organization is going to be treated as custom aisles. These custom aisles register with Sprint to provide wireless discounts for their employees. Basically this application allows customers to buy new wireless devices or upgrade their old devices for best discounted prices through their employee accessible intranet. This application was entirely developed with all enriched frameworks including struts, spring including plain JDBC, integrated with ecommerce complexity    Responsibilities:-  • Developing and supporting the custom aisles application using customized Framework, which involves Struts and Spring Framework.  • Worked on both frontend and backend as a Full stack developer. Most of the experience on JAVA API's.  • Designed, developed and maintained a three-tiered J2EE Web application for the Custom aisles project.  • Developed Struts Actions and action mappings for fetching information from and delegating request to the service layer.  • Hands on experience on AJAX which updates web pages asynchronously by exchanging  small amounts of data with the server behind the scenes.  • Used J2EE design patterns like MVC & Singleton Pattern.  • Involved as point of contact for end-users and developers. Responsible for gathering the requirements and based on the session prepare the design document.  • Used Log4j for logging across the application.  • Involved in taking care of high priority issues for every release.  • Responsible for migration of web-based application to production servers. Handled  updates and enhancements throughout testing phase and support for Application while in production.    Operating System Windows XP  Languages Java, J2EE, Struts, Spring Framework, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, AJAX, JSP Tag Libraries, Java Script Libraries, HTML, XML, XSLT  Database Oracle  Tools Eclipse, Tortoise SVN Client, SQL Developer    PROJECT 5: Sprint1.0 Development (Frontend Plan Eligibility) IT Analyst Tata Consultancy Services 2010 to May 2016 Developer and Onsite Coordinator Sprint September 2014 to April 2015 Location: Restion, Virginia    Project Description:  Sprint is a one of the large telecommunication holding company that provides wireless services to different kind of users throughout USA. This project is entirely providing wireless offers to different organizations which are in association with Sprint including small business companies/organizations like AOL, CVS, and Accenture etc. Every organization is going to be treated as custom aisles. These custom aisles register with Sprint to provide wireless discounts for their employees. Basically this application allows retrieve upcharge for the new plan and existing plan using EAI webservices. This application was entirely developed with all enriched frameworks including struts, spring including plain JDBC, integrated with ecommerce complexity    Responsibilities:-  • Developing and supporting the custom aisles application using customized Framework, which involves Struts and Spring.  • Consumed EAI web services to retrieve upcharge for new plan or existing plan using tiered J2EE Web application for the Custom aisles project.  • Developed Struts Actions and action mappings for fetching information from and delegating request to the service layer.  • Used J2EE design patterns like MVC & Singleton Pattern.  • Involved as point of contact for end-users and developers. Responsible for gathering the requirements and based on the session prepare the design document.  • Used Log4j for logging across the application.  • Involved in taking care of high priority issues for every release.  • Responsible for migration of web-based application to production servers. Handled  updates and enhancements throughout testing phase and support for Application while in production.    Operating System Windows XP  Languages Java, J2EE, Struts, Spring Framework, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, AJAX, JSP Tag Libraries, Java Script Libraries, HTML, XML, XSLT  Database Oracle  Tools Eclipse, Tortoise SVN Client, SQL Developer Developer and Onsite Coordinator Sprint March 2013 to August 2014 Location: Restion, Virginia    Project Description:  Sprint is an e-Commerce On-line application which allows customer to purchase a Package which includes selection of a device, Plan, Services or Add-ons and Accessories. After selection, user will be allowed to place a purchase order by entering contact and other related details. A successfully placed Order will go to the Order Management System (FAST, OVM) and then to Order Fulfilment System. T8S interacts with Billing System (Ensemble) through API calls for account related information. The Shop application communicates with Coverage DB to get the Network coverage details for a given zip code, Bazaar Voice for all the Rating and review information of Sprint products.    Responsibilities:  • Analysis the business of the client and their existing system.  • Prepared high level solution document.  • Prepared low level design document.  • Developing and code reviewing.  • Developed the web pages using Java ATG 11, Oracle, JQuery, CSS, Ajax, Html 5  • Made extensive use of ATG Components and many reusable Custom Tags  • Prepared various Test Cases to fix the bugs and ensure the application error-free  • Designing Catalog and Order Repositories.  • Implemented the web services to integrate with back end office systems  • Used JavaScript & JQuery for Client Side Validation to block unauthorized or malicious content in application forms  • Worked on weekly basis releases.  • Successfully managed a team of developers maintaining the deadlines and project deliverables    Operating System Windows XP  Languages Java, J2EE, JavaScript, ATG, Web Service Technologies  Database Oracle  Tools Eclipse, Tortoise SVN Client, SQL Developer  Special Software ATG Developer Sprint November 2012 to February 2013 Location: Bangalore, India    Project Description:  Sprint is an e-Commerce On-line application which allows customer to purchase a Package which includes selection of a device, Plan, Services or Add-ons and Accessories. After selection, user will be allowed to place a purchase order by entering contact and other related details. A successfully placed Order will go to the Order Management System (FAST, OVM) and then to Order Fulfilment System. T8S interacts with Billing System (Ensemble) through API calls for account related information. The Shop application communicates with Coverage DB to get the Network coverage details for a given zip code, Bazaar Voice for all the Rating and review information of Sprint products.    Responsibilities:  • Analysis the business of the client and their existing system.  • Prepared high level solution document.  • Prepared low level design document.  • Developed the web pages to allow users to upgrade devices with discounts.  • Made extensive use of ATG Components and many reusable Custom Tags  • Prepared various Test Cases to fix the bugs and ensure the application error-free  • Implemented Ajax handlers to integrate with back end office systems  • Worked on weekly basis releases.    Operating System Windows XP  Languages Java, J2EE, Java Script, ATG, Web Service Technologies  Database Oracle  Tools Eclipse, Tortoise SVN Client, SQL Developer  Special Software ATG Developer Sprint - Reston, VA January 2012 to November 2012 Project Description:  Sprint is an e-Commerce On-line application which allows customer to purchase a Package which includes selection of a device, Plan, Services or Add-ons and Accessories. After selection, user will be allowed to place a purchase order by entering contact and other related details. A successfully placed Order will go to the Order Management System (FAST, OVM) and then to Order Fulfilment System. T8S interacts with Billing System (Ensemble) through API calls for account related information. The Shop application communicates with Coverage DB to get the Network coverage details for a given zip code, Bazaar Voice for all the Rating and review information of Sprint products.    Responsibilities:  • Analysis the business of the client and their existing system.  • Prepared high level solution document.  • Prepared low level design document.  • Developed digital fact tags.  • Consumed webservices to load device wall and device detail pages.  • Prepared various Test Cases to fix the bugs and ensure the application error-free  • Worked on weekly basis releases.    Operating System Windows XP  Languages Java, J2EE, Java Script, Struts, Web Service Technologies  Database Oracle  Tools Eclipse, Tortoise SVN Client, SQL Developer  Special Software ATG    PROJECT 1: BORIS Developer Deutsche bank - Bengaluru, Karnataka February 2010 to December 2011 India    Project Description:  Deutsche bank is based out of Frankfurt Germany having operations in over 72 countries. The bank has data base systems IDMS & DBI for their operations. BORIS project is to replace these 2 systems & integrate with TCS BaNCS. In the current phase we successfully replaced the systems in two countries. The scope of this project is to replace the systems in 50 other countries in the coming 5 years.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement Analysis and Understanding the requirements of the client and act as a sole functional resource  • Involved in the construction of the application as per the design document  • Developed Java, J2EE, Struts Actions and action mappings for fetching information from and delegating request to the service layer.  • Involved in finding and tracking defects  • Involved in analysis for the root cause of defects    Operating System Windows XP  Languages Java J2EE, Struts, XML, HTML, PL/SQL  Tools Eclipse, Tortoise SVN Client, SQL Developer Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering Nagarjuna University Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Intellij idea, Spring, Jboss, jquery, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Jdbc, Mysql, Oracle, Html, Javascript, Xml, Xslt, Soap, Ajax, Css Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    • J2EE Technologies: Java, JSP, Servlets, JDBC.  • Framework: Struts, ATG Commerce, Spring,Spring Boot, Microservices  • Web Technologies: JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, DHTML, XML, XSLT, Ajax, CSS  • Databases: Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g , MySQL 4.x/5.x,  • IDE Tools: Eclipse, Intellij IDEA 2017.3  • Servers: Apache Tomcat , JBOSS, WebLogic  • Operating Systems: UNIX, Linux, Windows 7 and Windows 10  • Webservices: REST, SOAP