Lead Software Developer Lead <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Software Developer - Yourmembership Tampa, FL Lead Software Developer with 4+ years of experience in software industry with knowledge  of complete product lifecycle through requirements, analysis, data modeling, design, development,  testing, documentation, and delivery of projects. Possesses responsible leadership qualities. Work Experience Lead Software Developer Yourmembership November 2018 to Present Automated the Email delivery system using AWS SES, SQS, SNS and handled the bounces and complaints achieved must faster, reliable and scalable email system.  ? Created analytical dashboard for Email Campaigns using SES email feedbacks on Click, Open, Delivery, Bounce, Complaint rates, which helped customers to get insights on their campaigns.  ? Designed and developed Drag and Drop component-based markup editor for email content.  ? Analyzed IIS logs and found the common areas to optimize using Pandas, NumPy, Python. Later  optimized the average application load time by 25% using code refactoring, SQL optimizations.  ? Automating the build and deploy process using Jenkins, Docker, Docker Swarm.  ? Worked with different teams in making critical decisions using data-driven approach.  ? Mentor development, QA members in design, testing, code reviews, best practices. Senior Software Engineer Yourmembership February 2017 to October 2018 Implemented a custom OAuth 2.0 Identity management server, helped customers to securely  share their data with third party applications.  ? Migration of on-premises web application environment to AWS cloud involving file storage  migration to S3, centralizing session using Redis, infrastructure setup on AWS Cloud.  ? Experience with AWS services like S3, Elastic Cache- Redis, Elastic Search, EC2, CloudFront, EBS, SQS, SES, Route53, Lambda.  ? Used CDN solution - CloudFront for serving S3 static files, which reduced network latency. Software Engineer Yourmembership January 2016 to February 2017 Worked on Cross Product Integration using REST API, Angular4 and tested using NUnit, Jasmine.  ? Leveraged Redis Caching, Message Bus architectures (used RedisMQ, AWS SNS services) Software Intern eGourmet Solutions(3rd Party Logistics company) June 2015 to December 2015 NET Web Application development consuming API2Cart API, using MSSQL server 2012 Database.  ? Designed and Implemented a custom tool for XML to CSV conversion as per required specification.  ? Migration of On-Premise WSS 3.0 site to SharePoint 2013 on Azure cloud and to create custom  reports in SharePoint site with DevExpress tools. Graduate Teaching Assistant UMKC January 2015 to May 2015 Teaching of Lab Tasks of Advanced Software Engineering concepts like HTML, JavaScript, NodeJS, Rest Service, usage of external rest services, AJAX Software Developer Prestoo Software Private Limited July 2013 to May 2014 Developed and developed a game prototype for teaching physics to students using Unity 3D. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Missouri - Kansas City, KS December 2015 Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Systems Engineering Andhra University College of Engineering - Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh May 2013 Skills C#, Docker, Git, Hadoop, Hive, Javascript, Bootstrap, Json, Python, Numpy, Pandas, Xml, Rest, Mysql, Sql, Mongodb, Hadoop, Redis, Web services, Angularjs Links https://github.com/atmc9