Software Developer (Android) <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> (Android) Software Developer (Android) - VERTRAX INC East Haven, CT Outstanding Android/Java programmer with more than 6 years of experience developing customized applications integrating the latest in-web technologies into feature-rich web and mobile solutions. Skilled at building robust, versatile mobile applications. Adept at translating requirements into actionable application designs and strategies. Skilled at utilizing leading-edge methodologies and technologies into customer solutions. Able to research new technologies to implement their features into development projects. Strong analyst, team player, and troubleshooter able to swiftly identify and eliminate the source of technical problems. Well-versed in complete SDLC processes developing web/mobile applications using AGILE-SCRUM. Work Experience Software Developer (Android) VERTRAX INC - New Haven, CT July 2015 to Present New Haven, Connecticut, US • Jul 2015 - Till Now  Company developing real-time mobile logistics for Retail propane and Fuel industry    Software Developer (Android)  Developed native Android applications as well as the back-end server and web portals, with which the mobile applications interact for fuel delivery system.    Projects:  • WellTrax: Worked for mobile logistics application that tracks drivers state (starting, driving to lease site, working on lease site, driving to oil-depot, complete load) to pick up fuel and deliver it to depot, sent via REST APIs. Interfaced with several Bluetooth printers for drivers to print tickets. Worked on background services and broadcasts to notify driver of changes to load(s). Built ticket API using Oauth2, Audit trail using Javers, Built add-in for Geotab using intent-filters.  • Technologies: Java, Android Studio, Android Devices, GIT, SQL Management Studio, iReport Software Developer NEW IT VENTURE PVT LTD - Kathmandu, NP June 2014 to October 2014 Contributed to development of IPTV-based software projects, with involvement in API research, development of parsing algorithms using multiple API calls, and implementation of functionality to present fetched data to the application's user interface.    Projects:  • World On Demand: Implemented a project to study and deploy the YouTube data API v3 for YouTube-Plus, a module of World On Demand IPTV system, with JSON to parse information from the YouTube channel server - with features including playlist fetching and rendering on list view, and one-click loading of all playlist videos and descriptions in grid view. Developed UI to hold channel, playlist and songs' pictures and details from dynamic content from YouTube API, capable of playing videos from native YouTube player.  • Technologies: Java, Eclipse-Android SDK, AVD, Set Top Boxes, Android Devices, GIT Software Developer MDEV SOLUTIONS PVT LTD - Kathmandu, NP January 2014 to June 2014 Kathmandu, Nepal • Jan 2014 - Jun 2014  Global U.S. based healthcare company delivering exceptional services in healthcare and education projects.    Software Developer  Designed a basic LMS capable of reading SCORM courses, based on research into diverse SCORM documents. Created a strategy for mobile-SCORM to allow course viewing from the mobile Android app.    Projects:  • SCORM-LMS: Delivered a SCORM (Sharable Content Object Reference Model)-compliant LMS (Learning Management System), with features including uploading, extracting, and displaying SCORM zip courses for SCORM 1.2 and 2004. Built an XML-parser using DOM parsing to parse manifest file of SCORM courses to locate and display course resources. Wrote server side APIs that return JSON data that mobile SCORM app can call. Worked with and supervised junior programmers for Android app development.  • Technologies: Sublime Editor, WAMP Server, Dreamweaver, CodeIgniter Software Developer BAJRA TECHNOLOGIES - Kathmandu, NP January 2013 to January 2014 Leveraged research into technologies to design, develop, and upgrade both new and existing applications, including a custom SongConverter application for YouSpin to enable streaming through oflaDemo. Restructured the database model for greater performance. Designed a server-side user chat world filter. Identified and eliminated software errors. Eliminated a code flaw on the mobile app to free up server resources and resolve the server checking issue. Testing various applications on multiple platforms.    Projects:  • YouSpin: Worked for a virtual DJ system capable of calculating user votes from a mobile app to determine the order of an automatically generated playlist. Used REST to implement the Java server, with music streaming via the RED5 OflaDemo application. Studied and fixed mobile app for performance. Built custom SongConverter.  • Ikringloop: Worked on Ikringloop, a free cycling app for android smart phones that encourages sustainability by facilitating reuse, capable of displaying collection points to user that are within 10km range of user on map and custom list. Designed and implemented user interface for Collection Points and Home Screen with badges to indicate notifications.  • Infochurn, Yatri, Mabiz: Evaluated existing company applications to study project flow and conduct tests under varying circumstances resulting in an optimized approach and simpler UI.  • Technologies: Eclipse-Android SDK, XAMPP server, AVD, Redmine Education Bachelor of Engineering in Software Engineering in Software Engineering Gandaki College of Engineering & Science 2012 Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA Skills Android, Git, MYSQL, CSS Links https://np.linkedin.com/in/ashoksubedi