Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Bean Station, TN • Operating Systems: Windows Server, VMware ESXi, Linux Redhat, Unix AIX, Windows 7, 8, 10, Mac OS X.  • VMware OS ESXi Virtual Server deployments including physical to virtual server (P2V) conversions, vCenter, vSphere & view administrator, including maintenance of virtual desktop deployment.  • MS Windows Servers: 20+ years experience building, configuring and maintaining versions NT 3.51, 2000, 2003, 2003R2, 2008, 2008R2, 2012R2, 2016  • MS SQL Server: Installed, configured and maintained versions 2000, 2005, 2008/2008 R2  • Administration: Skilled in Active Directory, managing several thousand user permissions, rights, roles and access, plus GPO’s.  • Software: Skilled in supporting common Windows software, MS Office Suite, backup solutions.  • Languages: Strong usage of Powershell. Moderate usage of SQL, C#/VB/ASP .NET, Perl, HTML, PHP, Javascript, XML.  • Hardware: Experienced in troubleshooting and replacing all common hardware components including Servers, workstations, SAN, routers, switches and more.  • Storage: SAN, disk arrays from Dell, HP.   • Networking: Server and Routing knowledge, TCP/IP, VPN, CAT 5,5E,6, Fiber Channel, LAN, WAN, punch down blocks.  • Backups: Installed, configured & administered Daily/Monthly Backups using Symantec Backup Exec, Veeam Backup Replication, and Commvault Backup  • Monitoring: Skilled in monitoring entire enterprise applications, networks, and servers. Work Experience Systems Administrator Walters State Community College - Morristown, TN 2014 to Present Walters State Community College consists of four campuses totaling approximately 480 Academic staffand 6,980 degree-seeking, commuting students. The primary campus is located in Morristown, while satellite branches are found in Sevierville, Greeneville, and New Tazewell    Key projects: migrated approximately 40,000 accounts from on-premise MS Exchange to MS Exchange online office 365 cloud based.     Took part in the creation of Powershell scripts automating the AD new account process for academic staff and students, along with the licensing and creation of office 365 mailboxes.     The use of Powershell scripting to continue enhancing the department, through monitoring, integration, reporting, etc...    VMware ESX 6.5 enterprise edition. Installed, configured and maintained. Currently 99 percent virtual environment    SAN’s: Installed, configured and maintained    MS Windows Server: Installed, configured and maintained versions 2003, 2003R2, 2008, 2008R2, 2012R2, 2016    Linux: Installed & configured Redhat/CentOS 6 & 7     Stay knowledgeable of current trends and technologies. Design, purchase, and upgrade, server infrastructure.     Help prepare yearly budget.  Systems Administrator Morristown Utility Systems - Morristown, TN 2012 to 2014 • Morristown Utilities Systems provides the community with Electric, Water, Cable, Internet, and Phone services. Morristown Utilities Systems also supports the Local County Government, Courthouse, Justice department, Sherriff’s department, County Highway and Garbage department, along with the Morristown Hamblen Library.   • Key Projects   Morristown Utility Systems: Setup up new offices, in two locations, with networking, wireless, and phones. Main Office: Virtual server deployments including physical to virtual server (P2V) conversions, WSUS server used to manage deployment of Microsoft updates, and implemented a print server.  County: upgraded the core infrastructure through the utilization of VLANs and a new firewall; migrated Windows 2008 R2 domain controller to a more robust server, and installed a public and private wireless network system.   • Managed 400+ user environments through Active Directory for adds, deletes and changes of permissions, access roles, security and all user parameters through group policies and individual policies.  • VMware ESX 5.5: Virtual Server deployments including physical to virtual (P2V) conversions, vCenter, vSphere & view administrator, including virtual desktop deployment (VDI).   • MS Windows Server : Installed, configured and maintained versions 2003, 2003 R2, 2008, 2008 R2.  • MS SQL Server: Installed, configured and maintained versions 2005, 2008 R2.    • MS Exchange Server: Responsible for all configuration and maintenance of Exchange 2010. Daily duties included adds, deletes and changes to user mailboxes.  • Linux: Installed & configured Redhat 6.  • Client OS: Windows XP, Windows Vista, Windows 7, Windows 8, Mac OS X  • Installed and maintained other enterprise applications such as Veeam Backup and Replication. McAfee web proxy, web filter and antivirus.   • Troubleshoot all enterprise hardware including: servers, routers, switches, SAN, printers faxes and cabling.  • Supervised one technician on a daily basis. Responsibilities included all levels of support: virtual desktops, thin clients, PC’s, laptops, printers, fax machines, servers, networking functionality and software applications.  • Implemented new technologies including: Dell EqualLogic PS4000 SAN, Ubiquiti wireless centralized infrastructure, Ubiquiti wireless bridges, and VMware Virtualization.    • Experience working with many vendors, HP, Dell, Cisco, VMware. Systems Administrator HealthStar Physician - Morristown, TN 2004 to 2012 • Key Projects: Domain Controller, MS Exchange Server, and Blackberry server deployment, Interface server used to integrate athenaheatlh EMR software with Lab and PACS systems, WSUS server used to manage deployment of Microsoft updates, print and file server used as centralize printing and file storage at main office for better management, SAN storage deployment, Virtual Server deployments including physical to virtual (P2V) conversions, and branch office relocation and new openings.  • Managed 400+ user environments through Active Directory for adds, deletes and changes of permissions, access roles, security and all user parameters through group policies and individual policies.  • VMware ESX 4.1: Virtual Server deployments including physical to virtual (P2V) conversions.  • MS Windows Server: Installed, configured and maintained versions 2003, 2003R2, 2008, 2008 R2.  • MS SQL Server: Installed, configured and maintained version 2000. Created custom reports using SQL and Crystal Reports.    • MS Exchange Server: Responsible for all configuration and maintenance of Exchange 2003. Daily duties included adds, deletes and changes to user mailboxes.  • Client OS: Windows XP, Windows Vista, Windows 7.  • Windows Enterprise applications such as MS SharePoint Service, Symantec Backup Exec.  • Troubleshoot all enterprise hardware including: servers, routers, switches, SAN, printers faxes and cabling.  • I was responsible for 2 pc technicians on a daily basis. Responsibilities included all level 2 and 3 support: PC’s, laptops, printers, fax machines, servers and networking functionality. We were also responsible for all new branch office openings and moves. Everything from desktops to networking equipment, we handled all technical aspects of the project.  • Installed and maintained critical business servers and applications that consistently made the firm more productive, cost efficient, secure and reliable.     • Implemented new technologies including: HP MSA2000 SAN, Ruckus wireless centralized infrastructure, VMware Virtualization.    • Experience with many vendors, HP, Dell, Extreme Networks, Cisco, VMware. Information Technology Manager Davies Molding, LLC - Carol Stream, IL 1992 to 2003 • Key Projects: Microsoft PDC and BDC servers, MS Exchange server deployment, print and file servers used as centralize printing and file storage.  • Managed 50+ user environments through User Management for adds, deletes and changes of permissions, access roles, security and all user parameters through group policies and individual policies.  • MS Windows Server: Installed, configured and maintained versions 3.51, NT 4.0, 2000. servers included a PDC, BDC and Oracle Server.    • MS Exchange Server: Responsible for all configuration and maintenance of Exchange v5.5. Daily duties included adds, deletes and changes to user mailboxes.  • AS/400 DB2 System: Ensured that vital system was monitored and maintained. Generated and maintained all query functionality for reporting purposes.  • Client OS: Windows 95, Windows 98 SE  • Managed and tracked all networking and desktop assets. Ensured all requirements were Business Software Alliance compliant. Provided upper management with department financial plans on current and future business requirements. Managed all budgets for Information Systems.  • Troubleshoot all enterprise hardware including: servers, switches, printers, faxes and cabling.  • Began with company as a COBOL programmer on an IBM RS/6000 UNIX (AIX) system. Converted screens from a Mapics ERP system to work with the Unix based ProfitKey ERP software. Created financial reports for Controller and supporting accounting staff (Monthly sales, Cost of Goods sold) Developed reports for all aspects or manufacturing & inventory management (finished goods, bill of material, work in process, inventory on hand) Education Master's in Computer Information Systems Bellevue University - Bellevue, NE Bachelor's in Organizational Management Tusculum College - Greeneville, TN Skills Vmware, System Administrator, Active Directory, Linux, System Admin