Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Seattle, WA Work Experience Systems Administrator DomainTools LLC - Seattle, WA June 2015 to Present Tackled a complex and varied IT infrastructure, leaning Gentoo Linux, Hadoop, MariaDB, MongoDB, and OpenVZ (to name a few) and helped move aging legacy systems to more recent distributions, new hardware, and more modern architectures.  Automated MongoDB cluster creation to simplify testing of multiple configuration options on limited hardware.  Performed the research and testing on a shift in hardware platform, getting HP blade chassis to work with various SAS-based array options, FibreChannel SANs and 10GbE networking for future growth.  Troubleshooting complex workflows written in Perl, Python, and Bash, ensuring data flow and processing timeliness.  Networking admin and security on Cisco, Dell and Linux (IPtables), plus OpenVPN configuration on Linux and Mac endpoints.  Contributed to Ansible implementation and shepherding of systems.  Supported custom data retrieval systems, migrating several to new hardware, Ansible-provisioned and updated versions of software.  Participated in on-call rotation, DDoS mitigation, firewall management, incident response, system integration and development troubleshooting. Director of IT Enterprise Infrastructure Burton - Burlington, VT November 2006 to Present Responsibilities    We run the systems that run the business. That's what I did when I started as the Senior Linux Admin in 2006, growing to lead the team that keeps the business systems healthy, connected, and responsive. I manage budget spending, planning and negotiations. I lead the strategic discussions to guide us into the future. I interface with various units of the business to understand their directions, to hear their problems and struggles, and I incorporate that into my teams' immediate, near-term and long-term priorities.    Accomplishments    Worked closely with application developers, SAP BASIS administrators, Oracle DBAs, Network administrators to stabilize and optimize the SAP ERP, BW, CRM and Enterprise Portal environment after a re-implementation.    Researched and cooperatively led the charge with my fellow systems administrators to implement a virtualization infrastructure using VMware on Dell blade systems and NetApp storage. This project reduced our cost structure, our physical technology footprint by 30% and our power consumption by 50% over three years.    Led a campaign to improve the internal perception IT Help Desk. This involved both a steady (but visibly smart) increase investment in IT hardware, and a passionate focus on the user experience. We adapted new technologies to handle the changing mix of user machines (more Mac, less Windows), and explored new ways of working with tablets, bring-your-own-device, and collaborative software tools.    Skills Used    Leadership, first and foremost, beginning with leading-from-within to guide stability improvements and dramatic reductions in the cost structure for IT Infrastructure. Leveraged experience with large environments to implement and refine best practices which properly fit the scale, budget and culture. Information Technology Specialist United States Patent and Trademark Office - Alexandria, VA June 2005 to October 2006 Systems Administrator Titan - Arlington, VA July 2001 to June 2005 Systems Administrator RX.com - Austin, TX October 2000 to May 2001 Systems Administrator Philips Semiconductor - San Antonio, TX August 1993 to October 2000 Education Regional Leadership Forum Society for Information Management - Boston, MA 2009 to 2010 BS in Computer Science Texas State University - San Marcos, TX 1989 to 1993 Skills System Administration (UNIX, Linux, HP-UX, Solaris, AIX), Virtualization (VMware, Xen), SAN/NAS (EMC, NetApp), Project Management, Personnel Management, Performance Management, Helpdesk Service Management, Budget Management, Budget Planning, Strategic Planning, Personnel Development, Succession Planning