Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Las Vegas, NV Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Kaiser Permanente - Pasadena, CA April 1997 to December 2014 Kaiser Permanente - Pasadena, CA - Los Angeles, CA - West Los Angeles, CA Facilities   April 1997 to December 2014    August 2006 – December 2014 – CPM System Administrator (Common Provider Master)     Process new request for resource codes from: Medical Staff Office/Credentialing, Pharmacy, New Employee Orientation, and Department Administrators. Maintain CPM records by checking start dates for all new providers. Work on Monthly Termination/Resignation list from MSO. Maintained all area sub-departments/modules in the CPM system. The lead contact person for adding and updating all new Residents, Fellows, and Chief Residents. Updated and verified all graduating Residents to Per diem status. Verify Human Resource types for transfers as well as job codes. Complete all new IPR (employees that need a resource code) reports. Process monthly MD payroll error list (MD DUMP LIST). Merge multiple CPM resource ID’s. Monitor and update weekly SAR reports from SCPMG Payroll Discrepancy Report, MSOC Discrepancy Report, IPR Update Report, and HRIS (Human Resource) Payroll Discrepancy Report. Notify all of the downstream departments for example LMS (Lab), KLIS (Kaiser Legacy System), RIS (X-ray), DTS (Dictation), Call Center, E-Script (Pharmacy), Communications (PBS), Business Systems, E-referral coordinator, HealthConnect, of new providers to ensure they are added to the prospective systems. Add all new providers to the KLIS system. Work closely with MSO and Physician Payroll to validate new provider’s approval status. Coordinate with Patient Panel Project Manager to update patient panel status monthly. Validate information within CPM for any new systems. Extract data from various databases for report generation. Generates and develop new ad hoc reports and databases to address specific business needs. Recommend improvements to permanent reports. Serves as consultant to department staff in interpreting data. Serves as technical consultant on new products and technology. Acts as interface between systems group and end users. Monitors data quality and integrity. Delivers training for end users on system. I attend the following meetings monthly: Compliance Operations Committee, Change Management Team, and CPM Team meeting.     April 2006 – August 2006 – Trainer Coordinator     Provided support of Mainframe applications and the eReferral system. Assist with providing management, FOCUS, and other system related reports. Assist with planning and data collection for implementation/maintenance of the automated systems. Assist in development and presentation of training programs to all level of staff and physicians. Maintained security for multiple systems, i.e. KPDS, OPAS, CARG, KITS, HTOO, FOUNDATIONS, and eReferral. Scheduled, coordinated, tracked and troubleshoot the use of computer based training programs. Updated users on all changes and enhancements to the systems.     October 2005 – April 2006 - Cashier Receptionist/Lead Appointment Clerk     Scheduled appointments by telephone, mail, and in person. Processed all timekeeping and payroll issues for department. Provided secretarial/administrative support for the Department Administrator/ Chief of Staff. Audited timecards and support manager with approving timecards, reviewing reports and correct problems with pay, reviewed discrepancies between TIME and Payroll Adjustment form. Researched all pay practice discrepancies, working with KP’s Labor and Compensation departments.     November 2002 – December 2004 – TIME System Administrator     Served as the primary facility contact and focal point for communications of the TIME (Payroll), HRIS (Human Resources Information System), eReferral (Electronic Referral System), and KPDS (Kaiser Patient Data System).   Worked closely with the Corona Help Desk, KP IT leads including the programming staff, clients, other TIME System Administrators, KPDS and eReferral System Coordinators. Maintained an operational expertise of the TIME System as well as the pay practices. Assured timely and accurate data entry of individual employee profiles and management approval groups. Controlled the appropriate security levels required by the system, assured that clients had current and accurate documentation. Ensured that all TIME System users were adequately trained in the use of any applicable hardware and software. Worked with the local training department to identify the training activities for the implementation and new employee training. Worked closely with the KP IT Programmer/Analyst from the development area assigned during implementation. Provided analytical research and program development support for the System, as well as assured its daily operation. Monitored managers/timekeepers compliance by performing periodic system and timecard audits. Created management reports using the TIME system database. Lead the local TIME Steering Committee meetings in conjunction with Local Administrative Liaison. Coordinated the development and maintenance of departmental Policies and Procedures for TIME system user’s facility wide. Suggested system enhancements that were used for region wide implementation. Attended regional TIME user meetings as a representative of the Medical Center to approve and prioritize system enhancement service requests.     December 1999 – November 2002 – Lead Appointment Clerk     Scheduled appointments by telephone, mail, and in person. Trained new and less experienced personnel. Served as a resource person to co-workers. Participated in special projects and studies. Coordinated department activities with other departments. Handled timekeeping for the ancillary staff, Podiatrist and Physicians. Prepared daily work assignment sheets and maintained monthly schedule for clerical staff. Processed Orthopedics and Podiatry monthly schedules into the OPAS system. Provided secretarial/administrative support for the Department Administrator and Chief of Staff. Resolved membership complaints, and assisted in solving departmental problems.     April 1997 – December 1999 – Cashier Receptionist     Greeted and registered patients for medical appointments. Scheduled follow-up appointments. Updated department appointment schedule daily. Assist appointment clerk with answering the phones, and performed other clerical duties.     Accomplishments   PROJECTS WORKED ON     Added over 300 RN’s to CPM for the LAMC 2011 walk out.   UCOA conversion     Updated Sub-Dept name clean up     Updated Sub-Dept description clean up     Updated Sub-Dept health connect fields     Service Site Clean up     Telecom updates (provide facility phone number info for each dept)     Added mIssing HR types for telecom clean up     Added Generic codes within CPM     Inpatient Nursing unit clean up     OPAS/CPM module clean up     FAC/ORG OPAS Department clean up and implementation     CPM became primary source for OPAS mailers – clean up all CPM delivery codes to prepare for mailer conversion to OPAS     Non-Physician license/certification clean up     Missing Business Relationship clean up     Divisional Termed provider clean up     Validate providers if actively working in both NCAL and SCAL- clean up list     Clean up of Per Diem (PD) status in OPAS for call center and CLMS     Skills Used   REMEDY (IT Service Management), LOTUS NOTES (Email, Sametime), Kaiser Permanente Mainframe System that includes: CPM (Common Provider Master - Database warehouse system), HKOO (Payroll), KLIS (Kaiser Legacy System), eReferral (Electronic Referral System), HRIS (Human Resources Information System), KPDS (Kaiser Patient Data System), OPAS (Out Patient Appointment System), CARG (Patient Registration System). Microsoft Word, Excel – Level 1, Level 2, and Excel Charts, PowerPoint, Windows. Education High school or equivalent in Business Downtown Business Magnet - Los Angeles, CA June 1985 Skills HRIS (Human Resourse System) Data Expert (10+ years) Assessments Technical Support — Familiar July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/epbc-0uur2tmrqii Project Management Skills: Time Management — Familiar July 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xwpfhph4zsmyho94 Basic Computer Skills: PC — Completed July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/mfhaiz7albyuatwu Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Familiar July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/12kzhxxq3zn-vnbo Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.