Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Collins Aerospace North Liberty, IA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Collins Aerospace - Cedar Rapids, IA August 2015 to August 2019 Support Atlassian tools in an enterprise environment with a primary focus on the Bamboo CI/CD tool. Provide end-user tier 3 support for Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery in relation to Bamboo, Jenkins, and other relevant technologies (i.e. git, SVN, PowerShell, bash, CMD, Visual Studio, Visual Basic, Python, etc.). Provide application packaging for enterprise tools. Attend meetings for DevOps discussions regarding plugin development for other tools. Assist in planning, implementation, and upgrade of future technologies for enterprise deployment. Desktop Support Analyst University of Iowa Foundation - Iowa City, IA June 2015 to August 2015 Diagnosed and supported PC and Macintosh systems. Setup the phone, computer, and relevant services for new users upon hire. Helped maintain LAN and WAN health and connectivity. Designed and outlined the setup process for new Apple Macintosh-based systems, to comply with company security policies. Supported enterprise printers. Researched and documented issues as well as aided other technicians when needed. IT Project Specialist via Donatech - Cedar Rapids, IA January 2015 to June 2015 Provide project management assistance with Windows Server 2003 end of life migration project. Communicate with server owners to make sure goals are met and maintained in line with project expectations. Build servers to specifications using Windows Server 2008 and 2012. Decommission Windows 2003 servers as they are migrated over to new systems. Maintain documentation, tracking project progress and creating reports for leadership review. Schedule meetings to discuss project outlines and progress with project stakeholders. Apple Solutions Consultant University of Iowa Foundation - Iowa City, IA November 2014 to April 2015 Provide a road map for Apple Macintosh integration and support. Communicate with end users to provide solutions in line with client needs. Research solutions for end user support including creating custom software solutions for unsupported programs. Provide solution documentation for break-fix issues, and new build configurations. Facilitated in day-to-day operations and troubleshooting. Compliance Consultant Accenture - Chicago, IL April 2014 to July 2014 Designed, developed, and tested compliance script solutions for Bring Your Own Device initiative. Created scripts in VBScript, PowerShell, and Bash scripting for Microsoft Windows and Apple Macintosh systems in order to perform compliance checks to uphold security and performance standards put forth by project leads. Worked with compliance security team to test hardware and software compatibility with BYOD software. Also assisted with designing and developing scripts to assist with other projects. Apple Enterprise Architect ACT, Inc - Iowa City, IA July 2012 to September 2013 Designed, developed, deployed, and maintained a fully integrated Apple infrastructure. Worked with Microsoft Windows teams to fully integrate Apple devices into the existing Microsoft environment. Oversaw deployment of Apple Servers for Active Directory integration, policy enforcement, and security. Created backup and fall-over procedures for Apple Servers to help LAN and WAN congestion issues. Administered day-to-day operations of the Apple environment, while working with end users to fulfill expectations of software and hardware. Created service path for break-fix issues related to hardware and software, including training support staff for end user support issues. Sr. Systems Engineer MicroTech - Iowa City, IA July 2011 to June 2012 Assisted the National SCCM team in rolling out Windows 7 and related software enterprise wide. Work trouble tickets in Remedy dealing with software upgrade and deployment issues with SCCM. Oversaw network and server health of SCCM environment for Midwest Region. Attend regular meetings with national and regional teams to discuss issues arising from deployment of software. Attend regular training with Microsoft to keep up with current trends and technologies. Sr. Systems Administrator via APR Consulting - Cedar Rapids, IA March 2010 to March 2011 Worked with the Enterprise Client Operations team performed application packaging for company wide Windows 7 upgrade. Wrote and created custom VBScripts to perform installation and deployment of software through SCCM 2007. Implemented advanced diagnostics and troubleshooting as defined for client systems. Created testing criteria for streamlined application testing and onboarding. Facilitated clients with recommended standardized criteria for application testing and remediation. Communicated with Client Strategy and Deskside Support teams for planned release of Windows 7 to the enterprise. Field Service Technician SA IT Services - Cedar Rapids, IA July 2007 to January 2010 Diagnosed and supported PC, Macintosh, and UNIX systems through service calls made to both onsite and offsite locations. Helped maintain LAN and WAN health and connectivity. Achieved Primary Service Lead for Apple Macintosh systems within the enterprise. Designed and outlined the setup process for new Apple Macintosh based systems, to comply with company security policies. Also oversaw PDA & Cell phone setup and repair, Lotus Notes setup, printer maintenance, and basic network configurations. Worked with Active Directory and Microsoft Distributed File System (DFS) on Windows Server 2003 and later. Maintained ticket closure rate consistent with contract or better. Researched and documented issues as well as aided other technicians when needed. Service Manager Neo Computers Inc - Iowa City, IA January 2007 to July 2007 Established check in process for client PCs, and oversaw service repair cycle. Maintained an efficient return time for client services. Diagnosed and repaired client systems through onsite and repairs and recommended services. Performed services for clients through service calls made for offsite repairs. Also maintained software used for repairs as well as limited network maintenance. Coordinated day-to-day operations and purchasing stock with management. Counter Intelligence Agent Best Buy - Coralville, IA May 2004 to December 2006 Diagnosed and repaired client systems through onsite repairs and recommended services. Maintained server for day-to-day operation of storage. Aided in training coworkers for better client support. Created and developed software tools used in computer repair. Recommended and designed procedures used for standard computer repair in store. Lab Assistant Sauk Valley Community College - Dixon, IL January 2000 to June 2000 Maintained PCs for day-to-day usage for students and faculty. Oversaw security of systems using network based monitoring software within the lab environment. Assisted students with computer courses, and provide support when needed. Manager of Information Systems BorgWarner Automotive - Dixon, IL January 1998 to June 1998 Managed daily infrastructure maintenance. Oversaw server back up on a nightly basis. Helped coordinate the enterprise's Y2K initiative. Organized and developed the strategy for upgrading all enterprise computers from Windows 3.x to a standardized Windows 95/ Novell environment. Used various Citrix, Novell, and Windows NT tools daily. Web Content Editor Fire Magazine - Dixon, IL March 1997 to May 1998 Created and built a web based magazine, using HTML and other technologies available. Devised and organized layout and content for the magazine on a monthly basis. Wrote and engineered Perl and Java Script for site. Insured cross platform compatibility. Led a staff of writers to ensure content was provided and researched in a timely manner. Made public appearances and gave interviews to promote the site. Site was featured in "Entertainment Weekly" and other various Associated Press articles. Education Communications Media Kirkwood Community College - Cedar Rapids, IA 2002 to 2004 Computer Sciences Sauk Valley Community College - Dixon, IL 1996 to 2000 Skills AMAZON WEB SERVICES, CLIENT/SERVER, DOCKER, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, PERL, PHP, PYTHON, RASPBERRY PI, Ruby, SCRIPTING, TCL, VBSCRIPT, XML, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, NETWORK ADMINISTRATION, SMS, BASH, LINUX, RED HAT, System Administrator, SCCM, System Admin Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/j1jwvamf3pvvwcyh Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills    Expert technical diagnostic and troubleshooting skills  Advanced Windows Operating System usage, repair, and management  Advanced Macintosh Operating System usage, repair, and management  Advanced iOS usage, repair, and management  Advanced usage with Microsoft Office Suite, including Office 365  Advanced usage with Google documents and applications  Advanced usage of Adobe Creative Suite products  Advanced Apple Server setup, maintenance, and administration  Advanced Active Directory implementation and management  Advanced Open Directory implementation and management  Advanced Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) knowledge  Advanced usage and Administration of SMS 2003 and SCCM software  Advanced Information Technology Systems Strategy/Architect skills  Advanced VBScript scripting knowledge  Advanced Bash Shell scripting knowledge  Advanced PowerShell scripting knowledge  Advanced Network Administration, including LAN and WAN Client/Server setups  Advanced Raspberry Pi/Raspberry Pi Cluster knowledge  Novice in Red Hat and Debian Linux OS environments  Basic Amazon Web Services (AWS) setup, usage, and management  Basic Docker setup and management  Basic Scripting Language Knowledge in Perl, Python, TCL, and Ruby  Basic Web Language Knowledge in HTML, JavaScript, Perl, CSS, PHP, and XML