Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator at Apollo Group Peoria, AZ Linux and Windows systems administrator with experience configuring and monitoring diverse set of applications and the related infrastructure.  Excels at implementing solutions to increase system availability for high volume processes.  Worked collaboratively with Application Developers, Database Administrators and Technical staff members and users to create knowledge base documents and user guides improving the user experience. Work Experience Systems Administrator Apollo Education Group Inc - Phoenix, AZ January 2010 to Present • Applied knowledge base data and experience to increase application up time by over 20%  • Increased stability and availability of system servers by 10% by providing training and knowledge based articles for 24 hour Operations Center to use for correcting system server issues.  • Responsible for 24 hour daily operations of the eXp/Documentum & Kofax Applications residing on Linux and Windows servers.  • Collaborated with both users and development staff to mitigate the issues generating the most user initiated tickets reducing the weekly ticket flow by over 50%.  • Improved user experience through user guides defining proper protocol. Identified integration partners and contact information to improve dependent application reliability.   • Collaborate efforts with development staff; focus on improving system health and availability.  • Work with Identity Management staff to investigate and resolve PeopleSoft user access issues.  • Managed $20 million automated processing schedule for Student Financial Aid. Systems Analyst Team Lead The Arizona Republic - Phoenix, AZ September 1997 to December 2008 • Documented and performed acceptance testing of Circulation Web Application supporting 65+ contract delivery drivers ensuring design specifications were met prior to deployment.  • Responsible for quality testing and supporting 10+ user applications and created user guides based on design specifications.  • Managed a dynamic team of five technology specialists assigning tasks and monitoring performance and workflow.  • Interviewed customers, gathered requirements for Circulation system applications and reports.  • Established and maintained Circulation Department Intranet content.  • Trained staff in the use of reporting technologies including SQR, Query Tool and Crystal Reports.  • Trained staff in the use of Excel, Access, Word and new reporting technologies.  • Prepared lessons and operating instructions for circulation reporting applications.  • Created and maintained sales promotion and contractor billing information.  • Recorded and reported outstanding receivables for Circulation Single Copy Contractor billing.  • Provided accurate and timely audit and update of sales outlets in Circulation system. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems DeVry University - Phoenix, AZ June 2004 Skills Microsoft SQL Server (7 years), Database Management (10+ years), System Administration (7 years), Oracle (7 years) Certifications/Licenses SQL Server Database Techskills - Phoenix, AZ People Tools Oracle University - Phoenix, AZ Groups Peoria Leadership Institute City of Peoria, Arizona DevSecOps May 2019 to May 2019 Bluelight Site Reliability Engineer May 2019 to May 2019 Bluelight Certified SAFe® 4 Practitioner January 2019 to Present Scaled Agile, Inc.