Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - CHANNEL CONTROL MERCHANTS, LLC Hattiesburg, MS My objective is to obtain a dynamic, challenging opportunity that contributes to the outstanding success of the business via 5+ years of Information Technology experience. Work Experience Systems Administrator CHANNEL CONTROL MERCHANTS, LLC May 2016 to Present • Currently lead a team of 3 that are responsible for all aspects of systems administration across 11 distribution centers and 105 retail locations.  • Systems include, but are not limited to the following;  ? Vmware virtual machines and networking  ? Microsoft Active Directory administration  ? Pfsense device and virtual instance configuration and implementation  ? Network attached storage  ? Patch management  ? Disaster recovery planning and testing  • Other responsibilities include:  ? Working directly with developers to ensure they have the tools and mechanisms to meet their goals for the business.  ? Engaging venders to find new technologies that could be beneficial to the business, price them, and present a business case to company leaders.  ? Working with management team to develop a system of security policies and procedures. Regional IT Specialist February 2015 to May 2016 • In this position I was the only IT personnel in the Northern Mississippi, Alabama, Tennessee, and Arkansas region.  • During my time in this position I was able to successfully transition the distribution center for this region from older pots line to an in house hosted Asterisk PBX solution as well as implement, much needed, network segmentation and manageability. All of this while maintaining over 25 retail stores. IT Support Specialist May 2012 to February 2015 In this position my duties included various forms of technical support to end users and retail operations. Education ASSOCIATE IN APPLIED SCIENCES in COMPUTER INFORMATION SYSTEMS TECHNOLOGY JONES COLLEGE Skills Vmware, System Administrator, Active Directory, System Admin