Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Pendleton, OR To apply my skills in the Information Technologies field in an environment where they will contribute to improved productivity, security and profitability. Work Experience Systems Administrator Medicine Bow Technologies - Cheyenne, WY July 2017 to December 2018 Provide IT services from desktop support to server/network installation and support to a wide range of business clients. The businesses that we service are small single owner to multi-site governmental agencies. My primary duties are to troubleshoot and maintain client computers, servers and networks, to include software installation/updates on workstations and servers, anti- virus solutions, system security, VPNs, Remote desktop connections, system backups, cloud migrations, VOIP systems. IT Consultant McGee, Hearne and Paiz, LLP - Cheyenne, WY August 2013 to July 2017 Provide IT services from desktop support to server/network installation and support to a wide range of business clients. The businesses that we service are small single owner to multi-site governmental agencies. My primary duties are to troubleshoot and maintain client computers, servers and networks, to include software installation/updates on workstations and servers, anti- virus solutions, system security, VPNs, Remote desktop connections, system backups, cloud migrations, VOIP systems. Computer Tech II Laramie County Library Systems - Cheyenne, WY February 2012 to August 2013 The primary responsibility is to ensure the smooth day-to-day operation of the library's LAN/WAN. Assisting with maintenance of all equipment dealing with technology; troubleshooting and repair of staff and public access computers with various configurations, miscellaneous printers and scanners; documentation; working with Cat 6 wiring; training staff on software and hardware; training the public; and troubleshooting a variety of software products. Other tasks include: assisting with maintenance, configuration, and installation of servers, switches, routers, Cisco phone system, etc.; investigating new software and hardware and making recommendations to the IT Manager; providing VPN support to the branch libraries and vendors; insuring mission critical backup systems run nightly. Network Administrator Meridian Trust Federal Credit Union - Cheyenne, WY November 2007 to February 2012 Primary responsibility is ordering, building, software installations and maintenance of the credit union's servers and network infrastructure. Currently the server population of twenty nine servers includes Citrix servers, SQL servers, MS Exchange severs, Web Servers, a Cisco IP Phone server, several Windows utilities servers, and a Linux server. The utility servers provide DNS, Active Directory, DHCP and network printing services. Secondary responsibility is the support of Windows XP Pro PCs and Wyse terminals across the entire organization, Cisco networking equipment management. Additional support responsibilities include software and hardware support for several banking applications. I/T Manager WellDog, Inc - Laramie, WY May 2005 to October 2007 Responsible for the full breadth of computer, server and network operations. Design, implement, install and maintain the company's computer and network systems. Provide end-user support and training to all computer users. Servers include MS Small Business Server, MS Exchange Server, MS SQL Server, MS 2003 R2 Server and a Linux Server. Provide operational support for company's VPN, intranet, commercial web site, and three mobile satellite units. I/T Manager Bowen Property Management - Tigard, OR 2002 to 2005 Manage the information systems needs of both Bowen Property Management and Regent Assisted Living. Maintain the all of the company's primary business applications and manage multiple networks. Provide systems support for over forty offices in seven western states. Ensure that computer hardware, software and communications network are capable of optimum system performance. Provide end-user and management training on systems. I/S Manager Regent Assisted Living, Inc - Portland, OR 2000 to 2002 Managed the information systems needs of a company with two local area offices, and 31 independent community offices. Provided network and workstation support for all company users. Developed policies and procedures for tracking customer service calls. Established hardware/software standards for the entire organization. Conducted departmental and organizational training sessions on the use of software systems. Had full responsibility for the maintenance of all WAN/LAN and communications circuits. Ordered all communications circuits and computer equipment. Facilities Project Manager Renaissance Credit Services - Beaverton, OR 1999 to 2000 Provided project management to the Facilities Department. Responsible for the co-ordination of all personnel moves within the company. Interfaced with the I/T department to insure that phones and computer equipment were moved concurrently. Ordered data wiring, 110v electric, movers and furniture installers for any move that required those services. Approved all invoices for those services. Meet with department supervisors and managers to determine future furniture and space needs. Created and maintained project plans for larger projects to ensure timely completion of facilities tasks. Sr. Desktop Support Technician Renaissance Credit Services - Beaverton, OR 1997 to 1999 Senior member of a support team that was responsible for resolving all personal computer hardware and software issues. Primary responsibilities were to install new software on new personal computers and setup in work areas. Performed as team lead on several large relocation moves, had to insure that computer equipment was packed, moved and setup in new locations without loss or damage. Acted as the single point of contact for resolving computer issues that occurred in our Ontario, OR branch locations, to include monthly travel to sites for updates, moves and problem resolution. Network Administrator Western Bank - Beaverton, OR 1994 to 1997 Prepared, installed, and administered network and computer services to 64 branch offices in three states. Project team leader for all computer and phone system installations and improvements. Worked with vendors and contractors to ensure correct data, phone, coax cabling and power requirements were met. Maintained a complete inventory of all computing equipment. Responsible for approving all personal computer service invoices. Prepared budgets for projects as assigned. Tracked and reported on expenditures against budgeted projects. Senior Analyst Personal Computers First Consumers National Bank - Tigard, OR 1989 to 1994 General Services Supervisor Personal Computer Tech Willamette Saving & Loan - Portland, OR 1983 to 1989 Warehouse Manager  Sr. Mailroom Technician Administrator Chase Manhattan Bank 1981 to 1983 Musician/ Supply NCO United States Army 1969 to 1981 Education Computer Application Degree Program in business and purchasing applications Mt. Hood Community College 1985 to 1988 Skills Active Directory, System Administrator, System Admin, Vmware Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: SFC (E-7) Additional Information • Extensive knowledge of and education in, personal computer O/S and software to include: MS Office Suite, Windows 7, Windows 10, Windows 2008/2012 Server, Cisco Networks SonicWall and Voice equipment, SQL Server, MS Exchange Server, Citrix Server, Citrix XenApp, Linux, MS-DOS.  • Considerable knowledge and experience in the areas of; project management, budget preparation, personal computer systems operations, personal computer network operations, personal computer hardware, software configurations and phone systems.  • Excellent communications skills that allow me to build solid professional relationships with vendors, management, and staff.  • Proven managerial skills, which include planning, delegation, and active listening, provide consistent performance.