Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - RDA SYSTEMS Canton, GA Work Experience Systems Administrator RDA SYSTEMS November 2018 to Present • Linux system administration  o Monitor and maintain, provision, deploy, migrate, production and development servers.  o 100% headless environment with very few third party GUI tools.  o Maintenance of SVN server and Jenkins pipeline.  • Scripting  o Write, modify and maintain BASH and Python scripts for task automation, deployment automation, Disaster  Recovery, distributed selenium stress testing, Ansible configurations, cron jobs, data manipulation. Data  migration, etc.  o For instance - Wrote python script to automate a previously manual and time consuming processes by automatically updating yaml files via arguments and then the script builds new playbooks that group servers  based on common roles and executes them in parallel.  • Development  o Java, C++ and SQL  o Currently developing a Java project using maven and Selenium Webdriver for regression testing of a highly available ERP accounting SaaS platform, it is to be kicked off from Jenkins as a final step in the  build process.  • Solely responsible for cloud to cloud migration, prem to cloud migration, DR, infrastructure, security, health and continuation, availability, and support of a highly available cloud computing environment consisting of more than  140 individual, multi-user, highly custom, test and production servers which host multiple SaaS ERP accounting  products used by local and county governments across the Midwest and Eastern Seaboard.  • Routinely research/rediscover, rebuild/script and execute manual legacy processes needed for business  continuation and growth. These processes have been lost over years due to departures of responsible parties who  transferred the knowledge of business-critical tasks verbally or not at all and left little to no documentation. Most  of the time only rumor of how something was done exists; in other words, it's digital archeology.  • Leveraged open source tech rather than off the shelf solutions for flexibility and cost reduction.  • Write, maintain, expand and deploy Ansible IaC Playbooks.  • Manage server access through OpenSSH with 16384-bit RSA keys through a multi-user jump server and custom  firewall configs.  • Write Python/BASH scripts to streamline and update production backup procedures, mass operations, and automation of previously manual updates to multiple legacy and next-gen production environments.  • CI/CD -SVN server running Jenkins. Responsible for maintaining pipeline. Responsible for building as well as releasing to test and production environments using Ansible in a 2-step release cycle.    2 P a g e    • Overcame QA difficulties by designing, coding and implementing a Selenium WebDriver regression suite into the Jenkins Pipeline.  • Improvements - Currently finalizing the decision for cloud providers going forward. Our current provider will be  shuttering operations in November 2019. Currently in talks with Azure, and it looks like I will be able to get our  environment migrated using Azure funding, and hosted at a price that will save my company $60,000+ per year in hosting cost which also increases profitability in server sales as a direct result.  • Oversaw transition from Development centric to Implementation centric model as beta product came closer to MVP.  • Provided outside of the box solutions to fix multiple bugs during beta production as well as with peripheral  products.  • G-suite admin, Mobile Device Management, Jira admin, Freshdesk admin. Write and maintain environment  structure and ticket routing, user rights, domain structure, aliases etc.  • Successfully lobbied to move the company away from an expensive custom and labor-intensive payment  processing application and toward leveraging a white label Virtual Terminal and REST before the company  committed to a new development timeline. This saved the company multiple payroll additions, and shortened the project's time to profitability from more than a year to weeks. Owner Operator VIM VITEA ORGANICS December 2016 to Present Stone and Metal Body Jeweler  3 P a g e    • Shape, polish, and set gem and semiprecious stones  • Marketing  • Inventory Management  • Supply Chain Management  • Customer Relations  • Accounting Network Support Specialist SOFT INTELLIGENCE January 2018 to June 2018 Networking/Infrastructure - Enable, configure, and maintain secure Server-Client communication in LAN and WAN retail point of sale environments, Troubleshoot communication interruptions in those environments. Enable  and maintain RDP access to Terminal servers hosting POS software serving multiple locations across the U.S.  Active Directory Administration and migration. Configure and support MS SQL Server for retail environments.  Active Directory admin, management and support of Office 365/exchange. Active Directory Admin.  • Security- Maintenance of LAN/ WAN architectures for compliance with PCI standards for customers across the country, Maintain secure RDP and VPN connections between multiple interstate Soft Intelligence office networks  and servers. Ensure TLS compliance for hundreds of customers with legacy hardware. Maintain and implement  firewall configurations for secure Multi-Site Communication. Research and recommend best practices for optimal  security/convenience ratio.  • Hardware/Software Setup and Deployment - Configure and install servers and workstations, install software and set scheduled tasks configure client server communication and remote access. Student Assistant T1 Help Desk GEORGIA TECH RESEARCH INSTITUTE May 2017 to January 2018 Cyber security Information Protection Hardware Evaluation Research Lab  • Networking - Network Troubleshooting DHCP/DNS Management, VLAN Management, VPN Management, Subnet  Management, Data Center Hardware Management, Switch/Port Management. Participated in a project to clone  IPA servers for redundancy and build out permissions structures to combat elevated permission attacks based on employee status. Active Directory admin.  • Hardware/Software Setup and Deployment - deployment of Linux machines through Foreman and Puppet. Set up  VMs for Penetration Test training with purposely vulnerable software, Setup Unclassified Machines and servers for users as well as Classified machines for closed labs, Disk OS install, SCCM PXE Boot, TFA (DUO)  • Network Security -HACK the box, CIPHER network hardening through vulnerability discovery and network  enumeration to verify domain status and remote access through custom scripting to ensure Host Compliance with Policy. Vulnerability Research, Exploit research. Owner Operator AEUS LLC June 2014 to May 2017 Automobile Detailing  • Detail some of the nastiest cars you've ever seen.  • Accounting  • Supply Chain Logistics  • Inventory Management  • Customer Relations Mechanic / Shop Manager SUNBURST MOTORS June 2010 to June 2014 • Troubleshoot obd2, electrical, mechanical, fuel system, exhaust, powertrain issues  • Read understand and follow electrical and mechanical schematics  • Rebuild/Replace engines, transmissions, and components  • Supply Chain Logistics  • Inventory Management  • Customer Relations  • Employee Management Education BACHELOR OF SCIENCE in COMPUTER SCIENCE KENNESAW STATE UNIVERSITY 2017 ASSOCIATE in APP. SCIENCE CHATTAHOOCHEE TECHNICAL COLLEGE 2014 Skills Arduino, C++, Git, Jenkins, Python, Raspberry pi, Scripting, Cisco, Dns, Network administration, Ldap, Mysql, Sql, Security, Deployment, Maven, Eclipse, Java, Jira, Selenium, Active Directory, Linux, Linux Administrator, System Admin, Vmware, System Administrator, BASH, Ansible, CI/CD Additional Information Skills    CI/CD  Production Configuration and Deployment, Test Configuration and Deployment, Jenkins, Ansible, GIT, Subclipse  Dev  Java, Python, C++, Yaml, SQL, Eclipse EE, Maven  QA  Allure, TestNG, Selenium, manual  Administration  CMD / PowerShell / BASH / Python Scripting, Mysql, DNS Administration, Network Administration (internal and cloud), AD, IPA,  LDAP, SCCM, Cisco ISE, G-Suite, JIRA  OS  Multi-OS Administration (Windows (server and desktop), Multi-Flavor Linux (server and desktop), OSX)  Office  Employee Management, Delegation, Supply Chain Management, Inventory Management, Physical/Digital Security Protocol  Compliance, Time Management, Leadership  Hardware  Working with small objects in tight places, component fabrication, electrical system repairs and wiring, PCB assembly (kit),  Arduino, raspberry pi, soldering, welding, component teardown and assembly