Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Melbourne, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Percepta, LLC - Melbourne, FL March 2007 to February 2017 Windows System Administrator 2007-2017    Performed:  Daily server room walk-throughs to diagnose and troubleshoot server issues and maintain 99.9% system up-time.  Wireless network maintenance including reboots as needed.  Active Directory administrative tasks including creating user accounts, security groups and OUs.  Monthly updates to the server NADA database.  Basic and complex daily work requests and work incident reports.  Check-ins with end-users to address and correct hardware and software performance issues.  Regular data backups and data recovery on user laptops using CrashPlan and on servers using Snapshot and/or Symantec.  Imaging of laptops and WYSE thin clients.  Server patching and bug fixes via PatchManager and Windows Update Services.  Basic scripting comparable to creating a script to add a trusted sites and drive mappings for a new program that requires group drives and favorites.  Unlocking on CryptoCard fob lockouts.  Daily reviews of Symantec and CrashPlan reports.  Fill-in work when Unix administrator was unavailable to perform daily back-ups using Tivoli.  Monitored, Managed and Maintained:  VMware servers and virtual environments.  Endpoint protection.  Server hardware and software, performance and event logs.  CrashPlan via administrator console.  DHCP addresses from the current available pool.  Size quotas on file servers, sending out notifications to users whom have exceeded or are about to exceed their allowed quota. Assist via proper channels depending on who they are on how manage their data more efficiently.  Employee Microsoft Exchange e-mail system.  Security groups and user accounts in Active Directory.  File server folder permissions and performed restorations as needed.  The following applications and accounts: Apps4Rent e-mail accounts, email blast campaign application, e-fax, agent instant message chat rooms and corporate intranet.  Corporate hardware inventory and off-site storage of backup media.  Emergency repairs to contain cost.  Dell service level contracts, ensuring they were up-to-date or covered devices under SEI if the warranty had expired.  Scripting in Desktop Authority.  Provided:  Call center teams with quality support in a timely manner.  On-call, 24x7 server support outside normal business hours.  Tier 2 and 3 support of software and hardware problems on desktop and laptops to standard end users and all levels of support for the executive leadership team.  Assistance to helpdesk agents with knowledge training questions  Created:  Ad-hoc reports for authorized users including user log on reports and/or lock out reports and computer hardware and/or software reports.  Purchase requests from vendor quotes and issued charges against technology budget.  Extensive documentation on current hardware, software and general end-user troubleshooting measures.  More   Configured Ceridian access at server level (used by payroll personnel).  Researched new technologies.  Evaluated support center agent tickets for accuracy, completeness and provided training as needed.  Shipped laptops and other technology related items.  Maintained vendor relationships and created requests for applications, software and license quotes as well as performing follow-up on scheduled orders. Desktop Support Technician II Percepta, LLC - Melbourne, FL January 2006 to March 2007 Desktop Support Technician 2006-2007    Fulfilled helpdesk tickets and work order requests for the local site.   Acted as primary source for daily support tasks on the production floor.  Performed helpdesk analyst responsibilities including escalated customer contact, troubleshooting, resolution or escalation to tier 3 support.  Trained other helpdesk analysts. Technical Service Representative PERCEPTA, LLC - Melbourne, FL January 2004 to January 2006 Technical Service Representative 2004-2006    Performed duties as an extended service plan (ESP) claims technical service representative for Ford.  Researched and rectified dealer submitted claim issues.  Assisted dealers with ESP and Ford warranty policies and procedures.  Assisted with the training of new claims representatives  Developed new hire claims training manual documentation.  Designed and updated intranet tools and information. Technical Customer Service Representative PERCEPTA, LLC - Melbourne, FL January 2002 to January 2004 Customer Service Representative 2002-2004    Within high-volume call center, reviewed and resolved customer inquiries and issues.  Advised customers on all aspects of automobile financing for seven finance companies. Customer Service Representative/Call Center Percepta, LLC - Melbourne, FL 2002 to 2004 ADDITIONAL  ? Within high-volume call center, reviewed and resolved customer inquiries and issues Education Marine Biology Palm Beach Atlantic College - Palm Beach County, FL Palm Beach Gardens High School - Palm Beach Gardens, FL Certificate of Outstanding Achievement in Care, feeding and maintenance of class 1 and 2 animals. Tigers Eye Productions, Inc. - Oviedo, FL Skills Domain Administrator (10+ years), Exchange Administrator (10+ years) Additional Information TOOLS    MS Exchange Console  Quest One Active Roles  Active Directory  Spark  Zoom  MS Communicator  VMware  CrashPlan  CryptoCard  Symantec Endpoint Protection  Tivoli  PatchManager  Windows Update Services  Desktop Authority    Managing applications, software licensing and support with the following vendors:    Citrix   CrashPlan  Dell  Flexera Software Licensing  Quest  ScriptLogic  SolarWinds  Symantec  Veeam  VmWare  IronMountain  Apps4Rent    ADDITIONAL TRAINING    Internet and web development  Microsoft Server  VmWare  Microsoft Office: Excel, Word and Power Point  Customer Service Excellence  Quality Customer Service  Ford Warranty Administrator Certification Training     Additional Prior experience:    WBS/Sprint - customer service, reception, cashier, collections    PetsMart - customer service, Plano- grams, upc sign specialist, cashier    Tigers Eye Productions - exotic animal trainer & husbandry. Education program staff.    WalMart - shoe department manager, customer service.