Systems Administrator II <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Systems Administrator II - Vista Higher Learning Brockton, MA Highly accomplished, dynamic, and diligent professional, powered with extensive IT Skills ranging from System/Network Administration to Securing/Penetrating endpoints. Strong passion for InfoSec and desire to take on new challenges and research. Known as a proactive and goal-driven leader, with strong ability in working effectively with internal and external technical teams; capable of easily adapting to rapidly changing environments as well as in ensuring bottom-line success. Possess excellent organizational and time management abilities with keen attention to detail. Work Experience Systems Administrator II Vista Higher Learning - Boston, MA November 2013 to Present 02116  - Managed the internal corporate infrastructure. This included everything from the network, SAN, Servers, and in between. Also, provided assistance to the Junior Systems Administrator if needed.  - Developed scripts in bash/powershell/python to automate tasks for efficiency.  - Managed the internal corporate security. Any endpoint that had access into the internal network was secured and monitored. Created a centralized log system to make analysis more efficient. Senior Technical Consultant Sertrega, LLC - Brockton, MA May 2011 to January 2013 - Monitor and configured small business networks using tools such as wireshark to troubleshoot and resolve issues with DNS and switch configuration.  - Installation and Configuration of Active Directory and Exchange servers.  - Troubleshoot and resolve issues via Citrix remote access tool requiring multi-tasking working with several clients at once and providing the best possible solutions and delivering customer service  - Incident Response for security breaches and malware infections. Technical Support Engineer, Global Ionix - ECC, AMER South St - Hopkinton, MA March 2006 to 2011 - Applies technical expertise using standard operating and diagnostic protocols to quickly resolve standard to complex system level issues. Identifies documents and escalates customer issues.  - Supported the EMC ControlCenter application which included installation/configuration of the application, Storage Array and SAN component discovery issues, log analysis, and maintenance. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and Mathematic Bridgewater State College - Bridgewater, MA Skills Networking, Storage Attached Network, Penetration Testing, Forensic, Programming, Exploit Development, Vmware, Scripting - Bash, Python, Powershell, Ethical Certifications/Licenses OSCP January 2019 to Present Offensive Security Certified Professional GPEN January 2018 to Present Additional Information IT Skills    * Operating Systems: Linux, Windows (XP/NT through 10/2016), OSX  * Virtualization through ESX Server Maintenance/Administration and profficiency with VirtualCenter, vSphere, and Virtual Infrastructure  * Networking: Intimate knowledge of LAN and WAN protocols and practical experience with them (TCP/IP). Cisco Ios, Wireshark, tshark, tcpdump, nmap, nc, sbd, scapy, etc  * Storage Attached Network: Understanding of SAN Fundementals and Implementation.  * Security: Kali, Metasploit framework, Burp Suite, OSINT, Social Engineering, network penetration testing, webapp penetration testing, SQLi, Android App testing, privilege escalation, exploit development reverse engineering, and a passion that keeps me learning daily.  * Database Systems: SQL, Oracle  * Computer Languages: C/C++, Go  * Scripting: Bash, Powershell, Python