Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Manager Litchfield, IL Work Experience Systems Administrator Montgomery County Courthouse - Hillsboro, IL June 2019 to Present IT Manager KSDK-TV St. Louis May 2016 to April 2019 Strategized, innovated, and lead the IT technical support team. Managed the day-to-day work of IT Support and maintained all technical systems / equipment, ensuring error free operation. Other duties included recruitment, training, and performance management. Developed, documented, and implemented best practices, maintenance procedures, and proactive changes to existing systems to promote continual service improvements. Participated in engineering planning, ensured projects were implemented and completed on schedule using industry standards, best practices, and were fully documented.  • Collaborated with the Digital and News departments to develop and deploy podcasting and Facebook Live production systems, which directly contributed to a 30% improvement in viewer engagement KPIs on all digital media platforms  • Directed staff members to actively seek out inefficiencies and problem areas, placing a strong emphasis on quality assurance and the development of automation tools. This lead to dozens of automated tools and workflows, decreasing time spent on routine tasks by 160 hours annually and reducing rework by 97% at KSDK.  • Established preventative maintenance schedules and procedures for all major technical systems, which reduced unplanned service interruptions in key areas from 30hrs in 2017 to 90 minutes in 2018, a reduction of 95%  • Pioneered an initiative to actively monitor technical systems performance, which reduced average time to respond to problems by 96% - from 4 hours to 10 minutes on average Network Server & Virtualization Engineer Maryville University January 2015 to May 2016 Performed system administration of fully virtualized, clustered server environment, VMWare View virtual desktop infrastructure, and Netapp storage area network (SAN). Performed maintenance and documented 300 virtual machines (Windows Server 2000, 2003, 2008R2, SUSE, CentOS) performing a variety of functions, including Active Directory, Apache / Nginx web servers, MSSQL, Oracle, and MySQL database servers, WordPress content management instances, Colleague application servers, and other applications. Generated project proposals, budgets; set implementation goals, timelines, and milestones. Worked with vendors, contractors to ensure goals and deliverables were met on-time. Responsible for researching, testing, procurement and deployment of new systems required to meet University objectives.  • Created graphics-accelerated virtual desktop environment capable of supporting 500 students, providing Maryville with the capability to deliver the same on-site lab experience to virtually any device, anywhere in the world. Cost-effective at $5.26 per user, per month, on a 5-year system life-cycle; further enhancing the value of its ongoing iPad deployment initiative and achieving Maryville's goal of becoming an Apple Distinguished Educator  • Coordinated with newly-founded Cybersecurity program leaders to construct a virtual training environment and a Cybersecurity fusion center. These advanced program capabilities were beyond those offered by any other University at the time cementing Maryville's leadership in this area and leading to $1.1M in grants over 4 years  • Planned and managed Exchange 2010 to 2013 and Novell to distributed file system migration projects, reducing email and file storage system outages by 99.98% (21hrs total downtime during 2015, reduced to 15m total downtime during 2016) Sr. Cloud Systems Engineer iBridge Solutions employment November 2014 to January 2015 contractor for Enterprise Holdings, Inc.)  Conducted updates and upgrades of production systems in AWS through the use of Puppet. Participated in the research and development of improved automation tools for managing the Enterprise public cloud infrastructure using python and bash scripting. Troubleshot problems and assisted team members with issues resulting from automation glitches and bugs. Independent Contractor (concurrent with iBridge employment) Maryville University November 2014 to December 2014 Consulted with Maryville IT staff after-hours to deploy and migrate resources to an improved VMWare vSphere 5.1 virtualization environment, completing the project on-time and without outages. Network Server & Virtualization Administrator Maryville University May 2013 to November 2014 • Spearheaded the purchasing, deployment, and migration project for a $1.6M Netapp Fabric Metrocluster tiered storage system with secure hybrid cloud storage component, seamlessly migrating over 45 terabytes of student and faculty data in the process  • Budgeted and wrote capital project proposals for 17 infrastructure upgrade projects. Consultant Computer Techniques, Inc July 2011 to March 2013 • Collaborated with municipal government client to plan and conduct $40,000 overhaul of core networking / server infrastructure. Project represented single largest sale of equipment and services in company history at that time  • Virtualized 16 physical servers for K-12 school district client to reduce operational costs by $12,000 annually Maintenance Contact Team Leader US Army September 2009 to July 2011 • Commanded maintenance contact teams of 2-4 personnel in highly dynamic and hostile environments.  • Accountable for inventory control of over $10M of sensitive Department of Defense hardware / software and associated secure data.  • Maintained 99.2% service availability of 10 mission-critical intelligence sensor sites in 6 geographically diverse locations in support of Operation Enduring Freedom XI Intelligence, Electronic Warfare Shop Foreman US Army March 2007 to September 2009 • Evaluated, trained, and mentored 12 team members in Solaris administration and satellite-based networking  • Devised standard operating procedures, established service level agreements, on-call procedures, emergency response protocols, and routine preventative maintenance schedules.  • Responsible for inventory control of $6.2M worth of mission-essential IT and telecommunications infrastructure equipment Military Intelligence Systems Maintainer / Integrator US Army September 2006 to March 2007 Military Intelligence Systems Maintainer / Integrator Trainee US Army September 2005 to September 2006 Skills Bash (10+ years), Budget (6 years), Budget management (6 years), Customer relations (7 years), Incident response (10+ years), Linux (10+ years), Process development (5 years), project management (8 years), Python (2 years), Systems architecture (8 years), Team building (10+ years), Web services (6 years), HTML (3 years), Network Administration (10+ years), Customer Service (6 years), Strategic Planning (8 years), Cisco (10+ years), Vmware (8 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/nicholashall87 Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE  * Complex project management * Team Building & Leadership * Customer relations  * Process development * Business partnership * Budget management  * Incident response management * Systems architecture design * Infrastructure-as-code  * Linux / Windows Administration * Amazon Web Services * Python / Powershell / Bash