Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Pinnacle Technology Solutions, LLC Fort Wayne, IN My objective is to join an exceptional organization in order to further a brand, influence others, and develop both personally and professionally. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Pinnacle Technology Solutions, LLC December 2016 to Present At Pinnacle Technology Solutions I seek to enable clients from small businesses to utilize technology to operate at peek efficiency by ensuring their IT setup works for them and not against them.    My responsibilities include the following:    • Answer calls and respond to emails to troubleshoot and resolve problems encountered by clients  • Manage active directory, DNS, group policy and DFS shares in Windows Server environments  • Manage networks, vlans, vpn setup, and dhcp through various router, switch, and AP setups  • Manage ring groups, extensions, and phone deployment in VOIP systems  • Setup and deploy new workstations onsite or remotely  • Research and present creative solutions to meet client needs Training Director Chick-fil-A, Glenbrook Square July 2014 to November 2015 February 2016- November 2016  ? Developed and fostered long-term relationships with guests and potential guests to build trust and grow a presence within the community  ? Interacted with guests in numerous positions within the restaurant to provide outstanding service to all  ? Supervised and lead the restaurant as both a shift leader and store director  ? Took inventory of and ordered food and restaurant supplies allowing for successful day-to-day operations    ? Processed and submitted daily financials  ? Effectively scheduled front counter team members by forecasting sales in order to provide sufficient team member coverage and maintain great labor costs  ? Invested time in team members to foster growth and long term development  ? Sought continuous improvement by building a quality training plan focused on enabling team members to succeed and grow from day one  ? Organized and facilitated weekly leadership meetings  ? Responsible for reviewing applications, organizing and conducting interviews, and extending offers of employment to candidates  ? Lead the training of new team members and the continued training of existing team members  ? Worked with a team of gifted leaders to build the brand, our team, and sales. Maintenance Assistant Imagine Schools - Fort Wayne, IN June 2013 to August 2013 Performed various maintenance tasks such as painting, cleaning, mowing, and furniture organization. Education Certification Ivy Tech Community College April 2017 High School Diploma Home School December 2014 Skills training Certifications/Licenses Emergency Medical Technician - Basic May 2017 to June 2019 Certified Emergency Medical Technician - Basic in the state of Indiana