Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator El Dorado, CA To contribute my strong analytical, leadership and technological skills to an organization that seeks an enthusiastic and creative employee. Work Experience Systems Administrator Folsom Cordova Unified School District - Folsom, CA July 2000 to March 2018 • Active Directory domain administrator to manage approximately 2,500 employees and 22,000 student user credentials, configure GPOs, ACLs, Groups, and OU administration  • MDM Administrator for 1,400 tablet devices for both students and administrators with AirWatch.  • Manage FCUSD vSphere data center for approximately 75 virtualized servers running on 9 ESX hosts  • Monitor storage utilization and forecasting of HP 3Par P7400 SAN  • Disaster recovery knowledge of Avamar and Veeam backup solutions   • Experience with Microsoft SQL 2005, 2008, 2012, 2016 and Microsoft Exchange 2010, 2016,   • SCCM 2016 administration for imaging, workstation asset tracking, application development and updates for clients in the FCUSD network.  • Project manager for a library database migration from the network based Follett Circ/Cat to the Follett online based Destiny.  • Lightspeed Rocket content filtering for staff and students  • Project manager for SIF implementation of PowerSchool => AD => Google Apps for students and QSS => AD => Google for staff.  • Cisco and HP switch configuration for LAN connectivity and CWDM configuration for WAN connectivity. Cisco wireless controller administration of approximately 1,400 APs.  • Develop and implement application training sessions for groups and individuals.  • Project planning for an $8.5 million five-year technology bond deployment at 17 different school sites. Planning includes logistics of ordering, shipping, coordinating sites involvement, scheduling technicians time, and follow up.  • Folsom Cordova Unified School District technology purchasing coordinator for hardware and software.  • Produced a research and evaluation model to determine if various software and textbooks could be used to develop a graduate level data-mining course for CSUS.  • Seek out and preview new educational software and make recommendations based on cost analysis and technological needs.  • Develop workstation images utilizing variables and SCCM OSD to reduce technician setup time and increase staff efficiency.  • Experience with VMware Horizon View with Unidesk  • Develop a remote Student Information System DB interface in VB 6.0 that runs off of a local server, and accesses student data over the WAN. The application was developed during a time of slow WAN links.  • In depth knowledge of all Windows Server 2003, 2008 R2, 2012 R2, 2016, Windows Desktop OSs, and various Linux OS distributions.  Adjunct Faculty ITT Technical Institute - Rancho Cordova, CA September 2003 to October 2003 • Instructor for a general education economics course at local technical college.  Graduate Research Assistant California State University, Sacramento - Sacramento, CA January 2001 to June 2001 • Produced a research and evaluation model to determine if various software and textbooks could be used to develop a graduate level data-mining course for CSUS.  Account Clerk II Folsom Cordova Unified School District - Rancho Cordova, CA September 1999 to June 2000 • Hired to save a program that was having financial difficulties and achieved an increase in receivables for the Folsom Cordova Family Centers’ by $326,855 in three months.  • Monitored thirteen different grant expenditures and filed appropriate reporting requirements stipulated in the grant awards.   • Payroll, accounts payable warrants, and monthly STRS/PERS reports.  • Established budgets, monitored expenditures, and involved in budget and contract negotiations with various state and federal agencies.  Financial Aid Officer Heald College - Roseville, CA June 1999 to August 1999 • Provide financial counseling to individuals regarding debt management or special aid for students.  • Knowledge of all Title IV funding, California State Grants, Federal Stafford Loans.  • Loan counseling and certification of Federal Direct Student Loan Program.  • Cal Grant and Federal Pell Grant application and certification for students. Financial Aid Administrator ITT Technical Institute, Rancho Cordova - Roseville, CA October 1997 to June 1999 • Hired by ITT as a director of finance trainee to develop managerial skills.  • Provide financial counseling to individuals regarding debt management or special aid for students.  • Knowledge of all Title IV funding, California State Grants, Federal Stafford Loans.  • Develop and monitor on a monthly basis, the comprehensive budget for the California Association of Private and Postsecondary Schools.  • Loan counseling and certification of Federal Direct Student Loan Program.  • Cal Grant and Federal Pell Grant application and certification for students. Intern, Office of Presidential Letters and Messages The White House January 1997 to March 1997 • Responded to correspondence from elected officials, organizations, military officials, and other VIP status documents on behalf of President Clinton.  Education Master of Business Administration in Sacramento Marketing California State University August 2001 Bachelor of Arts degree in Business Economics University of California - Santa Barbara, CA May 1997 Skills Microsoft Servers, System Center Configuration Manager, Active Directory, Group Policies, Exchange, Office 365 (10+ years)