Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - FARAH & FARAH Jacksonville, FL Work Experience Systems Administrator FARAH & FARAH - Jacksonville, FL July 2018 to Present • Server configuration, maintenance, and administration  • Active Directory administration  • Management of Avaya IP phone system  • Creation of technical guides for users  • Diagnose, troubleshoot, and repair hardware and software Technology Support Specialist ST. JOHNS COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT - Saint Augustine, FL October 2012 to July 2018 • Answer user inquiries regarding computer software or hardware operation to resolve problems.  • Set up equipment for employee use, performing or ensuring proper installation of cables, operating systems, or appropriate software.  • Install and perform minor repairs to hardware, software, or peripheral equipment, following design or installation specifications.  • Oversee the daily performance of computer systems.  • Read technical manuals, confer with users, or conduct computer diagnostics to investigate and resolve problems or to provide technical assistance and support. PC Technician SOUTHERN COMPANY - Valdosta, GA October 2011 to October 2012 • Oversee the daily performance of computer systems.  • Answer user inquiries regarding computer software or hardware operation to resolve problems.  • Set up equipment for employee use, performing or ensuring proper installation of cables, operating systems, or appropriate software.  • Install and perform minor repairs to hardware, software, or peripheral equipment, following design or installation specifications.  • Read technical manuals, confer with users, or conduct computer diagnostics to investigate and resolve problems or to provide technical assistance and support. PC Technician Geek Squad BEST BUY - Valdosta, GA August 2009 to May 2012 • Oversee the daily performance of computer systems.  • Answer user inquiries regarding computer software or hardware operation to resolve problems.  • Set up equipment for employee use, performing or ensuring proper installation of cables, operating systems, or appropriate software.  • Install and perform minor repairs to hardware, software, or peripheral equipment, following design or installation specifications.  • Read technical manuals, confer with users, or conduct computer diagnostics to investigate and resolve problems or to provide technical assistance and support. Education B.A. in Philosophy VALDOSTA STATE UNIVERSITY - Valdosta, GA May 2009 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, SERVER ADMINISTRATION, AMAZON WEB SERVICES, COMPTIA, LINUX, WEB SERVICES, MAC