Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Secret Security Clearance Baltimore, MD Well developed individual who aspires to obtain a position that would best utilize my  abilities and professional skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Mitchell Consulting Services Group December 2018 to Present Answer user inquiries regarding computer software or hardware operation to resolve problems.  Oversee the daily performance of computer systems.  Read technical manuals, confer with users, or conduct computer diagnostics to investigate and resolve problems or to provide technical assistance and support.  Enter commands and observe system functioning to verify correct operations and detect errors.  Set up equipment for employee use, performing or ensuring proper installation of cables, operating systems, or appropriate software.  Develop training materials and procedures, or train users in the proper use of hardware or software  Maintain records of daily data communication transactions, problems and remedial actions taken, or installation activities.  Maintain remedy ticket system.  Teir I support Help Desk Technician I Maryland Army National Guard - Baltimore, MD March 2014 to Present Answer user inquiries regarding computer software or hardware operation to resolve problems.   Oversee the daily performance of computer systems.   Read technical manuals, confer with users, or conduct computer diagnostics to investigate and resolve problems or to provide technical assistance and support.   Enter commands and observe system functioning to verify correct operations and detect errors.  Set up equipment for employee use, performing or ensuring proper installation of cables, operating systems, or appropriate software.   Develop training materials and procedures, or train users in the proper use of hardware or software  Maintain records of daily data communication transactions, problems and remedial actions taken, or installation activities.  Maintain remedy ticket system. Correctional Officer Baltimore County Department of Corrections - Baltimore, MD December 2014 to November 2018 • Conduct head counts to ensure that each prisoner is present.  • Monitor conduct of prisoners in housing unit, or during work or recreational activities, according to established policies, regulations, and procedures, to prevent escape or violence.  • Inspect conditions of locks, window bars, grills, doors, and gates at correctional facilities to ensure security and help prevent escapes.  • Record information, such as prisoner identification, charges, and incidences of inmate disturbance, and keep daily logs of prisoner activities.  • Search prisoners and conduct shakedowns of cells for valuables and contraband, such as weapons or drugs.  • Use handcuffs, and physical force to maintain discipline and order among prisoners. Patient Care Technician( Peds) University of Maryland Medical Center - Baltimore, MD December 2013 to January 2015 • Answer patient call signals, signal lights, bells, or intercom systems to determine patients' needs.  • Apply clean dressings, slings, stockings, or support bandages, under direction of nurse or physician.  • Change bed linens or make beds.  • Clean and sanitize patient rooms, bathrooms, examination rooms, or other patient areas.  • Collect specimens, such as urine, feces, or sputum.  • Communicate with patients to ascertain feelings or need for assistance or social and emotional support.  • Document or otherwise report observations of patient behavior, complaints, or physical symptoms to nurses.  • Feed patients or assist patients to eat or drink.  • Sanitary cleaning. Education CCNA Cisco Network Training Academy - North Little Rock, AR July 2016 to September 2016 Certified Nursing Assistant It Works Learning Center - Baltimore, MD February 2011 to March 2011 Skills BAR CODE (5 years), FOOD PRODUCTION (5 years), MEDICAL TERMINOLOGY (4 years), Customer Service (6 years), Military (4 years), Powershell (4 years), Powerpoint (4 years), microsoft office (4 years), Sharepoint (4 years), Security (6 years), Help Desk, Active Directory, Helpdesk Support, Service Desk, Desktop Support, Secret Clearance, Tech Support, System Admin, Vmware, System Administrator Military Service Branch: Maryland Army National Guard Service Country: United States Rank: SPC March 2014 to Present Certifications/Licenses CPR/First Aid Present Certified Nursing Assistant (CNA) March 2011 to September 2020 Certified Patient Care Technician July 2013 to September 2019 Customer Service December 2011 to Present Secret Security Clearance Additional Information Skills:  Administration and Management, Customer and Personal Service, Food Production, Bar code  Reader. Active listening and Critical thinking. Medical terminology.    References are available on request.