Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Colorado Springs, CO Work Experience Systems Administrator Livingston Public Library January 2013 to June 2019 Designed and wired the public library network. Installed Linux and Windows Operating Systems on servers, public computers and staff computers. Build periodic images for a variety of HP and Dell computers. Install routers and wireless access points. Supports Chrome, Firefox, and Microsoft Office along with other software. Support video camera.  Wrote three Visual Basic programs, one to wake all the equipment on lan, one to shutdown all the equipment on Lan and a computer login program which stores times the public computers were in use to a MySql database for accountability purposes. Connect Telephone and Computer Group Support Tech Computer Monitoring May 2011 to May 2012 Monitored customer computers and servers remoting using a remote monitoring program. Remotely provided updates and computer fixes including installing software remotely. Manned help desk. Contract Computer Generalist Longview January 2010 to January 2011 assigned to Hess as Help Desk\Desktop and Server Support    Possesses a wide range of computer skills including help desk, desktop support and ability to work with IBM and Alltel to support various servers and virtual server, With great customer service skills established rapport with all 250+ users and furnished application, hardware, and telecommunications support. Setup and supported Polycoms.for communication. Provided support to outlying areas including Minot, Hawkeye and Keene. Wrote a SQL program to facilitate inventory of loaner computers and other equipment. Contract Lab Support Engineer ExcelData February 2008 to April 2009 Contracted to Microsoft as a Lab Support Engineer. With 6 others: provided hardware and software support to over 10,000 computers used for testing including HP, Dell and IBM computers Using a ticket system interfaced with programmers, Microsoft partners, and other departmental groups via phone, email and in person to determine problems and resolve issues. Through meetings, written documents, and informal contact, passed learned information to others of the group. Wrote documentation for users. Programmed solutions to alleviate the necessity of repetitious manual fixes. Recommended purchases including computers and equipment. Troubleshot network issues. Racked and wired computers in labs. Setup W2k8 Virtual Servers and builds Virtual Images using the new Hyper V technology. Maintained internal web pages writing in HTML, ASP, Vb script and displaying data stored in SQL databases. Used CSS style sheets. Maintained department SQL databases for inventory and programmed an SQL Database/IIS website to track Office equipment and display the information on a web page. Also programmed various vb script web pages to add and remove inventory data. Wrote specialized vb scripts to pull data from the asset database to help in the administration of computer equipment. Contract Desktop Support Engineer TekSystems September 2007 to December 2007 Imaging and deploying computers using Ghost and Active Directory, providing desktop support for hardware and applications, repairing Dell Laptop and Desktop computers and supporting blackberry devices. Lab Manager Computer Associates April 2007 to September 2007 Hired as the Lab Manager supporting development and testing on Sun (Solaris), HP-UX, IBM-AIX, Linux and W2K3 servers. Provides W2K3 domain support adding accounts and computers. Manages NIS including accounts and auto mounting volumes and home directories. Builds and maintains images for Microsoft Virtual Servers and VMWare. Provide network troubleshooting. Controls departmental tape backups and restorations using Computer Associates ArcServe Software. Furnishes written documentation for Lab Manager functions. Plans and recommends purchase of new hardware. Contract Network Printer Engineer TekSystems January 2007 to March 2007 Involved in a printer refresh supporting Dell for a rollout of printers which includes inventory, survey of network drops/power and recommendation as to replacement of printers. Contract Support Engineer Precise Fit December 2006 to January 2007 Contract Systems Administrator Boeing July 2006 to November 2006 applications and computers, including troubleshooting applications and restorations of computers. Remote installation of software.    Contract Systems Administrator Jul 2006 Nov 2006  LG Consulting    Provided systems administration and desktop support involving computers, server backups, network wiring, phone wiring and support. Specific projects have included switch port inventory, setting up a printing system and writing scripts in vb and java that allow users to install printers using a web page, programming a VB tool to aid in an inventory of computers, modifying Outlook forms for a special project and writing various administration tools. Built a Linux server with FTP and remote access services for evaluation. Supported Linux, Macs and Windows PC Computers. Was encouraged to apply for a newly opened position but declined. Contract Systems Administrator Star Technical February 2006 to June 2006 Provided systems administration and desktop support as a contractor including supporting computers, servers and switches, phones, and other computer accessories including blackberry devices and laptops. The contract ended when the branch was closed down. Was offered a job but did not want to relocate to Chicago. Contract Systems Administrator Ajilon Consulting December 2005 to January 2006 On a two month contract, provided support as a systems administrator involved with migrating over 3000 computers from Windows 2000 to XP. Ghosted images, performed inventory of loaded software, copied profiles, added users and computers to and from Active Directory, and reloaded software. Programmed a VB tool used to automatically inventory computers for software, mapped drives, profiles, and printers. Contract Systems Administrator TekSystems June 2005 to November 2005 Completed various contract assignments involving system administration and desktop support duties including setting up computers for various companies according to specifications, software installation and software testing. Prepared various reports including asset tagging and inventory. Troubleshooting of computer hardware, software and computer accessories. Lab Manager/Software Tester Volt Systems October 2004 to December 2004 Contract Assignment two and 1/2 months.    Assigned as a Lab Manager/Software Tester involved in testing Microsoft software. Sets up test computers, makes and distribute images using Power Quest. Provides software test runs. Contract Systems Administrator TekSystems July 2004 to September 2004 Completed various contract assignments setting up, adding and troubleshooting networked equipment. Library Systems Manager University of North Florida February 1997 to April 2004 Supported the University of North Florida and the Thomas G. Carpenter Library and provided formal and informal help desk services. Provided server support in an enterprise environment with 2000, NT4, Linux, BSD and Novell operating systems. Also supported web services including web pages, scripts and SQL on IIS and Apache platforms. Maintained DNS, Samba, FTP, SSH, SSL and DHCP. Built and deployed W98, XP, and 2000 computer images using Symantec Ghost and scripting. Provided formal help desk services to patrons and staff. Also provided on-site support to 350 desktop computers utilized 18 hours a day, seven days a week. Supported additional devices including routers, switches, hubs, barcode readers, printers, fax machines, wiring and the University telephone system.  Provided backup and restorations using Veritas and Symantec Ghost. Provided network security using Ethereal and Nmap tools.  Programmed in HTML, Visual Basic, Perl, PHP and CGI Script, writing custom programs to enhance the Library's infrastructure.  Supported a variety of software including Microsoft Office, Works, Access, Excel, PowerPoint, Lotus, Outlook, Word Perfect, Netscape, Internet Explorer, Mozilla, and Opera.  Setup and provided access to the mainframe using Host Explorer and Extra. Computer Specialist Duval County School Board February 1994 to February 1997 Provided network support to 250 Novell Servers, 100 on a WAN and 10,000 IBM and Mac computers most of which were networked utilizing frame relay and dsl?. Supported Duval County School Libraries. Built Novell servers, loaded software and installed computers for the on-going replacement of equipment. Provided computer and software support via help desk operations and on-site visits. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Programming Jones College Skills Linux, Redhat, Linux Administrator, System Admin, System Administrator, Vmware