Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Admin Pittsburgh, PA To obtain a management position in a challenging environment utilizing my skills, experience, and degree. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Hero Data Services - Amherst, NY April 2017 to Present Responsibilities include:  • LAN/WAN/NOC Administration  • Database Administration of our Quoute Plus and History Viewer Software  Project Management  • Historical Data conversions  • Technical Support  • Systems Installation,  • Configuration & Upgrading  Windows Support and Mac Support  SQL Query and Database Report Running  Windows Server administration  Email server administration  Hardware install and repair Printers and PC Implementation Specialist General Physician PC - Buffalo, NY July 2016 to April 2017 Responsibilities Include:  •Personnel Management  •Running statistical reports.  •Staff training on entering information in advance directives fields  •Set up of E prescribing.  •Use of the superbill; to include when to use modifiers.  •Overview of ICD-9 (and10) and CPT coding.  •Use of standardized imaging codes and document scanning codes of the •DM/HM screens; customization and link features.  •How to use tools for patient self management. * Provider Training. Implementation Coordinator CCS Oncology - Clarence, NY November 2014 to July 2016 Responsibilities include:  • Managing the overall planning, execution and strategy of implementing a complex-new EMR system (CUREMD) from contract through go live.  • Serves as the key point for planning and leading all aspects of the EMR project.  • Establishes a strong working relationship with end user organizations and to function as the end  users' representative on technology/business issues.  • Proactively monitors and accurately communicates regarding project performance using project  tools, dashboards, reports and other communication vehicles.  • Establish end user requirements for the EHR based on industry practices.  • Proactively collaborates across projects with other product and cross functional project teams to identify, issues and inefficiencies and to avoid scheduling or resource conflicts on inter-related projects.  • Implements established policies, system monitors and controls to ensure the successful management and reporting of all initiatives in the program.  • Prepares project timelines, schedules, estimates and resource planning to support key business projects. Medical Biller Practice First Medical Management Solutions - Amherst, NY October 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities include:  • Using multiple EMR systems to organize and manage patient information. This includes charges, bills, and statements etc.  • Filing patient insurance claims for doctor's offices, hospitals, and specialty medical centers.  • Clerical evaluation of patient records for suitability, completeness, and accuracy of health/insurance data  • Balancing daily and monthly reports.  • Correcting out-voice errors.  • Using a multi line phone system. Taking calls and following up with doctors, patients, and insurance companies.  • Staying up to date with health insurance carrier changes.  • Maintaining adequate knowledge of compliance laws and regulations including HIPAA. Logistics Associate Medco - Tonawanda, NY October 2012 to July 2013 Responsibilities included:  • Scheduling Employees for shifts  • Fulfilling orders of athletic medical supplies to be processed and shipped to client(s).  • Organizing and fulfilling orders of athletic supplies being shipped by UPS mail.  • Helping to maintain a clean organized warehouse by directing warehouse personnel.  • Training new employees how to complete orders. Cashier & Associate Home Depot - Niagara Falls, NY March 2011 to October 2012 Responsibilities included:  • Engaging customers in a positive and courteous manner in order to assist them with their purchases and returns  • Handling cash, credit card and foreign currency transactions  • Preparing contents of till for balancing by head cashier and accounting department.  • Maintained a low level of inventory shrinkage  • Ordering special pick up items through the "online cashier" function via computer  Professional Achievement Highlights:  • Multiple Friendliest Cashier Acknowledgements  • Multiple "Fastest Cashier" Acknowledgements Administrative Intern, Clerical The Iroquois Group Insurance Company - Allegany, NY September 2010 to January 2011 Responsibilities included:  • Scanning paper bank records and other data into recording software.  • Utilizing Google Ad Sense to create marketing phrases for the website  • Utilizing Adobe Photoshop to edit photographs for company publications  • Fielded calls to agents Education Associate in Business Administration Niagara County Community College 2008 to 2010 High School Diploma St. Joseph's Collegiate Institute - Kenmore, NY June 2008 Skills System Administrator (2 years), System Admin, Vmware, Active Directory