Systems administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span> Systems administrator - LRRI Albuquerque, NM A network and systems administrator specializing in complex networks, their optimization, maintenance, and modernization while minimizing downtime for end users. Proactive and detail oriented while maintaining a high-level understanding of the network attached devices. Work Experience Systems administrator LRRI December 2017 to Present • Designed new Exchange 2016 architecture and migration path from Exchange 2010. Completed migration in a three-hour window when contractors quoted us a week of down time. Recovered the few corrupted mailboxes from Exchange 2003 still present on the 2010 infrastructure.  • Resolved routing issues preventing installation of a new firewall. Ongoing issue before hiring for nearly a year.  • Created complete network documentation allowing for network optimization, identification of "mystery" switches, and reclamation of lost passwords.  • Lead operations stabilizing microwave link between campuses and replacing failing hardware  • Stabilized the VMware system (monthly crashes). Standardized VM practices, documented basic functionality, removed unused systems, fixed associated VLAN routing and vSwitches.  • Implemented high availability on all VMware hosts, vMotion, and Live Volumes for key systems via the underlying storage. These features were licensed but never implemented and used. This was a large improvement to uptime.  • Virtualized multiple physical systems based upon usage, benchmarks, and budget understanding.  • Brought stabilized system up to date and migrated to new hosts installed and configured with ESXi 6.7 and utilized 10Gb network components previously bottlenecked at 1Gb while preserving redundancy for all connections.  • Created and implemented SOP's for updating networking components. Previously all equipment was left with original firmware. Updates solved multiple "unresolvable" issues.  • Planned, presented, and implemented a new WiFi system with a centralized controller within budget constraints. This was previously considered impossible when quoted from a Cisco vendor.  • Developed archiving method and documentation for employees leaving the company. Requirements for keeping data for 10 years means space is a premium  • Configuration, maintenance, and implementation of multiple IPSec tunnels to various campuses and vendors  • Implementation of Solarwinds network monitoring and creating useful alerts. Automation of basic network tasks through Solarwinds.  • Team lead for VoIP migration, configuration of network, server and switch build out within the data center, installation and configuration (QoS) of Mitel software. Created associated documentation.  • SAN and RAID experience including purchasing recommendations, management, data recovery, and trouble shooting. Network and it consultant self-employed August 2016 to December 2017 • Running fiber to homes outside Comcast's coverage area in Santa Fe, NM.  • In home wireless mesh networks for large homes  • Home server installation  • Home and Small Business networking  • Custom built systems/servers  • Home A/V server installation and configuration  • Installation and Configuration of PoS systems  • Website Setup and Payment Processors  • Home A/V setup and consultation Mobile Sales and Support Rep Target Mobile March 2016 to August 2016 Sales and support of mobile phones and devices from Sprint, AT&T, and Verizon Self Employed self-employed September 2012 to February 2016 • Home A/V server installation and configuration  • Home and Small Business Networking  • File Recovery  • CAD System Builds/Configuration/Trouble Shooting  • Custom Crypto Currency PoS Systems  • Home A/V Setup and Consultation Education BACHELOR OF ARTS in Philosophy PORTLAND STATE UNIVERSITY 2011 Skills WAP, POS, POS SYSTEM, 2ND CHAIR, Active Directory, Linux, Redhat, System Admin, Vmware, System Administrator, Linux Administrator, Red Hat, SCCM