Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Insurance Counselor - AAA Insurance Beltsville, MD Demonstrated achiever with strong academic background and practical work experience. Strong marketing and finance background. Fluent in two languages: English and Spanish. Skilled at learning new concepts quickly, working well under pressure, and communicating ideas clearly and effectively. Procurement and Organization skills, being able to deal with different companies at the same time. Experience as a system administrator. Looking for IT positions and develop a career as a system administrator. Work Experience Systems Administrator Trinitech Global Consulting 2018 to Present Trinitech Global Consulting. Systems Administrator. 2018-2019  Perform multiplatform standard and advance server builds procedures on VMware, which include Windows Server 2008, windows 2019 EC2 Server (AWS Cloud), RHEL 6/7, Centos 6/7, Solaris 10/11, RHEL8 EC2 Server in the AWS Cloud. Responsible for assigning hostnames, static IP addresses, default gateway addresses and DNS addresses to Windows 2008 Servers so as to introduce them to the network. Use the "dcpromo" tool to configure DNS, Active Directory as well as to promote standard Windows 2008 servers to domain controllers  Windows 7, 8 and 10 NOS imaging and configurations and software deployment. Create new User accounts and profiles on Windows NOS, UNIX and LINUX systems. Troubleshoot and resolve OS, application, malware desktop related issues on various Windows NOS. Use TCP/IP troubleshooting tools to troubleshoot and resolve network connectivity and DNS related issues in the LAN  Configure Windows NOS clients to join the domain as well as configure file and print sharing on some Windows NOS to enable resource sharing.    Experience in building and configuring VMware host and guest systems on Oracle Virtual Box as well as bridging the Guest VMware systems to communicate with other physical LAN systems. Insurance Counselor AAA Insurance May 2015 to Present Auto, home, Life insurance products as wells as financial services. Building up business networking and referrals sales development. Supervise 2 insurance agents. Monthly sales goals and monthly sales events in different locations of the DC, VA or MD. Working for 6 different companies and using 2 sales database systems. Advisor and claim adjustor duties. Excellent customer satisfaction and positive goals. Bank Representative and Sales Associate Car State Farm Insurance March 2012 to February 2013 loans refinancing and banking products. Close car loans and home loans referrals. Biding with the best price for the car insurance loans with different companies. Car insurance quotes and Life and Health Licensed. Financial Sales Associate and Personal Banker PNC Bank February 2011 to November 2011 Handled teller transactions and cross sold products. Provided financial advisor support including retirements, 401Ks, and home loans and auto.    COURSEWORK HIGHLIGHTS at UMBC: During the coursework in advanced database technology, completed project related to creating and developing a database for a warehouse video store using tables and queries to be able to organize all the information of approximately 20 stores with approximately 40 different products. Applied the use of foreign keys and primary keys with identifiers and SQL scripts. (Project done in IS631-Management Information Systems). Developed database to track and report on customers and clients that use insurance products and organizes the information according to different products and agencies. This project emphasizes the relationship between driver and insured and homeowner and insured. Basically was able to create the project and the database system within my area of job and expertise. Was able to apply it then later in my real work every day job. It really was an amazing experience. The course is IS 633 (Database Management Systems). Project required SQL script development to create data tables, load data, and query the Oracle 11g database. In course IS 674 (Web Information Architecture), formed a project group and using data mining, choose different websites and after analyzing few of them, chose one to be able to redesign the particular format and graphics of the website. Started with a site cope analysis, blue printing, labeling this particular website. We modified and analyzed a Pet Website in all possible aspects, such as methods of design, hierarchies, global navigation and what kind of customer is oriented too. At the end, ended up creating wireframes with our own original designs. In course IS 669 (Project Management), we did a Project Management Plan in updating the accounting information system in a banking institution located in California. Generate deliverables measuring the outcomes of each step (including software and hardware) and Progress in Reports including the projected budget and the technology necessary to have a top of the notch at a low cost system that will bring profit and new customers for the banking institution. After four months of intense work, we were able to contact the manager of the banking institution and present the upgraded accounting information system project. It is going to be considered for 2015 Education Bachelor's Degree in Business Administration in Business Administration University of Maryland University College - College Park, MD May 2005 Skills System Administrator, Active Directory, Vmware, System Admin, Linux