Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Platte City, MO • Strong analytical skills   • Proficiency in TCP/IP protocols   • Network management  • Information security  • Active Directory   • Firewall management  • SQL   • Windows troubleshooting  • Windows Server management  • Windows Update management  • G Suite management Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Weber Flooring/Joe's Carpet - Lenexa, KS August 2015 to Present At Weber Flooring, I am the sole IT contact for the entire company of 70 employees and 5 locations.     I manage 2 Hyper-V servers, which host a Terminal Server, a SQL server, an Altigen server (for VoIP), and a domain controller. I manage all system and server updates. I have created documentation for most of the company hardware and software. I manage company cell phones and hotspots, as well as the company's G Suite account.     I actively monitor usage and costs, in order to provide employees with the tools that they need to stay productive, while also keeping costs down. I have saved the company thousands of dollars by negotiating rates with vendors. Mental Health Specialist Mosaic Life Care - Saint Joseph, MO June 2011 to July 2015 Saint Joseph, MO  Facilitated ADLs and assisted patients with functional mobility to increase comfort and quality of    life.  Supported patients with customized patient teaching tools.    Maintained the safety of patients by providing 15-minute rounding.    Prepared for HIPAA and JCAHO reviews, ensuring required brochures and pamphlets were    available to patients in all clinics.  Participated in unit based Quality Assurance Program.    Provided group therapy to patients.    Recorded patients' medical history, vital statistics and test results in Electronic Medical Records.    Maintained patient privacy and confidential patient information. Pain Line Associate Altec July 2008 to January 2009 Saint Joseph, MO  Inspected finished products for quality and adherence to customer specifications.    Followed company guidelines to ensure all products met company standards. Support Manager WalMart November 2005 to May 2008 Saint Joseph, MO  Delivered excellent customer service by greeting and assisting each customer.Delivered excellent    customer service by greeting and assisting each customer.  Addressed customer inquiries and resolved complaints.    Determined staff promotions and demotions, and terminated employees when necessary.    Stocked and restocked inventory when shipments were received.    Directed and supervised employees engaged in sales, inventory-taking and reconciling cash    receipts.  Completed weekly schedules according to payroll policies.    Wrote order supply requests to replenish merchandise.  Trained staff to deliver outstanding customer service.    Addressed and corrected sales staff communication issues in a tactful and effective manner. Education BS in Information Technology Western Governors University May 2018 to Present AA in Information Technology University of Phoenix 2012 to 2014 Skills CompTIA Network+ Certification, CompTIA Security+ Certification, CompTIA Project+ Certification, CIW Web Design Specialist certification, CIW Database Design Specialist certification, CIW JavaScript Specialist certification, Desktop Support, Help Desk, Tech Support, Active Directory, Customer Support, Customer Service