Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Gibsonville, NC Work Experience Systems Administrator Arneg LLC - Lexington, NC June 2018 to Present • Administrator of all IT operations of this location.   • Setup and administer Cisco switches and Unifi wifi system.   • Setup and administer Acronis backup system including cloud storage.   • Administer Zultys PBX system.   • Administer Windows 2012/2016.   • Some AS/400 administration.   • Handled upgrade of camera system project.  • Handle procurement of all IT equipment.   • Administer Dell Powervault 1200 system. Systems Administrator Hafele Americas - Archdale, NC December 2014 to June 2018 I am involved in many areas including VMware 5.5 administration, Exchange 2010, Windows server 2008/2012 administration, DNS/DHCP, Netapp administration, Some Linux administration, printer administration, setting up terminal devices. Assisted with Netapp storage upgrade. Some Cisco UCCX administration. Part of Worldwide Server administrator team Manufactures Furniture Hardware - Archdale, NC December 2014 to June 2018 • Administer a mixed virtual environment of VMWare 5.5/6.5 and Hyper-V 2012 servers.  • Part of Worldwide Server administrator team with home office in Germany.  • Storage administrator for Netapp appliance.  • Printer administration ranging from contacting vendors for purchases to setting up printers on the network and subsequent administration.  • Exchange 2010 administration  • Experience with UCCX social miner.  • Monitoring of server infrastructure utilizing OPManager.  • Windows 2012/2008 server administration  • Aided with planning and design of server and network infrastructure projects  • Linux Ubuntu administrator Helpdesk Coordinator/Desktop Administrator LC Industries - Durham, NC August 2007 to October 2014 Non profit Organization - Employs Visually Blind  • First and second level support for most IT issues  • Responsible for IT support for Main Office, 2 Distribution Centers, 5 manufacturing and 31Retail Stores on military bases throughout US  • Handled ordering of all IT equipment  • Assist with WAN and LAN support  • Exchange/Server Administration including AD and Group Policy VOIP Admin Allworx LC Industries 2009 to 2009 phone system Network Analyst IBM Corp - Research Triangle Park, NC June 2006 to August 2007 Large IT Corporation.  • Part of Networking level 2 team in a 7X24X365 Operations Call Center supporting 30 commercial accounts.  • Took ownership of networking issues. Worked with users, telco vendors and gathers other support groups to help resolve an issue. Involved in initial problem determination of issues.  • Tracked tickets using multiple ticketing platforms including systems that shared interfaces with telco vendors such as AT&T and Verizon.  • Used monitoring tools and router connections to check the network status of customer devices.  • Experience with Cisco 1700/1800 series routers and 2950 catalyst switches. Capability of checking serial and Ethernet interfaces to determine connectivity and packet loss on Frame Relay, BGP and ISDN circuits as well as making port configuration changes. PC Technician RALEIGH GENERAL HOSPITAL - Beckley, WV January 2006 to March 2006 Hospital providing health services to southern WV  • Used a work order system for technical issues with mostly Dell PC's/printers and network equipment (wireless laptops, wireless scanners) within the hospital campus.  • Dealt with troubleshooting issues involving MS Office, Windows XP and hospital applications.  • Used Meditech (a menu driven hospital accounting system) to monitor reports.  • Handled Windows 2000/XP user account security. BAKER INSTALLATIONS Charter Communications - Washington, PA April 2005 to January 2006 Telecom servicing company  • Contracted for Charter Communications to provide broadband installation services for residential and commercial customers.  • Installed broadband television and internet services(including wireless and small home networks) for residential and commercial customers.  • Installed all cabling between outside node and inside equipment which included configuration. IT Technician ARGENT HEALTHCARE FINANCIAL SERVICES - LaPorte, IN January 2003 to December 2004 Financial Services corporation that specialized in accounts receivable for medical facilities.  • Provided NT 4 network support for Win98/NT/2000/XP nodes and branch offices using VNC & PC Anywhere.  • Exchange 5.5 administrator.  • General PC and PBX system support as well as other technical duties.  • Office 2000/XP/2003 Professional suite experience.  • Developed written technical procedures for existing data systems.  • Helped develop a plan for a project involving data migration from 2 different domains in our network. Lightwave Telecommunication Tester MCI/Worldcom - Chicago, IL December 2000 to May 2002 Local Implementation Telecommunication Tester MCI May 1999 to December 2000 Large Telecom Corporation.  • Test project lead on OC48 circuit system from Chicago to Iowa.  • Helped install, configure and implement SONET systems in preparation for circuit turnups between major cities in Midwest.  • Installed and tested DS3 and T1 turn-ups.  • Trained new hires and helped evaluate performance on further instructional needs.  • Configured Cisco 2500 series routers using scripts to allow connectivity between CO and Co-location site.  • Telecom equipment worked with were Nortel OC-3,12, 48, 192, MOR+ and Fuji-192. Programmer/Computer Technician ABLESOFT SOLUTIONS - Beckley, WV May 1998 to May 1999 Small custom software organization that develops applications and web sites for clients.  • Developed applications using Visual Basic/Crystal Reports and Microsoft Access for document imaging applications.  • Aided in configuring a 50 node NT network in a state government office.  • Helped implement a WAN within a medical organization using a combination of ISDN and T1's.  • Gained experience in setting up computer hardware and peripherals for client organizations. College Internship MOUNTAINEER GAS COMPANY - Charleston, WV May 1997 to May 1998 Corporation that specializes in reselling natural gas statewide to local residential and business customers.  • Performed various computer work including working with a custom CAD program to map all company owned facilities statewide.  • Documented VB programs and fixed minor program flaws.  • Used precision technology to extrapolate map positions from high resolution ground photos to coincide with GPS locations. Work-study Lab Assistant WVU Tech - Montgomery, WV August 1992 to May 1998 A state university that specializes in engineering programs.  • Maintained Windows NT/95 LAN in the business center's computer lab including printers and network integrity.  • Helped students with various computer issues.  • Set up local mail server with MS Exchange and MS Outlook to create a local mail system for use by professors in various computer classes.  • Worked with Unix systems to access mail servers and the internet. Education Cisco Network Administration Certificate in Networking Technology Guilford Technical Community College - Jamestown, NC August 2015 to Present Bachelor's in Management Information Systems West Virginia Institute of Technology - Institute, WV May 1998 Skills Servers (5 years), vmware, active directory, vpn, System Admin, System Administrator, Linux Certifications/Licenses MCP January 2020 Additional Information • Bachelors degree in Management Information Systems.  • MCP Certified Windows Server 2012  • Experience in a IT call center environment, providing customer support for worldwide offices.  • Other experience includes: Win 10/7 workstations, Exchange 2010 Administration, VOIP Admin, Windows server 2012 Administration, Active directory, DHCP, DNS, Hyper-V, VMWare 5.5/6.5 administration, Netapp storage, Group Policy, File and Folder security.  • NOC experience supporting level 2 LAN/WAN networking support for commercial accounts.