Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network specialist Malvern, AR Seeking Career in Network Management. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator J C CLIFT TRUCK LINE INC - Malvern, AR February 2019 to Present ·       On Call as Needed  •  Maintains Business Network Infrastructure.  ·        Ensures Backup of all Servers and Client PCs  ·        Maintains Payroll Systems  ·        Provides Support to staff to keep all systems running properly for day to day operation. IT Service Technician Aamsco - Little Rock, AR June 2018 to Present ?   Service and repair of Debit Card machines for banks around the state.  ?   Deployment of Access Control and Identification systems, for Hospitals, Schools and Law Enforcement Agencies across the state.  ?   Demonstrate to customers the proper methods for operating the equipment after it has been installed.  ?   Provide telephone support to customers by determining the cause of the issue and explaining the most effective solution.  ?   Properly complete work reports for each field visit.  ?   Review all aspects of the job upon completion to alleviate equipment failure and prevent callbacks.  ?   Direct onsite training for business users to maximize productivity.  ?   Manage firewall, network monitoring and server monitoring both on- and off-site.  ?   SQL and Active Directory administration management for numerous customer’s networks across the state.  ?   IT, PC and Network Support, as well as collaborating with customer’s project managers and IT staff to develop efficient integration of identification products and securing clients information systems.  ?   Administration of Microsoft Server and Linux Network Servers Deputy Sheriff Hot Spring County Jail - Malvern, AR January 2017 to August 2017 • Jailer at the County Jail, maintained safety and security of staff and housed inmates in facility, serving warrants, and inducting new commitments into jail.  • Gathered information and evidence to assist in solving crimes.  • Interviewed targets and witnesses to uncover facts for verification and authentication.  • Observed jail and inmate activity to maintain order and safety of inmates and guards.  • Served court documents and completed civil process duties.  • Investigated all security and safety violations.  • Delivered accurate verbal and written reports to company personnel. Customer Service Representative SYKES - US Center - Malvern, AR July 2016 to December 2016 • Assist customers with questions and problems; research and provide a resolution  • Provide Customer Service and Technical Support to Troubleshoot issues  • Solve problems that may be unstructured and require use of conceptual thinking  • Ensure service delivered to customers meets contractual Key Performance Indicator (‘KPIs’)  • Listen attentively to customer needs and concerns; demonstrate empathy and build rapport  • Prepare complete and accurate work including appropriately notating accounts as required  • Participate in activities designed to improve customer experience and business performance PC Support Specialist/Correctional Sgt ARKANSAS DEPT OF CORRECTIONS 2007 to 2016 • Repairing and maintaining end devices and the administration of network users and peripherals.  • Performed installations of network routers and switches.  • After serving for two years of outstanding performance a promotion to Sergeant was granted, and a transfer into the security division.  • Three years of experience in maintaining safety and security of staff and inmates  • Five years' experience supervising officers and staff, in medium and maximum-security environment.  • Obtained documents, clearances, certificates and approvals from local, state and federal agencies.  • Performed investigations using digital forensic techniques on PC's to gather evidence for Internal Affairs Double Agent BEST BUY GEEK SQUAD 2004 to 2007 • 2004-2007 Installing, Repairing PC's, Router Installations, WIFI installations and maintenance, Residential and Business, Started Part time, promoted to full time status, shortly after hired as Double Agent Status, in which Services calls and installations occurred in customer's homes and businesses.  • Promotion was given within a month of receiving Double Agent position, based on overwhelming job performance. SALES ASSOCIATE WALMART 1999 to 2004 •    Stocking of Shelves, Ringing up Sales Transactions, Professional Customer Service, knowledge of products.  • Trained and served as a peer coach for new sales associates.  •  Maintained adherence to all company protocols.  •  Worked collaboratively in team environment.  •  Suggested accessories and complementary purchases.  •  Prioritized and accomplished wide range of tasks each shift.  •   Monitored entrances, exits and fitting rooms for signs of theft. Education Associates Degree in Computer Information Systems Network Management College of the Ouachitas - Malvern, AR July 2016 to May 2018 College Prep in COMMUNICATION GLENROSE HIGHSCHOOL 1987 to 1997 Skills CISCO Router Administration (2 years), Microsoft Server (5 years), Windows OS (10+ years), VLANS (2 years), VMware (3 years), Hyper V (3 years), Active Directory (8 years), SQL Database Management (2 years), Supervisor (6 years), PC Hardware (10+ years), Network Administration (7 years), Java (2 years), Project Management (6 years), Troubleshooting (10+ years), Policy Development (8 years), Novell (4 years), Switches (6 years), Routers (6 years), Remote administration (5 years), Cyber Security (3 years), Access Control (1 year), Customer Service (10+ years), Security (8 years), Security issuance administration (1 year), VOIP (6 years), Conflict Resolution (8 years), Web Design (8 years), Webex (2 years), VPN (6 years), Problem Resolution (10+ years), Linux (5 years), Telnet (9 years), TCP/IP (7 years), Fiber Optic cable Management (5 years), Exchange Server (6 years), RMM Systems (6 years) Certifications/Licenses Certificate Microsoft Certified Professional December 2017 to Present Microsoft Server Certificate of Network Security Present Network Secruity Computer Information Systems Network Management May 2018 to Present Associates Degree in applied science    Computer information systems network management systems Certificate of Business Systems Networking Cisco Present Business Systems Networking Cisco Certificate of Java Computer Programming Present Computer Programming Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/c7lzht5hkohqsjfy Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/l-sjkyds0mzovmv Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information ACCOMPLISHMENTS    • Promoted to Lead Double Agent within 2 months of position  •  Handled several high-level projects simultaneously, successfully delivering each of them in less time than was expected.  • Installed appropriate security patches to dissolve security vulnerabilities.  • Monitored and assessed issues that arose with clients, ensuring immediate resolution which promoted stronger relationships and resulted in more lucrative projects.  • Able to complete IT assignments professionally, in intense environments.