Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Skilled systems administrator with strong experience managing server infrastructures using Windows and Linux platforms. Puyallup, WA Ability to effectively plan, install, configure and optimize IT infrastructures to achieve high availability and performance.    Proven ability to create and deliver value engineered solutions to meet budgetary requirements. Skilled problem identifier and troubleshooter comfortable managing systems and projects in IT environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Investment Concepts, Inc. - Orange, CA March 2006 to May 2019 Hired as a full-time systems administrator to manage and maintain a mixed server (Windows/Linux), on- premises Microsoft Exchange 2013 and Cisco network environment. Evaluated, monitored and enhanced IT infrastructure with an emphasis on availability, reliability, scalability, security, data confidentiality and system integrity.    Key Contributions:    • Designed and implemented a security program to increase corporate security posture including installation of secure Cisco switching infrastructure, WatchGuard firewalls with application and web content filtering, open source intrusion detection/prevention system, Barracuda anti-spam controls, Group Policy Objects, and Carbon Black, Webroot and McAfee endpoint protection.    • Planned and implemented upgrades of server hardware and Windows and Linux based operating systems to modernize key infrastructure and maintain scalability and reliability of critical systems.    • Established a disaster recovery program using on premises Quest Backup server and cloud-based replication to Amazon Web Services.  • Leveraged log aggregation tools to efficiently monitor servers and endpoints.    • Acted as single point of contact for troubleshooting advanced network/ systems issues for 250+ users across three states.    • Regularly audited permissions, accounts, and network controls to ensure adherence to established security policies.    • Conducted employee training on security awareness, network operations and Microsoft Office productivity software. Support Technician UNIVERSITY OF SAN FRANCISCO - San Francisco, CA March 2004 to April 2005 Provided technical support to all faculty and staff university-owned computers.    Key Contributions:    • Assisted with training and supervision of part-time student employees.    • Responsible for endpoint asset management and scheduled technology refresh cycles. Systems Administrator Sound Optical Laboratory - Tacoma, WA 2000 to 2003 Mechanical Engineering Technician DLI Engineering - Bainbridge Island, WA 1998 to 2000 Education Bachelor of Science in Cyber Operations in Cyber Operations Dakota State University - Madison, SD August 2017 to Present Skills Amazon Web Services (2 years), Microsoft Exchange (10+ years), Active Directory (10+ years), DNS (10+ years), Cisco Catalyst (10+ years), Citrix XenApp (10+ years), DHCP (10+ years), LDAP (5 years), VMware vSphere (Less than 1 year), Linux (2 years), Red Had Enterprise Linux (1 year), IDS/IPS (3 years), ADFS (1 year), VMware Horizon View (Less than 1 year), System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin, Red Hat, Linux Administrator Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA): Cyber Ops May 2018 to May 2021 EMC Information Storage Management Certified Academic Associate May 2015 to Present Assessments Technical Support — Expert April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/hot6uymrbsgcig3c Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/feuwrsh6wwna35th Project Management Skills: Time Management — Highly Proficient July 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/q9zifnxktrcysivu Email — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/isyl5vkd67cwo81o Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.