Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Field Systems Administrator Sioux Falls, SD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator ADESA Sioux Falls - Sioux Falls, SD March 2015 to Present -Maintain and service all PC, networking, mobile and peripheral devices.  -Maintain strict inventory counts on all computer, mobile and computer related devices.  -Assist endpoint users with any technical PC hardware or software issues as needed.  -Communicate large scale issues with corporate IT teams, quickly and effectively relate issues through ServiceNow ticketing system and continue communication until resolution of issues.  -Manage all IT projects for our site and assist other sites remotely as needed. Export Coordinator Americold Logistics - Sioux Falls, SD February 2013 to February 2015 Prepare and distribute Bills of Lading  Maintain and prepare invoices for clients  Maintain expansive filing system  Coordinate all activities in a fast-paced office setting  Prepare all necessary USDA documents for export of food products to North American and Southeast Asian markets.    Skills Used  I employed my many years of computer, problem-solving, mathematics, client service, and office equipment experience. This position also required a high attention to detail and quick thinking to solve problems before product shipment. Furnace and Dust Specialist Intek - Sioux Falls, SD August 2012 to January 2013 Utilize mechanical abilities to setup and tear down equipment used in the cleaning of residential HVAC systems.    Offer outstanding client service during the cleaning procedure. Workflow Coordinator TCF Bank - Sioux Falls, SD February 2012 to May 2012 Prepare, coordinate and distribute daily work to associates.  Investigate and reconcile differences between the Federal Reserve and TCF Bank ledgers  Act as liaison between representatives and management. Credit Analyst Citibank NA - Sioux Falls, SD May 2010 to November 2011 Analyze credit applications to determine creditworthiness  Take incoming calls to assist the applicant and relate decisions in real-time  Utilize sound judgment, accurate math and customer service skills  Was awarded "Performer of the Month" August, 2011 Education Computer Science Colorado Technical University Sioux Falls - Sioux Falls, SD August 2000 to May 2004 Skills Active Directory, System Administrator, System Admin, Project Management (5 years), Communications (5 years), Python (3 years), Virtualization (3 years), Office Equipment (10+ years), Office Management (4 years), Hospitality (6 years), Banking (4 years), Call Center (4 years), Sharepoint (3 years), Citrix (5 years), Visual Basic (5 years), HTML (2 years), As400 (2 years), Account Management (5 years), Budgeting (6 years), Manager (4 years) Assessments Data Analysis — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ytorbzxfn081sozr Technical Support — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/n6vo6iaemeremevk Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/lqmckg-z9kuaxq1o Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vqlnokttynf6j-iu Project Management Skills: Time Management — Highly Proficient July 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/e1sjxamw0ddcfvav Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.