Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Driven veteran working in the IT industry Spokane, WA System Administrator with a background in military intelligence Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Leidos - Fort Hood, TX August 2018 to Present • Built, configured, and installed servers for the DCGS-A program.   • Installed VMware ESXi and VMs before shipping to clients.   • Managed and secured large inventory of classified hard drives and other media.  • Utilized Logicube and UReach drive replication systems.  • Created master images for servers and workstations.  • Troubleshooted servers and workstations.  • Recovered and upgraded used systems for redeployment. Multifunction Team Squad Leader, Apr US Army - Fort Hood, TX January 2013 to Present 2016 - Sep 2018  ? Responsible for maintenance and accountability of over $1.2M of vehicles/equipment  ? Maintained and repaired communication equipment  ? Managed 8 HUMINT (intelligence-gathering) and SIGINT team members to provide strategic signals intelligence support  ? Created communication process for Standard Operating Procedure which allowed our squad to be the first to maintain communication with higher headquarters for the entire duration of a rotation at the National Training Human Intelligence Collector US Army - Fort Hood, TX January 2013 to September 2018 ? Responsible for preparation, writing, distribution, and analysis of intelligence reports  ? Successfully maintained $100K of vehicles and equipment  ? Prepared and presented briefings to senior officers which helped commanders make operational decisions Intelligence Analyst US Army - Fort Hood, TX June 2015 to April 2016 Produced complex multi-source intelligence products derived from intelligence reports, analysis, evaluation, and interpretation  ? Created intelligence presentations in order to brief senior-level government agency officials  ? Produced daily intelligence reports on Korean theater of operations in support of unit commander's mission  ? Assigned as and performed duties as a security manager IT Intern Inspira Medical Center - Vineland, NJ June 2012 to August 2012 Education AAS in Intelligence Studies Cochise College 2017 None in Computer Science Pace University - Pleasantville, NY 2010 to 2012 Skills Security (5 years), Technical Writing (6 years), Linux (10+ years), Mac (10+ years), Network Administration (2 years), Intelligence (6 years), Reconnaissance (3 years), System Administrator, Red Hat, Active Directory, System Admin, Vmware, Linux Administrator, Redhat Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: CPL January 2013 to September 2018 Commendations: 3x AAM, 4x COA, 1x GCM, 2x KDSM, 2x OSR, 1x GWOT, 1x NDSM, 1x ASR Awards Army Achievement Medal 2017-02 Army Achievement Medal 2016-01 Good Conduct Medal 2016-01 Korean Defense Service Medal 2016-03 Korean Defense Service Medal 2018-03 Certificate of Achievement 2017-09 Certificate of Achievement 2016-05 Certifications/Licenses Close Access Target Reconnaissance May 2015 to Present Trained and certified in close access target reconnaissance. Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/uupe5ksve5gwx2rd Technical Support — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/rhqqbrm6bmsugyi Proficiency with Microsoft Office: Mail & Calendar (PC) — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate’s proficiency in using Microsoft Office Mail and Calendar tools to manage their workload. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/myzo1txdfqkm6k04 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Groups Order of the Spur January 2016 to Present Additional Information ? Analytical and deductive reasoning ? Active Department of Defense TS/SCI  ? Managing and supervising teams Clearance  ? Advanced computer skills - UNIX/Linux, Mac, ? Security Management  and PC ? Server hardware and networking  ? Server Administration ? Tactical communications system repair  ? Strong interpersonal skills, teamwork ? Excellent writing and presentation skills