Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - ZEPPELIN SYSTEMS USA Inc Tampa, FL I am a hardworking father of 3 boys in search of a part time or better job on nights and weekends to help pay for my 3 amazing boys and show them that hard work pays off. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator ZEPPELIN SYSTEMS USA Inc - Odessa, FL July 2018 to Present • Established a working internal alert system using Netwrix Auditor on the company network.  • Took the initiative to develop a company user training program.  • Monitor network operation, flush out patches, and update drivers and firmware as well as utilizing Zenworks software to automate daily tasks and updates.  • Troubleshoot and resolve issues with both company hardware and software. Lead Bartender TAMPA BAY BREWING COMPANY - Tampa, FL June 2015 to February 2018 As the lead bartender, I was charged with enabling the high volume patio bar to smoothly and efficiently serve locally brewed craft beer and craft cocktails to many of the local area consumers, everyday stock and maintenance of that bar, and ensure the patio staff is knowledgeable and providing guest satisfaction to the highest standard. Team/Squad Leader US ARMY - Fort Benning, GA August 2003 to February 2005 • Responsible for monthly performance reviews for all of the soldiers in my charge  • Training them in proper Army dress and conduct  • Leading them in the right direction as men and as soldiers. Company Communications Specialist/ Rifleman/ Team Leader US ARMY - Schofield Barracks, HI January 2001 to April 2003 • Obtained a security clearance for the use of COMSEC equipment and materials, working under strict rules and regulations of the Army and the FCC.  • Learned to make quick assessments and tactical plans, and then execute the plans to succeed in accomplishing objectives  • Planning and writing operation orders  • Proficient operation of several small arms types including M-4, M249, M240B, M9  • Proficient in Land navigation, survival skills, desert and jungle infantry tactics, urban close-quarters combat training  • Training other company RTO's on radio procedures, tactics, and equipment operation and maintenance  • Responsible for securing, maintaining, and issuing almost $2,000,000 of sensitive communication devices, the entire company's fire control devices for weapon systems, and other mission essential equipment.  • Organizational and time-management skills were essential to my effective performance of these tasks. Education Associate of Science in Cybersecurity in Network Administration and Security ST. PETERSBURG COLLEGE - Saint Petersburg, FL August 2018 Skills Active Directory, System Admin, Vmware, System Administrator Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: Corporal February 1999 to February 2005 I served in the US Army for 6 years and learned more than I ever expected; about myself, people, and life. These trying but growing times allowed me to become a strong leader at work, in the field and at home as well. I started my career as a rifleman in an infantry squad as I became proficient in infantry tactics, land nav, as well as several different weapons and first aid. I also went to a few schools including Air Assault where I learned to rappel, fast rope and rig vehicles and cargo to be moved by helicopter. I then became the platoon leader's right hand man (RTO) and was the best in the company. They promoted me and put me to the company commander's RTO as well as in charge of securing and maintaining all fire control and communications equipment for the company. Upon moving to Ft. Benning, I was put in charge of a squad to support the many Army schools located on post. I worked hard every day to train and instill Army values into each individual soldier in which I was charged. I still have a burning desire to be in an environment where I can help others improve, gain knowledge and lead hard working people in the right direction. Certifications/Licenses Food Handler