Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - 99Cents Only Stores Norwalk, CA • Self-motivated Azure Architect with strong experience in responding to a wide range of challenges with a focused and creative approach. Highly effective at problem solving and decision making with 12 years of progressive IT experience.  • Enterprise-level experience - Working with large teams and involved in architecture of highly scalable, secure, distributed applications, aligned with company standards, process, methodologies, and best practices. Work Experience Systems Administrator 99Cents Only Stores - Commerce, CA April 2015 to Present 90023  ? Managing resources such as CPU & memory on VMware cluster  ? Troubleshooting VM related issues at ESXi host and VM level such as boot issues  ? Gathering requirement and providing suggestion on setup of new VMs.  ? Migrating VMs to another host to mitigate capacity issues and for troubleshooting  ? Restoring VMs from snapshots to troubleshoot and resolve problems.  ? Monitoring host and VM level metrics to address performance related issues  ? Performing capacity planning for required resources for ESXi hosts.  ? Cloning VMs to launch VMs with golden image to minimize the deployment time  ? Working with other technical team to troubleshoot physical hosts and network related issues.  ? Setting up alerts to receive notifications on key metrics and performance indicators  ? Working with VMware support to troubleshoot vendor side issues and ticket monitoring    Windows Server Experience:  ? Installing server roles and features on windows server 2008,2012 &2016  ? Creating DHCP scope and reserving IP addresses on DHCP server and troubleshooting IP address conflicts  ? Creating DNS records on DNS servers and troubleshooting DNS issues.  ? Certificate renewal for web pages hosted on IIS  ? Group policy configuration and management  ? Creating network shares and access management  ? Setting up S2D on for fault tolerance and resiliency  ? Performing failover operation on services on failover cluster  ? Printer server management and troubleshooting  ? Providing required access to users on servers  ? Performing maintenance activities such as upgrading RAM to improve performance  ? Troubleshooting servers for performance related issues  ? Troubleshooting server booting and connectivity issues physically in the datacenter  ? Working on reported incidents and service requests and responding to business users with resolution.  ? Creation applications and packages in SCCM and deploying to servers and user devices.    Azure Cloud Experience:  ? Involved in Strategic planning on migration of on-premise applications to cloud  ? Designed and configured Azure Virtual Networks (VNets), subnets, Azure network settings, DHCP address blocks, DNS settings, security policies and routing.  ? Deployed Azure IaaS virtual machines (VMs) and Cloud services (PaaS role instances) into secure VNets and subnets.  ? Exposed Virtual machines and cloud services in the VNets to the Internet using Azure External Load Balancer.  ? Provided high availability for IaaS VMs and PaaS role instances for access from other services in the VNet with Azure Internal Load Balancer.  ? Implemented high availability with Azure Resource Manager deployment models.  ? Designed Network Security Groups (NSGs) to control inbound and outbound access to network interfaces (NICs), VMs and subnets.  ? Leveraged VNET system routes and underlying route table that holds Local VNet Rules, On-premise Rules, Internet Rules and IP Forwarding as design basis.  ? Designed User Defined Routes with custom route tables for specific cases to force tunneling to the Internet via on premise network and control use of virtual appliances in the customer's Azure environment.  ? Associated routes with VNets via the route table per relationship constraints.  ? Managed IP Forwarding for VMs and role instances acting as virtual appliances  ? Installed, configured, administered, monitored Azure, IAAS and PAAS, Azure AD.  ? Used Windows Azure portal to manage Virtual Network and Traffic Manager  ? Created, managed, monitored VM using Windows Azure portal admin  ? Smoothly created pre-production environments and manage the portion of traffic going to them. Debug in the cloud when needed and roll back if issues are found.  ? Azure Network Configuration - Created resource groups using resource manager which allow to see cost/billing and monitoring information for resources within a resource group and manage access to those resources as a set for individual customer.  ? Attend ongoing client meetings to introduce and answer Azure PAAS and IAAS questions as they arise, covering important application migration considerations and options.  ? Creating and managing subscription and resource groups  ? Creating storage accounts for VMs, files shares, blobs, tables and queues  ? Creating and managing standard and premium data disks for virtual machines  ? Multi-factor authentication and device registration  ? Setting up Azure recovery services vault for disaster recovery/business continuity  ? Setting up Azure backup for VMs, file shares and recovering VMs and files when required  ? Recovering files, folders and VMs using data protection manager  ? Deallocating and downsizing resources to manage cost  ? Tagging resources for tracking and project billing  ? Setting up VM scale sets when identical VMs are required  ? VM image capturing to create VM templates  ? Managing azure resources using PowerShell and Azure CLI  ? Have a good understanding on traffic manager, Azure Databases, Data Lake, Data Factory, Azure Analytics, Event Grid, Logic Apps, Key vault, automation accounts    Office365 Experience:  ? Involved in migrating mailboxes to office365 from on-premise exchange server  ? Creating and managing mailboxes in office365 exchange admin center  ? Creating and managing groups, resources (conference rooms) and mail contacts  ? Creating mail flow rules to mitigate email spam, spoofing, to add disclaimer to emails and restrict email communication among departments  ? Office365 license management such as assigning and reporting on license usage and availability  ? Hybrid exchange server 2013 management and maintenance  ? Performing message trace to troubleshoot mail flow issues  ? ADFS server management and troubleshooting  ? Enabling multifactor authentication and archive mailbox for user accounts  ? Creating connectors to allow communication among on-prem exchange server, office365 and applications  ? Configuring and managing malware, spam, quarantine and connection filter protection settings.  ? Analyzing message header, troubleshooting exchange and SFB connectivity issues using Microsoft connectivity analyzer  ? Azure AD connect management to monitor and resolve AD objects synchronization with office365  ? Converting mailboxes into shared mailboxes as part of the termination process  ? Creating eDiscovery cases and performing content search for legal cases and bulk email deletion on user mailboxes  ? Managing mobile phones from exchange admin center  ? Creating alerts and analyzing anomalous and suspicious behavior using cloud app security  ? Creating and managing device security policies for mobile laptops and surfaces  ? Using threat management explorer to analyze malware trends and top targeted users  ? Using audit log search to analyze user activities and to create alert policies  ? SharePoint and OneDrive Management  ? Exchange and Security power shell modules for troubleshooting and reporting  ? Skype for business & Microsoft Teams management    Active Directory Experience:  ? Creating AD objects such as organizational units, users, distribution &security groups and service accounts  ? Assigning membership to user accounts using PowerShell script and modifying user attributes  ? Enabling/Disabling user accounts based on activation and termination requests  ? Analyzing user attributes using PowerShell commands for security and audit purpose  ? Tracking changes on AD objects by using active directory administrative center  ? Analyzing AD account lockouts on domain controller to find out the source client computer  ? Analyzing user accounts using reports in Audit plus AD360 for login failures and frequent lockouts  ? Exporting AD objects using PowerShell commands for reporting  ? Reporting on active directory users and groups.    AWS Experience & Knowledge:  ? Strong knowledge of Amazon EC2, EFS, EBS, ELB, S3, Workspaces  ? Strong Knowledge of VPC, IAM, Security Groups, ACL, VPC Peering, Elastic IP address, ENI  ? Strong knowledge of SQS, SWF, SNS, SES, Route53  ? Strong knowledge of Cloudwatch, CloudTrail  ? Good knowledge of Aurora, DynamoDB, Redshift, ElasticCache, RDS    Kaspersky Endpoint Security Experience:  ? Kaspersky endpoint security center console management  ? Deploying Kaspersky network agent and security application to server, corporate and store computers  ? KAV policy creation and enforcement based on business requirement and device type  ? Creating and monitoring alerts for virus detection  ? Creating tasks to run database updates and virus scan remotely from security console  ? Whitelisting and blocking applications and web content as and when required  ? Preparing Report on threat analysis for security team on a weekly basis.    McAfee web gateway Management:  ? Allowing/blocking web URLs and IP addresses on McAfee web gateway  ? Troubleshooting traffic blocked by web proxy using rule tracing central  ? Analyzing logs and reports to understand internet traffic across the organization.  ? Enterprise Vault Management:  ? Creating retention policies and administrating enterprise vault server 10.0.4  ? Performing email search for legal cases based on the search criteria from the legal team  ? Creating SOPs on new technologies and issues for future troubleshooting  ? Sharing reports on top issues and action plan to bring down reoccurring issues  ? Having good insight on networking concepts such as IP address subnetting, VLAN and network switches and routers  ? Have an intermediate knowledge about cisco IOS commands  ? Attended District Manager and Regional Directors conference on behalf of IT department to address IT issues. DESKTOP SUPPORT ENGINEER Michaels Stores - Irving, TX January 2014 to March 2015 • Install, upgrade, support and troubleshoot Windows /MAC OS and authorized desktop/laptop applications, hardware, and peripheral equipment  • Coordinate and execute preventative maintenance on computers, laptops and printers.  • Troubleshooting network connectivity related issues on laptops/desktops and printers  • Return defective equipment to maintenance inventory, document customer repairs, maintain and restock parts inventory to maintain spare parts level  • Image deployment using Symantec Ghost & SCCM  • Responsible for preparing Reports from SCCM for inventory and compliance  • Monitor, operate, manage, troubleshoot, and restore service to terminal service clients, PCs, or notebooks, iMAC and Mac books.  • Assisted end-users in using new and existing technology; provided coaching and one-on-one training.  • Performed tape rotation as part of the backup management  • Monitoring server alerts and coordinating with respective teams to resolve issues  • Batch processing using Control-M  • Creating SOPs for executive admins which would help them to support C-level executives  • Troubleshooting video conference devices for video and audio issues.  • Involved in email Setup & Troubleshooting on cellphones.  • Consistently met deadlines and SLA's for most of the service tickets using ServiceNow.  • Responsible for providing documentation on first level troubleshooting to help desk staff. LEVEL2 SUPPORT ANALYST Michaels Stores - Chennai, Tamil Nadu January 2011 to December 2013 • Troubleshooting store computers, scanner guns and pin pad issues.  • Troubleshooting time clock and printer related issues.  • Document tickets with required information and provide proper closure.  • Started at L1 and got promoted as Level 2 support within a year.  • Managed a team of 15 members who worked in different shifts and supported them by providing inputs and guidance as a L2 analyst.  • Responsible for training new recruits and conducting assessments at the end of the training as part of employee onboarding. TECHNICAL SUPPORT REPRESENTATIVE Sutherland Global Services - Chennai, Tamil Nadu January 2007 to December 2010 • Providing remote technical support including troubleshooting software and hardware issues for Symantec antivirus products which includes Norton Antivirus, Norton Internet Security and Norton 360.  • Actively involved in Installation, Activation & Troubleshooting for Norton products  • Interacting with US/ EMEA customers on behalf of the organization to supporting resolving their product related issues.  • Escalating calls, if required to respective teams for virus removal and further troubleshooting  • Got two promotions in consecutive years and was promoted from L1 to L2 and then to l  • Supported a team of 18 members to achieve monthly metrics and performance  • Monitoring call queue for the team to ensure that the calls are answered as per SLA.  • Preparing reports on daily call volume and other metrics. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical and Electronics Engineering Anna University - Vellore, Tamil Nadu 2006 Skills Active directory, Data center, Data center operations, Exchange, Security