Systems Administrator II <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II IT Administrator Winston-Salem, NC Looking for a job with a Company that will allow me to use my vast variety of skills in many areas and that will provide the opportunity to continue to learn and grow. Work Experience Systems Administrator II Replacements, Ltd - McLeansville, NC August 2016 to March 2019 • Responsible for maintenance and upkeep of the company’s Servers  • Manages the Exchange server and Outlook issues and updates  • Set up and monitor the Backups using Varitas Backup Exec 2016  • Manages and create alert criteria to manage Network and Server infrastructure using SolarWinds  (SAM) in tangent with PagerDuty  • Use VMWare to create and maintain a Virtual Machine environment  • Set up internal news networks using the Xibo platform  • Installed and managed the RFGen inventory platform along with Zebra T51 scanners  • Manage all Company Printers and Print Servers  • Perform monthly on call duties to deal with after-hours issues  • Interact with Vendors on maintenance contracts on a daily basis  • Makes, runs, and tests RJ45 cables using CAT 6 wiring as needed  • Setup Server/Roles in 2012 and 2016 environments  • Trouble-shoot network and equipment issues as they arise  • Installed Camera Systems and Applications for security systems IT Administrator ITW Texwipe - Kernersville, NC December 2012 to June 2016 • Performs Active Directory Changes  • Server Maintenance and Management from 2000-2012 Servers   • Database Management using MSSQL and MySQL software   • Inventory tracking of over $1,000,000 work of IT equipment  • Setup SAN and Appassure backup systems  • Setup and Managed Cisco Wireless Access Points  •  Internal Application development using PHP/HTML/CSS/Javascript  • Replace and repair all computers and network equipment  • Set up and program all commercial mobile smart phones and hotspots thru Sprint, AT&T, and Verizon  • Manage Land Line system by Nortel and Wire frame  • Coordinate, ordered, and tracked inventory, vendors, and projects  • Creates documentation on Network, Procedures, and Disaster Recovery  • Setup and maintain Virtual Machines using VMWare and Oracle Virtual Box Implementation Manager Mercury Z - Cary, NC July 2010 to October 2011 • Hired and managed up to 24 employees  • Coordinated schedules in a twenty-four hour environment  • Provided second level technical support  • Managed and developed company's database and associated applications  • Coordinated work flow and priorities  • Created documentation or procedures  • Performed advanced Router and Switch configuration updates in Frontier Cloud network Network Engineer III MCI/Verizon Business - Cary, NC March 1999 to March 2010 • Monitored, tested and coordinated the set up and repair of customers DS0 and DS1 circuits using Whats Up Gold, Espresso, and Spectrum platforms.  • Worked with Frame Relay, ISDN, Analog, PIP, Point-to-Point, VBNS, DSL, and ATM circuits.  • Configured customers Cisco and Juniper Routers and CSUs.  • Developed Web and Database applications for use by departments Engineers.  • Performed Administrator duties on Web and Database servers.  • Conducted duties as shift-lead during weekends and off shifts.  • Traveled to and prepared recovery reports for customers during natural disasters.  • Coordinated the install and delivery of Local and Federal Government agencies circuits.  • Performed on demand hot-cuts for customers upgrading or changing their services Web & Database Developer MCI/Verizon Business - Fuquay-Varina, NC July 1999 to September 2008 • Managed company and customer based Web and Database hosting servers.  • Planned and developed Web applications and sites for customers using HTML, ASP, PHP, Perl, Java Applets, Style-sheets, and XML.  • Developed and maintained customer Databases using Access, Flat-file, MS SQL, and mySQL back ends.  • Provided 24x7 support for customers and their Web and Database related issues.  • Managed wire base and wireless communications between servers and host. Non-Commissioned Officer US Army - Fort Bragg, NC August 1990 to May 1999 • Traveled with, setup and operated Mobile Patch Panel and Switch board communications.  • Deployed and Operated Mobile Special Operations Satellite communications equipment.  • Managed and Electronic Maintenance Shop.  • Managed a Supply room and tracked Unit's budget.  • Supervised the implementation of tactical secure/non-secure Local and Wide Area networks.  • Supervised the well fare and management of up to twelve individuals during unit missions.  • Responsible for training individuals on use of Computers and Equipment.    Awards  • Awarded a 'Hurricane Hero' certificate by the CEO of MCI for recovery efforts during Hurricane Rita and Wilma.  • Awarded 'Who got caught' by Senior Manager for developing a Database driven Master Station Log to track department and customer impacting events.  • Awarded 'Exceptional Employee' by Director of Managed Services for recovery efforts after the September 11 attacks while being deployed to New York to assist in recovery.  • Awarded 'Exceptional Employee' by Department Manager twice for development of Web and Database applications critical for department functionality.  • Special recognition by Verizon Business Account Team representative on timely resolution of issues for Government contracts.  • Army Awards (AAM x1, JSAM x1, ARCOM x3, ASUA x2, SASM x1, GCM x2, COA x5). Education Associate in System Administration Forsyth Technical Community College - Winston-Salem, NC August 2016 to Present Certification in Networking Communications Wake Technical Community College June 2016