Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Newbury Park, CA Certifications and Qualifications  • CompTIA A+ Certification  • CompTIA N+ Certification  • PC Assembly and Troubleshooting  • Win OS XP-10 Installation, Configuration, and Troubleshooting  • Software - Diagnosis, Configuration and Troubleshooting  • Peripherals - Diagnosis, Configuration and Troubleshooting  • Networking Terminology and Capabilities  • Setting Up USB Devices  • Software/Hardware Interfacing  • Laptop and Printer Repair  • Virus and Malware Removal  • Data Recovery Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Wipro - Newbury Park, CA October 2018 to March 2019 Installing and configuring software, hardware and networks. Monitoring  system performance and troubleshooting issues. Ensuring security and efficiency of IT infrastructure Field Services Technician Strategic Data Systems Northrup-Grumman January 2016 to March 2017 Identified performance issues proactively. Performed routine maintenance, worked tickets in a timely fashion to accomplish goals. Worked with a team an alone. Dealt with customers with problems and appropitaley took care of issues. Computer Specialist Ventura County Health Care-Corestaff - Ventura, CA November 2014 to February 2015 Imaged, setup, and deployed 250 pc's and peripherals throughout Ventura County Health Care faculties. Imaged and setup Laptops. Helped end users in the field with troubles. Computer Technician Intern Ventura Unified School District - Ventura, CA February 2014 to April 2014 Worked as a team with two other Interns, installed and replaced 200 desktop and laptop computers in middle and high school computer labs throughout the school district and imaged a total of 700 computers. Freelance Computer Repair Technician Self Employed - Ventura, CA 2004 to 2014 Freelance assignments have included gaining technical expertise by building, repairing, and maintaining computer desktop and network systems for the church community and friends, installing and upgrading software, troubleshooting printer issues, and resolving problems in a timely manner to assure client satisfaction. Self Employed Self Employed - Ventura, CA 2005 to 2013 Previous experience as a community Pastor has included outreach, counseling and ministry to the homeless of Ventura, leading House of Prayer worship, planning and setting up ministry conferences, conducting teaching engagements, and collaborating with other ministries to reach monetary subsistence goals. Established and maintained interpersonal relationships with community members and civic organizations to develop and build teams to strengthen outreach services to the disadvantaged. Education High school Skills System Administrator, Active Directory, Comptia, Help Desk, Desktop Support