Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Berlin, CT To obtain a role in Desktop Support with room to expand my field of knowledge and utilize my existing experience. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Now IT Works - East Hampton, CT September 2017 to Present TECHNICAL HELP DESK ANALYST, ATOS Aetna July 2015 to March 2017 Assigned to Aetna help desk. Diagnosed, troubleshot and resolved all hardware and software issues in a high-volume level one support call center. Logged client and troubleshooting information into a dedicated call-tracking database. Assisted management in tracking and determining cause/resolution of mishandled tickets for all onshore agents in collaboration with representatives from respective offshore teams. Excelled in providing first call resolution via accurate troubleshooting and triaging in an efficient manner. TECHNICAL HELP DESK ANALYST XEROX August 2013 to July 2015 Assigned to Aetna help desk. Diagnosed, troubleshot and resolved all hardware and software issues in a high-volume level one support call center. Logged client and troubleshooting information into a dedicated call-tracking database. Created training materials and provided training in use of web chat communication software. TECHNICAL HELP DESK CONTRACTOR INTEGRATED SYSTEMS ANALYSTS May 2012 to August 2013 Assigned to Aetna help desk. Diagnosed, troubleshot and resolved all hardware and software issues in a high-volume level one support call center. Logged client and troubleshooting information into a dedicated call-tracking database. GEEK SQUAD SENIOR REPAIR TECH BEST BUY September 2009 to May 2012 Provided technical support in a public facing retail environment. Repaired and replaced faulty parts under manufacturer and store warranty guidelines. Installed and customized operating systems in Windows and OS-X families. Created backups and restore images for systems. Performed hardware and software installs and upgrades. Skills Training & Development (5 years), Customer Service (10+ years), Hardware Installation (5 years), Technical Support (10+ years), Office Applications (10+ years), Windows (10+ years), Mac OS X (5 years), VPN (7 years), Active Directory (7 years), Desktop Support (5 years), Help Desk (10+ years), Service Desk (10+ years) Additional Information SKILLS & ABILITIES  • Technical Troubleshooting and Diagnostics  • Hardware Installation and Configuration  • Software Installation and Configuration  • Phone and Online Support  • Customer Service  • User Training and Support