Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. System Administrator Brentwood, CA Work Experience Systems Administrator Brentwood Union School District - Brentwood, CA June 2016 to Present • Install, upgrade, configure and maintain all District’s Office and 11 Schools Network infrastructure including WAN, LAN, wireless, on CISCO switches, firewalls, routers, and network peripherals including a Linux servers for TACACS+ and RANCID.  • Developed and maintained various Linux and Open Source servers for in-house Network and Server monitoring (Nagios), Load Balancing and High availability for the SiS service.  • Configure, maintain, and upgrade CISCO UCS cluster, EMC VNX storage arrays and VMware VSphere and VCenter hypervisor for the districts Virtual Servers (Windows, Linux, Unity).  • Built, configure and maintain Windows virtual and physical servers for DNS, DHCP, Active Directory (AD), GPO, Databases, Email, Web services, Print and Backup.  • Developed, tested and deployed servers and applications for automated Windows 10 installations and/or upgrades. Also, developed new Active Directory Forest and GPO rules to replace existing. Utilized existing servers running Linux and Open Source applications (PXE, SAMBA) for zero cost deployment. Sr. System Administrator Proofpoint - Sunnyvale, CA July 2011 to February 2016 Developed, applied, put in production and continue supporting the Global Vasco VPN authentication  systems utilizing Vasco tokens with redundancy (HA).  • Working with FISMA oriented projects in provisioning, puppet and subversion applications and other  projects.  • Mentoring new members of the team of existing procedures, processes and how-to internal custom  applications utilizing WebEx and other teleconferencing tools.  • Writing and updating internal Wiki for new projects, updates and patches. Also, providing RunBooks for our NOC.  • Managing company-wide internal and external SSL certificates on applications, Load-balancers etc.  Remediation of the Heart-bleed bug.  • Supporting the Proofpoint Support Services including applications, servers, VMs, upgrades, patches, and some database (mysql).  • Provisioning new servers either as "bare metal" or ESXi servers. Creating Vmware Virtual machines in various VLANs to support Company Operations.  • Managing company-wide internal and external DNS utilizing puppet. Sr. System Administrator EMC DCS - San Mateo, CA June 2010 to April 2011 Senior Systems Administrator developed and supported the IT, engineering and POC departments  including the Data Centers.  • Install new and relocate existing servers in the data centers including power distribution, networking  (switches, patch panels, cabling and subnets) and application installations. Developed Data Center  procedures for better system reliability and uptime.  • Migrated system monitoring of all critical systems from an out-sourced company to in-house operations  utilizing Centreon/Nagios utilizing automated email and SMS for alerting. Created the server list off all  Data Centers with all critical information such as location, power consumption, networking, model, serial  numbers, applications, group usage, for properly maintaining the data center for current and future  expansion. List is formatted in excel and also published on the internal Confluence Wiki using Wiki markup  language.  • Developed, installed and maintained ESX VMware servers utilizing vSpheare 4.1, vCenter and custom  scripts.  • Developed various scripts for automating, creating and improving back-ups, OpenVPN and NIS accounts,  re-building DCA clusters, Wrote FAQs and procedures for system operations, installations and other  server and applications related documents. These documents are also formatted and published in the internal Confluence wiki web site. Lead Project Engineer / Managed Services Cisco Systems - San Jose, CA April 2005 to May 2010 Lead project engineer for Cisco's Worldwide Engineering computing resources (EHS). Our Managed  Services team (Sun MST) supported thousands of Cisco servers from United States, Europe, India,  Australia and China.  • Lead the San Jose team consisting of two senior system administrators and a Data Center operator.  Prepare and conduct interviews for hiring additional resources world-wide. Develop and oversee projects for new installations, refreshes and large system upgrades. Develop, mentor and prepare documentation for new processes and projects. Prepare and conduct team meetings utilizing various presentation tools  including, IM, WebEx, teleconferencing and Telepresence.  • Responsibilities include maintaining existing servers, operating systems, applications and creating scripts for automating system monitoring and large batch jobs, including VMware, LDS (openQRM), Teambuilder and LSF Farms. Foundation NIS+, CDS, XDM.  • Data Center setup and maintenance for rack space, networking, power, cooling and cable management  requirements. Lead Data Center walkthroughs to identify any non-standard issues and identify them to  Cisco's Data Center groups and prevent any future failure and installation challenges. Assist and recommend best options for cable management, networks (subnet requirements, redundancy etc.), power  requirements, cooling/ventilation challenges and availability.  • Utilizing Remedy for tracking cases, and operational metrics including pre-defined SLAs and SOPs and general support for the project. Expert in utilizing internal custom applications for batch processing utilizing  very complex scripts to extract, create, update or delete information from the internal system databases.  • Supporting all systems from P1 Sun servers, M4000, V1280, T5120 to P3 Computing Farms using HP  DL360, DL585, Sun x4200, V20z, V40z, Rackable, IBM and other vendors.  • Develop custom, Bourne shell scripts, mosix clusters for batch jobs and other custom internal operations  including Kickstart and Jumstart for multiple computing farms. Senior Principal Multi-Disciplined Engineer NASA Ames Research Center - Moffett Field, CA April 2001 to October 2004 Moffett Field, CA  (Contracted through Raytheon IT Scientific Services)  Senior Principal Multi-Disciplined Engineer  • Senior principal engineer and project developer for NASA Ames Research Center's IT infrastructure.  • Planned, analyzed, and improved existing custom applications and develop new solutions for automating  various procedures including X.500 and LDAP NASA Ames wide services using Syntegra's GDS (Global  Directory), EZ-Finder and Apache servers on Sun Solaris 8 servers including high availability solutions and  FlexLM License servers.  • Followed and applied appropriate measures for improving security and preventing service disruption for  Solaris and Linux Redhat Servers operating systems, Web, ssh, ssl and other related applications and services.  • Collaborated with the NAS (NASA Advanced Supercomputing) Security Administration team.  • Analyzed, planned, installed, configured, and tuned Cobalt farm for the NASA Ames Research Center's  general Web hosting. Customized the x86 Cobalt OS (Redhat distribution) to incorporate TCP Wrappers,  OpenSSH, Radius authentication, centralized patching and backup using the Cobalt Migration Utilities and an Intel Redhat server.  • Installed, configured, and tuned Veritas NetBackup 3.4.1 servers with DLT tape libraries and multiple  operating system clients (Solaris, Linux, Windows and Macintosh).  • Evaluated, planned, tested, and brought into production a High Availability network system consisting of four CISCO 2970 switches and two TopLayer AppSwitches.  • Developed, evaluated, and streamlined PERL and shell scripts for the whole site.  • Analyzed, installed, configured, designed, and tuned TopLayer - Layer 7 switches for email systems and web hosting including load balancing, and high availability.  • Planned, integrated, and configured Neoteris Web Portal cluster with RSA SecurID and Radius  authentication.  • Performed project development and research to evaluate servers and applications to replace existing  centralized Web Search Engine.  • Analyzed and specified electrical power, UPS, cable conduits, rack systems, KVM and other peripheral  requirements for all new data centers.  • Developed, tested, and wrote standard operating procedures (SOP), Project Plans, Test Plans and  Release documentation for all available services including IT Security, Disaster Recovery, and Operations in an ongoing basis. Senior UNIX Administrator Power Integrations, Inc - San Jose, CA April 2000 to March 2001 Power Integrations provided a full relocation package and bonus to move me and my family from  Connecticut to San Jose.  • Analyzed, purchased, integrated, installed, configured, tuned and maintained UNIX, file, Oracle, NIS, DNS,  user and printer servers for the entire corporation. Included Sun Enterprise servers running Solaris 2.6 and 8, and utilizing Veritas VxFS and VxVM for the file systems.  • Planned and implemented all hardware and system related applications for data warehousing (EDAS) and  ERP for Oracle Financial projects utilizing Sun Enterprise servers and storage arrays, E5500, E450, E250 and A3500.  • Evaluated, purchased, installed, configured and tune centralized Veritas NetBackup 3.2 system consisting of a Sun server and AIT-2 tape library of 4 Terabytes capacity.  • Supervised corporate data backup procedures of the company's IT group.  • Part of the IT moving team for the company-wide relocation from Sunnyvale to South San Jose. Included  design and setup of new computer room with the inclusion of backup generator and UPS.  • Maintained, Sun Solaris 2.6, 2.8 and HP HPUX 11 workstations for the silicon wafer testers' data  acquisition. Senior UNIX Administrator / CRAY Supercomputing Specialist Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals - Ridgefield, CT September 1995 to April 2000 Analyzed, purchased, integrated, installed, configured, tuned and maintained Sun SGI and HP, file,  Netscape and Apache Web servers, FlexLM license servers, data and printer servers for the R&D  Division.  • Developed procedures for remote operating system maintenance and application installations utilizing  BOOTP, NFS, Roboinst, and custom Bourne and Korn shell scripts.  • Installed, configured and tuned NIS, DNS, NFS, autoFS and automount as required. Established secure  remote access for the scientists utilizing UNIX configured modems and PPP connections in collaboration with the networking group.  • Designed, installed and configured centralized backup and archiving using Legato Networker, ATL 4/52 and P3000 DLT-7000 tape libraries and local SCSI 8mm and DDT tape drives.  • Installed, configured and maintained multi-processor CRAY J90 super-computer, using Network Queuing  System and evaluated a Linux cluster for distributing computing.  • Purchased, managed and tuned SGI scientific workstations and peripherals for the Radiography,  Computational Chemistry and Bioinformatics departments.  • Researched, purchased, installed and configured visualization devices, scientific equipment integration,  printers, and plotters.  • Provided customer support and training on UNIX, applications and workstations for the scientists including  customization and troubleshooting.  • Managed and monitored all of the above using IRIS-Console, custom scripts and OpenView.  • Established and created standard operating procedures (SOP) for above systems. UNIX Systems Engineer / MIS Lead Pratt Institute, Academic Computing - Brooklyn, NY February 1987 to September 1995 Configured and administered SUN UNIX servers and workstations, Silicon Graphics workstations,  PowerPC Macintosh, and MS-DOS/Windows clients.  • Evaluated, purchased and installed applications for integrating UNIX, DOS, MS-Windows and Macintosh  computers for application, file and I/O device sharing. Trained, scheduled and supervised 15 assistants.  • Initiated, installed and administered campus-wide Internet node with ftp and developed Web server.  • Installed e-mail server for internal and worldwide communications.  • Wrote custom Bourne and Korn shell scripts for managing Internet user accounts and sendmail (about  1,500) and custom login menus utilizing NIS+, NFS and automount.  • Purchased, installed, configured and supported ALIAS, AutoCAD, 3D-Studio, Animator, Adobe  PhotoShop, Freehand, PageMaker and Microsoft Suite.  • Appointed Systems Manager in Federal Title III grant. Duties included analyzing, researching and implementing hardware and software components for the development of three new computer laboratories  (SGI, PC and Macintosh).  • Prepared and conducted software and hardware seminars for Pratt faculty, staff and students.  • Worked with directors, managers, faculty and support staff to assess and administer to Institute's needs.  • Organized and executed the on campus Apple MacAcademia events. Education Bachelor's in Engineering, Mechanical Pratt Institute - Brooklyn, NY Skills Vmware (9 years), Linux (10+ years), System Administrator (10+ years), Active Directory (3 years), Windows Server (3 years), Solaris (10+ years), Cisco iOS (3 years), Active Directory (3 years), Cisco UCS (3 years), Veeam (3 years), Nagios (5 years), TACACS+ (3 years), SAMBA (5 years), EMC VNX (3 years) Awards Proofpoint, Inc. – Customer Satisfaction Award 2013-01 Raytheon ITSS – Exceptional Service Award 2002-01 Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals - Ingot Golden Achievements Award for Exceptional Customer Satisfaction 1999-01