Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Winchester, CA I haves more than 15 years of experience in administrative and technical fire direction operations, including eight years of experience with Command, Control, and Communications, Computers and Intelligence (C4I) Surveillance and Reconnaissance (C4ISR) systems. Mr. Parker has over 10 years of experience with the installation, system administration and maintenance in Advanced Field Artillery Tactical Data System (AFATDS) tactical and technical employment at all echelons in the fire support community. Mr. Parker Has more than more than 12 years of experience with Global Command and Control Systems(GCCS) system administration, software installation, configuration of software, installation of IAVA patches and assisting IA (Information Assurance) personnel with the implementation of ACAS scans. Mr. Parker has more than fiver years of experience in instructional billets to include 11th Marines Artillery Training School as well as the 1st Marine Expeditionary Force (I MEF) Combined Arms Staff Trainer/Training Set Fire Observation (TSFO), Expeditionary Warfare Training Group Pacific (EWTGPAC) and 12 years of experience in computer systems analysis. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Lockheed Martin - San Diego, CA August 2017 to Present System Engineer/ Administrator for Saudi Royal Navy    •Serves a Global Command and Control Joint (GCCS-J) system administrator for the Saudi Royal Navy.  •Performs day to day system analysis.  •Performs all software upgrades.  •Assist shift workers with a variety of computer issues as required.  •Responsible for Common Operational Picture (COP) within the Air Control Center (AOC). Command Post System Advisor (CPSA) Engility Corp - San Diego, CA - Manama, Bahrain May 2012 to January 2017 Forward (FWD) and Command Element (CE) 5th Marine Expeditionary Brigade (MEB) aboard Naval Support Activities (NSA) Base, Bahrain as part of the Global Command and Control System/ Tactical Combat Operations (GCCS/TCO) project based at SPAWAR Charleston.  • Mr. Parker was Responsible for the day to day administration, and operation of GCCS 4x servers, to include, configuration of software, software installation, and installation of IAVA patches. Worked extensively with CENTCON, Tampa and CENTCONFWD Coop Site, Al Udied personnel with connection issues and COP Synchronization Tools (CST).  • Managed Virtual Machines (VM'S) that hosted several C2 clients to include the C2PC Gateway and the Joint Automated Deep Operations Coordination System (JADOCS).  • Was a major contributor in the daily operations on the Combat Operations Center (COC), to include planning for Exercises Eager Lion 2015 and 2016 (Amman Jordan), and Exercise Native Fury in (Duqm Oman). Directly responsible for the functionality and connectivity of all Command and Control systems to include the Tactical COP Server (TCS), Tactical COP Workstation (TCW), Agile Client, Agile Server, and the Command and Control Personal Computer (C2PC).  • Supported Commanders Task Force (CTF) 51 with all C2 functions in a joint environment within the 5th MEB COC.  • Supported Marine Forces Areas of Responsibility (AOR) in Regional Command South West (RCSW) while forward deployed to Camp Leatherneck Afghanistan, and Central Command (CENTCOM) forward forces Afghanistan.  • Was a major contributor in the planning, implementation, and operations of 3rd MAW Tactical Air Control Center (TACC) during Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF) and key contributor in integrating new technologies within the TACC, thin client capability using both CENTRIX and SIPR networks to host IOS(V1) track data and server based gateways for Joint Tactical COP Workstation(JTCW), Command and Control Personal Computer (C2PC), Joint Battlespace Viewer (JBV); rollout out of new collaborative tools to include (T-Chat) Transverse Chat, maintenance of the RC(SW) XMPP server and other servers which hosted several key applications which supported not only the forward Marine Forces areas of responsibility (AOR), but to include (RCSW),Central Command (CENTCOM) Forward, and Central Command.  • Was a major contributor in the planning, implementation, and operations of Regional Command Southwest (RCSW) during Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF) and key contributor in integrating new technologies within the COC, thin client capability using and SIPR networks to host Tactical COP Server (TCS) track data and server based gateways for Joint Tactical COP Workstation (JTCW), Command and Control Personal Computer (C2PC), Joint Battlespace Viewer (JBV); rollout out of new collaborative tools to include (T-Chat) Transverse Chat, maintenance of the RC(SW) XMPP server and other servers which hosted several key applications which supported not only the forward Marine Forces areas of responsibility (AOR), but to include Regional Command South West (RCSW),Central Command (CENTCOMFWD Forward), and Central Command (CENTCOM). Command Post System Advisor (CPSA) L-3 Communications - San Diego, CA September 2005 to May 2012 - Computer Systems Analyst II    • 3rd Marine Aircraft Wing (3rd MAW) Common Operational Picture (COP) manager in garrison and forward deployed as part of the Global Command and Control System/ Tactical Combat Operations (GCCS/TCO) project based at SPAWAR Charleston.  • Mr. Parker was Responsible for the day to day administration, and operation of GCCS 4x servers, to include, configuration of software, software installation, and installation of IAVA patches.  • Served as COP manager for 3rd MAW for several deployments in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom (OIF).  • Maintains and trained 3rd MAW staff in the use and employment of fielded tactical Command, Control, Communications, Computers, and Intelligence (C4I) systems, to include Global Command and Control System (GCCS), Intelligence and Operations Server IOS (V1), Tactical COP Server (TCS), Intelligence and Operations Workstation (IOW), Tactical COP Workstation (TCW), Joint Tactical COP Workstation (JTCW); Joint Battlespace Viewer (JBV), Blue Force Tracker (BFT), and Miniature Transmitter (MTX).  • Advises 3rd MAW Staff on new technologies.  • As a CPSA, is knowledgeable in Instructional Systems Design (ISD).  • Major contributor in the planning, implementation, and operations of 3rd MAW Tactical Air Control Center (TACC) during Operation Iraqi Freedom (OIF) and. key contributor in integrating new technologies within the TACC, thin client capability using CITRIX to host Joint Automated Deep Operations Coordination System (JADOCS), server based gateways for Command and Control Personal Computer (C2PC), rollout out of new collaborative tools to include Tactical Collaborative Work Suite (TCWS), mIRC, Info Workspace (IWS) and Adobe Connect, training the use and maintenance of the servers which hosted several key applications which supported not only the forward Marine Forces Areas of Responsibility (AOR), but to include Multi-National Forces-Iraq (MNF-I), Multi-National Corps-Iraq (MNC-I), Central Command (CENTCOM) Forward, and Central Command(CENTCOM).  • Managed SharePoint permissions and instrumental in the training of 3d MAW personnel.  • Supported Marine Forces areas of responsibility (AOR) in Regional Command South West (RCSW) while forward deployed to Camp Leatherneck Afghanistan, and Central Command (CENTCOM) forward forces Afghanistan.  • Was a major contributor in the planning, implementation, and operations of 3rd MAW Tactical Air Control Center (TACC) during Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF) and key contributor in integrating new technologies within the TACC, thin client capability using both CENTRIX and SIPR networks to host IOS(V1) track data and server based gateways for Joint Tactical COP Workstation(JTCW), Command and Control Personal Computer (C2PC), Joint Battlespace Viewer (JBV); rollout out of new collaborative tools to include (T-Chat) Transverse Chat, maintenance of the RC(SW) XMPP server and other servers which hosted several key applications which supported not only the forward Marine Forces areas of responsibility (AOR), but to include (RCSW),Central Command (CENTCOM) Forward, and Central Command. Training Specialist Titan Corp - San Diego, CA August 2004 to September 2005 • Responsible for conducting Command and Control Personal Computer (C2PC) training systems analysis and training support for the Expeditionary Warfare Training Group, Pacific (EWTGPAC) in San Diego, CA.  • Worked closely with the active duty Marine course manager of the Unit Operation Specialist (UOS) and Ground Operations Specialist (GOS) Courses on classroom setup, and instruction of course material.  • Analyzed training requirements and identified training methodologies to improve current training.  • Responsible for defining technical support requirements, coordinating tasks, developing technical documentation and maintaining reference materials on C2PC functions, including Track Management and Overlays. Artillery Operations Chief United States Marine Corps - San Diego, CA October 1984 to November 2004 • Responsible for defining technical support requirements, coordinating tasks, developing technical documentation and maintaining reference materials on C2PC functions, including Track Management and Overlays.  • Was responsible for providing tactical and technical Marine Air-Ground Task Force (MAGTF) Fires support solutions to MEF commanders and his own personnel while serving as a Battery Operations Chief and Watch Chief in the Combat Operations Center (COC).  • Supervised the daily operations of the 11th Marines COC.  • Responsible for the training the development, implementation, requirements analysis and instruction of department personnel while serving as Operations Chief and Artillery Training School Instructor.  • Provided support on current fires support and C4I systems such as AFATDS, Intelligence and Operations Workstation (IOW), Intelligence and Operations Server (IOS), Effects Management Tool (EMT) and C2PC.  • Conducted requirements analysis to assist in the identification, refinement, and documentation of AFATDS operational requirements.  • Supervised daily operations of the Indoor Simulated Marksmanship Trainer and was responsible for maintaining equipment and scheduling.  • Maintained technical and training documentation including researching new training material, ordering documentation and supplements and establishing an inventory control system for all documentation  • Gulf War and Operation Iraqi Freedom veteran.    AFATDS Supervisor and Operator  • Was responsible for providing battalion-level support for AFATDS and other C2PC systems.  • Directed a team of ten Marines on MAGTF projects, including AFATDS and Fires Support Operations.  • Participated actively in course development, including ordering documents, publications and reference materials and updating systems training manuals as necessary. Education Bachelors Degree in Information Technology in Perusing a Bachelors in Information Tecnology University of Phoenix-Online Campus March 2019 to Present Associate in Information Technology University of Phoenix-Online Campus - Phoenix, AZ February 2018 to March 2019 HS Diploma John Carroll Catholic High School - Birmingham, AL June 1981 Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), PCs (10+ years), Systems Analyst (10+ years), System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory Military Service Branch: Mariner Corps Service Country: United States Rank: SSgt October 1984 to October 2004 Artillery Operations Chief MOS (0848) Awards Navy Commendation Medal 1997-07 Navy Commendation Medal 2004-10 Navy Achievement Medal 1999-05 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ February 2017 to February 2020 COMP001020327756 Additional Information Software/Applications:  • Microsoft Office Suite  • Microsoft Windows    Program Languages:  • UNIX,Solaris 10    Hardware:  • IBM and Compatible PCs