Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - SUPREME LENDING Dallas, TX Work Experience Systems Administrator SUPREME LENDING - Dallas, TX April 2018 to Present Supporting both Systems Infrastructure team and Information Security team with the following highlights:  • Redesign and implement Microsoft RDS (Remote Desktop Service) to support over 2,500 users.  • Lead the implementation and administration of DUO MFA, adding multi factor authentication to strengthen the environment security.  • Primary administrator for the entire ProofPoint suite including Email Protection, DLP (Data Loss Protection), Targeted Attack Protection, and Threat Response.  • Work closely with the company CISO for any incident response including emails attack and account takeover.  • Administer and maintain Microsoft environment including but not limit to Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange  • Manage VMware 6x environments.   • Primary CommVault administrator for emails archiving to meet compliance requirement.   • Mentor junior System Administrators on Backup (using Veeam) and Windows Deployment systems (using WDS and MDT).   • Participate in Disaster Recovery design and implementation using VMware SRM.  Operation/Production IT Systems Engineer NIHON KOHDEN AMERICA - Irvine, CA October 2016 to April 2018 Spearhead in the design and implementation of Windows deployment using WDS and MDT 2013 to replace  legacy Symantec Ghost solution, reducing 90% of company production time and saving more than $10,000 in storage cost.  * Rebuild the entire production infrastructure, adding redundancy, alert monitoring, and disaster recovery using  100% virtualization on a VMware vSphere 6.5 cluster. Continue improving system integrity.  * Tier 3 System Engineer supporting nationwide hospital IT customers on Neurology server products.  * Test, create, and package Neurology software into Windows master images for mass production on different  computer/server platforms.  * Implement and install Neurology servers and networks on customer hospital environment to ensure HIPAA  compliance. Corporate IT Systems Administrator Cisco UCS August 2015 to October 2016 * Administer corporate Active Directory infrastructure and troubleshoot related issues.  * Redesign and implement disaster recovery and backup solution using Veeam Enterprise Backup and Replication,  replacing Symantec Backup Exec to meet both RPO and RTO requirements.  * Research and centralize assets management using 3rd party solution (Lan Sweeper).  * Manage VMWare VCenter 5.5 on a Cisco UCS 5180 servers cluster using NetApp DS2246 SAN solution.  * Administer corporate Microsoft Exchange 2010.  * In charge of testing and deploying servers and clients OS patches and updates to comply with company's security  requirements using WSUS.  * Configuring modular infrastructure using Dell PowerEdge VRTX with multiple server blades, building High  Availability and Fault Tolerance with VMware vSphere 6.x for production Network team to fulfill customer's  requirements. Senior Systems Administrator VIANT, INC - Irvine, CA March 2013 to August 2015 Manage a multi-forests, multi-domains Microsoft Active Directory environment with the remit of maintaining  performance and troubleshooting issues and defects to all components including but not limit to: Permission  Delegation, DNS, DHCP, Group Policies, Sites and Services, and Print Services.  * Design, install, and maintain Enterprise backup system for critical applications, including Exchange, Active  Directory, Financial Application, SCCM, Lync, Sharepoint, and File Servers over MPLS Circuit.  * Facilitate the migration of over 1000 mailboxes post-installation through the installation and configuration of Microsoft Exchange 2010/2013 clustered environments.  * Design, install, and maintenance the Key Management Service Server to ensure all Microsoft Windows and Office clients are active.  * Generate savings of more than $10K annually through research and implementation of the TeamViewer remote  desktop solution to replace LogMeIn.  * Administer and maintain multi-sites VMWare clusters 5.x/4.x with more than 200 VMs.  * Project Managing: spearhead the relocation of four branch offices, encompassing planning, liaising between Network Engineers and vendors, as well as moving the network, servers, and users' workstations with minimal  downtime and disruption.  * Perform datacenter migration of over 80 VMs from an UCS/ESX 4.1 to an UCS/ESX 5.5 cluster.  * Migrated over 100 mailboxes from Google Mail Service to on premise Exchange.  * Install and maintain a central assets tracking server utilizing Linux and open source software to allow greater  efficiency in tracking and administering company assets such as desktops, laptops, mobile devices, and software  licenses.  * Build and deploy Windows servers according to applications requirements. Monitor systems health and makes  recommendations for additional resources and hardware.  * Perform quarterly data recovery testing and validation of critical applications. Plan and provision infrastructure  patching and audit privileged permissions to meet Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) requirement.  * Maintain VM network for testing and developing purposes. System automation with PowerShell scripts.  * Storage administrations including provisioning volumes for servers on various SAN systems: Dell Compellent,  NetApp 7-Mode, and HP 3PAR.  * Experience with Secured Data Center Operations. Understand networking concepts.  * Serve as Tier 3 support and assist Tier 2 engineers with support issues as required. Contract Project & Support Engineer TEKSYSTEMS - Newport Beach, CA February 2012 to March 2013 Responsible for the collective upgrade and migration of over 2500 computers from Windows XP to Windows 7;  collaborated with vendors to ensure appropriate testing and software compatibility prior to migration.  * Provided technical support to users within an enterprise environment comprising of more than 4000 computers.  Diagnosed hardware issues and implemented installation of multiple network and local printers.  * Managed the establishment of user accounts, workstations, and printers in alignment with departmental standards. Primary CommVault administrator for emails archiving to meet compliance requirement 2010 to 2010 2010, Sharepoint, DFSR & DFSN, and WSUS.  * Manage VMware 6x environments.  * Primary CommVault administrator for emails archiving to meet compliance requirement.  * Mentor junior System Administrators on Backup (using Veeam) and Windows Deployment systems (using WDS  and MDT).  * Participate in Disaster Recovery design and implementation using VMware SRM. Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/alexhuynh182