Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Charlotte, NC • Five plus years of IT support experience within the enterprise environment.  • Two years of Systems Administrator experience within the enterprise environment.  • Hold two degrees (B.S - Computer Information Systems and M.S - Information Technology) in the fields of Technology and Business.  • Reliable, detail oriented and results driven IT professional with superb team development and leadership skills. Work Experience Systems Administrator CIRCOR Pumping Technologies - Monroe, NC June 2017 to June 2019 • Responsible for the maintenance and support of all systems, peripherals, applications, security, and network configurations within required SLA.  • Re-imaged user laptops and desktops using SCCM.  • Created and supported user accounts in Cisco Unity for support of the Cisco VOIP desk phones.  • Used Active Directory to reset user passwords, move users to specified groups for application access (GPO), and to move the host machines to the correct OU.  • Supported the user iPhones and was the main contact for the vendor to add new phone plans and order iPhones for the users.  • Tier 2 support within the server environment for network printer support and user application issues. Mobile Messaging Administrator Old Dominion Freight Line Inc - Thomasville, NC October 2016 to June 2017 • Configured, deployed, and supported user smartphones and tablets using AirWatch MDM.  • Assisted end users with email, skype for business, and message archiving issues and requests.  • Maintained inventory of mobile devices and accessories using SAP.  • Used Exchange Server 2013 to support the enterprise outlook accounts.  • Assisted with the deletion of user emails on the Exchange Server. Desktop Support Technician Old Dominion Freight Line Inc - Thomasville, NC September 2015 to October 2016 Identified, troubleshooted and resolved hardware, software and network-related problems  encountered by end-users of the district network (LAN), the mainframe, and PCs.  • Build/used Acronis images for user laptops and Desktops.  • Installed and configured Avaya application and desk phones for users.  • Provided tier 2 technical support to corporate staff. Help Desk Support - PC-Technician Old Dominion Freight Line Inc - Thomasville, NC March 2015 to September 2015 • Responsible for first response in answering, commenting and replying to open incidents in the help desk.  • Identified and organized tickets according to priority and escalated tickets to the appropriate teams.  • Provided tier 1/2 technical support to corporate staff.  • Taken part in a 24/7/365 on call rotation cycle to resolve user issues outside of business hours. Desktop Support Technician Old Dominion Freight Line Inc - Thomasville, NC December 2014 to March 2015 • Assisted staff with the installation, configuration, and ongoing usage of desktop computers, peripheral equipment and software within established standards and guidelines.  • Worked with the company team members to resolve technical problems with desktop computing equipment and software.  • Ensured desktop computers interconnect seamlessly with diverse systems including associated validation systems, file servers, email servers, computer conferencing systems, application servers, and administrative systems.  • Assisted the desktop support team with imaging user laptops and desktops. Desktop Support Technician Compucom / State Farm Insurance Agency - Greensboro, NC November 2014 to December 2014 • Provided a single point of contact for end users to receive support and maintenance within the organization's desktop computing environment this includes installing, diagnosing, repairing, maintaining and upgrading all PC hardware and equipment to ensure optimal workstation performance.  • Troubleshooted problem areas (in person, by telephone, or via email) in a timely manner, and provided end-user assistance where required.  • Installed new network printers for the users.  • Instructed the users on how to use the new network printers. IT Specialist Lead ABBTECH Professional Resources, Inc., Greensboro - Charlotte, NC January 2014 to November 2014 • Supported Migration Project for Royal Bank of Canada (RBC).  • Updated Bios and Firmware for Windows 7 Images.  • Installed and transferred the end user's documents to the upgraded desktop.  • Installed the new laptops and peripherals for the users.    Education/Enrichment  • North Carolina Agriculture & Technical State University - Greensboro, NC  -Master of Science, Information Technology  • Saint Augustine's College -- Raleigh, NC  -Bachelor of Science, Computer Information Systems Education Master's Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, DNS, TCP/IP, CITRIX, SCCM, System Administrator