Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Saint Augustine, FL Versatile IT professional with extensive program and project management experience with a strong emphasis on customer retention. Proven ability to lead cross-functional teams to achieve results and meet deliverables. Results-focused with strong aptitude for identifying and resolving business and technical challenges. Accomplished in creating solutions that meet business, technology and budget requirements in highly regulated industries. Decisive leader and results-oriented professional, recognized for taking on major initiatives, adapting to rapidly changing environments and resolving mission critical issues to ensure bottom line success. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Tri-State Luxury Collection - Edison, NJ 2016 to 2019 Led the design, implementation and maintenance of applications and daily operations of systems infrastructure and resources for over 400 Mercedes Benz and Lexus users across 4 sites and assisted with an additional eight Jaguar/Land Rover, BMW, and Audi stores during periods of high workflow. Ensured appropriate measures and processes were implemented for management of all systems, business continuity, disaster recovery deployment and implementation. Provided support/ administration for the virtual server and the network environment to maintain connectivity, capacity, upgrade planning, and resolve end user problems. Delivered desktop support by assessing issues and implementing Windows, software and hardware solutions as well as individualized solutions and training.  Key Achievements:  * Slashed IT budget by $75K annually by eliminating the need for a Managed Service Provider by building the business' own network stack.  * Implemented and coordinated Tri-State Luxury's E-cycling Program that sourced local vendors to recycle the electronic waste and later integrated the program to all dealerships throughout the tri-state area.  * Lexus Edison / Lexus Bridgewater Acquisition Project: Wiped, imaged, and added new domain to all of Lexus Of Edison / Lexus of Bridgewater that included the entire workstation infrastructure into Tri-State's network within a two-day period. Led a team of six in establishing the new site container and added all users and computers into the Server 12 R2 tree, and deployed new workstations, printers, scanners, copiers, VOIP phones, and peripherals. General Manager Custom Electronic Design - Barnegat, NJ 2010 to 2016 Delivered technical solutions to support the organization's vision and strategic direction, managing the complete lifecycle of moderately-to-highly complex projects, ensuring adherence to timeline, scope, objectives, and budget. Responsible for the proper function of cross-functional teams in coordination with the established priorities and timelines for the design and implementation of voice, data, video, LANS, and wireless network systems for residential and commercial clients. Collaborated with electricians, architects, builders, and design firms in order to establish solutions that solved business problems.  Key Achievements:  * Increased revenue by 35% by establishing profitable alliances with local contractors, networking, and promoting the organization through social media. Project Manager Frankentek Residential Systems - Medford, NJ 2007 to 2010 Lead Technician Frankentek - Medford, NJ 2007 to 2010 Directed and oversaw a project team to deliver electronic installations domestically and internationally. Leveraged deep technology and process expertise to drive execution across multiple interdependent projects and outlined a multi-generational project strategy aligned to deliver on the expected outcomes and defined execution methodologies. Advanced knowledge of termination and connectors; T568 A & B, RJ 45/ 11, speaker, AMX, Crestron, HDMI, DVI A/ D/ I, Component, Composite, & S-Video, IR & RF.  Key Achievement:  * Led the turnaround of the installation of Access Controls and Desk Array Sensor Systems on My Eclipse, the largest privately-owned yacht, located in Germany, to get the project back on the proposed schedule. Education A+ in Information Technology ServFast Computers - Toms River, NJ June 2015 to December 2015 Vmware VCA-DCV in Information Technology ServFast Computers - Toms River, NJ June 2015 to December 2015 High school or equivalent in General Manalapan High School - Manalapan, NJ June 1994 Skills Itil, System configuration, Full life cycle, Life cycle, Training, Problem resolution, Active Directory, System Administrator, Vmware, Troubleshooting (10+ years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/mikeredpathtechspert/ Military Service Branch: US Navy Service Country: United States Rank: P.O. 3rd Class Interior Communications 1995 to 1999 Maintained, repaired and operated interior communications systems, operating broadcast TV and radio systems and SITE (Shipboard Information, Training and Entertainment) CCTV systems.  Key Achievement:  § ESWS- Enlisted Surface Warfare Specialist  § National Defense Service Medal   § Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal   § Navy "E" Ribbon   § Sea Service Deployment Ribbon  Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ Vmware VCA-DCV CEDIA Certified Installer 1 Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/wqq-u1wrzhw2rk-u Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Groups Veterans of Foreign Wars Present American Legion Present