Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Royal Palm Beach, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Telit IoT Platform - Boca Raton, FL March 2017 to Present • Helped manage,deploy, and monitor over 500+ AWS linux-based web servers  • Designed and Developed tools using GOLANG to create cost auditing tools, automated server creation, and other useful applications  • Monitored and maintained multiple MongoDB clusters as well as utilized MongoDB to catalog our cost analysis tool.  • Provided 24/7 support to keep platform up.   • Deployed software patches via jenkins Software Developer Security101 - West Palm Beach, FL June 2016 to March 2017 ? Helped in the process of converting a large project from ASP in Visual Basic to MVC and C#  ? Utilize AngularJS along to create views that would retrieve and store data.   ? Utilize SQL to write queries, stored procedures, and views to display, use, or store data  ? Help in designing and implementing projects as well as helping to create a timeline for projects to be completed.  ? Assist in a Tech Support role to help the users of our software. Website Developer Digital Target Marketing - West Palm Beach, FL October 2012 to June 2016 Performed in a rigorous environment where turn-around times could be less then a day  • Use .NET, javascript, and javascript libraries such as jquery to build and maintain hundreds of websites.  • Manage a small team of 2 people in completing the day to day requirements for production  • Recommended and executed plans to improve development tools and processes.  • Built programs to send confidential order data based off user requirements.    Technology Summary    • Visual Studios, C, C++, C#, XML/HTML, JavaScript, Jquery, Ajax, CSS, ASP.Net, Eclipse IDE, Java, Andriod SDK, SVN, Team City, Windows, MS Office Suite, Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering Florida Atlantic University - Boca Raton, FL 2014 Skills Visual Studios , C#, XML/HTML, JavaScript, Jquery, Ajax, CSS, ASP.Net, Andriod SDK, SVN, Team City, Windows, MS Office Suite, AngularJS, Go, MongoDB, Linux. Nagios, Amazon Web Services, System Administrator, System Admin, Linux, Aws (2 years), Linux Administrator Additional Information Engineering Design Project:   Project Scope: Worked as the team leader of a 3 member team to design and develop a multidisciplinary device that measured a users repetitions and heart while they would participate in weight lifting or cardiovascular activities. The device a light weight device worn as a glove that communicated with an Android application that would display and store the users data. The Android application was developed with Java using the Andriod SDK.   Tools: Java, C/C++, Arduino IDE, Eclipse IDE, and Andriod SDK