Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Port Chester Carver Center Port Chester, NY Work Experience Systems Administrator Port Chester Carver Center January 2016 to Present Deploying, maintaining, configuring, and upgrading Windows, Linux, Apache, and Nginx servers.  ? Best practices in place, use of monitoring tools, strict firewall rules, sudo, selinux, etc  ? Analyzing and resolving problems with file shares, applications, and hardware  ? Active Directory management.  ? Established and adjusted roles, permissions, OUs, Group Policy as needed  ? Virtualization technology.  ? Hyper-V, VMware, VirtualBox  ? AD, DNS, DHCP, GPO management.  ? Network planning, deployment, and configuration.  ? HTTP, HTTPS, TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, Telnet, SSH, SMTP, SNMP, LDAP, Kerberos, LAN, WAN, VLAN  ? Routers, access points, firewall appliances (pfSense), PoE, (un)managed switches  ? VPN technologies like OpenVPN and IPsec/L2TP  ? Office 365 administration.  ? Domain Name configuration  ? Record management (A, AAAA, CNAME, MX, DKIM, etc)  ? IT project management.  ? Planned and deployed VoIP solution  ? Deployed UniFi WiFi solution throughout facility  ? Migrated org website from third party to a VPS on a LAMP stack  ? Creating documentation for past, current, future technologies  ? Tasked with planning and executing network upgrades/expansions and reconfigurations (L2 + L3 devices)  ? Website development and administration.  ? Windows IIS, Apache, Nginx, WordPress  ? HTML, CSS, PHP development  ? Website analytics, eCommerce, visual customization, mobile-friendly experiences  ? SSL, firewall, and best practices enforced  ? Installed and configured CCTV hardware and software.  ? Troubleshooting software and hardware, removal or installation of new computers and/or peripherals and components.  ? Established Spiceworks ticket system and procedures in 2016.  ? Assigning tickets appropriately, while also documenting updates and resolutions.  ? Deployed a modified version of existing open source software, a self-hosted ticket system, and migrated from Spiceworks in late 2018. Help Desk Technician/Receptionist Port Chester Carver Center November 2014 to December 2016 Exceed in role requiring the ability to handle a variety of customer service and administrative tasks and resolve customer issues.  ? Quickly learned bookkeeping skills and applied to role, able to make transactions and utilize Excel.  ? Assisted customers with membership renewals, purchasing products, and informing and providing services to our new and existing clientele. Education High School Diploma Port Chester High School 2011 Skills Active directory, Dhcp, Css, Dns, Lamp, Sftp, Ftp, Html, Php, Linux, Cctv, Windows 7, Mac, Wordpress, Vmware, System Administrator, System Admin, Linux Administrator Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ February 2017 to February 2020 Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/9qkesc1utormize Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/hkw87px7hutfuyat Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.