Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Sterling, VA Result-oriented, IT professional, equipped with a decade of experience ranging from Desktop Support to Network & Server Administration with great communication skills and deductive problem solving. Current Public Trust Government Security Clearance. Work Experience Systems Administrator Segue Technologies Inc - Washington, DC November 2018 to Present • Install, configure, and reconfigure computers, servers, Virtual Machines (VMs) and network hardware  • Maintenance and patch management of all computers, servers and network hardware (including installing windows updates and anti-virus definitions)  • Monitor systems to detect failures, poor performance and determine system availability  • Troubleshoot system failures, poor performance and correct accordingly to restore system availability  • Ensure that the production environment is fully functional and is performing as specified  • Ensure that systems and networks are running and available during the defined hours of operation  • Schedule systems operations activities and tasks on a recurring basis to minimize user impact and system down time  • Implement non-emergency service requests during scheduled outages (e.g. weekly maintenance windows)  • Maintain a complete inventory of agency hardware, licensed software and systems.  • Interface with other functional areas for day-to-day checks/corrections  • Comply with and enforce Interconnection Security Agreements and Memorandums of Understanding  • Ensure that service level objectives are kept accurate and are monitored  • Ensure all processes, manual and automated, are documented in the operating procedures and comply with the system documentation  • Monitor security controls and performance statistics, report the results, and escalate problems when they occur  • Ensure regularly scheduled jobs are submitted and completed correctly  • Perform configuration, security and design reviews/audits to ensure software, system, parameter, and configuration are correct and effectively support the needs of PFMD  • Complete incident reports when there are any production system outages, identifying application(s) affected, duration of outage and cause  • Maintain all IT resources in a secure manner in accordance with DOI NPS policies Network System Administrator Kyocera Industrial Ceramics - Hendersonville, NC August 2014 to Present • Eastern Region Network System Admin with multi office including NY, NJ, GA, NC, TX.  • Configure, maintain, troubleshoot, and update the Eastern Region Data Centers.  • Configure, maintain, and troubleshoot Hyper-V hosts & servers. (Server 2008-2012R2)  • Provide knowledge and skill-set in the advancement of the company’s technology IT Dept.  • Research & Procure IT assets for Eastern Regional offices and act as vendor liaison.   • Manage & create users, groups, and machines OUs with Active Directory.  • Manage daily tape back-ups, as well as virtual back-ups with Veeam software.   • SCCM management & administration.   • SalesForce administration & support.  • Telecomm PBX & VOIP system administration & management. Sr. Technician Veterans Affairs (VA) December 2011 to August 2014 • Provide Desktop support/End User support and troubleshooting for VA PCs, Peripheral devices, software, and hardware.  • Install various software including patches, updates, OS, and hardware, including printers, faxes, copiers and other peripherals.  • Utilize Remedy Ticketing System to complete Help Desk tickets in a timely manner.  • Develop and establish training for OI&T staff, managers, and other users.  • Generate & capture documentation of local Integrated Campus Support procedures.  • Research and acquire technical products to improve system functionality. Contractor Veterans Affairs (VA) - Washington, DC November 2009 to August 2014 IT Specialist Veterans Affairs (VA) November 2009 to December 2011 • Directed entire aspects of several network implementations including network planning, design, testing, documentation, deployment, and maintenance of Windows based system.  • Administered production desktop and laptop images for distribution to client through VA Swimmage software.  • Provided complete Help Desk/End user support and troubleshooting for PC hardware, Microsoft Office, other standard software, and Microsoft Windows operating systems.  • Conducted software and hardware research, testing, and implementation including Windows operating system, Antivirus software (McAfee), hardware upgrade, and critical updates on Microsoft products.  • Maintained accurate PC related inventory information and managed all office PC systems including hardware, software, configuration, updates, and patches.  Achievements:  • Identified as sole VBA office IT support for OVER 150 training managers for VA Challenge Training - a groundbreaking training accomplishment in how the VA prepares its staff.  • Provided IT Desktop Support for top level management, Directors, and the Secretary of the Veterans Affairs at the VA's annual National Level Exercise event.  • Received letter of commendation in conjunction with a large scale Blackberry deployment within the VBA. Contractor Veterans Affairs - Washington, DC September 2008 to November 2009 Computer Technician - Independent Network Resource Inc.  • Responsible for installation of DELL computer systems throughout Veterans Affairs locations.  • Provided time-sensitive troubleshooting and configuration of PCs and other peripherals.  • Delivered mid-level networking, along with connectivity troubleshooting and setup.  • Worked as key part of a technical team in executive settings as well as other environments.  • Rendered out-of-box equipment to specific settings, as well as applied Government based images to the machines.    Achievements:  • Advanced to Team Lead, supervising 5+ technicians on various sites, coordinating directly with executive customers and clients.  • Received several commendations and referrals for advancement. Education Information Systems American Intercontinental University Skills Cisco (3 years), Desktop Support (10+ years), Servers (5 years), System Administrator (5 years), Active Directory, System Admin, SCCM, hyper-v (5 years) Additional Information • Network -LAN Hardware/Software Administration, Design, Installation and Configuration; TCP/IP Ethernet Networking; DHCP and Static IP addressing; Wireless Networking; Network Security; Cisco Switches/Routers, Hyper-V, Veeam, HP/DELL/PALO ALTO equipment, Solar Winds Monitoring.