Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Bridge City ISD Sulphur Springs, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Bridge City ISD - Bridge City, TX October 2015 to July 2019 Provided systems administration support for Windows systems including server and workstation upgrades, user account setup and security administration.  • Create and maintain WDS server and Windows Installation Images for use with PXE boot.  • Maintain Windows systems general application updates through System Center Configuration Manager(SCCM).  • Maintain Microsoft product server product activation through KMS server.  • Overseeing project to update Windows server infrastructure for Windows 10 deployment using Windows Deployment Services and Microsoft Deployment Toolkit.  • Overseeing installation of new PCs for yearly upgrade rotation plan.  • Overseeing district work order system setting appropriate work order priority level and proper team member escalation.  • Managing summer projects such as projector and PC maintenance, reinstalling Windows on high use computers, and backup and transfer of teacher profile settings and files.  • Troubleshooting network connectivity issues of printer, PCs, and IP Phones. Computer Technician Bridge City ISD - Bridge City, TX September 2013 to September 2015 Supported teachers and campus administrative staff through use of web based work order system.  • Troubleshooting and installation of teacher instructional software and applications.  • Supporting classroom interactive whiteboards and projectors.  • Troubleshooting local and network printer issues.  • Diagnosing and replacing failed desktop computer hardware.  • Relocation of teacher and staff printers, PCs, and IP Phones. Education AAS in Computer Networking and Troubleshooting Technology Lamar Institute of Technology - Beaumont, TX 2014 Skills Active Directory, Vmware, System Admin, System Administrator Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jonathan-tingle-28366279 Additional Information Technical Skills  Windows Administration, LANs/WANs, TCP/IP, Cisco Switches, Active Directory Domain Controllers, DNS, and DHCP.