Systems Administrator III (Infrastructure) <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> III (Infrastructure) Schertz, TX Passionate and energetic IT professional with a decade of hands-on experience designing, deploying, and supporting solutions for federal, commercial and private clients.    In my spare time, I’m an amateur developer who’s passionate about all things automation, with an ever-growing skill set in popular front and back-end languages, frameworks & tools, including:    Bash & PowerShell  Python with Django & the SciPy stack  JavaScript with Node.js, jQuery, and React.js  HTML, CSS, SASS/Less with Bootstrap  Apache, Nginx & Green Unicorn web servers Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator III (Infrastructure) CACI International Inc - San Antonio, TX March 2018 to Present Tier 3 geo-diverse resource responsible for supplementing MTF units with systems administration, comprehensive training, database, and security administration services in support of the MC4 tactical systems/servers, as well as planning and performing fault management, configuration control, and performance monitoring, installation, activation, and back-up of networked resources/services. Desktop (DaaS) Implementation Engineer KSH Solutions, Inc - San Antonio, TX March 2017 to March 2018 Contractor for the Defense Health Agency’s (DHA) Advanced Applications and Concepts Engineering (AACE) team. As a member of the team, we designed, developed and supported centrally managed & maintained standardized Operating System Deployments for a multitude of End-User Devices (EUDs).    Primary Responsibilities:    - Application packaging, testing & deployment via SCCM ’07, ’12 & ’16 environments.    - Developing PowerShell/Python scripts to automate various system-wide/imaging tasks.    - Developing, managing, deploying, and troubleshooting Group Policy Objects (GPOs).    - Acting as the team's Security Subject Matter Expert (SME) for proposed implementations.    - Assisting with the development, implementation and maintenance of the standard desktop environment and lifecycle.    - Drafting documentation for procedures (such as SOPs and Configuration Manuals) and Information Assurance documentation to support accreditation requirements. Technical Engineer, IT Systems/Networks Greystone Technology - Denver, CO August 2015 to November 2016 Primary technical resource for an IT consulting team charged with managing our clients’ complete IT infrastructures under the guidance of an IT Business Consultant.    Primary Responsibilities:    - Managing all facets of client users, networks, systems and their security autonomously.    - Installing, configuring, troubleshooting, and maintaining a wide range of equipment and software, including but not limited to: Hyper-V clusters and VDI environments, SANs (FCoE, FC, iSCSI) Dell, HP, IBM and Cisco servers, SonicWall, NetGear, and Cisco ASA’s, Aruba, AeroHive, D-Link, and NetGear WAPs, MS SQL databases and proprietary ERP/CMS software, all the way to Dell, HP, Lenovo desktops/laptops and their respective ecosystem of peripherals, and much more.    - Assisting team and clientele with planning for future growth and implementing creative, innovative, and cost-effective IT solutions built to scale.    - Engaging with third-party software/hardware vendors for support contracts, warranty renewals, and SSL certificate maintenance and renewals. Field Service Technician, IT Networks/ Systems Bridgehead I.T. - San Antonio, TX May 2013 to July 2015 Worked with an IT managed services provider as a part of their field services team, supporting assigned clients’ complete infrastructure via a combination of in-person and remote issue resolution, regularly scheduled server maintenance, and after hours / project work as necessary.    Primary Responsibilities:    - Administering diverse client networks; from SOHO LANs to 500+ EUD enterprise environments.    - Installation/configuration of physical equipment (servers, switches, NAS, ASA), removal of old equipment according to company and industry best practices, and continued support of the newly implemented physical and/or virtual infrastructure.    - Participated in project 'kick-off’ meetings with our client leadership as a SME so that executives could understand the potentials (as well as limits) of various technology we implemented. Automated Data Processing Equipment (ADPE) Field Technician Vectrus (formerly ITT Exelis) - Kabul, Afghanistan November 2011 to April 2013 Contractor deployed overseas & attached to the 319th Expeditionary Signal Battalion as an Automated Data Processing Equipment (ADPE) Technician, working with the Direct Signal Support Team (DSST) in the capital of Afghanistan.    Primary Responsibilities:    - Migration of multiple classified enclaves from Windows XP to Windows 7 through SCCM package deployments and manual sysprep re-imaging.    - Troubleshooting GFE (desktops/laptops) and peripherals for users at multiple sites in theatre.  Installation, configuration, and maintenance of DOD-approved communications software on government computers and configuration of the network to allow proper user access.    - Drafting technical documentation such as Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). Enterprise IT Service Desk Technician II Information Innovators, Inc - San Antonio, TX May 2010 to November 2011 Worked for the U.S Air Force at the Enterprise IT Service Desk (ESD), supporting over 700,000 users at over 400 locations across the globe. As a more senior technician, I developed and maintained relationships with customers, answered calls and emails sent in by Air Force bases, Command Focal Points (CFP), and Network Control Centers (NCC) around the world, and documented issues thoroughly for addition into a large-scale database to improve training for users and technicians worldwide. Through extensive troubleshooting and documentation, I resolved mid-level to complex technical issues on the spot through remote connection and /or walk-through.     Primary Responsibilities:    - Acted as an escalation point for NIPRNet/SIPRNet (Unclassified/Classified) desktop issue resolution and account management via AD and DRA.    - Troubleshooting advanced desktop and basic infrastructure issues, not limited to PKI and issues arising with physical tokens, digital certificates & signatures in Outlook.     - Monitoring, working and assigning tickets to junior staff from Remedy, as well as managing authorized user/staff Remedy accounts.    - Remote walkthrough/installation and configuration of user software and peripherals via RPD and Bomgar. Technical Support Analyst Volt, Inc - San Antonio, TX September 2009 to May 2010 Technical support analyst operating in a high volume call center interfacing with customers via telephone to troubleshoot and restore DSL and dial-up services as well as IPTV, HSIA, VoIP.     Primary Responsibilities:    - Listening to customer issues with empathy, understanding possible causes, and connecting remotely to and troubleshooting customer routers and gateways and observing system functionality and logs to verify correct operation.    - Troubleshoot customers high-speed data services and equipment. To include modern hook-ups, installation/configuration of hardware and software, modems, firewalls, and wireless home networking. Education BS in Undeclared University of Texas at San Antonio - San Antonio, TX August 2008 to August 2009 High School Diploma Earl Warren High School - San Antonio, TX 2004 to 2008 Skills IT Systems/Network Support (9 years), Vmware (5 years), Working with Military Personnel (5 years), Computer Hardware & Software Repair (9 years), SCCM / SCOM (3 years), IAVA Compliance (5 years), DoD STIG (5 years), Office 365 Administration (5 years), Active Directory (8 years), Exchange Server (6 years), Python (1 year), Remedy (4 years), ConnectWise (4 years), Confluence (1 year), SCCM, Django (Less than 1 year), MAC, Apple, Powershell (3 years), Linux (3 years), System Administrator (5 years), Hyper-V (3 years) Links http://github.com/aj83854 Awards Certificate of Wartime Service - Presented by COL Raan R. Aalgaard, J6 Deputy Director, USFOR-A 2012-07 President’s Award - Presented by Harry Loper, ITT Exelis Program Director 2013-03 Coin for Excellence – Presented by the NTMA Deputy Chief of Staff, Training & Resources 2013-04 Certifications/Licenses Security+ CE February 2017 to February 2020 COMP001021079119 CompTIA Server+ July 2019 to Present COMP001021079119 Groups TX-20022 AF-JROTC August 2004 to June 2008 Top 5% cadet, Earl Warren High School JROTC.  Completed over 500 hours of community service. Additional Information Massive Open Online Course (MOOC) Certificates of Completion -     Udemy  The Modern Python 3 Bootcamp - 30 Lecture Hours - Instructor: Colt Steele  Python 3: Deep Dive (Part 1 & 2) - 80 Lecture Hours - Instructor: Fred Baptiste