Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - SPH Analytics Braselton, GA Work Experience Systems Administrator SPH Analytics - Duluth, GA August 2018 to Present Configure and manage hosts servers from various vendors such as Cisco, and Dell  ? Configure and manage various server management services including iDrac and CIMC  ? Create, configure, and manage Windows Server 2012 R2 and Windows 2016 servers  ? Create, manage, and automate PowerShell scripts to execute daily admin tasks where applicable  ? Create and deployed group policies to server, computer, and user accounts  ? Manage Hybrid Office 365 environment with On-prem AD  ? Manage SharePoint sites and site collections as SharePoint Online administrator  ? Setup, manage and monitor backups using Backup Exec 16  ? Configure, deploy, and manage UPS units including APC and Tripp Lite  ? Manage various Meeting environments including Cisco WebEx and GoToMeeting  ? Assist in managing and troubleshooting computer and phone issues in Call Center environment  ? Manage and deploy McAfee encryption software and Fortinet AV/VPN software  ? Provide Desktop support for staff and call center computer equipment  ? Use of Zendesk ticketing system to manage user requests System Administrator III OnePath LLC - Chamblee, GA December 2015 to August 2018 Manage Windows Server 2003-2012 R2 and Windows XP through 10, including software and hardware  ? Provide support for Windows on-prem Active Directory and hybrid environment  ? Provide support for Mac computers, servers, and applications  ? Provide support for virtual environments including VMware, Hyper-V, and Citrix  ? Managed Exchange 365 and 2007 - 2016 environments  ? Provide support for printers, and vendor-provided applications  ? Provide minor support for database issues including SQL Server 2008-2014  ? Daily exposure working in SolarWinds N-able portal for asset monitoring and management, including patch management  ? Use of Atlas and Cherwell ticketing system to prioritize tickets and projects  ? Assist system admin with managing Cisco infrastructure (3850 switch stack, Catalyst 2960, ASA 5515, 2900 series routers, 7942 IP phones, Cisco CUCM & Unity)  ? Configured ports for individual use i.e. assigning vlans for voice or data usage, port security, shutdown/no shutdown, etc.  ? Managing Cisco Meraki wireless infrastructure  ? Manage Backup solutions such as Symantec Backup Exec, Cloud Backups, Revive Backup using StorageCraft Shadow Protect, Windows Server Backup  ? Provide support for multi-access environments including File servers, Terminal servers  ? Perform Active Directory tasks including, creating & managing users and security/distribution groups  ? Create and managed emails accounts in the Exchange infrastructures listed above  ? Perform monthly quality checks on servers to identify any issues or recommended updates  ? Supported SonicWALL, Fortinet, and Cisco Router/firewall management Software Test Engineer - In-client Comcast Cognizant Technology Solutions - Philadelphia, PA August 2010 to December 2015 Experience creating and running automated test batches using HP QTP tool  ? Created and maintained all QA testing data used for testing code enhancement and fixes for Comcast website which greatly improved test execution efficiency  ? Worked in the Agile and Waterfall SDLCs  ? Experience creating and maintaining User Stories using Rally tool  ? Experience using Application Lifecycle Management (HP Quality Center v11) when creating and executing test cases  ? Collaborated with offshore team to coordinate execution including nightly sync up calls  ? Created and executed test scripts with the focus on validating acceptance criteria provided by the Business Information System Analyst II Central Piedmont Community College - Charlotte, NC November 2009 to August 2010 Provided technical support to over 100 users in multiple locations involving installing, programming, imaging, troubleshooting, and maintaining user's hardware and software  ? Assisted in campus-wide video broadcasting through real player and a v-brick device  ? Assisted in maintaining laboratory equipment; performing multimedia maintenance, cleaning and storage of equipment when not in use, monitoring condition, and providing necessary repairs.  ? Monitored laboratory/on-line activities; enforced rules and regulations and a safe environment  ? Oversaw and supervised part time daily operations  ? Collected, validated, and assembled part time resource timesheets monthly  ? Creation of weekly and monthly reports for management applying agent tweaks Best Buy - Charlotte, NC October 2008 to July 2010 Charlotte, NC October 2008- July 2010  Geek Squad  ? Removed viruses, Trojans, adware, spyware, and worms with a program called MRI  ? Improved PC performance up to 33% faster by deleting temporary files, unwanted startup items and trial versions, as well as, applying agent tweaks for greater performance  ? Experience with troubleshooting Mac OS X and above  ? Recommended memory, hard drive, or PC upgrades based on need  ? Ability to multi-task with more than two computers at a time while checking in new customers  ? Received a wage increase and management recognition within the first three weeks of employment Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Johnson C. Smith University - Charlotte, NC June 2010 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Dell certified, Dhcp, Vmware, Dns, Exchange, Remedy, Qtp, Jira, Rally, Symantec, Pc anywhere, Symantec pc anywhere, Deployment, Altiris, Ms office, Track-it, Windows server 2008, Windows xp, System Administrator, System Admin