Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - ClickHouse Pro Laurel, MD To secure a position at an organization that will utilize my experience and expertise towards their growth and company goals. Furthermore, to work in an environment where I can further develop my skillet and gain more experience in the industry with the ability to quickly adapt and analyze a new IT environment to help plan and improve IT processes to optimize system efficiency. Work Experience Systems Administrator ClickHouse Pro - Washington, DC January 2017 to Present • Supported requirements for managing installation, configuration and maintenance of Unix/Windows workstations and servers, including Web servers, network attached storage devices, and stored data in support of business processing requirements  • Patched Army servers to make sure all updates were up to date  • Analyzed and implemented security requirement for computer systems which included mainframes, workstations, and personal computers.  • Performed daily server health checks  • Experienced in querying MS SQL and applying it to the software development process  • Executed on-site, on the floor, technical and system administration support.  • Monitored and responded to all incoming requests, filed all emails and updated the Government database with pertinent information from the appropriate folders on the shared drive.  • Performed software installations and upgrades to Unix/Windows operating systems and layered software packages and maintains them in accordance with established policies, procedures and service level agreements; evaluation and installation of software/hardware patches and resolution of software related problems associated with products  • Created and followed procedures to maintain and manage multiple linked databases including security, data safety and integrity, disaster recovery, and bulk data import/exports.  • Worked with lead systems administrator in installing, configuring, deploying and maintaining our Hyper-V and VMWare environments and Storage Area Networks  • Provide remote administrated desktop and software support using Remote Desktop on workstations using SCCM  • Have 3 years of windows 10 troubleshooting experience as well as installation  • Have 4 years of SCCM experience and this include connecting remotely to help clients with various issues including data transfer using the User State migration tool, adding new computers or devices into the configuration management database.  • Logged, received and tracked trouble tickets for assignment to technical specialists for trouble tickets.  • Designed, developed, and implements solutions that met security requirements.  • Documented policies and procedures pertaining to Systems Administration  • Strong familiarity with Active Directory on MS Server 2003 and 2008 platforms.  • Knowledge of MS Exchange Server 2003 and 2007 and Active Directory  • Familiarity with BES and Blackberry handhelds, Symantec Endpoint Protection and Citrix.  • Strong networking skills: Ethernet, TCP/IP, Wireless, VPN, and connectivity troubleshooting.  • Provide ongoing software support and training in the use of Microsoft Office Suite, Office 365, and Go to Meeting, Skype and Multifunctional copier/printer/scanner devices.  • Configure Windows 7 and 8 pc's and laptops as necessary to connect to virtual desktops and all cloud software  • Resolved user access issues and managed user accounts and security  • Responsible for providing telephone support to end-user community on software, and network related problems.  • Highly skilled in maintaining, analyzing, troubleshooting, and repairing computers/ Laptops, hardware, software and peripherals.  • Carry out Ron-site and remote analysis, identification, and resolution of difficult support and laptop problems for end users  • Monitored and responded phone and e-mail requests for technical support  • Utilized call tracking system to update, track and close helpdesk calls.  • Updated and Maintained Hardware and Software inventory details  • Administered to Create & Terminate end users through Active Directory  • Install, configure, and maintain corporate laptops, printers, phones, and other equipment as needed.  • Troubleshoot problems with hardware, software, networking, and other related technologies. Desktop Support/ Systems Admin/Security Analyst Freddie Mac September 2012 to January 2017 Education Bachelors in Computer Systems in Computer Systems University of Cape Coast Skills Active Directory (2 years), Android (Less than 1 year), Blackberry (2 years), BMC (Less than 1 year), Deployment (Less than 1 year), DNS (Less than 1 year), Documentation (Less than 1 year), DoD (Less than 1 year), Excel (Less than 1 year), Exchange (2 years), helpdesk (Less than 1 year), Help Desk Support (Less than 1 year), imaging (Less than 1 year), networking (2 years), security (6 years), system administration (2 years), Systems Administration (2 years), technical support (2 years), VMWare (2 years), VPN (2 years), System Administrator, System Admin Certifications/Licenses Security+ June 2019 to June 2022 Comptia security +