Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator/Facilities Coordinator - Hometown Credit Union Ellendale, MN Cross-platform experience in systems administration, including analyzing, designing, installing, maintaining, and repairing hardware, software, peripherals, and networks.   Superior troubleshooting and technical support abilities with migrations, network connectivity, and security and database applications.   Develop exceptional relationships with co-workers, management and end users Work Experience Systems Administrator Hometown Credit Union - Owatonna, MN December 2015 to Present *All aspects of System Administration and IT for around 60 end users, servers, backup, SQL, SharePoint, Exchange, S.I.E.M, and all business related software.  *Answer and solve issues from end users and assist in developing new technologies as well as maintaining current network and infrastructure.  *Research and budget for new hardware along with building and programming new hardware for implementation.  *Help manage all network, security, and Information systems for entire operations of the credit union to provide a fast and safe environment for members as well as employees. Electricians Apprentice Four Seasons Electric - Owatonna, MN November 2013 to November 2015 * Run new electrical runs in new home construction learning the proper codes and specifics on wiring * Work on commercial properties to upgrade existing wiring or to upgrade to meet new codes and equipment  * Learning rural applications for electricians with farms and livestock to provide electric service to meet there needs  * Working with the owner to learn how to run the business as a partner Telecommunication's Technician Mediacom Communications Corporation - Waseca, MN May 2012 to November 2013 * Provide reliable customer service and in-home repair of telecommunications * Jones NCTI certified broadband technician  * SCTE nationally certified telecommunications installer and repair technician  * Diagnose problems and work with other technicians to solve city wide issues Correctional Officer Iowa Department of Corrections - Fort Dodge, IA April 2007 to March 2012 * Responsible for overseeing 1200 inmates or more on a daily basis.  * Monitor safety and security for both fellow employees and for the inmates themselves.  * Serve as a trainer and teach new employees how to use the computer systems and operate ICON.  * As an ICON Master, correct any errors entered into the database as needed.  * Transport prisoners and provide minor medical attention as needed inside the facility as well as on trips. Assistant Store Manager Wal-Mart - Fort Dodge, IA January 2002 to April 2007 * Served as the Store Assistant Manager for a 97 million dollar a year store.  * Provided assistance in all aspects of operations and sales and all matters of the business.  * Hired new staff and terminated old staff, and was in charge of payroll for individual areas and the other department managers.  * Managed ordering and purchasing and given a budget for price changes and "rollbacks".  * Accounted for maintaining the departments with the budgetary constraints given.  * Responsible for store operations of any kind while maintaining a profitable store for the shareholders. Multi Store Manager Payless Shoe Source - Worthington, MN January 1998 to January 2002 * Responsible for the operations of multiple Payless Shoes Source Stores.  * Operated the stores at a profitable level and made sure that the managers of the stores were able to maintain their stores and their staff and be there for them when they needed.  * Travelled from store to store, handling all issues from the day-to-day operations all the way to planning and board meetings for the stores.  * Managed purchasing and stocking of the stores and setting budgets for the stores within the district. Education computer engineering in Computer Engineering DeVry University - Fort Dodge, IA January 2004 to December 2008 Skills OPERATIONS (10+ years), SECURITY (7 years), AND SALES (5 years), SALES (5 years), SALES AND (5 years), System Administrator (5 years), System Admin (5 years), Active Directory (4 years), Vmware (4 years), Linux (5 years) Military Service Branch: Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: E-5 March 1992 to May 2004 Certifications/Licenses Alien Vault USM for Security Engineers Present Alien Vault certification of S.I.E.M training for engineers. Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ja1covbise6jg6b2 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills    Microsoft Office, Exchange, A.D., Alien vault, SQL, SharePoint, and VMware    AREAS OF EXPERTISE    * Computer Skills - Attended DeVry University for computer engineering while running a private business to build specialized home computing solutions.  * Studies included all Microsoft OS platforms, MS Office, MS Word, MS Access, MS Excel, MS Visio, MS Site Server, Internet Explorer, Outlook, Outlook Express, PowerPoint, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, Inspiration, Claris, FileMaker Pro, SQL Server, and EZ-SQL. While also working with various languages and scripts such as, C, C++, Visual Basic, Visual C++, PL/SQL, Java, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, HTTP/1, HTTP/1.1, Pop Server, TCP/IP, SQL, ODBC/JDBC, Python, and MySQL.  * Public Safety and Security - Knowledge of relevant equipment, policies, procedures, and strategies to promote effective local, state, or national security operations for the protection of people, data, property, and institutions.  * Excellent Strategist - Provide solutions that boost productivity and efficiency across the organization. Quickly identify problem areas and implement effective solutions to meet goals.  * Exceptional organizational skills - Consistently recognized by colleagues for exceptional talents in needs analysis. As well as problem resolution in fast-paced environments.  * Strong sense of responsibility - Solid professional standards; excellent record of dependability. Maintain focus on achieving results while implementing business solutions to meet a diversity of needs.  * Administration and Management - Knowledgeable of business and management principles involved in strategic planning, resource allocation, leadership technique, and coordination of people and resources  * Customer Service - Consistently demonstrate responsiveness, strong customer focus, and ability to build good customer relationships.  * Sales and Marketing - Knowledge of principles and methods for showing, promoting, and selling products or services. This includes marketing strategy and tactics, product demonstration, and sales techniques.