Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Santa Barbara, CA Work Experience Systems Administrator TBK Bank - Dallas, TX July 2014 to July 2019 • Experienced administering Windows Server 2008R2, 2012R2 and 2016.  • Exchange 2012 support, account setup and maintenance, dynamic distribution list configuration, shared mailbox creation, etc.  • Deploy and manage new servers and desktops via VMWare ESXi 6.5.  • Patch and maintain desktops via Ivanti and vSphere. Patch and maintain servers with WSUS and vSphere.  • Watchguard Firewall traffic monitoring and system management.  • Enterprise Lead for configuration and maintenance of Okta Identity Management System.  • Used Okta Identity Management for Single Sign On; account create, configure and deactivate user accounts into 3rd party cloud based applications  • Established Google Chrome hardening GPOs for enterprise.  • Manage Zero Clients via Teradici Management Console. Ensuring Profiles are up to date and pushed out to newly deployed clients, as well as firmware upgrade/downgrade where necessary.  • Managed printer deployment via GPO and AD Security groups.  • Manage DFS and NTFS file server permissions and changes.  • Responsible for finding and deploying cloud based file sharing service, Egnyte to allow disparate sites that haven't yet combined file servers, to quickly collaborate on data. Also deployed Egnyte Storage Sync appliances for data to be presented to users as Network drives, for quick access and  uploads of files.  • Partnered with Salesforce group to setup ticketing system, coordinate on workflow creation and ease of new hire and termination ticketing process.  • Trained new hires for onboarding IT process.  • Established guidelines for Desktop Support to complete new user account creation, user onboarding and training.  • Collaborated with Salesforce Team to create standardized move/add/change/delete processes.  • Collaborated with HR and Marketing to establish Active Directory Attribute standards, companywide for Dynamic Distribution List references and  3rd party systems such as Okta, Egnyte, Salesforce and otherwise.  • Fluent in Powershell  • Automated Import of Active Directory standardization Attribute changes for user base via LDIFDE.  • Automated new user creation in Active Directory for multiple acquisitions via Powershell scripting and CSVDE.  • Blackberry Work support, new user account creation and setup.  • RSA Token management and support.  • Supported Various Microsoft Office Products  • Continually learning new technologies and pursing certifications to enhance knowledge and skillsets, as well as stay updated for what may be needed  by the company in the future. Technical Support Specialist American Red Cross - Albuquerque, NM June 2013 to May 2014 • Sole IT person responsible for Headquarter office plus 5 surrounding chapter offices  • Acted as field support, desktop support, network engineering and system administration for entire region  • Reported to out of state manager remotely for Equipment, Inventory Needs, and general technical instruction Sr. Desktop Support Analyst Anheuser Busch Inbev - St. Louis, MO March 2010 to March 2013 • Managed Desktop Support Break/Fix queue(approximately 40 tickets per technician per week)  • Met required metrics for Time To Response and Time to Fix  • Reimaged, redeployed and reconfigured (approximately 10,000) desktops and laptops within environment  • Completed imaging via WDS, application deployment via SCCM  • Personally maintained DEMO LAB for testing. Integrated Data Network Technical Analyst Thomson Reuters - St. Louis, MO March 2009 to February 2010 • 3000 Xtra Core Technical Team  • Provide technical assistance for customers of Thomson Reuters '3000 Xtra' software via Help Desk Call Center.  • Full ownership of tickets, all problems I received handled full resolution. This involves active pursuit of issues at client's site until the reported problem is resolved.  • Support multiple site infrastructures for data delivery, from direct on-site circuits, to Virtual Private Network connections and web based  Citrix client connections.  • Document all calls with Siebel ticketing software.  • Troubleshooting includes network testing, firewall configurations, VPN configuration and testing, as well as generic workstation support. Universal Analyst/Remote Access Support Analyst Boeing - St. Louis, MO October 2007 to March 2009 • Provide technical assistance to all Boeing employees, contractors, partners and vendors for computer break-fix issues.  • Support over 320,000 employees in the Boeing network with IT support.  • Receive 30 to 40 calls a day that range in a variety of IT support issues.  • Troubleshoot Windows 98/2000/NT/XP, Microsoft Office Suite applications, Unix/Linux, Network Issues as well as Remote Access.  • Document all calls with Remedy ticketing software.  • Member of the Tier 2 Remote Access Support group, this involves in depth assistance with Virtual Private Networking client configuration  and troubleshooting, as well as firewall and access issues for external employees. Student Technician University of Missouri - St. Louis, MO October 2003 to May 2005 • Configured and installed new and refurbished desktop workstations in a windows XP/2000 environment for faculty and staff.  • Independently sought out solutions to tech problems encountered while building refurbished systems and providing documentation for resolution of said problems for techs who may encounter it later.  • Ghosted images to replacement workstations.  • Transferred user data from old workstations to new. Student Assistant Forest Park Community College Computer Lab - St. Louis, MO October 1999 to May 2001 • Assisted students, faculty and staff with any computer questions or issues they may have while using the lab.  • Assistance ranged from very basic users who need help with basic tasks to issues with formatting and data recovery. Education BS in Information Technology Transfer Coursework University of Missouri - St. Louis, MO Forest Park Community College - St. Louis, MO Skills Firewall, Identity management, Rsa, Saml, Single sign on, Application deployment, Deployment, Active directory, Vmware, Exchange, Scripting, Blackberry, Technical support, Microsoft office, Windows 7, Training, Workflow, Documentation Additional Information HIGHLIGHTS OF IT SKILLS  • VMware ESXi DCV • Windows Server 2008R2/2012R2/2016 • Windows 7/10  • Exchange 2012 • Active Directory Administration • Firewall Administration  • Application Deployment • Group Policy • Okta Identity Management  • Single Sign On/SAML • Salesforce Administration • Egnyte Administration  • Ivanti Patching • WSUS • Fileserver Administration  • Desktop Support • Blackberry Work • RSA  • Microsoft Office • Technical Training • Documentation  • Powershell Scripting • Workflow • Technical Support