Systems Administrator II <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Systems Administrator / Sr Help Desk San Diego, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator II Kapstone Technologies, Inc - San Diego, CA 2017 to 2019 San Diego, CA  Onsite, offsite and remote support and routine maintenance and upgrade of hardware and software for the United States Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) downtown San Diego offices and Detention Facilities.  Systems Administrator II (2017 to 2019)  Followed strict government guidelines for maintaining computer infrastructures with hands-on experience supporting hardware imaging, data protection, encryption, operating system upgrades, Active Directory management, network infrastructure and security.  ? Provided multifaceted support for over 500 users via onsite, offsite, phone, email, Skype Business and secure remote access. Complete and detailed ticket documentation using Service Now tracking software. Completed weekly and monthly tape data backups.  ? Managed DHS Active Directory for all San Diego ICE locations and detention facilities, including onboarding new and transitioning agents as well as removing access for retiring agents. Help Desk/Technical Support Tax Compliance, Inc - San Diego, CA 2015 to 2017 San Diego, CA.  Responsible for technical support and routine maintenance of hardware and software on multiple systems for the fully automated, personal and real property tax software system.  Help Desk/Technical Support (2015 to 2017)  Responsible for maintaining computer infrastructures with hands-on experience supporting information systems, network infrastructure and security.  ? Provided technical support for over 250 users via phone, email, messenger and WebEx desktop remote access.  ? Coordinated technical integration, alignment and development of a Knowledge Base database for employees. Email Migration and Technical Support LPL Financial - San Diego, CA 2014 to 2015 for the financial services company which is the largest independent broker-dealer in the United States with more than 14,000 financial advisors.  Migration/Technical Support (2014 to 2015)  Supported customers and clients on various issues and problems with designated product and service lines.  ? Migrated over 10,000 users from POP to Outlook Exchange email using mxtoolbox, Lync messaging system.  ? Proficient deployment of critical systems and responsible for system integration techniques. Help Desk Technician Dexcom Inc - San Diego, CA 2013 to 2014 for the company that develops, manufactures and distributes continuous glucose monitoring systems for diabetes management.  Help Desk/Technical Support (2013 to 2014)  Assisted with various support needs and customer issues involving proprietary diabetic medical equipment.  ? Resolved customers hardware issues and sought to determine exact causes of incorrect meter glucose readings as well as the sensor failures in some equipment.  ? Successfully resolved over # customer issues. Help Desk Engineer Solar Turbines - San Diego, CA 2011 to 2013 San Diego, CA.  Served as the help desk engineer providing technical support and solutions for the electricity generation company.  Help Desk Engineer (2011 to 2013)  Served as the subject matter expert on resolutions for customer problems providing 24/7 support for all employees working on-call remotely.  ? Provided training for all new hire on all core applications.  ? Responsible for internal and external support providing oversight on software and hardware issues. Technical Support Representative Mitchell International - San Diego, CA 2006 to 2011 for the software company empowering clients with technology, connectivity and information solutions.  Technical Support Engineer (2006 to 2011)  Subject matter expert for client issues, technical solutions and applications.  ? Performed and assisted with stretch roles for field and corporate projects as assigned by management.  ? Logged in and tracked # tickets in remedy and salesforce tracking software platforms. Education Associate Degree in Biological Sciences & Liberal Arts in Biological Sciences & Liberal Arts San Diego Mesa Community College - San Diego, CA Skills Active directory (2 years), Customer service (10+ years), data protection (2 years), Help desk (5 years), maintenance (4 years), Managerial (Less than 1 year), Project leadership (Less than 1 year), Risk assessment (Less than 1 year), Security (4 years) Military Service Branch: US Army Service Country: United States Rank: E4 September 1989 to September 1993 Additional Information Highlights of Expertise  • Managerial & Technical Leadership  • Help Desk level II Support  • Hardware, Software Application Maintenance  • Technology Ecosystem  • Storage Infrastructure  • Customer Service  • Active Directory Management  • Ticket Tracking Software Versed    • Team & Project Leadership  • Network Solutions  • Data Protection  • Support Calls  • Solution Engineering  • Troubleshooting & Risk Assessment  • Network Infrastructure & Security  • Remote Desktop Solution Support