Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Mesa, AZ To obtain a challenging and rewarding job in IT Management where I can become  an invaluable asset to my employers and where my current skillset can best be  utilized, honed, and improved. Work Experience Systems Administrator TransPerfect - Tempe, AZ 2018 to 2019 Responsible for the maintenance and operation of 200+ Servers, 500+ Desktops, and 500+  Remote Desktops for 24x7 Call Center Operation. MS Hyper-V in 2012 R2 Datacenter Edition.  Hardware Dell Rack Mount servers and Cisco UCS, Compellent and Nimble SANs for storage.  Palo Alto firewalls, Cisco & Juniper switches, and Ubiquiti WAPs.  • Deployed McAfee Enterprise Security solution to all end points, replacing Palo Alto TRAPS  • Participated in a Data Center relocation, from on prem to Iron Mountain AZP-1 Data Center  • Coordinated with Dev team for upgrades and deploying new systems for test/dev environment  • Provided training and support for Help Desk and System Technicians and handled level 3  escalation of Help Desk tickets Manager, Desktop Support Health Current - Phoenix, AZ 2016 to 2018 • Coordinate and Manage Vendors and Team Members Throughout the Life Cycle of Projects.  • Drafted and Implemented Policies and Procedures Relating to IT issues.  • Oversaw Migration from MSP Hosted Services to Cloud Based Solutions.  • Implemented Azure Active Directory and Ensured HIPAA Compliance of All IT Systems.  • Upgraded Network Infrastructure Including Router, Switches, and Wireless Access Points.  Oversaw Replacement of Existing Phone System and Technical Aspects of Office Expansion.  1844 West Obispo Avenue, Mesa, Arizona 85202 Desktop Support Specialist The Frank Lloyd Wright Foundation - Scottsdale, AZ 2015 to 2016 • End User Support Provided for Multiple Platforms; Windows XP - 10, Mac OSX, and iOS and Android BYOD Mobile Devices.  • User Account Creation and Maintenance in Windows Server 2012 R2 Active Directory  Environment Synced to Office 365 Using Powershell Scripts and GUI.  • Troubleshoot and Maintain LAN and WiFi Networks Using Cisco, HP, Xirrus and Ubiquiti Products.  • VOIP Systems Admin, Received Training at Mitel Training Facilities for Mitel 5000  Communications Platform System Administration. IT Specialist Children's Learning Adventure - Phoenix, AZ 2013 to 2015 • End User Support Provided for Multiple Platforms, Windows Vista - 8.1, Mac OSX, and iOS and Android BYOD Mobile Devices to locations in 5 states.  • Maintain User Email Accounts.  • Coordinate with In-House Construction Managers and Various Vendors on New  Construction Projects and Remodels of Existing Locations. Network Engineer Level One Communications - Phoenix, AZ 2013 to 2014 Installed Meshed WiFi Networks in Apartment Complexes using Open-Mesh/  CloudTrax Products.  • Installed Fortinet's FortiVoice VOIP Phone Solutions in Leasing Offices.  • Installed All Related Network Hardware Using Cisco and FortiGate Routers and SynAccess IP Based Remote Power Management Switches. Sr. Network & Systems Administrator Roofing Wholesale Company - Phoenix, AZ 1998 to 2005 • Supported End Users on Windows Clients and Dumb Terminal POS Systems.  • Maintained Windows NT Servers, Red Hat Linux, and SCO OpenServer. IT Technician Arizona Public Service Company - Phoenix, AZ 1997 to 1998 Member of Windows NT 4.0 Rollout Team. Upgraded and/or Replaced Desktop  Clients Throughout the State. Project was Featured on the Cover of Windows NT  Magazine. Education High school or equivalent Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, DNS, EXCHANGE, ITIL, System Administrator, Vmware, AWS, SCCM Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/6rl70bitqw7lsybz Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills • Project Management: Determine the Nature and Scope of IT Related Projects. Establish  Budgets, Timelines, and Milestones. Manage Vendors and Team Members.  • Vendor Relations: Select and Manage Vendors for IT Related Issues.  • Policies and Procedures: Draft, Review, Revise, Implement and Enforce IT Related Policies  and Procedures and adhere to ITIL framework.  • End User Support: Windows and Mac OSX Desktops, Android and iOS Mobile Devices. In  Person, Telephone and Remote Desktop Support. Creation of Knowledge Base Articles and  Step by Step "How-To" Instructions for Common Issues.  • Server Administration: Windows 2008 R2 and 2012 R2, Active Directory, Exchange,  Hosted Exchange, DirSync, PowerShell, GPO, WSUS, File and Print Share, DNS.  • Office 365 and Azure Administration: Administration of Office 365 Enterprise Accounts  and DirSync with On-Premises Active Directory Service. Azure AD. Exchange Online,  SharePoint Online, Microsoft Teams.  • VOIP & PBX Administration: Received Training from Mitel for 5000 Series  Communications Platform Systems Administration. Certified Fujitsu Focus 9600 PBX  Administrator. Also proficient with Fortinet's FortiVoice VOIP Solution.  • Network Administration: Design, Troubleshoot, and Maintain Local And Wide Area  Networks. Cisco, HP, Fortinet, Xirrus, Ubiquiti, Open Mesh.  • Cabling & Infrastructure: Cable Runs and Terminations. Design, Test, Troubleshoot, and  Repair. Network Closet Dress Out. Clean-Up of Existing Closets.  • AV Technician: Extensive Knowledge of Pro Audio Equipment. Public Address Systems.  CCTV & IP Based Surveillance Systems. Video Teleconferencing Systems. Crestron and Polycom  Equipment.