Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Pioneer Natural Resources Beeville, TX Work Experience Systems Administrator Pioneer Natural Resources - Pawnee, TX January 2018 to Present • Weekly On-call rotation once a quarter to handle any technology related issues  • Monitor queue in ServiceNow and work on any tickets assigned to my team  • Build or collaborate on knowledge base content to document processes or provide troubleshooting assistance on various technology topics  • Manage Active Directory users and groups. Responsible for creating user accounts (e.g. general user, service, test, contact), deleting user accounts and moving them to the appropriate OU, and assigning users to specific AD groups  • Responsible for creating network shares and assigning specific AD groups to those shares with specific permissions  • Azure Admin responsible for managing Active Directory and VM's. Recently configured SSPR for our company.  • Nutanix Admin responsible for maintaining the system, upgrading components, and troubleshooting VM issues.  • MobileIron Admin responsible for maintaining the system, upgrading the servers, building new environments for specific configurations, troubleshooting device activation, pushing applications to devices  • SolarWinds Admin responsible for modifying configuration of existing nodes or creating alerts for new nodes  • Teams Admin responsible for creating or deleting Teams, restoring deleted channels. I also assist with creating forms which collect data into a spreadsheet.  • Citrix Admin responsible for adding new users to the environment, assigning applications to users, troubleshooting VM issues  • MFA Admin responsible for troubleshooting user account issues (e.g. verifying record exists and is enabled, ensuring device is included, set authentication mode)  • Server Patching responsible for ensuring the successful completion of server updates for targeted servers. Excluded servers from update rotation upon request. IT Support Pioneer Natural Resources - Pawnee, TX June 2014 to January 2018 • Responsible for the day-to-day computing operations of local and remote locations including Windows environments, backups and restores of those systems as well as the LAN.  • With the use of ServiceNow I was responsible for client issue resolution, system monitoring and tuning, uptime management, virus scanning, and system failures.  • Provide support for Exchange, Outlook, Internet Explorer, MS Office and various other office applications.  • Responsible for activation and support of mobile devices (phones and tablets) and MiFi devices.  • Worked closely with other IT groups to troubleshoot issues, and assist with projects. IT Support Bee County - Beeville, TX October 2013 to May 2014 • Maintain county website.  • Provide hardware/software support, consisting of various PC's running Windows XP, Windows Vista, Windows 7 and 8, printers/scanners, VoIP phones, iPads and iPhones for 19 departments at Bee County.  • Transitioned everyone from P2P to an Active Directory domain hosted on a Win 2012 server.  • Replaced existing PC's running Win XP and Vista with new HP computers running Win 7 Pro. IT Support Marathon Oil - Kenedy, TX July 2013 to September 2013 • Developed business application which collected data from field supervisors, working alongside contractors, tracking various aspects of drilling, production and completion for Marathon Oil.  • The application was built using php, mysql, javascript and was hosted on a cloud server.  • I helped Marathon Oil migrate their data from an Excel spreadsheet. By doing this they were able to view and query historical data, and display graphs depicting the cost savings of the hundreds of wells they were tracking. Enterprise Customer Response Engineer Apple - Austin, TX March 2000 to July 2013 • Supported customers who purchased one of our yearly contracts: Mac OS X Server Select, Preferred and Alliance.  • Provided onsite customer support as needed. Worked on-call pager duty rotation.  • Supported iOS specific issues on iPad and iPhone devices which included MS Exchange integration, Mobile Device Management, profiling, security and wireless issues.  • Assisted customers in troubleshooting network and internet connectivity issues.  • Aided customers in the basic installation of peripherals and applications.  • Supported Mac OS X integration with Active Directory, and various services to include but not limited to: Profile Manager, Podcast Producer, Apple Remote Desktop, Managed Client OS X, LDAP, AFP, FTP, SAMBA, Print, Wiki, Web, and scripting.  • Scripting support included analyzing customer scripts and creating scripts to help collect necessary data from our customers.  • Handled a majority of the Podcast Producer, Apple Remote Desktop, Managed Client OS X, and OS integration escalations  • Assisted with consultations from Customer Relations and Corporate Executive Relations.  • Worked with product engineering to resolve customer issues or escalate feature/enhancement requests.  • Available to my peers for consultation or offloading some of their work. IT Assistant Magic Pictures Company - Corpus Christi, TX September 1999 to February 2000 • Supported PowerMacs, iMacs, and various other PCs running either Mac OS 7-8.5, or Win 95-98.  • Setup workstations on LAN configured with AppleShare 6.0, and connected patch cords to the appropriate patch panel for the networked workstation.  • Created program using RealBasic 2 that reported applications loaded on workstations so that we could maintain a record of applications installed on each individual system. Office Assistant Coastal Bend College - Beeville, TX September 1998 to August 1999 • Maintained database of over 700 students using 3rd party software written with FoxPro.  • Created customized reports and assisted in the management of software currently utilized by TRIO (Win 95-98, Internet Explorer 4.0, MS Office 97). Engineering Assistant, Fairchile A.F.B., Wa US Air Force February 1993 to February 1997 • Provided working drawings of new, renovated, or to be demolished projects using AutoCAD.  • Used Total Station with data collector for surveying.  • Designed 3-dimensional layout of the base. Assist in installing and configuring software on our workstations and ensure proper network connectivity.  • Managed office while superiors were away. Education Associate Degree in Drafting and Design in Drafting and Design Coastal Bend College - Beeville, TX June 1992 Skills Active directory, Exchange, Solarwinds, Citrix, Ldap, C/c++, C++, Javascript, Perl, Php, Scripting, Ms office, Ios, Mfa, Mysql, Sqlite, Ajax, Css, Linux, Unix, System Administrator, SCCM, System Admin Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/s4bl970rlww6tmqz Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS  Admin for Azure, SolarWinds, MobileIron, Nutanix, Citrix, MS Teams, & MFA; Mac OS X 10-10.14 (Server and Client), iOS (all versions), Win XP, Win 7, Win 10, Win Server: 2003, 2008, 2010, 2012, 2016;  MS Exchange 2007, 2010, 2012; MS Office 2010-15 and 365; UNIX, Linux, Bash scripting, Perl scripting, PowerShell, MySQL, MongoDB, SQLite, PHP, C/C++, Java, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, CSS, LDAP, Active Directory