Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - CIIS Taylors, SC To establish a career in a growing company, while adding to and using my current skill-set. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator CIIS - Greenville, SC October 2017 to Present • CIIS Division is responsible for all eRAD hosted customer virtual machines, eRAD infrastructure, Security, and all other internal IT Duties.  • Utilized VMWare exclusively with a fibre backed storage network.  • Maintained templated versions of eRAD software for deployment.  • Worked with customer's directly to establish secure VPN connections back to our datacenter for remote use of hosted virtual machines. All tunnels were site to site IPSEC based, utilizing juniper hardware. Customer Solutions Manager CIIS - Greenville, SC October 2014 to February 2017 • Managed a team of up to eight (8) personnel, whom were responsible for providing technical support.  • Worked one on one with customers to de-escalate, and resolve specific issues that were escalated beyond the solutions team.  • eRAD experienced exponential growth from 2015-2017, to accommodate a more efficient workflow was required in order to maintain response times and have little perceived impact to our customers. I was able to automate trouble ticket creation in our existing system for the majority of contact points from our customers and streamline the ticket process using existing solutions.  • After moving to this position I remained the subject matter expert for our radiology report templating process, as such I mentored and instructed my team and several other key members of other departments on the process of creating and maintaining our Radiology reports.  • Subject matter expert for a faxing service offered by eRad. I created and maintained documentation for this service as well as one on one training. After training other individuals I was able to standardize and document this service to the point where a specific subject matter expert was no longer needed.  • Validated, configured, and implemented remote connectivity software (RDM) as a preliminary beta test. Eventually rolled out to the rest of eRad.  • Validated, and implemented new 3rd party Dicom Gateway software for distribution to eRAD's customers and replacement of existing Dicom Gateway.  • Created and implemented modular training program for newly added team-members that encompassed all of our products, historically the training available was limited and not standardized; this resulted in knowledge levels that varied greatly, my goal was to standardize all new team members so the group could grow as a whole, the results were great and eRAD continues to use the training system today. IS Systems Analyst CIIS - Greenville, SC 2013 to 2014 • Provided technical support to end users for a wide variety of products offered by eRad including: eRad PACS, eRad RIS, eRad Viewer, Dragon Naturally Speaking, and Mmodal Fluency Direct.  • Worked directly with internal software development team and engineering team to troubleshoot, maintain, and improve Linux (Red Hat) based PACS systems and Windows (Server 2008+) based RIS systems in both physical and virtual environments.  • Responsible for maintaining and diagnosing network systems relating to PACS and RIS including the end user devices. Senior Broadband Technician Charter Communications - Greenville, SC 2008 to 2013 • Responsible specifically for calls that require troubleshooting at a residence or business.  • Contact point for my team if an issue beyond their knowledge came up.  • Certified through Charter to troubleshoot and repair all business class and residential equipment within Charter Communications networks. Education Associates in Computer Technology Greenville Technical College - Greenville, SC 2008 to 2014 General Studies Riverside High School - Greenville, SC 1999 to 2003 Web Design via Greenville Technical College Skills LINUX (5 years), NETWORKING (4 years), RED HAT (5 years), VMWARE (2 years), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (Less than 1 year), System Administrator, System Admin, Linux Administrator, Redhat, SCCM Additional Information Technical Skills  • Advanced residential networking configuration including routers, switches, network attached storage, and dynamic DNS services.  • VMware environment, including implementing templates, migration, and console control of virtual machines.  • Linux (Red Hat/Centos/Ubuntu); GUI and CLI  • Microsoft OS: Windows XP and up, Including Server 2003-2012  • Basic understanding of GPO's and Active Directory  • Understanding of domain naming system, including registering and maintaining an active domain as well as corresponding SSL certificates.  • Repair of Fiber-optic, coaxial and copper network components  Personal Projects  • Setup and maintenance of multiple virtual machines including an apache web server and personal SFTP server in a VMware environment.  • Custom built home NAS running on FreeBSD (FreeNAS) provides storage over fibre channel to the virtual machine host.