Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Cleveland Clinic Foundation Berea, OH To contribute strong technical skills, problem solving abilities and exemplary customer service and leadership skills to an organization that can utilize an energetic, flexible IT professional who is continuing to increase and improve his skill set and who possesses a mature, solid work ethic Work Experience Systems Administrator Cleveland Clinic Foundation - Cleveland, OH 2013 to Present Responsible for the daily I.T. support of the Cleveland Clinics Lorain Family Health Center.  Including software installation and upgrades, new equipment purchasing, imaging of new PCs and installation of PCs and related peripherals such but not limited to scanners, credit card readers and fingerprint readers.    Active Directory administration, creating new user accounts, user groups, new email accounts.    Liaison with Lake Business Products who are the supplier of multifunction printer solutions.    Responds to trouble tickets, email requests and special projects as assigned.    System Administrator for the installation and configuration of the Virtual Physical Therapy pilot project.    Systems Administrator for the work at home laptop project.    Completed the windows 7 conversion from windows XP for 400 plus computers at the Lorain Family Health Center.    Assisted with the I.T. re-equip of Superior Medical upon the Clinics takeover of operations including imaging and installing new computers, tablets and printer configuration as well as network switch over (activating and patching of new network ports) Systems Analyst II Cleveland Clinic Foundation - Cleveland, OH 2008 to 2013 Radiology Informatics  Responsible for the daily support of the radiology informatics servers.    End user support of informatics software.    Creation and maintenance of active directory and email accounts for radiology personnel.    Building of new servers for Rad informatics applications.    Administration of the virtual server environment using VMware products such as VSphere and ESX.    Daily inspection of the radiology informatics data centers throughout the main campus.    Data cabling for new server equipment as well as vendor equipment and equipment moves.    Onsite vendor support    PC imaging using Ghost software suite.    Encryption of all computer equipment where PHI is to be accessed and stored.    Assist in developing disaster recovery protocols as well as the password security initiative.    Provided support for regional radiology personnel.    Development and maintenance of inventory control procedures.    Implementation of the battery backup maintenance as well as the development of maintenance  procedures of Radiology owned rack mount UPS systems.    Packaging of software for pushes and inventory control using Dell Kbox system management appliance. Systems Operations engineer Metro Health Medical Systems - Cleveland, OH 2003 to 2008 Enterprise wide field support for PCs and peripherals including thin clients for all locations both main campus and off site.  Installation and configuration of various software applications such as Dragon naturally speaking dictation software, Adobe products, Microsoft applications as well as specialized departmental applications for the health care industry.  End user support for Cisco VPN applications.  Installation and end user support for various models of PDAs operating both the Palm OS and software suite and Microsoft CE and active Sync.  Skilled in web jet admin for troubleshooting and configuration of network printers.  Strong understanding of network printing and Epic EMR printing.  Have performed computer builds using SMS server images, Ghost and standalone custom builds. Responsible for the coordinating of tech refresh roll outs of flat panel monitors and computers throughout the Metro Health main campus and satellites.  Lead engineer for the Multi-Functional Device deployment throughout Metro Health main campus as well as all satellite locations, creating and managing print queues and assigning I.P. addresses for the MFDs as well as other networked enterprise devices.  Liaison to Lake Business Products regarding the enterprise wide deployment of the vendors equipment as well as service, support and training of end users on this equipment. Technical Support Supervisor Kroy LLC - Cleveland, OH 1999 to 2003 Supervision of help desk operations.  Trained and counseled peers in the operation and repair of proprietary printing hardware and software as well as third party vendor products.  Implementation and updating of the FAQ page for Kroy's website encompassing a variety of printing products.  Involved in the planning and implementation of inspection and quality control policies for incoming printing equipment prior to distribution.  Active participant in meetings regarding the new product lines implementing testing training and support procedures.  Responsible for the generation and distribution of daily financial reports from the IBM A/S 400 Mainframe. Education None in Cisco Computer networking Lorain County Joint Vocational School District - Oberlin, OH January 2000 to September 2000 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY (10+ years), PCS (10+ years), PRINTING (10+ years), WINDOWS 7 (10+ years), WINDOWS XP (10+ years), System Administrator (10+ years), System Admin (10+ years), Vmware (1 year) Certifications/Licenses Cisco CCNA. CompTIA A+ , CompTIA Network+ Present certified in computer networking and PC and peripheral hardware repair and maintenance Additional Information Experienced in the following areas:  Customer and vendor support.  Software and hardware installation and documentation.  Software and hardware troubleshooting via telephone, email, remote desktop, remote assistance and personal contact.  Physical repair of computers and peripherals  Multi-application server administration as well as virtual server administration.  Computer network installation and trouble shooting.  Multi-functional printing equipment installation, operation and configuration.  Print queue creation and print server management.  Heat and ITSM call tracking software.  Active directory and Exchange user account and email account administration.  VMware virtual Server and virtual PC administration.  Microsoft Windows desktop operating systems including but not limited to  Windows XP and Windows 7  Microsoft Windows Server operating systems 2003 and 2008,  Symantec Endpoint Protection antivirus application administration.  HP Certified for repair of desktops, workstations and notebook PCs.