Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Havre de Grace, MD Work Experience Systems Administrator A3 SOLUTIONS INC - Wilmington, DE 2019 to Present SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATION, AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES  Onsite support for 1100+ users at Agilent Technologies, Little Falls location  • Build and configuration of standard and non-standard laptops and workstations.  • Desk side support for hardware, software and mobile devices  • Email and Data migrations OPERATIONS MANAGER, INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY BRANDYWINE TECHNOLOGY - Wilmington, DE 2018 to 2019 Led IT Operations for the city of Wilmington, DE, including Networking, App support, Helpdesk, and Desk-side support.  • Created project SOPs and documentation for new and existing IT projects for The monthly CAB meetings.  • Oversaw all IT projects and setup bi-weekly status reports.  • Created shared project workspace using ZoHo and MS Teams, allowing realtime monitoring of project tasks and resources.  • Provided level 2 and 3 executive support for Office 365 migratIons, surface laptops and conferencing hubs, email and file restoration.  • Day-to-day focus on overseeing the help-desk and any escalated issues. DIRECTOR, USER SERVICES ELLUCIAN - Glenside, PA 2017 to 2018 Led IT User Services across Arcadia's PA and DE locations. Responsible for escalated issues from Faculty and Staff.  • Handled IT discovery and communication plan to inform the University of the new changes from the in-house help desk to the new Ellucian CHD help desk.  • Worked with vendors, i.e., Dell and Apple, to review the purchase and lease programs to ensure they are in line with Arcadia's current needs.  • Advised on ITIL best practices, customer services and managing workflow within Service Now.  • Collected and updated Arcadia documentation in Confluence for process improvement and change control.  • Assisted in the day-to-day operations of the help desk, including hardware and software support.  • On-Site support during the End-of-Rotation medical testing for PA and Christiana locations.  • Provided training on Service Now to IT staff in addition to Ellucian provided remote training. Liaison to the Ellucian Combined Help Desk. TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT CENTER MANAGER CONDÉ NAST - Wilmington, DE 2015 to 2017 Successfully managed two separate ITIL help desks, with a total of 18 people reporting directly to me. Each group had separate metrics and KPI's. Responsible for hiring, training, coaching, performance monitoring and scheduling of all agents.  • Ran daily meetings with key Technology stakeholders across the business to ensure the needs of the business were being met.  • Maintained over 80% First Contact Resolution for any client contact across the enterprise.  • Reduced average support call time by implementing a project to have CRM information appear on agents screen based on caller information from Cisco.  • Automated the on-boarding process with the PeopleSoft and Networking teams to reduce agent workload and improve turnaround time. We were able to perform the same work with a 25% reduction in staffing.  • Managed on-boarding projects when new businesses would be acquired to ensure clients experienced as little downtime as possible.  • Migrated department scheduling over to Humanity scheduling online to allow for simpler and more accurate accounting of employee time.  • On-site support for the 1 World Trade Center move - ensuring that all internal customers (desktops, laptops, smartphones, tablets, IP telephony and printers) were fully operational during the corporate relocation into 1 World Trade Center. This project enabled internal customer productivity throughout the lengthy relocation process with no business interruption effect during the move.  • Achieved 95% positive client satisfaction survey responses.  • Maintaining, updating and testing our internal SOPs, including merging documentation from two help desks onto a single Sharepoint site that could be accessed from anywhere. TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT CENTER TEAM LEAD CONDÉ NAST - Wilmington, DE 2013 to 2015 Saved the company $1 million annually creating a manual new hire process reduced turn around time from 5 days to 48 hours, and no longer required an expensive Identity Management system. This led to promotion.  • Consolidated and automated morning CRM reporting to fit the needs of the key stakeholders.  • Increased First Contact Resolution by 300% via coaching, documentation and improved processes.  • Began daily anti-virus/spyware reporting of all machines on the network using Symantec Endpoint protection for reporting and remediation.  • Managed a team of 5 agents for Advanced Central Services that was independent of Conde Nast. Weekly support meetings with markets in DE, Michigan and PA. Converted paper SOPs to Sharepoint Online. Responsible for scheduling, training, and coaching of ACS agents. All level of remote support for ACS. Split approximately 90% pc, 10% mac. CLIENT SERVICES TECHNICIAN CONDÉ NAST - Wilmington, DE 2007 to 2013 Spearheaded a proposal to improve our knowledge base and the procedures behind it to ensure the information is easily available and accurate for Technology Groups across our enterprise using Sharepoint online. This led to promotion.  • Deployment and reporting of software package installation during our MS Exchange migration for 3500+ clients using Absolute Manager Admin and Microsoft SCCM. Tested software (Mac, PC and Applications) builds before they were deployed to client machines. The feedback has improved processes, documentation and deployment.  • Created the process for the morning Anti-Virus reporting across the enterprise. Any detected threats were removed manually and with removal tools and documented in our case management system.  • Provided all levels of remote support for 3500+ clients in NY, CA, DE, London, Paris, Milan and other international locations. Split approximately 75% mac, 25% pc. Processed all personnel changes, i.e., new hires, separation, and department moves for the company. Android and iOS tablets and mobile devices. Exchange, Sharepoint and Office 365 online  • support. Microsoft SCCM for troubleshooting, remote connectivity and software installations. Virus/Spyware remediation and system performance troubleshooting. APPLECARE TECHNICIAN LEVEL 2 MAC GENIUS - King of Prussia, PA 2006 to 2007 My team and I improved the efficiency of our department from the bottom 20% to the top 5% fastest and most profitable service centers in Apple retail.  • Provided customer support, including hardware and software troubleshooting and product training.  • All levels of repair for Apple hardware and software products. Provided technical support for in-house staffing and systems. Authorizing warranty claims.  • Responsible for all aspects of repair workflow, including repair prioritization and case management. SERVICE MANAGER H2 COMPUTERS INC - Doylestown, PA 2005 to 2006 I increased the profitability of our service department by 65%, by having all repairs performed in-house.  I installed and maintained a 45 client Macintosh OS Server based network into a new salon, running on a PowerMac G5 quad-processor machine. The setup included a separate, independent guest network    Responsible for daily operations of all aspects of the service department, specifically ensuring proper compensation, workflow, and warranty requirements of Apple. Onsite client training and network/computer installations. Taught various entry-level computer classes as well as private in-home instruction. Education CERTIFIED SERVICE TECHNICIAN DELAWARE COUNTY COMMUNITY COLLEGE Skills System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin, Active Directory Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/danieldortenzio http://experience.in