Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Lifetouch/Shutterfly, Inc. New Washington, OH Administrative level IT Professional with a cumulative 15 years of experience working on various levels within a K-12 and private manufacturing IT infrastructure with a strong ability to communicate both verbally and in written form. I am looking to target cloud and/or hybrid engineering positions that allow for continued growth with a company with a goal to be sustainable through the continued growth of cloud infrastructure and administration. I believe my physical infrastructure experience will serve as a strong foundation toward the cloud infrastructure. I am also completely comfortable in customer-facing interactions and projects. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Lifetouch, Inc. - Galion, OH October 2014 to Present Selected Contributions:  ? Active Directory migration site contact. Working closely with corporate IT teams to plan, test, and implement migration of users, desktops, and servers to another domain as a part of a larger integration project after company acquisition. Work with a local group of beta test users to call out any obstacles that we may face during a full migration. Distribute documentation, expectations, and plan out testing procedures to perform to gain as much insight into how a full migration would turn out.   ? Office 365 ProPlus suite deployment. Work with corporate IT to schedule and communicate to users the push of O365 ProPlus via SCCM. This included the removal of Office 2007/2010 suites and install of updated Office suite. If corporate push failed, I developed a local automation to remove older versions of Office and install the newer suite via BatchPatch and configuring .xml file for setup configuration and deployment.   ? Build out an emerging Windows Server 2016/2019 Core OS environment for local developers to run applications as services in an effort to pull away from console GUI interface for local production applications. This has reduced our VM footprint in terms of lean OS structure.  ? Emerging strength for using either PowerShell scripts on schedules or PowerShell-based management tools like Batchpatch to streamline efficiency to perform scheduled maintenance on critical servers (WSUS patching) and different departmental desktop deployments (specific application cleanups).  ? Build out of Windows Server 2016 Hyper-V infrastructure to support support photographic rendering on virtual systems.  ? Work with corporate Security Operations team to migrate from enterprise-wide migration from McAfee VirusScan Enterprise for antivirus to SentinelOne (S1). Using deployment tools locally to schedule and migrate on current and legacy systems to ensure enterprise security compliance. Successfully completed in winter 2017.  ? Help manage, support and maintain a VMware vSphere 6.0 environment with over 175 virtual servers and workstations across five physical hosts.  ? Delegated management Active Directory environment with 350 PCs as well as 400 users. This includes managing DFS infrastructure, group policies and preferences, Microsoft SCCM (patching) and WDS  imaging/deployments, and a very complex environment of network shares to allow data to flow easily for supporting production.  ? Plan and coordinate a data center UPS system upgrade. This includes working with various vendors on requirements, quotes, and implementation. ? Work with local plant resources to schedule, plan, and successfully replace legacy UPS array with a single 40KVa Liebert unit to provide data center with redundant power.  ? Organized the migration of users from Outlook 2007 to either Office 365 ProPlus or Outlook 2010 for accessing Office 365 environment. This includes planning with department managers, communicating timelines, scheduling and leading trainings to prepare for migration and deployment.  ? Work with department managers to develop efficient plans and objectives for inter-departmental structural changes in terms of workstations shifting around. Coordinating layered schedules to effectively move users around to meet the needs of the department while allowing users to continue to be productive.  ? Management of Cisco network infrastructure by managing VLANs and ports for systems depending on their job function or security clearance.  ? Communicate daily with corporate infrastructure managers in remote locations on daily health of technology initiatives as well as continuing to support and plan larger infrastructure projects taking place in the future.  ? Support the management of a McAfee ePolicy environment for optimal security and compliance with company data protection policies. This includes AppLocker for legacy system hardening.  ? Help support corporate backup infrastructure using Quantum Scalar i500 digital tape library. Maintain media server attached and managed using Symantec NetBackup for backups.  ? Work closely with local software developers and desktop support staff to maintain the proper level of support for the facility to allow for maximum production. Systems Administrator Mid-East Career and Technology Centers - Zanesville, OH July 2014 to September 2014 Selected Contributions:  ? Successfully upgraded Windows domain functionality from 2008 to 2012 R2 using VMware templates.  ? Successful deployment of 125 Chromebook fleet during the 2013-2014 school year. Embarking on a deployment of 500 more for the fall of 2014.  ? Staff training in Google Apps for Education during staff up orientation. Focusing on the core Google Apps such as Gmail, Google Calendar, Google Drive, and Google+.  ? Desktop imaging/deployment using Dell Kace 2000 solution which also integrates with in-house Kace 1000 for help desk functionality. Use of scripted installations and driver harvesting was integral in efficient desktop deployments.  ? Active Directory management, including Group Policy for desktop optimization and software deployment as well as Preferences for managed printer deployment.  ? Daily interaction with help desk workflow to resolve varieties of issues with PCs, servers, IP phones, printers, and.various educational software and hardware. Hardware Specialist Mid-East Career and Technology Centers - Zanesville, OH July 2013 to June 2014 Responsible for the support of technology services throughout a district of approximately 1500 students and 300 staff members. My position is unique, as I am required to support a gamma of platforms and differing hardware. The district was seeking syndrome to fill the gaps in systems administration, network administration, desktop support, and technical staff training. IT Supervisor West Muskingum Local Schools - Zanesville, OH January 2012 to June 2013 Responsible for the coordination of technology integration throughout a district of approximately 1600  students and 225 staff members. I served as the point person for technology projects and initiatives that  were designed to deliver a quality education to students and support the faculty with information and tools for delivery of content for their students.    Selected Contributions:  ? Coordinated a pilot with Google Apps for Education for use by all teachers and students by Fall 2014. This  will included planning, budgeting of resources, professional development for teachers, and creating a  standardized platform to work in conjunction with BYOD that will offer a seamless line of communication between staff and students.  ? Work closely with the Superintendent to provide a quality technology services department that will allow  all the other departments to function more efficiently.  ? Supervise a technology department consisting of two employees. One full-time Network Administrator and one part-time technician.  ? Successfully provide cutting edge technology solutions to students and staff given an extremely tight  budget environment. This is done through effective networking and researching the right avenues to travel when looking at open source solutions.  ? Currently supporting the transformation of the middle school's blended learning environment. This  includes purchasing of netbooks and a mobile lab cart, along with an upgrade to the managed wireless  environment with wireless access points to provide secure, robust service to devices.  ? Facilitating successful launch of a BYOD environment that will allow students and staff to bring in their  own devices for educational use. This includes the drafting of a Board policy and securing a section of the network for BYOD. This also includes a solution for students and staff to use Microsoft Web Apps for use of  various applications that may not be installed on their machine. They simply log into an internal web  source to authenticate and use Office applications.  ? Website migration between web hosts. This includes moving all of the District-level information and resources. Previous web host, Schoolwires, will be designed for a student/teacher resource such as a  Learning Management System (LMS) as new web host uses DotNetNuke which provides a smoother management and aesthetic appeal.    ? Along with the treasurer, manage all technology related services purchased by the District. This includes  all district-wide and building subscriptions to cloud-based resources such as Discovery Education,  BrainPOP, Turnitin, Gaggle.net, Learning A-Z, Compass Odyssey, i-Ready, ALEKS Math, and Microsoft Licensing.  ? Provide a student email solution through Gaggle.net. This includes professional development for staff use via work sessions, documented tutorials, and demonstrations. This powerful tool provides CIPA compliant mediums of communication between students and staff that can be logged and monitored by various staff members.  ? Utilize smart technology purchasing by building strong communication with various vendors. This includes an RFP process if purchase is substantial. (>$15K) Used RFP process to purchase netbook mobile lab for middle school.  ? Took advantage of SMART Ed Services TUP-E grant that allowed the district to exchange seven retired interactive white boards for seven new SMART Boards (SB680) at a less than 50% cost.  ? Management of District wireless phone account. This includes the oversight of 10 wireless numbers for various administration.   ? Work closely with regional ITC (Licking Area Computer Associates in Newark, OH) for various services and support of hosted services such as: Exchange, ProgressBook, DASL, and IVDL services. Network Administrator West Muskingum Local Schools - Zanesville, OH November 2009 to January 2012 I was responsible for the maintenance and upkeep of approximately 800 PCs and numerous other educational technology devices across four buildings in the district including IP and analog phones, projectors, local and networked printers, SMART Boards, and document cameras. I worked closely with the Director of Technology to direct the district into the proper use of effective technologies that will allow faculty to reach professional goals which will result in students reaching their maximum academic potential.    Selected Contributions:  ? Maintain a network infrastructure that includes a cumulative fifteen (physical and virtual) servers ranging from Windows Server 2003, Windows Server 2008, and Windows Server 2008 R2.  ? Set up and maintain a growing virtual server environment with VMware’s vSphere Hypervisor. Created servers from scratch and from converted physical machines. ESXi host was housed in an Intel Modular server system with multiple server blades and a shared SAS SAN storage pool. Currently have three servers running anything from anti-virus, print services, terminal services, and a domain controller.  ? Maintain an Active Directory domain structure with approximately 2000 accounts. Successfully researched various resources in order to develop various Visual Basic and HTA scripts that can mass create network accounts, including creating home directories with the proper sharing and security permissions, and configure specific settings within the account properties.  ? Service or delegate appropriate work orders submitted by faculty and staff through Ohio Public School Works’s web-based work request system.   ? Completed the start of FOG, an open source PC imaging solution. This allows the storage of PC images to be stored on a central server or several storage nodes to be accessed anywhere on the network via PXE boot. Successfully deployed saved system images via multicast to a group of computers, or to a single machine from a remote location using the various tools offered by FOG. This has brought significant cost savings to the district with the open source software (Linux Fedora OS).  ? Maintain the service of 3Com infrastructure network across four buildings. This includes VLAN management, VOIP maintenance, configuring and backing up system-wide settings, and repair of 3Com models SW7700, SW7750, 4400-PWR, 2426-PWR, and 2226-PWR devices.   ? Configuration of Terminal Services (Windows Server 2003)/Remotes Desktop Services (Windows Server 2008/R2) for use from classroom terminals and two separate labs. This includes using Group Policy to give each user a consistent and secure desktop environment.  ? Maintain a system-wide antivirus solution with Symantec Endpoint Protection 11. This includes grouping PCs by location, creating installation packages, keeping definitions up to date, and closely monitoring domain PC health via central management console.  ? Maintain a detailed Group Policy structure to customize the desktop environment based on group membership throughout the domain. This includes the mapping of multiple network shares, printer assignment, and application deployment.  ? Successfully deployed Microsoft Office 2010 to all domain PCs via Group Policy. Includes creating custom MSI packages using the Microsoft Office Customization Tool to fit the role of users on specific machines. Also successfully developed action plans for the small percentage of errors that arose during deployment.  ? Manage and maintain various other server roles such as DNS, DHCP, Windows Server Backup, Print Services, WINS, and FRS. Technology Consultant Mansfield Alliance Church - Mansfield, OH January 2009 to September 2009 Lead the church’s technology development and planning for an after school program that has been funded by a grant from the state of Ohio. Serve as the technology contact for software and hardware maintenance.     Selected Contributions:  ? Prepared 22 laptops for use by middle school students by preparing an image with needed software and features and replicating completed image on all machines using Acronis True Image 2009.  ? Configured wireless network in order for laptops to connect with church’s network from a neighboring building.  ? Completed the installation and configuration of a mobile SMART Board with a projector on mobile cart for presentations to be shown during workshops.  ? Configured and secured a mobile locking cabinet to house and charge laptops neatly and efficiently.  ? Served as technical contact for program’s online reading and math provider, Let’s Go Learn.  ? Organized and maintained inventory of various accessories, software, and hardware to maintain efficiency and effectiveness. Help Desk Technician JP Morgan Chase - Columbus, OH 2009 to 2009 Worked with a company called Insight, an IT solutions company, to provide tier II help desk support for the final stage of a three-part conversion of over 900 Washington Mutual banking centers to Chase banking centers. (5 week contract)    Selected Contributions:  ? Worked with Chase’s proprietary help desk ticketing system, Eagle, to provide quick and efficient support for existing Chase branches and during the conversion of Washington Mutual branches.  ? Utilized Angry IP Scanner configured by Chase to perform and support remote staging (imaging) of teller and platform workstations in branches across the United States.  ? Assigned as sole help desk contact for up to six branches during complete conversion by being available on bridge line to field any technical issues from the lead technician at each branch.  ? Responsible for helping field technicians connect new MagTek PIN Pads, Panini MICR scanners, Lexmark Multi-Function Printers, and Teller Cash Dispensers to converted workstations.  ? Dispatched variety of computer components, parts, and peripherals to sites with needed replacements.  ? Used VNC Viewer to remotely view, control, and support workstations that needed basic troubleshooting and efficiently made decisions about how to solve ticket with the least amount of cost to Chase. Elementary Teacher/Online School Coordinator Mansfield Christian School - Mansfield, OH 2005 to 2009 Collaborate with faculty and administration to provide quality education at the 5 th grade level.    Selected Contributions:  ? Worked with yearbook committee for two years, one year in leadership role to coordinate elementary  yearbook. Planned and designed book on time and within budget.  ? Became the source for technology troubleshooting throughout the year by being available and willing to help fellow faculty with problems.  ? Coordinated, marketed, and maintained our partnership with online course providers to allow families to supplement or remediate student needs for rich educational experience. Elementary Teacher/Asst. Technology Coordinator Mansfield Christian School - Mansfield, OH 2005 to 2009 Work closely with the Technology Coordinator to prepare a private K-12 school with an enrollment of 850 for the upcoming school year by deploying new machines and systems, preparing laptop carts, performing needed maintenance on machines and network, and preparing user accounts. Was called upon by the administration to provide technology support for entire faculty due to proficiency in support-based environment.    Selected Contributions:  ? Planned and implemented NComputing’s Xtenda x300 modules to use only seven machines to provide 25 workstations in two different computer labs. This saved the school the costs of buying more machines, time in installation of extra machines, and energy costs.   ? Mounted NEC and EPSON projectors and either SMART Boards or Mimio xi Interactive Boards, along with software applications to operate them in 35 classrooms.  ? Used Microsoft’s Active Directory in a Windows Server 2003 environment to create, edit, and manage user accounts for a staff of 75 and a student body of 850. This included assigning home directories, creating new student and staff domain accounts with specific permissions and group policies, and removing student and staff accounts from the directory.  ? Prepared 200 desktop workstations in classrooms, labs, and offices for upcoming school year by replacing failed hardware components, upgrading RAM, replacing work keyboards and mice, and seeing that each staff member had a reliable workstation to perform their specific duties.  ? Prepared many new machines and 50 laptops using Acronis True Image 10 and 2009 by preparing one machine with needed applications and configuration in order to replicate on all the other new machines, thereby saving significant time and resources it would take to set up each machine individually.  ? Assembled two mobile laptop carts, arranging power cables and AC adapters along inserts to allow for organized access to laptops and easy process of plugging them back in to charge. Elementary Teacher Berean Christian School - West Palm Beach, FL 2002 to 2005 Work closely with grade-level teachers and administration to provide quality education at a 3 rd grade level.    Selected Contributions:  ? Involved with curriculum committee to prepare school for accreditation with Association of Christian  Schools International (ACSI).  ? Used limited technology resources to deliver content and introduce students to changes in classroom  technology.  ? Successfully tutored different grade level students to achieve higher grades focusing on fundamental and specialized skills. Tutored students in Math and Language Arts. Education B.S. in Specialized Ministries Clarks Summit University - Clarks Summit, PA September 1999 to May 2002 Western Governors University Skills Active Directory, Vmware, System Administrator, System Admin, Linux, AWS, Powershell Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/geeklifenow/ https://geeklifenow.com https://github.com/GeekLifeNow Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ CompTIA Network+ MCTS AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associate February 2018 to February 2020