Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator - MassTile Watertown, MA Work Experience Systems Administrator MassTile - Boston, MA March 2018 to Present • Installed and configured firewall, vpn, routers, switches, and ensured full network connectivity.  • Installed, configured, and maintained Microsoft servers 2016 running on LAN with Active Directory, DNS  services and DHCP server.  • Installed and configured Linux servers with CentOS and Ubuntu server.  • Monitored all the servers and performed installation of patches and packages.  • Troubleshot internal hardware, software, and peripheral malfunctions. System Administrator Vostok Corp - Boston, MA July 2015 to February 2018 • Installed and configured firewall, vpn, routers, switches, and ensured full network connectivity.  • Created user account groups, assigned rights and permissions for files and folders, configured and maintained  secure group policy, setup network shares/permissions, and home directories.  • Installed and configured devices such as desktop computers, laptops, IP phones, printers, and scanners.  • Quickbooks Premier setup, maintenance, database backup.  • Maintained physical and VM servers on Windows and Linux. Technical Support Specialist MasterGroup - Krasnoyarsk, RU April 2012 to June 2015 • Performed light network administration for newly installed machines for the users: login issues, password re- set, email login. Supported printers and print management.  • Daily provides hands-on administration and maintenance of other associated network equipments. Installed  and configures computer equipment software with required software policies and standards.  • Performed hardware and software installation and provides high-level customer care, training, and technical  support.  • Troubleshoot, researched, diagnosed, documented and resolved technical issues in Windows XP, 7, Server2008, MS Office, email setup and LAN/WAN connectivity issues. Education Bachelor of Economics in Information Technologies Russian Academy of Public Administration - Novosibirsk, RU 2003 to 2008 Skills System Administrator, Linux, Active Directory, Linux Administrator, System Admin, Vmware