Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Fort Worth, TX A creative problem-solver and technology professional with a strong ability to plan, develop, maintain and execute technical operations. A  process optimizer with management skills who can analyze, determine and rapidly assess and solve technical problems in critical situations.  A creative visionary with ability to establish relationships and achieve desired outcomes. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator TEXLAND PETROLEUM - Fort Worth, TX October 2017 to Present ? Deployment and day-to-day monitoring of LOB systems  ? Solarwinds network monitoring deployment  ? Weekly network security evaluations and employee training  ? Configuration, updating and deployment of Sonicwall  ? Maintenance of Veeam backup server and cross-site replication  ? Constant management and updating of GPO  ? Centralized patch management (WSUS)  ? Integration of AD with MS Azure  ? Implementation of SSO with LDAP  ? Created knowledge base for IT department  ? Maintenance and upgrades of server hardware, software  ? Monitor Sophos and Malwarebytes consoles  ? Ongoing work with vendors to seek better solutions for the company  ? Remote field user support  ? Company-wide asset management  ? Deployment of vSAN infrastructure through partnership with Dell  ? On-call for emergencies in a rotating shift  ? Purchase recommendations for hardware, software  ? Deployment of O365 Suite and migration to cloud  ? RBAC data access management  ? ESXi and VMware deployment  ? SPAM controls via Microsoft EOP  ? Management of Exchange server and services Technical Support Specialist CMIT SOLUTIONS - Fort Worth, TX April 2016 to October 2017 ? Approximately 100 client sites supported  ? Receive phone calls while delegating escalations  ? Blind troubleshooting of new networks and systems  ? Vendor support for clients  ? Use of SCCM as required by the business  ? On-call for emergencies in a rotating shift  ? Assist with migration of email from on-premise Exchange to O365  ? Support for new clients with little to no background data available  ? Support for Sonicwall and Watchguard firewalls  ? Registration of new clientele  ? Servicing and maintaining LOB applications  ? Keep up-to-date on new and improving services, software and hardware  ? Coordination with sister-offices of CMIT  ? Outlook 2003-2016 support  ? Office 365 administration and licensing  ? Ubiquity WAP administration  ? Sonicwall administration and deployment  ? VMWare/Vsphere deployment and maintenance  ? Windows Home Server backup NAS units  ? Continuum RMM Services  ? Autotask ticketing system  ? Backup cloud services  ? Support for NAS arrays Network Integrations Technician ARIELMIS - Boulder, CO January 2016 to April 2016 ? Customer relations and damage control  ? Maintained and monitored dozens of clients  ? Take client calls, create documentation and delegate  ? Purchase recommendations for clients  ? On-call for emergencies 24/7 in a rotating shift  ? Service LOB applications  ? Provide on-the-fly support for new clients  ? Manage email hosting via Smartermail  ? Build custom hardware to client specifications  ? Vsphere and VMware support  ? Windows Server 2008-2012 administration  ? Datto systems support  ? Kerio Control firewall configuration and admin  ? Kerio PBX administration  ? Adtran WAP partnership  ? Connectwise, Labtech Suite utilization and automation  ? Office 365 suite administration  ? Google apps for business administration Technician & Radial Operator ANTHEM DISPLAYS - Boulder, CO October 2015 to January 2016 ? Operated and maintained L.E.D. radial insertion machine  ? Quality control measures with all aspects of PCBs  ? Assembled each module according to strict, evolving guidelines  ? Assisted with final construction of end-product  ? Practiced specialized engineering principles  ? Troubleshoot issues with coding and programming  ? Maintenance of Linux servers IT Consultant/Technician TEKSYSTEMS - Fort Worth, TX February 2014 to July 2015 ? Work without supervision for long periods  ? Assisted users in backing up crucial data  ? Collaborated with remote technicians for domain migrations  ? Migration of systems from XP to Win7  ? Troubleshoot network connectivity  ? Troubleshoot user account issues  ? Large scale coordination with user base for migrations  ? Documented workflows based on input from management  ? Imaging and troubleshooting computers for deployment  ? Tracking and maintenance of inventory  ? Purchase recommendations  ? Configuration of PXE imaging  ? Mobile device management  ? Hyena (AD) administration  ? Microsoft Office Suite management  ? Lotus Notes administration  ? Livelink file sharing  ? SAP administration  ? VPN troubleshooting  ? Cisco IP phone systems administration  ? Cisco switch administration  ? Management of Windows Server 2008-2012 images Technical Associate BLUEGREEN IT - Richardson, TX September 2010 to March 2014 ? Custom Android tablet imaging via ADB  ? Develop working knowledge of Linux stack  ? Develop working knowledge of Windows Server environment  ? Basic NAS and other storage option configurations  ? Build familiarity with networking and OSI modeling  ? File server configuration and administration  ? Design and implement custom computer systems  ? Setup and configuration of Fortinet firewalls  ? Remote backup systems support  ? Practice industry-standard security configurations  ? Service and maintain client websites  ? Document SOPs and maintain knowledge base  ? Cold calling for new clientele  ? Onsite support as required by the business  ? Manage basic VPN connectivity  ? Microsoft Office Suite licensing  ? Support for POP, IMAP, Exchange protocols  ? SPAM filtering applied on per-client basis Education High school or equivalent Skills Microsoft Office Suite, RAID, Windows Server, Active Directory, Hyper-V, ESXi, VMware, Vsphere, Microsoft Exchange, Office 365, Sonicwall, VPN, GPO, SAN, vSAN, RMM, MDM, DHCP, DNS, Webroot, Sophos, Malwarebytes, Network Security, Scripting, SCCM, Backup solutions, Remote support, PBX, WAP, Google Apps, TCP/IP, Network Management, SOP, Video Editing, Barracuda, Microsoft EOP, Solarwinds, Veeam, SNMP, Project Management, RBAC, Linux, Mac OS X, Android, iOS Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ November 2016 to November 2019 CompTIA Network+ January 2017 to January 2020 Certified HIPAA Professional (CHP) Additional Information ? Windows Server 2008-2016  ? Active Directory  ? Hyper-V  ? ESXi  ? VMware, Vsphere  ? Microsoft Office Suite  ? Microsoft Exchange  ? Exchange migration  ? Office 365  ? Sonicwall  ? VPN  ? GPO  ? SAN  ? vSAN  ? RMM Support  ? RAID arrays  ? MDM  ? DHCP  ? DNS  ? Webroot  ? Sophos  ? Malwarebytes  ? Network security  ? Scripting  ? SCCM  ? Onsite backup  ? Cloud backup  ? Remote support  ? PBX systems  ? WAP management  ? Google GSuite  ? TCP/IP  ? Network monitoring  ? SOP production  ? Video editing  ? Photo editing  ? Website construction  ? Website maintenance  ? Barracuda  ? Microsoft EOP  ? Solarwinds  ? Veeam  ? SNMP  ? Purchasing  ? RBAC  ? Linux  ? Mac  ? Project management