Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Playworld Sunbury, PA Information Technology Professional with 20+ years of experience. More than 18 of those years have been in manufacturing, building a strong working knowledge in many aspects of IT from desktop and server hardware/software to network infrastructure and industrial manufacturing processes. Skilled in large scale deployments as well as having an intimate knowledge and understanding of departmental needs emphasizing on minimal down time. I have a passion for manufacturing and enjoy working in and around that environment. Work Experience Systems Administrator Playworld - Lewisburg, PA May 1999 to Present Tasked with supporting all technology within the Lewisburg and New Berlin facilities, and recently added worldwide support as we joined an organization that has six physical locations throughout the United States and three in Europe. I work closely with all of our departments to determine systemic needs, recommend changes, implement new software and instructing users on best practice and use.    Current Areas of Responsibility include:  - Active Directory and email administration.  - Install, configure, and support Microsoft desktop and server OS's.  - Installation and support printers, Mytel phones, wireless access points, PC and Apple computers.  - Document policies and procedures to prevent recurring issues.  - Consult with department leaders on a regular basis to maintain current standards and best practices.  - Maintain all shop floor equipment (CNC Machines, Label Printers, Scanners, PLC's, and Communication boards). Computer Technician Tempe, AZ February 1997 to April 1999 Lead technician for OEM channel assembly and configuration line. Built and configured various desktop/laptop and server systems to customer specifications. Diagnosed and resolved hardware failures, device conflicts, configuration problems and network issues. Computer Technician/CAD Operator Dave Bang Associates - Mesa, AZ August 1996 to February 1997 Implemented and operated the CAD department. Performed technical support on all in house PC and Apple computers. Designed residential playground and park layouts, assemblies, and solid models to meet customer needs and specifications. Education Bachelor of CAD Technology in Virtual Reality University of Advancing Technology - Tempe, AZ August 1996 to March 1999 Technology Sun Area Technical School - New Berlin, PA August 1994 to June 1995