Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - THE EXPERTS INC Bowie, MD • Recommend the implementation of MDM VMARE Airwatch software to assist with mobile device management and inventory, which will result in a more efficient and productive Diplomatic Security process for inventory.  • Acquired military and professional knowledge, skills and abilities that propelled innovative technical solutions.  • Designed and employed strategic plan for development practices that supported long-term future projects.  • Deployed new test design specifications for all new features to ensure adherence to service levels.  • Streamlined process of imaging updating and patching equipment that has limited accessibility.  • Integrated Agile and Scrum methodologies into software engineering processes. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator THE EXPERTS INC - Rosslyn, VA 2017 to Present Principal strategist for IT processes, including system administration, software, security and testing. Manage and maintain servers that host various enterprise level software applications, and monitor potential security vulnerabilities and patches. Lead staff in completing multiple projects, ensuring long-term requirements of systems operations and administration are included in the overall information systems planning of the organization.  • Deliver elite customer service using Remedy Ticketing system, through responsive interfacing, problem assessment, prompt determination of corrective actions and comprehensive follow-up.  • Conducted research, received enterprise-level approval for and implemented SMART Bridgit software to create test.  • Utilized Visio 2010 to create diagrams for server room unclassified/classified servers, and design network topology.  • Troubleshot and repaired down servers via Net Backup and added encryptions to all new servers. Systems Administrator 22nd CENTURY TECHNOLOGIES (FBI) - Vienna, VA 2016 to Present Managed project scheduling for accounts and mobiles devices, and physical framework for multifunction printers (MFPs). Monitored activity, server racks, and accounts consisting of password resets, updated user information and lockouts.  • Reimagined numerous aspects of records management systems with System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM) to reduce manual verification and processing time.  • Generated specialized accounts for offshore partners and configured mobile devices, such as Galaxy S5. SR Desktop Support Technician AMARAM - Washington, DC 2015 to 2016 Accepted accountability of issues from end-to-end, ensuring expedited resolution and user satisfaction. Supported access to corporate network/wireless and application both on network as well as over VPN.  • Produced new images, reimaged used laptops and delivered software to users with SSCM functions.  • Designated go-to-expert for Ricoh and HP printer repairs, resolutions and inventory management. Desktop Support Technician APEX SYSTEMS (FBI) - Washington, DC 2014 to 2015 Provided IT support services to organization and ensured functionality of systems and services. Directed operating system and software installation, and hardware configuration.  • Resolved profile and computer issues via Active Directory and handled ticketing system with Service Manager.  • Performed updates for Dell PCs and Lexmark printers, all troubleshooting activities and remote repairs. Systems Administrator/Ops Manager CKA, LLC - Arlington, VA 2011 to 2013 Efficiently monitored nine company-wide trouble ticket queues and maintained all networking devices and infrastructure across the enterprise. Activated accounts for clients seeking new services, and identified and fixed all technical issues.  • Solved technical issues with multiple diagnostic tools including Active Directory, DameWare and Remedy ticketing.  • Accurately diagnosed system hardware and software issues through advanced root-cause analysis. DESKTOP SUPPORT TECHNCIAN The Computer Merchants - Washington, DC 2010 to 2011 IT ASSET AUDITOR/TIER 2 SUPPORT TECHNICIAN TekSystems - Washington, DC 2010 to 2010 2010 FIELD SERVICE TECHNICIAN TIER - Washington, DC 2009 to 2010 Education BOWIE STATE UNIVERSITY - Bowie, MD Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY (4 years), REMEDY (3 years), VPN (1 year), VISIO (Less than 1 year), CISCO (Less than 1 year), System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  SSCM SMART Bridgit Fast-C MDM VMWARE/AIRWATCH Visio BelManage HP ProLiant DL360 Gen8 & Gen9  Windows 7/10 Active Directory DameWare Remedy Software VPN Software Windows Sever 2008/2012 R2  MS SQL Oracle 10g/11g LAN/WAN Routers/Firewalls/Switches Ubuntu Cisco Merakil