Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Black Hills Federal Credit Union Rapid City, SD Work Experience Systems Administrator Black Hills Federal Credit Union August 2017 to Present 1. In charge of Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM), managing the following:  • PC imaging: Creating automated OS installs, and Windows OS version upgrades.  • Software: Managing software libraries and creating silent and automated installs.  • Network: Setting up and monitoring software distribution points at multiple locations.  • Hardware: Making sure all hardware is accounted for.  2. Manage all printers and print servers. Multiple MFD printers managed with Papercut.  • Migrated multiple print servers to 2 centralized servers.  • Monitor and configure all printers  • Manage print provider software PaperCut  3. Managed Active Directory  • Monitored the creation of groups and users  • Utilized Group policy to restrict the use of unauthorized software with AppLocker  4. In charge of all 3rd party patches.  • Install 3rd party patches in a timely manner on all PCs IT Support Specialist Black Hills Federal Credit Union - Rapid City, SD August 2017 to Present • Monitored Help Desk and collaborated with all staff.  • Imaged PCs using SCCM.  • Worked with Active Directory to create new users and remove terminated employees.  • Worked closely with front end staff.  • Managed end of month process for our core software IT Support Specialist Coca-Cola Bottling Company High Country - Rapid City, SD June 2016 to August 2017 • Provided thorough support and problem resolution for nearly 1000 employees  • Administer network activities and troubleshoot connectivity issues for 28 sales centers in 7 states  • Administer Active Directory and email services running exchange 2010  • Create and deploy OS images using WDS  • Maintain hardware functionality Education Associate of arts in Information Technology University of Phoenix March 2016 to June 2017 Associate of Computer Science in Network Security and System Administration Western Dakota Technical Institute Skills Vmware, Linux, Active Directory, System Admin, System Administrator, SCCM Certifications/Licenses Information Assurance July 2017 to Present Additional Information Skills    During my career in IT, I have not only learned the technical side of things but have demonstrated my  people skills. I am able to understand the frustrations of non-technical employees, and work with  employees to find a solution together. I can learn quickly to take on new responsibilities.