Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT - Systems Analyst Dallas, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Premier Logitech LLC - Coppell, TX April 2019 to Present • vSphere Administration & Design (Full VM environment + P-to-V migrations)  • Sonicwall Administration (SSL VPN tunneling to phase out use of logmein / teamviewer)  • Patch Management (WSUS and MDT, some SCCM)  • Image Management (Golden Images captured for various departments and deployed.)  • Server/Network Closet (Installations, upkeep, troubleshooting)  • Endpoint Management & Desktop Troubleshooting  • Domain Administration (DNS/DHCP/AAD/DCs/File Structure)  • o365 Domain Administration  • Unitrends Backup & SAN Administration  • SOC2 & NIST Compliance Training & Implementation (Security Audits) IT Analyst Priority Labs - Richardson, TX January 2017 to March 2019 • Management of medium size business IT, including network infrastructure, servers, VOIP, desktop and MDM support.  • Provided support for a wide range of OS and Servers from 2000 to 2012, and Windows 2000 to Windows 10.  • Provided support for legacy systems on lab machines, developing custom solutions for necessary updates to hardware & software.  • Overhauled business IT to best practice standards for AD and GPOs, Security Groups, Storage, Servers, and Network Infrastructure.  • Spearheaded custom projects from Texas Instruments, AT&T, Fedex, related to business expansion and new contracts for Priority Labs.  • Development of new business work techniques for mobile phone failure analysis. Sr. Systems Engineer (Contractor & Consultant) Robert Half Technology - Dallas-Fort Worth, TX July 2016 to January 2017 Assigned to various contracts of shifting length, scope, and variety of work at many different companies ranging from:    • Creation of custom IT solutions for proprietary business needs of various scopes to integrate and streamline operations.  • vmWare Server Administration including Setup & Deployment  • 2500+ Server farm upgrades. (Virtual & Physical)  • Active Directory restructuring and in some cases complete reworks.  • Custom Scripting of proprietary programs, active directory, and monitoring tools.  • Onsite and new building deployments of network and server infrastructure, hardware & software.  • Remote Enterprise network, server & desktop support.  • Hardware and Software purchasing and multi-year business contract consultant for firms without the expertise.  • CEO/VIP Level on-call support for high value contracts. Senior Systems & Network Analyst Deoleo USA, Inc. - Dallas, TX December 2015 to June 2016 Deoleo USA, Inc. – Dallas, TX  • Managed migration of all company servers and network infrastructure from Houston to Dallas, TX.  • Oversaw new building migration, server & infrastructure, and internal cabling setup & deployment.  • Revamped GPO, VPN Tunneling, and software deployment practices for efficiency and automation.  • Single-handedly managed all onboarding, offboarding and day-to-day support of users & infrastructure.  • Managed all purchasing, licensing, and corporate contracts for hardware and software deployments.  • Managed support for Spanish, German, Australian, Dutch, Mexican and Canadian satellite offices.  • Supported business operations by learning SAP, EDI Transmission, and MEI Promotions software. IT Systems Analyst Adolfson & Peterson Construction - Richardson, TX July 2014 to December 2015 Adolfson & Peterson Construction - Richardson, TX  • Identified and patched long standing security and network issues within weeks of being hired.  • Completed paid certifications for VMware Horizon Mirage and vSphere server administration.  • Completed paid training for Airwatch MDM server administration.  • Tracked over 600 various mobile devices and administered them using Airwatch MDM.  • Analyzed data trends, providing root level fixes to curb high ticket volumes and increase productivity.  • Managed all Telecom, Mobile, Security, and Internet services for the company to cut costs through negotiations with external account executives.  • Vetted and finalized all IT solutions, working with numerous software and hardware vendors for corporate wide implementation.  • Worked as part of a 24/7 On Call Support team for the corporation and all of its regional locations. 2nd Level Remote Desktop Support Computer Sciences Corporation - Coppell, TX September 2011 to June 2014 Computer Sciences Corporation - Coppell, TX  • 97% First Call Resolution Rate as a Desktop Support Technician.  • Top ticket closure count and highest overall volume in assigned accounts every month since hire.  • Received 4 “Essential Piece” awards recognizing performances month after month.   • Promotion within 6 months to 2nd Level Remote Desktop Tech, working from my home the following three years for the corporation.  • Made a permanent employee of CSC within 6 months from contract start date. IT Administration Specialist Wise Recycling LLC - Charlotte, NC April 2010 to August 2011 Wise Recycling, LLC - Charlotte, NC  • Reduced receipt and document printing times by 600% through network and print server optimization.  • Innovated and designed custom slideshow systems and presentation areas for customers as well as managed all digital advertising and marquee displays.  • Operated as traveling Systems Technician for remote locations in GA and FL. IT Service Specialist The Lockheed Martin Corporation - Indianapolis, IN January 2008 to March 2010 Lockheed Martin Corporation - Indianapolis, IN  • Received over 30 customer service recognitions with Lockheed Martin.  • Achieved numerous performance awards for highest call resolution and volume rates. Education Colleyville Heritage High School - Colleyville, TX 2002 to 2006 Additional Information Highlights of Qualifications:  13 Years - IT Experience.  7 Years - Network Administrator.  7 Years - Windows Server Administrator. (2003, 2008, and 2012)  7 Years - Enterprise Level Remote and On-Site Desktop Support.  7 Years - Mobile Device Support and MDM (iOS, Android, BlackBerry)  6 Years - Desktop Support.  4 Years - Proprietary internal software as well as accounting, reporting, or data apps (Deltek, Spectrum, AIA, Prolog, SAP, EDI, MEI)  3 Years - VMware and vSphere.  3 Years - PowerShell experience: resolved email issues, deployed software, created tools for technicians to resolve common issues, designed active directory audits and issue resolution, created server monitoring scripting and alerts, extracted data from SAP  3 Years - RIM (BES) Enterprise Technician.  3 Years - Firewall Support : Palo Alto and SonicWall  3 Years - Airwatch MDM Enterprise Administrator.  1 to 5 Years - Ticketing systems: Remedy, ServiceNow, Kaseya, CA Technologies USD, Zendesk, Spiceworks  1 Year - Linux server configuration and setup    IT Knowledge:  Certified VMware Horizon Mirage and vSphere Server Administrator.  Expert in Windows XP, Windows 7, and Windows 10 Enterprise Solutions.  Expert in Mass Imaging and Software Deployment Solutions. (SCCM, vmWare Horizon Mirage, Altiris)  Expert in job site, residential, commercial, and industrial server & network infrastructure installation.  Expert in Network Attached Storage and Cloud Storage Solutions.  Expert in A+ and computer hardware builds.  Expert with Active Directory, storage, networking, and server overhauls & upgrades.  Expert at site-to-site relocations, moving entire server and network infrastructures without help.  Adept at Exchange Server to Office 365 Cloud email migrations.  Adept with Cisco, Adtran, Dell, Netgear, Riverbed, etc, networking solutions.  Basic experience with SQL queries and troubleshooting interactions with software