Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Healthways, Inc Weirton, WV Systems Administrator    A self-motivated individual with excellent technical, analytical and communication skills with over thirty years' experience in programming, teaming and leadership roles with diverse populations and age groups. Work Experience Systems Administrator Healthways, Inc - Weirton, WV 2005 to Present Manage and monitoring Unix, Linux and Windows servers, network, workstations, copiers, phone systems.  I wrote computer programs to convert paper billings to 4010 electronic billings.  I wrote computer programs to convert 4010 electronic billings to 5010 electronic billings.  I wrote downloads and uploads for Kepro (authorizations and modifications).  I wrote the CSDR (download all services to State of WV).  Update all websites for billing, 3rd party, Medicaid, Medicare, MCO, CAQH and Kepro.  Work with CAQH for credentialing staff for billing.  Repair windows based workstations.  Install printers and fax machines in satellite offices.  Create permissions on servers for all staff.  Create new e-mail for staff on our Exchange server.  Perform orientation on new staff.  Perform daily backups on servers. Systems Administrator Fitzsimmons Law Offices - Wheeling, WV 2004 to 2005 Involved in all facets: financial, hardware, programming, promotional for WKKX Radio Station.  Setup Windows servers, network and workstations at the Law Offices.  Lead technical person to setup WKKX Radio Station.  Setup satellite for Radio station from ESPN to talk radio.  Setup windows based workstations.  Worked as an announcer for live broadcasts.  Networked all offices for Robert Fitzsimmons, Esq.  Converted all DOS programs to Microsoft Office.  Setup Exchange server for main office.  Purchased new computers for offices. Systems Administrator Northwood Health Systems - Wheeling, WV 2000 to 2004 Manage Unix and Windows servers, network and workstations.  Setup all new servers in main and satellite offices.  Setup electronic medical records for all offices.  Built new workstations to replace old workstations in all offices.  Installed network cable in all offices.  Installed printers and fax machines in all offices.  Established a work order system and prioritized all computer work to be performed.  I wrote computer programs to convert paper to 4010 electronic billings.  Performed orientation to all staff. Systems Administrator Community Mental Health Services - Saint Clairsville, OH 1984 to 2000 Managed Unix and Windows servers, network and workstations.    I wrote computer programs to convert the paper billings to 4010 electronic billings.    Installed printers and fax machines in all satellite offices.    Installed Unix server.    Wrote Data Verification reports to the State of Ohio.    Wrote downloads to send data to the State of Ohio on a monthly basis.    Consulted for Ohio User Group using Netsmart Technologies. Education Data Processing West Virginia Northern Community College - Wheeling, WV 1979 to 1982 Wheeling Park High School 1976 to 1979 General +7 credits Netsmart Technologies center for education - Wheeling, WV 1976 Skills Air compliance (Less than 1 year), billing (10+ years), collections (Less than 1 year), compliance regulations (Less than 1 year), Credit (Less than 1 year), customer service. (Less than 1 year), database (Less than 1 year), desktop applications (Less than 1 year), Dos (1 year), Excel (Less than 1 year), Exchange (10+ years), Liaison (Less than 1 year), maintenance (Less than 1 year), Medicaid (10+ years), medical records (4 years), mental health (Less than 1 year), Microsoft excel (Less than 1 year), Microsoft exchange (Less than 1 year), Microsoft sharepoint (Less than 1 year), printers (10+ years), Active Directory, Vmware, System Administrator, Linux, System Admin, Desktop Support, Help Desk, Service Desk