Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator Las Vegas, NV To obtain a position that challenges me to excel and exceed all expectations demanded of that occupation. Work Experience Systems Administrator Downtown Grand Las Vegas February 2019 to Present -Maintain Virtual & physical Servers   -Apply Patches and Updates to all servers   -Pulling logs from gaming system  -creating and maintaining Virtual environments  -MS Admin  -Active Directory Admin   -Server migration  -VMWARE Service Desk Lead/Help Desk Supervisor Golden Entertainment - Las Vegas, NV February 2017 to January 2019 Lead a Team of Technicians to meet overall goals and Complete Major projects.  ? Work with Executives to resolve any IT related issues.  ? Team Coordinator.  ? Project management. (Ex: Exchange server Migration, Domain Migration, Network Infrastructure.)  ? Ability to work with AD and create new users, add permissions, disable users.  ? Maintain Servers.  ? Responsible for creating IT documentation.  ? Ability to work and troubleshoot many different Applications. (ex. Exchange, SharePoint, Remote software, etc.)  ? Configure Network Switches and Routers (Brocade, Cisco, HP)  ? Patch Network, Run patch cables.  ? Tone and configure ports on our Switch.  ? Cable managements and Visio Mapping of Network Infrastructure.  ? Support Corporate Phone system (Mitel) add extensions, create new extensions, Updates. Help Desk Technician/ Desktop support Golden Entertainment - Las Vegas, NV September 2016 to March 2017 Troubleshoot remotely or over the phone. Work with Active directory.  ? Imaging, repairs and general maintenance of computers/ laptops and apple devices.  ? Troubleshoot Computers, laptops, conference equipment all in a corporate environment.  ? Set up workstations and deploy Mobile devices.  ? POS troubleshooting/ Repair.  ? MDM Lead.  ? Work with Servers and maintenance.  ? Deploy Mobile devices and troubleshoot any Problem.  ? Run Data Cables.  ? Tone and Enable Ports on our Networking equipment.  ? Troubleshot and configure Wireless access points. Help Desk technician/ AS400 The Odom Corporation - Bellevue, WA March 2016 to September 2016 Service handheld, iPad, laptops, desktops, thin clients, servers, smartphones, access points, and a variety of printers and work phones.  ? Troubleshoot AS400 issues.  ? OS X (Mac) lead technician.  ? Troubleshoot remotely or over the phone. Work with Active directory.  ? Hardware repair on mobile devices, laptops, desktops, all Apple products, printers, servers, warehouse mobile device repair. Computer Technician Clark County School District/Appleone - Las Vegas, NV June 2015 to January 2016 Field services technician responsible for responding to various CCSD locations to assist with Technology problems  ? Assist students with training of Apple products associated with Title 1 projects  ? Imaging, repairs and general maintenance of computers/ laptops and apple devices  ? Work with all kinds of people from Children to Adults to resolve any IT related issue. Technical Manager/ IT Support Laptop Xchange - Las Vegas, NV June 2011 to November 2015 Services laptops, desktops, tablets and smartphones for a wide variety of repairs  ? Front desk support one on one with customers  ? Upgrade computer hard drives, ram, video cards, processors and system fans, etc  ? Responsible for servicing devices using Virus Removal and PC Check software Internship Laptop Xchange - Las Vegas, NV June 2010 to June 2011 Door greeting  ? Minor computer troubleshooting  ? Sales/Inventory  ? Social media promotion Education Associate in Information Technology Asher College - Las Vegas, NV June 2015 to June 2017 Las Vegas High School Skills Comptia (Less than 1 year), Customer service (Less than 1 year), Excel (Less than 1 year), Hardware repair (Less than 1 year), Mobile devices. (1 year), System Administrator, Linux, Active Directory, Vmware, System Admin, Linux Administrator Additional Information Skills  ? CompTIA A+ Certified  ? Laptop Xchange Certified Technician  ? 5+ years' experience in IT Customer Service / 3+ Years' experience as an IT Manager  ? Knowledgeable with PC and Mac products/ software  ? Experience with Microsoft Office including Word/ Excel/ PowerPoint  ? Bilingual in English and Spanish  ? Experience in many different work environment.  ? Ability to lead a team to achieve daily tasks & finish major projects.  ? Experience with many Mobile devices/ Warehouse handheld devices.  ? Computer Hardware Repair Technician.