Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Bennet, NE Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Soarin Group, LLC - Lincoln, NE March 2019 to Present • Install new / rebuild existing servers and configure hardware, peripherals, services, settings, directories, storage, etc. in accordance with standards and project/operational requirements  • Develop and maintain installation and configuration procedures  • Contribute to and maintain system standards  • Research and recommend innovative, and where possible automated approaches for system administration tasks. Identify approaches that leverage our resources and provide economies of scale.  • Perform daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware, server resources, systems and key processes, reviewing system and application logs, and verifying completion of scheduled jobs such as backups  • Perform regular security monitoring to identify any possible intrusion  • Perform daily backup operations, ensuring all required file systems and system data are successfully backed up to the appropriate media, recovery tapes or disks are created, and media is recycled and sent off site as necessary  • Perform regular file archival and purge as necessary  • Create, change, and delete user accounts per request  • Provide support per request from various clients  • Investigate and troubleshoot issues  • Repair and recover from hardware or software failures. Coordinate and communicate with impacted clients  • Apply OS patches and upgrades on a regular basis, and upgrade administrative tools and utilities. Configure/add new services as necessary  • Upgrade and configure system software that supports infrastructure applications per project or operational needs  • Maintain operational, configuration, or other procedures  • Perform periodic performance reporting to support capacity planning  • Perform ongoing performance tuning, hardware upgrades, and resource optimization as required. Configure CPU, memory, and disk partitions as required  • Maintain data center environmental and monitoring equipment  • Participate in on-call rotation IT Technician HOMESERVICES OF NEBRASKA - Lincoln, NE February 2018 to March 2019 • Set-up and maintain computer hardware, software and related equipment and provide technical support to staff and agents.  • Act as primary phone and in-person helpdesk. Provide technical assistance over the phone, remotely, and in person to staff and agents. Junior Network Administrator NEBCO INC - Lincoln, NE March 2017 to February 2018 • Mange security camera NVR appliances and IP cameras.  • Administer mobile device management software for corporate and personal devices Junior Systems Administrator NEBCO INC - Lincoln, NE March 2016 to March 2017 • Install software patches and update hardware on physical and virtual servers.  • Assist administration of user group policy, printer management, Microsoft Exchange policy, and Windows operating system upgrades. PC / Help Desk Technician NEBCO INC - Lincoln, NE August 2015 to March 2016 • Troubleshoot network, hardware, and software issues onsite and remotely • Prepare Computers, Multifunction Printers, Fax Machines, VoIP phones, and Uninterrupted Power Supplies to be taken onsite. Bench/ Help Desk Technician INTELLICOM COMPUTER CONSULTING - Kearney, NE February 2014 to August 2015 • Assist walk-in customers with hardware and software related issues.  • Conduct clean-up of viruses, malware, and ransomware for walk-in and managed services customers. Education Master of Arts degree in History UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA - Kearney, NE December 2012 Bachelor of Arts degree in History PERU STATE COLLEGE - Peru, NE May 2009 Skills Android (2 years), Cisco (Less than 1 year), CompTIA (5 years), DHCP (1 year), DNS (1 year), Help Desk, Information Technology, Desktop Support, It Specialist