Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator United States A Goal-oriented CompTIA Network+ Certified Systems Administrator with three years of Windows Administration experience implementing, managing, and maintaining servers, software, equipment including VMs, Servers, LAN, WAN, and MAN networks. Work Experience Systems Administrator Sora Technologies - Peoria, IL May 2018 to December 2018 • Provided optimization, administration, and technical documentation of enterprise infrastructure systems to more than 28 companies local and worldwide.  • This included monitoring of databases, computer and network equipment, software issues, and other issues that would arise daily ranging from security breaches to user concerns.  • Often tasks included setting up Office 365 accounts and troubleshooting issues with Skype, Teams, and E-mail.  • Account enable/disable  • Connectivity troubleshooting (Teams, Skype, Outlook)  • Backup and restore emails as needed  • Setup Teams accounts  • Windows 10 Updates, software troubleshooting  • Printer Setup  • VMWare  ? HyperV (troubleshooting, maintenance)  • ConnectWise ticketing system/Support and Account access  • What other tech. did you support?  • Powershell  ? Office 365  * Manage Groups/Licenses/Assign Roles  * Create Accounts/Reports  * Manage Skype Policies  * Configure user properties  • Hardware Support  ? Firewall  ? AP, Router, Switch  ? Server  • Non-daily tasks were projects involving upgrades to client equipment and software. PC/Server patching as needed. Service Desk Representative II Advanced Technology Services - Peoria, IL November 2014 to May 2018 • Helped resolve computer and network related issues regarding user access through remote assistance as well as being on-site for more than 40 companies that included over 50k total users.  • Issues ranged from password resets to network site outages.  • Added responsibility on weekend shifts required PC (client) and Server (OS, SCCM, etc.) patching.  • As a team we were the first line of support for Office 365 related issues involving account access and connection issues for, but not limited to e-mails, Teams, and Skype  ? Password Reset  ? Enable/Disable features within Office 365  ? O365 console backing up and restoring email  • Software updates in Windows 10  • Windows 10 installation  • Meraki Setup Using Online console  • Ticketing Systems: Autotask, Remedy, Cherwell, HP, ConnectWise, ServiceNow  • Powershell  ? Assign Roles  ? Manage Skype Policies  • Troubleshooting was done through diagnostic techniques and user questioning. Developer Stratus Networks - Peoria, IL February 2014 to October 2014 Gathered data and created a new SQL Database to reduce redundancy. Created a new database that eliminated over 70 data fields that were repeated. This project provided opportunities such as communicating to upper level management, the use of Microsoft SQL Reporting, queries using SQL, and using Java/JavaScript to communicate from the database to the website. Network Engineer/ Administrator Internship WMBD/Nexstar Broadcasting - Peoria, IL July 2013 to October 2013 Responsibilities included new user setups, installation and repair of printers, the PBX phone system, and maintaining the current network setup for approximately 135 local employees. Rewired the main office's network layout, and worked directly with the Chief Engineer on developing the fiscal budget for the following year. Warehouse Parts Expeditor G & D Integrated - Peoria, IL January 2011 to July 2012 Daily responsibilities included the processing of urgent orders, updating the parts system, correcting any inventory discrepancies, and providing daily reports to management. Other tasks that I was asked to perform was to test, implement, and also train employees on updates to the inventory control software. Easy Tech Lead Staples - Pekin, IL November 2009 to January 2011 Selling and Advising customers about Business Machines and Services that Staples offers: from Computers, Tablets, Printers, Software & Tech Services such as computer repair and set up including ON-Site services in their Home or Office. Duties also include merchandising, stocking and an upbeat, outgoing personality Data Entry Specialist G&D Integrated - Morton, IL August 2008 to July 2009 Essential duties involved reviewing, correcting, and reporting data entry errors related to invoices and inventory entered by office personnel. The goal was to verify time and date entries for received and non-received parts. Weekly reports were created using Crystal Reports to show the discrepancies in Bill of Lading’s received and entered. Other tasks involved the locating of missing parts that entered incorrectly by means of vendor contact, or surveying the warehouse Molding Castor Isabel Bloom - Davenport, IA April 1999 to March 2002 Daily tasks involved the removal, preparation, and cleanup of sculptures that were cast during the previous day. During my time at Isabel Bloom I was required to have high attention to detail, great teamwork, and patience. I handled materials that were very acidic, and the end product itself was very fragile if handled incorrectly.  Operations Manager/Crew Lead St. Clair Construction - Rock Island, IL September 1995 to April 1999 St. Clair construction built and removed concrete structures for commercial and residential needs. These included but are not limited to concrete sidewalks, patios, garage floors, and basement flooring. The positions below are my tasks during my employment listed as my last role to my original.    ·Operations Manager  o   Secure Site Permits  o   Payroll   o   Hiring and Terminations  o   Billing and Collections  o   Material Handling  · Crew Lead  o   Ordering of concrete trucks per site  o   Layout and formation of site projects  o   Project Development and task assignment  ·        General Laborer/Finisher  o   Site preparation  o   Implementing concrete project with various tools  v Hand float  v Bull float  v Power float Hull Maintenance Technician Navy - Mayport Naval Station, FL November 1992 to September 1995 As a member of the US Navy I was assigned to a maintenance shop. This shop handled the water system and various other areas that required repair and installation using welding and metal shop skills. Repair and maintain the integrity of the ship using multiple methods:    ·        Skills learned  ·        Welding (arc)  ·        Pipefitting  ·        Maintenance  ·        Damage Control  ·        Leadership  o   Fire party team lead  o   High Stress Environment  o   Critical Thinking  o   Problem Solving Education MBA in Business Management Robert Morris University July 2011 to March 2015 Bachelor's in Computer Science and Networking Robert Morris University - Peoria, IL July 2011 to March 2014 Master's in Information Technology Management Robert Morris University - Peoria, IL July 2011 to February 2014 AAS in Networking Illinois Central College - East Peoria, IL August 2006 to May 2009 Skills Active directory (5 years), Bridges (Less than 1 year), Cisco (Less than 1 year), Exchange (5 years), Firewall (Less than 1 year), Mac (3 years), maintenance (5 years), Microsoft sharepoint (Less than 1 year), Onboarding (Less than 1 year), Pbx (Less than 1 year), phone system (Less than 1 year), Quickbooks (1 year), Remedy (3 years), Secure file transfer protocol (Less than 1 year), Server support (5 years), Sftp (5 years), Sharepoint (Less than 1 year), Sql (5 years), Telnet (Less than 1 year), Vmware (5 years), System Administrator, System Admin Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ April 2021 CompTIA Network+ April 2021 Additional Information Dear Hiring Manager,    I am interested in this position after reading the qualifications and job description. I have obtained my M.B.A. and M.I.S. degrees from Robert Morris University. I have been involved in IT for more than 15 years. My interest level began with taking computer programming courses, and switched to the networking side after a few years. I have obtained two Master level degrees (M.I.S. & M.B.A.) from Robert Morris University. The Bachelor's degree area was a concentration in Cisco Networking.     My recent role as a Systems Administrator has allowed me to communicate directly with top level IT Administrators as well as Executive level members. In this position, and others in the past I have interacted with every level of employee up to the CEO/Owner. The majority of the support that I currently do is remote work. Since my time in the Navy to my current position I have worked well in the following environments and positions: solo, team, and time sensitive.    Please review my attached resume for additional details regarding my expertise and career. I will follow up to request an appointment to discuss how my experience and background can meet your needs.    Thank you for your time and consideration.    Sincerely,    Curtis St.Clair