Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Computer Administrator Hyattsville, MD My objective is to continue to expand my Information Technology skills as a Junior Network Administrator. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Real Computer Solutions - Rockville, MD April 2019 to Present - Troubleshoot, diagnose and repair major brands (primarily Dell and HP) of computers, laptops, printers, and other peripherals. Perform standard diagnostic software and test operating systems and computer components  - Meet deadlines, work independently and provide top-notch customer service to our clients.  - Interact with customers and with a positive attitude, present Real Computer Solutions and its services, solutions and products.  - Pick-up and delivery of customer equipment  - Configure and manage home networks and peripherals such as printers, computers and handheld wireless devices.  - Use TeamViewer's and LogMeIn Inc., to remotely access customers computers  - Installed premises wires (CAT5e/6) and traced network wires,  - Home Theater Installation Lead Technician Washington Talent Agency April 2013 to Present - Set up, focus and operate light fixtures and equipment  - Control consoles and auxiliary equipment  - Choose and combine colors to achieve the desired effect  - Operate the lights during the performance  - Explore new techniques and special effects  - Placement and focus of lighting fixtures for any given scene to be photographed.  - Be able to qickly solve any audio/visual/lighting issues that may occur while event is in effect  - Report any incidents before, during and after events. Project Estimator SJ and Son Construction and Trucking, LLC - Landover, MD November 2016 to April 2019 • Find projects and collect all bid documents and specification to determine location, which minority participation will be utilized, millage, and what type of classification of job it will be considered for internal purposes.  • Identify labor, material, and time requirements by studying proposals, blueprints, specifications, and related documents.  • Compute costs by analyzing labor, material, and time requirements.  • Solicit General Contractors to see if they are bidding - obtain who is doing the earthwork portion of the bid.  • Resolve potential discrepancies by collecting and analyzing information such as hours restricted.  • Maintain cost data base by entering and backing up data.  • Contributes to team effort by accomplishing related results as needed.  • Email and mail out proposals  • Relate project information to Truck Foreman and Office Team.  • Additionally - undertake IT department by setting up computers, network, switches, wireless AP, run Cat5e, set up and remove new and old emails, configure tablets, back up android phones, and troubleshoot GPS inside of fleet. Order new and recycle old cell phones, add and remove telephone lines directly with service provider. HOME AND SMALL BUSINESS SECURITY INSTALL TECHNICIAN ADT LLC - Bowie, MD March 2015 to November 2016 - Install, dismantle and reconstruct equipment required by customer or ADT Order  - Make connections and required adjustments as directed. Test operation of all components of each system to the signal-receiving center to properly establish service  - Evaluate information furnished for the job, deliver materials, layout of customer's premises and practical routes for cable, conduit and/or wiring.  - Promptly report defective material or equipment, inaccuracies or omissions in job information that may result in inadequate protection for customer use  - Follow safety practices to safeguard against injury and damage property  - Safeguard against loss of unused materials, ladders, and tools on a job site or office location  - Clean up debris from installation, patch drill holes, and return unused materials  - Perform other duties as required ASSIST LEAD Staffmark October 2014 to March 2015 - Assist Lead Engineer which locations to meet for the day to deploy new desktop Backup user documents and Outlook .pst from old desktops. Document user names, number of gigabytes being backed up; document old and new computer and old and new monitor serial and asset numbers. Differentiate between 7 series computers and 6 series computers including good, or newer style monitors and old, recyclable monitors. Replace old equipment with new computer and monitors. After computer finished initial setup, activated Microsoft Office Suite, restore backed up data, changed computer name and added to the domain. Wire management  LEAD TECHNICIAN: ASSET RECOVERY  - Assign Asset Recovery days after deployment days at a time Document older style monitors and computers via serial numbers and model numbers. Send documents to get approved to deliver to recycle center.  MONTGOMERY COUNTY PUBLIC SCHOOLS WIRELESS PROJECT  LEAD TECHNICIAN – WIRELESS PROJECT   - Led a team of 8 to disassemble Dell Latitude 3330's and replace the wireless network card I was responsible of making sure all computers were accounted for, document any computer presenting problems and keeping track of employees hours. Submitted Daily Report Statuses, Daily Timesheets, inventory sheets for each school in addition to highlighting which schools have been completed to my supervisors.  MONTGOMERY COUNTY PUBLIC SCHOOLS DESKTOP DEPLOYMENT PROJECT  June 2013 – August 2013; June 2014 – August 2014  LEAD ASSISTANT  - Support the Lead Engineer Ensure that all work areas are clean when work has been completed. Answer questions from the ITM team, responsible for the collection, transcription, and documentation of all asset tags and serial numbers of all CPUs, monitors, and printers to be inventoried. Consolidate all CD's and documentation that documentation that came with the equipment Responsible for quality control checks of all aspects of the deployment. SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR Real Computer Solutions - Gaithersburg, MD September 2013 to June 2014 - Troubleshoot, diagnose and repair major brands (primarily Dell and HP) of computers, laptops, printers, and other peripherals. Perform standard diagnostic software and test operating systems and computer components  - Meet deadlines, work independently and provide top-notch customer service to our clients.  - Interact with customers and with a positive attitude, present Real Computer Solutions and its services, solutions and products.  - Pick-up and delivery of customer equipment  - Configure and manage home networks and peripherals such as printers, computers and handheld wireless devices.  - Use TeamViewer's and LogMeIn Inc., to remotely access customers computers  - Installed premises wires (CAT5e/6) and traced network wires,  - Home Theater Installation HARDWARE TECHNICIAN SAINT ANDREW'S EPISCOPAL SCHOOL August 2012 to September 2013 - SonicWall: Access List Management and manage SonicPoints  - File Maker Pro: Data entry  - Apple Products: Manage accounts, Apple Remote Desktops, configure both wire and wireless network configurations, and service hardware.  - Various Projects: Installed premises wires (CAT5e/6) and traced network wires, installed/uninstalled/updated SMART Board hardware and software products. Configured Citrix on Thin Clients, Macs and PCs, Serviced server hardware, laptop carts, and printers. Installed and configured property settings for projectors COMPUTER TECHNICIAN UBREAKIFIX October 2012 to June 2013 - Diagnose and repair laptop and desktop computers  - Re-install Operating Systems (Ubuntu, Linux, Windows Vista and 7) and all drivers  - Count register in the beginning and the end each working day  - Document notes, price parts and repairs, call customers with detailed information about their computers  - Remove viruses, malwarebytes, and malicious files and software  - Repair cell phones with physical damages Education Bachelor's in Computer Networking and Cybersecurity University of Maryland-University College - College Park, MD June 2019 to Present Associate's in Computer Networking Systems TESST COLLEGE - Beltsville, MD Skills Computer Networking, Computer Networking (3 years), Networking (3 years), Computer Skills (5 years), Network Administration (2 years), Network Security (2 years), Network Management (2 years), Virtualization, Virtualization (1 year), Active Directory (2 years), Servers (2 years), Computer Repair (5 years), Computer Hardware (5 years), Estimating, Scheduling, budget, Outlook, Sales, Word