Systems Administrator (per diem) <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (per diem) Systems Administrator (per diem) - Health Resource Network, Inc Morristown, NJ Work Experience Systems Administrator (per diem) Health Resource Network, Inc - Florham Park, NJ August 2011 to Present Develop and maintain databases using Excel and Access  ? Provide general office support including record filing and customer support  ? Mapping websites and domain host using HTML IT Specialist LabCorp - Raritan, NJ January 2019 to January 2019 - April 20119  ? Comprehensive internal client IT support  ? Managed the migration of Windows 7 to Windows 10  ? Troubleshoot Cisco Routing  ? Provide general office support including record filing and customer support  ? Debugging software including new imaging software  ? Troubleshoot Microsoft Office and Office 365  ? Installing, configuring, updating, and removing system and application software  ? Ticketing quest service  ? Active Directory Software Technician Staples - Madison, NJ October 2015 to December 2017 Awarded Employee of the Month six months in a row  ? Preformed software and hardware installations and transferred data  ? Worked with customers to diagnose computer issues and develop repair solutions  ? Removed viruses and Trojans  ? Installed Malware prevention software and maintenance security system software  ? Ensured that problems have been adequately resolved  ? Provided support and training to customers  ? Trained new staff members in product offering  ? Assist in logistics and coordination/setup of Probe experiments and regular production program releases  ? Assist with software / database testing as assigned in support of database development teams IT Specialist Morristown Toyota - Morristown, NJ September 2017 to October 2017 Comprehensive internal client IT support  ? Configuration of laptops and desktops  ? Imaging hard drives and ticketing  ? Update company websites  ? Software Coding Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science, Information Systems Caldwell University - Caldwell, NJ August 2017 Associates in Applied Science in Computer Science, Information Systems County College of Morris - Township of Randolph, NJ August 2015 Certificate of Network Security County College of Morris 2015