Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Windows Systems Administrator Piscataway, NJ A dedicated, highly analytical, and performance-driven professional Systems Administrator with relevant years of cross-platform experience in systems administration, including analyzing, designing, installing, maintaining, and repairing hardware, software, peripherals, and networks. A strategic thinker who is good at managing server infrastructures and data-center operations across UNIX, Linux, Windows and Mac OS X platforms. Effectively plan, install, configure and optimize IT infrastructures to achieve high availability and performance. Proven ability to create and deliver solutions tied to business growth, organizational development and systems/network optimization. Skilled problem identifier and troubleshooter comfortable managing systems, projects and teams in a range of IT environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Executive Data Systems - New York, NY June 2015 to Present Software System Engineer  • Consistently determine operational feasibility by evaluating analysis, problem definition, requirements, solution development, and proposed solutions.  • Accomplished the company's main goal/objective by preparing and installing solutions by determining and designing system specifications, standards, and programming.  • Facilitated the improvement of operations by conducting systems analysis; recommending changes in policies and procedures.  • Achieved success during the course of obtaining and licensing software by obtaining required information from vendors; recommending purchases; testing and approving products.  • Strategically update job knowledge by studying state-of-the-art development tools, programming techniques, and computing equipment.  • Actively participate in educational opportunities, reading professional publications, maintaining personal networks as well as participate in professional organizations.  • Timely and actively provide information by collecting, analyzing, and summarizing development and service issues.  • Accomplish engineering and organization mission by completing related results as needed. Web Developer/ Systems Administrator Consultant/Freelance DuffisNetworks - Old Bridge, NJ December 2009 to Present As a Computer Systems Administrator/ Web Designer/ Web Developer, my responsibilities include:  • Conveniently operate and manage servers and user workstations.  • Efficiently design website for multiple clients as seem fit and needed.  • Render and is responsible for Help Desk Support (Windows XP, Windows Vista, and Windows 7, 8, Mac OSX). System Network Administrator/Consultant Netvision N.V August 2016 to February 2018 • Served as a system and network administrator for different client networks and services remotely via GFI Solarwinds Dashboard.  • Maintained virtual network for government entity via VMware VSphere network.  • Achieved success while monitoring task daily, troubleshooting and enhancing network environment as well as Windows Server 2012. Network Administrator SunPower Marine Inc - Miami, FL May 2008 to August 2008 • Spearheaded Operational/Desk side support.  • Successfully diagnosed and repaired user workstations as needed.  • Enhanced End user experience and also reduced cost management. Junior SEM Internet Marketer Analyst Profit Bridge - Cleveland, TN November 2007 to December 2007 • Orchestrated the analysis of Search Engine.  • Effectively developed Site and Paper Click and was responsible for Marketing Management. Lab Worker Southern Adventist University - Collegedale, TN August 2005 to May 2007 • Offered training in Unix/Linux core.  • Explored Ubuntu and its Kernel versions as well as explored general TCP/IP protocols. System Administrator Antillean Adventist Hospital June 2004 to August 2004 • Deployed and supported Desktop.  • Handled PC Imaging and hardware configuration, as well as Software distribution. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Systems Administration Southern Adventist University - Collegedale, TN May 2007 Skills Help Desk (8 years), Linux (1 year), Mac (8 years), Active Directory (10+ years), System Administrator (10+ years), Vmware (5 years), System Admin, Windows (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Information Technology (10+ years), Problem Resolution (6 years), Web Design (10+ years), Web Development (10+ years), Backup and Recovery (7 years), Content Delivery Network (4 years), Patch Management (3 years), Graphic Design (7 years), Microsoft Azure (1 year) Links http://duffisnetworks.com Certifications/Licenses Healthcare Information Technology June 2012 to Present A+ Certified August 2006 to August 2009 MCSA December 2003 to May 2007 MCSE In progress at the moment (Windows Server 2012 and 2016) Publications Remembering Found Information for Re-use http://bit.ly/2HsPuNo 2007-05 Abstract—This paper describes and give results of a study done to discover methods people use to remember information for re-use. People in the study used a diversity of methods to save their information for re-use. Bookmark, email to self, printout, memory, and word documents were constantly used. The method that was expected to be used more frequently - the bookmark was  rarely used by our participants. A functional analysis was studied and explained the diversity of methods used. The data found during the study, two tables were created that explicitly show the results of the methods. Finally, a proposed tool was created by the author based on these tables to improve the use of methods, especially, the use of bookmarks (Firefox) and favorite list (Internet Explorer). The analysis also helps gauge the likely success of the current tools and proposed tool in this paper. Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE  • Security Solutions  • NOS Patches & Updates  • Training & Mentoring  • LAN/WAN/NOC Administration  • Database Design & Management  • Project Management & Workflow Planning  • Technical Support & Productivity Improvement  • Systems Installation, & Configuration & Upgrading    KEY SKILLS AND COMPETENCIES  Professional  • Expert knowledge of operating systems such as Mac OS, Windows, and Linux  • Expert at assigning configuration of authentication and authorization of directory services.  • Extensive background in computers and networking systems, with abilities in building new systems, finding problems and fixing any issues.  • Proven ability to provide technical support for both hardware and software issues our users encounter.  • Ability to manage the configuration and operation of client-based computer operating systems.  • Extensive ability to monitor the system daily and respond immediately to security or usability concerns.  • Able to create and verify backups of data as well as respond to and resolve help desk requests.  • Ability to upgrade systems and processes as required for enhanced functionality and security issue resolution.  • Adept at administrating infrastructure, including firewalls, databases, malware protection software and other processes.  • Proficient in reviewing application logs with the ability to install and test computer-related equipment.  • Extensive experience with VMware with a strong ability to respond to help desk requests after hours on a limited basis.  • Excellent ability to support LANs, WANs, network segments, Internet, and intranet systems.  • Able to design and deploy networks as well as maintain network servers such as file servers, and VPN gateways.  • Adept at performing network address assignments  Personal  • Excellent listening and communication skills both oral and written.  • Able to find unique and viable solutions to the toughest of problems.  • Willing to try new things and am interested in improving efficiency on assigned tasks.  • Develop exceptional relationships with co-workers, management and end users.    TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Adept in Microsoft Active Directory and Group Policy management within a Server 2012 R2 and Windows 7/10 environment.  • Proficient in Microsoft Office Suite, Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe After Effect, GFI Mail Essentials, Exchange Server 2010, as well as GFI Remote Management, and VSphere.  • Expert in PHP, SQL, Java, XML, CSS, SQL Server, and Active Directory.  • Highly knowledgeable in Networking hardware, PC Configuration/ Repair, Active Directory, Exchange Server 2003, Cabling and Wiring, Network Cameras, Web Design, and Web Development.