Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Application Support Manager Oak Ridge, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator International Council of Shopping Centers - New York, NY March 2015 to September 2017 Maintain highest level of technical support supervision and management of I.T. assets, help desk team and data for a wide area network consisting of 100+ laptops, 100+ Desktops, 30+ Macs and 95+ servers. Maintenance and management of backups of physical and virtual servers. Work closely with the Web and Applications Teams and make critical infrastructure technology decisions and purchases based on comprehensive research.  • Monitoring and maintenance of 95+ virtual and physical servers at NJ datacenter and offices in New York, Toronto, Washington DC, London, Beijing, and Singapore.  • Configuring, managing and maintaining Active Directory, Group Policy, Domain Controllers, DHCP, DNS in a Windows 2012 environment.  • Supervisor and project manager for IT Help Desk Team  • Management of Cisco VoIP Phone system.  • Management of backups for all ICSC offices using Veeam.  • Network and VM monitoring of endpoints, servers and network equipment using LogicMonitor.com  • AWS Management for Company Website and offsite backups.  • Updates for Windows and 3rd party software using PDQ Deploy and WSUS.  • Management of multiple Microsoft Exchange 2010 email servers in multiple locations.  • Management of Citrix XenApp Environment.  • VMWare 5.5, HP 3par and IBM 3500 SAN administration.  • Management of Palo Alto and Sophos for endpoint protection and web filtering.  • Work with MIS Director on forecasting department budget and purchasing.  • Work with Vendors, Consultants as well as Web and Applications departments on Infrastructure Projects and Purchases.  • Research and implement new technologies to improve work efficiency and customer service for all staff. IT Support Specialist - Part Time Ocean County College - Toms River, NJ November 2014 to March 2015 Supporting students and staff to resolve technical issues they may have in a tech lab environment. Provided training for students and staff when needed in Office 365, Final Cut Pro, Adobe Creative Suite. Helped document changes and upgrades to new software. IT Consultant Century 21 - Morganville, NJ December 2012 to March 2015 Morganville, NJ (12/2012-3/2015)  Troubleshoot and resolve computer and network related problems for agent and administrator computers as well as configure new users and terminals on Windows Server 2003. Setup online backup for server, copiers, printers, wifi & regular computer maintenance.  Restaurant Manager IT Consultant Solomon Schechter Day School - Marlboro, NJ October 2012 to March 2015 Setting up and repairing IT equipment. Troubleshooting and resolving computer and network related problems for computer, laptop, printer, mobile devices, VOIP phones, online backups and wireless devices. Support for smartboards, projectors and classroom technology. Setup tech lab for students using iMac computers and OSX Server. Setup iPads using apple configurator with student profiles. Installing VOIP Phones for staff. Training for administrators, staff and students on software (Word, Excel, Power Point, Outlook, iMovie, OSX, iOS7) & hardware (apple computers, apple tv, iPad, Smartboards, projectors, DSLR cameras, green screens) Office technology support (Tablets, Laptops, Desktops, Copiers and Printers) Manage school website store and content. IT Support Specialist Princeton University Library - Princeton, NJ March 2014 to December 2014 Supporting library staff to resolve technical issues using a ticketing system. Imaging and replacing staff machines, print stations, public machines and scan stations to windows 7. Configuring library software, database connections, networked printers, network drives, user permissions, remote desktop connections, VPN connections, and virtual machines for classroom and staff computers when needed. Adding new machines to the host database and troubleshooting network issues. Setting up iPads with Apple Configurator for use at different library locations. Help the systems administrator secure all network printers in all libraries. Help setup hardware monitoring for all dell computers in the library. Restaurant Manager 500 Boardwalk Inc - Seaside Heights, NJ February 2007 to April 2012 Assisted the General Manager in raising gross sales over 50% within 5 years. Prepared hour & tip reports and submitted payroll for 120+ employees. Motivated, supervised & scheduled 50+ employees. Interviewed, hired & trained employees in company policies, procedures and newly implemented programs. Maintained POS systems. Education Associates in Science Ocean County College September 2002 to May 2005 Monsignor Donovan High School September 1998 to June 2002 Skills Active Directory (4 years), Citrix (2 years), DHCP (7 years), DNS (4 years) Links http://LinkedIn.com/in/AndrewSDeFeo Additional Information Core Competencies  Network Troubleshooting ? Server Virtualization (VMWARE) ? Backup Management  Information Systems Security ? Streaming Applications with Citrix XenApp ? Budget Forecasting  IT Asset Inventory Management ? Exchange Administration ? Active Directory, DNS, DHCP  Storage Area Network Configuration & Management ? Endpoint, eMail & Web Protection with Sophos & Mimecast ? Team Management