Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Phoenix, AZ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Arizona Dept - Phoenix, AZ June 2014 to Present Maintain servers, software and support of Citrix Application servers. Route Carrier Assistant USPS - Scottsdale, AZ December 2016 to June 2017 Delivered Amazon packages on Sundays and Monday Holidays, part time only. System Administrator II Sequenom, Inc - San Diego, CA July 2013 to March 2014 • Coordinate with group for implementation of Cisco USC Servers for VMWare 5.1 ESX environment.  • Coordinate with group Architecture and installation of USC servers  • Manage 200+ virtualized development and production systems for core business projects.  • Project lead software upgrades from Server 2008 to 2012.  • Project lead for not only server software upgrades but also manage and maintains multiple core business applications.  • Provide multiple tier level resolutions escalated up from help desk.  • Manage Microsoft Active Director Infrastructure environment - support includes DNS, DHCP, GPO, LDAP customizations  • Maintain Exchange 2010 server administration support and software patching.  • Manage SQL Servers and databases. Backups, restores, upgrades and basic query analysis.  • Work closely with Compliance and Security personal to ensure user accounts, group permissions to environment meet compliance regulations.  • Work closely with business owners to ensure systems are functioning as needed, upgrades, downtime for patching.  • Provide a wide variety of networking support to environment including switches and port configurations and cabling.  • Support Cisco CM VoIP platform. Systems Administrator I Sequenom, Inc - San Diego, CA June 2012 to July 2013 • Virtualize over 40% of the corporate infrastructure from physical servers to VMware ESX 4.1 clusters  • Manage 200+ virtualized development servers for core business projects  • Standardize server builds to meet stringent regulatory and compliance requirements  • Perform routine patching of all servers and applications supporting enterprise functions  • Manage Microsoft Active Directory infrastructure for a medium sized, quickly growing enterprise - support includes DNS, DHCP, DFS, GPO, replication, LDAP customization, etc.  • Manage SQL backup routines including indexing and optimization as well as query management for reporting functions.  • Cradle to grave support of production outages - including root cause analysis, issue avoidance and potential tools to monitor and prevent future outages.  • Migrate 400+ users in support of Exchange 2003 to 2010 migration.  • Provided guidance and mentorship to Helpdesk and junior team members. Information Systems Technician II Sequenom, Inc - San Diego, CA May 2011 to June 2012 • Manage CLIA regulated laboratory hardware pc, printer, and scanner support  • Provide phone support for blackberry, Droid and iPhone enterprise use  • Provide training, materials and new hire documentation on IT policies  • Execute routine maintenance and troubleshoot PC and Laptop problems  • Provide remote support to users world wide  • Support printers, scanners, hand held devices  • Support hardware and software support in a timely manner  • Documentation of all system processes and procedures  • Build and roll out builds using sysprep and norton ghost imaging, acronis and clonezilla  • Maintain hardware inventory and software inventory on all CLIA lab and office systems PC Support Specialist Veridiam Inc - El Cajon, CA March 2010 to May 2011 • Manage 250 computer system, hardware and software support  • Provide support for server and clients in a LAN/WAN environment  • Provide Senior Desktop/Laptop Client Support for Windows 95/98/XP/2000  • Responsible for making recommendations, purchasing, and installation of all new personal computer systems and upgrades  • Evaluate PC software and determine company software standards. Train users, provide extensive break/fix support for laptops/desktops/servers/printers/scanners and related hardware. Implement and install desktop/laptop/server computer systems. Install various components and peripherals, such as: network cards, system boards, memory, modems, LAN/WAN cabling (Ethernet and Token Ring), disk drives (IDE, SCSI, EIDE, ATA), video cards, controllers. Support systems from the following vendors: HP Compaq, Dell, Apple, Toshiba, IBM and Clone systems.  • Manage user moves including exchange mailbox, person network folder, AD organizational Unit relocation through Active directory and Exchange 2003  • Responsible for mailbox creation/updating/relocating, group mailboxes, and distribution lists  Create and update network shares, adding permissions software and groups for users through Active Directory  • Manage account moves using Exchange (2003), including mailbox, personal folder, and account OU Senior Technical Support Analyst MedAire Inc - Tempe, AZ April 2006 to February 2010 • Manage roaming user profiles, policies and security settings  • Set up new staff accounts and computer security configurations  • Show positive interaction with end users to solve complex problems  • Manage in house computer cabling and troubleshoot LAN computer communication cabling issues  • Install, maintain, repair and upgrade computers  • Work in conjunction with help desk supporting 200 users locally, and remote staff. Resolve end-user service requests including but not limited to: network printer configurations, software resolution and installation, activation of network drops, and assisting developmental moves  • Support Tier levels I, II, and III  • Effectively and proactively respond to help desk tickets maintaining a 99-100% meeting monthly SLA requirements  • Utilize imaging software to create workstation images and back-up systems. Install proprietary and vended software applications. Troubleshoot and repair error messages and software conflicts.  • Manage the integrity and security of workstations and user files  • Test quality of new software deployment  • Educate and assist training on new technology and applications Education Computer Education Institute - Pomona, CA June 2003 to January 2004 Additional Information Highly motivated IT Systems Administrator striving for personal and professional growth as a key contributor to the success of a growth based company. Thrive in collaborative project based environments solving business productivity challenges and Able to effectively and efficiently troubleshoot and solve complex technical problems through adaptability, aptitude, and tenacity. I enjoy working in fast pace environments with 14 years of various IT responsibilities and promotions and room for growth. Great customer support is my ultimate goal and accomplishment.