Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Rochester, NY Work Experience Systems Administrator Harris Beach PLLC - Victor, NY March 2019 to July 2019 • I provide technical support to users across the entire organization.I follow pre-established guidelines; however, my primary job responsibilities does require the ability to exercise independent judgment. I Provide technical support to end users by phone, at desk-side, and in writing. I review, analyze, and modifiy specified hardware and software systems. I configure, install, test, and deploy systems to end users as needed to support organization. I also take care of Server and network issue and provide support. I Identifiy, recommend, and respond to equipment needs and changes. Office Service Associate Global Business Services - Rochester, NY September 2018 to March 2019 I perform related tasks requiring the use of various office equipment including copying, binding, faxing, mail, and switchboard. I identify, meet, and or exceed the requirements of all requests for services. I Also replenish cleaning supplies and office for supplies for the clients I service while demonstrating a positive attitude and up beat work ethic. Assistant Backroom Coordinator TJX Companies - Rochester, NY July 2017 to November 2017 Processing clothing, jewelry, & furniture in the backroom while maintaining a fast pace effort and great attitude. Also adding up inventory and breaking down pallets. Banquet Server Rochester Riverside Convention Center - Rochester, NY February 2017 to August 2017 Serving Breakfast, Lunch, and Dinner entrees while exibiting a wonderful and enthusiastic attitude. AppleCare Advisor Concentrix - Rochester, NY July 2015 to November 2015 Demonstrating excellent customer service over the phone, helping anyone with issues with there apple products, and also displaying a happy attitude to the customer. Cashier/Stocker Tops Friendly Markets - Rochester, NY December 2008 to July 2015 Replenishing various food products at a very fast pace while maintaining a positive attitude. Also checking out customers with excellent service while handling various amounts of money with precise adding and subtracting. Education Liberal Arts Monroe Community College - Rochester, NY 2010 to 2011 School Of The Arts - Rochester, NY 2004 to 2010 Skills System Admin, System Administrator