Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - CSID / Experian Austin, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator CSID / Experian - Austin, TX October 2014 to Present • Design, implement, administrate virtual data center environment with VMware to provide services to the software development team and QA team when I started with CSID and continued the role as the primary virtualization engineer to manage the multi-datacenter  • Designed, deployed, and administrate VMware Horizon View VDI and provide services to over 1000 client service agents located all throughout the globe. Also provide support and resolve any VDI performance issues to maintain the high uptime.  • Deployed Windows and Linux servers to DevOps team to support the software development projects. Also provided the solutions for hardware performance and efficiency during the development to shorten the project life cycle.  • Support the DevOps teams to test and deploy new applications by provisioning, deploying, configuring and maintaining MySQL server and MSSQL server in the virtual environment.  • Administrate BAU systems to support daily business operations with Okta SSO system, Thycotic Secret Server, Syncplicity File Sharing.  • Storage Deployment, Configuration and Management - iSCSI, NAS using HP Nimble storage, Dell EqualLogic and Synology  • Scan, report and mitigate the security vulnerabilities with Qualys Scan tool, and patch server OS and applications to comply with company security policies and PCI requirements.  • Manage the SSL certs to support efforts to provide uninterrupted services to the consumers and business partners.  • Analyze network traffic for network troubleshooting with tools such as Wireshark.  • Administrate and resolve issues with the company's Office365 tenants.  • Engineered and deployed Windows deployment system with MDT and streamlined the process in the early days of CSID.  • Installed and managed IT assets at the co-locations and managed service contracts with them.  • Managed IT assets and laptops for the end users, and purchased IT equipment and service contracts for the company.  • Supported users with various hardware and software issues. Network Administrator National Oilwell Varco - Cedar Park, TX September 2013 to October 2014 • HP Proliant server installs, configuration and maintenance for the datacenter collecting drilling data.  • Installed MS SQL servers, created databases according to customer specs, managed SQL access and authentication, and administered DB backup creation and scheduling for various DBs used for drilling and monitoring rig activities.  • Build and maintain Synology NAS systems for systems and database backups.  • Administrated the server virtualization infrastructure with VMware ESXi 5.5, vSphere and vCenter.  • Monitored and troubleshot VMs for optimum performance of the virtualized servers for customer data.  • Installed and administrated AV servers and clients with Tend Micro OfficeScan 10.6.  • Designed, created and administrated application virtualization using Citrix XenApp 6.5 to support internal and external customers with various application needs.  • Designed new Active Directory infrastructure, performed inter-forest migration to improve performance of various systems relying on the AD infrastructure.  • Successfully migrated over 2500 AD user accounts from the forest consisted of Windows 2003 AD infrastructure to the new forest with Windows 2008 R2 AD infrastructure.  • Created new OU structure to help manage users and computers more effectively.  • Managed AD sites, trust and schema roles to provide optimum AD system performance.  • Use scripts to create users and group in mass quantity to minimize administrative overheads.  • Provided the network team with the AD for LDAP and Radius authentication for VPN and other user authentication needs.  • Successfully managed Active Directory and Citrix XenApp migration project. Network Administrator Liquidation Channel - Austin, TX June 2012 to September 2013 • Designed the company's network infrastructure from scratch to implement network security and redundancy.  • Engineered Websense Web Security Gateway implementation to secure the company's network and set the company's web security policy.  • Supported the third party software vendor to test and implement the various proprietary business applications.  • HP ProCurve L2 and L3 switch network administration.  • Windows Server administration and maintenance. Windows 2003, 2008, and 2008 R2.  • Daily Windows server administration with Active Directory, Print Server, Group Policy, Terminal Server, and Server Clustering.  • PKI implementation and deployment through Microsoft Certification Authority (CA).  • WLAN setup and management with Cisco APs and WLAN Controller.  • Email administration with Microsoft Office365.  • Support users with various computer hardware and software issues through phone or ticketing system  • Deploy computer hardware and software to support daily business operations  • Create documents such as SOPs for the users and IT staff Helpdesk / Network Technician Samsung Austin Semiconductor - Austin, TX August 2010 to May 2012 • Provide technical support in a large corporate environment with over 1500 end users with various computers hardware, software and network issues daily.  • Lead the Windows 7 migration efforts to over 1000 end users.  • Assisted the Korean software engineers to deploy a proprietary software to the manufacturing floor to boost manufacturing productivity. Equipment Engineering Technician Samsung Austin Semiconductor - Austin, TX April 2008 to August 2010 Hired by Samsung Austin Semiconductor for my hardware experience and language skills to lead the efforts to translate and transfer the system debugging knowledge and skills to the American technicians provided by the Korean system vendors. I also lead the project to implement automation systems at the Austin factory by working closely with the robotic system vendors from Korea. Engineering Technician BreakingPoint Systems - Austin, TX February 2006 to February 2008 Recruited by BreakingPoint Systems to emulate the success I demonstrated at IntruvertNetwors and successfully helped BreakingPoint Systems to launch their network security test system to market. I also saved the company a lot of money by working, not only as an engineering technician but also as a manufacturing engineer with the experience I gained dealing with the contract manufacturers at Intruvert Networks. HW Engineer II Intruvert Networks/McAfee - Santa Clara, CA May 2001 to February 2006 Started as an engineering hardware technician as part of the launch team at Intruvert Networks to assist with the design of the network security system and was quickly promoted as the hardware engineer after demonstrating analytical and problem solving skills when I solved several design challenges around the main processor circuit and other manufacturing challenges. As the result, we accomplished faster time to market to gain advantages over the rival companies at the time. Manufacturing Hardware Debug Technician III Acuson/Simense - Mountain View, CA May 1996 to May 2001 Started as an entry level hardware debug technician but quickly gained recognition as one of the best technicians when I resolved the biggest defects on the system at the time and saved 70% of the debug inventory. Education University of Phoenix Skills Active directory (2 years), Adfs (Less than 1 year), Architecture (Less than 1 year), Chassis (Less than 1 year), Cisco (1 year), Clustering. (1 year), data center (4 years), database (1 year), Dhcp (Less than 1 year), Dns (Less than 1 year), Linux (4 years), operations (6 years), Qualys (4 years), security (10+ years), Sql (1 year), Ssl (4 years), virtualization (5 years), Vmware (5 years), Websense (1 year), Wireshark. (4 years) Additional Information Skills    IT  • Data Center Virtualization - VMware vCenter Server, VMware vSphere, ESXi, vSphere Distributed Switch, vRealize Operations, vSAN, Veeam, VirtualBox  • Desktop Virtualization - VMware Horizon View, Zero Client, UEM, Horizon Pod Architecture  • Server Hardware - HP Proliant, Dell PowerEdge, Cisco UCS Chassis and Blades, Rack Configuration, Power Consumption Analysis  • Server OS and Services- Windows, Linux, Mac OS, ESXi, Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, File Share, Print Server, ADFS, Directory Sync, IIS, SMTP, Clustering, Database, MS SQL, My SQL  • Security and Protocols - SSL Certs Renewal and Management (Entrust and GoDaddy), Firewall, Qualys Scan, OS Patching, Application Update, Server Patching, Websense, Wireshark, Penetration Testing  • Networking - OSI model, TCP/IP protocols, L2 and L3 switches, Routers, IP Subnetting, WiFi  • Other BAU Systems - Thycotic Secret Server, Syncplicity, Okta, Jira, Confluence, Office365  Language  • Korean - Native