Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Modesto, CA Work Experience Systems Administrator BIA Cordonblu - Galt, CA 2018 to 2019 Design and deploy infrastructure upgrade - both software and hardware. Support Zebra print server and Zebra printers. Oversee the operation of server systems and desktop. UCS and Nimble support. Vmware vCenter, Vmware View support, upgrade. Deploy and support WLAN and LAN operations.    •Upgrade all 2008, 2008 R2 and 2012 server to 2016 Standard.  •Rip and replace all Windows XP to Windows 10 LTSB.  •Replaced all degraded hardware with Intel NUCs to support VMWare View clients.  •Deployed offsite backups using Veeam and highspeed removable media.  •Implemented Corporate exchange to MS Office 365/Cloud platform.  •Deployed WSUS, New PPTP/IPSec services, Federated Services.  •Streamlined server operations by shrinking server inventory 40%. IT Director Doctors Hospital Manteca - Manteca, CA 2018 to 2018 Develop reliable metrics for hardware, software and storage while ensuring strategic capacity planning. Communicate clearly with administrative and health care staff. Oversee the operation of server systems and desktop. Direct and support implementation of software and hardware upgrades. Deploy and support network switches, router, WLAN and LAN operations. IT Director/Technical Operations MEDEANALYTICS - Emeryville, CA 2008 to 2017 Plan, organize and execute all IT operations in a heterogeneous Windows/Linux/MacOS environment. Develop and evaluate staff and coordinate and closely monitor activities. Purchase, install and maintain all department equipment. Provide strategic planning, budgeting, forecasting, auditing, data analysis, generate reports, etc. Manage all networking (LAN/WAN/Wireless as well as key Network Security Solutions - Firewalls, NIDS, and WIDS), software engineering, computer programming, sales and client services for the healthcare and other industries - physicians, Kaiser, Health Net, Dignity Health, Sutter, Dell, etc. Provide hands-on support and maintenance. Manage existing applications and develop new customized technical solutions to meet or exceed customer needs, assuring account retention and increased revenue. Ensure safety, confidentiality and comply with all company and agency regulations. (Received numerous top performance awards and commendations.) Accomplishments include:    •Increased data centers from 1 to 3 in one year.  •Opened, moved, and expanded offices as well as integrated a company acquisition.  •Facilitated the acquisition of the UK data center.  •Upgraded network from 1 GB to 320 GB.  •Added fortified firewall router and secured switching.  •Implemented Corporate IT exchange to MS Office 365/Cloud platform.  •Worked closely with InfoSec on successful SOC1/SOC2 Type 2 Attestation and ISO 27001 Certification Technical Architect / IT Manager MAGMA DESIGN AUTOMATION - San Jose, CA 2007 to 2008 Administered all corporate network infrastructure. Programed and installed various systems and software - Cisco Switches, Solaris, Linux, MS OS, etc. Created UID on NIS domains. Set up and deployed Riverbed. Approved billing to assure accuracy. Implemented procedures and resolved all problems. Technical Architect SBC - San Ramon, CA 2004 to 2006 Developed, tested, configured and installed a wide range of software, hardware and applications utilizing various skillsets - Wily Introscope, AIX, Solaris, Linux, PHP, wrote methodologies, etc. Closely monitored activities to assure optimal performance. IS Engineer III / System Administrator / IT Manager NETMANAGE, INC - Cupertino, CA 2000 to 2004 Coordinated and managed all department operations, plus worked closely with remote sites in Canada, Europe and Israel. Trained and supervised over 20 employees. Developed and implemented application procedures. Successfully conducted migration systems updates, measured performance utilizing SUS, etc. Quickly identify and resolve problems to ensure efficient operations. System Administrator IBM - San Jose, CA 1998 to 2000 Worked with global services team on-site at Kaiser Hospital in Oakland. Facilitated the design and creation of a new 1,500 computer data center, assuring accurate file transfers, systems performance and application changes. Linked all Northern California sites to broadband. Monitored and provided troubleshooting and maintenance to assure optimal performance. Skills HIPAA, ITIL, NETWORKING, COBIT, INFORMATION SECURITY, DATA MANAGEMENT, SECURITY, BUDGETING, OPERATIONS, OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT, STRATEGIC PLANNING, AUDITING, ARCHITECTURE, GOVERNANCE Additional Information Adept in all areas of IT management and administration. I create and deploy technology solutions, train and supervise technicians, and closely monitor activities to assure efficient operations. With a wide range of systems and software applications, expertise includes networking, engineering and programming, among others. I am extremely focused, I gather and analyze data, provide troubleshooting/maintenance, and create procedures to ensure optimal performance and cost savings. As a team player, I support and mentor others to assure a successful working environment.    PROFESSIONAL SKILLS  •IT/Operations Management •Strategic Planning / Budgeting •Networking / Programming  •Personnel Development •Creative Business Solutions •Domain / Website Creations  •Performance Evaluations •Auditing / Data Management •Develop Policies/Procedures  •Infrastructure Architecture •IT Governance (ITIL/COBIT) •Information Security  •HIPAA/HITECH Compliance