Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Technical Support Consultant Monterey, CA COMPUTER TECHNICIAN, 15+ Years experience  SALES; INHOUSE, INHOME, TELEMARKETING, 5 Years experience  CUSTOMER SERVICE, 5 Years experience  OTHER 5 Years experience Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator AdTech-IT - Modesto, CA June 2018 to June 2019 Managed IT services and solutions. Including monitoring, troubleshooting, administration of servers and workstations for 200+ company clients.   I worked remotely to respond to all kinds of issues. Including; monitoring of systems, PBX systems, domains, websites, backups. Almost every aspect of I.T. services. Technical Support Tier II Petz Enterprises - Tracy, CA September 2016 to April 2017 Technical support Tier 3 for a tax preparers software company. Involved assisting tax preparers with configuring, training, troubleshooting, support phone calls emails, remote login, Database administration, CRM system for tracking issues, updating verification and many other support tools for their e-file software. It was a contract for the tax season only. Was a very busy tax season and successfuly resolved all issues encountered. Manager Lead Technician uBreak iPhix - Monterey, CA May 2014 to September 2015 I helped to manage and maintain the shop, inventory, training new employees, as well as repairing mostly iDevices including iPhones, iPads, iPads as well as other Cell Phone brands. We always had the iParts in inventory and off brands we would order the parts needed.   Also, we serviced any and all Computer related issues. Hardware, software, viruses, optimizing performance Etc...   We had a very successful start and were able to open a Second shop with in a year.   Someone breaks a phone somewhere every few seconds. Technical Support Consultant Capital Insurance Group December 2013 to April 2014 Responsibilities: Even though I was only at CIG for a few months, I managed to solve many problems that no one else could resolve. In my first two days on board I resolved an issue they had for over One month, with the Auto Quoting Online system. The problem I discovered affected Windows 7 64Bit users only and I found it was an update to .NET 4.1 that caused the site to error. After a little research II wrote a script that good be run on 64Bit users to allow the agents access to our AQS system again. I enjoyed my time there and helped many many users as well. Mainly general technical support for Software, Hardware and Sharepoint / Web portal users. Information Technology Associate Housing Authority January 2012 to January 2014 Responsibilities: Technical Support for in-office and off site employees, Hardware and software support for all 100+ employees, Maintaining, supporting and updating all workstations and servers, CRM software, Multiple Web site updates, maintenance and functionality, SQL Database Management and reporting with Crystal Reports pre-made and Customizing reports, Security updates and patches, Network management, Active Directory Administrator, Exchange Server Administration. Linux/Unix Admin. All MS Office Suite Software and All Adobe Suite Software. Setup 50 new workstations. System Administrator Pinnacle Payroll Solutions April 2009 to April 2011 Responsibilities: Systems administrator for in-office employees and our Payroll clients, M3/Millennium Payroll Software Administrator, Time Clock Hardware and Time Keeping Systems Programing, Training and setup, Daily Monitoring of Servers Performance, Firewall, System Backups and Logging and Reporting, Encrypting and Submitting Payroll data and reports by set deadlines, keeping track of issues and tasks using two Customer Relationship Management programs and troubleshooting. Petroleum Maintenance Technician Nicholson Petroleum Maintenance August 2008 to April 2009 Responsibilities: Certified in different Petroleum dispensers products and Point of Sale Systems for the registers. It was an interesting job; checking dispensers for leaks, testing flow rates, as well as installing and setting up new gas station locations. Instructional Technologist Monterey Peninsula College / California State University Monterey Bay August 2004 to December 2008 Full time work & Full time classes at night  Responsibilities: Administrating, creating and maintaining the campus's Open Source Online Course Management System Moodle a.k.a. Ilearn. This system is saving the campus $250k a year, because they own the server and course management system. Also responsible for; training and assisting teachers, faculty and students with Online courses. Sharepoint administrator for the new Mpc.Edu Website Re-design modernization and General Computer help around campus.    Objective: Obtaining a career in the fields of I.T. Security, Repairs, Support, or Networking. I have a broad knowledge in all areas of computer science and programming languages. I enjoy challenges and solving problems. I am a people person just as much as a computer technician and will help with anyone with any problems. Certified Circuit City Firedog PC Technician Circuit City August 2007 to August 2008 Employer: Circuit City  Length: 1 Year 02/2008 - 02/2009  Responsibilities: Computer and Laptop repairs and upgrades. Virus/Malware/Spyware removal; Data migration, Data recovery, Software/Hardware installs, Troubleshooting, Training and Setup, Tracking status and jobs using a CRM system, and Product Sales. Education Associate in Computer Science Computer Networking Monterey Peninsula College - Monterey, CA January 2004 to January 2008 Associates of Science in Computer Science Software Applications Monterey Peninsula College 2004 to 2008 Additional Information Skills: JavaScript, HTML, Dynamic HTML (DHTML), Flash, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Acrobat, Adobe PDF, Microsoft Office, Microsoft Exchange, SQL Server, Payroll Administration, System Administration, Microsoft SQL, Microsoft Server, Microsoft Exchange Server, Microsoft SharePoint Server, Active Server Pages (ASP), A+, Network +, Security + Visual C / C++, UNIX, Cisco Networking (CCNA), IT Security & Infrastructure, Computer Security, Security Testing and Auditing, Security Intrusion Detection, Firewall Management, Networks Wired/ Wireless, Security Risk Management, Network security management, Web Development, Web Performance Monitoring/Tuning, Security Policies and Procedures, Point of Sale systems, Petroleum Maintenance, Mac os x, Computer Aided Design (CAD), Computer Hardware Technician, Computer Service, Computer Troubleshooting, Computer Repair, Systems Operations, Customer Response Management (CRM).