Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Hillis-Carnes Engineering Associates Laurel, MD Work Experience Systems Administrator Hillis-Carnes Engineering Associates - Annapolis Junction, MD November 2008 to Present Responsible for the operation, maintenance, upgrade, support and administration of the company's headquarters and branch office's LAN/WAN, including servers, AP, AD, Exchange, backup and network security. Administration and maintenance of company's internal systems. Configuration and set-up of all new server systems required internally and for the company's various branch offices. Provide backup, firewall administration and overall responsibility for the companies IT infrastructure and security. Windows, Hyper-V, AD and Exchange administration, for company-wide network. Provide telephone and desktop support to internal users. Provide documentation and training to all users. Forecasting any needed improvements, budgeting for and implementing any changes. Senior IT Specialist/Network Administrator Medical Education Development Services - Laurel, MD January 2006 to November 2008 Administer Windows 2003 LAN, which includes setting up and supporting employee workstations and monitoring servers/network. Administer server applications, including creating user accounts, tracking user permissions, monitoring system performance and performing server/machine imaging including backup and recovery. Administer MS-Exchange Server, SQL Server environments including troubleshooting network problems which could involve checking user computers, network server, network cables, or network router/switch/hub to pinpoint problems. Act as consultation to other departments, specifically production, about the nature of networks and the many conditions that lie within them for development, which include product QA testing. Research, recommend and purchase new hardware and software applications as well as upgrade current resources to keep company up to date with latest technologies, including managing contractors and coordinating with outside vendors. Track all company software licenses of all software purchased and installed on network and employee computers. Handles all escalated tech support calls, including internal and external product training and documentation/knowledgebase. NOC Technical Analyst II Sprint - Reston, VA August 2000 to January 2006 Responsible for the surveillance and first tiered support of Sprint's ATM and Frame Relay networks; domestic and international. Primary responsibilities include alarm/message recognition and acknowledgement, end to end network trouble isolation, management of NOC to NOC restoration efforts and interdepartmental communication of network anomalies. Working primarily with Lucent and Marconi switches. Senior Technical Support Analyst processing inbound/outbound calls from Corporate Help Desks and IT Administrators. Developed and provided department-wide customer support training, documentation knowledgebase. Education Master of Science in Internet Strayer University Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems University of Michigan Skills DOCUMENTATION (10+ years), TRAINING (10+ years), LAN (10+ years), AP (9 years), HYPER-V (9 years), System Administrator, System Admin Additional Information Skills  Combined Experiences Hardware Operating Systems Software  Computer, Networks, WAN, LAN, System Administration, VPN, RDP, Virtualization, Hardware / Software Testing, Troubleshooting, Maintenance, Help Desk, Management, Training-Documentation, Customer Service  Apple, Dell, HP, IBM/Lenovo, Microsoft, SonicWALL, FortiClient, Packet Shaper, Cisco-Meraki, EMC-SAN, PBX/ VIOP, Smart Phones, LAN/WAN, AP, PC's, Laptop, Tablets, Printers, Copiers Scanners.    DOS, Google Android/Chrome, UNIX/Linus, MAC OS/iOS, Windows, MAC OS/iOS.    MS Office Suite / Lync, Hyper-V, SQL, Adobe, Symantec, Script Logic, Citrix-Meraki, C, C++, Oracle, Visual Basic