Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Software & web developers Washington, DC Security + CE  DOD Secret Clearance   DHS Suitability Clearance Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Department of State - Washington, DC March 2019 to Present ·        Set up accounts and Troubleshoot issues reported by users.     ·        Provide User management, roles and permissions, Google drive access.    ·        Provide overall administration of the cloud environments primarily AWS.    ·        Ensure the overall reliability and scalability of services for Googlers. Drive compliance of service infrastructure with Google policies.     ·        Manage G Suite and Google Cloud Platform within Google's corporate system and service environment.    ·        Ensure the overall reliability and scalability of services for Googlers. Drive compliance of service infrastructure with Google policies.  Application Analyst II Homeland Security (Contractor) - Washington, DC June 2018 to March 2019 • SOC 24/7 Operation    • Monitor & escalate solar wind alerts    • Monitor TVS, Remedy & netcool alerts    •Provide situational awareness of cyber incidents    • Onsite facilities checks verifying our servers integrity.    • Assist with the escalation and bridge/conference calls for maintenance activities.    • Verify system application execution to ensure mission critical applications are operating as expected.    •Collaborates with internal and external partners to facilitate cyber SA and information sharing    • Proactive monitoring of the health of the systems and data.    • Create, analyze and transmissions of critical reports providing time sensitive updates to TSA customer organizations on potential terrorist activity. Help Desk specialist II RAS Law Firm - Boca Raton, FL July 2016 to June 2018 • Active Directory Management  • Setup PC, VoIP & credential for new hire  • Network printer install & trouble shoot  • Perform onsite/remote service calls  • Software & hardware trouble shoot  • Software Upgrade & updates  • Virus/Spyware/Adware Removal  • Perform onsite/remote service calls  • Proficient with helpdesk ticketing  • Provide desktop support for 200 plus user  • Running CAT 6/5e & terminate  • Perform various other IT task I.T. Specialist Metropolitan Police Dept (contractor) - Washington, DC June 2012 to July 2016 • Program devices with putty/GUI   • Remote trouble shoot/ping each sites  • Install & focused IP Camera   • Monitoring live video/retrieve video feed  • Install/trouble shoot DVR, switch, motherboard  • Followed IP scheme for new network setup  • Maintain expenses for company card   • Provide technical training to personnel  • Run CAT 6/5e & terminate   • Maintain monthly record for parts  • Safeguard Company vehicle, laptop, phone   • Maintain monthly vehicle service record Education Bachelor's in Cyber Computer Technology Bowie State University - Bowie, MD May 2020 Associate in Computer programmer Palm Beach State College - Boca Raton, FL May 2018 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY (2 years), LAN (4 years), MS OFFICE (6 years), PROBLEM SOLVING (5 years), ORGANIZATIONAL SKILLS (3 years), Excel, Cyber Security, Information Security, It Security, Web Development (Less than 1 year), Software Development (Less than 1 year), Developers, System Admin, System Administrator Military Service Branch: U.S. Air-force Reserve Service Country: United States Rank: E-4 March 2016 to Present Job title: Vehicle Fleet Manager    Over sees the entire base vehicle fleet, that are worth up to millions of dollars, Coordinate to ensure the timely repair of assigned vehicles, monitor contract, and warranty repairs and develop long and short-range plans and programs to keep maintenance schedules on track. I oversee delayed maintenance, accident and abuse programs and keep track of vehicle historical data and records. Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ CE January 2019 to Present DOD Secret Security Clearance March 2016 to Present DHS Suitability Clearance June 2018 to Present Additional Information Skills  Knowledge of Window 7/10, Active Directory proficient, MS office proficient, LAN aptitude, Leadership, Teamwork, Problem Solving, Organizational Skills, Service-oriented,