Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Information Systems Manager Grand Rapids, MI Not just a typical IT guy. A manager with the desire to help all areas of the company contribute. 25+ of solid performance and growth in Information Services with focus on understanding every aspect of business. Provides outstanding support to both internal and external customers, domestic and international. An extremely motivated continuous improvement leader using Lean tools. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Rapid-Line, Inc. - Wyoming, MI July 2018 to Present Responsible for evaluation, selection and implementation of corporate ERP system. Worked with users to create evaluation checklists, organized vendor demonstrations, participated in negotiation of purchase. Manage project plan for implementation and training. Also backup to Network Administrator, and other tasks as assigned by the CEO. Participant on Safety Committee, Employee Engagement team, Internal Quality Auditor, and Continuous Improvement efforts. Information Systems Manager Dickinson Press Inc - Grand Rapids, MI 1999 to 2017 Work with all areas of the company in strategic planning and day-to-day operations of IS/IT related functions. Monitor and maintain software, hardware, network, telephony, security and peripherals. Review and maintain user access policies and vendor agreements. Direct reports include application developer and help desk technician.    Significant accomplishments:  • Maintained and improved key software components including ERP, shop floor data collection, press management, and production scheduling systems.  • Oversaw design and implementation of online quote request and tracking system.  • Installed and implemented Crystal Reports to consolidate enterprise reporting.  • Managed relationships with consulting organizations who provided application development and hardware configuration and repair.  • Managed web domains and security certificates.  • Led evaluation and implementation of salesforce.com  Led company on Lean implementation journey as Continuous Improvement Manager for more than two years. Initiated and Chaired Lean Steering Committee. Led several improvement events resulting in savings in labor, processes, and materials. Organized 5S events in several areas of the company. International Systems Specialist Computer Associates/Platinum Technology Inc - Oakbrook Terrace, IL 1998 to 1999 Responsible for business analysis, design, testing, implementation, and training of internal systems to support the international salesforce. International Product Specialist Platinum Technology 1996 to 1998 Acted as liaison between international offices and US corporate headquarters. Technical Support Specialist Platinum Technology 1994 to 1996 Supported the DB2 products, general utilities, and installation assistance calls. Database Administrator Steelcase Inc - Grand Rapids, MI 1992 to 1994 DB2 database administration performing logical design, physical implementation and maintenance of relational database. Senior Computer Operator Steelcase 1985 to 1992 Monitor batch processing and related telecommunications/network operations. Education Master of Business Administration in Business Administration Grand Valley State University Bachelor of Business Administration in Computer Information Systems Davenport University Bachelor of Business Administration in Management Davenport University Skills Audit (Less than 1 year), Budget (Less than 1 year), Crystal Reports (10+ years), Oracle (Less than 1 year), Security (Less than 1 year) Additional Information SKILLS Networks, Security, Telecomm, Storage, Audit, Budget, Windows, Office, Oracle, VMWare, Crystal Reports, QTMS, Globe-Tek, Salesforce.com, Global Shop, Syteline.