Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Florida Commission on Human Relations Boynton Beach, FL Experienced server administrator, remote backup, Web portal CMS development. Virtual tour 360  degree. IP Camera security and camera servers. VoIP phone PBX systems servers. Proficiency in  Windows and Mac technologies. Knowledge in Linux. Analytical and strategic skills. Ability to create,  document and implement software in Spanish and English. Strong experience in Object Oriented  Programming. Commercial software development. Creative design and special skills to work and  integrate new technologies. Quick learner and highly self-motivated. Strong ability to research and  purchase technology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Florida Commission on Human Relations - Tallahassee, FL October 2017 to Present • Maintaining the Agency's IT network, servers and application systems.  • Kaseya VSA admin.  • Action Step admin.  • SquareSpace CMS Website Dev and admin.  • Wordpress CMS Admin.  • Website ADA compliance.  • Microsoft Azure admin.  • Webroot AV deployment and Admin.  • Backup Admin and maintaining Windows-based servers in both a physical and virtual environment.  • Acronis backup admin.  • KnowBe4 anti-phishing admin.  • SharePoint Admin and dev.  • System upgrades, security patches, performance monitoring and tuning.   • Active Directory/Exchange maintenance including creation and configuration of objects and policies.   • Security & Compliance Search and investigation reports.  • Develop and maintain system documentation to track system and server administration.  • DNS, DHCP, IIS, VPN and TCP/IP.   • Office365 admin.   • Office365 Export of data and email. DB / Systems Administrator Trak Engineering, Inc - Tallahassee, FL July 2015 to November 2016 • Modify existing Visual FoxPro code to correct errors and to adjust it for particular customers requirements.  • Work with the programmers from India and Bangladesh to improve the performance of the software.   • Prepare and implement the SQL servers for new customers along with the installation of the FuelTrak Fuel Management software.  • Resolve issues with the Databases by remote connecting to their servers.  • Visual Foxpro, Visual Studio .NET, SQL 2016, IIS, Crystal Reports.   • SQL DB migration, backup and restore. IT Manager Leoni Properties Inc - Tallahassee, FL September 2011 to June 2015 • Implementation and management of VoIP PBX phone system server for 12 lines and 25 extensions.  • Troubleshoot and configure technology infrastructure in 18 properties and leasing offices (over 80 total computers+5 Servers).  • Implementation of new iMac with Parallels with Windows 7.   • Microsoft Exchange 2013 mail server implementation.   • Google business mail administrator.  • Information backup on Servers and Workstations.  • Research, install and configure Digital IP video surveillance system for 18 5-megapixel cameras including advance 360 degree technology in shopping center.  • Cable/DSL routers, Wireless access points, Switches, Cisco Switches, wire Networkking  • Install, upgrade and troubleshoot QuickBooks 2009 thru 2014.   • Established and managed close relationships with Technology vendors (Dell, CDW, NewEgg, infotel, Intuit, Microsoft, Adobe, among others). IT Director Panoramicam.com - Tallahassee, FL August 2009 to December 2013 • Virtual Tour services and Web portal development.   • Camera security systems consulting and IT services under PC IDEAL, LLC (IT division).  • Handle the company strategies to promote and market our services.  • Training and manage photographers to provide the on-site 360 degree pictures.  • Work closely with our Commercial manager on the strategies to achieve our goals and plans.  • Process and publish the Virtual Tour Web portals.  • Training and manage the installation teams   • Google business mail setup and administration. IT Specialist / IT Director Student Housing Solutions, Inc - Tallahassee, FL February 2003 to July 2009 • Manage and troubleshoot Network in 12 properties and leasing offices (over 90 total computers+7 Servers).  • E-mail server implementation and admin.  • On-site and remote Web server admin.  • Develop different strategies for information backup on Servers and Workstations.  • Successful off-site out-of-state remote backup.   • Successful migration from old server  • Research, install and configure Digital video surveillance system  • Server setup, cable/DSL router setup, Wireless access points, Switches, Cisco Switches, wire distribution and workstations setup under domain.  • Training personnel.  • Secured Electronic Door Locks programming Education Bachelor's Skills Active Directory, Vmware, System Administrator, Linux, System Admin Awards Magna Cum Laude 1998 Certifications/Licenses Certified Engineer 2013 3CX Certified Engineer Groups Association of Information Technology Professionals