Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator Colorado Springs, CO To find a company that can utilize my skills as a dedicated and focused employee. I have always strived to help further expand the growth and profitability of a company in any way that I can. I am dedicated, punctual and a team player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Techforless.com - Colorado Springs, CO January 2018 to Present System Administrator. Repair Tech Supervisor Techforless.com - Colorado Springs, CO March 2007 to January 2018 1610 Garden of the Gods Rd, Colorado Springs, CO 80907)  I am the Repair Tech Supervisor and in charge of 5 employees. Our repair department has won best repair in Co Springs last two years. We repair customer computers, laptops, tablets and phones. Our department also repairs all in store consumer electronics when our test department determines they are in need of repair. I mainly repair and diagnose all enterprise gear (servers, switches, battery backups, etc), TV's, laptops and pc's. I am also proficient in small electronics repair including, car/home audio, cell phones, mp3's, tablets, etc. Repair/Inventory Repair Tech Smartmicro.com - Colorado Springs, CO October 2005 to January 2007 Smartmicro.com (214 W Colorado Ave. Colorado Springs, CO 80903)  This was a small three person operation. We would buy and repair consumer electronics and resell them at discount prices. My main position was to inventory new product, then determine what was cost effective to repair and salvage the rest. I would then repair all product including TV's, PC's, laptops, servers and other small electronics. With it being so small I also would take sales and customer service calls. Would help ship and package product. Consolidated and maintained inventory in warehouse. I was also in charge of the smartmicro.com eBay store that sold over 1000 products with a 99.9% positive feedback.  Reason for leaving: I helped owner move entire warehouse in hopes of a new vendor and product. After I helped him move he ended up losing his contract for product and shut the company down. Assistant Manager I Diamond Shamrock Truck Stop - Colorado Springs, CO May 2002 to July 2005 Diamond Shamrock Truck Stop (1310 W Baptist Rd, Colorado Springs, CO 80921)  First was in charge of running register, cashing com running Comchecks, night stocking, cleaning and maintaining store. After 6 months I moved too Assistant Manager in training which out Manager was fired. Me and the other Assistant Manager where now in charge of the entire store. As Assistant Manager I was in charge of closing the store down, daily paper work, counting drawers of all employees daily, making money safe drops, ordering of new product, inventorying, weekly employee schedules, hiring of new employees. Was in charge of over 16 store employees.  Reason for leaving: Had plans on moving out of state which fell through. I decided to get my job back and they had hired a new manager and asked me too run a store in Wyoming which I did not want to do. They didn't like my answer and we went our separate ways. Education GED Aspen Valley Skills Computer Hardware (10+ years), Computer Repair (10+ years), System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory, Linux, Vmware Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/acu4mqk07ltekaw0 Technical Support — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jt4nigzygvolwtnt Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills  • System Admin and networking  • Basic home electrical (good with multi meter, basic wiring, hard wired battery backups to 120-240v.  • Proficient in PC and Laptop Computer Diagnostics and Repair (10+ years)  • Proficient in TV Diagnostics and Repair (LCD, LED and Plasma)(8+years)  • Proficient in small electronics repair (car/home audio, mp3's, cameras, cell phones, ect..)  • Proficient in all Windows Operating Systems and software (word, excel, outlook, power point)  • Basic Printer and Repair and Maintenance  • Proficient in Auto Repair (10+ years)  • Money handling and counting skills  • Warehouse inventory and consolidation skills