Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Vectrus Charlotte, NC Work Experience Systems Administrator Vectrus July 2019 to Present Responsible for managing users and devices such as computers, printers, and scanners on NIPr, SIPr/Rel, and CXi networks.  ? Troubleshoots software and hardware failures to correct any issues that may occur  ? Create, issue, and maintain new user accounts and access.  ? Operates and maintains all aspects of server administration to include but is not limited to Microsoft 200X Active Directory, WINS, DNS, DHCP, print queues etc.  ? Whitelist and Blacklist and MAB machines for 802.1x security and network authentication.  ? Utilizes remedy ticketing system and active directory with opening/closing accounts as well as adding new devices on the network. ADPE Technician Vectrus March 2018 to June 2019 Provide laptop and desktop support and professional customer service to military and civilian customers.  ? Analyze, troubleshoot and resolves system hardware, software, and networking issues at the desktop level.  ? Install, configure, and upgrade computer hardware and software.  ? Performs system backups and recovery.  ? Join client computers to a Microsoft Active Directory Domain and Organizational Unit.  ? Provides telephone customer support for incoming and follow up calls used for initial troubleshooting.  ? Document, track, resolve, and report on problems and work orders using Remedy Action Request database system.  ? Assisted with the facilitation of a domain migration by inputting PowerShell commands to migrate batches from one domain to the next. Operations Specialist/Lead Louis Berger December 2015 to December 2017 Plans, markets, schedules and coordinates events and base programs.  ? Provides Administrative support as well as submission of daily, weekly, and monthly reports, which include financial and analytical data research to report facility usage and effectiveness of program implementation.  ? Daily administration of Exchange 2010 and Outlook Web Access.  ? Performed Operational Analysis to better maintain Quality Control and Quality Assurance to ensure company standards and USAF expectations were being fulfilled.  ? Aid in the implementation of daily task in programs to ensure quality customer service and an exemplary atmosphere. Transportation Security Officer U.S. Department of Homeland Security - Charlotte, NC March 2015 to December 2015 Implemented security screening procedures that are central to Transportation Security Administration (TSA) objectives.  ? Conducted screening of passengers, baggage and cargo, via usage of x-ray and other security detection equipment to prevent any potential terminal or flight threats.  ? Communicated affectively with management and other necessary personnel, providing input, pertaining to techniques to strengthen the screening areas and reduce risk of possible threats. Package Handler FedEx Express - Charlotte, NC November 2014 to November 2015 Loaded and unloaded packages by hand, to include placing, pushing, lifting, carrying and pulling items in an efficient and safe manner.  ? Sort documents and letters to assure timely and efficient delivery.  ? Ensure all appropriate packages are in place and ready for delivery and not left behind in the station and or trucks.  ? Scan and confirm all packages left behind to ensure they are accounted for within the facility.  ? Tag incoming items and place in correct stage locations for precise delivery. Logistics Coordinator Al Udeid Air Base - Doha, QA June 2014 to September 2014 Conducted inventory audits at 29 installation locations with hundreds of WRM assets on a daily basis valued over eight million USD.  ? Update records of materials in inventory and on order; and update information on the system to maintain accountability via excel.  ? Monitored incoming and outgoing supplies through inspection, quality control, segregation, and cross-referencing of bills of lading, contracts, and other documentation. Event Program Manager & MWR Specialist Transit Center at Manas - Bishkek, KG May 2013 to May 2014 Managed events of 4 facilities, and maintained Government Property.  ? Accountable for scheduling and coordinating all special base-wide events.  ? Communicated effectively with base commander and other distinguished military personnel for event approval and calendar updates for their scheduled meetings, trainings, and events.  ? Performed and completed monthly inventory and finance reports.  ? Edited and manipulated audio and video projection as needed per event.  ? Assisted with travel arrangements and escorting procedures for USO tour acts and employees demobilizing. Administrative Assistant Firm Foundations/LHGA Inc - Fayetteville, NC August 2007 to March 2013 Distributed proper documentation to clients according to their need, completed documents, scheduled follow-up visits, external appointments and testing for clients per treatment team orders.  ? Maintained virus / security requirements as needed for office computers.  ? Maintained network and system security.  ? Print Server Management and monitoring.  ? Composed email correspondence as needed for external vendors, purchase orders, parts, and other material.  ? Scheduled meetings for social services representative visits, compiled reports, briefed reports to area services manager with recommendations.  ? Maintained a secure area for clients files especially those that contain PII (Personal Identifying Information). Education Associate in Office Systems Technology Lenoir Community College - Kinston, NC May 2012 Skills Windows, Technical Support, Active Directory, Microsoft Office (10+ years), Remedy Ticketing System (2 years), Desktop Support (2 years), Windows Server (1 year), Troubleshooting (3 years), Powershell (1 year)