Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Technician Honolulu, HI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Booz Allen Hamilton - Honolulu, HI June 2017 to Present • Analyzes, logs, tracks and resolves software/hardware matters of significance pertaining to networking connectivity issues, printer, servers, and applications to meet TSD Hawaii training needs.  • Performs troubleshooting to isolate and diagnose common system problems; documents system events to ensure continuous systems functioning.  • Upgrades system software and hardware components as required and ensures upgrades within DISA guidelines.  • Coordinates the installation of TSD Hawaii specific applications and systems. Determines appropriate method for installing applications and systems; resolves matters of significance and implements corrective course of action.  • Installs, tests, upgrades and configures system files and services to enhance performance.  • Utilizes standard Navy tools to document change and problem activities for tracking purposes. Help Desk Specialist Genesis Business Systems - Honolulu, HI March 2017 to June 2017 • Performed tasks as NMCI POC. Responsibilities include coordinating the following tasking for USPACOM, Camp Smith.  • Filled MAC request requirements, planning and coordination of technical refreshes, NAVAIR and local NMCI ordering and billing or data calls, phone services with NMCI, S Drive Administration, SharePoint data base input, performing infrastructure upgrades and maintenance, assisting users in resolving issues, hardware installation, printer set-up, and developed and implemented long term strategic plan for NMCI requirements.  • Developed and maintain software configuration management tools to support configuration identification, control, reporting, and delivery of both internally developed software and externally purchased commercial-off-the-shelf software products.  • Performed configuration management and release engineering tasks to ensure new software product operating parameters are documented, comply with standard hardware configurations, and are logistically sustainable.  • Designed and implemented build procedures that are used to support software product development and use.  • Trained software developers in the use of configuration management tools and the implementation of software quality standards. Deployment Technician TEKsystems/ Kaiser Permanente - Honolulu, HI June 2016 to November 2016 * Set up and configured desktops for the Maui Memorial project  * Attached all peripherals to power and network to ensure connection.  * Provided quality assurance check. Network Engineer Resurgo LLC - Honolulu, HI July 2015 to January 2016 * Set up systems and network equipment and services for U.S. Navy.  * Monitor network traffic for malicious activity.  * Perform routine system and network maintenance for various Navy customers.  * Install and maintain Microsoft servers (2008, 2012), Cisco Router, and Switches.  * Monitored and logged network traffic alerts or conditions to be addressed and reported to Network Analysts.  * Documented standard operating procedures, weekly report data, and network diagrams. IT Support Technician Waikiki Health - Honolulu, HI December 2014 to July 2015 * Provide tech support via phone, the Internet, or in person.  * Regularly provided efficient technical support over the phone, maintaining presentable phone demeanor, courteousness, and creativity.  * Diagnose software/hardware problems, responding quickly, clearly, and resourcefully.  * Accurately document all technical support and customer's help-desk interaction.  * Prepare reports of activity and stayed up to date regarding system information Microwave Field Technician Mastec Network Solutions - Honolulu, HI October 2012 to November 2014 * Installed, maintained, and trouble shot unlicensed Microwave (M/W) radio system networks.  * Alcatel/Lucent licensed OEM certified.  * Effectively communicate with customers for effective M/W installation and troubleshooting.  * Used information systems skills including LAN networking, routers, switches, and electrical.  * Installed M/W communication systems, multiplexing equipment, DC power systems, and associated cabling.  * Migrated customer traffic for newly installed M/W systems.  * Diagnosed path alignment problems and trouble M/W systems to the card level.  * Conducted site audits for future installations.  * Troubleshoot Microwave systems and circuit problems for both microwave and network related errors.  * Test microwave systems for efficient field deployment.  * Operate test equipment including power meters, oscilloscope, and multi-meters for quality testing and error diagnosis.  * Troubleshoot and diagnose microwave systems and circuit problems for both microwave and network related errors to the component level. Supervisor, Technician United States Navy 2007 to 2012 Supervised and trained avionics technicians on Consolidated Automated Support System (CASS) operations and maintenance, electronic system repair, and general military training.  * Administered as inspector for quality assurance to sustain Navy's procedural compliance for maintenance procedures, systems reliability, and personnel safety.  * Managed classified documents and assets in compliance with Navy security policies, standards, and procedures, maintaining U.S. Government Secret Clearance.  * Documented departmental maintenance and inventories of avionics components and supplies.  * Led nine technicians in repair of 428 AN/APG-65 and 73 RADAR system components, directly contributing to a 76% reduction on the work center backlog.  * Managerial ability, personal initiative, and unswerving devotion to duty in keeping with highest traditions of U.S. Navy.  * Maintained quarterly updates for technical library, schematics, and block diagrams, resulting in zero quality assurance audit discrepancies. Supervisor, Technician United States Navy 2003 to 2012 Aviation Technician United States Navy 2004 to 2007 Strike Fighter Wing Pacific  * Tested, diagnosed, and repaired avionic components, supporting 16 F/A-18 aircraft squadrons and five aircraft carriers, using CASS test bench.  * Conducted on-the-job training of new personnel in troubleshooting and repair of electronic components.  * Consistently sought out to troubleshoot and repair most complex discrepancies.  * Operated and maintained CASS test benches for Navy avionics and electronics systems testing and maintenance.  * Removed and replaced faulty system components, including circuit boards, filters, servos, gyros, wave guides, cables, wiring, resistors, diodes, and capacitors.  * Employed latest test equipment and procedures to repair systems, such as communications, navigation, infrared detection, radar, laser, electronics, fiber-optics, digital computers, field change installations, alterations, and modifications to avionics systems.  * Repaired some of the most advanced electronics systems in the world, ranging from flight deck troubleshooting of the electronic weapons system on an F/A-18 Hornet aircraft to changing computer circuit cards in an air-conditioned shop.  * Leveraged computer training to support this state-of-the-art equipment.  * Utilized electrical system diagrams to repair the most complex electrical system failures. Project Lead First National Imaging 2001 to 2003 * Designed, analyzed, and maintained information system solutions for effective document imaging.  * Installed, troubleshot, and maintained various network systems for local and remote projects.  * Coordinated vendor relations with implementation, operations, updates, and maintenance.  * Provided desktop support and technical assistance to company personnel and customers.  * Planned and managed a variety of document imaging projects, ensuring timely completion of projects, allocation of resources, supervision, time estimates, and interfacing with internal departments and external customers.  * Scripted imaging processes controls and documenting programs. Education Information Systems Security Colorado Technical University - Colorado Springs, CO 2010 A.S. in Computer Programming and Networking Vatterott College - Des Moines, IA 2001 B.S. in Exercise and Sport Science Iowa State University - Ames, IA 1998 Skills System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory Military Service Branch: Navy Service Country: United States Rank: E-5 August 2003 to September 2012 Certifications/Licenses ITIL v3 Present A+ Certified April 2017 to April 2020 Security+ April 2017 to April 2020 Secret Security Clearance October 2017 to October 2027 Additional Information Technical Summary  * System Administration - Microsoft Server 2008 & 2012, Cisco  * Operating Systems - Windows (7,8, & 10), Linux (Red Hat & Ubuntu), Mac OS X  * Other Applications - MS SharePoint, MS Project Server, MS Office, DB2, ORACLE, MS-Office Suite, FTP  * SIEM - ArcSight, Jumpstart, Noesis, Wireshark  * Programming Languages - Java, JavaScript, HTML, Visual Basic    Security Clearance  * Secret with open SSBI investigation