Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator North Babylon, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Advanced Acoustic Concepts - Hauppauge, NY May 2017 to June 2019 Administered, hardened, and maintained Windows and Redhat Linux systems in an air-gapped  secure lab environment as the Information Systems Security Officer, achieving the site a Superior rating in security and the Cogswell Award in 2019.  ? Audited systems using Event Viewer and scripts to verify system integrity.  ? Set up and monitored user accounts and maintained group permissions through Active  Directory.  ? Hardened systems using SCAP Compliance Checker and STIG Viewer to ensure physical  and virtual environments met security standards and best practices.  ? Maintained relevant security settings in the Windows Registry and Group Policy.  ? Provided tier 2 and tier 3 technical support for users and customers.  ? Created and improved scripts to automate tasks using perl, python, bash, and Powershell.  ? Managed virtualized environments  ? Experience with all aspects of Hyper V including creating and backing up virtual  machines and configuring virtual networks.  ? Experience with setting up, modifying, and monitoring virtual machines using VirtualBox  and KVM.  ? Worked on the DevOps team to test and deploy Operating System images with patches and required software to expedite deployment and maintain security for corporate and project  assets.  ? Created hardened Windows 10 and Windows Server 2016 images using Microsoft  Deployment Toolkit, including driver injection, pre-installing software, and improving  system security.  ? Created updated Windows 7 images using NTLite.  ? Tested environment modifications for any errors using VirtualBox and Hyper V, then on destination hardware.  ? Trained users on new security policies and procedures.  ? Set up server hardware  ? Installed new and additional parts including CPUs, memory, and optical media drives.  ? Advised managers on best practices on IT and IT security.  ? Communicated ideas and finding details to many different teams.  ? Wrote documentation and procedures for IT and IT security projects as needed. Network Engineer Intern mindSHIFT - New York, NY June 2016 to August 2016 Worked with a team of network engineers to set up, manage, and maintain networks for several  charter schools.  ? Set up user accounts on Windows and Mac systems  ? Performed troubleshooting on modern networks including TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, VLANs, switches, routers and wireless devices  ? Configured and performed troubleshooting on printers, Voice-over-IP (VoIP) phones, Chrome OS  devices, Windows 7 workstations, and macOS X devices  ? Documented and reported relevant information and errors to clients and management. Education Bachelor of Science degree in Information Systems Stony Brook University - Stony Brook, NY August 2013 to December 2016 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Dhcp, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vmware (1 year), Jenkins (2 years), Scripting (3 years), Svn (2 years), Deployment (2 years), Java (1 year), Sql (Less than 1 year), Linux Administrator (2 years), Linux (2 years), Redhat (2 years), System Admin (2 years), System Administrator (2 years), Microsoft Deployment Tooklit (2 years), DNS (1 year), Linux KVM (2 years), Virtualization (3 years), Hyper-V (2 years), VirtualBox (2 years), IT Security (2 years), Red Hat (2 years), Devops (2 years) Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/1xuoyoqa5gtbg12l Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient June 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/b3kawcalwyj-ofak Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/sqtt585tbpku0qiq Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.