Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator/IT Specialist - The Libman Company Arcola, IL Current System Administrator with more than 20 years in the IT Industry looking to relocate. I am continuing my education and in the process of earning a Bachelors of Science in Cyber Security and Information Assurance. Work Experience Systems Administrator The Libman Company - Arcola, IL June 2015 to Present VMWare-Working in Vsphere web client setting up hosts, VMs, moving from physical servers to virtual servers, adding and adjusting storage needs, etc.  Creating a print server, setting up printers, creating printer groups in Active Directory and adding the users to the required groups.  Creating group policies  Active Directory setting up computers, users and their access level.  Citrix XenApp- Adding applications, users and to troubleshoot any issues that arise.  Outlook 2010/2016/Exchange server-adding/removing mailboxes and adjusting users access to mailboxes.  Security-Monitor emails that have been blocked by Watchguard firewall or antivirus. Reviewing attachments that have been locked by antivirus or firewall. Sending out Security emails to employees with information of new phishing scams, ransomware, etc.   Setting up Phishing campaigns through a program call KnowBe4. Creating educational training off of those campaigns.  Shoretel phone system-setting up/removing users and phones.  Configuring and installing network switches including manufacturing switches.   Setting up network cabinets, running network cables and punching them down on patch panels, installing fiber modules in switches and connecting fiber cables.  Configuring, reimaging, and installing computer equipment and adding them to the domain.  Setting up wireless access points, adding/removing wireless accounts through Ringmaster. Updated wireless to Aruba Networks. Set up access points and adding wireless accounts through Aruba software.  Computer repair and replacement.  Troubleshoot copiers and printers including label printers.  Work with contractors for placement of speakers for paging system, placement of conduit, network cabinets, etc. Field Technician Heartland Dental - Effingham, IL June 2013 to June 2015 Installing computer equipment  Working on ESXI Servers through VSphere  Install and setup of multiple networks on a domain  Adding new computers, users and setting permissions in Active Directory  Computer repair and replacement.  Copy and transfer of data to new server and workstations Hardware Support Specialist Patterson Technology Center - Effingham, IL April 2010 to June 2013 Troubleshooting with customers and TST's regarding hardware issues, Windows issues, and networking issues over the phone and through Webex.  Testing New Equipment and New Windows Operating Systems for compatibility with Eaglesoft. Computer Technician Goetze Dental - Maryland Heights, MO October 2007 to March 2010 Installed computer equipment  Installed digital equipment: Gendex, Planmeca, Sirona, Instrumentarium, Kodak, Air Techniques, Dexis, Etc.  Setup and maintained networks, workgroups and domains  Installed and maintained Dental Software: Dentrix, Eaglesoft, Dexis, SoftDent, XLDent, Easy Dental, Etc.  Trained office staff: the software and equipment Technical Service Technician Patterson Dental - Marietta, GA August 2004 to September 2007 Installed computer equipment  Installed digital equipment-Schick, Gendex, Planmeca, Sirona, Air Techniques, Etc.  Setup and maintained networks: workgroups and domains  Installed and maintained Dental Software: Eaglesoft  Trained office staff: the software and equipment Support Specialist Patterson Dental/Technology Center - Effingham, IL May 2003 to August 2004 Eaglesoft Support: Troubleshooting with customers over the phone with Eaglesoft issues  Hardware Support: Troubleshooting with customers and TST's over the phone with hardware issues.  Digital Support: Troubleshooting Digital x-ray issues over the phone with customers and TST's. Education Bachelor of Science in Cybersecurity Western Governors University 2018 to Present Computer Science Parkland College - Champaign, IL 1994 to 1995 MacMurray College - Jacksonville, IL 1992 to 1993 Skills Android (5 years), iOS (10+ years), Mac (5 years), Mac OS (5 years), MS Office (8 years), network administration (10+ years), networking (10+ years), training (1 year), Linux (1 year), System Administrator (5 years), Active Directory (10+ years), Vmware (5 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License CompTIA A+ 2002 to Present CompTIA A+ February 2019 to February 2022 Network+ May 2019 to May 2022 CIW Site Development Associate December 2018 ITIL Foundation November 2018