Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Life Time Saint Louis Park, MN Work Experience Systems Administrator Life Time June 2019 to Present Provide hands-on, walk-up, desk-side and remote service technical support to employees at Life Time's  Corporate and Remote Offices.  • Act as a resource for advanced or difficult request or technical issues involving software and or hardware.  • Address user tickets through Service-now regarding software applications, hardware (computers, printers  and scanners), operating systems, peripherals and networking.  • Manage and prioritize end user requests as well as communicate with them regarding support efforts.  • Complete administrative tasks in support of Life Time's request management processes (access requests, hardware and software requests.)  • Train and delegate tasks to new team members based on their strengths and experience.  • Image and configure new systems, repair or restore damaged systems, coordinate on-site service for repair  of defective hardware, decommission retired hardware systems.  • Research solutions through documentation on tickets as well as internal or external knowledgebase.  • Test fixes to ensure the problem has been resolved and/or follow-up with end users to ensure their  systems are functional.  • Provide assistance within corporate conference meeting rooms and collaboration technologies to ensure  the meeting run smoothly.  • Record and document all steps taken throughout the resolution of the technical issue.  • Monitor inventory levels and recommend replenishment and disposal when necessary.  • Troubleshoot technical problems with Local Area Networks (LAN) and Wide Area Networks (WAN).  • Actively collaborate with team members creating new knowledge base articles and updating existing  ones.  • Build rapport and communicate effectively with end users including managers, directors, and other team  members to ensure smooth resolutions to technical needs and issues. Systems Administrator Infinity Consulting Solutions October 2018 to June 2019 Consistent with the above responsibilities. Systems Administrator Hexaware Technologies February 2017 to October 2018 Consistent with the above responsibilities. Corporate IT Support III Life Time Fitness September 2015 to February 2017 Consistent with the above responsibilities. Service Desk Agent Life Time Fitness 2014 to 2015 Consistent with the above responsibilities. Computer Lab Tutor Minneapolis Community & Technical College 2012 to 2012 Student Technical Support Volunteer Minneapolis Community & Technical College 2012 to 2012 Supervisor Pinnacle Financial Services 2005 to 2011 Education Associate in Software Development Minneapolis Community and Technical College - Minneapolis, MN 2011 to 2012 University of St. Thomas 2011 A.A. degree in Liberal Arts Minneapolis Community & Technical College 2010 Skills Servicenow (6 years), System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory, System Admin Certifications/Licenses A valid IT Specialist certification