Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Concordia College Patterson, NY Very motivated veteran seeking a position where I can use my military work experience and skills. Work Experience Systems Administrator Concordia College - Bronxville, NY March 2016 to Present Manage VMware virtual environment which includes over 60 virtual servers consisting of Windows Server 2008-2016 machines, ensuring smooth, day to day operations for all faculty, staff and student users ? Assist Help Desk with daily activities such as password resets ? Complete customer tickets and log activities via TrackIt! ticketing software ? Responsible for successful completion of daily, weekly and monthly backups in the backup server to ensure recovery in case of potential disasters ? Maintain, monitor, and backup Active Directory databases consisting of over 4,000 users and objects via AD  Manager and AD Recovery Manager ? Administer file server which guarantees 24/7 access to all files and documentation - includes deleting and recover operations of files and folders ? Responsible for creating new user accounts for faculty, staff, and students including all related file access permissions for each group ? Monitor entire environment via tools such as SolarWinds Orion platform and ipMonitor ? Manage and troubleshoot Office 365 email environment including e-mail and Microsoft Office 2013 and 2016 application suite ? Administer B.A.S.I.S software which manages badge and door accesses throughout the campus ? Responsible for processing food allowances via BlackBoard Transact and printing quotas via Equitrac for hundreds of students each semester ? Executed several major projects such as Cisco Unified Messaging implementation, XenApp/ Citrix setup and switchover, Rubrik backup solution and S2/ SMS security. Office Systems Associate Konica Minolta Business Solutions - Tarrytown, NY July 2014 to March 2016 Installs home and office solutions, i.e. copiers, fax machines, printers ? Connect MFP's to customer network by configuring network information ? Backup and transfer customer data from old MFP to new MFP installation ? Trains team members on connectivity methods and backup applications such as PageScope Data Admin ? Troubleshoots customer calls ? Manages local parts inventory ? Assists team members to complete service call Systems Engineer Wilmac Workforce Optimization - Rochester, NY August 2013 to June 2014 Installed telecommunications solutions such as Cisco and Redbox ? Assisted customers via telephone and remote desktop connections ? Traveled throughout eastern US onsite to customer locations for installation and troubleshooting of telecoms systems Information Systems Technician United States Navy December 2007 to June 2013 Responsible for the administration, management, and troubleshooting of USS George Washington's Common  PC Operating System Environment (COMPOSE).  ? Regulated ship's VMWare environment, to include configuration changes and updates to system and mission requirements.  ? Maintained, monitored, and backed up ship's Active Directory databases.  ? Primary system administrator for BlackBerry Enterprise Server (BES), in support of 33 VIP's.  ? Managed ship's virtual Microsoft Exchange e-mail servers, in support of over 6,000 users.  ? Implemented virtual server upgrades and patches that led to increased network applications for end-users.  ? Monitored and responded to hardware and software problems utilizing hardware and software testing tools and techniques.  ? Ensured successful server backups for 31 unclassified, and 9 classified servers, resulting in protection against possible data loss and information spillage, and 100% restoration of servers and services in case of disasters.  ? Managed ship's help desk ticketing system and its team in support of issues relating to system software and hardware.  ? Proficient in Windows 2003 Server, Windows XP, Windows 7 and Active Directory.  Petty Officer Second Class ? Managed a team of 16 sailors in daily shop activities ? Conducted daily training in sailor decorum, Naval history, and ship safety precautions ? Mentored junior sailors and met monthly to create goal plans Education BS in Information Technology Monroe College - Bronx, NY April 2019 Skills System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory, System Admin, Office 365, Windows Server 2003, Windows Server 2008, Windows Server, Account Management, Copy Machine, Servers, Desktop Support, Help Desk Support, Windows 7, Security, Citrix, VDI, Backups, Rubrik, Monitoring Military Service Branch: Navy Service Country: United States Rank: Petty Office Second Class December 2007 to June 2013