Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - DEI Oxon Hill, MD Work Experience Systems Administrator DEI - Crystal City, VA April 2018 to Present Defense Threat Reduction Agency  • Provide Level 2 to 3 support for various services as a member of the desktop break-fix team.  • Responsible for providing maintenance of computing devices, associated peripherals, and approved software.  • Install and maintain hardware and software on those devices and associated peripherals.  • Install all upgrades (memory, hard drives, etc.) and peripheral devices.  • Provide the appropriate office support to coordinate and schedule new equipment installations.  • Monitor and update services to ensure that all Service Level Agreements (SLAs) are met and make updates to asset records.  • Responsible for the on-site installation of new devices.  • Assist in coordinating, scheduling and performing relocations and re-installations of equipment upon approval.  • Perform periodic physical audits of end user computing devices to compare with records (deployment location, storage location, and assignee information).  • Has Intermediate understanding of:  ? iOS based mobile devices  ? McAfee suite of security products including full disk encryption (i.e. McAfee MDE)  ? Hardware support experience (i.e. swapping hard drive, fan, motherboard)  ? Troubleshooting HP and Apple systems  ? Intermediate understanding of maintaining/troubleshooting VoIP devices (i.e. Cisco Call Manager/Unity)  ? Intermediate understanding of supporting/ troubleshooting Windows 7, Windows 10, MacOS, MS Office, VPN, network connectivity issues Military Police Officer Army National Guard - Catonsville, MD October 2012 to Present October 2012 to Present  Military Police  • Responsible for leading the Soldiers that protect lives and property on Army  • Installations. Supervise the execution of the five military police Battlefield functions: Maneuver and mobility support operations (reconnaissance and surveillance), Area security operations (site security and  • response), Law & order operations (law enforcement and developing host-nation police forces),  • Internment/resettlement operations (military prisoners and enemy combatants), Police intelligence operations, Lead small, tactical military police units and organizations, and Advisor to the Army Reserve and Army National Guard. Cybersecurity Engineer DMI Inc January 2018 to April 2018 • Operates and manages all aspects of Information Systems, data availability, integrity, authentication, confidentiality, and non-repudiation.  • Implement and monitor security measures for communication systems, networks, and provide advice that systems and personnel adhere to established security standards and governmental requirements for security on these systems.  • Develop and execute security policies, plans, and procedures; design and implement data network security measures; operate Network Intrusion Detection System.  • Conducts performance analysis of Information Systems security incidents; support certification of Information Systems and Networks.  • Supervise operation of Electronic Key Management System, other information security duties, and Public Key Infrastructure.  • Operate Host Based Security System (HBSS), firewalls, Intrusion Prevention Systems, Intrusion Detection Systems, other point of presence security tools, Virtual Private Networks, and related security operations.  • Supports IAVAs and POAMs, creating/adjusting ACAS repositories, interpreting/troubleshooting ACAS scan results, and ACAS Troubleshooting skills while supporting vulnerability management team.  • Supports, operates, and manages DoD Patch Repository for updates; operates Nessus and Tenable Security.  • Builds and manages virtual labs for ACAS Vulnerability Management Team. Break Fix Technician SENECA RESOURCES - Alexandria, VA May 2017 to January 2018 • A working knowledge of integrating Macintosh systems into an Active Directory Domain environment.  • Demonstrates knowledge and ability to remotely manage client systems  • Experience with security and anti-virus products for Macs and Windows  • Understand basic networking technologies (LAN/WAN and wireless)  • Excellent written and verbal communication and customer service skills with proven ability to work in fast paced environments  • Commercial experience in an IT support technician role that includes 3+ years of technical support experience in a hybrid Windows and MAC environment  • 3+ years' experience in helpdesk operations, to include  • Hands on experience and in-depth knowledge of Macintosh technologies  • Experience with mobile applications/products including: iPhone, iPad, and Android platforms  • Expertise in iPad / iPhone  • Self-starter that can collaborate actively with others in a cross-functional team  • Proven attention to detail and high standards for quality  • Highly skilled in documenting written troubleshooting steps and instructions  • Diagnosing and troubleshooting desktop system, printer and operating problems  • Consulting and instructing users on hardware and software questions/issues  • Collaborate with IT Service Center and Network Infrastructure teams  • Install, maintain and upgrade equipment and its associated infrastructure  • Runs diagnostic tests to isolate system problems and make recommendations for potential solutions  • Operating Systems Windows, OS-X  • MS Office (Windows and Mac) software  • Mac imaging solutions and ability to create Mac images  • Provides technical and troubleshooting assistance related to computer hardware and software, diagnosing and resolving problems related to operating systems.  • Conduct analysis of product installations, modifications and enhancements in accordance with documented procedures and specific customer specifications. End User Support Technician Army National Guard - Corpus Christi, TX April 2015 to April 2017 • Windows, MAC, VMware, VM, windows server platforms, SSL-VPN and IPSEC cisco based firewalls, intrusion detection, Linuxoperating system, IDS/IPS, content filtering security devices such as network and host-based firewalls which include DDoS, abnormalactivities from worms, Trojans, viruses.  • Managed trouble tickets, providing superior customer service to users with software/hardware issues.  • Provides technical and troubleshooting assistance related to computer hardware and software, diagnosing and resolving problems related to operating systems.  • Conduct analysis of product installations, modifications and enhancements in accordance with documented procedures and specific customer specifications Diplomatic Uniform Protection Security Officer Department of State - Washington, DC March 2014 to October 2014 • Handling confrontations with persons engaging in criminal behavior, attempting to gain access into a building without authorization.  • Acting in an unruly manner or otherwise threatening life or property.  • Proper distribution of highly sensitive and non-sensitive items and property.  • Roving/Foot patrol, and counter surveillance procedures.  • Room clearing and sweeping tactics.  • Responds to all medical and non-medical emergencies.  • Worked with U.S. Secret service on detail for the protection of President and Vice President Armed with Sig Sauer P229 9mm semi-automatic, along with PR24 Baton, magazines, Handcuffs and duty belt.  • Oversee 200-300Employees, Foreign Officials and Visitors at a time. Administrative Assistant Lowes Home Improvement - Bowie, MD September 2010 to October 2012 • Manage and maintain executives' schedules.  • Prepare invoices, reports, memos, letters, financial statements and other documents, using word processing, spreadsheet, database, or presentation software.  • Read and analyze incoming memos, submissions, and reports to determine their significance and plan their distribution.  • Open, sort, and distribute incoming correspondence, including faxes and email.  • File and retrieve corporate documents, records, and reports. Greet visitors and determine whether they should be given access to specific individuals. Prepare responses to correspondence containing routine inquiries.  • Perform general office duties such as ordering supplies, maintaining records management systems, and performing basic bookkeeping work.  • Prepare agendas and make arrangements for committee, board, and other meetings. Education High school Skills ACAS scanning (1 year), VDI Thin Client (1 year), GPO (2 years), Windows (3 years), Mac OS X (2 years), Desktop Support (3 years), Nist, Cyber Security Military Service Branch: United States National Guard Rank: E5 October 2011 to Present Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ January 2018 to January 2021 Top Secret SCI with poly Present CompTIA Casp May 2019 to Present Additional Information Skills  • Microsoft Office: MS PowerPoint, MS Word, MS Excel ? SharePoint, WordPress, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, Adobe Dreamweaver, Photoshop and Acrobat ? Operating System: Windows and MAC. VDI Thin client management and troubleshooting. ACAS scanning. RMF. Blue Iron/Airwatch server. Re-imaging. VOIP configuration. PowerShell. NIST.