Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Chicago, IL I live for the Ah-Ha moment. That moment when someone realizes that I just saved them hours of work and  made their job easier. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator The Gettys Group - Chicago, IL February 2013 to April 2019 Maintained, updated, and administered all aspects of the company's I.T. infrastructure. Monitored server and workstation operating systems, virtual and physical. Verified system backups per assigned schedule. Coordinated installations, updates, and upgrades for both software and hardware. Acted as L2 and L3 technical support for end users. Provided on-call remote assistance to all offices as needed. Managed the physical security systems as well as the anti-virus and anti-malware system. Created, modified, and updated I.T. systems documentation. Reviewed and recommended technology upgrades. Presented technology training to the entire organization. Also served as the C.A.D. Manger for the design production staff. I.T. Manager Depalma Group, Inc - Chicago, IL September 2002 to February 2013 • Windows Server 2000 thru 2008R2 (physical): Installed, setup, monitored, maintained and updated. This included a Domain Controller / file server, Exchange server, and accounting / WSUS server.  • Active Directory: Single site, User and Computers was used to manage all manner of users and computers, distribution lists and security groups.  • DNS / DHCP: Test and verify DNS / Setup IP subnet scope, dynamic vs. static and reservations.  • Group Policy: Created/edited group policies to control various aspects of the Windows Desktop client O/S (Windows 95, 98, Me, and XP Pro).  • Scripting: Batch file used as logon script to map network drives and printers. Additional batch files were setup to run at scheduled intervals to clear Temp folders and delete specific files. PowerShell used to manipulate Exchange data as necessary: mailbox cleanup, check if the store was shutdown in a clean state, and mailbox migration from Exchange 5.5 to 2003.  • Infrastructure: Managed ISP and existing physical wiring layout.  • Documentation: Created and updated all IT related documentation. Director of Network Applications Torchia Associates, Inc - Chicago, IL June 1995 to July 2002 • Windows Server NT (physical): Installed, setup, monitored, maintained and updated.  • DHCP: Setup IP subnet scope, dynamic vs. static and reservations.  • Scripting: Batch files were used to map network drives.  • Workstations and Applications: Managed all aspects of the company’s applications and operating systems (D.O.S., Windows 3.11, and Windows 95), installation and updates.  • Email: Setup and managed non-Microsoft Email server.  • Infrastructure: Managed ISP and existing physical wiring layout. Facilities Project Design Engineer Optimus, Inc 1992 to 1995 CAD Operator Optimus, Inc - Chicago, IL 1987 to 1992 CAD Operator WGN-TV - Chicago, IL 1985 to 1987 Education Bachelor's in Information Technology DePaul University - Chicago, IL September 2002 to July 2009 Skills FIREWALL, MALWARE, BACKUPS, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CITRIX, DHCP, VMWARE, DNS, EXCHANGE, SCRIPTING, VOIP, HELPDESK, AUTOCAD, PRINTING Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/matthew-babich-62228212 Additional Information SKILLS  Windows Server, Windows Desktop, Exchange, Active Directory, Group Policies, DNS, DHCP, Office 365, User Accounts, Scripting: Powershell, VBS, VMWare, Citrix, Multi-Site Collaboration (Panzura), Remote Desktop, Backups: Veeam, Acronis, Anti-virus, Anti-malware, Adobe Creative Cloud, VOIP, Firewall, Helpdesk: Spiceworks, Lansweeper, Programming, Printing Devices, Hardware, Virtual Reality, Augmented Reality, and AutoCAD Expert