Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - NJVC, LLC Fredericksburg, VA Information Technology Specialist with 14 years of experience. Performs senior operator and systems administrator duties on designated desktop and server systems. Configures Windows and Unix-based computer systems into required operation configurations. Conducts installation, operation, maintenance, and Level-1 repair of automation equipment.    Experienced in Cyber Opposing Force Operations spanning across various Army Units throughout The Department of the Army. Retired from the U.S. Army. Holds an active DoD Security Clearance.    * Desktop Support  * Project Management  * Network Design  * Cyber Security  * Penetration Testing  * Software Baseline  * Offensive Cyber Trainer  * Training Developer  * Data Analysis Work Experience Systems Administrator NJVC, LLC - Quantico, VA 2018 to Present Information Technology Contractor for a Marine Corps Agency. Provides daily automation support to 78 customers.    * Conducts systems administration duties on desktop and server systems connected to local and wide area networks. Performs desktop system management responsibilities involving account monitoring, security, Operating System (OS) installation, and other local area system administration related functions.  * Supports requirements for managing installation, configuration and maintenance of Unix/Windows workstations and servers, including Web servers, network attached storage devices, and stored data in support of business processing requirements.  * Resolves a wide range of system issues, troubleshooting software, hardware, diagnosis of network issues, and addressing trouble tickets and service tasks across all tiered levels.  * Creates and follows procedures to maintain and manage multiple linked databases including security, data safety and integrity, disaster recovery, and bulk data import/exports. Penetration Tester U.S. Army - Fort Belvoir, VA 2014 to 2018 Specialized in functional build of the Army's premier Offensive Cyber Mission Force. Charged with providing guidance to Senior leaders, policy and doctrine review and solidifying structure.    * Directly supported an Offensive Cyber Mission Force Team; demonstrated and executed tools and techniques such as but not limited to: NMAP, TCPdump, Netdiscover, Netcat, creating a payload, executing an exploit, and passing the hash.  * Conduct academic training for three basic Cyber courses, which exposes students to various types of software and tools to include, but are not limited to: Kali Linux, Wireshark, Metasploit, and Cobalt Strike.  * Operated and maintained a Cyber Range in which team members practiced penetration testing techniques inside a closed virtual network. Help Desk Supervisor U.S. Army - Fort Drum, NY 2013 to 2014 Entrusted as the Chief of Training for one of the leading U.S. Army Aviation Units. Oversaw Cyber doctrine, and training policies. Led a team of five cross-functional professionals.    * Operated, supervised, and maintained an Information Management Office help desk, provided direct support services to an Army Aviation Command.  * Maintained 200 users and 140 computers with associated peripheral devices; responsible for the installation, operation, and maintenance of automation equipment valued in excess of $200,000.  * Supervised the tracking system of Remedy Tickets and infrastructure work orders. Plans and Operations Non-Commissioned Officer U.S. Army - KR 2011 to 2013 Small Group Leader assigned to mentor, train and coach new Non-Commissioned Officers located on the South Korean Peninsula.    * Instructor/Writer for a Non-Commissioned Officer Evaluations School.  * Instructed and led 196 students in various leadership and tactical skills.  * Supported and maintained all hardware and software equipment in order to facilitate course material for the entire Academy.  * Recognized by the Eighth Army Command Sergeant Major for excellence in training future Non-Commissioned Officers of full spectrum operations for the South Korean Peninsula. Information Tech Support Non-Commissioned Officer U.S. Army - Fort Gordon, GA 2008 to 2010 Recognized SME and advisor to the Seventh Signal Command Chief of Staff in relation to doctrine and tasking orders for U.S. Army Network Enterprise Centers.    * Produced and briefed scores of Information Technology products in support of Network Enterprise Centers.  * Drove the production of 150+ annual operation orders; boosted the production of annual operation orders reports by 30%.  * Composed and developed a Router and Promina Quick Reference Guide; improved installation time by 30%.  * Displayed outstanding technical skills during an annual U.S. Army Field Exercise; installed the first data package linking a Brigade size element to the wideband network for Operation Iraqi Freedom certification. Help Desk Supervisor U.S. Army - KW 2006 to 2007 Served as Non-Commissioned Officer in Charge of two Help Desks sections in a combat theater in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom.    * Provided automation support to Coalition Forces serving in Kuwait and Iraq for user account management, software baselining, and infrastructure.  * Instructed over 80 Information Management Officers on theater policy, procedures, and computer troubleshooting. Automations Supervisor U.S. Army - Fort Eustis, VA 2004 to 2005 In charge of supporting an Advanced Initial Training facility with an assigned strength of 3,000 personnel.  * Supervised eighteen Information Systems Security Officers on tier 1 maintenance on over 300 multi-user information processing systems.  * Facilitated the installation of application software, hardware, and the procedures applicable to the administrative and technical operation of two domains.  * Developed standard operating procedures, which enhanced the security of three data centers.  * Ensured all information assurance vulnerability alerts were properly implemented to appropriate information processing systems. Education Bachelor's in Computer Networks and Cybersecurity UMUC - Adelphi, MD Present Skills Linux, System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory, System Admin Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: Staff Sergeant Certifications/Licenses Security+ CE September 2013 to September 2022 Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) July 2014 to July 2020 Assessments Technical Support — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/onod-d9sdwc6lwdb Project Management Skills: Time Management — Highly Proficient July 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/s8wt1uekjctgbvpd Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.