Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Flagstaff, AZ Work Experience Systems Administrator Arizona Dailysun - Flagstaff, AZ October 2013 to February 2019 Maintaining network infrastructure and support of 56 PC's and laptops and various Printers and Xerox  copiers. Support and troubleshooting Windows based Servers, PC related issues. Maintain and support  Domain Routers, Firewalls. Remote Sales support for IT related issues and troubleshooting Remote  Desktop/VPN. Supporting website and news/story data content uploads for multiple 3rd party systems.  Maintained Google Analytics/DFP and data entry for Google Ads systems and advertising reports for Sales Dept. and customers. IT Manager, Shop Floor Tech, Precision Machine Assembler RC Optical Systems, Inc - Flagstaff, AZ February 2011 to January 2013 Support and troubleshooting Windows based Servers, PC related issues. Maintain shop floor inventory and tracking of parts and subassemblies. Build and design telescope optic systems and assemblies. Order  electronic and machined parts for inventory stock. Shipping and receiving support. Online and Phone  Customer Support Representative. Document support including creation of Product Manuals and work  instructions documentation. Programming and configuring microprocessor Embedded PC/Software  applications for Telescope Automation Controls. Network Administrator Machine Solutions, Inc - Flagstaff, AZ November 2004 to November 2010 Hired on as a Precision Machine Builder then after one year was promoted to Network Administrator.  Five years maintaining network infrastructure and support of 100+ PC's and Sales force laptops,  Blackberry Server installation/support, MS Exchange Server and ERP/MES System Integrations.  Maintain and support Domain Routers, Firewall and AntiSpam Servers. Offsite Sales support for IT  related issues and troubleshooting Remote Desktop/VPN. Database Applications Programmer W.L. Gore & Associates - Flagstaff, AZ January 1991 to October 2003 96-03)  Analyze requirements from documents and create data entry systems from those documents. Generate  testing schemes and training documentation on systems created. Implement and validate systems using  W.L. Gore software documentation practices. Training end-users on tracking systems and helping create  Standard Operating Procedures for base users. Upgrade and maintain systems to keep current with process changes and systems upgrades as required. Problem solving system issues and implementing  solutions to correct system deficiencies. MFG Operator W.L. Gore & Associates 1991 to 1995 Hired as a manufacturing clean room assembly operator in the Woody Springs facility. Trained as a packaging operator through QA destructive testing associate functions. Created SOP's, Visual Standard  displays and manufacturing aids for use by operators on the manufacturing floor. Electrical Apprentice PowerMaster Electric Co - Glendale, AZ January 1990 to December 1990 Trained as an Electrical Apprentice, reading design schematics, bending and installing conduit piping,  installing lighting systems and power grids for those systems. Radar Operator, 16E US Army August 1986 to November 1989 Trained as Hawk Missile Systems Radar Operator. Served 18 months in DOD Combat Development  Systems Dept working with Mainframe Computers for the Patriot Defense System then 17 months in Germany. Education AA in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems Coconino Community College - Flagstaff, AZ January 1998 to December 1999 Skills System Admin, System Administrator, Active Directory