Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Centreville, VA Work Experience Systems Administrator ABBTECH Professional Resources, Inc April 2019 to June 2019 Position Highlights:  • Administered and supported Office 365 by creating, unlocking, and disabling user accounts as well as password resets.  • Hands-on software and hardware troubleshooting experience.  • Imaging computer systems via SCCM.  • Ensure the integrity and security of enterprise data on client computers.  • Managed RSA token user profiles.  • Ran MS and Symantec updates on servers.  • Administered server tape backups.    • Responded to issues, researched the appropriate remedial actions, documented the issue, action and outcome. Solved problems  independently and provided high-quality end-user support.  • Escalated incidents as necessary.  • Practiced network asset management, including maintenance of network components, inventory, related documentation and  technical specifications information.  • Managed operating systems and end-user software.  • Provided technical guidance for migration, configuration and deployment of MS Teams.  • Provided timely feedback to end users on their IT service requests/IT  problem tickets.  • Provided quality deskside as well as remote support to end-users. SAIC January 2019 to April 2019 Field Engineer 2 Engility Corp - Chantilly, VA August 2018 to January 2019 Contractor)  Position Highlights:  • Utilized Service Now for SLA Incident and Task Management.  • Resolved client issues using remote control support & technical phone support, as well as directly with customers.  • Imaging computer systems via SCCM.  • Active Directory Administration  ? With authorization, creates, unlocks changes, and disables user accounts in accordance with company policies and established security controls. Manages user accounts and access permissions and applications by reviewing user IDs or access requests to determine if they are accurate, complete, approved and appropriate.  • Supported Windows 7 Enterprise Migration - Windows 10.    • Responsible for on-site installing, maintaining and repairing company  and multi-vendor systems which include hardware, software and networking products as well as operating systems.  • Ensures customer satisfaction by advising customers on preventative  maintenance and configurations which may impact product  performance in person/deskside/remote, and via phone.  • Takes responsibility for potential or desired follow-up services  or problem escalation.  • High degree of troubleshooting skills in hardware and network  support, learning, understanding, and supporting new software  applications.  • Possess leadership skills such as being able to organize work and oversee tasks performed by others.  • A clear understanding of how to manage a ticket queue in an SLA  driven environment.  • Experience working in a large environment.  • Respond to, evaluate and prioritize incoming support requests;  maintain SLAs and document support requests in the ticketing  system including resolution steps and actions taken.  • Resolving BitLocker issues. Computer Systems Analyst Lockheed Martin - Herndon, VA May 2018 to August 2018 Herndon, VA May 2018 - August 2018  Position Highlights:  • Utilized ServiceNow for SLA Incident and Task Management.  • Push software products to customers using SCCM.  • Added new identities to the Active Directory domain and provisioned the identities with the proper security groups that held the proper permissions per application.  • Wrote technical procedures and documentation for new technicians to use to familiarize themselves with the imaging process for Dell and HP Systems.  • Troubleshoot SCCM Image related issues to identify the build failures and potential fixes.  • Troubleshoot server hardware issues.    Computer Systems Analyst (Contractor)  • Maintain printers; troubleshoot issues.  • Order, inventory, and return IT parts and equipment as needed.  • Create accounts in an Active Directory and assigning them to specific  groups.  • Build, maintain, troubleshoot, and repair hardware and software for local  and remote users.  • Back up and restored user data for Tech Refresh project from Windows 7  to Windows 10 Enterprise.  • Manage trouble tickets from inception to closing, includes tracking  resolution progress and updating customers on ticket status.  • Provide OS and database maintenance. Set up and maintain user desktop  environments; relocate and set up peripherals as may be required.  • Setup/configure users with Microsoft Office 365. Troubleshoot  problems with SMTP and IMAP server name and port configurations.  • Install, configure and troubleshoot Microsoft programs such as Outlook, Lync and MS Office Professional products (2010, 2013, 2016).  • Weekly meeting reports with the manager to inform the group of outstanding Tech Refresh project statuses making sure the local laptops  are up to date and have the latest updates and user-requested software.  • Provisioning new user accesses along with de-provisioning that access  when a user leaves the company and or no longer needs that access.  • Encrypted data and services with the latest McAfee encryption software.  • Assigned McAfee E-Policy rights to encrypted users on a whitelist and added and removed them from machines when they weren't approved.  • Trained and mentored new Tech's on the working environment to support the client. User Support Technician II FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION - Leesburg, VA October 2014 to July 2017 APS-321B (Contractor)  Position Highlights:  • Utilized Remedy Service for SLA Incident and Task Management.  • Resolved client issues using remote control support via DameWare Mini Remote Control & technical phone support.  • Imaging computer systems via SCCM.  • Active Directory Administration  ? With authorization, creates, unlocks changes, and disables user accounts in accordance with company policies and established security controls. Manages user accounts and access permissions and applications by reviewing user IDs or access requests to determine if they are accurate, complete, approved and appropriate.  ? Responsible for creating, maintaining, and deactivating Active Directory accounts.  • Supported Windows 7 Enterprise Migration - Windows 10.    • Microsoft Office 2016 support.  • Network patch panel management.  • Performed data file backup and recovery.  • Troubleshoot network connectivity issues.  • Support and troubleshoot PIV authentication.  • Experience with imaging and supporting Windows 7/10  • Support of IT equipment, components, and asset inventory.  • Provide one on one user technology onboarding and training.  • Performed physical material packaging, shipping and tracking.  • Coordinate the logistics of and conduct the movement of assets  and equipment between site locations.  • Performed server configuration as well as firmware, drivers, and software upgrades.  • Build, maintain, troubleshoot, and repair hardware and software  for local and remote users.  • Actively take ownership of Remedy tickets and problems assigned, accurately document work performed and troubleshoot issues  (in person, by telephone, or via remote access) in a timely fashion.  • Supported vast proprietary software programs from installation to troubleshooting.  • Ethernet and fiber cable installation and removal to support network  infrastructure needs.  • Installing, configuring, updating, and removing system and application software from Windows OS.  • Provided phone and onsite technical support to FAA staff in the Leesburg ATCC and Leesburg Airport.  • Responsible for monitoring, operating, managing, troubleshooting, and restoring service to client's computers and laptops that have authorized access to the network.  • Performed various hardware modifications and replacements, including but not limited to RAM memory, NIC cards, HDD, and cooling fans.  • Researched problems determine solutions and create procedures to prevent the repeat of issues.  • Ensured strict adherence to all departmental Standard Operating Procedures and processes including escalation of concerns to peers and management.  • Installed/removed mounting rails and or mounting brackets inside hardware racks along with cable management attachments.  • Reference applicable technical publications pertaining to authorized hardware and software products.  • Escalate issues and involve other team members wherever required in order to achieve resolution as needed. DELL - Reston, VA July 2014 to October 2014 Unlocking accounts / Reset local and network passwords.  ? Create new user accounts & manage existing user accounts.  ? Add or remove group access.  ? Create new computer accounts & manage existing computer accounts.  ? Granting permission to access of approved resources through Active Directory.    IT Support (TEKsystems Contractor)  • Migration of user data.  • Removal of Malicious software.  • Provided support for all remote users.  • Prepping training rooms for classes/new hires.  • Troubleshoot connectivity and networking issues.  • Escalated high-level issues to the appropriate teams.  • Supported a fast-paced facility with 450 users on site.  • Basic troubleshooting for Cisco IP Phones (7942/7962).  • Responsible for onboarding and new hire hardware  deployments.  • Break-fix support for IT hardware (Dell laptops/desktops/peripherals).  • Channeled user requests to the appropriate sources according to DSG protocol.  • Coordinated with the network team to configure switch ports to the correct VLAN.  • Logged, monitor, coordinated, tracked, and resolved daily service tickets appropriately.  • Placed orders for new IT equipment and adding equipment to OASIS for asset tracking.  • Maintained and tracked equipment stock for the office including laptops, monitors, and peripherals.  • Provided support to end users on a variety of issues. Identified, researched, and resolved technical problems.  • Provided Tier 2 application support for end-user systems, including Office 2010 and 2013, Windows OS, web browsers, internal proprietary and managed applications.  • Install/upgrade/replaces servers, storage devices, or network components and other hardware as needed.  • Responsible for the installation and removal of Ethernet and fiber cables to support infrastructure needs. BAE Systems - Herndon, VA September 2008 to April 2013 Position Highlights:  • Utilized Remedy Service for SLA Incident and Task Management.  • Managed corporate AT&T, Verizon, and American Messaging accounts involving:  ? Procurement of Blackberries, Cell Phones, and Pagers.  ? Configuring/Troubleshooting Blackberry, Cell Phones, and Pagers.  ? Adding/upgrading/canceling services.  • Asset management and tracking of all deployed and returned devices.  • Install/upgrade/replace/de-install servers, devices, or network components as needed.  • Assist with network cabling installation and removal to support infrastructure needs.  ? I was able to save BAE 6% in fees by finding and terminating zombie devices that were still being charged by AT&T, Verizon, and American Messaging.  • Corporate-wide upgrade of MS Office 2007 to MS Office 2010.  • Managed corporate AT&T, Verizon, and American Messaging accounts involving:  ? Procurement of Blackberries, Cell Phones, and Pagers.  ? Configuring/Troubleshooting Blackberry, Cell Phones and Pagers.  ? Adding/upgrading/canceling services.    Technical Support Analyst  • Provided Tier II remote and on-site technical support in activities associated with the prioritization, identification,  isolation, research, documented resolution, and follow-up of end-user reported issues through BMC Remedy.  • Deployed new software platforms.  • Utilized Dame Ware Mini Remote-Control v.6.9.0.0 for access to end-users both on and off-site.  • Reported network and application problems to affected  functional organizations through BMC Remedy.  • Supported Dell and HP workstations, laptops, and servers.  • Installed network cabling to expanded infrastructure needs.  • Engaged in corporate procedures for decommissioned  mobile devices in the enterprise-wide technology recycling  program raising funds to benefit community programs as well positively impacting the environment.  • Created and updated end-user support documentation and knowledge base articles.  • Installed system updates and patches on servers.  • Supported conference room meetings regarding laptop  connections, projector, audio, and AT&T Teleconference  setup.  • Responsible for on-site HP network printer setup, troubleshooting, maintenance, and maintaining printer  parts supply inventory.  • Performed installation and configuration of workstations and laptops.  • Ensuring activation of LAN ports on the switches.  • Confirming activation of network drops.  • Physical attachment of the system to the network for new employees use.  • Supported the setup of the VoIP telephone systems and end-user handsets.  • Provided basic troubleshooting services for VoIP.  • MS Lync & Outlook account setup, calendar sharing, delegation, personal folders, and archiving.  • Laptop wireless configuration and testing of VPN utilizing Juniper Client.  • Give new end-user orientation and answer questions. Gray Wolf Executive Protection & Investigations, LLC - Fairfax, VA December 2007 to June 2008 Position Highlights:  • Created, maintained and updated corporate images with security and program updates on the Ghost system to expedite turnaround refreshes of company Dell laptops and Dimension workstations.  ? This decreased downtime of compromised systems while increasing turnaround time of fully functional devices.  • Implemented a variety of COTs hardware, and software solutions to address client-specific data and document retention objectives.  ? This saved the company additional costs by avoiding the purchase of an expensive Dell server and licensing.    IT Support (Contractor)  • Supported Microsoft Windows XP Pro and MS  Office 2007 for investigators and protection agents by diagnosing complex problems and consistently  delivering effective solutions.  • Responsible for procurement and installation of all  new computers and networking systems to be used before the company officially opened for business.  • Implemented technologies that decrease costs,  increase performance, and positively affect  corporate productivity. L3 COMMUNICATIONS - Chantilly, VA October 2006 to December 2007 Position Highlights:  • Created documents that outline the Symantec GHOST image creation and ghosting process that the desk side team uses for each Dell OptiPlex Desktop/Dell Latitude Notebooks that GSI employees use.  ? This eliminated mistakes by streamlining the build process.  • Managed GSI corporate workstation images by removing outdated images, creating/maintaining new images with security and program updates on the Ghost server.  ? This helped to expedite turnaround of refreshes of company laptops and desktops.  • Performed asset management to assist in the tracking, procurement, and monitoring of company equipment.  ? Thus, improving the ordering of supplies and decreasing costs by 10%.  • This helped to expedite turnaround of refreshes  of company laptops and desktops.  • Triaging and repairing Servers & network hardware.  • Troubleshooting network installations & configurations.  • Installing and expanding network infrastructure.  • Assisted with network cabling installation and removal to support infrastructure needs.    Deskside Support  • Provided support and service for Dell Dimension  workstations and Dell Latitude Laptops.  • Handled warranty coverage of Dell equipment  between the vendor and the client.  • Performed networking triage - LAN Drop activation  and troubleshooting.  • Performed hardware warranty/RMA requests.  • Performed physical material packaging and shipping.  • Reported daily work activity results in Support Magic  Service Desk Database.  • Installed servers, storage devices, network and other  hardware.  • Documented results of testing and kept detailed  accounts of all maintenance changes and upgrades  noted in the Support Magic ticketing system.  • Responsible for troubleshooting COTS and Enterprise applications (including MS Exchange,  MS Outlook, MS Office 2003, Symantec antivirus  client).  • Performed hardware warranty/RMA requests.  • Record, manage and maintain accurate physical  hardware inventory, including performing physical  hardware audits. Operator duties PAREXEL INTERNATIONAL - Centreville, VA June 2005 to July 2006 These instructions were later implemented into the company's eSOM database for other techs to use.  • Developed desktop/laptop Symantec Ghost images and standards.  • Performed duties of License Administrator, responsible for maintaining records regarding licenses, warranties, and service agreements for the organization's hardware and software. Ensured that the Lotus Notes database was up to date, accurate, and audit ready.  • Performed Active Directory account services utilizing Windows Server 2003 R2, consisting of account creation or disable, password resets, add/remove, mailbox creation, delegate permissions, and Domain access.    Information Services Specialist 1  • Managing daily tape backups.  • Reporting, fulfilling ad hoc requests for data  restoration.  • Provide end-user software troubleshooting and support.  • Supported desktop and laptop workstations and respond to user calls for support, diagnosing  equipment and configuration issues with a variety  of applications at user's desk, via e-mail, via phone and over a VPN to our remote offices.  • The ability to acquire and apply job-related  knowledge within set guidelines and expectations. BIZTECH, LLC - Centreville, VA December 1999 to June 2005 Position Highlights:  • Found permanent resolutions to common  problems through education of the user population.  ? This decreased repetitive service calls for the same issues and saved the clients' money thus  earning Biztech more trust with the clients on my performance.  • Identified opportunities for other IT services and products in the customers' environment.  ? This increased Biztech's profits by 20% by being able to successfully sell peripheral devices  and software which enhanced customers'  productivity and performance.  • Installed wireless and CAT5 networks for home and business environments.    Deskside Support Engineer (Contractor)  • Administration and upkeep of Windows Servers, and Exchange 2000. My responsibilities included:  ? E-mail account creation.  ? Server backup and recovery.  ? File storage & maintenance.  ? Permissions, changes, Domain access.  ? Create, change, and delete user accounts.  ? Password resets and account administration.  ? Job status monitoring using Veritas Backup Exec.  • Provided HP printer repair, cleaning, and maintenance.  • Handled warranty coverage of peripheral equipment  between the vendors (Dell and HP) and the client.  • Provided system security & online privacy solutions. RHI CONSULTING - Vienna, VA May 1998 to November 1999 Position Highlights:  • Spearheaded company-wide McAfee antiviral campaign which entailed:  ? Training 8 technicians.  ? Updating virus signature files.  ? Monitoring security logs.    • rheaded company-wide McAfee antiviral campaign which entailed:  ? Training 8 technicians.  ? Updating virus signature files.  ? Monitoring security logs.  Field Engineer (Contractor)    • Migration from Novel OS to Windows NT OS.  • Created a detailed instruction manual with screen shots  for other Field Engineers to use in the installation, configuration, and testing of e-mail profiles for sales  representatives' laptops with dial-up Internet access.  Resulting in saving the company man-hours for re-work efforts. Technician TEKsystems - Reston, VA May 1997 to May 1998 Reston, VA May 1997-May 1998  Position Highlights:  • Instituted a comprehensive software inventory of the company's systems applications, with a review of the  • invoices and licensing agreements for software  purchases to ensure quality control and system integrity and cost tracking.  ? This saved the company money by eliminating  expenses for software licenses no longer needed.  Technician (Contractor)    • Performed daily backup operations via ArcServe.  • Tested for Y2K compliance, resolved software  incompatibilities via patches, and upgrades.  • Set up and provided support to workstations with various Operating System environments:  ? Windows 95/98/NT.  ? Novell 4.x.  • Performed file backups and restoration, hardware and software installation, memory upgrades, and modifications to end-user workstations. Light-Wheel Vehicle Mechanic US Army July 1987 to July 1995 I was  primarily responsible for supervising and performing maintenance and recovery operations on light-wheeled vehicles and associated items, as well as  heavy-wheeled vehicles.  Some of my duties as a Light-Wheel Vehicle  Mechanic included:  • Tuning and repairing engines.  • Replacing or repairing damaged body parts.  • Establishing and following schedules for maintaining vehicles.  • Troubleshooting problems in vehicle engines, electrical systems, steering, brakes and suspensions.  • Maintaining power-assisted brake systems, wheeled  vehicle suspension systems, wheel/hub assemblies and wheeled vehicle hydraulic steering systems.  ? Advanced Responsibilities:  • Supervised and trained other Soldiers within the same discipline.    63B Light-Wheeled Vehicle Mechanic  Training:  My job training for a Light-Wheel Vehicle Mechanic  consisted of nine weeks of Basic Training, where I  learned basic Soldiering skills, and 10 weeks of Advanced Individual Training. Part of this time I  spent in the classroom and part in the field. Skills I  learned:  • Engine repair and tune-up.  • Troubleshooting mechanical and electrical  problems.  • Repairing and replacing body panels, fenders  and radiators.    Helpful Skills:  Attributes include:  • A preference for physical work.  • An interest in auto mechanics and the industrial arts.  • An interest in automotive engines and how they work.  • An interest in troubleshooting and repairing mechanical problems.    High School - Lake Braddock Secondary School - Burke VA. - Graduated with Diploma Skills VPN, MALWARE, OPTIMIZATION, MICROSOFT OFFICE, CLIENT SUPPORT Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jay-f-7590936a Additional Information Areas of Expertise:  Microsoft Office Support  Remote VPN client Support  HP and Dell Printer Support  Windows Enterprise Support  Dell/HP Laptops & Desktops  Malware Defense & Removal  Managing Corporate Accounts    Technology Background: 22 year's extensive experience in implementation, analysis,  optimization, troubleshooting, documenting and resolving complex problems of Windows  systems to ensure minimal disruption of mission-critical applications as well as hardware.    IT Skills: Manages HP and Dell servers, laptops, and desktop workstations. Installation  as well as the configuration of software and hardware. Responds to user's calls for support.  Diagnoses equipment and configuration issues with a variety of applications at user's desk,  via MS Lync, phone, and utilizing DameWare (MRC) and RDC to VPN connections for  remote users.