Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Manager, Systems/Network Administrator Absecon, NJ To secure a position in Systems and/or Network Administration and Engineering, or IT Management, and  to use and further develop my talents, knowledge, and skills for the benefit of the organization. Work Experience Systems Administrator Cape Regional Medical Center - Cape May Court House, NJ June 2019 to Present IT Manager, Systems/Network Administrator District 19 Community Services Board - Petersburg, VA May 2013 to June 2019 23803    Responsibilities: Overall Management of MIS Department on an Enterprise level. Agency consists  of 12 locations with numerous servers (physical and virtual), routers and switches over MPLS,  DMVPN and direct circuits (MetroE and T1). My responsibilities encompass all the servers and network equipment for the agency and to engage and work with engineers, when needed (rarely). I  manage a small team of IT Desktop Support, Data Specialists and provide training, development and elevated support for that team. I also make recommendations to directors for MIS  infrastructure upgrades or improvements.    Setup, configuration and administration of:  • Microsoft Windows to present.  • Microsoft Server 2008 to present.  • Microsoft Active Directory.  • Microsoft Exchange Server.  • VMWare virtual environment, using vSphere 5.5 - 6.5.  • Dell EMC & Unity SAN equipment.  • Various types of NAS equipment.  • Microsoft Office 365 (Including migration from Exchange).  • VoIP Systems using Cisco Call Manager & Unity.  • Networking (Cisco routers and switches, Meraki, MDF, IDF, Ethernet, CAT cabling, VPN,  MPLS, Meraki, Netgear, and other wired and wireless equipment).  • PC, Mac computer and various server hardware repair, configuration and set up.  • Systems and network security (Access and permissions).  • Various types of backup systems for servers and data.  • MIS inventory tracking; purchasing, disposal (HIPAA compliant and agency guidelines). Owner and IT Specialist Mid Jersey Tech - Cranbury, NJ June 2006 to September 2013 08512  Supervisor: Self  • Performed DTS for customers via phone or remotely.  • Designed computer system solutions for home and small businesses.  • Performed standard desktop, laptop and proprietary computer support for Windows and Macintosh systems for customers.  • Performed installation, setup, and overall desktop, laptop, hardware and software support on Windows 95, 98, NT, Vista, XP, and Windows 7 for customers.  • Performed installation, setup, and overall desktop, laptop hardware and software support on Macintosh OS 7, 8, 9, and all versions of OSX.  • Performed total computer system setup.  • Installed, updated, patched and supported Windows and Macintosh operating systems.  • Installed, supported, and supplied training for OTC software.  • Performed overall hardware support for both PCs and Mac computer systems, including problem  diagnosis, and repair and upgrades.  • Installed and supported wired and wireless networking.  • Performed overall peripheral support, including printers and scanners, etc. IT Specialist III/ Systems Administrator July 2006 to September 2010 Newspaper Pressman - 09/1987 to IT Lab/IT Teaching Assistant Mercer County Community College - West Windsor, NJ January 2006 to May 2008 08550  Supervisor: Dr. Winston Maddox (609) 586-4800, ext. 3867, may be contacted.    • Trained and supervised students in computer diagnostics, repair, software installation and support.  • Independently supervised labs for various courses:  • Computer Hardware labs  • Computer Software labs  • Computer Administration labs  • Help-desk labs  • Microsoft Office labs  • Programming labs using Visual Basic, Java, C#, and HTML  • Introduction to the Internet lab  • Graded student work, lab tests, etc. IT Specialist III/ Systems Administrator Dow Jones & Company - Princeton, NJ July 2006 to July 2006 RT 1 and Ridge Road, Princeton, New Jersey 08540  Supervisor: Patrick Friel, (609) 230-6601, may be contacted.    As IT Specialist III/ Systems Administrator:  • Microsoft Windows to present.  • Microsoft Server 2003 and 2008  • Microsoft Active Directory.  • Microsoft Exchange Server.  • Maintenance on RAID system.  • Various types of NAS equipment.  • Networking wired and wireless routers and switches, MDF, IDF, Ethernet, CAT cabling).  • PC, Mac computer and various server hardware repair, configuration and set up.  • Systems and network security (Access and permissions).  • Various types of backup systems for servers and data.  • Trained and supported lower level IT Specialists.  • Maintained MIS inventory, including purchasing and disposal following company guidelines.  As Newspaper Pressman:  • Performed ALL aspects of offset printing operations including: prepress, setup, folder operation,  ink and water adjustments, registration, ink density, adjustments using mechanical and digital ink  systems, spray bar, quality control, etc.  • Performed ALL aspects of plate room operations including: set up; operations; equipment  adjustments, maintenance and repair; chemical use and storage.  • Performed ALL aspects of reel room operations including; set up, adjustments of reel settings;  opening, loading, and set up of newsprint for day's run.  • Performed ALL aspects of pressroom maintenance including: ink and water roller installation  and setup; offset blanket installation; spray bar testing, repair, installation, and setup; required  press and folder adjustments, etc.  • Experience overseeing press crew when put in Man-In-Charge position.  • Training in MSDS, Six Sigma, safety procedures, Lockout - Tagout, etc. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Systems in Computer Science Virginia Commonwealth University Skills C# (2 years), HTML5 (Less than 1 year), Java (2 years), JavaScript (Less than 1 year)