Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - 22ND CENTURY TECHNOLOGIES INC York, PA Work Experience Systems Administrator 22ND CENTURY TECHNOLOGIES INC - Mechanicsburg, PA October 2018 to Present IT professional with over 10 years of experience providing superior technical support and systems administration on large scale defense contracts.    Technical Experience  SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR - Mechanicsburg, PA  22ND CENTURY TECHNOLOGIES INC. October 2018 to Present  • Publish/Install applications to Citrix farms for the customer.  • Troubleshoot software/network connectivity issues in the Citrix environment.  • Manage application/web servers for the customer providing 24x7 support.  • Manage/troubleshoot account synchronization through Forefront Identity Manager.  • Manage application pools/certificates in IIS.  • Create/Manage account objects in Active Directory.  • Provide systems/application admin support during failover exercises.  • Work with Windows admins to ensure STIG compliance. IT SPECIALIST II UNIVERSAL SOLUTIONS INTERNATIONAL, INC - New Cumberland, PA August 2018 to October 2018 • Provide remote help desk assistance for users not on site.  • Troubleshoot software issues for the customer.  • Install new hardware and peripherals.  • Manage and troubleshoot printer issues. TECHNICAL SUPPORT SPECIALIST Mechanicsburg, PA 2011 to August 2018 Contractor Hewlett Packard 2007 to 2011 • Troubleshoot and develop fixes for software installation issues.  • Test new software and hardware as well as scripts to automate quality assurance checks.  • Troubleshoot network connectivity issues.  • Aid upper tier technical teams with troubleshooting, log analysis and documentation.  • Administer users, groups, and group policy objects in the Active Directory Domain.  • Perform system administration tasks for the Windows Active Directory Domain, and troubleshooting.  • PowerShell, VBScript, XML scripting.  • Maintain server integrity and availability.  • Manage accounts, network rights, and access to systems and equipment for users and administrators.  • Assist the deployment team by filling in as a deployment supervisor.  • Perform Courier duties. Education Associate Skills System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory, SCCM, System Admin, Citrix (1 year), Forefront Identity Manager (1 year) Certifications/Licenses Security+ April 2012 to April 2021