Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> A result-oriented, well-rounded multi-disciplinary professional with over 5 years cumulative work experience in the  telecommunications, automotive, power, energy and petroleum industries seeking an RF Engineer position. Work Experience Systems Administrator Swyft Drive Ltd. - Silver Spring, MD June 2018 to Present Requirements analysis: Analyze technical specifications and implement tariffs and configurations on promotions on the Cloud Payment Gateway.  ? Identity & Access Management: Create accesses for new system users, delete accesses for exiting system  users and resolve issues related to password resets.  ? Role-based access control: Create new roles, modify existing roles and assign permissions to roles.  ? Detective control: Monitor logs and analyze trends to detect security incidents and threats  ? Service Availability: Ensure 99.9% platform and service availability by backing up.  ? Data analysis: Extract monthly data on transactions, customers and drivers for reporting and analysis  ? Incident Resolution: Escalate complex system issues to second level support via the BMC Remedy ITSM  ticketing tool and consistently engaged stakeholders to ensure complete resolution of incidents RF/Radio Reception Engineer Denso Ten America Ltd - Novi, MI January 2018 to May 2018 Drive Tests: Conducted drive tests and field evaluation of radios with an understanding of basic RF (FM, AM, XM, and HD) to assess sound quality based on standard metrics  ? Bench measurements: Performed bench tests and bench measurements including frequency response  measurements, limiter curve (FM and AM S curve), and separation, with an understanding of modulation rate, usable sensitivity, noise, mono/stereo, limiter sensitivity, in-band sensitivity, AGC, frequency range, S/N  (Signal to Noise Ratio), FM S/N (stereo), C/N residual noise ratio, seek sensitivity, channel separation, and frequency response  ? Acoustic measurements: Conducted acoustics measurements, analogue and HD radio field tests, AM/FM  Seek tests and Stationlist Investigation for Benchmark  ? Test Equipment operation: Operated test equipment such as signal generator, audio analyzer, spectrum  analyzer, capture/playback simulations, oscilloscope, pulse generator, active probe, as well as testing new  software releases during Benchmark  ? Reporting: Prepared Benchmark report, and communicated analysis results to management for radio reception  decision making.  ? Stakeholder Engagement: Worked with OEM customers to define specifications and negotiate requirements  when necessary  ? Customer Support: Supported vehicle and functional vehicle testing internally and with customer to confirm  product functionality Graduate Assistant Ohio University - Athens, OH September 2017 to December 2017 Publications: Worked on a Professional project with title "A Comparative Analysis of RF Planning  Techniques and Challenges between Legacy Third Generation and Fifth Generation Wireless Networks", find  link to all my publications here ( https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Diana_Addae2). RF Engineer Verizon Wireless - Lewis Center, OH June 2017 to August 2017 Atoll database management: Corrected eNodeB IDs for sites in the Atoll database, fixed issues with missing  AWS carriers and cleaned-up for Market 249.  ? MPT Operations: Updated MPT solutions with Carrier information, and Siterra Project numbers for new  projects created in Siterra; Updated PeopleSoft codes in NetGeoX for sites missing the PeopleSoft data  ? Siterra Projects management: Created 2018 Carrier, MPT, and 20MHz PCS Expansion projects in Siterra, closed-out incomplete projects, and completed straggler decommissioning projects in Siterra  ? RFDS creation: Created new RFDS and revised existing RFDS as needed for new technology  ? E911 & SiteTraker Operations: Assisted in CQ and E911 filing and maintenance, approved CSCF tasks in SiteTraker for E911, and performed daily checks on Priority 1 tasks in C.A.R.T tool for E911 Graduate Assistant Ohio University - Athens, OH September 2016 to May 2017 Arduino:Worked on a motion-detection project using HC-SRo4 Ultrasonic Sensor with Arduino UNO  ? Grading:Assisted a faculty member with grading an undergraduate course in Communication Foundation Mobile Money Operations Engineer Vodafone Ghana, Accra September 2015 to August 2016 Platform Integration: Worked with team on platform integration projects such as Flytxt integration with CPS  (Cloud Payment System) and CBS (Cloud Billing System) integration with CPS  ? Product development, configuration and testing: Engaged stakeholders from the business to gather specific  product requirements and develop, configure and test products before rolling out to the market  ? System Maintenance: Provided system maintenance support for the CPS and SMSC and ensured 99.99%  platform and service availability  ? Reporting: Prepared weekly reports with BICP, BCM, SMSBI and Cloudview by following standard reporting  procedure  ? Data analysis: Extracted monthly data on transactions, customers and organizations for analysis and reconciliation by the Revenue Assurance team  ? ETL: Manually exported data from ETL platform via SFTP to Windows desktop Mobile Data Manager Vodafone Ghana, Accra May 2015 to August 2015 Working with the marketing team, I introduced a new channel of revenue generation called Radar Alert using  SQL Server, to strategically increase the revenue target by at least 10% month on month.  ? Developed a dashboard on the Operational Data Store (ODS) portal for easy accessibility of data for Mobile  Data BTL (below the line) campaigns to improve speed and productivity of work.  ? Developed new products and managed BTL campaigns using the campaign management tool, LMS to upsell  data subscribers onto higher data bundles and increased revenue by 10% week on week.  ? Performed data analysis on the performance of new products on the market and how they cannibalize existing  products, prepared graphical reports and presented to management Graduate Management Trainee Vodafone Ghana, Accra September 2014 to August 2015 Trained and learned on the job to acquire both hard and soft skills (business process improvement, time  management, team work, emotional intelligence, project management, managing upward, attention to detail, versatility, punctuality, proactiveness, ownership, leadership, adaptability) by working through a combination of projects from the technology, commercial and marketing functions (as detailed below). Quality Assurance Specialist Vodafone Ghana, Accra February 2015 to April 2015 Worked with the Commercial team to achieve 90% improvement in the performance of retail shops through the introduction of the Queue Management System (QMS) reports  ? Improved customer experience by ensuring the resolution of all technical issues relating to the QMS and encouraged management to increase the headcount of Retail Advisors based on the QMS report. Operations Analyst Vodafone Ghana, Accra September 2014 to January 2015 Worked with team to develop a Web Application portal for the generation of Value Added Services (VAS)  revenue reports to improve speed of data acquisition for reporting, and to increase productivity.  ? Improved and documented a business process for the Service Operations department. Solutions Architect Intern Vodafone Ghana - Accra, GH June 2014 to August 2014 Conducted surveys on customer premises; identified Points of Presence; and designed solutions for fiber and ADSL requests made by customers Assistant Electrical Engineer Intern Tema Oil Refinery, Tema - GH June 2013 to July 2013 Troubleshot faulty motors, fixed fluorescent lamps and street lights, and laid underground cables. Assistant Electrical Engineer Intern Ministry of Energy - Accra, GH June 2012 to August 2012 Managed (SHEP) IV projects, responded to correspondences and scheduled meetings for management Substation Maintenance Engineer Intern Electricity Company of Ghana June 2011 to August 2011 Performed routine maintenance on transformers in the substation and replaced old meters with new meters  within various customer premises    LEADERSHIP, MEMBERSHIPS AND AWARDS  Memberships - IEEE, Women in CyberSecurity (WiCyS), Cyber Maryland, Ghana Institute of Engineers  Scholarships - Communication Systems Management Scholarship, OU; Scripps Communications Multicultural  Scholarship, OU; Educational Pathways International (USA) Scholarship - KNUST  Sponsorship Award - Female Engineering Students Sponsorship Program (Vodafone Ghana) Award  General Secretary - Ghana Engineering Students Association - KNUST Education Master of Information and Telecommunication Systems (MITS) in Computer Systems Networking and Telecommunications Ohio University - Athens, OH August 2016 to December 2017 Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Electrical/Electronic Engineering Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology - Accra, Ghana August 2010 to June 2014 Advanced Diploma in Project Management Institute for Professional & Executive Development October 2013 to March 2014 Skills Acoustic, Analyzer, Lms, Oem experience, Radio frequency, Rf, Simulations, Linux, Multimeter, Real time, Substation, Functional testing, Electrical engineering, Bluetooth, Mitigation, Data analysis, Sql server, Oracle, Sql, Arduino, System Admin, Vmware, System Administrator Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES  Radio Frequency Engineering - Experience with RF Tools (Atoll, Real Time Tool (RTT), Mitigation Planning  Tool (MPT), Alcatel Lucent Planning Tool (ALPT)), NetGeoX, RFDS creation, Google Earth Pro, Siterra,  SiteTraker, VoLTE, LTE, E911 Operations, C.A.R.T. tool, 3G, 4G, 5G  Radio Reception Engineering - Evaluation, Benchmark, Bench measurement, Field and Functional Testing,  Understanding of basic RF - (AM, FM, HD, XM), Automotive OEM experience, Bluetooth, Digital Multimeter,  Infotainment, Acoustic measurements, Audio quality tuning, Hardware setup, Project scheduling, Test equipment  experience with signal generator, audio analyzer, spectrum analyzer, noise generator, capture/playback simulations,  IZT, oscilloscope, pulse generator, active probe, connectors  Programming - SQL, Python, C++, Java, CSS, HTML  Business Intelligence - Experience with BI Tools (Tableau, ETL); Databases (SQL Server, Oracle)  Systems Administration: Linux administration, Identity and Access Management, Incident management  Electrical Engineering - LEDs, Arduino UNO, ICs, Automated lighting control, Power Plants, PLC, Transformers,  Substation Maintenance, SCADA systems, Electronic meter, C++  Mobile Money Operations - System Administration (Cloud Payment System (CPS), MPESA SMSC); Product  development, configuration and testing; Data Analysis (Spreadsheet); Platform Integrations; Monitoring, Ticketing  & Reporting, Troubleshooting, Problem Solving  Computer Networking - SSH, DNS, HTTP, TCP/IP Protocols, ADSL, Fiber, Firewall,VoIP, WAN/LAN  Customer Operations - VAS Operations (USSD,CRBT);LMS,QMS, Customer Relations  Microsoft Office Suite - Excel, Visio, PowerPoint, Word, Outlook, Access