Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Valley Communications Center Tacoma, WA My objective is to fill a challenging management position in the fields of Information Technology which will enable me to apply my management skills with the backing of my troubleshooting, testing, and system management skills. Work Experience Systems Administrator Valley Communications Center - Kent, WA May 2012 to Present Valley Communications Center is the 911 Public Safety Answering Point for most of Southern King County, WA. As one of only two Systems Administrators in a team of 10 technical staff, it is necessary that I maintain aptitude on all technologies necessary to keep a 911 center operational.   • Represented King County’s large call centers on the King County Strategic Planning committee. This strategic plan was designed and put in place to define the county wide 911 system over the next 10 years.  • Project manager and lead technician for a $1.4M replacement of 40 sit / stand workstations; requiring coordination with furniture manufacturer, 911 and 800 MHz radio technicians, as well as electrical, data, and flooring vendors.  • Project manager for the deployment of an on-call paging solution for the technical services department.  • Project manager for a new solution for the recording of all 911 telephony and radio communication.  • Manages federal and state regulatory compliancy and security standards; specifically CJIS security standards.  • Design, implement, and maintain O365 and associated M365 technologies, enterprise wide.  • Install and maintain core infrastructure; including physical and virtual servers, storage filers, and networking equipment  • Responsible for installing and maintaining Windows Server and Desktop operating systems.  • Administer 4 distinct VMWare environments running 5.1 to 6.7, including a VDI environment running Horizon 7  • Designed and built MS Deployment Tools environment to quickly deploy end user desktops and laptops (approximately 150 devices, rotated into production every three years).  • Applicable troubleshooting and testing of server hardware and software to include all MS Office products.  • Subject matter expert for Viper and Power 911 call processing equipment; the system for automatic call distribution of 911 calls to operators and dispatchers.  • Provides system administration for core application services and Active Directory environments, ADFS, DNS, DHCP. Advanced authentication with RSA SecurID tokens and authentication manager.  • Implement, maintain, and upgrade as needed, applications, services, servers, management tools, performance tools, and security systems. Aircraft Integrated Flight Control Systems Craftsman United States Air Force- Joint Base Lewis - McChord AFB, WA March 1997 to Present • Non-Commissioned Officer in charge of the Unit Fitness Performance Monitor office  ? Lead a team of four in the administering of Air Force fitness assessment and associated paperwork  ? Liaison between the unit and the Fitness Assessment Cell  ? Responsible for tracking and maintaining that status for over 200 unit members. Accurate military fitness status is necessary for all aspects of military career advancement.  • Responsible for troubleshooting and repairing the Avionics Systems on 50 Air Force C-17 jet aircraft, each valued at over $200M.  • Led a team of four to repair and replace over 1000 feet of cabling that had been damaged by enemy fire at Baghdad International Airport.  • Aircraft flew with zero defects following repair  • Awarded Air Force Accommodation Medal  • As a Non-Commissioned Officer I have gained and maintained strong verbal and written communication skills both as a co-worker and leader.  • Extensive experience in data buses, computer system integration, and the replacement or repair of electro-statically sensitive equipment.  • Position required strong troubleshooting and system testing skills.  • Decorated service member; received two Air Force Achievement medals for exemplary performance. Software Certification Engineer II MorphoTrak Inc - Federal Way, WA July 2006 to May 2012 MorphoTrak, Inc is a major provider of biometric security options to local, state, and federal agencies. Every product is customized to the specific customer.  • Each software release is subject to a battery of tests including GUI, transmission specification validation; as well as graceful error handling.  • Communicated with customers, on-site technicians, project managers, and developers to implement tested software into production environments.  • Created test environments that mirror production environments for 17 different customers, using PCs and servers with Windows Server or IBM AIX operating systems.  • Proposed and lead the implementation of two "virtualization solutions". One in VMWare vSphere; and the other in Citrix Xen Server. Both projects consisted of more than 200 Windows and Linux based servers.  • Upgraded networking technology throughout the test lab providing connections to over 50 physical computers Software Validation Engineer Intel Corporation - DuPont, WA October 2005 to July 2006 As a software validation engineer at Intel, it was my responsibility to test new software and firmware that was developed for Intel's blade servers. The software and firmware tested / validated includes:  • BIOS, Baseboard Management Controller, Diagnostics, the Management Module  • Tested both graphical, and Command line user interfaces  • Testing required the installation and configuration of seven different operating systems including 32 and 64 bit versions of Windows, Suse Linux, Red Had Linux, and PC DOS.  • Requires strong verbal and written communication skills in order to effectively communicate defects found, and possible resolutions, with the developers.  • Rebuilt servers as necessary to ensure software support of new hardware technology.  • Moved the testing lab twice, necessitating the setup and configuration of all hardware and network infrastructure. Data Center Operator Davita - Tacoma, WA December 2004 to September 2005 As a data center operator I was part of a team that ensured all information systems used by 13,000 team members, were closely monitored, to provide uninterrupted quality service and information. Responsibilities included:  • Monitor and report on 23 IBM servers running with the AIX operating system, and over 150 Dell and Compaq servers.  • Maintain a working knowledge of BTU generation and cooling requirements for the above listed servers.  • Install new rack mounted servers. Ensure proper power is available, connect KVM, and patch into Cisco core switches.  • Run incremental and full backups on all the above listed servers using CommVault QiNetix, and Storix.  • Process reports and running daily close on eight medical billing databases.  • After hours emergency help desk support.  • Create and maintain current procedural documents. Education MBA Pacific Lutheran University 2012 Bachelors of Science in Information Technology University of Phoenix 2007 Associates of Science in Aircraft Avionics Technology in Aircraft Avionics Technology Community College of the Air Force 2003 Skills System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory, System Admin, Linux Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: E-7 Certifications/Licenses Air Force Professional Managers Certification May 2019 to Present This certification is awarded to Senior Non-Commissioned officers that meet an extensive list of education and experience requirements. It shows that the Air Force and my Commanding Officer value my experience and education, and trust me to lead, mentor, and manage Airmen within my unit.