Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator - Payoneer Bronx, NY IT Professional with 10 + years' experience in managing Servers, Networks and Firewalls. Able to plan, install, configure, optimize and convert physical IT infrastructure to virtual environments. Proven ability to work with a team on projects while providing effective customer service and delivering solutions in time sensitive and high-pressure situations. Work Experience Systems Administrator Payoneer - New York, NY January 2019 to Present Support Engineer RVM Enterprises Inc - New York, NY May 2017 to December 2018 Tasked with monitoring and troubleshooting complex issues in RVM's production and disaster recovery sites.    • Provide desktop support for all technical issues encountered by internal users and our external clients.  • Address all support tickets for 85 - 100 end users daily.    • Provide remote support to RVM users and our external clients.    • Manage Active Directory Infrastructure.  • Manage VMWare VCenter1 & VDI environments.  • Manage & deploy new production images using Microsoft Windows Deployment Services.  • Manage & deploy companywide security and applications patches using Microsoft  Windows Server Update Services.  • Monitor production and disaster recovery sites using SolarWinds Network Performance Monitor.  • Manage Firewalls in production and disaster recovery sites, which include Dell Sonic Wall  & Palo Alto appliances.  • Manage RSA Authentication Manager Appliance.  • Manage Proof Point Enterprise Suite.  • Manage Microsoft Exchange Server 2016.  • Manage Avaya IP Office.  • Experience Imaging Pc's using Acronis  • Administer and maintain end user accounts, mailboxes, permissions and access rights.  • Install, configure, maintain, and troubleshoot application server hardware, software, and peripheral devices  • Office 365 Administration Support Engineer APHC January 2016 to April 2017 Online Support  Provide remote support for Microsoft Hyper-V and Veeam Backup server infrastructure. Manage servers consisting of a number of different domain and network services.    • Manage users and group policies (GPOs) in Active Directory.  • Installed and configured Veeam Backup and Replication software for the virtual infrastructure of VMs  • Test consistency of Veeam virtual backups for available extraction if a system failure occurs.  • Provide remote support using LogMeIn and TeamViewer.  • Manage Windows Server 2008-2012R2 configurations, security patches and applications. IT Technical Support Specialist APHC - Orlando, FL April 2016 to March 2017 Tasked with resolving complex issues pertaining to hardware and network failure. Monitored both hardware and software systems for errors and updated them regularly to maintain a proper functioning and flow of information which improved productive at DeVry.    • Installed hardware and software system upgrades according to DVU standards.  • Provided Tier 2 and Tier 3 technical support. Troubleshot a variety of computer issues for Windows 7, 8, 10 and different versions of Mac operating systems.  • Offered technical support on-site, via phone or email to 80-100 students and collogues on a daily basis.  • Addressed incoming ticket request from users via the ServiceNow ticket queue in a courteous and timely manner.  • Working knowledge of SCCM client update process. System Analyst Ryan Group of Companies - Saint Johns, FL June 2011 to March 2016 AG  Created a wide area network (WAN) to link two different stores together allowing them to share production servers and network resources, which reduced infrastructure cost and spending by 65%.    • Implemented, maintained, monitored and controlled Microsoft Server 2008R2, 2012R2.  • Created and executed project work plans and revised as appropriate to meet changing needs and requirements.  • Monitored system performance and made suggestions to improve overall performance.  • Deployed, configured, maintained and troubleshot issues with DNS, Active Directory and virtualization platforms.  • Managed the ticketing system. Troubleshot, diagnosed and corrected system and user-reported problems.  • Installed & configured virtual environments for the testing of programs and domain services before being  applied to a production environment.  • Installed and configured Cisco Meraki network.  • Administer Citrix support Computer Technician Artios Technologies - Saint Johns, FL November 2007 to June 2011 AG  Provided a solution-focused service to seven major clients modifying and enhancing their existing IT infrastructure, which allowed them to improve productive by 35%.    • Implemented, maintained, monitored and controlled assigned systems for different businesses  • Developed strategies in order to initiate and monitor new projects for different clients.  • Installed and implemented new hardware or software applications, including operating systems.  • Tasked with desktop imaging for systems on the network. Education Bachelor of Science in General Technical Specialty DeVry University - Orlando, FL Associate of Engineering in Computer Network Engineering Antigua & Barbuda International Institute of Technology Skills Tech Support, Active Directory, MSP Additional Information • Install, configure and manage Microsoft Server 2008R2 and 2012R2, SQL Server 2008 & 2012, Mac & Windows troubleshooting and repairs. Manage users and group policies (GPOs) in Active Directory.  • Proficient in managing Microsoft Exchange 2016, Dell Sonic Wall, Palo Alto Firewalls, SolarWinds Network Performance Monitor, SharePoint 2013, VMWare and VDI environments. Working knowledge of Office 365.  • Install and configure VMware ESXi, Veeam Backup software, Microsoft Hype-V and other Windows services.