Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Georgia Military College Milledgeville, GA Knowledgeable Systems Administrator with the ability to quickly adapt to diverse situations and changing demands. Well-versed in Windows technologies such as SCCM, Lync, and Office 365. Looking to apply my five years of experience to a dynamic new position with room for advancement. Work Experience Systems Administrator Georgia Military College - Milledgeville, GA November 2013 to Present • Provide Tier II technical support to Tier I Technicians.  • Was part of a team who migrated the organization from on-premises Exchange 2010 over to Exchange Online. This project included 1600+ mailboxes.  • Administered Lync 2010 deployment and decommissioned the Lync 2010 environment  • Administration of Lync 2013 deployment spanning 11 sites and servicing 700+ enterprise voice enabled users. The deployment leverages redundant networks to provide high-availability unified communications services to the institution's staff and faculty.  • Administration of System Center Configuration Manager. Environment contains 1 Primary site server with 11 distribution points that are all over the state of Georgia. SCCM provides the institution with PXE imaging (BIOS and UEFI) and package delivery.  • Administration of Windows Server Update Services. The environment contains 11 WSUS servers with the goal of delivering Windows 10 updates to the clients.  • Administration of a hybrid Active Directory environment that syncs to the Office 365 cloud.  • Performed the upgrade for Perceptive Content. ImageNow 6.7 to Perceptive Content 7.2.2. This upgrade involved running database scripts, installing and configuring the messaging service RabbitMQ, and installing and configuring the Perceptive Content server.  • Installed updates into the institution's main ERP system, Ellucian Colleague.  • Built new servers and listeners for Ellucian Colleague.  • Fulfilling the role of being a "Bridge" connecting the three teams within the IT department. (Networking/Server support, Application Support, and Technical Support)  • Utilized Barracuda's Cloud Control appliance to manage spam, viruses, and other attacks from emails.  • Windows Server 2008R2, 2012, 2012R2, and 2016 server Administration.  • Windows Server migration experience: Experience in migrating over from a 2008R2/2012 Server to 2016. Experience with both migration methods cut-over and in-place upgrade paths  • Certificates: Installed certificates for various services such as Lync 2013, ADFS renewal, and IIS websites.  • Active Directory Administration. Managed One forest with a parent and child domain. Implemented group policies to affect different OUs within the two domains.  • DHCP/DNS Administration: Created records and policies to create projects.  • DKIM/DMARC policies implemented for Office 365 and Exchange online. This includes maintaining the SPF record and managing the include statements to ensure legitimate mail is delivered and spam is rejected.  • Reporting - Provides detailed status reports of all projects and tasks completed and in progress to management.    Administration of Office 365: Environment contains 50k+ users with multiple domains.  • Exchange Online - Responsibilities include mailbox management, unified communications, dynamic and universal distribution groups management. Troubleshooting of NDRs and mail delivery failures. Have manipulated variables in on-premise Active Directory to replicate to Exchange Online.  • OneDrive - Ensured storage quotas and availability of OneDrive for all end users. Resolved permissions issues concerning OneDrive.  • Azure Active Directory- Implemented Password reset/Password writeback for all users.  • Licensing - Ensured users were given licenses to access Office 365 through a combination of PowerShell and Group based licensing. Education Bachelor of Applied Science in Supervision and Management Georgia Military College - Milledgeville, GA 2018 Associate Degree of Applied Science in Networking Specialist Oconee Fall Line Technical College - Sandersville, GA 2013 Skills Problem resolution