Systems Administrator 1 <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> 1 Systems Administrator 1 - Aviation Technical Services Marysville, WA Work Experience Systems Administrator 1 Aviation Technical Services - Everett, WA July 2018 to Present As a Systems Administrator I am a part of a team that oversees the IT needs of 1500+ employees in an enterprise environment. I am the first line of troubleshooting for all technical problems within the company, providing support in person or over the phone. I also manage user passwords and accounts via active directory. I oversee creating and managing user accounts in Oracle. My other duties include but are not limited to: inventory management and control, replacing leased computers, setting up PC workstations, basic printer support, testing and configuring PC hardware and software builds for deployment, document and manage technical issues in ticketing system, and other various tasks assigned to me.    July 2018-Present IT Help Desk 1 Wireless Advocates - Seattle, WA January 2018 to July 2018 Providing technical phone support to wireless advocate kiosks across the country. My duties ranged from resetting passwords and unlocking accounts in active directory, reconfiguring Citrix receivers, fulfilling hardware requests, tagging and inventorying computer base assets, programing raspberry pi for verizon, tmobile, and sprint promos, and resolving large volumes of IT tickets.    January 2018-July 2018 PC Technician Suddath Relocation - Redmond, WA March 2017 to January 2018 As part of an average size technician team responsible for moving Microsoft employees to and from different Microsoft locations, my tasks include taking inventory of all electronic equipment, verify connectivity and functionality of PC equipment, label and disconnect all PC equipment, reconnect PC equipment at the new location, verify connectivity and functionality of PC, and document any damage or missing PC equipment.    March 2017-January 2018 PC Technician Everett, WA October 2016 to February 2017 As part of a small support team providing various IT related services to the employees of the Everett Boeing facilities, my duties include replacing expired lease computers, back up user profiles, installing requested software, inventorying electronic equipment, and movie employee workstations to different locations.    October 2016-February 2017 IT Contractor Robert Half Technology - Seattle, WA October 2014 to July 2015 Short term IT based roles in the greater Seattle area, typically providing basic troubleshooting and IT support to small companies, building MAC and PC workstations, hooking up routers and switches, setting up scanners and printers.    October 2014-July 2015 Education Bachelor of Applied Sciences in Computer Information Systems and Administrative Management Central Washington University - Everett, WA 2015 to 2019 Associates of Applied Arts in Computer Information Systems Everett Community College - Everett, WA 2011 to 2014 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, NETWORK TROUBLESHOOTING, REMOTE ACCESS, ORACLE, ANDROID