Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Apex Contract - Perspecta San Diego, CA Work Experience Systems Administrator Perspecta (Apex Contract) June 2018 to Present • Hardware and Software testing  • Interfacing with other engineering and operation teams  • Supporting Engineering efforts by maintaining testing lab infrastructure  • Applying technical knowledge to troubleshoot and configure devices in the lab  • Implementing network solutions including: racking and stacking, cabling, and troubleshooting  • Server Engineering and Management for Windows and Linux  • Windows 10 deployment and management  • Management of over 4000 Virtual Machines  • Management of physical lab and equipment  • Following STIG compliance with DOD Standards and security regulations  • Deployment of End devices utilizing automation processes.  • Assistance in IA and cyber security. System Administrator/ Engineer G2 Software Systems 2017 to 2018 • Maintaining servers to keep up with security vulnerabilities and patches.  • Applying cyber security best practices.  • Installing upgrades to hosted application software.  • Troubleshooting server/ network problems directly related to servers being managed.  • Buildling servers and configuring required software per DoD qualifications.  • Applying server hardening via DoD guidelines.  • Managing F5 appliances during weekly patches to software. System Administrator/ Data Network Specialist United States Marine Corps 2013 to 2017 System Administrator/ Data Network Specialist in III Marine Expeditionary Force 2013 to 2015 and I Marine Expeditionary Force (2015-Present). Marine Corps 2013 to 2015 • Installation and deployment of over 80 Virtual machines on new and existing networks across 4 different countries and 5 different operations while stationed in Okinawa Japan, 2013-2015.  • Assisted in deploying the most secure environment up to date within the Marine Corps in 2016.  • Installation and administering of Windows Server 2003-2012 R2 and Exchange 2005-2010  • Provided services and assistance to over 4,500 personnel at a time.  • Troubleshooting services such as Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange/ Outlook, Public Key Infrastructure.  • Ensures compliance to security standards, policies, and guidelines across the Military.  • Constantly providing data management services, server tuning, and directory service maintenance  • Performs and oversees continuous system health checks, user administration, and application of patches and upgrades using Windows Server Update Services.  • Provides business continuity through thorough back-up and restore procedures. Education High school or equivalent Skills VIRTUAL SERVER, CUSTOMER SUPPORT, MAINTENANCE, PROBLEM SOLVING, TRAINING, Vmware, Active Directory, System Admin, Linux, System Administrator Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: Sergeant Additional Information Core Competencies  • Problem solving: Troubleshooting, critical thinking, and decision making skills.  • Customer Support  • Team-worker: Ability to guide and work with others.  • Secret Level Clearance  • Training Subordinates  • Physical and Virtual Server Maintenance  • Fast to adapt and learning new concepts  • Equipment Accountability