Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Clinical Informatics Analyst - Engineering & Research - B.E.A.T LLC - Walter Reed National Military Medical Center Laurel, MD Work Experience Systems Administrator BAE Systems: DOD-Defense Information System Agency - Fort Meade, MD October 2018 to Present • Configures, installs and repairs computers, software, communications devices and peripheral equipment.  • Installs network hardware/software.  • Trains site personnel in proper use of hardware/software.   • Provide technical assistance and support for incoming queries and issues related to computer systems, software, and hardware.  • Provide technical expertise sufficient to resolve Tier II and Tier III problem arbitration.  • Conduct technical analysis to develop a Weekly Tier II Trend Analysis Report which identify the cause of increases and/or decreases (i.e., design changes, outages, events, and other network impact occurrences) in trouble ticket trends. Senior Clinical Informatics Analyst - Engineering & Research B.E.A.T LLC: Department of Defense - DHA - Walter Reed National Military Medical Center 2017 to Present • Direct support to all Systems Administrators and Technicians (in-turn their users) with the use of hardware, servers, business software, clinical applications, operating systems, unique technical and procedural needs as well as familiarizing myself with their specified systems outside of clinical EMRs. (i.e. Veccna Patient Kiosk, Aud Base Audiology, Clinical Workstation on Wheels)    • Server Data Tape Liberian. Primary point of contact and facilitator of the Secured backup data of the clinical servers. Transferring the data tapes on servers and preparation for transfer of the secured information on the tapes to WRNMMC's offsite location.    • Tier 3 support of Clinical Systems and applications to all WRNMMC and its satellite sites users.    • Assist and provide technical analysis of products, processes and procedures; engage with subject matter experts in determining requirements to assist and organize Clinical product teams.    • Conducting component level diagnostics in implementations of software updates and pushes to systems.    • Maintain documentation for procedures and processes, as well as maintenance logs and equipment databases.    • Troubleshoot and resolve issues with the use of remote support tools    • Use of Active Directory to assist in daily functions of the entire IT Department. Lead Unit Medical Specialist Walter Reed National Military Medical Center 2014 to 2017 Able to perform wide range of complex nursing tasks for patients of all age groups. Assisting physicians in variety of procedures and examinations pertaining to Medical Surgical, Emergency Response, and Traumatic Brain Injury. Providing wide range of treatment procedures, administration of medications within scope of practice while monitoring therapeutic effects, and operational use of specialized medical equipment. Effective in patient and family teaching, implementation of Plan of Care, and discharge planning.    • Ward Master/Non-Commissioned Officer in Charge: Supervised, mentored, and trained military corpsmen and medics to facilitate proficiency of all Service and Medical tasks and skills. Synchronized with Unit Service Chief in formulation of Staff Scheduling, accounting for Staff Pay hours and Nursing Care Hours. Responsible for Unit Maintenance, Supply and Equipment Budget of $6000-$12,000 per month Medical Specialist / Combat Medic (Sergeant) United States Army 2012 to 2017 Pre-Combat Deployment Instructor and Senior Infantry Medic 11th Armored Cavalry Regiment - Fort Irwin, CA 2010 to 2012 A part of an Opposing Force Company trained and proficient in Small Group Insurgency, Rebel & Militia Tactics, in facilitation of training friendly and international units for combat operations in Afghanistan. Served as a coordinator and participant in Humanitarian Medical aid to foreign Countries while educating remote areas in modern medical intervention to promote welfare in foreign countries. Education Bachelors in Nursing Kaplan University 2013 to 2015 Bachelors In Nursing in Nursing Prices Georges Community College 2009 to 2010 Bachelors in Kinesiology in Kinesiology Liberty University 2007 to 2009 High Point High School 2003 to 2007 Skills PRIMARY CARE, COTS, System Admin, Active Directory, System Administrator Military Service Branch: United States Army Service Country: United States Rank: Staff Sergeant October 2010 to May 2017 Certifications/Licenses Security+ April 2018 to Present Top Secret Clearance December 2018 to Present HDI Desktop Support Technician June 2019 to Present HBSS Training Certification February 2019 to Present EMT-B February 2017 to Present BLS/CPR February 2016 to Present Advanced Cardiovascular Life Support (ACLS) April 2017 to Present