Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Alexandria, VA Systems Administrator with over 20 years of IT experience. Areas of expertise include problem solving, infrastructure support, and customer service. Work Experience Systems Administrator MCR LLC - McLean, VA October 2014 to June 2019 Responsible for monitoring, maintenance, and implementation of server infrastructure. Maintained MS active directory 2008/2016, to include reset of passwords; creation of user, computer, and mail accounts; and creation and implementation of group policy both user and computer. Maintained virtual server infrastructure on Hyper V to include Domain Controller/DHCP Server (Server 2016) and KACE Ticketing system. Maintained physical servers including, Domain Controller/DHCP/DNS (servers 2008-2016) for each of our 5 offices and 2007 exchange server (Server 2008). Created and maintained backup solution with remote backup server using Appassure on Windows server 2016 in an offsite data center. Worked as part of a team to install, configure, and maintain VOIP solution using XO communications software and Cisco hardware. Assisted with migration and implementation from Exchange 2007 to hosted Office 365 email solution. Provided end user support for on site and remote user base. Systems Administrator/Assistant FSO Council for Logistics Research - Arlington, VA August 2012 to August 2014 Responsible for monitoring, maintenance, and implementation of server infrastructure. Maintained MS active directory 2003/2010, to include reset of passwords; creation of user, computer, and mail accounts; and creation and implementation of group policy both user and computer. Maintained virtual server infrastructure on VMWare ESX 5 consisting of a file server (Server 2003), Domain Controller (Server 2003), an AVAST! Antivirus server, GFI Mail Archiving server, a WSS 3.0 Server, and a Peachtree Server. Maintained physical servers including, a Domain Controller/DHCP (server 2008), 2003 exchange server (Server 2003). Monitoring and troubleshooting of robotic tape drive using Symantec backup exec. Created and maintained virtual test environment in VMWare Vsphere consisting of an upgraded mockup of our existing infrastructure (Server 2008, Office 2010, and Exchange 2010). Worked as part of a team to install, configure, and maintain VOIP solution using Shoretel software and hardware. Created and maintained image for desktop and laptop machines using Windows AIK. Provided end user support for on site and remote user base. Worked as assistant FSO, updating clearance status and requests through JPAS. Senior Tier II N-Tieractive(Apex) - Falls Church, VA July 2012 to August 2012 Monitored email queue for Incoming outage/maintenance requests. Sent email correspondence for acknowledgement/concurrence of outage and scheduled work. Ensured that all critical and non-critical issues were entered into remedy and correct teams were assigned and notified. Tier II Customer Support EITSD Service Desk (ALTA IT/Powertek) - Arlington, VA April 2012 to July 2012 Provided phone support for Windows XP and several software packages across multiple domains. Entered information on calls into Remedy trouble ticket system. Scheduled appointments for other technicians. Worked with server 2003 and 2008 active directory for account creation and modification. DoD Inspector General Insight Global - Arlington, VA January 2012 to March 2012 Provided phone support for Windows XP and several software packages. Entered information on calls into Footprints trouble ticket system. Resolved minor issues and assessed problems to escalate to the next tier of support. Desktop Support BAE Systems - Fort Belvoir, VA June 2011 to December 2011 Responsible for troubleshooting Desktop and Laptop computer operating systems and software, Juniper VPN access and/or Citrix, network printing, and other common computer problems. Imaged desktop and laptop computers using BART PE and Microsoft's SCCM client. Entered and tracked customer requests through Vantive Peoplesoft. Break/Fix Technician 744th Comm Squadron December 2010 to June 2011 AAFB, MD  Responsible for troubleshooting Desktop, Laptop, and Tablet computer operating systems, software, VPN access and/or Citrix, network printers, and other common computer problems. Imaged desktop and laptop computers using a preformatted image. Added and maintained printers on Server 2008 and Server 2010 print servers. Provided back-line support for other technicians. Deployment Technician US Army IMCEN (TSM) - Arlington, VA May 2008 to October 2010 Responsible for installation of new Desktop, Laptop, and Tablet computers. Troubleshooting after setup included software installation and configuration, testing VPN access and/or Citrix connectivity, and installation of Blackberry devices, for various service providers. Worked to develop scripts for data migration, task automation, and image deployment using the Altiris deployment utility. Worked with developing images for PC, and Mac desktop and laptop machines. Also worked with Active Directory 2003 in regards to adding, removing, and troubleshooting system objects. Was the Macintosh subject matter expert of IMCEN. Education High school or equivalent in High School St Martin High School - Ocean Springs, MS August 1994 to June 1997 Skills Active Directory, Vmware, System Administrator Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ Present CompTIA Network+ Present