Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - University of Maryland, Baltimore Westminster, MD An opportunity to utilize and enhance my technical experience in a Senior Systems Engineer or Senior Network Administrator position. Work Experience Systems Administrator University of Maryland, Baltimore - Baltimore, MD July 2017 to Present • Perform operating systems administration, development, installation, maintenance, and upgrades for the School of Dentistry.  • Ensure the security and integrity of operating systems to increased efficiency for users, applications, operating systems management, etc. Assist in the evaluation of new technologies and products. Monitor operations of central computing resources for performance optimization.  • Primary support for Tripwire, AppLocker, Varonis, Nessus and LogRhythm SIEM. Manage alarms, AIE rules, and provide reporting in LogRhythm. Manage baselines, alarm rules, and reporting in Tripwire. Monitor and manage Sharepoint and One Drive Compliance in the cloud using Varonis.  • Installed and Manage Palo Alto Firewall 8.X  • Provide reporting and insure compliance for PCI, HIPAA, and SOX compliance for all systems.  • Support keeping security related policies and procedures up to date.  • Part of team that provides monitoring of the campus security awareness program to ensure campus compliance.  • Part of group that ensures IT security policies are followed and provide support for new initiatives or required changes/enhancements to campus IT security.  • Provide technical support for client workstations and resolve system and program issues for all applications utilized by staff, including the upgrade of operating systems to support new applications.  • Assist with upgrades to hardware and software based on existing operations. Make recommendations for upgrading hardware and software resources.  • Document day-to-day procedures and protocols associated with hardware and operating system environments, as well as review systems in order to monitor and log abnormalities. Provide documentation to guide operations personnel in the day-to-day functions associated with hardware and operating systems environments.  • Provide consulting to applications and database personnel relative to hardware and operating system environments.  • Support of enterprise class storage systems using technologies including iSCSI, SAN, NAS, and vendors such as EMC and Dell. Support of wired and wireless networking hardware and architectures. Support Cisco switches, Virtual LAN setup and configuration, Virtual Private Networks, routing, IPV4, IPV6, etc. Manage and support VMWare VSphere 6.5 infrastructure. Support of system security and OS hardening and authentication protocols such as LDAP and Kerberos.  • Design and support VMWare Vsphere 6.5 Infrastructure with a partial hybrid AWS integration of VMs. Systems Administrator McDaniel College - Westminster, MD February 2008 to July 2017 Administered over 100 physical and virtual servers for faculty, staff, and students helping to lower costs for the campus infrastructure. Tested and implemented host based firewall for all severs across campus for a secure environment inside the network. Analyzed, installed, integrated, modified and supported all associated systems, networks, software, and databases. Updated the campus data center from 100% physical systems to a ratio of 4:1 virtual saving thousands of dollars in power and cooling costs. Technical highlights include:    • Set up and managed Microsoft SCCM 2012 to provide a greater and granular control for patching and updating servers and desktops as well as for pushing OS images and software deployments.  • Designed and implemented security policies for file servers, backup servers, and system workstations.  • Configured systems for multipurpose development, configuration management and testing environments.  • Manage user accounts, hardware updates and file server maintenance.  • Managed and implemented group policies on GPO basis, and organizational units using Active Directory.  • Maintain print server, RAID network storage, application server, DHCP and Symantec Ghost cast server.  • Provided desktop and remote support for 400+ users of Windows XP/7/10 and Mac OS for faculty and staff  • Provide support and management of Office 365 and Exchange 2013 (with DAG clustering) in a hybrid environment for Faculty, Staff and Students. Manage and maintain e-mail spam and malware filtering utilizing Sophos Pure Message and Sophos E-mail Gateway appliance  • Created and maintained test environments for Server application testing and development. Provided Server Application support, patch management, and application testing for several high profile packages utilized by multiple departments.  • Managed backups restores of the server infrastructure utilizing Dell AppAssure (now called Quest Rapid Recovery).  • Provided support in managing DNS and DHCP in a mixed Unix\Windows Server 2012 R2 architecture.  • Installation, configuration and maintenance of MS SQL server 2008 and 2012 which included New instance installations, database creation, report server configuration, and troubleshooting of dataset issues.  • Maintained VMWare VSphere 6.0 infrastructure spanning two locations. Supported multiple VM hosts for capacity and redundancy, utilizing NIC teaming and VLan trunks for network redundancy. IT Support Technician Towson University - Towson, MD July 2000 to February 2008 Provided second level desktop support to clients which includes, configure, troubleshoot, analyze, and repair PCs and MAC systems. Central point of contact for information technology issues/questions, including computers, phones and printers. Setup accounts, computers and phones for new users. Worked with domain controllers, active directory, TPC/IP, DNS and DHCP. Added new computers to Domain. Repaired and maintained onsite equipment, including printers, laptops and peripherals. Daily support provided to internal office staff and remote users, including sales and engineering departments. Technical highlights:    • Responsible for Desktop Support for 4000+ University staff and faculty. Provided 1st and 2nd level Desktop, Network, and Hardware support for campus based end-users. Was responsible for testing and implementing new hardware and software products and coordinating deployment with various Departments. Deployed Windows 7 and Windows XP System Images using linux tools.  • Installed, maintained and provided technical support for custom software.  • Researched on the Virus attacks and created scripts for removing them.  • Provided technical onsite support to Faculty and Staff.  • Extensively worked with service desk tools system (Remedy), including creation and response to Remedy tickets. IT Technical Analyst T. Rowe Price Associates - Baltimore, MD May 1997 to June 2000 Provided 1st and 2nd level desktop, hardware, and network support for 5000+ employees at three different geographic locations. I was responsible for administering user accounts, permissions, backups, and the troubleshooting of network problems on multiple Windows 2000 and NetWare 4.12 servers. I helped to conduct and coordinate large-scale software package upgrades and rollouts. Technical highlights:    • Provided support for laptops, PDAs, and BlackBerrys and managed RAS and dial-up connections utilizing Shiva Remote security products.  • Helped to test and implement a VPN solution to remote users in Tampa and Colorado Springs. Provided backup Help Desk and Networking support for several high profile departments including Legal, Fixed Income, and Equity.  • Provided training and support of various PC and mainframe based applications to the Legal, Marketing, Fixed Income, and Equity departments.  • Resolved complex technical issues that arose on client computer using troubleshooting  • Effectively made recommendations to IT users on selection of hardware and software PC/ Network Technician Automation Consultants - Timonium, MD January 1996 to May 1997 Worked as a consultant onsite at T. Rowe Price until T. Rowe Price hired me on as a full-time employee. While consulting, I served in a systems support role performing PC support and network administration tasks. I also assisted in performing and planning multiple projects involving large-scale PC and software package rollouts Assisted with the design and coordination of a major disaster recovery plan for several mission critical financial departments. Technical highlights:    • Installed and maintained Windows and desktop software, service packs, patches, and anti- virus updates.  • Managed assets inventory and deployed desktop images to end users.  • Reviewed open problem tickets daily.  • Identified problem and forwarded it to appropriate area of responsibility.  • Supported Action Request Queues, managed critical migrations, supervised help desk/desktop upgrade projects, led the Information Technology Services crisis management team, and ensured that desktop and LAN problems were resolved quickly and efficiently. Education BS degree in Networks and CyberSecurity in Networks and CyberSecurity University of Maryland Present A.A.S. degree in Computer Information Systems Carroll Community College 2005 Certificate of Completion in Micro Computer Support Career Development Institute - Owings Mills, MD 1992 Skills Active Directory, SCCM, System Administrator, System Admin, Vmware Certifications/Licenses MCSE May 2003 to Present