Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Los Angeles, CA Experience troubleshooting and repairing both PC and Mac systems, their hardware and software, peripherals and networks. Experience with customers, always adhered to the concept that a positive attitude and focus on customer service is the best approach to helping people address their concerns. Supported VMware/HyperV, Office365, Active Directory, Exhange, Mac/PC/Linux, Jira/ServiceNow/ServiceDesk, KVM/VNC/Teamviewer/logmein, Windows Server systems. Work Experience Systems Administrator Brentwood Originals - Carson, CA February 2019 to May 2019 • Maintained Active Directory and Exchange Servers in a Windows Server 2016 environment.  • Set up PCs and PBX phones for incoming users as the single point of contact working under the VP of IT.  • Supported 3 warehouses at the Carson location, and 4 other satellite locations for the business.  • Troubleshot various issues with PCs, Fax, Multifunction printers, and older AS400 systems. Desktop Support/ System Administrator Nestlé skin health/Galderma/proactiv July 2018 to January 2019 • Built and set up custom windows and Mac OS machines for Finance, and marketing Environment, as well as average users.  • Used Windows Server 2012, Active Directory, Exchange Servers, Outlook, 365 as well as with ServiceNow helpdesk software.  • Supported several off-site users as a part of a 1 person helpdesk team, as a part of a larger IT team, under short time frames.  • Troubleshot various hardware and software issues for users and executives in a corporate environment. Helpdesk Analyst JRK Property Holdings - Los Angeles, CA May 2017 to July 2018 • Built and set up custom windows machines for Analyst Environment, as well as average users.  • Used Windows Server 2012, Active Directory, Exchange Servers, Outlook, 365 as well as with ServiceDesk Plus helpdesk software.  • Supported thousands of off-site users as a part of a 3 person team, under high call volume and short time frames.  • Troubleshot various hardware and software issues for users and executives in a corporate environment. Asset Management Tech Dreamworks Animation SKG - Glendale, CA March 2016 to May 2017 Built and set up Red Hat Linux and Windows Machines.  • Replaced failing hardware and Peripherals for users.  • Scanned and managed company assets throughout the property.  • Pushed software to new systems, and transferred any pertinent user data to new machines.  • Dealt with troubleshooting issues for user's machines and workstations with various operating systems.  • Used Jira ticketing system, and active directory, as well as VNC and KVM remote viewing programs.  • Worked under high call volume and short time frames on user tickets in Jira. IT helpdesk support 1st Quality Tax Services - Inglewood, CA January 2014 to March 2016 Client Services Professional    • The first line of support for software, hardware, networking, and storage troubleshooting.  • Automated manual processes through creating scheduled tasks.  • Aided in hardware acquisition when new PCs were needed to be purchased in order to upgrade aging hardware, and set-up the newly purchased hardware.  • Troubleshot network connectivity issues as they arose. During crunch times, I assisted Clients in filling out all pertinent information for the services provided, I aided in clerical duties, such as Data Entry, Printing, Copying, Faxing, as well as answering incoming phone calls. Independent Contractor musicians, mechanics, lawyers, accountants - Los Angeles, CA 2008 to 2016 Desktop Support Consultant    • Independently supported hardware and software needs for small businesses and individuals.  • Worked on Macs and PCs, mobile devices, and replaced and upgraded internal components  • (e.g. Ram, Hard drives, CPUs, Motherboards, and Graphic Cards), installed and maintained wireless and wired networks, as well as supported office and media software.  • Advised customers (including artists, musicians, mechanics, lawyers, accountants) on hardware and software purchases that would meet their needs and provided cost/benefits  • Handled the training of any new users to the Windows and Mac environment, and explained programs and hardware usage.  • Provided reference material for customers to supplement consultations. Technical Support U-MEX INC - Long Beach, CA February 2011 to December 2014 • Deployed new workstations and printers, installed operating systems, applications, and drivers, and configured network properties and hardware.  • Serviced 50 client systems, and handled troubleshooting of major PC issues, which included diagnosis and repair of systems, reformatting and OS re-installation).    ? Anticipated and responded timely to system security issues, including e-mail viruses.  • Worked within tight budgetary and time constraints when developing and applying appropriate solutions.  • Maintained high marks on performance reviews in teamwork, customer service, and compliance. tested and verified all incoming PC's for the newly hired staff Crave Apparel Inc - Gardena, CA January 2010 to January 2011 Gardena CA Jan 2010-Jan 2011 Desktop  Support    • Diagnosed, troubleshot and resolved a range of software, hardware and connectivity issues for 100 computers.  • Built, installed software, tested and verified all incoming PC's for the newly hired staff.  • Maintained, repaired, upgraded, and replaced any computers and peripherals for users when required, after assessing the situation through phone conversation or in-person triage. Required a high degree of researching, analysis and customer interaction. Education B.S in Archaeology California Polytechnic University Pomona - Pomona, CA 2009 A.A. in Liberal Arts and Sciences Los Angeles Valley College 2007 Skills Windows 7 (3 years), Vmware (2 years), Office Applications (5 years), Servers (4 years), System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory Assessments Technical Support — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/gdcf5-kj6h-yx6pa Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/frbxnzlcj-rxsnhz Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.