Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Whip Mix Corporation Louisville, KY Work Experience Systems Administrator Whip Mix Corporation - Louisville, KY 2016 to Present Leverage a career history of providing best-in-class IT management and service to support up to 200 end users and manage the IT enterprise infrastructure. Facilitate support initiatives in a Windows environment and provide a "white glove" support mindset for all company IT users including executives, sales, and administrative staff.  * Clearly communicate with internal customers, onsite and remotely at all levels of the organization, focused on resolving networking, computer, iPad, and telecom issues.  * Setup and manage 50+ Windows and WSUS servers located in CO and KY as well as virtual machines.  * Expertly manage and close all IT trouble tickets in a timely manner.  * Actively participate in Scrum meetings to update IT systems and follow up on open projects.  * Support IT hardware/software including Active Directory, MS Exchange, Server 2008, VMware, Group Policy, Dynamics AX Security, Terminal/RDP Server, Windows 7/10, WSUS Servers, SSRS, and SQL. Security Administrator Humana Inc - Louisville, KY 2014 to 2015 Collaborated with and served as a vital component of a 60-person IT team that provided IT support and administration to more than 60,000 employees. Worked and closed close to 700 trouble tickets each month, 35 tickets each day. Managed and provisioned user accounts and handled security delegation across multiple platforms including Active Directory, MS Exchange, SQL Server and other enterprise level systems.  * Managed infrastructure security environment, and permissions for users.  * Answered complex security IT issues and resolved each request utilizing a team approach to troubleshoot and resolve reported issues. Security Administrator TEKsystems - Louisville, KY February 2014 to March 2014 Assigned a short-term IT contract to provide IT security support for up to 3,000 users as part of a Security Access Team effort that supported physicians, medical professionals and administrative personnel for a high-volume healthcare facility requiring continuous IT service and support delivery.  * Managed user accounts and oversaw security access across multiple technology platforms including Active Directory, GroupWise, and other healthcare systems.  * Setup access to enterprise software and systems that included Electronic Medical Records and other critical enterprise software. IT Project Coordinator Robert Half - Louisville, KY May 2013 to December 2013 Brought in to fulfill a vital IT project role in replacement of standard hard drives with solid state drives. Cloned drives and encrypted drives for all staff for this REIT real estate investment trust organization. Replaced and encrypted all laptops for the Louisville office and supported up to 250 remote and corporate employees.  * Delivered responsive IT help desk support for Windows 7, Server 2008, and Active Directory issues.  * Supported remote location users over the phone, talked them through issues or remotely accessed systems to complete configuration changes, updates, and/or troubleshot issues. IT Systems Manager Office of Chapter 13 Trustee Western District of Kentucky 2002 to 2012 Oversaw IT operations and provided best-in-class IT service and support to 22 attorneys, trustees, and administration personnel as well as 8,000 clients who accessed the system. Setup security for a wide range of applications and systems on the network. Completed stringent security audits and documented all processes, under the auspices of the Department of Justice.  * Supported iPhones and iPads, configuration and connection to the local area network.  * Assisted in technology procurement by recommending new/emerging technology with an eye on productivity and cost containment.  * Troubleshot and resolved all IT hardware/software issues, setup all network devices, and managed network, server, and local computer assets.  * Managed, maintained, and developed all Crystal Reports forms; created and documented IT security and technical user policies, detailed guidelines of how IT systems/equipment was accessed and utilized.  * Supported hardware/software including Server 2003/2008, Active Directory, Exchange 2000/2003, UNIX/AIX, Linux Virtual Server Administration, Centos, Kernel-based Virtual machine, SQL Server 2005/2008, Windows 2000, XP, 7. Help Desk/IT Support Aperture, Incorporated - Louisville, KY 1999 to 2002 Provided IT systems and desktop troubleshooting support as part of a 6-person IT team providing support for 200 networked computers and printers. Installed/upgraded hardware and needed software. Supported telecom for associates.  * Troubleshot, diagnosed, and resolved reported IT hardware/software issues, with proficiency in MS Office products. Credentials Verification Specialist/Team Leader/Trainer Aperture, Incorporated - Louisville, KY 1997 to 1999 Classroom trainer of new associates in quality review, managed quality control for provider files before mailing to clients. Verified health practitioners' credentials followed nationwide recognized accreditation standards including NCQA. Supported healthcare practitioners, universities, license boards, and third-party sources.  * Handpicked to participate in a 10-person task force that assisted leadership in retrieving offline verifications. Education B.A. in Psychology University of Louisville - Louisville, KY Jefferson Community and Technical College - Louisville, KY Skills Configure Group Policies, AX Security Administration, Terminal/RDP Server Administration, Windows 7/10, Active Directory, MS Exchange, UNIX Administrator-AIX, Linux Virtual Server Administration, SQL Server, Centos, Kernel-based Virtual machine-KVM, Enterprise Systems Administration, VMware, Server 2008 Administration, Skilled IT Problem Resolution Strategist, Remote and Local User Support, WSUS Server, WordPress, Technical Trainer, Resolve IT Security Issues, Thrive in Deadline-driven Environments, Problem Resolution Strategist, Flexible and Dedicated, Cost Containment, Embrace Cultural Diversity, Articulate and Intelligent, Highly Detail-oriented, Poised and Professional, Team Leadership, Process Improvements, Drive Team Cohesion and Collaboration, Clear/Concise Communicator, Critical Thinker, Highly Observant, Organized and Efficient, MS Office, SSRS, Group Policy, Linux Administrator, System Admin, System Administrator, Redhat, Linux