Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator - Walters & Wolf Glass Company Castro Valley, CA IT Professional with more than ten years of experience, seeking growth and the next big challenge.    An accomplished system administrator with experience in implementing, managing, and troubleshooting system/network/applications, end user support, large project rollouts, ITSM, team leadership, documentation, and analytics and reporting, within SMB and large enterprise environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Walters & Wolf Glass Company - Fremont, CA 2017 to Present As a member of a lean and efficient IT team, supporting 600+ users across 9 sites, I manage day to day incidents along with the following:  • VMware vCenter administration (building hosts, spinning up VMs, monitoring VM health)  • Veeam backup and replication; NetApp storage administration  • Manage Windows updates using WSUS; image deployment using MDT  • Active Directory Users and Computers, and group policy management  • Citrix VDI administration  • MDM administration for iPhones and iPads using XenMobile  • O365 administration  • Creation and deployment of software packages using PDQ Deploy  • Ruckus enterprise WLAN administration  • Disaster Recovery planning and implementation  • Remote end-user and in person desktop support  • Technical and end-user documentation; new user orientations    Recent Accomplishments in 2018:  • Migration of VMware vCenter Server 5.5 to VCSA 6.5, and upgrades of ESXi hosts from 5.5 to 6.5 in all sites.  • Rollout of Zoom Room video conferencing to multiple sites and organizing and leading live end user training.  • Updating VDI golden images to meet business requirements and pushing out to over 50 VMs.  • Setup and install new ESXi hosts at 3 remote locations; setup DCs, backups to local NAS, WSUS, Print services.  • Created a self-service Helpdesk Sharepoint site, which alerts users on outages and upcoming maintenance, and houses a documentation repository. Level 2 Technical Support Lead Sephora USA, Inc - San Francisco, CA 2014 to 2017 Lead member of a support team in a 24/7/365 brick-and-mortar and e-commerce environment, responsible for escalation/resolution of high severity incidents, network/ system/application support, service management utilizing an ITIL framework, and analytics/reporting.  • Escalation point for high severity incidents; Identify and track complex problems in the environment  • Use of the ServiceNow ITSM platform  • Administration and troubleshooting of store network infrastructure  • Windows administration: SCCM, Active Directory users and computers, DNS, DHCP.  • Xstore POS and mobile POS application support and troubleshooting  • Airwatch MDM support and troubleshooting  • Daily/weekly/ad hoc reports for trend analysis and production/project scorecards  • Management and participation in service management meetings  • Acting team manager when manager was on PTO/out of office  • Training and mentoring of team members; provide Runbook documentation for Helpdesk  • Participation in a 24/7 on-call rotation as primary and back up. Lead Technical Support Analyst Gap Inc - Oakland, CA 2012 to 2014 Lead Technical Support Analyst, responsible for project work assigned by our main customer, Gap Inc.  • Planning, technical implementation, and support for new technology projects.  • SUSE Linux OS migrations in all European stores (300+ retail stores.)  • Project lead for rollout of Axper foot-traffic counters in European stores.  • Team lead on the Canadian Circuit Refresh project (200+ retail stores) and US Network Upgrade project (router/switch/firewall and data circuit upgrade in 25+ stores a night.) Management of a team of up to five analysts, which included training and scheduling of the analysts. Main escalation point for major technical issues, which would range from Layer 1 cabling issues to Layer 3 routing configuration issues. Frequently handled high stress situations in a calm and professional manner. Created the documentation used by remote analysts and onsite technicians. Network Lab Technician Motorola Solutions - San Jose, CA 2002 to 2012 Working with the Network QA testing labs of our customer, Motorola Solutions.  • Built test beds from the ground up, consisting of large data rack materials.  • Ran various types of cable throughout the lab, with lengths that could exceed 100 ft  • Set up and tested scalable local area networks; set up router/switch base configurations, configured VLANs and trunking, set static and dynamic routing  • Worked with senior engineers daily to solve system problems Education San Francisco State University - San Francisco, CA 2008 Skills Vmware, Veeam, Windows Server, Active Directory, System Administrator, System Admin, Disaster Recovery Certifications/Licenses ITIL v3 2015 to Present