Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Parsons, Behle and Latimer Ogden, UT A technically astute IT professional offering a combination of project management and technical expertise. I am business savvy with solid leadership acumen. Work Experience Systems Administrator Parsons, Behle and Latimer - Salt Lake City, UT September 2018 to Present Providing Professional service and support for attorneys, management, staff and clients. Daily system administrative support for various servers, Active Directory structure, delegation and monitoring. As well as, A/V conference setup and support including Web EX conferencing, Skype for Business, GoTo Meeting. Complete help ticket logging and documentation through Ivanti ITSM and SDE ticketing systems Including inventory management and monthly reconciliations. Assist with all aspects of company use cell phones (basic and smart phones), MIFI's, Surface Pro's, tablets, iPad's through the Okta platform. Verizon Access Manager and iTunes; Advanced networking knowledge including servers, switches, wireless routers & access points, print servers; driver support, drive mapping and network topology including: TCP/IP, LAN/WAN protocols, network monitoring, cabling, VOIP phone systems, router and switch configuring, monitoring and troubleshooting. Extensive Remote application system support for VPN, Citrix, OWA and VMWare. Software installations and administrative rights support for various systems including MS Office 365 Enterprise and Windows 10 LTS. Vastly experienced in Windows OS imaging through SCCM, software/firmware updates, application testing and deployments, along with Net Documents Document Management systems. IT Senior Project Coordinator Ogden City - Ogden, UT June 2018 to September 2018 Work closely and in harmony with Department/Division managers and their assigned project leads to coordinate all aspects of their projects and programs; using appropriate customer service, project management, business analysis, and information technology techniques to plan, design, develop, implement and follow up on IT solutions and systems that support both city-wide organizational business functions and processes while maintaining compliance with appropriate policies, guidelines, standards, and appropriately incorporating new technologies and data architectures. Coordinate other support needs with appropriate I.T. and City staff. Receives direct supervision from the Customer Account Supervisor. Receive indirect supervision from the I.T. Manager. Technical Support Specialist Stoel Rives LLP - Salt Lake City, UT October 2015 to May 2018 Providing Professional "Anytime, Anywhere" service and support for attorneys, management, staff and clients. Daily system administrative support for MS Exchange and various servers, Active Directory structure, delegation and monitoring. As well as, A/V conference setup and support including Sound Path and Blue Jeans conferencing, Skype for Business, GoTo Meeting. Complete help ticket logging and documentation through Cherwell ITSM and SDE ticketing systems Including inventory management and monthly reconciliations through Kanbanize management support. Assist with all aspects of company use cell phones (basic and smart phones), MIFI's, Surface Pro's, tablets, iPad's through Mobile Iron. Verizon Access Manager and iTunes; Advanced networking knowledge including servers, switches, wireless routers & access points, print servers; driver support, drive mapping and network topology including: TCP/IP, LAN/WAN protocols, network monitoring, cabling, VOIP phone systems, router and switch configuring, monitoring and troubleshooting. Extensive Remote application system support for VPN, Citrix, OWA, VMWare, Net Support and LogMeIn Rescue. Software installations and administrative rights support for various systems including MS Office Professional 2010 suite, Visio Professional 2010, Share Point 2010; Workshare Compare, Mac Pac, Interaction, Carpe Diem, Time builder, Box and Dropbox. Vastly experienced in Windows OS imaging through SCCM, software/firmware updates, application testing and deployments; Milan Workspace & Document Management systems; Autonomy Worksite/File Site Document Management Systems (DMS); and litigation support technologies (Relativity, Concordance, Case Map and Text Map). Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Weber State College - Ogden, UT Links http://www.linkedin.com/pub/michael-steffensen/31/988/760