Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Indian Head, MD Work Experience Systems Administrator Catapult Technology - Washington DC 2011 to Present Plan and test, and coordinate with vendors to deploy COTS and GOTS software within the OSD (Office  of Secretary of Defense) network. Provide after-hours support for maintenance and upgrades.  Ensure applications have been accredited using the latest DISA STIGS and receive authority to  operate prior to connecting to network. Document implementation and create system administration  manuals. Enterprise System Administrator ITT SYSTEMS 2011 to 2011 Responsible for effective provisioning, installation/configuration, operation, and maintenance of systems hardware and software and related infrastructure. Participates in technical research and development to enable continuing innovation within the infrastructure. This individual ensures that system hardware, operating systems, software systems, and related procedures adhere to organizational values.    Selected Highlights:  • Apply IAVA updates and patches  • Manage storage/disk quotas  • Check logs and services  • Maintain systems backups  • Create, manage, and maintain Active Directory infrastructure and objects  • Account and Organizational Unit creations, modifications, moves, deletions, etc.  • Monitor and maintain systems availability, including health and performance    CATAPULT TECHNOLOGY - Arlington, VA  O&M System Administrator  Developed, managed, tested and provided support to multiple enterprise wide systems and servers in support of the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) ; Worked on a variety of COTS and GOTS applications to include Tririga, (ITS) Integrated Tracking System, Projectwise, various Bentley products. recommended installs and supported enterprise-wide computing systems, and related infrastructure, e.g., Active Directory, Group Policy Management. Coordinated changes to server applications, including upgrades, patches and fixes; trained staff to perform technical, support or configuration functions on servers, and provided staff cross-training to support and maintain systems    2009-2011  Selected Highlights:  • Implements standards and guidelines and maintains STIG Compliance.  • Support for over 3000 users across 5 separate domains. Field Software Engineer ILEX SYSTEMS / L-3 COMMUNICATIONS - Bagram, AF 2008 to 2009 Provide software engineering support for warfighting units across tactical and strategic military locations. Troubleshoot and administer support for multiple systems to include Command Post of the Future (CPOF) / Maneuver Control Systems (MCS). Manage the architecture, analysis, design, coding, testing, and debugging of software. Support 1,250 Exchange users and 600 CPOF users within a tactical environment. Deliver classroom IT training and support.    Selected Highlights:  • Led projects to install and upgrade software applications as well as applying patches within a SharePoint environment.  • Achieved 98% system uptime by identifying and resolving regional issues for CPOF / MCS systems. System Administrator / Help Desk Manager / UNIX System Administrator / IT Specialist UNITED STATES ARMY 2001 to 2008 Transitioned in various roles from supporting help desk / IT operations to providing systems administration across multiple military installations. Served as a subject matter expert in system configurations, server maintenance, testing strategy and execution. Conducted computer diagnostics to investigate and resolve Microsoft Desktop operating systems. Provided desktop support - TCP\IP, DNS, and DHCP. Performed technical support, installations, and troubleshooting of Global Command and Control Systems. Oversaw Global Address List, MS Active Directory, and other network directory services.    Selected Highlights:  • Administered numerous classified and unclassified military systems including providing technical support across entire IT infrastructure of servers, operating systems, and storage networks for Operation Iraqi Freedom.  • Designed and implemented IT policies and procedures to protect data, software, and hardware critical to minimizing disruptions in support of mission-critical military operations.  • Managed three Windows Server 2003 enterprise domain controllers and two Maneuver control systems utilizing physical / standard networking protocols and network device configurations to eliminate potential system issues.  • Reduced system workload by 25% by reorganizing help desk functions to provide more efficient end-user support.  • Delivered support for numerous military information systems for entire southern region of Afghanistan.  • Deployed and configured UNIX servers and client workstation using Windows NT / 2000 and C2PC software.  • Accomplished 95% uptime in supporting echelons by administering and maintaining MCS-L system operations.  • Installed, configured, operated, and maintained network equipment and software including administration of network messaging applications.  • Configured and maintained DNS Zones as well as reviewed and implemented security policies regarding email. Education B.S. in Computer Resources & Information Management in Computer Resources & Information Management Montgomery Community College - Meridian, MS 2006 Skills Bmc (Less than 1 year), Emc (Less than 1 year), Exchange (2 years), Help desk (7 years), Its (Less than 1 year), Microsoft windows (Less than 1 year), networking (7 years), operations (7 years), Remedy (Less than 1 year), Sms (Less than 1 year), Sql (Less than 1 year), Vmware (Less than 1 year), Windows 2000 (Less than 1 year), Windows 7 (Less than 1 year), Windows 8 (Less than 1 year), Windows server 2003 (7 years), Windows server 2008 (Less than 1 year), Windows server 2012 (Less than 1 year), Windows xp (Less than 1 year), System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: E5 Additional Information Core Competencies / Technical Proficiencies    • Hardware & Software Applications • IT Policies & Procedures • Troubleshooting / Support  • Project Coordination / Execution • Microsoft Operating Systems • Network System Performance  • Systems Configuration / Administration • Help Desk Operations • Networking Protocols    Software: Exchange 2003, Exchange 2007, SMS 2003, MOM, (CPOF) Command Post of the Future, SQL 2000, SQL 2005, SQL 2008, Adobe Connect, EMC Autostart Console 5.3, BMC Remedy, VmWare ESX, Tririga, (ITS) Integrated Tracking System, (FAST) Facilities Accountability Status Tracker, ProjectWise    Operating Systems: Windows 2000, Windows Server 2003 Enterprise Edition, Windows Server 2008 Enterprise Edition, Windows Server 2012 Enterprise Edition, Windows XP, Windows Vista, Windows 7, Windows 8