Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Auburn, WA Work Experience Systems Administrator Pacific Medical Center / Providence Hospitals - Seattle, WA 2012 to Present current  Provides healthcare and management services including adult medicine, midwifery, pediatrics, geriatrics, optometry, dentistry, pharmacy, compassionate use medication program, infectious disease clinic, medical social work and transportation.  Daily administration and support of a large IT infrastructure, including many regional facilities. Design, implement and support of all infrastructure components. Provide analysis for system and network administration for proactive correction and improvements. Exchange 2003/2010 hosted migration and 2010/2013 on-prem migration and CU upgrades. In the process of an Exchange 2013 to 2019 migration for a Department of Defense contract. *    Key highlights  • Executed direct support for more than 175 Windows Servers, four domain controllers, (2) Exchange servers, IIS servers, terminal services servers, and company-wide backup system for 10 facilities.  • Provided full documentation for complete server build procedures, resolve Infrastructure HelpDesk tickets.  • Equalized power grid and wiring for physical and virtual environment.  • Installed complete test environment VMWare virtualization system, including two Dell Equallogic SANs.  • Day-to-day Citrix Xen Server administration for 175 virtual servers, mostly Windows OS. Systems Engineer Getty Images 2011 to 2012 ENTERPRISE ENVIRONMENT- Built IBM 300, 3000 M2 servers, Dell R610, R710, R810 and HP Proliant series; Decommissioned servers for storage, including SAN recovery & QLogic cards. Teamed multiple sets of nics, Multiple RAID configuration, upgraded firmware for RSA, IDRAC and ILO; Coordinated server downtime and completed maintenance for VM, LINUX, SOLARIS and Windows 2003 and 2008 platforms. Researched and tested SNMP options for SCOM and Nagios monitoring. Diagnosed, ordered and installed all replacement server and switch hardware.    Key highlights  Moved, racked and cabled (fiber/copper) a 2000 server datacenter to multiple co-locations; Consultant ISOutsource 2010 to 2011 Provides high level technical support to more than 500 companies in the Greater Puget Sound and Portland, Oregon.  Consulting 500 local clients, regarding every technical facet of their business. Specializing in Windows products, Network Security, Backup and recovery, offsite storage, Antivirus protection and email migrations. Taking a proactive approach to implementing the "best practices" in the networking environment.  Key highlights  • Restored communications and network capabilities within 24 hours after a customer suffered a major power surge. This customer has more than 35 Windows servers, over 100 workstations/laptops, remote employees, multiple web sites.  • Full network assessments Senior Network Administrator Franklin Primary Health Center, Inc - Mobile, AL 2008 to 2010 Provides healthcare and management services including adult medicine, midwifery, pediatrics, geriatrics, optometry, dentistry, radiology, laboratory, pharmacy, compassionate use medication program, infectious disease clinic, HIV/AIDS treatment, medical social work and transportation.  Contracted to carry out the daily administration supporting a large IT infrastructure including hard facilities and a mobile unit. Directed and actualized design, implementation, and support of all infrastructure components and provided analysis and system metrics for proactive correction and improvements.  Key highlights  • Executed direct support for more than 250 WXP workstations, more than 100 printers, 20 Windows 2003 Servers, two domain controllers, IIS server, pharmacy, terminal services server, and a full DVR security system for 14 hospital centers. Second tier Nortel phone system maintenance.  • Managed a fully integrated mobile hospital unit and two remote locations with split tunnels. (Hyena/VNC remote support).  • Instructed undergraduates in our Computer Science intern program. Senior Network Administrator Southern Telecommunications - Mobile, AL 2005 to 2008 A leading provider of Business phone communications, surveillance systems and network consulting.    Served more than 350 clients as a technical solutions resource by executing project leadership, technology consulting, web development, data management, networking, software/hardware systems installation. Performed as primary technical support specialist for multiple extensive IT infrastructure companies including five local and national banking organizations, 11 law firms, four CPA firms, and various state and local government organizations.    Key highlights  • Identified operational malfunctions with new and existing product lines and created and integrated tailored solutions.  • Directed the activities of the entire Madison University IT restoration and recovery project set in motion by devastating lightning strikes. Delivered a complete IT system, software, and equipment restoration by converting the entire organization into a large VPN workgroup allowing for project initiatives as well as providing the University immediate 75% capacity.  • Managed an enterprise-wide geometric hand recognition time-keeping system Operations Manager McAleer Computers - Mobile, AL 2003 to 2005 Provides software applications to support the functions of the central business office, local schools, and food services.  Captained a technically adroit team of seven UNIX/COBOL and seven Windows/NEXTGEN support analysts, managed schedules, and executed on site technology inspections. Framed and sustained critical communications with cross functional areas, and facilitated regional client-training events.    Key highlights  • Carried out the internal cross training programs for 20 separate applications for more than 300 clients.  • Installed latest hardware technology within the school systems of the Southeast. Vice President of Information Systems Mesastaff - Mobile, AL 1998 to 2003 Providing small companies affordable medical/dental insurance, payroll systems and network communications.    Steered all aspects of enterprise operations including business development, bookkeeping, cash flow management, 24/7 IT solution delivery client support.    Key highlights  • Constructed a 105-pc, multi-server network providing a wide range of services to a broadly defined client base.  • Created an Ethernet hand-recognition ASP time and attendance product for 250 clients improving tracking, reporting and data retrieval.  • Saved more than $150,000 annually in labor savings, fines and settlements using MesaTime. Education Associate in Computer Science Tacoma Community College - Tacoma, WA September 1981 to June 1985 Skills System Admin, System Administrator, Active Directory, Vmware