Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Atlanta, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co - Social Circle, GA February 2016 to Present Install new / rebuild existing servers and configure hardware, peripherals, services, settings, directories, storage, etc. in accordance with corporate defined standards and operational requirements.    Provide Tier III/other support per request from various constituencies. Investigate and troubleshoot issues.    Repair and recover from hardware or software failures. Coordinate and communicate with impacted constituencies.    Perform daily backup operations, ensuring all required file systems and system data are successfully backed up to the appropriate media.    Provide support per request from various constituencies. Investigate and troubleshoot issues.    Repair and recover from hardware or software failures. Coordinate and communicate with impacted constituencies. Help Desk Tier 2 Technician Digital Technology Partners - Conyers, GA October 2011 to February 2016 Provided daily technical support to a client base of approximately 300 clients. Provide troubleshooting of all software, hardware, and mobile devices.  • Address complicated support issues that are escalated by team members, including server and workstation issues, as well as VoIP issues.  • Works in conjunction with management and help desk team to ensure organizational employees are working at optimal levels.  • Prepare department budgets and business plans and plans the hiring of new recruits.  • Create and maintain IT knowledgebase and appropriate documentation.  • Generate weekly and monthly reports on customer support issues.  • Provide remote technical support to remote users including office applications and connectivity issues.  • Install and troubleshoot hardware and various software applications utilized by office staff.  • Setup and configure servers and routers for new office deployments including creating and configuring new Active Directory domains and setting up and configuring on-site and remote backups.  • Administration of Microsoft Exchange Server and including creating/disabling user and group mailboxes.  • Administration of Active Directory including creating/disabling users.  • Administration of Microsoft 365 applications including email and Lync.  • Researches and recommends hardware and software solutions to clients to achieve technological goals. Help Desk Supervisor Angel Food Ministries - Monroe, GA June 2008 to September 2011 Supervised IT Help Desk staff and provided in depth telephone and desk-side support to PC and MAC users at the Head office employees, Tele-workers, and remote offices (Monroe Warehouse, Texas Warehouse, and Transportation Shop), Troubleshoot hardware, software, printers, and network connectivity issues; and managed help desk tickets.  • Administer and maintain Inter-Tel VOIP Telephone system for corporate employees  • Administration of Blackberry Exchange Server, including service pack and patch updates, adding/removing Blackberry users and troubleshooting issues related to the server and Blackberry handheld devices.  • Troubleshoot and resolve issues regarding Ingenico POS devices.  • Administration of Exchange Server 2007, including creating/disabling user and group mailboxes; managing Anti-Spam and troubleshooting various issues related to user accounts.  • Administration of the Active Directory users, including adding users to various organizational units and creating/disabling user access as needed.  • Provide technical support for the company-wide wireless infrastructure, including configuring and installing wireless switches (Motorola Wireless Controller) and access points.  • Maintain Kayako Help Desk Ticketing system, including adding users, providing various permission levels and providing troubleshooting solutions for users within the Knowledge Base.  • Test and Install patches and updates on company-wide domain controllers and application servers  • Provide support and training for all software and hardware products.  • Provide basic server maintenance as needed.  • Perform daily, weekly and incremental server backups utilizing Symantec Backup Exec and Iron Mountain LiveVault.  • Create and maintain IT knowledgebase and appropriate documentation. Telecommunications Analyst World Changers Ministries - Atlanta, GA April 2004 to June 2008 Promoted to direct the day-to-day operations of the Contact Center Telecom Desk while ensuring customer satisfaction and efficient operation.  • Provide operations coaching and development of all Contact Center employees, strategic planning, performance management, quality assurance, process improvement, training, and communication and coordination with other Ministry departments and outside vendors.  • Provide daily reports outlining contact center activity including call volume and agent performance.  • Monitoring phone queues and call volumes and making time management and skill set adjustments to ensure efficient flow of calls.  • Provide shift schedules and technical/desktop support to contact center representatives.  • Supervised telecom team and provided development and growth opportunities for telecom staff. Education Master's of Business Administration in Business Administration University of Phoenix December 2012 Bachelor of Science in Network and Communications Management DeVry University - Decatur, GA October 2003 Skills Active Directory, Desktop Support, Helpdesk Support, Service Desk, Tech Support, Help Desk Additional Information TECHNOLOGIES    • Microsoft Exchange Server 2007/365  • Symantec Backup Exec 12  • Windows XP/Vista/7/8 OS  • Microsoft Windows Server 2003/2008/2012  • Microsoft Active Directory  • Microsoft Office 2007/2010/2013/365  • Blackberry Exchange Server  • Project Management  • Cisco VPN  • Iron Mountain LiveVault  • Symantec Endpoint Protection  • Kronos Workforce Management  • Cisco PIX Firewall  • TeamViewer Remote Support  • Citrix Thin Clients/VDI  • Sonic Wall TZ Appliances  • Mac OS  • VoIP (Snom and 3CX)  • N-Able Remote Management