Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Boxy Charm Pompano Beach, FL https://www.linkedin.com/in/hector-andre-rivas/  To develop my career in IT in a company where I can use my skills and experience as a blended desktop environment engineer experience to bolster my professional development, and to provide exceptional customer service. I'm a dynamic IT professional with strong project management skills, with proven ability to direct large-scale development and support initiatives. Providing effective leadership in fast-paced, deadline driven environments, while leading and motivating teams. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Boxy Charm June 2019 to Present Responsible for all IT infrastructure management in 2 sites, deployment, monitoring, A/V, patch management to a hybrid environment including but not limited to: AWS EC2, Palo Alto Firewalls, Crowdstrike, Meraki Wireless, Netgear Switches, Onsite servers, Azure, Security Cameras, VOIP, A/V conferencing, AD, WSUS, O365, Okta SSO  ? Responsible for management, patching, package creation, OS and software management on Jamf Pro for Mac, and Intune for Windows, and MDM for all devices respectively, including iOS.  ? Building out Service Desk, including hiring, training, management of SD technicians, setting up ticketing systems (Jira/Confluence), best practices, and documentation.  ? Coordinated and managed third party vendors for project management in expansions, purchasing, budgeting, and also worked with stakeholders on process, timing, expectations, and updating.  ? Preparing company to switch from small-business IT to enterprise level in all IT infrastructure, including but not limited to AD cleanup, integrating Okta SSO, RADIUS, and network. IT Site Support Engineer III, Chewy Studios Chewy, Inc June 2016 to June 2019 Responsible for 2 major production studios (1 remote), including 300 employees, photo/video, pre/post production support, art, design, and marketing department. Designated liaison for all technology research, testing, and implementation for all Studio workflows. On-site IT support for all aspects of studio, broadcast, live webinars and streaming (internal/external). Managing DAM, MAM, render farm, and supporting software such as Adobe Premiere, Nuke Pro, Font management software.  ? Managed project of a Studio launch in DFW, from procurement, budgeting, server setups, VOIP telephony setup, stakeholder meetings, through completion. Interviewed, trained, hired 2 on-site 3rd level technicians, that reported directly to me.  ? Responsible for end-user support for all Mac OS and iOS devices including but not limited to: OS and software testing/deployment, MDM, hardware/software repairs, DeployStudio management.  ? Responsible for inventory management, purchasing, budget management, and vendor relations.  ? Established standard practices, writing technical directions, training and on-boarding new hires, and IT new hires.  ? Responsible for upgrading environment from Windows 8.1 to Windows 10, and end-user training.  ? Windows AD management, Office 365 administration, Okta SSO administration, User identity management, Cisco voice administration, JAMF administration, Apple DEP, ServiceNow/RemedyForce administration, SCCM administration.  ? Established vendor relationship with Apple, saving the company over $300k in purchases and support.  ? Set up/manage/maintaining EMC Isilon server with a 10gb fiber connection to end users, tape archive server, Dropbox Enterprise, along with other essential network server equipment. IT Service Desk Analyst, ACMT SANDOW April 2014 to June 2016 End-user support for SANDOW's 400+ employees, including multiple offices, and home-based employees, using Windows, Mac, and iOS devices.  ? Established a standard process using DeployStudio to create computer images to deploy to new hires, and current users.  ? Responsible for inventory management, purchasing, budget management, developing vendor relations, Apple GSX administration.  ? Responsible for IT on-boarding and training of all HQ office, and home-based new hires ensuring that they get acclimated to the technology systems, onsite and remote.  ? Establishing standard practices, writing technical directions, giving advice to business leaders in regard to process efficiency/streamlining.  ? Managing OS X, Windows, and iOS updates, and executing through multiple methods.  ? New user creation, user termination in Windows Active Directory. Office 365 administration.  ? Created a Self-Service Contract with Apple for SANDOW to do in-house repairs for any failed Apple hardware. Managed GSX admin portal, created repairs, part orders, and performed repairs according to Apple standards. IT Forensic Data Analyst Forensic Data Services December 2013 to April 2014 Examining digital media in a forensic manner with the aim of identifying, recovering, analyzing and presenting facts and opinions about the information.  ? Auditing large companies' technology inventories, including but not limited to: computers, servers, backup systems. Running search term analysis, scripts to parse for suspect identification through Windows Event, and Firewall Logs. Technical Service Desk Analyst Movietickets.com November 2013 to January 2014 Responsible for providing live, interactive telephone and email support to exhibitors, online customers, and internal teams.  ? Apply diagnostic aids in troubleshooting. Constantly monitor the state of the websites from a user perspective. Personal Banker Wells Fargo April 2013 to December 2013 Apple Inc September 2011 to April 2013 Genius Computers Lead Best Buy/Geek Squad August 2010 to September 2011 Sales Associate Macy's Inc November 2009 to June 2010 Education Palm Beach State College 2014 to 2016 Forest Hill Community High School 2006 to 2009 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/hector-andre-rivas