Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Atlanta, GA Seeking a challenging position in which I can utilize my technical and managerial skills to further personal and organizational goals as well as be a team player.  Broad-based competencies include:    Systems Administration  Leadership Networking   Supervising Project Management   Organization IT Security  Troubleshooting IT Training Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Georgia State Finance Investment Commission (GSFIC) - Atlanta, GA January 2017 to June 2019 • Duties encompass and are a continuation of the job description "Network PC Specialist", employed by the Georgia State Finance Investment Commission. Network PC Specialist Georgia State Finance Investment Commission (GSFIC) - Atlanta, GA May 2015 to December 2016 Essential duties include:    • Management of SOPHOS and SENTINEL 1 antimalware software through the use of client security console  • Network Printer Maintenance  • Microsoft Active Directory Computer and User Account Management  • Managing office support ticket request application using Kaseya Computer Management Software  • Remotely connecting to offsite machines for troubleshooting using Kaseya Computer Management Software, tested Manage Engine (placed on hold due to Division Merger)  • Providing technical support for computer audio/visual setups for conference rooms  • Managing Acronis Imaging Software for applying new computer images to various machines  • Configuring office Android tablets &phones as well as Apple Ipads&Iphones deploying them for office use.  • Moving all office devices and user accounts from former Domain network to new Domain network  • Reassigning network printer / scanner destination email accounts from former network email address to new email designation.  • Managing office refresh from old computer equipment to new computer equipment.    Accomplishments:  • Actively participated in network recovery project after network encryption RANSOMEWARE attack.  • Successfully participated in network security application recommendation committee.  • Redirected MS KMS OS and MS Office keys from old server to new server location.  • Repaired corrupted local MS user profile / created new MS Windows local user profile for existing Windows user account.  • Participated in conducting job interviews for Summer Interns.  • Successfully trained and supervised 3 interns and 1 temp employee.  • Researched approved large screen monitors for employee use.  • Installed SOPHOS and CARVIR SENTINEL antimalware security software for all office laptops and PCs.  • Successfully completed CMI core curriculum training courses as well as the entire "career path" training program for Systems Administrator. Help Desk Specialist West Tower - Atlanta, GA September 2007 to May 2015 19th Floor  Atlanta, Georgia 30334    Help Desk Specialist (Full time, 40hrs. per week)     Responsibilities: Assist in the daily operations of maintaining the Local Area Network for an office of approximately sixty employees.    Essential duties included:  • Security Management: Management of Symantec Antivirus server.  • Maintaining voice mail server.  • Installing, fixing, and reformatting individual desktops, laptops, and portable workstations.  • Troubleshooting various computer issues (VPN connectivity, virus alerts, and software / hardware failures).  • Management of computer equipment and printer ink procurement and inventory.  • IPhoneAirwatch Management Software (fixing, wiping, setting up accounts, creating policies and issuing IPhones).  • Management of Symantec Ghost Imaging Server 2.5.  • Issuing and setting up computer equipment for new employees to include instruction on the proper use of equipment.  • Management of inventory and property disposal of government surplus equipment.  • Management of Active Directory (Adding and removing users and computers to and from the Domain, as well as assigning users to groups and granting access rights to various folder locations).  • Adding and removing user email accounts to and from MS Exchange.    Accomplishments:  • Deconstructed, moved, and reconstructed servers into server racks at new location.  • Patched data cables in wiring closet to ensure telephone as well as internet connections.  • Upgraded office from Windows XP OS to Windows 7 Operating System.  • Backup Administration: Installed and configured Symantec Backup.exe for file backup and retrieval.  • Storage Administration: Devised a Case Storage File System on network for office use.  • Facilitated the migration of an old to a new print server (connecting network printers and plotters).  • Installed proxy server technology in computers and redirected web browsers through the proxy server.  • Implemented the use of additional web browsers with protective add-ons (i.e. Firefox with No-Script and Adblock add-ons).  • Installed host files for the entire office as a protective security and access measure.  • Training: Performed technical writing of instructions on the use of computer applications and the use of a blackberry in the form of a welcoming packet for new employees.  • Managed the inventory of computer equipment to be transferred from GBI to the Department of Law, which was signed off by the Attorney General, Deputy of Law.  • Served on committee to establish office policies and procedures.  • Received customer service award from GBI for providing an in-house computer solution to an issue that would have normally been outsourced, saving the office $10,000.00.  • Served on software recommendation committee. Technical Support Representative Childplus - Atlanta, GA August 2007 to August 2007 Data Center Specialist CNN - Atlanta, GA January 2007 to March 2007 Responsibilities: Serviced and maintained servers.    Essential duties included:  • Installed servers with Windows and Unix server operating systems.  • Installed CAT5, CAT6, KVM, and ILO cables for networking server systems.  • Traced network cables between machines in order to verify valid connections.  • Identified troubleshooting issues within printer networks and remedied them.  • Resolved locked-up server issues by power-cycling.  • Performed tape backups of data for disaster recovery.  • Verified PDU Panels and power strips which resulted in an up-to-date assessment of electricity usage and power fluctuations within the Data Center.  • Inventoried new CNN assets as well as verified existing ones to ensure data integrity.  • Prepared reports of new and existing assets for project planning.    Accomplishment:  Was able to remove and reinstall power strips while servers were running to ensure non-interruption of data processing. Technical Support Analyst Dendrite - Norcross, GA May 2006 to December 2006 Norcross, Georgia Contracted from 5/8/06 to 12/21/06  (Provides award-winning sales, marketing, clinical and compliance solutions to global pharmaceutical and other life science companies)    Technical Support Analyst  Responsibilities: Provided technical support for Novartis representatives enabling reps to schedule appointments, log customer information, and inventory prescription samples.    Essential duties included:    • Recorded and managed daily caseloads of incoming service requests.  • Resolved requests in a timely manner ensuring optimal productivity.  • Proactively suggested improvements to reduce callbacks and escalations.  • Facilitated transfer of technical and process-related information across different organizational platforms to ensure up-to-date caseloads.  • Created knowledge base of tools for future reference to limit callbacks from customers.  • Trained team members on new products.    Accomplishments:  • Effectively resolved problems which led to minimal escalations and callbacks.  • Received thank you letters from satisfied customers as a result of superior customer service.    TECHNOLOGY COMPETENCIES Education Bachelor's in Business Administration - Major: General Management Minor: Management Information Systems Oakland University - Rochester, MI May 2005 Skills System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory, Linux Additional Information TECHNOLOGY COMPETENCIES     ·        Microsoft Office 2003 - 2010; Word, Excel, Access, and Power Point  ·        SQL  ·        MS Visio  ·        Visual Basic  ·        Visual Studio.NET 2003 Professional  ·        ACT! Software (versions 6.x, 7.x, 8x)  ·        DBAN (Boot and Nuke)  ·        VERIZON Purchase and Account Management Console  ·        AIRWATCH mobile device control console  ·        Edge 5.0 Software  ·        Lotus Notes  ·        WEB and VPN connectivity  ·        General troubleshooting Windows XP, WIN7 & WIN 10 for laptops, desktops as well as Server 2003 & 2008  ·        WIN 10 configuration settings, including MS Windows Registry and Local Group Policy Settings  ·        Capable of conducting in depth, on line research to resolve PC issues  ·        Experienced in testing trail versions of software and submitting recommendations for office acquisition  ·        Completed training: Solaris 9   ·        Completed training: Microsoft A+ practices and procedures  ·        Completed training:  Installing and Configuring Microsoft Server 2012  ·        Completed training: CMI Core Curriculum  ·        Completed training: CMI Career Path Curriculum:  Systems Administrator           LANGUAGES     • Fluent in German   