Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - SmartSand Tomah, WI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator SmartSand - Oakdale, WI September 2018 to Present • Server support at main plant utilizing VSphere.  • Active Directory user and group security.  • Plant wide Digital Watchdog security camera system support and maintenance.  • Cyber Security Incident Response committee participant.  • SAGE accounting system user security and support.  • Office 365 administration for four SmartSand locations.  • Remote office support utilizing ZoHo remote desktop.  • FortiClient VPN access 6.0.  • ESET endpoint security.  • Nextiva Polycom IP phone system support. Systems Administrator Weir Minerals - Madison, WI May 2018 to September 2019 • VMWare server support 5.5  • Network level 2 and 3 support using Microsoft Service Manager ticketing system.  • Manage server security and account group management, access rights and permissions using Active Directory.  • SolarWinds NPM 12.1 installation and server support.  • License server maintenance on AutoCAD and MasterCAM for Engineering.  • Lotus Notes Administration - company wide.  • End user support. Systems Administrator Ocean Spray, Inc - Tomah, WI September 2007 to May 2018 Systems Administrator - one direct report.    • Converted 25 Windows Physical server environment to VMWare.  • Responsible for VMWare 25 server environment using Vsphere 6.0.  • Directly responsible for yearly 300K IT budget.  • Guidance to Senior Leadership team on all IT Initiatives.  • Project Management including O365 upgrade from Office 2010 and phone system upgrade to CISCO VoIP.  • Installed Camera Security System in Plant, Receiving Station and Office area.  • Installed Aruba POE wireless system to office and plant.  • Support of company Plant and Office 200 user network.  • Tomah Receiving Station network support.  • E-Time/ADP payroll software and End User support.    Network Support Patrick Cudahy Incorporated - Milwaukee, WI November 2006 to September 2007 • Supplied ADP payroll support.  • Provided server support of 20 servers including server patches and security updates.  • Supported plant equipment including Zebra printers and production scales.  • Supported of PCI legacy system, Innatrack - Plant operations. CSC/Network Analyst Waukesha Memorial Hospital - Waukesha, WI April 2006 to November 2006 • Supported hospital end user community including remote clinic access to resolve application and hardware issues with HP Openview support.  • Supported Windows based servers including updates and patches.  • Provided user account management, passwords, access codes, email access, and group policies.  • Supported of remote application access for Hospital staff using Citrix Metaframe client with a RSA SecurID device.  • Upgraded PC Desktop hardware/software.  • Upgrades of laptops and HP Printers.  • Updated of existing documentation to reflect system changes. Network Administrator Catholic Family Life Insurance - Milwaukee, WI August 2004 to April 2006 • Upgraded main servers in Milwaukee and New England to Windows 2k server from Novell 6.0and Novell 5.1.  • Support of company base laptops and desktops with Windows 98 and Windows XP including PC and laptop upgrades. Senior Computer Engineer Marshall & Swift/Boeckh - New Berlin, WI October 1997 to June 2004 • Developed and maintained security of a 36-file server network. Used NDS for Novell and Domain security for the Windows server environment.  • Responsible for Server and PC upgrades for Microsoft and Novell. Upgraded Novell 3.1 to Novell 5.1.  • Upgraded Compaq desktops from Windows 98 to Windows XP and Office XP.  • Converted Marshall & Swift/Boeckh from cc: Mail to Microsoft Exchange 5.5 and Outlook 98. Upgraded to Microsoft Exchange from cc: Mail using Microsoft upgrade and conversion tools.    Network Services St. Mary's Hospital - Milwaukee, WI December 1991 to October 1997 Education MIS Carroll College - Waukesha, WI Skills CISCO, VMWARE, VPN, ADP, WIRELESS, System Administrator, Active Directory, System Admin Additional Information Areas of Knowledge    Systems: Windows 2003/2008/2012 Server, SCCM 2016, VMWare, and Vsphere 6.0, Windows 10 Desktop.  Software: Microsoft O365, Office 2016, ADP Payroll, Cisco VPN, and Symantec AV  Hardware: HP Proliant servers, Proliant and Neatgear Switches, HP & Lenovo laptops, and Aruba/HP Wireless.