Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - AECOM Work Experience Systems Administrator AECOM - Las Vegas, NV October 2017 to Present • Assists with configuration, monitoring, troubleshooting, analysis and repair of Server systems (including SQL), Disaster Recovery Systems switches, networks, and virtual systems.  • Lead projects including the design, installation and administration of new systems using multiple protocols and various computer systems.  • Writes problem reports, assists with root cause analysis and recommendations for configuration and process changes.  • Procured printers and ADPE devices utilizing AFWAY, and other USAF Logistic systems.  • Provides users with technical support by responding to IT helpdesk issues.  • Maintain cross platform inter-connectivity for network services, authentication services, E-mail services and Web services.  • Worked with users on gathering requirements, creating project timelines, and easy to follow documentation. Technical Support Analyst Tier 3 TESLA, INC - Las Vegas, NV June 2014 to October 2017 • Provided level 1st & 2nd level technical assistance in analyzing, diagnosing, replicating and troubleshooting customers reported issues to resolution on Microsoft Windows 7, Windows 8, and Windows 10 OS.  • Managed support incidents and maintained up-to-date status in the Multiple Ticketing Systems Console - Escalated unresolved issues that require more in-depth knowledge in a timely manner.  • Trained new employees on basic computer, Wi-Fi, and cell phone features & functionality  • Created reproducible test cases, when necessary, for customer reported issues. Reported and submitted product defects in the bug tracking system. Created new knowledgebase articles and keep them up-to-date. Provided after business hour support on a rotation basis.  • Worked with Salesforce Administration, and integration with 3rd party plugins.  • Exchange 365 and On-premise Engineer. Assisted with migration between two systems and user account creation  • Imaged and configured new PC equipment for deployment (MS MDT, SCCM).  • Released the deployment of hardware and software to Tesla employees. Network Support Engineer BEAR DATA SOLUTIONS - Las Vegas, NV June 2012 to May 2014 • Planned, implemented and identified resource and bandwidth requirements for network devices and connections.  • Identified, evaluated, and assisted staff in the selection of hardware, software, and services to meet specifications and requirements.  • Maintained local area network (LAN) and wireless local area network (WLAN), configuration and ongoing field service.  • Conducted site surveys and on-site assessments and prepares schematic diagrams for recommended and efficient installations. Developed and maintained network documentation.  • Monitored protocol compatibility, performs system tuning, and made recommendations for improvement.  • Planned and oversaw the implementation of system installations to ensure network connectivity.  • Implemented new data collection routines as needed (mcache tables, routing tables, etc).  • Supplied on-demand results for queries involving code-version, boot-image, mfg/model roster sizes, etc.  • Familiarity with NMS applications, tools, and concepts and MIBs/SNMP configuration.  • Assembled and updated documentation in the form of ticketing.  • Performed troubleshooting to further isolate problems in support of restoring customer's network to original configuration.  • Coordinated with network service providers (ISP's, Carriers etc.) to resolve outages.  • Provided local technical support as required.  • Served as support for internal company MIS operations as needed.  • Experienced with VMware, Cisco, and Solarwind products and services.  • Experienced with Ethernet network design, maintenance, installation and repair.  • Knowledge of installation, troubleshooting and repair, and training methods related to personal computer systems.  • Broad knowledge of principles of network security, network protocols and IP administration.  • Basic security knowledge including setting up access lists, crypto management, and wireless and internal security best practices. Customer Care Agent TELUS INTERNATIONAL - Las Vegas, NV November 2011 to June 2012 • Review and resolve customer billing inquiries and concerns.  • Provide step-by-step instructions to callers to resolve application issues.  • Aid customers in troubleshooting technical issues with their phone, internet and television services. Letter Carrier UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE - Las Vegas, NV December 2007 to November 2011 • Handled and delivered mail and packages throughout the Las Vegas, NV area.  • Processed package through tracking services (such as delivery confirmation and certified mail) ensuring excellent attention to detail.  • Provided customer service daily to consumers and businesses to help increase in the utilization of USPS products for their needs. Education Master of Information Systems Management in Network Management KELLER GRADUATE SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT - Las Vegas, NV December 2014 Bachelors of Science in Business Management in Business Management UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX - Las Vegas, NV July 2010 Skills Active Directory (Less than 1 year), Cabling (Less than 1 year), Exchange (3 years), VMware (2 years), wireless (2 years), System Administrator, System Admin Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/nicholaswrobertson Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: e-4