Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Utilant, LLC Depew, NY To obtain a position that utilizes my technical and analytical abilities, where I can contribute to my employer's success as well as grow professionally and personally. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Utilant, LLC October 2018 to Present • Deploy and manage client-facing application servers.  • Automate patch and software deployments using PDQ Inventory & PDQ Deploy.  • Deploy and managed customer web applications between global data centers.  • Develop server-wide standards for Group Policy Objects and Security.  • Create documentation for implemented systems and policies. Desktop Administrator Utilant, LLC November 2017 to October 2018 • Deployed and manage employee workstations and network equipment.  • Developed company image standard for Windows 10 installations.  • Created and implemented company-wide standards for Dell laptop configuration. Network Technician Kaleida Health - Buffalo, NY June 2015 to November 2017 • Supported users' computer and network equipment on a daily basis at various Kaleida sites.  • Mentored installation technician team members during all phases of the move from Women & Children's  • Hospital of Buffalo to the John R. Oishei Children's Hospital.  • Decommissioned Women & Children's Hospital of Buffalo and its outpatient clinics.  • Worked with the installation technician team to set up clinics at the Conventus Building for Kaleida and University of Buffalo. Systems Analyst II Kaleida Health January 2013 to June 2015 • Used Remedy to track issues with Cerner Electronic Medical Records system.  • Worked closely with Cerner to identify and resolve end user issues.  • Suggested update packages to management to address common end user concerns.  • Assisted with major upgrades and deployments for the Electronic Medical Records system. Network Analyst II Kaleida Health - Buffalo, NY July 2009 to January 2013 • Decommissioned Millard Fillmore Gates Circle Hospital in preparation for the creation of Gates Vascular Institute.  • Worked closely with end users to make the transition from one building to another successful.  • Guided users through the transition from Windows XP to Windows 7 on hospital equipment.  • Installed VOIP phone systems and computer terminals for Gates Vascular Institute.  • Set up computers, printers, scanners, and other peripheral equipment in Gates Vascular Institute.  • Provided support to staff after Gates Vascular Institute officially opened. Education Associate in Computer Information Systems Erie Community College - Amherts, NY September 2006 Skills Desktop Support (9 years), Active Directory (2 years), Help Desk, Tech Support, Service Desk, PDQ Inventory (2 years), PDQ Deploy (2 years), Windows Server 2012 R2 (2 years), Windows Server 2019 (Less than 1 year), VOIP (9 years), VMware (2 years), Windows Server 2008 R2 (2 years), System Administrator, System Admin, Linux Administrator, Linux Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ September 2018 to September 2021 Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate In Progress CompTIA Server+ Certification In progress Additional Information • Resourceful troubleshooter and problem solver.  • Enjoys working in a dynamic environment.  • Effective communicator.  • Works well in a collaborative environment, but equally motivated when working alone.  • Excellent customer service skills.