Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network and Systems Engineer Boston, MA Seeking a position with growth potential. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Boston Water and Sewer Commission - Boston, MA August 2019 to Present Responsible for effective provisioning, installation/configuration, operation, and maintenance of systems hardware and software and related infrastructure.    Essential Functions:    (The essential functions or duties listed below are intended only as illustrations of the various types of work that may be performed. The omission of specific statements of duties does not exclude them from the position if the work is similar, related or a logical assignment to the position.)  • Manages all company operating systems and associated software.  • Manages all communications and connections including workstation connectivity, Local Area Networks (LAN) company website, intranet, and Internet applications.  • Ensures the integrity and security of enterprise data on host computers, multiple databases, and during data transfer in accordance with business needs and industry best-practices regarding privacy, security, and regulatory compliance.  • Performs and tests routine system backups and restores, monitors existing backups.  • Manages and performs periodic recovery testing of DR plans.  • Analyzes system, server, application, network, and input/output device performance.  • Monitors VMware environment. Makes necessary changes as needed to improve functionality and performance.  • Responds to SysAid tickets when assigned. Resolves issues promptly and efficiently.  • Troubleshoots System issues as they arise daily.  • Conducts research on new products, services, protocols, services, and standards in support Operating Systems software procurement end development efforts.  • Implements new IT software or hardware.  • Manages end-user accounts, permissions, access rights, and storage allocations in accordance with best-practices regarding privacy, security, and regulatory compliance.  • Performs software application maintenance on assigned mission critical systems.  • Installs new/rebuilt existing servers and configures hardware, peripherals, services, settings, directories, storage, etc., in accordance with standards and project/operational requirements.  • Maintains daily performance of computer systems.  • Maintains access controls for user accounts, updates levels of access.  • Updates antivirus controls to keep the network safe. Monitors and runs reports for continual monitoring.  • Installs, modifies, and repairs computer hardware and software.  • Maintains mobile devices through a mobile device manager.    Performs similar or related work as required, directed or as situation dictates    Knowledge: Knowledge of complex IT protocol and procedures, working knowledge of computers and computer systems, MS Office applications, Azure DevOps, Dynamics 365, working knowledge of departmental policies and procedures, strong aptitude to learn and implement new procedures.    Ability: Ability to communicate effectively and tactfully with customers, composes correspondence, prioritizes and complete multiple tasks at one time with frequent interruptions, must be able to operate a computer with intermediate skills when using software programs, manages databases and other software as required by the position, ability to maintain and create spreadsheets and records, ability to use telephone system.    Skill: Excellent communication skills both written and verbal, strong customer service skills, strong organizational skills, skills in all of the above listed tools and equipment. VOLUNTEER ESWA - DORCHESTER, MA March 2010 to Present Part-time volunteer  • Help on literature table,  • Raising money for community aid,  • activity staff. Network Manager(Network and Systems Admin) Braintree Public Schools - Braintree, MA November 2014 to August 2019 Responsibilities:  Responsible for technical aspects and implementation of IT office infrastructure.  Setup and adjust network specifications and policies based on users request, feedback and recommended security standards;  Analyze workflow, access, information, and security aspects of all network equipment, server infrastructure, and cloud-based services;  Router, switches and firewall administration, including but not limited to interface configuration, policies and routing protocols;  Evaluate and troubleshoot network performance issues;  Responsible for installation, configuration, and testing of all server and network equipment;  Provide recommendations for upgrades and improvements;  Define network policies and procedures;  Escalate problems to vendors if required;  Establish network access, monitoring, and control;  Maintain documentation of all aspects of the Network and Systems;  Responsible for server administration tasks including user account and file permission maintenance, group policy, and development of logical and documented file structure;  Responsible for information systems security support within the organization, including the monitoring of endpoint protection and performing anti-virus/malware software updates.  Act as escalation point for resolving day-day hardware and software issues when helpdesk tech can not help/absent.  Point of reference for purchasing of all technical equipment including, laptops/desktops, servers, storage media, servers, cabling, printers.  Administer Active Directory, DNS, and Cloud hosted services.  Network Administration, including LAN/WAN architectures, Network Design, and implementation  Setup and Management of VMware infrastructure(ESXi hosts and clusters);  Setup and maintenance of Veeam Backup;  Manage ShoreTel VOIP phone infrastructure;  Manage and Maintain all aspects of G Suite for Education;  SAN and NAS management;  IMC setup and management;  SCCM setup and management;  Setup and management of Surveyor Server;  Setup and management of Online testing cache servers(MCAS and WIDA);  Manage Wireless infrastructure for the district (11 locations) - Ruckus Wireless;    Accomplishments  Redesigned the whole Network  Manage implementation of ShoreTel VOIP and Ruckus Wireless  Participate as a member of the leadership team and assist with the execution of the architecture, telecommunications, networks, media and hardware.  Lead strategic technological planning to achieve agency goals by prioritizing technology initiatives and coordinating the evaluation, deployment, and management of current and future technologies.  Collaborate with the superintendent's office to develop and maintain a technology plan for the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education that supports District's needs.  Develop and communicate technology plans to the school’s Leadership Team.  Maintain and develop systems to support district technology and curriculum needs.    Skills Used  Network Management and maintenance, Windows 7/8, Windows Servers 2008/2012/2016 and MCSE Certification on the making;  Problem-solving, strategic planning, multi-tasking, and understanding of new and emerging technologies;  Effective interpersonal and phone communication, listening, problem identification/resolution, customer management, and teamwork skills;  Working knowledge of SharePoint Foundations 2010/2013, concepts, Google Apps for Education and Office 365  Experience in technology-based environments, Windows Server and Windows Networking and Apple Systems  Project Management Experience  Working knowledge of K-12 and Municipalities  Strong Interpersonal skills and ability to lead a team environment  Strong technical skills and ability to lead in a team environment  Strong technical skills involving proficiency with a variety of software and hardware as related to the school environment Part-time Tech/On Call Contract Miles Technologies/GBS Group - New Jersey May 2016 to May 2018 On call tech support for multiple clients but mainly AMTRAK in Boston Network Systems Engineer READING PUBLIC SCHOOLS - Reading, MA September 2011 to December 2014 Troubleshooting Workstations  • Manage Servers including Virtual Servers  • Windows Deployment Service  • SmartBoard Expertise  • Networking Troubleshooting (Printers, Group Policy, Wireless, Windows Deployment Services )  • Apple Products Deployment and Management  Responsibilities:  • Implementing, managing, and supporting the district's server infrastructure.  • Administration of dedicated servers, switches, desktops, wireless laptops and backup system.  • Assisting students & staff in elementary, middle and high schools to enhance learning through improved integration of technology.  • Enrichment and support of teaching and learning while strengthening the technology skills of students and staff.  • Assisting classroom teachers in the incorporation of technological hardware and software into the lesson plan.  • Plan, configure, manage and upgrades all server-related hardware and software in a multi-platform environment that includes Microsoft Windows, Linux/UNIX( basic) and Macintosh systems. Manages active directory, DNS, DHCP, file and print services, and other server systems.  • Plan for and discuss strategies to address server replacement and enhancements and to accommodate new applications, systems, and resource requirements.  • Manage and ensure security and integrity of the server rooms in collaboration with the Director of Technology.  • Deploy and utilize tools for server health monitoring, intrusion detection and prevention, and performance and access management.  • Manage active directory. Assist in developing and maintaining account creation and de-activation procedures.  • Anticipate, mitigate, diagnose, troubleshoot, resolve hardware/software problems and issues related to servers, and other resources.  • Coordinate planned server down time and upgrades typically during off-hours to minimize impact on academic programs and administrative operations.  • Communicate security, accessibility, and utilization of policies & procedures.  • Setup user accounts, permissions and passwords.  • Inventory IT equipment.  • Perform other duties as required Network Administrator TOWN OF BOXBOROUGH/SCHOOL - Boxborough, MA October 2012 to January 2014 In charge of the whole Network/Network Administration:  -Managed and led the School District Regionalization Process up to the end of employment.  -Manage and support all technology related tasks for all Town Departments (Police, Fire, DPW, Library, Town Hall, Schools, Elderly Center)  Troubleshooting Workstations  • Manage Servers including Virtual Servers  • Windows Deployment Service  • Smart Board Expertise  • Arc GIS, Fundsense, Munis, Cisco VOIP, Cisco Switches and ASA firewall  • Networking Troubleshooting (Printers, Group Policy, Wireless, Windows Deployment Services )  • Apple Products Deployment and Management  RESPONSIBILITIES  • Ensure the smooth running of the school networks and network hardware.  • Ensure that all faults and problems are quickly rectified and the school's virus protection system is adhered to.  • Give in-class support to teaching staff  • Support the Student Information System (SIS)  • Ensure all staff and pupil access to the Internet is timely and appropriate, and maintain the firewall protection for the school.  • Develop and maintain the IT equipment inventory, so as to provide a detailed analysis of equipment replacement needs and central IT resourcing to the Director of Technology.  • Carry out the installation and configuration of all new computers and related hardware (printers, etc.)  • Ensure that equipment is maintained and repaired as necessary.  • Ensure that all data backups are run as scheduled, and that the policy for off-site storage is adhered to.  • Create new user accounts, and maintain the file and email servers. Shipping and Receiving Clerk M.F. Foley - Boston, MA August 2010 to September 2011 Worked @ the "PIT" on Packing depart.  • Receive order during the day as it comes in • Processes all the paperwork for shipping depart.  • Keep track of stock QC/QA Hans Kissle, inc - Haverhill, MA April 2010 to August 2010 Supervising employees on production duties, cooling and cleaning.  • Track shelf life of new products. CNC Operator NIHIL OBSTAT, sa March 2008 to January 2010 Supervised employees in manufacturing and production of furniture  • Decorations;  • Consulted clients about home and business renovations;  • Worked in sales;  • Machine programming Accountant/ Customer Service/ Receptionist Kafar, Lda June 2006 to February 2008 Supervised payroll,  • Budgeting, and accounting;  • Administrative duties Education Bachelor's in Information Technology NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY - Boston, MA September 2018 to December 2021 Certificate in Cisco ccna BHCC - Boston, MA January 2015 to June 2017 Associate in Network Administration Bunker Hill Community College - Boston, MA January 2015 to May 2017 Certificate in Network Communications and Information Systems Lincoln Technical Institute - Somerville, MA June 2010 to December 2011 Accounting and Administration-Completed only 2 years of a Bachelor degree in Accounting Sup. Inst. of Economic Science and Business, (ISCEE) - Cape Verde - Praia 2008 to 2010 Skills Cisco (7 years), PMP, Wlan, WAN, System Administrator (10+ years), Active Directory, Linux, SCCM, Redhat, HP Networking (9 years), Vmware, Linux Administrator, System Admin Assessments Customer Service Skills — Highly Proficient October 2018 Measures a candidate's skill in evaluating approaches to customer service & satisfaction. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/tlo5eabxyqp51pya Problem Solving — Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/sl6durxwh-28haox Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information ACQUIRED SKILLS    Hardware  • Personal Computer configuration, troubleshooting and upgrades.  Network  • TCP/IP protocol stack  • Installation, configuration & administration of DHCP and DNS  • Network Troubleshooting at all 7 layers of the network.  • 802.3 Ethernet connectivity devices such as switches, routers and NICs  • 802.11a/b/g/n routers and NICs  Software  Operating Systems and Services  • Windows XP, VISTA, Windows 7 and Windows Server 2003 and 2008.  • Active Directory Administration  • Installation and configuration of Microsoft Office 2003/2007/2010,  • Ability to manage user rights, Share and NTFS permissions    _Sup. Inst. of Economic Science and Business, (ISCEE) - Cape Verde October 2008- March 2010  Accounting and Administration-Completed only 2 years of a Bachelor degree  • Studied Financial Accounting,  • Introductory Law,  • Mathematics, English,  • Statistics, Social Sciences,  • Economics,  • Computer Systems Information.    "Amor de Deus" High School Santiago, Cape Verde September 2000- June 2006  Graduated with high honors - concentration in economy.