Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Network Engineer Rochester, NY Experienced, energetic Information Technology professional, excellent troubleshooting skills Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator RJM Media - Rochester, NY October 2017 to Present • Ensure high availability of all critical Web and database servers by use of monitoring and support tools.  • Migrate systems to new hosting platforms as necessary.  • Perform upgrades, backups, software installations.  • Serve as primary point of contact for 3rd party technology integrations. Senior Network Engineer Empower FCU - Syracuse, NY June 2013 to October 2017 Responsible for the network and server infrastructure. Ensure high  availability of all critical systems and network infrastructure by use of monitoring and support tools. This included SolarWinds APM (SAM) and NPM.  • Worked closely with the Information Security department to patch server and network equipment.  • Participation in and oversight of the daily upkeep and administration of the companies' network infrastructure and computer systems.  • Responsible for the design, planning, implementation and maintenance of the credit union's network infrastructure and architecture.  • Windows Server systems maintenance, upgrades and reliability. Microsoft Terminal Server / Citrix Presentation Server implementation and administration. Troubleshoot complex hardware and software problems as identified. Network Engineer Five Star Bank - Warsaw, NY January 2011 to June 2013 Responsible for the network and server infrastructure. Ensure high  availability of all critical systems and network infrastructure by use of monitoring and support tools. This included SolarWinds APM (SAM) and NPM.  • In charge of adding new servers to the APM system as well as setting correct thresholds.  • Ensure a high level of security and performance controls. This included responding to any and all ARP alerts. I was the first person to discover we were under an attack that turned out to be a penetration test. Within 20 minutes we were able to shutdown and locate the company conducting the penetration test.  • P2Ved over 50 mission critical servers with the least amount of down time as possible. Most of these upgrades where completed off hours. To limit the affect on our banking customers.  • Preformed daily, weekly and monthly backups of all systems using Syncsort Backup Exec. Daily and weekly backup were stored local on a NetApp appliance for 35 days then off loaded to an off site DR location. Monthly backup were copied to tape which were store in a secure off site location. Network Administrator ElderWood Senior Care - Williamsville, NY June 2006 to January 2012 • Monitored 20 Citrix server spread out across 4 virtual servers  • Administer Active Directory with approximately 3000 users spread across 22 locations.  • Identified and corrected a large number of system and network deficiencies. Correcting these deficiencies resulted in increased stability and performance, a 99.9% uptime and a 35% increase in customer satisfaction surveys.  • Led initiatives to upgrade and implement network and data security, disaster recovery capabilities, data protection, and systems management automation in order to reduce business risk and increase efficiencies.  • Assisted with the implementation of a 7/24/365 support structure including automated system outage notification, a ticketing system for efficient problem management; escalation protocols and user-communication procedures.  • Performed capacity analysis and planning in preparation for hardware and software procurement. Developed and executed project plans with consideration for minimal interruption of service, proper testing, documentation, training and user  perception and adoption.  • Worked with vendors to complete network upgrades as well as hardware and software upgrades. Lead System Administrator Shatter I.T - Buffalo, NY February 2003 to June 2006 • Setup and configured NAGIOS Monitoring system. Adapting it to the specific need for the company  • Worked with Co-location Company to build out new datacenter. This included insuring each cabinet had correct cooling and power distribution. Each cabinet was designed to have their own separate switch with multiple VLANs.  • Each VLAN was separated for Production, Development and backup networks. This allowed for the backup process to run without affecting production traffic.  • Built and configured company wide VOIP system using Asterisk open source VOIP system. This included having configured multiple SIP adapters that were located at various home offices.  • Operated and maintained networking, telecommunication, and computer hardware systems  • Monitored system reports and trouble logs and took action as necessary  • Performed Linux system administration tasks and user administration Desktop Technician Chek.com - Buffalo, NY November 2000 to December 2002 • Daily BackOffice system administration of desk top PC and printers  • Installing operating system on new PC's  • Trouble shooting Problems on desktop PC  • Networking PC and Printers on company LAN  • Wrote Polices on approved and supported software  • Replaced various internal components on PC Network Operations Assistant /Network Engineer Frontier Global Center - Herndon, VA January 1998 to November 1999 • Provisioned all new servers that were installed in to our Datacenter.  • Ensured all servers had correct cooling and power requirements.  • While at Global Center we handled 8.8 billion pages views per month translating into 1.8 billion hits per day and 1.26 million hits per minute, while delivering up to a quarter million software downloads a day for customers.  • Global Center counted the world's top web sites among its customers including Yahoo!, The Motley Fool, Electronic Arts, Quote.com, News Alert, Pacific Bell at Hand, Salon Magazine, USA TODAY Education Niagara County Community College - Sanborn, NY Skills CITRIX (9 years), LINUX (3 years), CISCO (Less than 1 year), HYPER-V (Less than 1 year), SRM (Less than 1 year) Links http://mjmarriagegmail.com Additional Information Technical Skills  • Hyper-V  • VMware  • VMware SRM  • Linux  • Cisco Switches    • Windows servers 2003 - 2016  • Windows 7  • Windows 10  • Citrix