Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Bonneville Communications Lehi, UT I am looking for an opportunity to grow professionally and personally within an organization, and help implement strategic, cost effective, IT. Work Experience Systems Administrator Bonneville Communications 2015 to Present Manage the IT environment for 1400+ users in multiple markets (DEN, PHX, SEA, SLC, SAC, and SFO).  ? Manage Active Directory, GPO, Exchange, and many other environments.  ? Upgrade critical software, including in-place production upgrades of Exchange from 2003, 2007, 2010, and 2013 for thousands of users. (Currently working on Office 365 migration).  ? VXRail Design and Implementation (in progress)  ? Manage the HP 3PAR SAN and Synology SAN over multiple, redundant, 10 Gig connections.  ? Manage, implement, and update multiple critical SQL servers.  ? Manage VMWare/VSphere/VCenter/ESXI/Horizon/VMView solution for the entire company.  ? Implemented an internal secure cloud using Novell Filr  ? Designed, engineered, implemented, and currently manage the corporate backup solution for all bonneville markets (Dell Rapid Recovery). This includes over 150 TB of critical data, multi-market off-site replication, and a multi-market disaster recovery solution, that spans multiple scenarios.  ? Maintain the company networks, this includes the 10 gigabit backbone systems, 10Gbit/1Gbit Dell managed switches, Cisco Firewalls, and enterprise level wireless (Meraki); all over multiple subnets.  ? Implemented a multi-server sharepoint 2013 array (5 nodes). Systems Engineer, Pearson School Interoperability Framework 2010 to 2015 Design, Implement, and streamline SIF (School Interoperability Framework) solutions  ? Update, Migrate, and Deploy servers; including: AD, Exchange, and SQL  ? Created and assisted in the maintenance of more than 600,000 Active Directory accounts for both staff and students in multiple countries  ? Troubleshoot SQL, XML, and System Services  ? Troubleshoot SSL connections and generate secure solutions  ? Created understandable documentation, highlighting the data and object flow of our products  ? Automate account creation in Active directory, MS Exchange, SQL, and other systems, using the SIF standard  ? Tier 3 support lead for the states of Utah, Virginia, Wyoming, and California Technical Project Manager for 25 school districts nationwide System Support, skywest airlines inc 2006 to 2010 Troubleshoot and resolve hardware and software issues  ? Diagnose, isolate, and repair server and database issues  ? Document and repair system failures in a timely manner to minimize company downtime Education Music Dixie State College 2004 to 2006 technology Western Governors University Skills Active Directory, Linux, System Admin, Vmware, System Administrator, Linux Administrator Additional Information ? Over 18 years of experience in the Information Technology field, 11 of those in high volume, secure, corporate environments  ? Proficient in many server environments including Windows and Linux  ? Proficient in Microsoft Server products, including: Active Directory, Exchange, GPO, IIS, SQL, and many more  ? Proficient in multiple backup solutions that include disaster recovery strategies  ? Excellent PC troubleshooting skills  ? SSL certificate experience  ? NAS and SAN experience  ? PowerShell, BASH, and Scripting