Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Cee Kay Supply, Inc St. Louis, MO Dedicated IT professional with over seven years of professional experience and CASP, ITIL,  Server+, Network+, A+, and ACSP certifications. Ability to form creative and effective solutions to  improve functionality and performance as well as strong project planning and management skills. Work Experience Systems Administrator Cee Kay Supply, Inc December 2015 to Present Solely responsible for all IT infrastructure, departmental, and directional needs  ? Responsible for budgeting, project management, procurement, and vendor management  in regards to IT and building security  ? Responsible for all IT and security needs of 100+ users across 10 locations and multiple  sister companies  ? Managed multiple large scale IT projects including Office 365 migration, security  camera system upgrades, new building construction, new location stand ups, and more  ? Member of Crisis Management/Disaster recovery team  ? Server maintenance, upgrades, repairs (Dell)  ? Network maintenance, upgrades, repairs (Cisco Meraki, HP, Fortinet)  ? Firewall, Exchange, Anti-Virus, Spam filter maintenance, upgrades, repairs  ? Maintain and deploy mobile devices  ? Support and configure physical security systems at all locations  ? Support and configure security camera systems at all locations  ? Desktop and printer support, upgrades, repairs (Dell, HP, Ricoh, Xerox)  ? Phone system support (Inter-tel/Mitel PBX) Desktop Support Technician Saint Louis Science Center January 2012 to December 2015 Server support for IBM systems  ? Laptop support for Apple, Dell, IBM/Lenovo, and HP systems  ? Desktop support for Dell, Lenovo, and Apple systems  ? Printer support for HP, Canon, and Epson (laser and inkjet)  ? Phone support for mobile devices (iPhone/Android), PBX, and VOIP system  ? Created and manage FOG server for cloning and streamlining new machine deployment  ? Build and deploy new systems utilizing FOG imaging and print server  ? Provide technical support for 100+ users at 2 locations  ? Migrate users from XP to 7  ? Perform backups and data recovery  ? Provide instruction and guidance for Desktop Support Assistant Special Exhibitions Assistant Supervisor Saint Louis Science Center - St. Louis, MO 2010 to 2012 Supervise daily operation of exhibits  ? Schedule and coordinate staff  ? Maintain appearance and functionality of exhibits and flight simulator Self Employed Private Consulting 2009 to 2012 Set up SOHO networks, both wired and wireless (Linksys, Cisco, Netgear  routers/switches)  ? Repair laptops and desktops (Dell, HP, Lenovo, Toshiba)  ? Build custom systems from parts  ? Provide instruction on how to operate various mobile devices, printers, and software Grounds Crew Lindenwood University 2007 to 2011 Manage groups of workers (3-5 people) Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems Lindenwood University May 2011 Bishop DuBourg High School 2007 Skills Android, Active directory, Dns, Exchange, Networking, Dhcp, Ios, Linux, Ms office, Ms office 2003, Office 2003, Windows server 2003, Windows xp, Telephone, Pos, Pos systems, System Admin, System Administrator Certifications/Licenses ITIL October 2018 to Present ITIL Foundation CompTIA CASP June 2018 to June 2021 CompTIA Advanced Security Practitioner Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY    Technical Experience  ? Windows XP, Vista, 7, 10, MS Office 2003, 2007, 2010, 2013, 2016, 365  ? Windows Server 2003, 2008, 2012, HyperV, Exchange  ? Active Directory, SCCM, DNS, DHCP, Group Policy  ? Apple OSX, iOS, Android, Linux (RedHat, Ubuntu, Fedora, Mint, CentOS)    Support Experience  ? Operated as a system administrator responsible for all security, networking, hardware,  software, and telephone repair and installations  ? Migrated mission-critical systems to new solutions without impacting business operation  ? Managed issues both remotely via phone or remote connection as well as in person  ? Troubleshoot any issues for business systems as well as public facing and POS systems