Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Fitchburg, MA Work Experience Systems Administrator Once Upon A Tile - Fitchburg, MA May 2015 to July 2018 • Implemented a low-cost networked storage and backup system to preserve and secure company data.  • Managed and maintained customer and financial information databases.  • Handled general maintenance, virus protection & removal, and disaster recovery.  • Upgraded and maintained networking, server, and workstation hardware for improved productivity. Help Desk Technician City of Fitchburg, Information Technology Department - Fitchburg, MA July 2013 to February 2014 • Supported users in various departments and locations that experienced various hardware and software issues.  • Assisted in the transition from a Windows XP software environment to the Windows 7 environment in multiple  departments and locations.  • Assisted in the upgrade of the wireless network located at the public library utilizing SonicWall-based infrastructure.  • Assisted in the deployment of a Cisco-based wireless network to the Fitchburg Police Department, as well as the deployment of a VOIP phone system and the consolidation of their wired network infrastructure.  • Expanded wireless connectivity, using Cisco wireless access points for the interim City Hall building, providing both employees and guests wireless access.  • Maintained the city website, repairing or replacing broken pages, updating content, and updated outdated or broken  hyperlinks. Student Help Desk Technician Fitchburg High School, Information Technology Department - Fitchburg, MA January 2008 to June 2010 • Supported faculty, staff, and students who experienced technical issues with hardware and software.  • Experienced in operating remotely utilizing Windows Remote Desktop or Teamviewer to solve issues for off-site  locations.  • Implemented a Linux-based and a virtualized operating systems solutions for aging computer labs under budget.  • Deployed and upgraded workstations, replacing outdated Windows 95 and 98 computers, as well as aging server  architecture with Ubuntu and Windows 7 based workstations.    PROFICIENCIES  • Lite-Touch Deployment • Microsoft Office Suite, • Exceptionally Proficient in Services Outlook, and Teams Windows (incl. Server), OS X,  • Hyper-V • AccessData's Forensic Toolkit iOS, and Android  • VMware • Symantec Ghost • SonicWall Systems  • Prog. Languages: Python, • Cisco Networking • Active Directory  Java, C, C#, C++ Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems Fitchburg State University - Fitchburg, MA 2016 to Present Associate of Science in Computer Systems Engineering Technology in Forensics Quinsigamond Community College - Worcester, MA 2016 Skills Linux, System Admin, Vmware, Active Directory, Information Technology, Help Desk, Comptia, Desktop Support, It Specialist