Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Network Design Associates Sacramento, CA Work Experience Systems Administrator Network Design Associates - Citrus Heights, CA January 2019 to Present Manage Services Provider company supporting over 50 clients from user to admin level issues  Directly supporting directors and executive level staff  Maintain backup and restore/recovery from clients Servers using Barracuda Networks  Supporting O365 for most clients, Exchange Admin backend support IT Technical Manager Oakwood School - Morgan Hill, CA January 2018 to January 2019 Manage IT Department in an educational environment and Team Leader  Oversee, direct and support all activities and personnel responsible for school's information systems  Maintain helpdesk ticketing system to ensure timely resolution to faculty  Evaluate IT best practices, processes and solutions and recommend areas of improvement  Supporting Windows environment including Windows 7/8/10 DevOps/Network Administrator Anritsu Corporation - Morgan Hill, CA October 2014 to January 2018 Administration over 20 VM's running on Windows Server and Ubuntu LTS  Asset management to comply with Finance records on all Server and licenses  Daily and weekly routine to monitor any failed drives on Physical Servers in Data Center  Providing Engineering Development support to over 250 Engineers  Supporting Jira administration 250 Users  Supporting GitLab administration 120 Users  Providing 1st level support to over 1000 end users at 8 Anritsu location offices  Performing imaging/re-imaging laptops/desktops over PXE Boot, including backing up/restore data  Providing support via Phone/Email/Lync  Processing Off-Boarding/On-Boarding process of users  Administration of all network floating license using FlexLM  Supporting Windows environment including Windows 7/8/10 Lead IT Support Specialist Citrix Systems - Santa Clara, CA October 2013 to August 2014 Deployed to Citrix Systems, Inc, supporting Santa Clara Office to over 900 users  Working one on one with users that come to My IT Support Central IT Store  Providing direct support for all VP and Directors  Imaging laptops for users and backing up data Desktop Support Engineer ASSIA - Redwood City, CA December 2012 to August 2013 Supported over 150 users world-wide.  Installing new images and creating images for laptops and development machines.  Providing all computer and phone related issues on a daily basis.  Worked with all venders from purchasing to RMA'ing equipment. Deployment Engineer Tru Technical Partners - Campbell, CA January 2012 to December 2012 Provided onsite desktop support and on-going mission critical projects.  Provided phone and email support to customers using remote desktop pc-anywhere.  Documenting all technical documentation and posting information to company's knowledge base.  Imaging new laptops for all new-hires including all proprietary software to each department. Manager Internet Business November 2004 to November 2011 Started own traveling website.  Managed over a dozen employees with scheduling and daily functions.  Installed and configured all computer related structure to launch TNGflights.  Configured ISP for wireless setup to over dozen laptops and desktops.  Created punch down connections for clients to contact TNGflights. Customer Support Specialist Aspect Communications - San Jose, CA March 2000 to August 2004 Provided first level contact for Premier Account, U.K and EMEA Stream International sites and attended weekly conference calls for direct input on all open cases and new implementations.  Provided first level support to Customer Operations Engineers (COE) in the field and Customer Support Specialists within the North America Customer Support Centers & Europe.  Extensive knowledge with Call Centers running on Windows NT operating systems and UNIX operating systems.  Troubleshooting expertise in Call Center software and hardware problems pertaining to applications, configurations, and platforms.  Assist with customer implementations on various products (CTI, Predictive Dialer, IVR, etc.)  Work with Technical Support Specialist team on investigating, reproducing and fixing issues.  Working knowledge with Oracle and Informix databases.  Working knowledge of Aspect reporting and real-time products.  Provided one-on-one training for new Customer Support Specialists.    Aspect Awards:  - Received Support Specialist award.  - Received Rookie of the Year award for Outstanding Customer Support.  - Numerous accommodations from customers and internal Aspect employees. Skills Mentor graphics, Active directory, Cisco, Iis, Remedy Additional Information Technical Skills:    Software: G Suite, Office O365, Jira Software, Jenkins, TestRail, SolidWorks, Mentor Graphics suites Pads/DxDesigner, Windows 7/8/8.1/10, Office 2010, 2013, Lync 2013, SharePoint VmWare, MacBook Pro, MacBook Air, Active Directory, Clarify, Remedy, SalesForce, Sharepoint, Reflections, Real VNC, Teamviewer, RDC, PCAnyware, NetOps, Bomgar. MS Office, MS IIS, McAfee, Norton, Plus, SSL VPN, Cisco VPN Client, Symantec Soft Token, Palo Alto Global Protect, Crystal Reports, Oracle SQL, SQL-Plus, PL/SQL, ODBC.  Development Tools: JIRA, TestRail, QA-Complete, Code-Collaborator, SCM Manager, Serena Version Manager, GitLab EE, Jenkins CI  Hardware: Dell, and IBM PCs and Rackmount Servers, NMS Telephony Cards, T1 Interface Cards, Fax Boards, DSP Boards, Network Interface Cards, Graphics Cards, Sound Cards, SCSI Adapters, Internal and External Modems.  Protocols: TCP/IP, NETBIOS, IPX/SPX.  Telecommunications: CTI, Network Connectivity, OSI Model, Ethernet, Virtual Memory, Operating System Processes. IP-IVR, IP-PBX, ASR, TTS, and Softphone. Shoretel and Shoretel Communicator.  Avaya, Avaya One X Communicator