Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> San Antonio, TX Highly dedicated student seeking career opportunities. Exceptional listening skills to meet the needs and desires of the position at hand. Handles tasks with accuracy and efficiency. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator 3Sixty Integrated - San Antonio, TX October 2018 to Present Programming Surveillance Cameras and Integrating them onto the customers vms software.  -Onssi Software  Programming/Testing/Maintaining Access Control System  -Brivo, Open Options, AI Phone  Program/Manage Cisco 2960x switches Sub Contractor N/A - San Antonio, TX July 2017 to Present (Sub-Contractor)   Installed and Configured Wall Boards/Tablets (Outcome Health)  Mounted and Configured TV's   Media Players   Digital Menu Boards  Installed/Programmed Burg Systems (Ademco/Dmp)  Service/Install/Program Access Control (Brivo) (Honeywell)  Installed/Configured cctv cameras analog/ip (Hikvision) Security / Fire / Access Alarm Technician Maxcom Fire & Security - San Antonio, TX October 2016 to July 2017 Ran/dressed wires per plans   Geo Vision Camera installs (Ip)   Installed Mag locks, Door strikes, Card Readers/Keypads, Door contacts, Ceiling Speakers   Set-up and installed Secutron Fire Alarm Panels (2100/2200/2308)  Installed and configured gate operators Sales Representatives, Services, All Other Rent-A-Center - San Antonio, TX January 2016 to October 2016 • Communicate with customers by telephone or in person to provide information about products or services, take or enter orders, cancel accounts, or obtain details of complaints.  • Inventory or examine merchandise to identify items to be reordered or replenished.  • Compile, sort and verify the accuracy of data before it is entered.  • Determine charges for services requested, collect deposits or payments, or arrange for billing.  • Use computers for various applications, such as database management and word processing.  • Answer telephones and give information to callers, take messages and transfer calls to appropriate individuals. Fire Alarm Technician, Voice & Data Center Tech MCS Security/Skelton Fire Alarm/Tyco - San Antonio, TX November 2013 to December 2015 • Install, maintain, or repair security systems, alarm devices, or related equipment, following blueprints of electrical layouts and building plans.  • Test backup batteries, sirens, and all security features to ensure proper functioning, and to diagnose malfunctions.  • Mount and fasten control panels, door and window contacts, sensors, video cameras, adjusted and configured  • Feed cables through access holes, roof spaces, and cavity walls to reach fixture outlets then position and terminate cables, wires and strapping  •Setup racks, run fiber,cat6,label wires, terminate 48port rack mount patch panel Education AA in Computer Administration Northwest Vista College - San Antonio, TX 2015 to Present High School Diploma William H. Taft High School - San Antonio, TX 2015 Skills Customer Service (3 years), Qualified Manager Certifications/Licenses OSHA 10 March 2016 to Present Construction Safety and Health Boom/Scissor Lift December 2015 to December 2018 Forklift Certified January 2018 to January 2021 Alarm Systems Installer April 2018 to February 2020 Security License Electronic Access Control Device Installer April 2018 to February 2020 Access Control License Brivo OnAir Certification Present Open Options Certification January 2019 to January 2022 Fusion Essentials Software ONSSI Certification (VMS) January 2019 to January 2022 CFOT Certified Fiber Optic Technician July 2019 to Present Groups The National Society Of Leadership & Success (NSLS) January 2017 to Present National Honors Society Additional Information Working towards NICET (Security)certifications!