Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Knox, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Venango Newspapers - Oil City, PA June 2003 to Present Maintain all aspects of the computer system from network functionality, to client / server repair and upgrades, backup and security.     • Create streamlined processes using Windows and Linux scripts, as well as Perl, and Python programs to automate tasks, manage secure access and improve reliability.  • Maintain proper backup procedures and roll-over to backups in an emergency situation.  • Support 50 + employees in two locations with Hardware and Software.   • On call from 6AM to 2AM Sunday through Friday.   • Support third party niche software for newspaper production.   • Manage TheDerrick.com & TheClarionnews.com via newspaper website vendor TownNews.  • Created and manage VenangoExtra.com and ClarionExtra.com using Word-press.   • Supervise Pre-press and Social Media employees.  • Backup Clamp-Truck driver.     Daily Functions continually expose me to the following computer technologies:   ssh, iptables, samba, rsync, DOS command Prompt, linux and windows scripting, perl (optiperl, activestate, imageMagick, ftp, cgi-lib, CGI & client side scripts), python (json, numpy, pandas, matplotlib, keras, anaconda, pycharm, ftp), x2go, NoMachine, Jupyter, Windows 7 through Windows 10, Fedora, CentOS, RAID, Clonezilla, Authorize.net, AdMax / Layout / Cpag / Scoop (newspaper specific software ) Owner/Operator NWPA Backwoods - Knox, PA April 2015 to July 2018 Created wine tables and other wine products and sold them via Etsy.com     • Manufactured and shipped over 400 wine tables and etched glasses from my home.   • Marketed online using Facebook, Pinterest, Twitter and paid Marketing via Etsy and Google.   • Created many highly customized tables using a variety of tools, including computer numerically controlled engraving.   • Engraved wine glasses and beer mugs with custom designs using sand blasting equipment.   • Continuously improved processes with the aim to produce more products of better quality with faster turn around times. Education Certificate in Deep Learning Coursera October 2018 to December 2018 Certificate in Machine Learning Coursera May 2018 to August 2018 Nearly Completed in Computer Systems Support Technician Dubois Business College - Oil City, PA 2000 to 2003 Skills Linux, System Admin, Linux Administrator, Python, Perl, Bash Scripting, DOS, Numpy, Pandas, Machine Learning, Networking, System Administrator Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ukgbivz6vverpwtk Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/kajdjfmetannn6sm Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.