Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Network Engineer-Software Engineer-Quality Assurance-Web Developer-Manager Catonsville, MD A highly dedicated and capable professional with more than 10 years of extensive knowledge & experience in Information systems management, SQL server and database management, Quality Assurance, web/software/application development, and IT support is seeking a full-time position to support organizational and career growth through excellent service.  ? Experienced in Integration, Functional, System, Validation, System and Regression Testing.  ? Possess exceptional written and verbal communication skills ? Ability to collaborate with testers, developers and other team members in testing complex projects ? Good organizational skills with the ability to track and prioritize numerous simultaneous tasks.  ? Highly analytical and results focused with proficient knowledge in Systems administration, Project management, telecommunication, system analysis and designing and relational database concepts.  ? Proficient in a range of computer systems, languages, tools and testing methodologies.  ? Extensive Hardware and software Installation and maintenance experience.  ? Broad experience in 24x7 on-call production support with direct client liaison. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator CoreLogic - Rockville, MD August 2017 to Present Administer day to day operations and communicate to improve the IT system infrastructure.  ? Analyze strategic planning process & concentrate mostly on improvement of quality of projects.  ? Gather, utilize and motivate teams to resolve complex technical problems and improve process.  ? Plan, deploy and maintain the IT systems such as Windows servers, Hyper-V, VMware, Exchange servers,  Active Directory, and Office 365.  ? Configure DNS and DHCP servers.  ? Manage support services for the virtualization technologies such as Hyper-V.  ? Establish network users and install security for the networks.  ? Develop SQL queries to create and manage database tables.  ? Manage the Active Directory to build and update user network profiles and reset passwords.  ? Troubleshoot network, internet\intranet and wireless network connectivity issues.  ? Develop backup and recovery procedures and disaster recovery plans ? Configure Outlook and map the shared drives to the local users ? Assist Help Desk support in providing PC and Mobile support, diagnosing, troubleshooting and resolving client issues with hardware maintenance, installations and upgrades. Chief Financial/Information Officer/Managing Director A.A.A.A. Inc., 40 Gulf Inc., Unique Services Inc., HSA Inc June 1998 to October 2018 Multiple Locations, MD  Liberty Road Services Inc., Iffat Inc. t/a Dollar Party ? Worked at and responsible for multiple locations: Route 40 Amoco/Ellicott City U-Haul, Addison Road Shell,  Woodbourne Mobil/Citgo/BP, Russell Street Amoco/BP, Gulf ? Processed and Analyzed daily gross sales of approximately $5,000-$20,000+(per location) ? Monitored and controlled inventory of gasoline, supplies, and retail merchandise ? Resolved customer complaints, grievances, and conflicts ? Trained, assisted, and supervised employees ? Service manager for Auto repairs ? Analyzed and maintained accounts payable and receivable ? Assisted in Accounting/Records Department (developed a new system of daily, monthly, quarterly, and yearly reports to monitor and forecast sales, expenses, and profit) ? Set-up and installed new equipment (computers, printers, scanners, routers, modems, network switches and other electronics) and all necessary software ? Developed, managed and maintained petroleum and computer equipment, software, and computer network ? Operated and programmed different operating systems to custom specifications (Mac OS, Windows (XP-10),  Verifone Ruby, Gilbarco G-site, Wayne Nucleus) ? Inventory Management ?POS programming and Management ? Daily and Monthly Reconciliation ?Hiring Training new employees ? Accounting, Payroll, Taxes ?Accounts Receivables/Accounts Payable ? Manage Vendors/Suppliers ?Manage Security operations ? Manage cell phone sales, activations, and repairs QA Analyst Rockwell Collins - Annapolis, MD July 2016 to July 2017 Analyzing the project requirements and user stories for the creation of Test Scenarios and Test Cases for project iterations.  ? Manual Testing was done to perform functional testing on the user interface and managed with Enterprise  Architect.  ? Analyzed the end to end functionality testing the application manually.  ? Performed back-end testing by writing and executing SQL Queries.  ? Identify and report defects and manage defect tracking and reports in ClearQuest.  ? Involved in the User Story reviews with the Business Analysts.  ? Involved in executing SQL Queries and compared the results with front end screens.  ? Responsible for running the Smoke Test Suite in Development, QA and Production Environments and then performing Ad Hoc testing on the application to ensure that the basic functionality of the application is not broken with the new build releases.  ? Analyzed reports, tracking system bugs and assisted with ongoing improvement efforts related to QA Tracked defects from initiation to completion while working with developers to respond to complaints and initiate remedy process.  ? Write Integration test cases based off of XML code.  ? Applies Procedures and Methods related to the RCI/Business Unit Quality Management System.  ? Ensures compliance of RCI/Business Unit products and processes.  ? Maintains a working relationship with key customer procurement organizations to the benefit of the customer and Rockwell Collins.  ? Ensures Rockwell Collins and supplier products shipped to customers meet applicable business unit and contractual requirements.  ? Administers material review activities on Rockwell Collins and/or supplier products.  ? Conducts an effective evaluation and audit program for Rockwell Collins or its supply base to ensure conformance to Rockwell Collins process and product requirements.  ? Utilizes lean or six sigma tools to evaluate Rockwell Collins or supplier products and processes. Analyzes root causes of deficiencies and ensures proper corrective actions are implemented in a timely manner. Participates in cross-functional team efforts to improve Rockwell Collins or supplier products and processes. Network Engineer Mars Supermarket, Inc - Rosedale, MD December 2014 to July 2016 Setup/Installed, configured, and maintained CISCO routers and switches ? Disaster Recovery ? Implementation and monitoring of Intrusion Detection System ? Similar responsibilities as previous employment Network Engineer Spektrum K12 - Towson, MD October 2011 to November 2014 Established networking environment by designing system configuration; directing system installation; defining, documenting, and enforcing system standards.  ? Secured network system by establishing and enforcing policies; defining and monitoring access.  ? Accomplished information systems and organization mission by carefully implementing networking methodologies.  ? Reported network operational status by gathering and prioritizing information from the projects.  ? Ensured all network standards are aligned with business objectives.  ? Engaged in implementing IT security policies.  ? Collaborated with professionals to ensure inspection, testing and other quality control measures are scheduled and documented.  ? Setup, configured, and maintained remote applications Webmaster/Computer Programmer State of Maryland, Department of Human Resources - Baltimore, MD March 2007 to March 2011 Baltimore, MD ? Developed, maintained, and updated web pages and web applications for DHR's Internet website: www.dhr.state.md.us (more than 5,000 web pages receiving over 8 million monthly hits) ? Developed, maintained, and updated web pages and web applications for DHR's Intranet service for employees: DHRNet (the DHRNet website is a .NET platform based site consisting of more than 9,000 web pages receiving over 3.5 million hits per month from DHR employees) ? Developed the contents of web pages and edited existing documents into the appropriate format for internet and intranet presentations ? Created and refined graphics for web pages ? Created directories on web sites and uploaded web files to correct directory locations using FTP (file transfer protocol) or other server management or file transfer methods ? Managed vendors who provide public website hosting services (IBM, New Jersey) ? Managed agency domain name registration and servers ? Developed, maintained, and updated websites for other State organizations such as the Maryland Charity  Campaign, Maryland Commission for Women, Governor's Commissions on Asian Pacific American Affairs,  Hispanic Affairs, Indian Affairs, and Migratory and Seasonal Farm Labor. Real Estate Salesperson/Representative Long & Foster - Ellicott City, MD July 2006 to 2007 Real Estate transaction management ? Coordinate negotiations ? Contract management for residential and commercial sales and leases Education Baltimore City Community College - Baltimore, MD July 2018 to December 2018 Computer Engineering Coursework Community College of Baltimore - Catonsville, MD June 2007 to September 2016 Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering University of Maryland - Baltimore, MD 2007 to 2008 Skills Linux, System Administrator, System Admin, Vmware, Active Directory Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified September 2018 to September 2021 • Taught how to assemble computer components based on CompTIA Standards in a variety of technical environments  • Learned to identify structure and function of Computer Networking, and its security and forensics  • Gained knowledge of tools and software to perform troubleshooting procedures for different types of technical situations Network+ Certification September 2018 to September 2021 • Design and implement functional networks  • Configure, manage, and maintain essential network devices  • Use devices such as switches and routers to segment network traffic and create resilient networks  • Identify benefits and drawbacks of existing network configurations  • Implement network security, standards, and protocols  • Troubleshoot network problems  • Support the creation of virtual networks Additional Information MANAGEMENT AND TECHNICAL SKILLS ?Superb customer service and guest relations skills ?Excellent problem solving capabilities ?Cooperative team member/player ?Detail oriented and Results driven: Focused! ?Software/applications and Business Management Specialist ?Physical, Chemical, Biological, Mathematical, and Ethical foundations of Engineering ?Infrastructure Security ?Risk assessment ?Staff/team awareness and training ?Identity management ?Data Security ?Frontend and backend (full stack) DevOps experience ?Website Design, Development, Implementation, and Maintenance ?Application development, maintenance, and security ?Expert/Proficient in Microsoft Windows (95-10), Mac OS, Linux, iOS, Android ?Maryland Real Estate Salesperson/Representative (2006) ?A+ Certification (Valid until September 2, 2021) ?Network+ Certification (Valid until September 30, 2021) ?Currently and actively pursuing Security+, CCNA, AWS and MCSA Certifications ?Experienced programming skills ?  Python ?  SQL/mySQL ?  Selenium/Selenium WebDriver ?  Visual Basic ?  PHP ?  Oracle ?  HTML/XML/Flash ?  Linux/Unix ?  MS SQL Server 2000-2017 ?  C/C++/C# ?  Apache Tomcat ?  Agile-Scrum Methodology ?  Java/JavaScript/J2EE ?  CISCO ?  Microsoft Office Suite ?  Maven ?  Spring Boot ?  Adobe Photoshop, Dreamweaver, Acrobat ?  BootStrap ?  QA ?  SharePoint ?  ASP ?  .NET ?  ClearQuest ?  PowerShell