Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Lone Tree, CO Skilled IT Professional with over 15 years of experience in all aspects of support, administration, and troubleshooting; working extensively with XP, 7, 8, 10, Server 2003/2008/2012/2016, VMware, Citrix XenApp/XenDesktop/Receiver, VisionApp, Hyper-V, Exchange, Active Directory. Experienced in supporting multiple small to large businesses, as well as corporate executives with day-to-day technology needs. Providing professional customer service with the ability of being able to explain technical issues in laymen's terms and exceed the client's expectations. Work Experience Systems Administrator Christy Sports - Lakewood, CO January 2019 to April 2019 • Windows Server Update Services (WSUS) – Deployed Windows Server 2016 on VMWare ESXi 6.7, installed and configured WSUS. Created Group Policy Objects for main and downstream WSUS servers based on Geographical location. Complete restructure of Active Directory based on a Geographical Model, including separate Regions for retail stores and corporate headquarters.  • Veeam Backup & Replication 9.5 – Configured Veeam to backup VMWare Virtual Servers, including local Backup Copies to onsite and offsite NAS.  • Research and Planning for new server roll out to all Retail Stores. Including Domain Controllers, WSUS Downstream Servers, Veeam Backup, iLO, ESXi, Read Only Domain Controllers, DNS, etc.  • Cisco Meraki Firewall – Intrusion Prevention, Intrusion Detection, DHCP, VLANs, Mesh Network, VPN.  • Multifaceted systems administrator, responding to incoming service desk inquiries, calls and emails.  • Install new / rebuild workstations, servers, networking equipment, phones, and audio/video equipment; configure hardware, peripherals, services, settings, directories, storage, etc. in accordance with standards.  • Perform daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware, server resources, systems and key processes, reviewing system and application logs, and verifying completion of scheduled jobs such as backups.  • Creation, deletion, and maintenance of user accounts, mailboxes, distribution lists, groups. Infrastructure Specialist NetEnrich - Addison, TX June 2017 to April 2018 • Manage resolution of critical incidents impacting customer business.  • Identify and resolve repeated issues in customer infrastructure.  • Point of contact for escalations and maintain relationship with Partners/Customers.  • Weekly and monthly reviews with Partners.  • Drive CSAT/NPS with Partners/Customers.  • Collaborating with Partner/Customer and offshore delivery team.  • Multifaceted systems administrator, responding to incoming service desk inquiries, calls and emails.  • Train coworkers on proprietary company software, policies and procedures.  • Create documentation on company policies and procedures.  • Supporting Microsoft Server, Networking (Cisco, Juniper), Virtualization (VMware and Hyper-V), storage (EMC, DELL).  • Supporting value added resellers (VARs), managed service providers and enterprise technology providers. Systems Administrator Courtroom Sciences, Inc - Irving, TX September 2016 to March 2017 • Multifaceted systems administrator, responding to incoming service desk inquiries, calls and emails.  • Install new / rebuild workstations, servers, networking equipment, phones, and audio/video equipment; configure hardware, peripherals, services, settings, directories, storage, etc. in accordance with standards.  • Perform daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware, server resources, systems and key processes, reviewing system and application logs, and verifying completion of scheduled jobs such as backups.  • Creation, deletion, and maintenance of user accounts, mailboxes, distribution lists, groups and all associated security parameters  • Maintain data center environmental and monitoring equipment.  • Firewall configuration/administration.  • Microsoft Hyper-V Server administration, load balancing, performance monitoring and setup.  • Policies and procedures creation and documentation.  • Monthly technical training classes provided to users.  • Shoretel VOIP server/client/phone administration  • Supporting Windows Server, Exchange Server, Office 365, MS Azure, SQL server, Active Directory, IIS, WSUS, DHCP, DNS, Dell switches, Hyper-V, ShoreTel, printers, high speed scanners, OCR, AV equipment, Video Conferencing and proprietary software.  • NAS/RAID configuration and administration.  • Sage/Timberline Administration. Including Server and Desktop installation, updates and configuration. Sr. Service Desk Professional/ Systems Admin D+H - Irving, TX May 2014 to September 2016 • Multifaceted systems administrator, responding to incoming service desk inquiries, calls and emails.  • Managed day-to-day responsibilities of the helpdesk, directly supporting over 90 banks and credit unions.  • Coached newly hired personnel with technical, customer service and personal objectives.  • Remote support via phone, email and remote login software.  • Summarizing and posting jobs in CRM with relevant information to complete the work order.  • Active Directory, Exchange Server, file server and custom software administration.  • Software researching, testing, configuring and implementing with client environments.  • Provided after hours support and engaged in all optional projects  • Supporting our Cloud environment through VMware vSphere, Citrix XenApp, XenDesktop, Citrix Receiver and Visionapp.  • Citrix Delivery Services Console\XenApp server and application administration\troubleshooting.  • Server master image configuration, administration and testing.  • LAN, WAN, VPN, MPLS connection configuration and administration.  • Local and cloud firewall administration.  • Spam, encryption, data backup and recovery administration  • Knowledgebase creation and revision. Helpdesk Technician/ Systems Admin T.G. Mercer - Willow Park, TX January 2012 to April 2014 • Managed day-to-day responsibilities of the helpdesk, directly supporting over 200 individuals.  • Remote support via phone, email and remote login software.  • Summarizing and posting jobs in Help Desk with relevant information to complete the work order.  • Maintained inventory on all software and hardware.  • Designed and implemented solutions to increase daily productivity and reduce annual IT costs.  • Active Directory, Exchange Server, file server and custom software administration.  • Hardware and software researching, testing, configuring and implementing with custom software.  • Trained new users on using their hardware and software, created user manuals with instructions on how to use software and hardware.  • Providing after hours support on a rotational basis.  • Sage/Timberline Administration. Including Server and Desktop installation, updates and configuration. (Temp) IT Consultant/ Systems Admin Computer CPR - Southlake, TX May 2011 to October 2011 • Onsite and in-house support.  • Remote support via phone, email and remote login software.  • Supporting home users, small business peer-to-peer networks, as well as corporate client/server configurations. Diagnostics repairs and upgrades.  • Design, assemble and configure custom systems.  • Managed and delegated incoming workload between multiple technicians.  • NAS/RAID configuration and administration. Systems Admin DFW IT Pro - Grapevine, TX August 2010 to February 2011 • Support Tech for DFW and surrounding cities.  • Implementing and maintaining server virtualization with VMware esx4.1 and Windows Server 2003/2008. Summarizing and posting jobs in Help Desk with relevant information to complete the work order.  • Provide support in-house or via phone, email and remote support software.  • Perform diagnostics, repairs and upgrades.  • Design, assemble and configure custom systems.  • NAS/RAID configuration and administration. (Temp) IT Consultant/ Systems Admin Computer CPR - Southlake, TX February 2010 to August 2010 • Onsite and in-house support.  • Remote support via phone, email and remote login software.  • Supporting home users, small business peer-to-peer networks, as well as corporate client/server configurations. Diagnostics repairs and upgrades.  • Design, assemble and configure custom systems.  • Managed and delegated incoming workload between multiple technicians.  • NAS/RAID configuration and administration. IT Manager Intricate, Inc - Dallas, TX November 2009 to February 2010 • Managed day to day responsibilities of the helpdesk, directly supporting over 90 individuals through phone, email, and ticketing system.  • Scheduled and maintained a monthly timeline for supporting individuals within the organization.  • Maintained strict inventory on all software and hardware.  • Designed and implemented solutions to increase daily productivity and reduce annual IT costs. (Temp) IT Consultant/ Systems Admin Computer CPR - Southlake, TX March 2008 to October 2009 • Onsite and in-house support.  • Remote support via phone, email and remote login software.  • Supporting home users, small business peer-to-peer networks, as well as corporate client/server configurations.  • Perform diagnostics, repairs and upgrades.  • Design, assemble and configure custom systems.  • NAS/RAID configuration and administration. Consultant HSI Telecommunications, TLC Computer Care and Bell 2003 to 2003 Education Associate in Computer Networking and Information Technology High-Tech Institute - Phoenix, AZ June 2001 to September 2002 High School Diploma Highland High School - Gilbert, AZ June 2000 Skills System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory, System Admin Assessments Technical Support — Expert April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/7qjjjm549xg8ptqh Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.