Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Smartronix, Inc California, MD Work Experience Systems Administrator Smartronix, Inc - River, MD, US February 2018 to Present • Patch and maintain systems at the OS and Application level  • Complete vulnerability scans with the use of ACAS SecurityCenter  • Maintain and properly configure systems in accordance with DISA STIG checks  • Troubleshoot software and application issues  • Troubleshoot connectivity issues from server to server  • Monitor system logs with use of SIEM tools  • Monitor and correct server health  • Troubleshoot server and application outages  • Create system snapshots with use of VMWare  • Perform upgrades and migrations  • Provide processes and procedures as needed for projects or daily tasks  • Perform account configurations in Microsoft Active Directory  • Perform Service/ System restarts as needed  • Provide information needed such as logs or server health reports  • Install and upgrade applications  • Configure applications in SUSE Linux Enterprise and Windows OS Jr. Systems Administrator Sabre Systems, Inc - River, MD, US October 2017 to February 2018 • Performed system patching  • Monitored ticketing system queue and routed as needed  • Performed account resets in Microsoft Active Directory  • Created system snapshots in vSphere  • Performed DISA STIG Checklist as needed with Accreditations  • Transported backup tapes in/out of backup system and building  • Monitored building security  • Cleaned system drives  • Scanned system for non-compliant files and removed them as needed General Manager Aaron's, Inc - Waldorf, MD March 2015 to October 2017 • Refreshed in house and customer PC's.  • Patched and updated PC's as needed.  • Completed Anti-Virus scans regularly.  • Troubleshoot computers, televisions, Blu-ray players, stereos and other products with customers by phone or going to customer locations.  • Repaired and refreshed mobile devices.  • Troubleshoot network related issues.  • Completed Monthly Profit and Loss Checks  • Oversee operations of store  • Maintained weekly schedules  • Assisted with customer needs SUSE Linux Enterprise 2012 to 2016 • Active Directory • ACAS SecurityCenter  • DISA STIG/SCAP Tools • VMware / vSphere  • NetIQ AppManager • Splunk Enterprise Technician HVAC - Upper Marlboro, MD October 2014 to February 2015 • Serviced heating and air systems.  • Recommend upgrades and/or sell products to better system functions for customers.  • Troubleshoot any electrical issues associated with HVAC systems and electrical panel.  • Wire and route thermostats.  • Completed cleaning checks and ensure proper system functionality. Assist other technicians with harder jobs  such as total system replacement, hot water tank replacements, heat exchanger replacements, compressor  replacements. Sales Manager Rent-A-Center, Inc - Waldorf, MD January 2013 to October 2014 • Controlled and oversaw all operations and daily tasks.  • Completed weekly schedules for associates.  • Assisted host store in daily operations.  • Completed daily signoffs on customer's folders and associate task list.  • Completed Monthly P&L high level overview.  • Took a store with poor collections, low revenue, and low sales to $1,000,000 store, closed collections and raised  sales to the highest in the region. NetIQ Sentinel 2012 to 2012 Education High School Diploma Thomas Stone High School - Waldorf, MD June 2008 Skills Vmware, System Admin, Active Directory, System Administrator