Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Meridian, ID Versatile, Senior level Information Technology professional with career experience spanning System and Network Administration to Application and Database Programming in both small business and Enterprise class environments. Dedicated to providing reliable I.T. Infrastructure Support and Stability in a professional, well organized environment. Enjoys the challenge and rewards of finding ways to improve a less structured environment and maintain it more efficiently. Embraces opportunities to continue learning new technologies and IT applications. Work Experience Systems Administrator Dynamic Campus, Inc - Nampa, ID December 2016 to June 2019 and then working remote with onsite travel to multiple clients after July 2018  Daily Administration and support of the following Infrastructure:  ? Windows Servers 2016/2012/2008 (physical and VMWare virtual)  ? Active Directory Services including User and computer management and group/role based security model  ? Networking Services including DHCP, DNS, Server-based firewall  ? Office 365 tenancy including Exchange, Sharepoint, Skype, Onedrive, etc.  ? Daily Backups of file systems and VM's using Unitrends  ? Anti-Malware for Endpoints (ESET)  ? Trained in Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM) and then deployed and documented successful site implementation Information Technology Administrator Zamzows Inc - Nampa, ID December 2015 to December 2016 Daily Administration and support of the following Infrastructure:  ? Windows Servers 2012/2008 (Hyper-V virtual and physical)  ? Active Directory Services including User and computer management and group/role based security model  ? Networking Services including DHCP, DNS, HP Routers/Switches, and cloud-based Fortinet firewall/content filtering  ? Office 365 tenancy including Exchange, Sharepoint, Skype, Onedrive, etc.  ? MPLS Metropolitan Area Network connecting 13 locations  ? Daily Backups of file systems and VM's using BackupAssist  ? Anti-Malware for Endpoints (ESET)  ? Remote Access Infrastructure including VPN and Terminal Services  ? ShoreTel VOIP system with Faxfinder Appliance Systems And Network Administrator Mission Aviation Fellowship - Nampa, ID July 2012 to December 2015 Daily Administration and support of the following Infrastructure:  ? Windows Servers 2012/2008/2003 (Hyper-V virtual and physical)  ? Active Directory Services management including Domains and Trusts, Sites and Services, and Users and Computers  ? Networking Services Management including DHCP, DNS, HP Routers/Switches, Cisco ASA firewall/content filtering and Mikrotik Routers (remote locations)  ? Exchange Server 2010/2007  ? Enterprise Backups using System Center Data Protection Manager/Virtual Machine Manager and Symantec Backup Exec (replaced with above)  ? Antivirus for Endpoints and email (Trend Micro)  ? Remote Access Infrastructure including VPN, Terminal Services, and Remote Desktop Gateway  ? Barracuda Email Appliance  ? Network and Systems Monitoring (i.e. Nagios)  ? Sharepoint Foundation 2013  ? Various Application Software including Help Desk Ticketing and Asset Tracking (SysAid). Systems And Network Administrator Transonic Combustion - Camarillo, CA March 2012 to July 2012 Daily Administration and support of Infrastructure including Windows Servers 2008/2003 (XenApp virtual and physical) Active Directory, Windows Workstations (Windows 7, Vista and XP), Network folders/shares on Windows Storage Server, Network Printers, and Application Software.  ? Responsible for planning growth and improvements of I.T. Infrastructure to align with growth of the company.  ? Administration and Support of Allworx IP Phone system. Infrastructure Administrator Webco Construction July 2007 to July 2012 Handle all of the company's Information Technology needs  ? Server/Workstation Administration on Windows Server 2003/LINUX, Windows 7/Vista/XP  ? Network Administration  ? Mobile Device Administration and Connectivity including Android, iPhone/iPad, Blackberry  ? Purchasing/Leasing of all IT equipment, software and Training needs Systems Administrator/Network Support Harbor Freight Tools - Corporate Headquarters - Calabasas, CA October 2011 to March 2012 Daily Administration and support of Infrastructure including Active Directory, Windows workstations (Windows 7 and XP), Citrix virtual machines (XenApp), and network folders/shares/printers  ? Level 2 (escalation) support of I.T. Service Desk  ? Liaison between I.T. support groups to improve processes and efficiencies  ? Administration and Support of ShoreTel IP Phone system Network and Systems Administrator Enterprise Command Center (NOC), Amgen, Inc January 2000 to February 2006 Daily activities included critical network and server global monitoring utilizing Spectrum and other Enterprise Systems Management tools.  ? Responsible for Administration of all Department workstations including Windows and UNIX based Operating Systems.  ? Managed project to replace ECC Monitoring/Display systems, coordinating efforts with internal personnel and outside vendors.  ? Managed implementation of Tivoli Enterprise Console as a monitoring tool including creation of DP (Documented Practice) outlining escalation procedures. Programmer/Analyst Enterprise Command Center (NOC), Amgen, Inc June 1993 to December 1999 Sales& Marketing division of Amgen, Inc.  ? Developed web-based front end to database systems in HTML/Javascript using Netscape client/browser(versions 3.x & 4.x) and CGI scripting with SQL in a UNIX environment.  ? Continued to manage ACM (Amgen Customer Master) application (coding, maintenance)  ? Managed project to create Sales & Marketing internal Web Site, and served as Web-Master. Programmer/Analyst Consultant Software Management Consultants Inc - Glendale, CA September 1991 to June 1993 Consulted for Amgen in the Sales & Marketing Operations systems group.  ? Re-Developed the ACM (Amgen Customer Master) system as well as other related systems.  ? Extensive Software Coding and Database Design/Analysis using 4GL Database tools. Education Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science in Computer Science Azusa Pacific University - Azusa, CA Skills System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory, System Admin, Linux Certifications/Licenses MCSE/MCSA Windows 2000/2003 January 2003 to Present CCNA January 2003 to January 2006 Assessments Technical Support — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/yah3ngfgztwkkkps Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.