Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Cognizant Belton, TX • I am seeking an organization that will allow me to assist in the operations of Data Centers and Call Center Management. I would want the opportunity for upward mobility and have training for larger scale projects and project management knowledge and hopefully be afforded the certification. Work Experience Systems Administrator Cognizant July 2018 to Present • Windows VMware 5.5 administrator    • SCCM Administrator for Kite Transition to Gilead Pharmacological    • RDP into Kite environment for SCCM overview    • RDP with Cisco Anyconnect into VDI for onboarding of Gilead Contractor training Systems Administrator/Technical Support Specialist Syrainfotek April 2018 to July 2018 • FPT Software - North Vietnam technical support for SWM International    • Technical Support for users in Vietnam, Philippines, Poland, France, Brazil and the US.    • ServiceNow implementation for above countries    • Microsoft Exchange 2016 and the Powershell scripts for AD account creation and disable account    • Desktop and Printer support for the organization    • Technical support for SWM International Service Desk IT Systems Administrator TEK Systems Inc November 2017 to March 2018 • Sub-contractor for Dell Computers    • US Air Force Windows 10 Migration    • Non-classified NIPR computer installations    • Classified SIPR computer app installations    • GoodFellow AFB - San Angelo Texas    • JBSA - San Antonio    • Working with Agile Defense platform and SCCM imaging Windows 10    • Using CPM Migrator moving user profile onto new HP hardware    • Manual SATA migration of users Profile after joining the new hardware to the domain. IT Systems Administrator Technology Service Professionals July 2017 to September 2017 • Manage and administration of Managed IT users systems along with documentation of their network    • Performance tuning of Windows Servers 2008R2 through Windows Servers 2012R2.    • Migration of Exchange Server 2007 to 2016.    • Configuration of UPS and Server operations along with automation of shutdown procedures. IT SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR TEK Systems Inc December 2016 to December 2016 - DECEMBER 2016    • W2 consultant work for Globenet LLC with the Abilene Oceans Healthcare group    • Network and Domain controller reconfiguration Windows Server 2012R2 for local domain    • Promotion of Domain Controller and troubleshooting replication issues    • Virtual Print server and configuration of printers on the network along with Group Policy Printing. IT SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR MEDSTAR MOBILE HEALTHCARE August 2005 to March 2016 • I am the Administrator of the Computer Aided Dispatch (CAD) 911 secondary PSAP Call Center for the City of Fort Worth and other small communities within Tarrant County Area Metropolitan Ambulance Authority. I have worked with the Tritech Software system and I am in the process of the transition of switching to the Logis Software from Denmark.  • Dell Server installation along with configuration on LAN Switches and use of Open Manage  • IBM SAN and Stonefly NAS storage administration and backups  • Project Management of Software Upgrades, DR site with new Server room replication  • ESX VMWare 5.5 virtual servers and desktop configuration along with V-sphere and Horizon  • Microsoft SQL Server installation and Database Administration of Tritech Software for CAD (Computer Aided Dispatch)  • Virtual MS SQL server performance tuning and optimization with SQL Queries and Data and Log file shrinkage, Stored Procedures, and Views.  • Upgrade CAD Software and Patch management of Windows Server 2000, 2003, 2003R2,2008, 2008R2, 20012, 2012R2  • NICE Motorola voice and radio recording software  • Support Engineer onsite for Medstar and Motorola NICE regional support.  • Configuration of physical machine with the software downloaded from the server for training of staff.  • Support Call Center staff and Supervisory personnel for problems and first line troubleshooting.  • Vendor contact point for onsite access and upgrade of NICE software.  • Organization Exchange and Active Directory additions and removal of mailbox of terminated employees  • Support Engineer for Cisco Unified Communication Center Manager and SIP and Fiber protocols  • Provided 24/7 Help desk support to the organization  • Administrated Microsoft SCCM, Orchestrator and SCOM for the Enterprise of the Organization  • Used the Cisco VPN for the management of the network remotely  • Used Citrix based remote tools for vendors and remote users for troubleshooting like GoToAssist, GoToMeeting  • Symantec Veritas and Veeam backups of Mission Critical data and virtual environment  • After Hours Help Desk Tier 2 and 3 support Administrator  • Configuration of new hardware and laptops with the profiles and programs needed for the Executives  • Any other duties as assigned by the IT Manager. Loading Cisco iOS 2016 to 2016 interface configuration file into Cisco 2960 X series firewall.    • Administration of VM Ware 6.0 and the virtual machines under the license and support agreement.    • Joining file share server to the Domain and administration of Active Directory for the various domains.    • Troubleshooting end users issues with accessing data and printing for the domains.    • Office 365 Administration for endusers Education Information Systems Management KELLER GRADUATE SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT May 2006 BS in Information Technology DEVRY UNIVERSITY January 2002 Skills Active Directory, SCCM, System Admin, System Administrator, Vmware