Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Atlanta, GA Work Experience Systems Administrator F1 - Atlanta, GA March 2014 to Present Responsibilities  • Apply expert knowledge to provide specialized support to resolve end-user unique system/application problems; and install, configure, and troubleshoot systems supporting DEA Firebird network.  • Perform system backups and upgrades, DHCP upkeep, network and workstation maintenance and repairs, etc.  • Activate and support iPhone devices with the Firebird network. Train DEA Atlanta Field Division users on iPhone features and applications  • Perform tasks pertaining to the preservation, identification, extraction, and/or documentation of potential evidence from computer equipment and data storage media.  • Support and implement hardware, software and network configurations of the client server environment within the Atlanta Field Division  • Provide technical support for technology infrastructure, applications, software, hardware, networks, data management, systems analysis, security, internet, intranet, systems administration, websites, and/or customer support  • Monitor and analyze evolving IT requirements in the Atlanta Field Division offices. Propose specific changes to the IT infrastructure requirement based upon analyses of the Division's needs  • Train staff at all levels in the use of various computer applications, concepts and procedures. Provide technical support assistance for investigations throughout the Atlanta Division Office, including the planning, managing and maintaining of electronic document collections  • Work with Program staff to negotiate file and media formats for electronic productions, and determine the best approach for loading and viewing data Server Administrator Flairsoft Federal - Warner Robins, GA February 2013 to July 2013 • Manage Print Servers and backup print files  • Monitor printer queue daily  • Perform system backup and restore actions  • Work trouble tickets on ITISM  • Maintain and configured server updates  • Perform routine server maintenance  • Establish and manage hardware devices and administer the operating system  • Manage host peripheral hardware including disk files and space utilization  • Perform system startup and reboot when necessary  • Control use of host peripheral equipment in computer room  • Conduct, write, and submit system risk analysis reports  • Software installation  • Data analysis Help Desk Technician INDUS Corporation - Montgomery, AL February 2012 to February 2013 • Assist in providing quality support for Air Force Portal customers within a team environment  • Provide phone support to users needing assistance with the Air Force and applications housed on it  • Respond to email service request in an effective and timely manner  • Utilize the Remedy ticket system to ensure incidents are well documented  • Work with team members to report issues quickly to prevent widespread problems  • Ensure that customers received top notch technical troubleshooting  • Maintained existing websites; Implemented new functionalities.  • Conducted the migration of an old MS Access application.  • Provide desktop PC support.  • Phone support to Military, Civilian, and other enterprise Team Members.  • User Network and Application account setup.  • Window updates on servers and PC’s and Network Cabling.  • Provide Remote Access for Network for trouble tickets in Remedy 7.1 and 7.6  • Ensure latest security and update patches are installed.  • Provide Client Support Admin (CSA) and Network Computer Center (NCC) phone support.  • Configure, install and update hardware and software for all workstations while creating a standard image utilizing imaging software.  • Provide hardware and software application upgrades and enhancements to end-user workstations and laptops, configure user profiles and permissions.  • Experience working with UNIX, EITSM 7.6 Remedy Trouble Ticket System, Microsoft Office 2003, XP Professional 2007 & 2010, Microsoft Outlook 2007 & 2012, Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint, Directory and Recourse Administration (DRA), Intermediate Java and C Programming, Microsoft Windows XP & 7, Microsoft Project 2007, Active Directory, Remote Administration/Assistance, and Bomgar. Sales Associate Best Buy - Montgomery, AL June 2007 to February 2012 • Responsible for providing excellent customer services support on standard operating procedures and technical assistance to customer.   • Assisted customers in selecting best product, organize, track and maintain inventory, update and apply merchandise cost, assures customer satisfaction. Loader/Sorter United Parcel Service - Montgomery, AL June 2005 to February 2012 • Responsible for providing outstanding Customer Service Support and cooperative team leadership of UPS prompt and courteous customer satisfaction to end users incoming and outgoing packages.   • Tracked inventory and packages in UPS trucks based on productivity specification requirements outlined in UPS computerize   • Responsible for initiation of analytical/technical troubleshooting skills in hardware and software when technical issues occur with UPS load/scan system process. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems Alabama State University - Montgomery, AL 2005 to 2011 Skills Windows® Operating Systems, Windows Server 2003, XP/Vista/Windows 7, Database Administration, Internet Programming, Microsoft® Office Suite 2007/2010, Internet/E-Mail, Active Directory, Group Policy and Enterprise management, Windows 7/10 Administrator, Customer Service, Training & Support, Analytical/Technical Troubleshooting skills, Remote Desktop, utilizing Remedy Ticketing System, Blackberry Exchange Server Troubleshooting, Network Connectivity, Network Printers, Non- Network Printers, McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator, Airwatch Console Certifications/Licenses Security+ May 2012 to May 2016 Additional Information Secret Clearance