Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator San Diego, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator San Diego Family Housing LLC - San Diego, CA March 2006 to Present My company is the leading property management company contracting with the military to manage almost all of the Navy and Marine Corps housing areas and a few Air Force and Army housing areas. There are 4 regions and I cover the Navy Southwest Region.     I provide Tier 2/3 desktop support for my region which consists of 50 small to medium sized offices in California, Nevada and Washington. I support:  • 500 pc's  • network printers and NAS devices.  • Ubiquiti network switches  • limited phone system support and limited copier support.  • Proficient network routers and Ubiquiti POE switches  • Ring Central hosted VoIP Administrator    I manage ISP vendors, copier vendors, etc    I developed the Windows 7 Pro image used company-wide, nationwide.    I create and maintain budgets for my region and am the purchaser for all the hardware in my region. Facility Manager Davis Stone - Escondido, CA January 2005 to March 2006 This is a stone slab processing company that cuts stone slabs for countertops, walls, flooring, etc.    I used the mechanical experience I learned from my Navy career to maintain two bridge saws, three edge shaping and polishing machines, air compressors and numerous hand tools Deployment Technician QualXServ - San Diego, CA April 2003 to December 2004 QualXServ was a sub-contractor for the Navy Marine Corps Internet (NMCI) project. The project was to take all of the disparate computers and network devices managed by individual commands and standardize them under a civilian contractor.    Another contractor imaged PC's and set them up with the assigned users and the approved software. Those PC's were then reboxed and delivered to the Navy commands where we worked 2nd shift installing those PC's and transferring the data from the user profiles on the old PC to the new PC. Also had to setup network printers. Each Tech had to process at least 2 PC's per night. I averaged 4 to 6. Boiler Technician US Navy - San Diego, CA July 1982 to April 2003 While on sea duty I ran and maintained the ships steam (boiler) powered engineering equipment ensuring the ship met all commitments.    On shore duty (Hawaii) I worked at the Boiler Repair shop maintaining and repairing the ships Engineering equipment and heat exchangeers. A second shore duty I used testing equipment to run operational tests to ensure the equipment was operating as it should. My last shore duty I was an Instructor, teaching Auxiliary Boiler Operation to people in the "Engineman" rating.    As I got further into my Navy career I started angling towards IT work. I was a tech manual custodian and an Assistant PC Security Tech. It was then that I learned to build my first PC. Education General Studies in General Studies North Central Michigan College - Petoskey, MI September 1979 to June 1980 High school or equivalent Petoskey High School - Petoskey, MI September 1974 to June 1978 Network Plus in Information Technology San Diego Continuing Education - San Diego, CA Skills Active Directory (10+ years), Systems Administrator (7 years), Network + (9 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/david-bailey-170b553/ Military Service Branch: Navy Service Country: United States Rank: E-6 July 1982 to July 2003 While on sea duty I ran and maintained the ships steam (boiler) powered engineering equipment ensuring the ship met all commitments.    On shore duty (Hawaii) I worked at the Boiler Repair shop maintaining and repairing the ships Engineering equipment and heat exchangeers. A second shore duty I used testing equipment to run operational tests to ensure the equipment was operating as it should. My last shore duty I was an Instructor, teaching Auxiliary Boiler Operation to people in the "Engineman" rating.    As I got further into my Navy career I started angling towards IT work. I was a tech manual custodian and an Assistant PC Security Tech. It was then that I learned to build my first PC. Commendations: Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal x1  Navy Meritorious Unit Commendation x5  Navy "Battle E" x5  Navy Good Conduct x4  Navy Expeditionary Medal x1  National Defense Medal x1  Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal x2  Military Outstanding Service Medal x1  Navy Sea Service Deployment x3  Navy Pistol Qualification w/"Sharpshooter" attachment Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/t-vzn884mjwlpiku Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/msjjdq3p-4-mers Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/god8muhl4kazido5 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information I like to volunteer a lot.    I volunteer with Habitat for Humanity doing low voltage wiring and whatever else needs doing.    I also volunteer as pit crew and crew chief for an SCCA Majors racing team.