Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Livermore, CA Twenty years of professional experience in Christian ministry.  Twenty years of professional experience in writing, editing, teaching, and management.    Extensive cross-cultural experience (born and raised in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; administered courses abroad). Fluent in Portuguese, competent in Spanish, reads Italian and French.    Personable professional whose strengths include cultural sensitivity and an ability to build rapport with a diverse workforce in multicultural settings. Exceptional listener and communicator who effectively conveys information verbally and in writing.  Key strengths and core competencies include:    • Formal training in theology and philosophy  • Writing and editing  • Project management and leadership  • Initiative and drive    • Organization and efficiency  • Collaboration  • Problem solving and analysis Work Experience Systems Administrator Homewood Suites by Hilton - Oakland, CA 2018 to Present • Front desk agent using On Q Property Management  • Maintenance Instructor SAT, ACT, SSAT and ISEE - Menlo Park, CA 2016 to 2018 • Instructor for Academic Support/Enrichment: pinpointing a student's precise level of proficiency in reading, writing, math, science and critical thinking and to customize highly targeted lesson plans that target a student's zone of proximal development.  • Instructor for Struggling Learners: students with diagnosis like ADHD, Dyslexia, or Executive Functioning Disorder Instructor for Executive Functioning and Wordsmith Express Annunciation Cathedral - San Francisco, CA 2010 to 2015 • Managed staff and office, produced financial reports, coordinated events, and organized maintenance schedules.  • Edited the monthly newsletter and wrote monthly articles for it.  • Developed and oversaw all cathedral communications, including writing and editing, in the form of letters, certificates, official records, and media (promotional materials both written and audiovisual).  • Coordinated the ordering and stocking of materials, selecting and negotiating with various vendors.  • Developed and maintained online schedules for all Cathedral events, coordinating and overseeing meetings and outreaches.  • Taught courses in history, theology, and philosophy.  • Provided pastoral counseling. Associate Minister Christ Reformed Church - Anaheim, CA 2005 to 2010 • Oversaw a team of 10 ministry workers, providing teaching, counseling, and project management.  • Wrote and delivered public speeches to a congregation of 400 people.  • Taught weekly courses in history, theology, and philosophy.  • Provided pastoral counseling to the congregation, including personal development, crisis management, and pre-marital counseling.  • Developed and maintained the church's website, including writing and editing all of its materials.  • Implemented and organized weekly outreach activities. Teaching Assistant Claremont School of Theology - Claremont, CA March 2009 to May 2009 • Taught weekly graduate courses in theology, history, philosophy.  • Administered exams and graded papers. Theological Editor and Curricula Developer The Centers for Apologetics Research - San Juan Capistrano, CA 1998 to 2005 • Oversaw a team of several writers in five countries and edited all materials in English.  • Developed curricula for classes in theology, philosophy, and history, including writing and editing.  • Wrote articles in theology, history and philosophy which were published in 5 languages, including a 200-page syllabus in Portuguese for use in Brazil and Mozambique.  • Edited the publications of the theological departments in Russia, Ukraine, Hungary, and Latin America.  • Taught courses in theology, history and philosophy to religious leaders in Africa (Mozambique). Media Center Supervisor Biola University - Los Angeles, CA 1998 to 2001 • Produced audio tapes for academic requirements and set up multimedia equipment for classes and auditorium presentations.  • Managed a team of student workers. Pastoral Assistant/Bookstore Worker Calvary Chapel Church - Lake Elsinore, CA 1996 to 1998 • Taught weekly courses in history, theology, and philosophy.  • Controlled cash flow, ordered materials and promoted sales. Industrial Gases Transportation Manager White Martins - Rio de Janeiro, BR 1991 to 1994 Managed the purchasing department, developed financial reports. Education Ph.D. in (ABD), Philosophy of Religion and Theology Claremont Graduate University - Claremont, CA Theology Westminster Seminary California - Escondido, CA B.A. in Philosophy Biola University - Los Angeles, CA Additional Information Computer Skills  • Publishing: Microsoft Office Suite, Adobe Acrobat, Publisher  • Web: Basic HTML and CSS, Wordpress