Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - GDIT, Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building Annandale, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator GDIT, Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building - Washington, DC May 2019 to Present • Design & test Win10 images on supported Dell laptops.  • Deploy 2000+ Dell 7480\7090 laptops to entire organization.  • Backup & deploy user data from existing to new laptop using Tranxition Migration Manager & KACE.  • Migrate Windows 7 PC's to Windows 10 Enterprise build 1703.  • Encrypt PC's using Bitlocker via WinMagic SecureDoc.  • Furnish post migration support as needed utilizing Remedy Helpdesk software.  • Manage Active Directory computer/user accounts, OUs, domain local, global, and universal groups.  • Control and manage user and computer accounts via Group Policy templates. (GPMC).  • Collaborate with operations & helpdesk resources to troubleshoot issues & design solutions. Windows Migration Engineer ePlus Technologies Inc - Herndon, VA September 2018 to March 2019 • Deployed a mix of over 1,800 HP G4, MAC & Surface laptops to entire organization.  • Utilized SCCM 2012, image laptops with mix of Windows 10 Enterprise & N 2016 LTSB.  • Designed Windows 10 Enterprise image.  • Migrated Windows 7 PC's to Windows 10 Enterprise & LTSB versions.  • Updated VPN software on all devices connecting to corp resources to Cisco AnyConnect ver.4.6.00362.  • Deployed McAfee Drive Encryption & Enterprise End Point Security.  • Tested then deployed PC & server patches via Ivanti Security & Compliance Manager.  • Managed & deployed software for Apple devices utilizing Addigy.  • On site: Backup & deploy user data from existing laptop to new laptop using USMT scripts to Drobo.  • Migrated user email accounts from Exchange Server 2013 to Office 365.  • Provided post migration support as needed utilizing Remedy Helpdesk software.  • Racked new Windows 2016 File servers & Domain controllers at each of the 26 office locations.  • Migrated existing Windows Server 2013 domain to new Windows Server 2016 domain.  • Moved DHCP off Cisco switches to new Windows Server 2016 DHCP servers. Windows Server Engineer/Manager Les Trois Petits Cochons/House of Bricks - Wilkes-Barre, PA September 2016 to April 2018 • Implement new company wide ERP software (Enterprise 21). Manage entire project including planning, scheduling, testing, championing, creating SOP's, training material, and employee training.  • Directly manage clerical and production employees; planning, assigning, directing work, appraising performance, addressing complaints and resolving problems.  • Administer companies physical Windows 2008 & 2012R2 servers, Hyper-V servers, LAN/WAN, VPN, PC's, & Meraki appliances located in Brooklyn, NY, New Heaven, CT, Wilkes-Barre and Hanover, PA.  • Managing Active Directory computer/user accounts, OUs, domain local, global, and universal groups.  • Controlled and managed user and computer accounts via Group Policy templates. (GPMC).  • Migrated companies on prem Exchange 2003 servers to Office 365 Enterprise.  • Deployed Skype for business, SharePoint, OneDrive, and Microsoft Teams.  • Utilized monitoring tools such as Solarwinds, AppDynamics, and Wireshark to maintain and monitor the health of related applications, systems, services and devices.  • Developed and deployed Windows 10 Enterprise package via SCCM 2012R2, patch management via WSUS.  • Utilize IBM MaaS360 to secure executives, sales, and marketing teams' phones (iOS & Android), laptops (MAC & PC), and tablets.  • Migrated a mix of 260 Windows XP and 2007 PC's to Windows 10 Enterprise.  • Deployed and maintained Symantec Enterprise to all servers and PC's.  • Purchased, installed and configured Dell Sonic Wall's at each location.  • Managed & Administered Remedy Service Desk to provided IT support for all software and hardware for entire company.  • Responsible for plans, budgets, and schedule modifications including cost estimates bid sheets and contracts. Windows Server/Network Manager South Texas Federal Credit Union - McAllen, TX December 2015 to June 2016 • Migrated Windows 2003 servers to 2008 & 2012R2, 200 Windows 2007 to Win 10 Enterprise.  • Evaluated & replaced Cisco Cataylst 2350 (end of life) switches & firewalls with Dell SonicWall TZ 400 & 1548P switches.  • Managed the deployment, monitoring, maintenance, and support of all IT systems, including telecommunications, servers, PCs, operating systems, hardware, software, peripherals and office automation equipment.  • Deployed Skype for business and OneDrive.  • Administered Windows 2008 and 2012 R2 physical/ Hyper-V and RedHat Linux servers.  • LAN/WAN, firewalls, switches, 100+ PC's, Mac's, iPhone's and Android devices.  • Deployed Solarwinds Web Help Desk.  • Managing Active Directory computer/user accounts, OUs, domain local, global, and universal groups.  • Configured and managed Group Policy.  • PC and server patch management utilizing WSUS.  • Utilized IBM MaaS360 to protect CEO, and marketing teams' laptops, phones, and tablets.  • Worked with stakeholders to define business and systems requirements for new technology implementations.  • Developed business case justifications and cost/benefit analysis for IT spending and initiatives.  • Oversaw and implemented all IT policies and procedures, including those for architecture, security, disaster recovery, standards, purchasing and service provisions.  • Authored & maintained SOP's and FAQ's.  • Built and maintained vendor relationships and manage the purchase of hardware and software products.  • Identified and provide standards for gathering IT help tickets for use in trend analysis and reports information to company CEO and board of directors.  • Administered SaaS apps: Office 365, Enplug, e-Oscar, FiS-efunds, ACH Online, Vantiv, etc.  • Ensured Service Level Agreements for all production systems/applications are met by metrics and reporting.    Education, Certifications, & Recent Professional Development  Education, Misericordia University, Dallas, PA, Bachelor of Science - Information Technology Education Bachelor's Skills NETWORKING, SECURITY, FIREWALL, QUALITY CONTROL, QUANTITATIVE Additional Information Strategic, capable, and tenacious manager committed to continuous process improvement through a combination of in-depth technical knowledge, application of quality standards, and an approachable style. Demonstrated business acumen and progressive technical competencies. Adept in improving operational efficiencies and maximizing profit centers using sound management and client stewardship principles. Exceptional problem solving, presentation, technical writing, analytical, strategic planning and advanced computers skills. Proven ability to organize, prioritize, collaborate, motivate and execute throughout echelons of a diverse multi-lingual workforce from front line workers to executives. Receptive to domestic/global travel.    AREAS OF EXPERTISE  Networking/Windows Server/ Firewall, Security/Quality Control/ Operational Efficiencies/ Process Improvement  Qualitative & Quantitative Analysis/Project Management/ Metric Reporting/ Team Building/Employee Relations