Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Lake Worth, FL Background in Electrical Engineering with PC, Networking and Technical Support skills and experience seeking opportunity to grow and apply technology skills Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator CHECKTECH - Boynton Beach, FL June 2017 to Present • Provide technical assistance and support for incoming queries and issues related to computer systems, software, and hardware.  • Respond to queries either in person or over the phone.  • Write training manuals.  • Train computer users.  • Maintain daily performance of computer systems.  • Respond to email messages for customers seeking help.  • Ask questions to determine nature of problem.  • Walk customer through problem-solving process.  • Install, modify, and repair computer hardware and software.  • Clean up computers.  • Run diagnostic programs to resolve problems.  • Resolve technical problems with Local Area Networks (LAN), Wide Area Networks (WAN), and other systems.  • Install computer peripherals for users.  • Follow up with customers to ensure issue has been resolved.  • Gain feedback from customers about computer usage.  • Run reports to determine malfunctions that continue to occur. Help Desk Technician LP Multi-Service, Tax Accountants - Lantana, FL January 2010 to July 2017 • Walk employees through problem-solving process.  • Install, modify, and repair computer hardware and software.  • Clean up computers.  • Run diagnostic programs to resolve problems.  • Resolve technical problems with Local Area Networks (LAN), Wide Area Networks (WAN), and other systems.  • Install computer peripherals for users.  • Follow up with customers to ensure issue has been resolved.  • Gain feedback from customers about computer usage.  • Run reports to determine malfunctions that continue to occ Tire Shop Supervisor Costco Wholesale Corporation - Boca Raton, FL 2008 to June 2017 • Delegated tasks  • Manage day to day   • scheduling   • Member service part time Computer Technician A Plus Computer support / SERT Data Recovery - Palm Springs, FL January 2016 to April 2016 • Diagnose, troubleshoot and repair computer issues.  • Data Recovery on failed Storage media   • Replace Failed hardware components Education Certification in Electrical Engineering Technology ITT Technical Institute - West Palm Beach, FL 2014 to 2016 Skills Windows XP/7/8/10, IOS,OSX, Linux, and Android (5 years), Networking, Help Desk, Desktop Support, Service Desk, Assemble / disassemble computers, Install, Configure and Troubleshoot (10+ years), Wordpress Developer (2 years), System Administrator