Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Xencor Inc Ontario, CA Seeking a challenging and responsible position in the field of Information Technology within an organization that enables me to utilize my networking skills and problem solving abilities. Work Experience Systems Administrator Xencor Inc October 2015 to Present • Part of a two-person IT team, responsible for support, maintenance and upgrades.  • Ensured infrastructure sustainability during company's growth spurt, where the company went from 42 employees to 170.  • Upgraded and migrated entire vSphere environment to new SAN and new compute and networking hardware.  • Migrated hosted email from BAE Systems to Microsoft's Office 365.  • Implemented Okta SSO to leverage SAML protocol.  • Upgraded backup infrastructure to utilize tape libraries, disk storage and offsite storage. Lead implementation Xencor Inc 2016 to 2016 • Migrated all existing infrastructure from Server 2008 to Server 2016.  • Led various migrations from on-prem to cloud.  • Implemented Next-Gen firewall solution with unified services such as DNS watch, IPS/IDS, Reputation Enabled Defense.  • Re-designed network to from flat to routed model in order to become more secure by means of segmentation.  • Lead implementation of security training program that includes simulated phishing campaigns.  • Automated common tasks such as software patching, OS upgrades, user migrations, and administrative tasks.  • Implemented collaboration tool Zoom and led training efforts.  • Cleaned up and re-organized cabling and network racks at both company sites.  • Implemented/Deployed WiFi network for production system, using certificates as means of authentication.  • Implemented classification system for critical systems, then proceed to implement MFA on those systems.  • Lead company's second branch office relocation from a 5,000 sq. ft. office to a 50,000 sq. ft office with minimal downtime.  • Engaged external security company, Lodestone, to assess infrastructure and creating reports for Risk Assessment, Security Assessment, and IR/DR plan.  • Assisted in policy drafting and compliance topics.  • Documented infrastructure, software integrations and documentation for internal software.  • Served as subject matter expert for FDA-related topics and audits.  • Assisted Associate Director, IT during SOX and SEC reporting audits.  • Built-upon existing knowledge by attending conferences, talking to vendors, peers and mentors. Network Administrator All American Asphalt December 2014 to October 2015 • Manage all aspects of a multi-site Domain  • Responsible for all LAN and WAN hardware, software and data integrity, security, all backup and recovery for all Windows server and Linux Platforms.  • Maintains network performance by performing network monitoring and analysis, and performance tuning.  • Prepares users by designing and conducting training programs; providing references and support.  • Upgrades network by conferring with vendors; developing, testing, evaluating, and installing enhancements.  • Responsible for maintaining documentation describing the LAN's layout and operational considerations.  • Installation of new network hardware, PC computer, hardware and software systems.  • Researches, configures and installs personal computer software packages, software upgrades, PC Support  • Performs related duties as required. Help Desk / Fleet Manager Sun Delivery Inc January 2012 to November 2014 • Train staff for equipment use, WMS software (RF guns, and PC's)  • Basic troubleshooting to company systems such as Servers, VoIP phone systems, printers and PC's  • Assign daily tasks and special projects to employees  • Maintain all equipment and facility up to company standards  • Submit driver pay forms based on trip performance, and ending revenue  • Design new procedures based on needed areas of improvement  • Make sure the facility and equipment complies with federal, state, and local environmental laws  • Ensure company drivers follow FMCSA/DOT laws and regulations Education Bachelors of Science in Information Systems and Cybersecurity in Information Systems and Cybersecurity ITT Technical Institute - San Dimas, CA March 2015 Skills Linux, Active Directory, Vmware, System Admin, System Administrator Additional Information Skills:  Design and management of all aspects of a multi-site Active Directory-based network with Windows servers both physical and virtualized. Microsoft Exchange, Microsoft SQL Server, System Backup management, Windows Server 2003, 2008, 2012, 2016, 2019. Windows XP, 7, 8, 10. Active Directory, DHCP, DNS, IIS, Remote Desktop, VPN, RDP, Print Server, File Server, Exchange Server 2007, Hyper V, WSUS Server, Backup Exec, Symantec Endpoint Protection Manager/Client, vSphere, VirtualBox. FreePBX VoIP, Websense Web Filter, Oracle P6, Bid2Win, TCP/IP, LAN/WAN, DMZ, VLAN, Firebox OS, Nagios, OStickets, PA monitor, MaaS 360 MDM, Disaster Recovery, Cylance, Carbon Black, Jira Service Desk, Compellent SAN, Synology NAS, Mitel Connect, Office 365, Azure, Exchange Online, ADSync, DLP, DPQ Deploy, Proofpoint/Wombat, Cisco, RHEL, Okta SSO, SAML, Replicon, Concur, NetSuite, PasswordState, Application Control, Audit support, Policy drafting