Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Utica, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator NBT Bank April 2019 to Present • Mange VMware User Environment Manager(UEM)  • Create new configurations within UEM  • Update gold images with current patches.  • Troubleshoot VMware VDI issues.  • Resolve issues with users' profile.  • Junior System Administrator Northern Safety & Industrial - Frankfort, NY December 2018 to Present ·       Create users and groups in Active Directory  ·       Managing user permissions through security groups.  ·       Building and maintaining Windows Servers (Virtual and Physical).  ·       Creating email accounts and distribution groups inside Exchange.  ·       Assist with maintaining our SharePoint site.  ·       Working inside LogRhythm to create alerts.  ·       Resolving vulnerabilities on servers reported by Nessus Vulnerability scan.  ·       Manage our network printers.  ·       Monitoring alerts coming in from servers, unstable power supplies, routers, and other IT equipment. IT Specialist II Northern Safety & Industrial June 2018 to December 2018 • Being an escalation point for Specialists I.  • Manage our VMware Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI).  • Create and update Gold Images for our VDI environment.  • Create and manage applications for our VDI environment through VMware App Volumes  • Maintain VDI infrastructure to ensure the latest versions.  • Assist Vendor Support to resolve issues with service outages.  • Manage laptop and desktop updates through Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM).  • Deploy applications through SCCM.  • Manage our PBX system.  • Create phone extensions for associates.  • Found a PDF Solution for out associates saving the company about $10,000 dollar over a three year period compared to our previous PDF solution Software.  • Found an alternative Zebra label printer for our warehouse saving the company about $700 per printer.  • Configure and prepared the equipment for multiple new locations including a distribution center and customer sites.  • Resolved an issue with our call recording software to help with being PCI compliant.  IT Specialist I Northern Safety & Industrial - Frankfort, NY October 2017 to June 2018 ·       Monitor, prioritize, schedule, and respond to incoming help desk requests via incoming help desk tickets, emails, and phone calls.  ·       Manage incoming tickets by either working the ticket or assiging them to the correct IT department.  ·       Imaged computers for new associates and for our Hardware Lifecycle plan.  ·       Worked with the Specialist Manager to determine whose equipment was up for replacement.  ·       Provided troubleshooting on issues before passing the ticket to escalation or other IT teams.  ·       Troubleshooting and resolving Windows 10, 8, and 7 issues.  ·       Creating documentation for end users and IT associates to help with resolving future issues.  ·       Installing printers for end users not on our print server.  ·       Installing software based on end users’ needs.  ·       Cleaning virus on computers reported by our Anti-Virus management console. Front Desk Guest Service Representative (GSR) Red Roof Inn - Utica, NY November 2009 to November 2017 • Handle reservation requests  • Handle guest accounting and cashier functions  • Perform daily cash counts  • Prepare bank deposits and review audit packages  • Complete reporting for daily occupancy/revenue, weekly inn operations, and expenditures ledger   • Update memorandum and operations manuals  • Train new GSRs on policies and procedures  • Daily reconciliation of transactions   • Maintain friendly guest interactions to ensure a positive experience  • Communicate with other GSRs and team members about daily room information, maintenance, lost and found items and any discrepancies  • Inspect rooms daily to meet Red Roof standards  • Repair room fixtures and amenities as needed  • Maintain interior and exterior hotel conditions  • Oversee 10+ employees in absence of manager  • Handle any guest concerns and correct any guest issues  • Provided IT support for property  • Install New Printers and Hardware  • Troubleshoot Hotel Management software  • Setup up new equipment and software Loader - T3 Walmart Distrubution - Marcy, NY June 2016 to October 2017 Load freight onto the back of tractor trailers.  Sort freight that isn't recognized by the conveyor scanners. Ensure freight is loaded securely and correctly before shipping.  Train new associates that are hired. Education Bachelor of Science in Cyber Security- Information Assurance Utica College - Utica, NY Associates in Criminal Justice Mohawk Valley Community College - Utica, NY Skills Windows, Technical Support, VMware VDI Additional Information Skills  • Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft PowerPoint  • Redi Stay Software  • Customer Service  • Virtualization  • Linux Software