Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - BEAT Fort Belvoir Community Hospital San Antonio, TX Work Experience Systems Administrator BEAT Fort Belvoir Community Hospital August 2016 to Present Skilled in VMware Virtualization with knowledge of vShpere versions 6.0, 6.5  Managed solutions on multiple platforms to include EMC VNX, Cisco UCS, Cisco MDS Fiber SAN, and Nutanix AHV.  Apply system updates, patches, and configuration changes to keep the EMC appliances security current.  Assisted with design and implementation of DR site using Avamar and Data domain  Performed backups/recovery using Avamar, Networker, and Quantum Scalar.  Install new/rebuild existing servers and configure hardware, peripherals, services, settings, directories, storage, etc. in accordance with standards.  Migrate physical servers to virtual.  Upgrade Windows Server 2008R2 to 2012.  Planned and executed all processes for Xerox deployment for the 2017 device refresh.  Involved in SA-related solutions for various project and operational needs.  Provide Tier III/other support per request from other departments.  Create, change, and delete user accounts in Active Directory.  Manage usage of Exchange mailboxes, NPEs/DLs, and entitlements. Jr. Systems Engineer Finack Global Solutions LLC Defense Logistics Agency HQ Fort Belvoir June 2016 to August 2016 OS hardening in accordance with Security Technical Implementation Guide (STIG) and DLA Computer Emergency Response Team (DLA CERT) tasks using Security Content Application Protocol (SCAP), Assured Compliance Assessment Solution (ACAS) tools, and Security Readiness Reviews (SRRs).  Monitor security alerts and bulletins for the support environment and provide a plan of action with milestones (POAM). to correct any security related issues, identify false positives, or complete Authorizing Official Risk Acceptance (AORA) documentation to accept the risk.  Support all DLA audit activities as it relates to Enterprise Infrastructure software, hardware, and applications. These include but are not limited to Blue Team reviews, CCRI, DIACAP and other reviews.  Establish and support DR and COOP.  Provide 24x7 on-call support for production MAC 1 systems.  Respond to problem reports, research problems, determine cause, and recommend or initiate corrective action.  Identify and resolve OS software/hardware application bugs. SENIOR HELP DESK TECH LEAD BEAT Fort Belvoir Community Hospital April 2013 to May 2016 Provide help desk functionality in support of health care delivery for approximately 12,000 customers for the Defense Health Agency in the National Capital Region Medical Directorate (NCR-MD).  Responsible for End User Device (EUD) hardware and software systems for Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, the National Intrepid Center of Excellence (NICoE), Dilorenzo Clinic, Joint Pathology Center, Naval Surface Warfare Center Carderock, and the White House medical unit.  Research end-user requirements for proposal to upgrade existing applications.  Test hardware systems and make recommendations to leadership on trending technologies for procurement.  Evaluate End User Device performance issues for desktop and Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI) and supply analysis to remedy the related problems.  Evaluate and make recommendations for increasing performance with clinical software applications running on various hardware platforms.  Analyze desktops/VDI-using performance monitoring tools to develop plans for minimizing down time.  Manage customer service report standards through ticketing system reports for 50+ Help Desk technicians.  Run metrics for use in evaluating trending issues, setting high customer service standards, and first call resolution.  Maintain database for tracking known problematic issues and work with other divisions in IT to resolve these issues.  Lead Technician and queue manager responsible for prioritizing the Service desk, One Stop Shop, building ticket queues, and Defense Enterprise Email.  Establish diagnostic techniques to identify problems, investigate causes, and recommend solutions.  Resolve incidents on first contact when possible using Remote Desktop Tools.  Support desktop systems, which consisted of standard Department of Defense (DOD) Health Affairs and JTF CapMed Automated Information Systems (AIS), commercial off the shelf systems (COTS), and locally developed systems.  Maintain operating system environment through image deployment, hardware repair, peripheral device installations, desktop applications, updates/patching, and computer security monitoring.  Coordinate with Information Assurance and Data Center for patching and updating systems.  Manage the phone support team documenting issues with ServiceNow/LANDesk ticketing system for assignments to field support and first call resolution for any incoming phone calls.  Assist with the testing and implementation of the Windows 7 image pre-migration.  Lead for the Windows 7 deployment team during migration.  Assist with resolving key system downtimes with AHLTA, CHCS, Essentris, and LAN/WAN connectivity.  Develop knowledge base articles to publish in the ServiceNow/LANDesk ticketing system.  Consistently strived to meet and exceed customer service expectations. Help Desk Technician General Dynamics Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority October 2012 to April 2013 Phone and help-desk support for local and off-site users for approximately 10,000 Transit and administrative employees.  Provide support to the 24/7/365 hours of operation to include nights, weekends and holidays as required.  Analyze incidents and determine level of support required.  Resolve all Tier I customer calls within 2 hours or escalate the call to the appropriate queue for resolution.  Apply diagnostic techniques to identify problems, investigate causes, and recommend solutions.  Incidents will be resolved on first contact when possible using the supported remote desktop control application as appropriate.  Responsible for creating and updating knowledge base for Help desk standard operating procedures.  Maintain a database utilizing the service desk software of all telephone calls and messages received requesting customer assistance.  Service desk support to include logging in and resolving issues related to:  Hardware (desktops, mobile devices, printers, multifunction devices, peripherals, and cables) installs configuration changes, updates/upgrades, and troubleshooting.  Software (drivers, COTS and or GOTS applications, operating system, and patches) installs configuration changes, updates/upgrades, and troubleshooting. Service Desk Analyst TeamHealth - Knoxville, TN October 2011 to October 2012 Level 1 Phone support to roughly 10,650 employees and physicians.  Provide timely, professional, and knowledgeable support to users' computer, software, network and telephone problems.  Active Directory account creation and management.  BMC Remedy Action Request System for creating incident and change management.  Create knowledge base articles and templates in BMC Remedy Application Administration Console.  Symantec PGP whole disk encryption software.  EDM OnBase Account Management.  Kofax scanning and document capture.  VPN Connection-Juniper.  Microsoft Certificate Services.  Trend Micro OfficeScan antivirus support.  Concur expense report management.  Mobile Iron Support for Multi IOS Devices.  Mobile device support for Blackberry/iPhone/iPad.  Provide Backup, wipe, and recovery for Blackberry Mobile Devices. Support Technician Level 2 Lockheed Martin-San Antonio Military Medical Center May 2010 to October 2011 Level 2 Remote administrator for over 10,000 users.  Manage urgent high priority service requests affecting patient care.  Maintain clear documentation of customer support through BMC Remedy Action Request System.  Active directory object (OU), group membership, account setup, and published PKI certificate administration.  Diagnose and setup users Juniper VPN connections for remote access.  Active Client installation, configuration and troubleshooting to include Digital signature support.  Network diagnostics for port activation, patch panel, and switch configuration.  VOIP phone support with the Avaya System.  Wireless connection issues with Air Fortress software.  Backup and restore user data.  Encrypt/decrypt data using Credant.  Outlook Client configuration and support.  Deploy system images to PC's through SCCM.  Install software from network share.  Blackberry support.  Support major Army Medical and third party healthcare applications.  Troubleshoot certificate and Smart Card based access.  IM/IT Site Administrator for outlying medical clinics.  Created standard operating procedures for identified known issues.  Continually strive for the most expedient service request resolution.  Meet and exceed Customer Service expectations. Education B.S. in Marketing Radford University Skills System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory, System Admin