Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Charlton, MA I am an IT professional with over 15 years of experience ranging from supporting large, multi-million dollar production infrastructures to handling IT operations for small/mid-size companies. I am interested in challenging technical roles where I can bring my extensive operations experience to contribute as part of a team to implement new ideas and technology while keeping all systems stable, properly monitored, and secure. Work Experience Systems Administrator PatientKeeper - Waltham, MA October 2013 to September 2017 Worked as a contract employee for 13 months and was offered a full position as soon as budget would allow.  ? Primary VMWare support resource for multiple clusters. Locally, as well as remote clusters in collocated facilities.  ? Perform escalation level support for Windows Server 2008r2-2016, CentOS, RHEL, storage, and backup infrastructure in multiple locations.  ? Preconfigured disaster recovery environment servers, storage and prepared equipment and cabling for shipment to remote data center.  ? Traveled to Atlanta to rack, cable, and stage remote disaster recovery environment equipment. Any remaining DR infrastructure was then able to be configured remotely after our trip to the Colo facility was complete.  ? Experience administering EMC Unity, VNX, VNXe storage. Also have experience with Oracle ZFS and ZS3-2 storage. HP MSA, HP DAS.  ? Migrated Atlassian product suite from Windows server to CentOS 7. Migration consisted of Test and Production environments of Confluence, Jira, Bitbucket, and Fisheye/crucible. This migration to Linux increased application performance noticeably, as well as reduced vCPU, RAM, and overall storage footprint requirements.  ? Helped to define infrastructure needs for future growth and current projects. Handled shipment and pre configuration of additional ESXi hosts, servers, and storage devices to remote collocated facilities. Some equipment was racked and cabled by remote hands according to my specifications. All equipment racked by remote hands was installed properly on the first attempt without any confusion in regards to rack location or network/power cabling.  ? Upgrades of hardware and software for multiple VMWare clusters from ESXi 4.1 to 5.5 update 3.  ? Administer Juniper VPN devices.  ? Administer Citrix Netscaler devices.  ? Administer RSA SecureID servers and environment. IT Consultant OneOffApparrel.com - West Boylston, MA March 2012 to August 2013 Provided escalation-level technical support on a part-time basis.  ? Configured new computer systems and in-store displays.  ? Performed remote administration of computers, network equipment and Mac OS X/Windows systems.  ? Provided support for printing devices in a large-scale inkjet print shop environment. Production Release DBA Vistaprint Inc - Lexington, MA June 2010 to February 2012 Responsible for the successful release of tables, stored procedures and other database objects to various testing, pre-production and production environments.  ? Acted as liaison between the Release Management and Problem Management departments to support the release process and tuning/optimization of databases.  ? Participated in on-call rotation for Production DBA issues and escalations one week per month.  ? Handled upgrade, installation and configuration of SQL Server databases and related components (SSRS, SSIS and SSAS).  ? Responsible for preparation and deployment of database portions of major release to production every 3 weeks, off hours.  ? Acted as the main point of contact for the IT Operations group for VMWare vCenter SQL Server database issues, upgrades, or migrations.  ? Handled SQL Server patch deployments through all environments, working with QA to identify and propose fixes for issues potentially caused by changes during releases or patching. Senior Systems Administrator/VMWare VCP Vistaprint Inc - Lexington, MA April 2007 to June 2010 Monitoring of production systems and proactive response to potential issues.  ? Worked directly with the Problem Management group to prioritize and triage issues.  ? IIS configuration and troubleshooting.  ? Document and report suspicious performance trends and escalate to appropriate groups for further investigation and resolution.  ? Suggest potential fixes for production issues while adhering to the release process.  ? Participated in on-call rotation every 4-5 weeks.  ? Support day to day operations, maintaining highest possible uptime and reliability for the production site, manufacturing plants, and satellite offices.  ? Planned and executed several hardware and software upgrades for VMWare ESX clusters (v3.0 to 3.5, v3.5 to 4.0, etc.).  ? Provided escalation support on and off hours for VMWare clusters.  ? Wrote ESX kickstart scripts to automate installation and configuration of new hosts deployed to VMware clusters.  ? Responsible for mentoring and training of junior team members. Systems Administrator, NOC Vistaprint Inc - Lexington, MA, US March 2006 to April 2007 Monitor production systems and proactively respond to any issues or signs of potential trouble.  ? More things that are already listed above. Desktop Systems Administrator, Mac OS X Monster.com - Maynard, MA February 2000 to May 2005 Acted as primary escalation point for the IT Helpdesk supporting approximately 500 end-users.  ? Key team member in planning and execution of Mac OS 9 to Mac OS X upgrade project for all Apple users at Monster Worldwide.  ? Responsible for maintaining "golden image" for OS X deployments.  ? Responsible for setup and coordination of cubicle moves for 5-10 people per week to accommodate new hires and department restructuring.