Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - ZRT Laboratory Beaverton, OR I am currently looking for a full-time position as a Systems Administrator in Nashville, TN. My wife and I will be relocating at the end of February 2020.    ? Skilled in Microsoft Windows XP/Vista/7/8/10, Microsoft Office 2003-365, Active  Directory Administration, SCCM, SCOM, SCDPM and Adobe Multimedia  ? Strong customer service skills  ? Strong oral and written communication skills  ? Experience with Windows Server 2012/2016, Hyper-V Virtual Machine Administration,  Azure AD Administration and Powershell  ? Knowledge of Cat5/Cat5e cable and network port construction, installation and testing Work Experience Systems Administrator ZRT Laboratory - Beaverton, OR November 2015 to Present ? Administration of all systems for troubleshooting, maintenance and updates.  ? Maintenance of systems using Microsoft System Center Operations  Manager, Configuration Manager and Data Protection Manager  ? Migration project moving over to new domain  ? Maintenance and growth of network  ? Transitioning to Cloud products including Azure AD and  ? Handled some Help Desk responsibilities in coordination with our Help  Desk Specialist.  ? Coordinated purchases of licenses, applications and equipment with selected vendors.  ? Facilitated training and wrote documentation for specific applications. Help Desk/Onsite Technician Roche Diagnostics - Fishers, IN October 2013 to November 2015 Contracted to Roche through Adecco Services. Working part of the contract as an over-the-phone Help Desk Technician.  ? Because of job experience, was requested to work as part of the Onsite team.  ? Worked with various groups on the Indianapolis Roche campus to troubleshoot and maintain HP desktops and laptops.  ? Worked with Active Directory and HP Service Management.  ? Worked with a skilled team to divide the work on campus and support many executives and directors responsible for Roche's interests in North America. Desktop Technician Apex Systems - Carmel, IN October 2012 to October 2013 ? Working within the St. Vincent Hospital network, which contained numerous clinics and administrative facilities, helped support, maintain, troubleshoot and replace Dell desktops and laptops.  ? Worked with various support groups within Ascension Health to troubleshoot and maintain the network infrastructure.  ? Managed workload and documented all jobs using tracking software known as Service Now.  ? Utilized customer service and communication skills to reach out to those with PC related issues. Management Trainee Fry's Electronics - Fishers, IN December 2011 to October 2012 Applied experienced customer service skills to interact at the front counter  of the Services Department.  ? Worked with urgency and purpose to troubleshoot and fix PCs, perform data backup, recover data and build new computer systems while selling services and alleviating the frustrations of customers. Education Bachelors in Media Arts and Science in Music Purdue University - Indianapolis, IN May 2006 Skills System Administrator, Active Directory (4 years), Troubleshooting (10+ years), Customer Service (10+ years), Computer Hardware (7 years), Windows Server (3 years)