Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Retail Imaging Management Group Vancouver, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Retail Imaging Management Group October 2018 to Present • Monitor system performance and day to day operations, while troubleshooting and resolving any issues that arise.  • Set up and maintain equipment for employee use, performing or ensuring proper installation of cables, hardware, phone systems, operating systems, and appropriate software. IT Specialist / Helpdesk Direct Marketing Solutions April 2017 to October 2018 • One of a two person IT team supporting 3 buildings, 170+ workstations, and 25 servers both in a production and office environment.  • Set up and maintain equipment for employee use, performing or ensuring proper installation of cables, hardware, phone systems, operating systems, and appropriate software.  • Project lead on our Endpoint Security transition, migrating and configuring our security system to Kaspersky Endpoint Security 10. Tier 2 Technician Supervisor Conduent November 2012 to April 2017 • Started as a Tier 1 technician and rose through the ranks to top job role; Tier 2 technician supervisor.  • Participate in weekly engineering meetings, discussing current emerging issues and trends in an effort to resolve software bugs through future updates.  • Develop training materials and procedures, and train users in the proper use of hardware and software.  • Apple Certified Macintosh Technician (Software and Hardware) Education High school or equivalent Skills SECURITY, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, EXCHANGE, LINUX, MS OFFICE, Vmware, System Administrator, System Admin Additional Information Skills and Qualifications  • Proven excellence in a fast paced IT environment.  • Effective at multitasking and working under pressure to achieve overall objectives.  • Experience using a ticketing system to receive, log, and prioritize support requests.  • Demonstrated knowledge of all software operating systems including Microsoft, macOS, and Linux.  • Skilled in troubleshooting and isolating issues to a root cause while logging all appropriate and relevant information.  • Continual experience with Active Directory, Exchange Servers, File Shares, and Server Manager.  • Deep understanding of Network Configuration and Security.  • Expert knowledge in most applications, including but not limited to MS Office and Adobe.