Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator Powell, WY To further my knowledge and experience in IT support and management and secure a position with a company comprised of a motivated and enthusiastic team of individuals. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator City of Cody - Cody, WY August 2015 to Present Perform daily operations related to the management of City-wide LAN/WAN networks; assist in enforcing policies for appropriate use of networks, computers, telephones, email, and applications; assists in developing processes and procedures designed to enhance efficiency and effectiveness of network operations; assist in managing projects related to the adoption of new hardware and software systems. Resolve system issues and provide all end-user support; perform on-site hardware repairs. Assist in evaluating, recommending, and procuring hardware and software solutions. Evaluate and monitors systems’ resource capacities; estimate hardware and software performance for current and future operations; perform installation, maintenance, and tuning of hardware and software systems; complete various projects involving software applications and Web services; implement procedural changes and reassign resources as needed to expedite return to service and operational system status. Provision and configure new user accounts and resources; provide end-user resources training of system resources, software applications, and audio/video equipment; assure technical levels of competency through participation in custom training and/or professionally sponsored programs. Monitor and maintain backup and recovery procedures to assure data protection in the event of system failure(s); document procedures and environments; develop and maintain a written disaster recovery plan. Communicate with vendors to expedite the resolution of problems. Keep abreast of Federal and State laws, regulations,court decisions, and other actions impacting technology, information, the World Wide Web, etc.; keep abreast of new trends and innovations in  technology. TACC Support Analyst IO Datacenter - Phoenix, AZ November 2014 to August 2015 Participated in the documentation, planning, and implementation of TACC/NOC infrastructure and customer-facing solutions. Managed service requests and change requests on time, and resolved assigned problems within the designated SLA. Contributed to the development and improvement of standards, guidelines, and procedures for IO TACC services and solutions. Worked with Operations, Engineering, and Product Support teams to solve issues requiring escalation. Ensured that proper documentation was provided for all supported products and standards. Stabilized environments, making sure that supported products and applications were always available per stated SLAs. Assisted with the integration of customer requirements as well as TACC/NOC policies, procedures, and standards into the overall service management and delivery model. Assisted in the ongoing development and maintenance of a common online documentation library/knowledgebase of standardized procedures and configurations. Willingness to work in a 24x7x365 shift rotation scheduled in order to support the success of the organization. Sr. Software Implementation Specialist ClickPoint Software - Scottsdale, AZ March 2014 to October 2014 Provided application assistance for the successful implementation of the SalesExec Lead Management software. Worked with clients to define, setup, and configure the software. Identified data setup issues. Tested bug fixes in a dev environment. Assisted clients with validation of data. Provided training and technical support to all clients after software has been configured and implemented. Call Coordinator/Support Engineer Enterprise Technology Services - Scottsdale, AZ September 2013 to March 2014 Monitored the activities of the support team; assigned requests for service to appropriate tech, monitored tickets to maintain service level agreements (SLA). Reviewed the status of active requests, revised priority as needed; followed up on all service requests to ensure problem resolution and customer satisfaction. Performed support tasks (application upgrades, system builds, installs and configuration, LAN troubleshooting, access and user accounts, support for applications and systems, etc). Managed and maintained asset inventory, and tracked movement of assets. Help Desk Support Technician Phoenix Elementary SD - Phoenix, AZ February 2013 to August 2013 Managed all activities related to the help desk including identification, prioritization, and resolution of problems. Dealt with request from end users and provided first level hardware and software support. Ensured that all phases of help desk support were coordinated, monitored, logged, tracked, and resolved appropriately. Provided monthly service reports to all schools and departments to show open, closed, and on-going work orders. Network Administrator Pine Cove Consulting/Big Horn County SD #4 - Basin, WY May 2008 to May 2012 Managed, configured, and upgraded servers and switches. Provided technical support, assistance, and training for students and school district personnel for all hardware and software related issues. Designed and maintained district website. Managed the district SIS (Infinite Campus). Installed and managed VOIP telephone systems and video surveillance system. Compiled information and submitted state reports as acting District WISE Coordinator. Education AAS in Computer Networking Northwest College - Powell, WY May 2007 Skills Active Directory, System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin