Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Infrastructure Professional Las Vegas, NV Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Diamond - Las Vegas, NV May 2018 to Present Responsible for day to day Infrastructure Administration, including but not limited to the Windows environment.  • File Share permissioning  • Office 365 Administration  • VMWare Administration  • Netbackup Administration / Tape Rotation, keeping up a running spreadsheet of tape backup errors and resolution for compliance purposes.  • Windows Active Directory Administration  • Windows Server 2008 R2 - Server 2016 builds/deployments  • Storage Administration  • Website builds - copying code to beta and production websites for developers as well as Server configuration changes when necessary Systems Engineer eCapital LLC - Las Vegas, NV January 2014 to April 2017 Responsible for day to day Infrastructure Operations, all Windows and Linux Systems engineering and project implementation from an infrastructure standpoint, Windows Active Directory Architecture, Engineering and Administration, DNS and DHCP Engineering and Administration  ? Responsible for Architecture, Engineering and Administration of Citrix XenDesktop Environment  ? Upgraded Citrix XenDesktop environment from 7.0->7.1->7.8->7.12  ? Responsible for Engineering and Administration of VMWare 5.1 Environment  ? Responsible for Engineering and Administration of Storage Environment including a Pure Storage Fast Disk Array as well as Starboard Storage for tier 3 Slow Disk storage  ? Re-Architected the File-Server Environment, separating Users' Roaming Profiles, Home Drives, Department Drives and Secured Data Drives to separate Clustered servers using DFS Replication while also lowering total disk cost, Architected an Asset/Inventory/Contract Management Solution for the company utilizing SAmanage for cloud based asset management  ? Provided tier 3 support, handled tier 1 & tier 2 support requests from Application Support and Service Desk personnel  ? Responsible for AV, Patch Management utilizing WSUS,  ? Responsible for all Data Center Rack/Stack and cabling activities as well as maintenance of Pure and Starboard SAN's, HP Blade Enclosures, HP Blades and Power/Cooling management  ? Assisted in moving the Carlsbad data center, was responsible for hardware rack/stack and cabling both hardware and network cabinets and the relocation of the Las Vegas office, was responsible for server rack/stack and cabling the cabinet Technical Account Manager Bluepoint Solutions - Henderson, NV July 2012 to February 2014 Responsible for the design, architecture and implementation of proprietary financial software as well as support of an assigned list of financial institutions  ? Maintained and managed client relationships with an emphasis on keeping clients best interests in mind  ? Support customized day one and day two item processing, electronic document management and mobile/home banking solutions  ? Engineer/administer windows 2003-2008 R2 servers with SQL 2000-2012 databases in single and split server environments  ? SQL database troubleshooting and database conversions from previous providers' solutions  ? Support Citrix XenApp/XenDesktop and VMWare View client environments ensuring software functionality and efficient client delivery  ? Support systems in both client data centers as well as mobile and home customers utilizing Bluepoint Solutions' provided multi-tenant data center while ensuring maximum up-time Citrix Engineer AmWins Group Inc - Charlotte, NC November 2011 to February 2012 Design and architect a Xenapp 6.5 environment utilizing Provisioning Services to provide a complete HA and DR solution  Test and upgrade existing applications to function in a pure x64 environment. Maintain, troubleshoot and support ongoing issues with the existing Citrix Presentation Server 4.5 environment  ? Acquire hardware to provide maximum performance and availability while staying within the provided budget Systems Management Analyst I MGM Resorts International - Las Vegas, NV August 2009 to May 2011 Complete Citrix environment support (Presentation Server 4-4.5 and XenApp 5-6, Citrix Access Gateway and Netscaler)  ? Responsible for the day to day administration, as well as expansion of the Citrix Farm for the Enterprise, including testing new applications as necessary to ensure functionality in the current environments, responsible for administering and troubleshooting HP Print Server Appliances and MS Server 2008 R2 Print Servers (Stand-alone and Clustered), responsible for administering DNS, DHCP at the enterprise level  ? Experience configuring deploying and updating Control 4 In-Room technology to City Center (Aria, Mandarin and Vdara) Computer Engineer III MGMMIRAGE Corp - Las Vegas, NV July 2005 to August 2009 Complete desktop and network support including AS/400 Casino Management Systems, Lodging Management Systems, Aristocrat and IGT Applications  ? Full hardware support for server, desktop, thin client and mobile devices  ? Experience with NRT Ticket-in/Ticket-out/ATM Kiosk setup, configuration and support server/client side, Experience with the installation and configuration of paperless office solutions such as R-File and Filenet, Experience with the installation and configuration of POS systems such as Micros and Infogenesis, Experience using Back-Up Solutions such as Symantec Backup Exec, Veritas, LoneTar and ArcNetIT Education Technical Diploma in Systems and Network Engineering and Administration Computer Education Institute - Henderson, NV 2003 to 2004 Diploma in General Studies Chaparral High School - Las Vegas, NV 1990 to 1994 Skills CITRIX (8 years), VMWARE (5 years), LINUX (3 years), SOLARWINDS (Less than 1 year), SCCM, System Administrator, Active Directory, System Admin Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  Platforms: Windows Server (2003-2016), Linux, Vmware, Citrix  Tools: XenApp/XenDesktop, Presentation Server, Pure Storage Arrays, Starboard Storage Arrays, Infoblox, Netscaler, Solarwinds