Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - US Army Leadership Abingdon, MD A highly motivated IT Professional and veteran capable of effectively and efficiently multitasking in fast paced technically advanced environments. Demonstrates leadership and decision-making acumen; working in teams to achieve objectives. Enjoys working with clients and troubleshooting technology problems. Is agile, adaptable, and self-motivated with a passion for teaching others. Enjoys learning new skills and taking on challenges. Has demonstrated expertise writing technical reports and documents for military and civilian audiences. Work Experience Systems Administrator US Army Leadership July 2018 to Present US Army CCDC  Alesig Consulting    As a Systems Administrator Mr. Engel is responsible for Enterprise wide patching using tools such as SCCM, PDQ deploy and WSUS for windows updates. In performing those duties Mr. Engel has built packages for both PDQ deploy and SCCM and has written specific batch files to run software installers. Mr. Engel has also built collections in SCCM using both direct and query rules to populate the collections. Mr. Engel is also responsible for reacting to machines that have known vulnerabilities and applying the appropriate patch/fix and then confirming that the vulnerabilities no longer exist by running ACAS scans. Mr. Engel was also heavily involved in the migration from Windows Server 2012 R2 to Windows Server 2016 and was personally responsible for building the new Windows 2016 print server, WSUS server and SCCM server and running SCAP scans to ensure that appropriate STIGs were applied. Junior Systems Administrator US Army Public Health center December 2017 to July 2018 ARS Aleut services    As a Junior Systems Administrator Mr. Engel is Responsible for daily maintenance, troubleshooting, upgrading of network servers via VMware VSphere ESXi, computer hardware, Software, peripheral equipment and business/laboratory applications. Mr. Engel has also been tasked with reserving IP address in DHCP for new network MFPs as well as setting up new network MFPs on the print servers. As a Junior Systems Administrator Mr. Engel has also set up new terminal servers for use by laboratory personal to access lab software not compatible on Windows 10. Mr. Engel was also the POC and SME for all above baseline software installations during APHC's Windows 10 migration. Senior Tier 3 Support Technician US Army Public Health center - Edgewood, MD June 2017 to December 2017 As a Senior Tier 3 Support Technician Mr. Engel is responsible for coordinating with offsite vendor support for installing and configuring laboratory machines and software critical to the mission at the Army Public Health Center. As a Senior Tier 3 Technician he is tasked with troubleshooting hardware problems such as bad hard drives, faulty mother boards, etc. and ensuring replacement parts are acquired and repairs are performed timely will equipment is under warranty, saving the government the extra cost for repairs performed outside the warranty period. Mr. Engel collaborates with the Systems Administration team for patching and updating systems that were not updated by SCCM or WSUS, as well as un-blocking systems in DHCP that were quarantined due to non-compliance. Mr. Engel acts as the primary point of contact for VIP users, such as the director of the Army Public Health Center, ensuring their issues are promptly and successfully resolved. Mr. Engel is responsible for assisting the networking team in troubleshooting network outages and latency issues, utilizing tools such as tracert, ping command and IPCONFIG. Additionally, Mr. Engel provides training for new team members to ensure they integrate and adapt to the environment at the Army Public Health Center. Mr. Engel performs data recovery operations on storage devices, this includes decrypting hard drives and recovering lost user data. Help Desk Tier US Army Public Health center - Edgewood, MD February 2017 to June 2017 Mr. Engel was a member of a small help desk team supporting more than 1000 user's across the campus of the US Army Public Health Center. Mr Engel was responsible for resolving a variety of technical issues ranging from basic PC troubleshooting, including PC boot issues and hardware malfunctions, to more advanced troubleshooting including VPN connection issues and network connectivity issue. Resolving these types of issues required Mr. Engel to interaction with end-users to gather data, perform analysis, and implement steps for resolution. Mr. Engel typically triaged 15-30 user tickets per day and successfully resolves 90% of issues he analyzes on the same day.    Mr. Engel coordinated with both the networking and systems administrators to resolve more complex issues. Mr. Engel regularly interacted with the Cyber Security team resolving issues involving potential malware/virus infection on a user's PC or to facilitate the installation of an application that has not yet been approved. Mr. Engel regularly assisted the System Administration team with individual machine software patching and validating equipment patch levels using SCCM. Help Desk Tier US Army Public Health center - Edgewood, MD July 2016 to February 2017 Mr. Engel was responsible for the Life Cycle Management of all Army Public Health Center user PCs. This included imaging/ reimaging PCs, installing software the user needs on the new machine as well as deploying and configuring new PC equipment, installing drivers for personal printers, adding network printers, and setting up the user's monitors. Mr. Engel assisted both the T2 helpdesk and T3 helpdesk teams in troubleshooting and resolving issues ranging from simple hardware problems such as a monitor that is not working to complicated software/ PC related issues that may require reinstallation of software or a full reimage of the PC. Mr. Engel was responsible for the setup of new scientific Lab computers which require very specific configurations and installing of specialty software. Mr. Engel assisted the communications team with basic network troubleshooting on the layer 1 level as well basic re-cabling.    Mr. Engel was responsible for maintaining accountability of the PC inventory and relaying the status of the inventory to both immediate management as well as the client. Mr. Engel was frequently assigned the responsibility, by the client, to apply his expert technical knowledge to provide specifications for specific printers and PCs for certain users that had specialized needs. Technology Operations Representative Canon Solutions America - Washington, DC December 2014 to July 2016 Mr. Engel was a member of the Technology Solutions and Support team, providing hands-on Level 2 (T2) and Level 3 (T3) network support for a fleet of over 1000 Multi-Function Devices (MFD) and networked printing devices. Mr. Engel was responsible for delivering end-user training and mentoring/coaching Canon staff members on new Canon MFD technologies and solutions. Mr. Engel had the responsibility for installing, configuring, and supporting the Canon Uniflow print management and Netaphor Site Audit suite of tools and performing operational monitoring of the MFD/Printer fleet. Mr. Engel was responsible for rapid response to reported operational and performance issues. He was responsible for managing the resources required to successfully resolve reported issues within the bounds of the operational Service Level Agreements (SLA). Mr. Engel interacted daily with the client, communicating status of trouble tickets, responding to general questions, and providing group and one-on-one training to ensure there complete understanding of the Canon systems. Monthly, Mr. Engel personally responded to 30 trouble tickets daily.    Mr. Engel was responsible for deploying new printers and MFDs to the dedicated print servers and ensuring their proper configuration in the uniFLOW print management system. Mr. Engel was responsible for configuring new MFDs/Printers and adding the appropriate 802.1x digital certificate prior to deploying the MFD/printer. Mr. Engel was responsible for coordinating with the client IT staff on schedule and risks prior to deploying new MFDs/Printers to ensure the network configurations (e.g. Ethernet ports) for the deployment locations are active and on the correct VLAN. Recently, Mr. Engel was assigned the role of project team lead for a project to upgrade the firmware on 1000 MFD/Printers installed across the World Bank Fleet and successfully completed the project on time.    Technologies:  • PDQ Deploy • Active Directory  • Windows 10 • NetBackup/ VEEAM VMware vSphere ESXi 2016 to 2016