Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Chillicothe, IL Technology professional with experience managing enterprise implementations of healthcare information and EMR systems. Expert in gathering, analyzing and defining business and functional requirements; creating global metrics, trend charts and other decision-making tools; leading data-modeling and process-mapping initiatives; and designing/re-engineering processes, workflows and technology solutions for healthcare systems and networks. Proven ability to lead seamless implementations and deliver next-generation technical solutions improving revenues, margins and workplace productivity. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Midwest Orthopeadics Center - Peoria, IL April 2017 to Present • Assists in the planning and implementation of additions, deletions and major modifications to the supporting regional infrastructure.  • Administer Office 365 Exchange and users as needed.  • Implements network security  • Oversees the administration and maintenance of the company's infrastructure and WAN  • Manages and develops upgrades to the company's telephone system  • Oversees all telephone changes, including routing for seating assignments.  • Oversees troubleshooting, systems backups, archiving, and disaster recovery and provides expert support when necessary.  • Works with project teams to help implement Internal Systems.  • Responds to escalated help desk issues.  • Oversees the administration and maintenance of our tracking software.  • Interacts with internal clients on all levels to help resolve IT-related issues and provides answers in a timely manner.  • Builds and maintains vendor relationships and manages the purchase of hardware and software products.  • Manages the purchasing of all software, hardware and other IT supplies.  • Ensures that company assets are maintained responsibly.  • Supports/maintains desktops, notebooks, tablets, printers, servers, and all networking equipment at multiple sites.  • Provide remote access solution support.  • Plan and implement cloud connectivity using best practices and secure methods.  • Develop and maintain a productive working relationship with the customer and third party suppliers Systems Administrator Soderstrom Skin Institute - Peoria, IL March 2013 to April 2017 • Diagnose hardware and software problems, and replace defective components.  • Over saw the implementation of the EHR system.  • Perform data backups and disaster recovery operations.  • Maintain and administer computer networks and related computing environments, including computer hardware, systems software, applications software, and all configurations.  • Plan, coordinate, and implement network security measures in order to protect data, software, and hardware.  • Operate master consoles in order to monitor the performance of computer systems and networks, and to coordinate computer network access and use.  • Perform routine network startup and shutdown procedures, and maintain control records.  • Design, configure, and test computer hardware, networking software and operating system software.  • Confer with network users about how to solve existing system problems.  • Monitor network performance in order to determine whether adjustments need to be made, and to determine where changes will need to be made in the future.  • Train people in computer system use.  • Recommend changes to improve systems and network configurations, and determine hardware or software requirements related to such changes.  • Made changes and maintained Cisco pone system.  • Setup routers and network that connects multiple computers with each other.  • Provide remote access solution support. Sr network engineer CIAN - Peoria, IL November 2011 to March 2013 • Create and maintain computer networks for an organization  • Setup, maintain and repair technological network equipment, such as routers or other devices  • Complies with all company training programs for new hires and existing staff to insure success of the site(s).  • Setup racks and equipment in data center for clients.  • Conducts performance reviews for direct reports according to position responsibilities and objectives.  • Supervises, motivates, and retains employees to ensure successful operation of the sites  • Maintains customer satisfaction up to and including taking complaints and communicating with patients  • Provides technical assistance to other patient services managers or staff  • Facilitates and leads meetings as necessary to support the team and site(s)  • Complies with and ensures annual training protocols are followed  • Maintains proper office supply inventory and coordinates the ordering, receipt and payment of all office supplies in compliance with purchasing policies  • Ensures that all staff exhibit excellent customer service skills in all contacts and that all activity is in support of the companies' mission statement.  • Responsible for the delivery of network planning, design, implementation & optimization services as a post sales consultant.  • Lead the delivery of network solutions including routers, switches, firewalls, load balancers and other network hardware appliances.  • Oversee/perform new and existing equipment, hardware, and software upgrades.  • Perform installation, configuration, maintenance, and troubleshooting of customer managed hardware, software, and peripheral devices.  • Monitor network performance and troubleshoot problem areas as needed.  • Conduct research on network products, services, protocols, and standards to remain abreast of developments in the networking industry.  • Provide remote access solution support.  • Documentation of network designs and standards IT Analyst Caterpillar - Peoria, IL October 2010 to October 2011 • Implement, support, and inventory control of applications and licenses used.  • Support priority 1 calls on line down and critical software down.  • Participated in integrated testing and user acceptance of application and or infrastructure components.  • Worked directly on application/technical problem identification and resolution. Cable Technician 2 Comcast - Peoria, IL October 2009 to September 2010 • Install new services such as, digital cable, telephone, internet, and wireless networks.  • Troubleshoot customer's problems from the pole to inside the house, including company owned and customer owned equipment. System Administrator / User Analyst Weissman's Designs - St. Louis, MO December 2006 to August 2009 • Supported server, network and desktop hardware, software and applications, including switches, routers, POS systems, bar code scanners, mobile phones, telephone system, running and terminating cables, and end user support for 300+ users.  • Develop and maintain installation and configuration procedures.  • Perform daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware, server resources, systems and key processes, reviewing system and application logs, and verifying completion of scheduled jobs such as backups. Technical Support Representative Convergys - Hazelwood, MO January 2004 to November 2006 • Receive calls from the clients' customers to solve or re-direct their technical inquiries.  • Provided support on software, hardware and the Internet of in-depth knowledge of Windows and PC hardware/software installation. Launching Station Enhanced Operator/Maintainer U.S. Army - Fort Bliss, TX May 1999 to November 2003 • Supervised crew of 5 in daily operations, including monthly evaluation, discipline and scheduling of duties.  • Responsible for maintaining minimal down time of equipment. Operated and maintained a complex missile system.  • Utilized internal/external diagnostic equipment to isolate and repair faulty components. Education Associate of Applied Science degree in Applied Science ITT Technical Institute - Arnold, MO Skills Active Directory, Service Desk, Cisco, exchange, vmware, sql, customer service, networking Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: E-4