Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Infinetworks, llc Hudson, NH Work Experience Systems Administrator Infinetworks, llc - Naples, FL September 2009 to Present Network Consultant  • Manage networks in multiple offices, keeping in contact with small business owners and keeping up  with business needs in a competitive environment that seeks to minimize technological costs.  • Assess current networks, spot inefficiencies in systems and procedures that affect work flow, perform  cost-benefit analysis in order to maximize benefits of cutting-edge technologies in developing small  businesses.  • Create plans that incorporate current needs as well as prospective planning for growth & support.  • Coordinate consultants for specialty services or special customer needs including but not limited to:  Complex websites with CMS's, phone systems for call centers, POS (Point of Sales Machines),  Electronic health systems, integrating medical equipment with existing servers/databases. Helpdesk Coordinator / Project Coordinator (contract) Hitchiner Mfg - Milford, NH February 2016 to February 2017 Manager: MIS Supervisor / Dan Ercha  • Responsible for managing a team of 12 programmers, desktop and network personnel supporting 700  computers and over 1,000 employees between US and Mexico.  • Introduced staff management reforms following recognized industry standard ITIL practices. Including  daily stand up meetings, weekly project meetings and ticket priority based on impact to the company and urgency to the employee.  • Successfully converted in-house ticket/asset management solution to SolarWinds WHD solution.  • Increased average first response time of new tickets from twenty eight hours to one hour,  decreased abandoned tickets to zero.  • Simplified change management and self-service, engaging employees & reducing non-reporting of issues by 75%, (yearly average of 1,000 total tickets a year). Business Products Technical Support Engineer Kaspersky Lab - Woburn, MA February 2015 to September 2015 Hired by: Senior Director / Anthony Bellia  • Provide core technical support to Kaspersky's largest corporate clients in English and Spanish.  (Inside the United States, Canada and Latin America).  • Deploy and configure security infrastructure for advanced antivirus/antimalware, web filtering, threat  detection/management, application control, systems & portable device management.  • Develop relationships with clients, having a strong focus on customer happiness & retention.  • Take ownership of dissatisfied accounts, with a 100% success rate of de-escalation and conflict  resolution of these cases. While 90% of general customers giving positive feedback.  • Train, outline & architect solutions for customers wanting Kaspersky's Total Security in their  network. Systems Administrator Goodwill industries of SWFL - Naples, FL January 2014 to October 2014 Hired by: IT Director / Jamie Dunn  • Implemented McAfee products to secure the internal POS network to comply with PCI-DSS:  McAfee ePO, Security Information & Event Management (SIEM), Anti-Virus, Application Control.  • Implemented conversion from Cisco ASA endpoint devices at each retail location to Dell SonicWalls  creating and configuring: VPN's, Secured Firewalls, and IPS's.  • Supported multiple in-house autonomous networks which included separate instances of AD, DHCP,  DNS, Exchange, Anti-virus (Symantec), Shadow Protect Backup, SharePoint, SQL, Citrix Xen-Center.  • Of those networks, each requiring different levels of security in compliance with laws and policies,  all amounting to more than a thousand nodes.  • Managed three nonprofit client sites as part of Goodwill's professional services department. Network Administrator / Health Information Technology Director Advanced Medical Center - Naples, FL December 2006 to October 2013 Hired by: Practice Administrator / LoriAnn Martell  • Maintain all things having a network identity, including all hardware/software that interfaces  with Servers/Computers/Network (ex: EKG Machines, Lab equipment, Drug/Alcohol testers).  • Ensure protection through Security/Antivirus software McAfee Small Business Security.  Experience  • Plan and implement additions, deletions and major modifications to the supporting    infrastructure between two sites integrated via VPN in coordination with corporate leadership.  • Anticipate future network needs, identifying proactive solutions while satisfying HIPAA requirements.  Purchasing, configuring and installing: servers, workstations, core switches, routers, office printers.  • Hold responsibility for IT staffing, budgeting projections, consultant management and technical  additions to employee manual.  • Special projects include: Converting all physical servers to a virtual server environment, integrating  EHR with our current website to better satisfy patient needs, create a meshed wireless network allowing  Doctors and Nurses to move around uninterrupted with their tablets & mobile devices.  • Finished projects include: Converting to a paperless office, moving office to a high-tech building, and migrating practice data across multiple EHR/EPM suites while maintaining patient data availability. Network Administrator DataStream Group, Inc - Naples, FL March 2006 to December 2006 Hired by: Supervisor / Stephen Reinertsen  • Maintained all aspects of marketing company's main office network, a hybrid environment with multiple Windows 2003, Windows 2000, Linux and Windows XP machines.  • Deployed and maintained Linux (Centos, Debian and Gentoo) servers throughout the state at various  co-locations for load balancing and efficient distribution of processing across multiple platforms.  • Purchased, configured and installed: servers, workstations, Cisco switches, wireless routers, print  servers for all locations throughout Florida.  • Processed contracts/forms for various ISP's and government agencies for computer services rendered  and received. System Support Technician District School Board of Collier County - Naples, FL September 2000 to March 2006 Supervisor / Tom Petry  • Compiled custom kernel for use in county wide production servers & workstations. Personally,  supported six Novell Servers, two Windows NT servers and a Linux server.  • Supported 814 nodes, including desktops, laptops, peripherals & specialty equipment connected over Token ring, Ethernet and wireless with over 200 registered users between multiple campuses.  • Lead special projects including: Upgrading phone systems and implementing new  computers/software to integrate with existing software/hardware.  • Troubleshot switches and VOIP phones in an all Cisco switched network.  • Conceptualized and implemented multiple necessary aspects of network function,  including but not limited to: Creating an inexpensive and dependable backup  system, work order system for timely and organized execution of support  requests, network distributed printing services, advanced remote management, and shared server space allocation management. Network Consultant Rick Johnson Automotive & Tire - Naples, FL November 2005 to February 2006 Business Contact: Owner / Rick Johnson  • Maintained network integrity between seven stores in an all windows (2000 server, LAN/WAN)  environment.  • Installed and fixed POS machines (point of sales).  • Sustained high quality of service for employees to access servicing information.  • Accommodated customers with wireless laptops to connect to the internet while they wait. Information Services Desktop Support Certified Diabetic Services - Naples, FL June 2000 to September 2000 Hired by: Supervisor / Lisa Russell  • Supported computers, point of sales machines, supervised employee conduct on computers.  • Installed, supported and updated 2 Windows NT servers.  • Ran medical reports on a UNIX server that interfaced with hospitals.  • Updated and manage digital telephone systems. Computer Services of Naples - Naples, FL January 1999 to June 1999 Computer Support  Hired by: Supervisor / Ann Guididas  • Assembled, Upgraded and Troubleshot computers.  • Installed, Updated software in-house and remotely. Education Composition Edison State College 2000 to 2002 Lorenzo Walker Institute of Technology - Naples, FL 1998 to 2000 electronics Cisco Training Academy Skills Linux, System Admin, Vmware, System Administrator, Active Directory