Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Office 365/Exchange Administration Newport News, VA Work Experience Systems Administrator Delphinus Engineering - Norfolk, VA September 2018 to Present • Field all incoming calls, emails and tickets for internal users • Document all troubleshooting steps for future reference • Create knowledge base documents for all new and current issues faced • Assist with creating company SOP's • Assist with McAfee/DISA EOP implementation • Ordered all new equipment for company • Troubleshoot and create company machine images • Troubleshoot VPN issues • Create and manage user accounts in Active Directory • Provide proper permissions for system • Assist in managing Sharepoint as well as the company's main webpage • Troubleshoot and manage Deltek/GoGlobal software • Office 365/Exchange Administration • Create and manage all system file shares • Printer Troubleshooting System Administrator National Endowment of the Arts - Washington, DC February 2018 to August 2018 • Provide support to the customer onsite by answering, evaluating and prioritizing incoming telephone, voice mail and email requests for assistance from approximately 200 users experiencing problems with hardware, software, networking and other computer-related issues.  • Resolve customer service requests over the telephone, through desktop consultation with users, or by using remote management software.  • Maintain documentation on service desk procedures, problem resolution, prioritization and emergency procedures, as well as, maintain and update a service desk knowledge management system.  • Provide support to the client with the research, installation, maintenance, operation and troubleshooting of audio and video presentation equipment for several conference rooms and departments.  • Provide VPN support services. Configure, and deploy new equipment, as required.  • Provide onsite support after-hours and/or during weekend hours to respond to emergency customer issues.  • Provide basic telephone support such as connecting VOIP telephones, troubleshooting phone port issues, loading and configuring ShoreTel software and mobile phone, and mobile phone email configuration support.  • Monitor all backups, troubleshooting, vendor support contact, media changing, media handling, media inventorying, and problem resolution of backups.Assist with implementing and deploying the new Windows 10 image.  • Set up accounts and workstations within Active Directory.  • Develop monthly lunch and learn training for users • Assist with A/V hardware and software installation and maintenance • Sharepoint Administration • Make recommendations for future upgrades Support Technician (Second Level) Ferguson Enterprise February 2017 to February 2018 • Served as initial point of contact to provide troubleshooting for a variety of hardware and software issues.  • Provided support for software such as Office 365, Trilogie, Calabrio, browsers (Chrome, Internet Explorer), and Citrix, troubleshooting and installing as needed.  • Provided support for hardware and connected devices, including desktops, laptops, printers, scanners, credit card machines, ePODs, and mobile devices.  • Ensured that Ferguson issued cellphones and tablets were up to standards by educating users on best firmware practices.  • Gathered required information for requests for access to shared inboxes, shared drives, calendars, and other items that required special permissions, escalating the tickets as a request to Systems Access.  • Provides a high level of technical support to associates with a focus on customer service.  • Responsible for analyzing and troubleshooting basic to complex technical problems and providing solutions using the latest technologies.  • Work with other teams within IT to ensure that customer issues and requests are resolved quickly.  • Follow the established procedures and guidelines of the IT Support management team to provide excellent support and customer service.  • Properly document and log all report technical issues, requests, or inquiries in ticket logging tool.  • Participates in associate meetings and communicates any concerns to management. Cyber Communications Specialist Tidewater Financial February 2016 to February 2017 • Handle electronic communications such as two way texting, general questions from Tidewater's website, web chat, email and web applications • Provide help desk support to Tidewater's customers and dealers • Ensure adherence to company policies and procedures in addition to compliance of state and federal regulations • Participate in special projects or performs duties in other areas as requested • Assist in building company initial mobile app • Assist in the implementation of SEO policies for company website • Developed Apps and programs to provide assistance to company agents in daily tasks.  • Provide insight to new technological programs that may assist in company's daily operation.  • Administrative support for in house systems • Assist in producing excel and access spreadsheets for company productivity levels • Provide Security support and insight for company network • Assist with creating/implementing training on new software Technician, Network Target August 2009 to 2015 United States Navy Assist in network security for the Navy. With extreme attention to detail performs in depth system analysis as well as sensor operations. Executed extended watch floor hours monitoring the department of the navy network as part of navy cyber defense operations command.  • Windows and Unix operating Systems • Supervised personnel delivering numerous products filling the Operational commitments of worldwide operational needs • Microsoft Office, Word, Excel, and printing • Windows networking Administration • Computer hardware/architecture • Programming concepts in multiple programming languages • Network concepts and protocols • Computer network defense • Wireless network technologies • Router configuration and security • Protocol security • Concepts in forensics and malware analysis • Target research and Signal intelligence analysis • Active exploitation Education Navy A School 2009 to 2010 Saint Augustine's College - Raleigh, NC 2008 to 2009 Phoebus high school - Hampton, VA 2005 to 2008 Skills System Administrator, Active Directory, System Admin Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: e5