Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Planned Futures Financial Group Colorado Springs, CO Work Experience Systems Administrator Planned Futures Financial Group - Colorado Springs, CO Present • Technical support with transition to new Office Manager and personnel.  • Setup and configure new computer systems.  • Update all computer systems including OS and applications.  • Perform backups of critical systems.  • Training of new employees. Senior Systems Administrator Nations Holding Company - Prairie Village, KS May 2009 to December 2018 • Built and managed servers and applications that run on them.  • Introduced Windows Server 2008 and Server 2012 into the network.  • Introduced and implemented Hyper V.  • Manager of Desktop Support.  • Built, deployed and managed Websense 7.5 through Forcepoint Triton APX 8.3.  • Built infrastructure in cities around the country and deployed and administered System Center 2012 R2 Configuration Manager (SCCM)  • Built and administered System Center Operations Manager 2012 (SCOM)  • Documentation, including IT policies, supporting the companies SAS 70 Type II certification  • Assisted VP of IT in day to day operations of the Network Team Systems Administrator Premiere Global Services Inc - Colorado Springs, CO May 2000 to July 2008 • Built, configured and maintained over 200 HP/Compaq servers running Microsoft Windows NT4, Microsoft Windows 2000 Server and Advanced Server, Windows 2003 Standard, Enterprise and Web Server and Windows 2008 Server.  • Manager of Tivoli backup and storage library for both onsite and offsite storage.  • Member of team that built a network infrastructure from 50 servers to over 250 servers. Desktop Support for Premiere Global Services Tek Systems - Colorado Springs, CO November 1999 to May 2000 • Built and maintained desktop PC systems running Microsoft Windows 98, Windows 2000 Professional and Windows XP.  • Supported end user PC's including application support. Field Network Technician for COX cable Tek Systems - Costa Mesa, CA August 1999 to October 1999 • Network Technician installing broadband cable modems, Network Interface Cards and @ Home software packages.  • Installed and configured Netscape Communicator, Microsoft Internet Explorer with @ Home's proprietary internet software. Setup online email accounts for @ Home customers.  • Troubleshoot PC issues and trained customers in the usage of the @ Home Internet software. Lead Technician/Phone Support Specialist Tek Systems - Aliso Viejo, CA June 1999 to August 1999 • Supervised a team of phone support specialists providing support and direction and helping other technicians when problems would arise.  • Responsible for assisting customers with a hardware upgrade and conversion to DHCP server.  • Assist end users and troubleshoot problems with Windows Operating Systems. Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, DNS, SCOM, WEBSENSE, MANAGEMENT CONSOLE, OPERATIONS MANAGER, RAID, R2, STORAGE AREA NETWORKS, NETSUITE, MS OFFICE, SYMANTEC, OPERATIONS, MICROSOFT WINDOWS, WINDOWS 10, WINDOWS 2000, WINDOWS 2003, WINDOWS 7, WINDOWS 8, WINDOWS 98 Additional Information IT Skills    Operating System Experience - Extensive work experience with Microsoft Windows NT Server 4.0, Windows 2000 Server and Advanced Server, Windows 2003 Server, Standard, Enterprise and Web editions, Windows 2008 Server, Windows 2012 Server, Windows Server 2016, Windows 98, Windows 2000 Professional, Windows XP (all), Windows Vista (all), Windows 7, Windows 8 (all), Windows 10.    Application Experience - MS Office 2000, 2003, 2010, 2013, 2016, Symantec Server and Desktop. SecureCare, Websense, Exchange5.5., 2000, 2003, 2007, 2010, Netwrix, Heat, Netsuite and DCL ticketing systems, System Center 2012 R2 Configuration Manager, System Center 2012 Operations Manager.    Work Experience Skills -  • Creating network login and assign access  • Set-up e-mail accounts  • Researching client issues (domestic and global)  • Creating and implementing solution(s)  • Recording issue/resolution in ticketing system  • Monitor production server environment to proactively solve problems  • Research new technologies and provide written documentation to support implementation need  • Identify equipment needs, research and submit purchase requisitions  • Ensure server configuration documentation is current and correct  • Design and implement new technologies  • Support new technologies after roll out. (Hyper V, SCCM 2012, SCOM 2012, etc)  • Support External/Internal DNS for company globally  • Troubleshoot any Logon issues as well as Active Directory issues that come up  • Troubleshoot and solve hardware issues with servers  • Support the IS and R&D group extensively through their projects both hardware and network related  • Maintenance on virus servers. Verifying that the servers and workstations are getting the latest updates  • Patching of servers and workstations in all locations  • Build and configure servers as needed, including Shoretel Phone servers as specified by Shoretel  • Build and support RAID arrays  • Maintain knowledge of server operating systems and configurations  • Provide service and support after hours and be available to be on call for irregular hours, as needed  • Maintain and report issues with Anti-Virus logs, ensure thru management console that patches are up to date  • Maintain and update all configuration documentation for servers  • Build, configure and maintain clustered servers  • Knowledge of Storage Area Networks  • Maintain web servers and other production environment equipment  • Provide service and support for any tasks for internal and/or external clients  • Provide end-user and third-level support for NT-based applications  • Maintain hardware and software on servers    Soft Skills    • Excellent verbal and written skills, including documentation skills    • Excellent working relationships with executives, management, peers, clients, and end-users    • Excellent troubleshooting skills and work ethic