Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System administrator Atlanta, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator DAWSON - Fort Gordon, GA November 2018 to Present Building, configuration and troubleshooting of server and desktop hardware.  Maintaining maximum availability of supported services for users.  Designing, implementing and managing Active Directory.  Involved on creating master spread sheet for PC hardware  Maintain Database and IIS server in AZURE  Maintain DISA STIG update Systems Administrator ITSAP July 2018 to September 2018 SAP Basis administration (Remote)  Working knowledge in SAP Central Process Scheduling CPS configurations and job scheduling Manage Backfill  Involved EDW Hana Project  Maintain incident and request ticket  Adding system  System monitoring Sr. System Analyst State Department - Washington, DC November 2016 to July 2017 • Managing engineering and Dailey operation BES12 Server  • Testing and analyze configuration of BES 12.  • Updating software and hardware from BES10 to BES 12 in Windows server 2012 OS.  • Maintain and administration MS SQL Server.  • Migrated users from Bes10 to BES12  • Configure IOS with BES12 UEM  • Support federal RMF program such as accreditation package development and security control testing or validation  • Host Based Security System (HBSS) implementations including the configuration and monitoring of HBSS Fragmentary Orders (FRAGO)  • Expose to with Nessus Security Center and Scanners  • Resolved TIER 3 incident ticket  • Testing Samsung Knox for NIST standard to meet the criteria of Information Assurance  • Configure active sync and manage MS exchange 2010/ 2013  • Developed organizational units in Active Directory (AD) and managed user security with group policies.  • Configured Group Policy Objects to create a secure Windows Infrastructure.  • Provided third level help desk support for problems relating to Active Directory.  • Created user ID's, roles, groups OU's etcTesting and analyze configuration of BES 12. Linux Administrator OST-Clarksburg, WV Client May 2016 to July 2016 • Installation, configuration and maintenance of RedHat Linux servers.  • Performed server installation using Network-Based Kickstart and DVD on physical servers, VMware  and OVM.  • System Configuration/hardening by turning off unnecessary services.  • Disk configuration, created and managed File Systems.  • User management, creating and managing user account, groups and access levels.  • Monitoring System Performance of Virtual memory, Management Swap Space, Disk utilization and CPU  utilization. Created, managed and troubleshoot LVM.  • Implemented IPTable and ACL on RedHat Linux servers. Systems automation using Shell scripting  • Managed system processes and scheduling processes with the Cron utility.  • Managed Tomcat server.  • Supported back-end applications on RHEL servers. Involved in complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process by analyzing business requirements and understanding the functional work flow of information from source systems to destination systems. SAP BASIS system analyst VRC ESG TAD/PGS Client June 2015 to January 2016 • Built a database based on information from PM and AMC Critical Functions (MCFs)  • Created a trend report based on ECC Systems logs (SAP).  • Analysis of Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM) through tracking of test result vs system logs.  • Create report in excel via pivot table/VLOOKUP and graphs based on trend report between MCF task and ECC system Logs (SM21).  • Create report using SAP BO. (AD-HOC report, Dash board, Chart)  • Update and suggest PM about the clarification of errors within the log evaluation and MCF  • Worked in Integration, Scope, Time-Cost , Quality and Risk Management  • Analyzed System/Business requirements and Implemented Storyboards for best design  • Applying Patches to SAP GUI for SAP Logon Pad and distribute the Patch to End users  • Table space & DATA File maintenance like extending table space, adding data file, resizing data file using BR Tools  • Transport: A lots of Transport from both command line and TMS (SE01, SE10)  • Responsible for performance tuning (ST03, ST04)  • Maintenance and administration incident and resolve daily task servers' overview, work process, global work process.  • Analyze system logs and identify the system performance/ system health.  • Ensured performance issue is addressed and is available at each project phase and industry standard benchmark.  • Performed tuning the R3 basis system, server service with most appropriate, database connection buffer  • Create users, applying notes and applying support package.  • Scrap Managed by SAP  • CIF Customizing in the ERP system  • Extensive work on R3 Authorization Model PFGS,SU24,SU25,SU01,SM30, SU21, SUIM, SARA,COGI  • Applying Patches to SAP GUI for SAP Logon Pad and distribute the Patch to End users  Table space & DATA File maintenance like extending table space, adding data file, resizing data file using BR Tools  • Worked in Detailed review reports for describing designing solutions  • Administrate R3, including performance tuning, trouble shooting.  • Verify approvals on user access modifications  • Utilize the Profile Generator to build new SAP Security Roles  • Utilize the SAP Profile Generator to modify existing SAP Security Roles/profiles  • Central User Administration  • Enhance SAP/R3 OLTP Extraction (LO, FI, HR) SEM Extractors  • End user technical support by responding to Incident Tickets  • System Monitoring and preventive maintenance: Posting aborted, spool performance, enqueuer, shortage using transaction rz03, sm13, sm37, st03, npad, sp01, sm50, sm51, sm66, su01, scc4  • Start and Stop SAP system in OS level  • Maintain Database backup logs, monitor DB locks  • Assist functional and developments team.  • Expose to HANA and familiar with SAP HANA systems in the SAP HANA Studio and SAP solution Manager  • Activate and Configure Auditing for SAP HANA Database and if there are any issues they must be resolved  • Troubleshooting User Authorization problems using SU53 and ST01  • Worked on Authorization objects, fields, authorizations, authorization profiles.  • Configuration of CUA(Central user administration SR System Administrator Eluminates Software CLIENT May 2014 to June 2015 • Overall responsible for BES Server and Good Server administration, configuration and associates MS SQL server 2008.  • Responsible for administering Server, Microsoft Active Directory, (Microsoft Windows 2003/2008 Servers) VMware ESX 3.x/4.x, and hardware encryption;  Image desktop and upgrade software and hardware  • Diagnose the BES system and configure BES server which resulted 99% efficiency compare to routinely outage of Bes server  • Introducing Linux (RED HAT) servers to the network, integrating new hardware into the environment. OS installation, standard  • and advance (net and jumpstart) installation and advance (net and jumpstart) installation.  • Configure new and existing servers to march required setting.  • Create, delete, troubleshoot and manage user accounts.  • Installing and configuring new SQL Servers (SQL 2008 and 2012) for Upgrading and Migrating databases from SQL 2008 R2 to 2012 in test and production environment  • Configuring and Maintaining Mirroring, Fail-Over Clustering using SQL Server 2008 R2 and Always on for High availability solutions.  • Responsible for developed and implemented SSIS Solutions and Configuring, Deploying, and Maintaining Reporting Services/SSRS  • Configure new and existing servers to march required setting.  • Prepared and maintained documentation of technologies, standards and procedures by ITIL  • Added and removed server roles and features; configured AD Domain Services roles; configured network infrastructure roles;  Configured IIS on Server Core.  • Resolved incident ticket over the phone or remote connection and documented BMC remedy system  • Request Change for update patches via Remedy change management module  • Updated patches via Big-Fix  • Maintain network security and system security  • Configured automatic updates for network clients by using Group Policy.  • Administered change management related to server upgrades and software installation  • Prepared and maintained documentation of technologies, standards and procedures by ITIL  • Added and removed server roles and features; configured AD Domain Services roles; configured network infrastructure roles;  Configured file and print services; configured IIS on Server Core.  • Created the Forest Root domain, and a Child domain in a production environment.  • Installed and configured an Active Directory Domain Controller.  • Established external trusts and cross-forest trusts.  • Managed an Active Directory site; replication schedules, site links and boundaries, used ADUC to create and manage computer,  • user and group accounts in an Active Directory environment System Administrator TSA DHS - Arlington, VA August 2013 to May 2014 • Managing engineering and Dailey operation GOOD/BES/Exchange/Windows Servers  • Administered change management related to server upgrades and software installation.  • Secured BlackBerry devices following DoD Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIG)  • Prepared and maintained documentation of technologies, standards and procedures by ITIL  • Added and removed server roles and features; configured AD Domain Services roles; configured network infrastructure roles;  • Configured file and print services; configured IIS on Server Core.  • Installed, configured, and provide troubleshooting for Server 2008/2012  • Created the Forest Root domain, and a Child domain in a production environment.  • Installed and configured an Active Directory Domain Controller.  • Established external trusts and cross-forest trusts.  • Managed an Active Directory site; replication schedules, site links and boundaries, used ADUC to create and manage computer,  • User and group accounts in an Active Directory environment.  • Performed authoritative and non-authoritative restore operations.  • Configured automatic updates for network clients by using Group Policy.  • Download windows patches and install via with SCCM  • Proficient with batch scripting and power shell  • Monitor network security (Wireshark, Spalunk, Whatsup. Arcsight Defense (Pentagon) System Administrator BAE Systems (I&S) - Arlington, VA December 2010 to July 2013 SAP Basis Administrator  • SAP EHP5 for SAP ERP 6.0 Installation with Oracle.  • Transport Management System Creation of Domain, Administration & Checking RFC in landscape.  • Clients Management client copy, remote copy, export & import client within in landscape.  • Printer setup in SAP identified the critical areas for printing, Configured Label printer & Spool Administration.  • Configured and monitored the background processing jobs in System. Scheduled and monitored the batch jobs.  • Controlling Database administration using BRTOOLS.  • Perform System Refresh Activity (Backup Restore / SAPINST).  • Security Related Activities  • In GRC tool I mostly worked on Access control (RAR,ARA) risk analysis, mitigation and remediation activities  • Monitoring systems daily and if there are any issues they must be resolved  • Troubleshooting User Authorization problems using SU53 and ST01  • Worked on Authorization objects, fields, authorizations, authorization profiles.  • Configuration of CUA(Central user administration  • Applying Patches to SAP GUI for SAP Logon Pad and distribute the Patch to End users  • Administrate R3, including performance tuning, trouble shooting.  • Verify approvals on user access modifications  • Utilize the Profile Generator to build new SAP Security Roles  • Utilize the SAP Profile Generator to modify existing SAP Security Roles/profiles  • Central User Administration  • Enhance SAP/R3 OLTP Extraction (LO, FI, HR) SEM Extractors  • End user technical support by responding to Incident Tickets  • System Monitoring and preventive maintenance: Posting aborted, spool performance, enqueuer, shortage using transaction rz03, sm13, sm37, st03, npad, sp01, sm50, sm51, sm66, su01, scc4.  • System Copy: Perform client copies local and remote (client export/import at UNIX  • Level and SAP R/3 GUI).  • Print Management: Printer setup both in operating system level and SAP, as well as trouble shooting any printer issues for customers.  • Transport: A lots of Transport from both command line and TMS  • SAPDBA: Use SAPDBA to manage data file(s) in table space(s)  • Involved in gathering, analyzing, and documenting business requirements, functional requirements and data specifications for Business Objects Universes and Reports.  • Designed, developed and managed Universes in Business Objects Designer for generating reports against SAP BW.  • Developed and maintained Reports based on ETL Audit tables to track Record submission; loaded records, errors  • with details; Managed CMS (Central Management Server) from CCM U.S. Army Reserve IT Support Senior System Analyst BAE System - Peachtree City, GA May 2006 to October 2010 Configure, test, evaluate, analyze, troubleshoot, document, and implement Blackberry Enterprise Server's operating system from 4.2 to 5.1 and provide solutions to ensure performance, effectiveness, security, reliability, recoverability, availability, efficiency, and scalability following the principals of Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) release management. Administrated, Exchange servers and Active Directory.    BlackBerry Enterprise Server (BES) Projects  • Upgraded BES software and refreshed hardware refresh for upgrade from version 5.1 to 5.2 to include new features of BES failover servers.  • Secured BlackBerry devices following DoD Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIG)  • Responsible for high visibility of 5000 users including VIP's (Army generals) and the Office of the Chief of the Army Reserve (OCAR) located in the Pentagon command center.  • Experience migrating 5000 users from BES 4.2 to 5.0.  • Configured and implement BES during upgrade Exchange 2003 to Exchange 2010.  • Played key role in upgrading Exchange 2003 to Exchange 2010.  • Configured and implement disaster recovery of BES by HA and SQL database mirroring.  • Implemented BES monitoring service and web desktop manger for single sign-on for Common Access Card (CAC). System Administrator Georgia Department of Labor - Atlanta, GA October 2005 to February 2006 • Created all BW objects required for a Sales Infocube.  • Created Info objects, Info sources, ODS and InfoCube.  • Enhanced existing data source in R3 to add some additional fields, used user exit.  • Created a new data source in R3 and pulled data into BW using it, delta enabled it later.  • Created performance-tuning measures like aggregates and indexes.  • Created process chains for master data and transaction data loading automation.  • Created generic extract structure and edit required field items.  • Designed and model info cube and load data by using COP generic R/3 extraction process.  • Created aggregates, ODS structure.  • Enhanced SAP/R3 OLTP Extraction (LO, FI, HR) SEM Extractors.  • Created inventory Database in SQL 2000 and Link DB2 database and imported data from main Frame to MS SQL by DTS.  • Designed DTS in relation to update data from DB2 to MS SQL and write Query to convert Field and add new field.  • Created role for security and trigger for notification of user process and package events.  • Administered and Created Database in MS SQL 2000 server for IT inventory control and write procedure and policy.  • Updated access database and use as front end for SQL server.  • Created inventory database in SQL 2000 and linked DB2 database. Imported data from mainframe to MS Education Bachelor of Science in Electronic Management in BlackBerry Southern Illinois University Skills System Administrator, Active Directory, System Admin, Vmware, Linux, SCCM, Linux Administrator Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: E7 Certifications/Licenses ITIL v3 Present Security+ CE October 2018 to October 2021 MSCA Present Blackberry A valid IT Specialist certification