Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - PECHANGA GOVERNMENT CENTER Murrieta, CA • Highly skilled Systems Administrator with over 10 years of experience supporting numerous software applications within highly functional teams.    • Main point of contact for software/ hardware installation and support for a governmental agency that requires constant up time.    • Provide support for various internal and external stakeholders throughout the organization to ensure system readiness and compliance.    • Work closely with business units to deliver software/hardware releases on schedule through business planning, development, system engineering, and quality assurance phases.    • Provide strategic input on opportunities as it relates to overall network health by gathering analytical data, developing business cases, and defining ROI.    • Proven ability to work with large cross-functional teams to ensure the success of the organization and provide the best support for its internal and external customers.    • Strong interpersonal skills dealing with leadership, peers, and team members.    • Strong analytical skills, personal commitment to IT support and a motivated self-starter with an aptitude for learning new skills quickly.    SOFTWARE COMPETENCIES    • vSphere EXSi 6.5  • Active Directory  • Enterprise Vault 11.0  • Apple OS X/iOS  • ShareFile  • MS Office 2003-2016  • Symantec  • Windows Server 2008-2016  • SharePoint 2010  • Cisco ACS 4.3  • Dell Case  • SSL  • Check Point  • Cisco AnyConnect  • UCS  • Zebi 3.7  • FileMaker  • LDAP  • Cisco CUCM 11.0  • Power Shell  • SQL Server 2008-2016  • Avamar  • CommVault v11    HARDWARE COMPETENCIES    • iOS Devices  • Windows Tablets  • SAN  • Cisco Routers  • Cisco Switches  • Cisco VoIP Phones  • Tegile Storage  • FaxComm Server Work Experience Systems Administrator PECHANGA GOVERNMENT CENTER - Temecula, CA April 2010 to Present • Administrator role managing and supporting server and storage infrastructure, including VM environment, storage area networks, CUCM, and data backup systems.  • Daily responsibilities include: monitoring performance of virtual servers and supporting infrastructure, storage system checks, backup systems, and scheduled backup jobs.  • Collaborate with key stakeholders on projects, system implementation and scheduled maintenance.  • Upgraded VM environment from vSphere 4.1 to 5.1 to 6.5.  • Administrator and support for ShareFile server, Exchange 2010 server, SQL server 2008 - 2016, CommVault v11, Enterprise Vault and Cisco CUCM 11.0.  • Responsible for building, backing up and migrating 2008-2016 SQL databases.  • Responsible for issuing internal and public facing SSL certs.  • Administrator and provision accounts in Exchange, LDAP, Active Directory, and ACS.  • Configure Cisco 8851, 7811, and 8831 VOIP phones. This includes setting up new lines, voicemail, setting voicemail quotas, call forwarding, adding multiple lines, and Jabber.  • Responsible for maintaining and supporting 80 plus virtual, 20 physical servers, over 400 network computers, 250 Cisco VoIP phones, 30 network printers in a 275+ local and remote user environment.  • Implemented CommVault backup server.  • Responsible for monitoring and scheduling all our nightly backups, adding servers to the proper backup, resorting servers from our backups, and restoring lost or deleted files.  • Implemented and administer Symantec Enterprise Vault which is our email archiving server. This includes adding/removing users and managing mailboxes.  • Provide user desktop and mobile support for desktop PCs and mobile devices, using Windows and Apple operating systems. Windows 7, 8, 10 and Apple X/iOS.  • Troubleshoot and resolve general hardware, software and network problems.  • Played critical role in 'Fiber to Home' project for the residents on the Pechanga Reservation. This included setting up ONT and Calix routers, configuring and running a Linux script to activate service.  • Assisted with network infrastructure upgrade. IS Security Engineer DHL April 2008 to July 2009 • Promoted to the Centralized Account Management team from Service Desk.  • Administered and provisioned accounts in LDAP, Active Directory and Exchange.  • Administered ACF2 and AS400 systems ensuring users received accounts with proper security clearance in all systems.  • Allocated network resources including access to shared drives, network printers and corporate web sites.  • Created FTP accounts on UNIX server for external DHL customers  • Coordinated weekly meetings with key business partners.  • Assisted web development team on maintaining and updating our CAM website.  • Lead various projects for team that ensure continued success for department and supported applications/infrastructure. DHL - Scottsdale, AZ July 2004 to July 2009 Service Desk Analyst DHL July 2004 to April 2008 • Served as first-tier support for internal users diagnosing problems and resolving issues with hardware, network and software applications.  • Replaced video cards, hard drives, motherboards and memory.  • Performed hard drive recovery on both Windows equipment.  • Monitored, tracked and documented issues through HP Service Desk.  • Assisted Web Development team with implementation of new websites.  • Created, launched and supported a Service Ware knowledgebase. Service Desk Analyst University of Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ March 2003 to May 2004 • Accountable for assisting students in accessing their online classrooms.  • Assisted students with troubleshooting technical issues that would interrupt their progress in class.  • Supported MS Office Suite, MS Windows 2000, XP, NT and ME.  • Walked students through class materials to ensure they felt comfortable with the online learning environment.  • Documented student's issues, worked with level two support team when issues required escalation, and updated management with key data and trending. Education High Tech Institute Skills System Administrator, Active Directory, Vmware, System Admin