Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - FFE TRANSPORTATION SERVICES Arlington, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator FFE TRANSPORTATION SERVICES - Lancaster, TX 2016 to Present Spearhead daily network operations ensuring teams and processes are functioning accordingly. Oversee IT team delegating tasks and assignments and carefully monitoring work efforts. Install and configure hardware, software and administrative servers, application servers and shared file servers. Create user email accounts in Microsoft Exchange 2010+, Office 365. Monitor network and MPLS connections with SolarWinds. Configure Cisco routers, switches and firewalls. Apply saved configuration files to new routers, switches and firewalls. Troubleshoot issues and outages with network equipment and internet. Replace equipment if troubleshooting leads to failure, contact ISP and put in a work order ticket to resolve internet outage. We currently have 13 remote sites around the United States, and we have proximally 700 end users throughout all locations. Procure new orders for technology and computer equipment. Help users with computer issues over the phone, or using Dameware/LogMeIn remote. Establish new users to Active Directory + Azure, setting up policies and permissions. Manage and set up printers on print server. Administer Cisco phone system with Cisco call manager. LAN Administrator/Government Contractor TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST INC - Arlington, TX 2014 to 2016 Governed daily network operations that consist of Cisco routers and switches. Installed network cabling where a network drop was needed. I would run cable from NOC patch panel to an office where network drop was needed for new employee. Administered LAN network workstations. Developed LAN network utilization patterns and its impact on operation availability and performance. Performed hard drive, USB drive encryption and recovery. Resolved LAN issues finding solutions to combat technical difficulties. Implemented network improvement alternatives. Supported end user experience. Held IT-1 public trust security clearance (not active). Technical Support Specialist II GRAPEVINE COLLEYVILLE ISD - Grapevine, TX 2006 to 2014 Served as a Technical Support Specialist II for two elementary, two middle, one high school and the early childhood development center. Replaced and installed projectors and whiteboards as needed. Troubleshot all network issues when school staff were having issues getting on the internet, or were unable to get to their share drives. Installed access points throughout the schools and configured Airwatch on 1,000+ iPads. Procured and installed new computer, printer hardware and educational learning software for schools as requested by the Principle. Ensured usability of all technology at all times for both teachers and students. Maintained hardware inventory using the Eduphoria database. Coached and encouraged level I technicians at the school providing feedback and training as necessary. Education None in MIS Tarrant County Community College Skills Active directory (3 years), Cisco (5 years), Exchange (3 years), Microsoft exchange (3 years), Solarwinds. (3 years), Vmware (4 years), System Administrator (3 years) Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ Present CompTIA Network+ Present Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) Present Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist (MCTS) Present