Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Mississippi Office Brandon, MS To provide network and desktop solutions for clients. To learn and grow along with the industry. To provide fast, reliable, and comfortable resolutions for each and every end user. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Mississippi Office - Jackson, MS November 2017 to Present Managed multiple systems including backups, patch management and VMware virtual desktop management.    Skills: McAfee Enterprise, VMware, Unitrends, GFI Languard, Windows Desktop Support, Active Directory, Exchange Server, Office SharePoint, Network Troubleshooting, Inventory Management, Windows 10    2. Level 1 Tech Rankin County IT Department - Brandon, MS July 2013 to November 2017 Learned to support a wide array of systems and applications. Honed skills to adapt to changes and provided resolutions.    Skills: IBM iseries, Network Security, Network VoIP and IPTV solutions, Citrix & Cisco VPN, Windows Desktop Support, Active Directory, Exchange Server, Office SharePoint, Portal Server, Linux, Network Troubleshooting, Computer Hardware Troubleshooting, Terminating CAT 5, Server 2012, Avaya Modular Messaging    3.  Geek Squad  Best Buy    April 2012-April 2013 Flowood, MS  Provide support and resolution for customers experiencing windows and apple desktop environment issues.    Skills: Customer Support, desktop support and network, wireless networking, Customer Communications, Computer Hardware Troubleshooting, Troubleshooting, Conflict Resolution    4.    5. Assist in the sale of desktop and laptop Office Depot - Pearl, MS January 2010 to January 2012 Pearl, MS  Offer client side support for MS windows issues. Assist in the sale of desktop and laptop PCs and their peripherals.    Skills: Customer Support, desktop support and network, wireless networking, Customer Communications, Computer Hardware Troubleshooting, Troubleshooting, Conflict Resolution Assistant Manager Blockbuster Video - Brandon, MS January 2005 to January 2010 Learned how to encourage productivity out of many different personalities. Practiced balancing conflict resolution with customer happiness. Experienced making schedules and handling daily/weekly reports. Made managerial decisions on a daily basis and oversaw containment of shrinkage.    Skills: Customer Support, Conflict Resolution, Customer Communications, Balancing Budgets, Motivating Employees, Created Schedules, Track Shrinkage, Inventory Education HINDS COMMUNITY COLLEGE - Pearl, MS 2011 to 2012 Pelahatchie High School - Brandon, MS 2005 Skills System Admin, System Administrator, Active Directory, Vmware, Active Directory (5 years), Switches (3 years) Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ July 2014 to July 2017 CompTIA Project+ May 2019 to May 2022 CIW Web Foundations Associate May 2019 to May 2022 Additional Information A+ Certification