Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Lawrenceville, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Laboratorios Klinos C.A March 2012 to April 2016 Caracas city, Venezuela    Accomplishment:  • Functional support to the user of Microsoft Dynamics Axapta ERP.  • Development in C # .Net interface between Axapta ERP and SICM (Comprehensive Drug Control System) to generate mobilization guides.  • Design and implementation of reports, cubes and / or views, enabling improved productivity and operational performance of each of the functional areas of the company.  • Extraction of data in SQL Server to create reports in Crystal Report.  • Implementation in VB macros to files Excel.  • Development of interfaces with ERP, in order to ensure the daily management processes external to the system.  • Training for users, especially in functional aspects of ERP.    Business or sector: Pharmaceutical Industry Programmer Analyst Drocosca, C.A. (Valmy) July 2011 to March 2012 Caracas city, Venezuela    Accomplishment:  • Application Development in Visual Studio C # .Net. System for controlling prices of products.  • Development of macros in Excel Visual Basic.  • Development of customer form in the Microsoft Dynamics Great Plains ERP system.  • Design and implementation reports in Crystal Report.  • Design and implementation of SAP Business Objects reports.  • Development and querys view handler based on SQL Server.    Business or sector: Cosmetic Industry Project Manager Televen Corporation, C.A October 2010 to July 2011 Caracas city, Venezuela    Accomplishment:  • Provide information to the different areas of the business, so that they can analyze and make strategic decisions, through the design and implementation of reporting in the OF REPORTS Discoverer Oracle.  • Parameter payroll system SPI ( System of Comprehensive Personal).  • Development views and handlers querys in Oracle and SQL Server database.  • Development of reports in Discoverer Oracle HR Management. Project Manager Television Channel January 2008 to August 2010 Radio Caracas Television, RCTV C.A.  Caracas city, Venezuela    Accomplishment:  • Design SAP Business Objects reports for the Vice President of Human Resources.  • Development views and handlers querys in Oracle and SQL Server databases.  • Maintenance of applications under development language Visual Basic 6:  • Cestaticket System.  • System Overtime artistes, models and jobbers.  • System Savings Fund.  • School Supply System.  • Development of interfaces between SPI payroll system and the SAP ERP system.  • Reconversion Project Payroll System SPI.    Business or sector: Television Channel Systems Analyst III Radio Caracas Televisión, RCTV C.A February 2002 to December 2007 Caracas city, Venezuela    Accomplishment:  • Analysis, design and development of computer systems under the programming language C # .Net object oriented architecture N layers, SQL Server:  • Strategic Programming System SEP ( System for control of film contracts, list of programs and chapters).  • Guideline Media System ( system to load the pattern of promotions).  • Master Online System (Display the trade pattern of commercial, pattern of programming and promotions).  • Development of views and querys in SQL Server database driver.  • Development of the system under ASP.Net programming language: Decision 2006 ( system for the presidential elections of 2006).    Business or sector: Television Channel Systems Analyst Consultora Grupo NAP'S July 1993 to October 1994 Caracas city, Venezuela    Accomplishment:  • Design and development of business tools under the FoxPro programming language.  • Developed modules: Accounts Payable, Accounts Receivable, Personal Control System and Inventory System.    Business or sector: IT Consultant Programmer Analyst Italcambio C.A January 1993 to July 1993 Caracas city, Venezuela    Accomplishment:  • User support of all business applications.  • Design and development of information systems, under the Clipper programming language. Developed modules: Control of staff hours, System Change: cash count.    Business or sector: Exchange House Education BSc Universidad Central de Venezuela September 1995 to July 2001 Instituto Universitario Rodolfo Loero Arismendi August 1989 to July 1992 High School Diploma in Specialty Colegio Jesús María Marrero October 1986 to July 1989 Skills C#.NET (8 years), SQL (8 years), Java Script (4 years), Asp.Net (4 years) Additional Information PERSONAL SKILLS    • Proactive  • Capacity to work under pressure.  • Ability User Support.  • Ability to interpret the requirements of improving systems and offer solutions.  • Ability to work in teams.    AREAS OF INTEREST    • Analysis, design and development of applications using Object Oriented Technology (windows applications or web applications).  • Analysis, design and administration of databases.  • Processes related to information systems and best practices for software development.  • Functional support of ERP systems: SAP (HR module), Microsoft Dynamic Axapta and Microsoft Dynamic Great Plains.