Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Milpitas, CA I'd like to secure a position that allows me utilize my knowledge and experience to secure a long-term, career opportunity offering advancement and growth. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Basic Solutions Corp- GLS Lab Administration - San Jose, CA June 2010 to Present • Consulting and Planning  • Determine and meet milestones.  • Relocate, coordinate, and oversee moves from building to building of labs, furniture, data lines, end users, and equipment mounting.  • Load trucks, use dollies and hand truck, distribute weight, form compact load, and utilizing space.  • Supervise inventory and maintain integrity of data pre and post move, monitor specs, and building space audits, cubicles, conference rooms, hard wall offices, and common areas.  • Oversee and allocate space, ensure locations available and suitable for relocation and growth.  • Maintained facility inventory of furniture, bookshelves, pictures, equipment, desks, chairs, etc  • Coordinate and escort visitors into lab, data center, and other restricted areas.  • Coordinate and escort visitors into lab, data center, and other restricted areas.  • RMA Processing.  ISO and OSHA compliance.  • After hours Lab support  • Repo Depot (equipment reuse). C.B.R.E- Project Coordinator Basic Solutions Corp- GLS Lab Administration - San Jose, CA May 2006 to August 2008 • Direct multiple projects and the corresponding documents, schedules, timelines, and deliverables.  • Manage facility inventory, fire/safety standards, and space allocation of Nor Cal Cisco facilities.  • Lead project for fire and safety code compliance after more than five years of non-compliance.  • Visually inspected and documented construction, facility layout, renovations, and floor plans to update building plans and electronic drawings with corrected and missing data.  • Plot building specifications, building floor plans, facility layout, common areas, cubicles, and basic facility configuration.  • Use Autodesk and AutoCAD to draw new evacuation & safety plans, EVAC Maps, and EGRAS; create blue prints for space auditing and occupancy in support of building planner.  • Worked with San Jose Fire Department Fire Marshall on fire inspections; documented and corrected violations by escalating issues, coordinating demolition, debris removal, widening isle ways, reconfiguration of space, and rearranging or removal of cubicles to maintain integrity of space to exceed and maintain fire and safety compliance.  • Coordinate and planned fire drills.  • Established a program to monitor, track, and escalate corrective measures for non-compliance of safety and fire codes to resolve issues quickly and efficiently.  • Organize, educate, and train Cisco employees on fire code and safety regulations.  • Coordinated with EHS to establish a fire safety and compliance program implemented worldwide.  • Display effective communication to navigate changing leadership and bureaucracy.  • Spearhead "Clear the Clutter" project to coordinate, store, and maintain an inventory of excess furniture and equipment moved from hallways, common areas, empty space, and elevators.  • Create "Just in Time" storage plan for approximately 70 labs on campus to sale empty space as storage to cost centers, lowering outside storage cost, and utilizing wasted space.  • Institute a donation project, "On Time Storage", a furniture recycling program to reduce waste and storage cost while assisting local schools and non-profit organizations. Identify beneficiaries, maintain and track inventory, stage donations, and coordinate move of items.  • Supervised 5 laborers, coordinate work schedules, manage hours, and time cards.  • Provide client with packaging materials (boxes, bubble wrap, crates), coordinated move dates, actual relocation, and communicate with parties to ensure smooth transition with little down time. Sales Person National Imports - San Jose, CA June 2005 to April 2006 • Creating and organize sales activities for the Used Car Sales division. Supervise Sales Consultants, and assist closings to ensure individual sales and exceed department sales quota.  • Partner with Financial Services department to develop best practices for sales approach.  • Network, obtain leads, and build relationships with new and existing clients. Team One Security - San Jose, CA November 2004 to February 2005 • Retail Security Company, observed shoppers and associates for negative behavior patterns.  • Created and maintained records of apprehensions, interviews, witnesses, evidence and disposition of recovered merchandise. Assisted with internal investigations and participate in court hearings.  • Maintained safety and public order on premises Housekeeper/Floor Tech Los Gatos Community Hospital - Los Gatos, CA July 2003 to April 2004 Maintain clean, sanitary environment throughout facility; perform daily cleaning of patient rooms, ancillary area, offices, restrooms, and classrooms. Strip, refinish, and wax floor. Manager STS Telecom- IT Tech - San Jose, CA July 1999 to January 2001 San Jose, CA  07/99 -01/01  • On team that transitioned from Lucent to VOIP technology. Retro fitted entire campus to new VoIP phone system; installed, modified, troubleshoot, and repair hardware, software, phones, Network Systems and provided technical assistance and training to users.  • Loaded specified software packages such as operating systems, word processing or spreadsheet programs into computers.  • Responsible for move, add, changes to computers and phones.  • Responded to client inquiries concerning systems operation and diagnoses system hardware, software and operator problems  • Knowledgeable with Microsoft Office products such as MS Access, Word, and Excel. Experience with Crystal Reports preferred  • Provided updates, status and completion information to Manager, Problem Request Tracking System, and/or users, via voice mail, e-mail or in-person communication. Education Milpitas High School - Milpitas, CA 1988 General Studies Mission College Skills System Administrator Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS  Autodesk, AutoCAD, Excel, Outlook, Word, Access, Office, and Crystal Reports,Toolbox,GSA