Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Admin - Premier Data Systems Washington, LA Work Experience Systems Administrator Premier Data Systems - Lafayette, LA December 2018 to May 2019 • installed cabling Cat 6 & fiber.  • NETWORK MANAGED SWITCHES DID FIRMWARE UPDATES AS NEEDED.  • Monitor Anti-virus and windows patches update as needed.  • Setup wireless access points and bridges.  • WORKED WITH END USERS WITH ISSUES  • installed DVR systems with both coax and IP cameras.  • Setup VOIP phones. Service Desk Analyst I National General Insurance February 2017 to December 2018 • Performed troubleshooting, repair, and maintenance of computer systems, hardware, peripherals, and telephony.  • Analyzed system requirements to efficiently isolate and resolve a wide array of technical issues.  • Participated in large-scale upgrades and installations.  • Strong customer service focus to successfully interact with end-user and peer teams.  • Maintain security cameras settings and connectivity and building access. National General Insurance - Opelousas, LA October 2002 to December 2018 Technical Support Analyst I National General Insurance October 2014 to February 2017 • Provided technical support to end-users, leveraging broad-based expertise to handle problem identification, diagnosis, resolution, and escalation via helpdesk system, telephone, and remote support tools.  • Performed security administration functions for user, data, and remote access.  • Maintain security thorough firewalls, security camera settings and connectivity and building access. Network Support Specialist National General Insurance October 2002 to October 2014 • Set up servers and virtual servers to be file and print servers, fax servers, with active directory intergraded.  • Assisted with setup of VOIP phones throughout the company. Then maintained the system.  • On- site tech that assisted in setup of MPL and MIS routers using multiple T1 connections.  • Assisted vendor in setting up security cameras and maintained security settings and connectivity.  • Worked with several different Savin MFP setting up different scanning setup with SMB, Printing & Faxing. Education Associate Degree in Network Specialist Louisiana Technical College May 2002 High School Diploma Mamou High School May 1998 Skills System Administrator