Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator Clermont, FL Solutions-driven professional with 5+ years’ experience providing rapid and client-focused system administrator and technical support to users. Demonstrated ability to identify root causes and direct users to lasting resolutions. Adept at articulating complex technical concepts to users of varying technical understanding. Well versed in a variety of common operating systems, applications, and hardware with a proven ability to master new tools and technologies quickly. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Christie Lites Enterprises - Orlando, FL May 2018 to Present • Perform daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware, server resources, systems and key processes, reviewing system and application logs, and verifying completion of scheduled jobs such as backups.  •Research, install, setup and test software applications.  •Evaluate, initiate and implement upgrades to keep pace with current technology and requirements. Senior Technical Analyst Christie Lites Enterprises - Orlando, FL August 2016 to April 2018 •Provide tier 2-3 support for the IT Service Desk for 300+ users.   •Periodic updates to workstations including antivirus, software patches, and OS upgrades. •Research, install, setup and test software applications.  •Maintain and troubleshoot all aspects of desktop related issues inclusive of security and malware threats, network connectivity, MS Office and Outlook email. IT Manager/Salesforce Administrator Natalie's Orchid Island Juice Company September 2014 to April 2016 • Provide periodic updates to workstations including antivirus, software patches, and OS upgrades.  • Manage the maintenance of the Salesforce platform and customize the Salesforce implementation to ensure cross-functional business requirements are met. Create reports for Executive team.  • Drive complex technical projects from the planning stage through execution.  • Manage Sales team to ensure effective utilization of the Salesforce platform. Technical Support Engineer Online Computers and Communications LLC November 2013 to September 2014 • Maintain and troubleshoot all aspects of desktop related issues; security and malware threats, network connectivity, printing, MS Office and Outlook email via on-site or off-site support.  • Contribute infrastructure support including server maintenance and upgrades, as well as maintain and create user accounts, passwords and groups inside of Active Directory.  • Actively monitor the ticketing system. Repair and set up telecommunication and video equipment such as cisco phones, conference phones, video chats as well as projectors and presentation equipment. Advanced Repair Agent Geek Squad October 2013 to September 2014 • Direct interaction with clients in order to troubleshoot their product issues at check in, as well as show them the repairs at time of pick up. This is inclusive of hardware and software repairs of devices such as desktops, laptops and tablets and all networking devices.  • Work with manufacturers in regards to testing and shipping defective product out of our precinct.  • Trained and certified in selling the store's products and services as well as products from Acer, Intel, Microsoft and Sony. Technical Sales Representative Stele InfoTech May 2013 to November 2013 • Provide full spectrum of I.T. products and services to clients in both Enterprise and SMB space.  • Connect with new and existing clients to analyze their I.T. needs primarily in regards to storage and networking.  • Utilize the company's Microsoft partnership and analyze clients' needs to determine if a cloud as a tier storage environment is a good solution. Education Bachelor's in History Ramapo College of New Jersey - Mahwah, NJ July 2005 Skills Citrix Certified Sales Professional, Microsoft Surface Accreditation – Sales, Acer Master Certified – Sales, Sony Master Certified – Sales, Sharp Pro Certified –Sales, Intel Certified Specialist – Sales, All Cisco Sales Essential Courses, All HP selling SMB Course, Microsoft Windows 8 Accreditation – Sales, Microsoft Office Accreditation-Sales, System Administrator, System Admin