Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Jefferson City Medical Group Jefferson City, MO I am an Information Technology professional with 10 years of experience in systems and software administration. My passion for the technical industry and diverse industry knowledge has made me a mentor among my peers. I have a proven ability to manage IT environments, implement Security standards, and maintain project efficiency. My prior sales experience allows me to apply my communication skills to my technical background for knowledge transfers to corporate and vender relations without the use of industry jargon. Work Experience Systems Administrator Jefferson City Medical Group - Jefferson City, MO 2017 to Present • Lead Administrator, Responsible for training new and current administrators and resolution of all escalated incidents.  • Physical and Virtual Hardware / Software Installation, configuration, and maintenance.  • Project Planning and Implementation, including vender relations, resource allocation, Change Management.  • Systems and application Hardening, Maintenance, Break fixing, and decommission.  • Ownership of Core Environment systems such as DNS, DHCP, AD, Group Policy, Tape Backups, and NAS/SAN. Software Support Specialist Computer Service Professionals Inc - Jefferson City, MO 2016 to 2017 • Support highly customizable SAAS Banking solution.  • Management and problem resolution for client SQL databases.  • Onsite client configuration and training of software banking software solutions.  • Building custom reports with Crystal Automation software. Systems Administrator / Information Security Lead IBM - Columbia, MO 2013 to 2015 • Windows / Intel environment support and Security leader within dedicated account.  • Directed Security Policy Implementation while analyzing environment for vulnerabilities.  • Implementation of security projects including patch hardening, Backup/Recovery analysis, and tripwire investigations.  • Initial Administrator to new account, documented processes of administration and security for knowledge transfer while training new System administrators.  • Technical lead for windows environment of 3800 servers physical and virtual. Software Support Specialist ECI / FMAudit - Jefferson City, MO 2012 to 2013 • Troubleshoot and resolve dealer/client issues related to FMAudit software, MS windows, IIS, SQL, and .NET Framework.  • Insured client environment security with implementation of new SaaS systems.  • Supporting Dealers/clients through email, phone, and remote sessions.  • Collaborate with team members to quickly resolve issues and acknowledge software bugs. Computer Technician / Sales Rep / Owner Seal Technologies - Jefferson City, MO 2010 to 2012 • Provided repair solutions both in-home and in-office.  • Represented Company with different types of customer relations.  • Responsible for growth and innovation for the company.  • Provided in-depth customer care with lasting solutions. Sales Associate / Home Theater Supervisor Best Buy - Jefferson City, MO 2006 to 2009 • Maintain sales team statistics and work schedules for 14 employees while training and coaching new and existing sales associates in sales techniques, dealing with difficult customers, and troubleshooting various problems.  • Consistently lead team in top 100 of 1150 stores  • Maintained a daily departmental sales goal of $35,000+  • Received promotion from Sales Associate to Department Supervisor within one year of service Education B.S. in Information Technology Western Governors University 2015 to Present B.S. in Computer information systems Columbia College - Jefferson City, MO 2012 to 2015 Blair Oaks High School - Jefferson City, MO 2007 School TV 2007 School News 2006 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, DNS, NAS, NETWORKING, SECURITY, DHCP, VMWARE, SQL, R2, MS OFFICE, RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT, PROBLEM RESOLUTION, EXCEL, OUTLOOK, WORD, System Administrator, System Admin Additional Information SKILLS:    • Microsoft Server OS / 2003, 2008(R2), 2012, 2016.  • Microsoft Client OS / 2000, ME, XP, Vista, 7, 8, 10.  • Security Policy implementation.  • SQL Installation / Configuration / Query.  • Active Directory / Group Policy.  • NAS / SAN Solutions.  • Networking / DNS / DHCP.  • VMWare / Cisco UCS.  • Tape Backup Solutions.  • Vender Relationship Management.  • Project management / Implementation.  • MS Office Products / Excel, Word, Outlook.  • Leadership / Diagnostics / Problem Resolution.