Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Big Stone County Ortonville, MN Experienced Systems Administrator with expertise in the management of server infrastructures and data center operations across operating system platforms. Highly proficient in implementing enterprise solutions for business applications in both small and large, public and private environments. Determined to deliver the best technical solutions to meet functional and business requirements. Diligent troubleshooter, with strong communication skills and the ability to interact effectively with employees and departments with various technological needs. Flexible with positive work attitude focused on producing results under tight deadlines. Demonstrated understanding of the current environment and relationships within Big Stone County. Work Experience Systems Administrator Big Stone County - Ortonville, MN January 2017 to Present • Made recommendations regarding infrastructure overhauls.  • Maintained flexible schedule and responded to after-hours and weekend emergencies in a timely manner.  • Analyzed complex project server issues and worked on large enterprise and business-critical applications.  • Optimized system security and performance with proactive changes.  • Led server infrastructure development, quality assurance, staging, and production systems.  • Planned and implemented upgrades to system hardware and software.  • Worked with users to determine areas in need of improvement.  • Recommended architectural improvements, design solutions and integration solutions.  • Recommended network security standards to management.  • Designed and implemented new server standards for core business services.  • Consistently met deadlines and requirements for all production work orders.  • Played a key role in on-going network design, reevaluation, and optimization to keep pace with company growth.  • Facilitated best user experience through continuous support, training classes, webinars, improvements and communication of system changes.  • Conducted testing and troubleshooting for various software remotely and onsite for numerous servers to maintain operational readiness.  • Implemented, developed and tested installation and update of file servers, print servers and application servers in all departments. IT Specialist Market of Choice - Eugene, OR August 2015 to January 2017 • Removed and replaced malfunctioning components to correct hardware problems.  • Configured hardware, devices, and software to set up new work stations for employees.  • Demonstrated professionalism and courtesy with customers while working to resolve complaints, problems or respond to questions.  • Removed malware, ransomware and other threats from laptops and desktop systems.  • Responded to support requests from end users and patiently walked individuals through basic troubleshooting tasks.  • Maintained composure and efficiency in high-pressure IT environment.  • Used Spiceworks ticketing systems to manage and process support actions and requests. Help Desk Support Northland Community and Technical College - East Grand Forks, MN August 2014 to June 2015 • Provided Tier 1 IT support to non-technical internal personnel through desk side support services.  • Provided excellent customer service through communication and interpersonal skills.  • Configured and resolved issues with Apple devices.  • Maintained high tech support standards for quality and productivity metrics.  • Managed high levels of call flow and responded to various technical support needs of students and faculty.  • Installed software, modified and repaired hardware and resolved technical issues.  • Removed malware, adware, and other high-security risks.  • Worked after hours to deploy software updates. Chemical Health Technician Supervisor Meridian Behavioral Health - East Grand Forks, MN August 2012 to June 2015 • Adjusted job assignments and schedules to keep pace with dynamic business needs, factoring in processes, employee knowledge, and client demands.  • Applied strong leadership talents and problem-solving skills to maintain team efficiency and organize workflows to meet any daily demand.  • Partnered with and supported Counselors to ensure HIPAA regulations, laws and established policies were enforced and adhered to throughout all operational facets.  • Maintained a positive and professional attitude when being confronted by visibly upset clients.  • Oversaw staff as they conduct day to day business.  • Mentored newly hired employees.  • Delegated tasks to co-workers. Education Associate of Applied Science in Computer & Network Technology Northland Community and Technical College - East Grand Forks, MN 2015 certification CISCO Networking Academy Skills Active Directory, System Administrator, System Admin Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qvzyxj6-ohibfkou Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/kx04jbph1bffyabo Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qi5xkp9kzaiz8xdy Critical Thinking — Proficient June 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/divwularletpieec Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.