Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Computer Systems Engineer / System Administrator / Techical Support / Junior System Administrator Ukraine Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Systems Administrator 7TOYS - Ukraine,Odessa March 2019 to Present Preventive maintenance computers and verification technical condition.  Troubleshooting computer and office equipment;  Exercise of the software installation;  Ensuring sustainable providing a stable and uninterrupted operation of the local network;  Monitoring of the installation and installation of security systems at all outlets. Access restriction and port closure;  Administration 1C 8.3, medoc;  Installation and setup of video surveillance;  Setting up and preparing laptops and a phone for managers in china and other. Technical Support Skycloud LLC - Ukraine,Odessa March 2017 to January 2019  Work in technical support  Serving more than 10 companies  More than 30 server (windows)  Backup if customers have purchased a specific company package on this services  Maintenance and Troubleshooting in work with thin clients and Monobloc  Exercise of the software installation  Recovery of companies after a massive virus in Ukraine (Petya.A)  Full support in the purchase and installation of equipment in cafes, shops and bakery Computer Systems Engineer TD-karavay - Ukraine,Odessa March 2016 TD-Karavay  Up to 20 employees / Retail  Security efficiency computer and network of equipment in office and in the shops of the branded trading network. Number of Serviced Computers - 62 pieces, 3 servers.  • Preventive maintenance computers and verification technical condition.  • Trouble-shooting computer and office equipment.  • Exercise of the software installation.  • Ensuring sustainable providing a stable and uninterrupted operation of the local network.  • Search, negotiation and preparation of documents for the conclusion of contracts with equipment suppliers, accessories, internet services.  • Monitoring of the installation and installation of security systems at all outlets.  • Setting access rights and monitoring the use of network resources.  • Ensuring security when working on the Internet.  • Serving of users of a local network (Adding accounts and mailboxes).  • Providing reliable storage of information, its timely backup and recovery.  • Support for the health of servers, their administration.  • Preventive maintenance of computer equipment in shops and office. Antivirus protection of computers, network, servers.  • Consultation of users on issues related to work in the operating system and application software, including 1C 8.2.  • Taking measures to restore the working capacity of the local network in case of failures or failure of network equipment.  • Providing advice and technical support to employees when working with a local network and Internet resources.  • Control of corporate communication costs.  • Harmonization of the annual budget with the monthly breakdown with the management of the holding.  • Budgeting of components, office equipment, and network equipment.  • Setting up and maintenance of cash registers, scanners. Education Bachelor's degree in business Interregional Academy of Personnel Management - Odessa, UA 2016 Skills Active Directory (2 years), Vmware vSphere (2 years), System Administrator (1 year), Exchange Server (1 year), Technical Support (2 years), Windows Server 2003 (2 years), Windows server 2008 (2 years) Additional Information Key information    Service 62 PC, in the office and, in stores branded trading network.      Service 3 server in TD-karavay      Drafting of the annual budget, conducting negotiations, purchase of components and equipment for office and shops.      Knowledge OS Windows XP/Win7/Win8.1/Win10/WinServ2012/WinServ2008/WinServ2003 and little bit MacOS. Knowledge 1? 8.2, 8.3 (Administration)  Have experience with Active Directory/MS Exchange       Have experience with VMware vSphere      Have experience with ticket- system (zendesk)      Have experience with setting grandstream      There is little experience with*nix,ubuntu,debian      Have experience with setting Mikrotik, tp-link, d-link switch, unifi ubiquiti       Have experience with thin client 