Systems Administrator IV <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IV Systems Administrator IV - Integral Care Austin, TX Seeking a position of employment utilizing well developed Information Technology, customer service, and management experience. Work Experience Systems Administrator IV Integral Care - Austin, TX January 2017 to Present Deploy and support a Windows Hyper-V clustered environment  ? Implement Veeam Backup and Restore  ? Migrate to Nimble SAN and configure replication  ? Administer and provide support for all Office 365  ? Manage and maintain Windows domain services (AD, DNS, DHCP, DirectAccess)  ? Manage all Microsoft SQL servers and databases  ? Administer and maintain Citrix XenDesktop/XenApp environment Systems Administrator II Austin Cancer Centers - Austin, TX March 2016 to January 2017 Provide support for all company workstations and servers  ? Deploy and maintain Windows Server 2003, 2008 and 2012  ? Manage Active Directory users, computers and security groups  ? Create, maintain and deploy Active Directory Group Policies  ? Provide tier 2 helpdesk support Systems Support Specialist Central Counties Center for MHMR - Temple, TX May 2013 to March 2016 Provide support for all center workstations and peripherals.  ? Manage and install hard drive encryption software and database  ? Department lead for Cisco Voip system install  ? Implement and manage server backup software  ? Setup and deploy disk imaging software  ? Assist in procurement and installation of new Cisco/Meraki WAN equipment  ? Setup and deploy new laptops and workstations according to department standards  ? Deploy and manage virtual servers in a VMWare environment Airport Network Technician City of Killeen - Killeen, TX September 2012 to March 2013 Provide software and hardware support for all workstations throughout the airport  ? Maintain access control system throughout airport  ? Maintain CCTV cameras and DVR's  ? Troubleshoot and administer local network, including wireless hotspots, firewall, and vpn Systems Analyst Strasburger Enterprises Inc - Temple, TX July 2006 to June 2012 Setup IT Infrastructure for more than 250 stores acquisitions in career, including staging and setup of Windows based back office systems, peripherals, hardware VPN/Firewall, and support of pre-existing store systems.  ? Day to day management of peripheral systems including POS, DVR, store Back Office, networking, and firewalls  ? Help Desk support: Tier 2 (upper level) resource for store, office, and remote users when problems occur beyond the Tier 1 scope of the Help Desk.  ? Oversee receipt of incoming hardware from closed/sold locations, separated employees, etc.  ? Manage IT equipment (ordering and asset list)  ? Managed user ID's, passwords and network promotions using Active Directory. Skills Cisco, Exchange, Hyper-v, Windows 8, Windows server 2003, Microsoft exchange, Microsoft office, Mac, Purchasing, Logistics, Inventory, Shipping Additional Information SKILLS & QUALIFICATIONS  ? Computer knowledge: Windows 8, 10 Windows Server 2003, 2008, 2012, 2016, 2019 Microsoft Office, Microsoft Exchange, Microsoft Office 365, Microsoft Hyper-V, Veeam, Nimble, Mac OSX, Cisco Meraki Switches, Cisco Telepresence, Cisco Unified Communications, Cisco Unified Computing  ? Managed logistics within a corporate IT environment, including purchasing, shipping, receiving, and inventory management.  ? Ability to work independently as well as lead or within a team.  ? Learn new skills quickly through instruction, observation, or hands-on experience.