Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator New York, NY Work Experience Systems Administrator Saunders College of Business May 2018 to May 2019 • Maintained the servers and network devices within an organization to administrate security reports, firewalls and database and troubleshooting IT infrastructure and services.  • Led a project to implement load balancing for servers that increased the overall systems performance drastically.  • Introduced GitLab and Jenkins server in the organization to support the DevOps environment and designed the architecture of automated pipeline to the production stage.  • Patched software updates and Windows updates through WSUS server within Active Directory bounded systems.  • Provided remote assistance to clients and manage the daily OTRS ticketing system. Graduate Teaching Assistant Rochester Institute of Technology January 2018 to May 2018 • Assisted students with networking concepts in 'Intro. to Routing and Switching' and 'Network Services'.  • Provided one-to-one assistance to students during practical lab session.  • Facilitated discussions and grading work submission and labs. Education Master of Science in Networking and Systems Administration in Marwadi Education Foundation Rochester Institute of Technology - Rochester, NY May 2019 Skills Active directory, Ccna, Cisco certified network associate, Cisco, Dns, Linux, Linux Administrator, Redhat, Red Hat, SCCM, System Administrator, System Admin, Vmware, Windows Server Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/meetjethwani Additional Information SKILLS  • Extensive knowledge of TCP/IP, OSPF, BGP, EIGRP, DNS, DHCP, NAT, VPN, ARP, MPLS, MANET.  • CCNA Knowledge, Network Security, Systems Administration, Remote Desktop Support, Cloud Computing,  Docker Containerization, Ansible for Automation, Network Management, Windows Active Directory.  CERTIFICATIONS & ACHIEVEMENTS  • Cisco Certified Network Associate - CCNA.  • Cyberoam Certified Network & Security Professional - CCNSP - NP.  • Introduction to Information Security: IIT-Madras, India.  • Microsoft Student Partner: Microsoft, India (July 2015 - June 2016).