Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Experienced Systems Administrator Ringgold, GA Work Experience Systems Administrator HomeServe USA April 2019 to Present Perform Windows, VMware, Citrix admin duties, and various other admin tasks. Build and maintain Cisco UCS servers. Contract Systems Administrator Various Organizations June 2018 to February 2019 Implemented a virtual desktop infrastructure (VDI) project using VMware vSphere, vSAN, and Horizon 7. Responsible for the installation, configuration, administration, etc. of physical and virtual servers. Performed Active Directory, Group Policy, back up, SAN, etc. tasks as needed. Systems Administrator TVA - Chattanooga, TN October 2011 to June 2018 Built, maintained, supported, etc. Windows and VMware servers in a dispersed datacenter consisting of approximately 2000 servers. Maintained HP and UCS blade servers and enclosures. I coordinated with various departments and groups to plan and perform after-hours maintenance on servers and applications. Also managed Active Directory, Group Policy, SAN storage, SQL servers, backups, WSUS, etc.  Systems Engineer Whitfield County Board of Commissioners March 2008 to January 2011 Worked to ensure uninterrupted service for a network consisting of over 425 workstations and 50 servers. Some examples of my areas of responsibility were Windows Server 2003, Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange 2003, EMC's EmailXtender, Barracuda Spam and Virus Firewall, Symantec Endpoint Protection and Backup Exec, WSUS, Blackberry Enterprise Server, MS SQL Server servers, SCCM 2007, Kronos WFC, Citrix servers hosting several applications, and wireless access at a number of locations. Also successfully developed from scratch a desktop computer image deployment program that required no monetary expenditures. Systems Administrator Amerifoods February 2005 to March 2008 Responsible for the operation of the computer and telephone networks by being "on-call" 24/7/365. Manage servers (Windows and Linux), workstations (PC's and laptops), printers, copiers and fax machines. Develop and modify applications as required by management. Perform various regular and ad-hoc reporting duties. Provide user support and training. Manage and configure Windows servers for back up, virus protection (using Symantec and Trend Micro CSM), email (MS Exchange), and periodic software updates. Material Handler SI Corporation April 2003 to February 2005 Junior Programmer/Analyst Classic Software Associates, Inc July 2001 to November 2002 Reversed engineered existing AS/400 systems and gathered the required data to rebuild these systems using newer technologies. Developed Client/Server applications to replace these systems. Designed and implemented databases in SQL Server. Analyzed existing systems with little or no prior knowledge of them and developed the User Documentation for these systems. Developed Graphical User Interfaces for AS/400 systems. Education Master of Business Administration in Business Administration Kennesaw State University - Kennesaw, GA July 2009 Bachelor of Science in Management Information Systems Dalton State College - Dalton, GA May 2001 Skills Vmware, System Admin, System Administrator, Active Directory, Citrix, SCCM, Linux Additional Information ? Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (MCSE).  ? 12 years I.T. experience.  ? Installed, built, monitored, and troubleshot, etc. many Windows servers from NT4 to 2012R2. This includes daily monitoring of disk space, event logs, server performance, and other tasks.  ? Experience building, monitoring, etc. virtual servers, hosts, etc. with VMware.  ? Worked with both large and small Citrix farms including publishing and managing applications, server maintenance (e.g. hotfix installations) and troubleshooting.  ? Administered numerous Microsoft SQL Server 2000, 2005 and 2012 databases.  ? Six years experience administering Microsoft Exchange 2003.  ? Was part of a three person team that implemented a government-mandated email archiving solution (EMC's EmailXtender) that grew to encompass seven years of past email and contained more than 370 GB's of data. For two years, I was the sole administrator of this system.  ? Have conducted numerous Active Directory tasks including user and group account creation, deletion, etc., Group Policy management, and participated in an upgrade from a Windows 2000 domain to a 2003 native-mode domain.  ? Administered Windows Server Update Services, System Center Configuration Manager 2007, Symantec Endpoint Protection Suite, and Barracuda Spam and Virus firewall. Also have experience with Trend Micro CSM SMB.  ? Ensured data availability through daily and weekly backups.  ? Have performed multiple roles in a number of large implementation projects including writing RFP's, meeting with vendors, collaborating with team members, etc.    Matt Fry