Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Sytems Engineer for hire Albuquerque, NM Assessing the needs of small to large environments providing technical state of the art solutions. Work Experience Systems Administrator ROCC - Albuquerque, NM May 2019 to Present I currently work for INTEL rolling out Windows 10 upgrades, and installs for new tools that create the INTEL chips in a FAB clean room environment. I resolve tickets that are created by the tool owners for the computer and network side. I attend a daily 8:30 meeting for critical installs of tools that requires information on spotchecks that has been specifically assigned to me within my team. I check for equipment, network and power to make sure that the Winclient install can be completed for the tool. More responsibility is being given as there are many facets to each and every install. Each department has protocols that must be met before a computer can be installed and put on the network. Senior Systems Administration / Tech Support team leader- Point Man The GAP - Albuquerque, NM April 2001 to August 2001 for Wave 1 rollout of 130 accountants from California to Albuquerque's new GAP headquarters. Project planner for Wave 2 rollout. Business Continuity Planner for disaster recovery procedures. Implemented LightsOut Remote Insight management tools on five Compaq DL380 servers. Four servers had NT 4.0 and one server had Novell 5.x as the operating system. Lotus Notes, PCAnywhere, RADIA package distribution, and Arcserve 2000 backup w/ TL891 Storageworks (10 DLT changer) were the applications supported on these systems. Manager of 4 support technicians in the Albuquerque office. Senior Systems Administration / Tech support- Project Management Priority One LLC - Albuquerque, NM February 2001 to April 2001 Cisco Routers, VPN, NT 4.0, Novell 4.11, database maintenance and other hi level tech responsibilities. Systems Administration / Tech Support BGK Realty June 2000 to January 2001 Involved with the project management of Windows 2003 Advanced Server implementation.  Server administration of Novell 4.x, NT 4.0, GroupWise 5.2, and InoculanIT 4.53 and other required job duties. Project Lead Shearman & Sterling - New York, NY September 1996 to December 1999 - New York, NY - offices in thirteen countries worldwide  • Systems Administration: 50 Windows NT servers, 30 Novell NetWare 3.x, 4.x, and 5.x servers; responsibilities included:  installing, configuring, troubleshooting, technical documentation overseeing network and security operations.  • Remote communications support: LanRover Access Switch and Citrix WinFrame responsibilities included: ACE server  configuration, client configuration, technical documentation, and troubleshooting of the LanRover Access Switch and Citrix servers  worldwide in thirteen countries.  • Project Lead: for desktop and server rollout for Shearman & Sterling's thirteen offices worldwide.  • Project Lead for the London office desktop and NT Server roll out which included: installation and configuration of Compaq Proliant 800's, 2500's and 5000's, SQL server, PCDocs, Lotus Notes and Winframe servers  Wrote the standard procedural manuals used to roll out the remaining 12 offices worldwide.  • Project Lead: International worldwide rollout of Shiva LanRover Access Switch /E and D56 remote communications.  • Part of a Project Team called "Quickfix" - Small team appointed to secure, stabilize and optimize desktop operations.  • Y2K Project: responsible for Y2K testing and compliance on Windows NT 4.0 and Novell NetWare 3.x and 4.x servers.  • WINS, DNS, and TCP/IP configuration on: Windows Servers Multi-Domain and LanRover Access Switch/E.  • Assisted in the upgrade and migration plan of: Novell NetWare 3.x on a 2500 compaq server to 5.x on a Compaq 5000 server.  • Configured Arcserve backup on all Windows and Novell NetWare 3.x, 4.x, and 5.x servers.  • Configured TCP/IP on all HP printers and used HP JetAdmin to configure the printer for the network.  • Technical Writing and Training documentation- Developed information and troubleshooting documentation for support technicians,  night operators and helpdesk concerning all aspects of the Shearman & Sterling environment.  • 24 x 7 support - Responsible for on call technical support for Shearman & Sterling worldwide for 1 week every 7 weeks.  • Beta Tester for Microsoft.  • Sole responsibility from 8:00am until 9:30am to verify proper functionality of networking systems in 13 offices worldwide.  • Computer Systems including NOVELL NetWare 3.x, 4.x and 5.x, Microsoft NT 4.0 server, Lotus Notes 4.6.3, PCDOCS 3.7.2, SQL  6.5, Citrix Winframe 1.8 configured with full desktop functionality, including PCDocs and Lotus Notes integration, ACE 3.3, RightFax  6.0, Insight Manager 4.22, NT and Netware CD-ROM towers, NT 4.0 application server, Proxy Server w/ Gauntlet 4.2, HP OpenView  5.01, QIP Quadritek 3.0 IP Management and a UNIX R30-RISC 6000.    Software: Windows utilities for cloning, NetWare Utilities, HP JetAdmin, Shiva NetManager, Arcserve for windows, Arcserve for Netware, All versions of Microsoft Office, Lotus Notes 4.6.3, Right Fax 6.0, PCDocs 3.72, SQL 6.5, Citrix WinFrame utilities, Norton, McAfee, Novell NetWare 3.x, 4.x, and 5.x utilities, Adobe Acrobat Reader, Carpe Diem, Netscape Communicator, Hot Sync Manager, Interaction, Lexis Nexis, Lotus Notes, Netware, Netwizard, Norton, McAfee, OAG Flight Disk, Palm Desktop, PCDocs, Safety Gain, Right Fax, Shiva with ACE server Technology, Westmate/Westcheck, WinFrame Client, WordPerfect suite, Photoshop CE, PageMaker, QuarkxPress, Visio, Winfax Pro, PCAnywhere, Winbatch, Systems Administrator Protocols December 1994 to June 1996 TCP/IP, Telnet, NWLink IPX/SPX Compatible Transport, NWLink NetBIOS, NetBIEU, Novell IPX ODI, Netx, ODINSUP,  ODBC, SQL Server,    12/1994 - 06/1996 Merck-Medco Managed Care Inc. - Montvale, Woodcliff Lake, Parsippany,  Fairlawn & White Hall (Located in New Jersey)  • Systems Administrator  • Network support for over 2200 desktop & laptop computers attached to 113 servers including: Novell 3.12, NT  3.51, Windows 95, Novell Gateway Server, SQL 4.5, and Lotus Notes 4.0 located across one WAN campus.  • Provided sole support for 15 desktops attached to a UNISYS Gateway.  • Trained new hires on application procedural standards involving Mainframe, TCPIP, SQL, Lotus Notes, and other Merck-Medco Managed Care applications.  • Integral part of a 350 end user Ethernet to Token-Ring conversion over to Synoptics 5000 HUB's,  which was accomplished in a 4 week period with a team of 5.  • Documented and coordinated the conversion of 75 desktops from Ethernet to Token-Ring.  • Key player in four major moves involving a total of over 600 desktop and laptops. PC Systems Technician Apprise Insurance Information Services - Morristown, NJ January 1994 to December 1994 Provided phone and on-site personal support for VIKING, COREGIS, CRUM AND FOSTER, ASG, ISD,  TALEGEN, RICS, II, QUAD, ENVISION, and other various independent small company's consisting of over  5200 desktop and laptop computers in all to install, diagnose, and repair computer systems and peripherals  attached to any of 84 Novell, OS2, SQL, and Novell Gateway servers.  • Documented and coordinated installation procedures for a remote asynchronization application called Remote Node Binary  for Thinkpad laptops, ValuePoint and PS2 computers. PC Systems Technician Best Computers Inc - New York, NY January 1989 to December 1993 Phone and on-site support for The Sutton Group, inc., Steps to Recovery Inc., IPM, and the American Indian Community  House (non-profit organization).  • Assembled, tested, installed, repaired and upgraded computer systems.  • Built a 10 user license Novell Netware 2.15 server for The American Indian Community House.  • Wrote technical materials for Windows 3.1 configuration, software upgrades, and printer configurations.  • Recycling of toner cartridges for HP printers which required delicate un-assembling and re-assembling.  • MSDOS support Education Diploma Career Development Institute - New York, NY November 1992 None in Political Science Fairleigh Dickenson University - Teaneck, NJ October 1973 to June 1975 Skills Active Directory, Tech Support, Service Desk, Customer Support, Helpdesk Support, Help Desk, MAC, System Administrator Certifications/Licenses Certified Novell Engineer Present Systems Administration that includes network design, network security, network typology of server to node connectivity.    I am also Microsoft Certified, and have stayed current with all the Microsoft OS platforms. I am current in Microsoft office, the Adobe packages, and many other software packages. I understand thin client, how to install, and remote with back door port access through routers. I am familiar with the Macintosh systems.