Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Work Experience Systems Administrator Barclays - New York, NY September 2008 to June 2019 Responsibilities:  ? Provide desktop support for Back Office and Satellite users.  ? Troubleshoot desktops, laptops VDI mobile devices and hardware peripherals in n Windows 2007 Win10 environment  ? Support Market Data applications which include Bloomberg, Thomson Financial and several in-house proprietary applications  ? Permission user groups via Active Directory  ? Install applications via SCCM  ? Provide support for Citrix based applications and support of VMware  ? Resolve problems communicated via walk-ups, email, phone calls or helpdesk tickets  ? Provide training on the use of remote access and support any issues that may arise  ? Provided dedicated support for Tax, Finance, Compliance, Human Resources, Financial Crimes  ? Provided dedicated support for Fedline users  v Legal Win September 2017 to February 2018 Provided dedicated support from its inception in 2017 from February - April  ? Provided GTIS Managers and leads with morning and evening status updates highlighting key issues as well as improvements for the future  ? Coordinated daily shift schedules for each TechBar staff member while being conscious of their BAU Desktop Support responsibilities  ? Managed and set expectations for each visitor during interaction  ? Escalated high priority incidents to the relevant support groups and confirmed resolutions with the affected users    ? Office 2016 Migration Tech 9/2017 -2/2019  ? Provided dedicated support from its inception in 2017 from February - April  ? Provided GTIS Managers and leads with morning and evening status updates highlighting key issues as well as improvements for the future  ? Coordinated daily shift schedules for each TechBar staff member while being conscious of their BAU Desktop Support responsibilities  ? Managed and set expectations for each visitor during interaction  ? Escalated high priority incidents to the relevant support groups and confirmed resolutions with the affected users TechBar Lead TechBar February 2017 to September 2017 Provided dedicated support from its inception in 2017 from February - April  ? Provided GTIS Managers and leads with morning and evening status updates highlighting key issues as well as improvements for the future  ? Coordinated daily shift schedules for each TechBar staff member while being conscious of their BAU Desktop Support responsibilities  ? Managed and set expectations for each visitor during interaction  ? Escalated high priority incidents to the relevant support groups and confirmed resolutions with the affected users Systems Administrator Lehman Brothers - New York, NY August 2000 to September 2008 Responsibilities:  ? Provided support for 6,000 Branch and Remote site users in a Windows XP environment  ? Administered user accounts and security access for group folders and applications through proprietary systems  ? Provided weekly on-call after hours support based on a rotation schedule  ? Authored and revised support services documentation, including standard operating procedures and customer facing documentation  ? Installed and configured HP desktops and IBM/Lenovo laptops  ? Upheld software allocation and management through proprietary systems  ? Oversaw equipment distribution and retrieval of outdated hardware  ? Contributed to the integration effort of Lehman Brothers and Barclays Capital between technology platforms and end user support