Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Office of Fossil Energy Silver Spring, MD Systems Administrator with over 10 years spent implementing Information Technology solutions for the US government and private enterprises. Team oriented with experience in bottom up enterprise system implementations and integrating new technologies into corporate environments.    Core competencies include the management and administration of Microsoft Windows and Oracle Linux Server, VMware and ESXi servers, Microsoft Exchange and SQL Server, IT Asset Research and Purchasing, Documentation of System Configurations and Processes. Work Experience Systems Administrator Office of Fossil Energy – Department of Energy (ASM Research) - Germantown, MD July 2014 to Present Monitoring and maintaining the integrity of the VMware environment consisting of 40+ virtual servers and appliances pertinent to the mission of the Office of Fossil Energy. Administering the WebLogic environment and assisting developers with the deployment and quality control of custom WebLogic applications. Providing support for records administrators with the records management application WebCenter Content: Records as well as its maintenance and enhancements. Securing mission critical systems utilizing VMware Data Protection and Veritas NetBackup for backing up virtual machines and file servers along with performing application vulnerability scanning with WebInspect and providing user friendly analysis of the scan results. Document all system configurations and processes to assist with disaster recovery and future troubleshooting or enhancement requirements.    • Created a single document containing all the configurations for all the IT systems provided for the Office of Fossil Energy.  • Built a new WebLogic and WebCenter Content environment for the purpose of migrating the back end data from Oracle Database to Microsoft SQL Server.  • Researched and implanted Kerberos Single Sign-On Authentication for all WebLogic applications.  • Documented the decommissioning of a field sites datacenter and fully restored it in a separate location to facilitate the recovery and subsequent storage of all its data for records keeping.  • Led the upgrades of the VMware environment (vCenter Servers and ESXi hosts) from vSphere 4.0 to vSphere 5.5. Systems Administrator Integreon Discovery Solutions, Inc - Arlington, VA April 2013 to July 2014 Oversaw an environment comprised of over 150 physical, virtual, and cloud servers/workstations and 2300 global end users with Exchange Online/On-Premise mailboxes and Office 365 federated Active Directory accounts. Created and enforced corporate IT policies through the use of written documentation, group policy objects, Exchange ActiveSync policies, and Websense internet filter policies. Managed the corporate wireless account for North America including the purchase and distribution of corporate mobile devices. Assist with the backup of file and application servers to tape. Administered the on-premise Lync environment and liaised with vendor for diagnostic and troubleshooting purposes.    • Lead contact in the migration of Lync Online environment to the BT One Cloud solution for Microsoft Lync.  • Facilitated and consolidated all corporate wireless accounts within North America under a single carrier and campaigned initiative to upgrade all corporate mobile devices.  • Primary member in the transfer of approximately 90% of the local datacenter to a cloud datacenter.  • Created procedures and documentation for user and workstation account migrations across domains. Junior Systems Administrator Integreon Discovery Solutions, Inc - Arlington, VA April 2011 to April 2013 Assisted with the creation of user accounts and security groups within Active Directory as well as user and room mailboxes and distribution groups within Exchange. Created and updated both group policies and Windows local security policies. Facilitated patching of Windows workstations and servers utilizing Windows Server Update Services and licensing through Key Management Services. Maintained IIS servers for FTP, web, and password management services. Serve as single point of contact for Lync 2010 account distribution and problem resolution.    • Designed, implemented, and administered a virtual Lync 2010 Server Enterprise environment capable of supporting 2300 internal and external end users on both desktop and mobile clients utilizing enterprise voice and conferencing.  • Responsible for the migration of on-premise Exchange mailboxes to Office 365 as well as configuring accounts to federate with Lync Online or utilize Blackberry Business Cloud Services. Helpdesk / PC Technician Integreon Discovery Solutions, Inc - Arlington, VA April 2008 to April 2011 Provided support for local and remote users utilizing telephone and remote support methods including Remote Desktop, LogMeIn Rescue, VNC, and Desktop Authority Remote Management. Inventoried and maintained a list of all local IT assets. Prepared multiple conference rooms for meetings utilizing video conferencing, and day-to-day presentations. Maintained server and workstation security through Symantec Endpoint Protection client installs and policies.    • Standardized department specific hard drive images created utilizing Clonezilla as well as created and updated existing VMware templates.  • Designed and implemented Symantec Endpoint Protection environment to replace Symantec Antivirus.  • Built Key Management Services solution for the activation of Windows 7, Server 2008/R2, and Office 2010. Electronic Data Discovery (EDD) Specialist OnSite Sourcing, Inc - Arlington, VA October 2006 to April 2008 Responsible for the loading of sensitive client data onto the network while maintaining 100% data integrity. Track all loaded data and maintain organization within an established network folder structure. Follow guidelines provided by the client and project manager to perform discovery functions. Perform quality checks on all process data to meet internal quality control measures and prepare delivery of finalized data. Maintain confidentiality of processed client data according to corporate procedures and practices.    • Primary contact within EDD for multiple critical projects.  • Recognized new procedure and worked with software development for creation of new application to increase efficiency of document processing. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Systems UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND BALTIMORE COUNTY - Baltimore, MD 2006 Skills VMware vSphere (10+ years), Windows Server (10+ years), Oracle Enterprise Linux (5 years), Oracle WebLogic 11g (5 years), Oracle WebCenter Content: Records 11g (5 years), Veritas NetBackup (5 years), Drupal 7 (2 years), vSphere Data Protection (5 years), System Administrator (8 years), Active Directory (10+ years), Vmware (10+ years), Linux Administrator (5 years), Fortify WebInspect (1 year) Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ Present CompTIA Network+ Present Microsoft Certified Systems Administrator - Server 2003 Present Microsoft Certified Professional - Windows XP Present Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  Operating Systems  • Microsoft Windows Server (2003 – 2012R2)  • Oracle Enterprise Linux (6 – 7)  • Microsoft Windows (XP – 10)    Virtualization  • VMware vCenter (4.0 – 6.7)  • ESXi (4.0 – 6.7)  • Hyper-V Server (Windows Server 2008)    Enterprise Services  • Microsoft Active Directory 2008  • Microsoft Exchange 2013  • Microsoft Lync 2013  • Office 365  • Lync Online    Software  • Oracle WebLogic 11g  • Oracle WebCenter Content: Records 11g  • Oracle WebCenter Enterprise Capture 11g  • Veritas NetBackup 8.1  • VMware Data Protection 6.1  • Microsoft SQL Server (2008R2 – 2016)  • Fortify WebInspect   • IIS (7.0 – 8.5)  • Drupal 7    Hardware  • Sun Blade 6000 Chassis & Sun Blade Servers  • Dell PowerEdge Servers  • Oracle StorageTek SL150 Tape Library  • Google G100 Search Appliance  • Brocade 300 Fibre Switch  • Sun ZFS Storage 7310 & 7120 NAS Appliances  • Pillar Axiom 600 SAN