Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Vancouver, WA To obtain a position where I can use and grow my knowledge. I am constantly striving to learn and have a strong desire to improve any organization I am paired with. Work Experience Systems Administrator NW Flex Space/Luxury Vehicle Care - Milwaukie, OR October 2016 to April 2019 Maintenance  ? Complete new tenant areas within a shared warehouse. This included setting up fencing, building partition walls, painting, plumbing, low voltage and high voltage electrical work.  ? General exterior and interior upkeep including janitorial work, landscaping, using forklifts to move building materials, HVAC maintenance and troubleshooting various electrical issues.    IT/Security  ? Integrate, manage and troubleshoot security systems. This included surveillance systems, access control systems, intrusion alarm systems, environmental control systems, fire protection systems and fleet management systems.  ? Integrate, manage and troubleshoot servers running mission critical software. This included Office 365, QuickBooks, automotive invoicing software, printing invoicing software, access control database software and fleet management software.  ? New user setup for all personnel accessing each warehouse. This included creating badges for each individual accessing our properties. Badges included first and last name, photo, and company information. Each badge was an RFID card used to access the building as well as access the printers and forklifts. Customer Service Vetco October 2012 to April 2016 Fill out medical records for customers  ? Teach customers about various vaccines, medications, diseases and treatments  ? Collect payment from customers and hand out prescription medications  Veterinarian Assistant  ? Draw vaccines and fill out prescription labels  ? Restrain animals while vet examines and administers vaccines and medications  Clinic Lead  ? Transport crew to each clinic location  ? Collect and upkeep inventory for vaccines and prescription medications  ? Oversee clinic operations and assist crew members with any issues that arise Education GED Clackamas Community College 2008 Skills System Administrator Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/r-uc6nwchrf4z1rl Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xiof6tbfc0ceojsm Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information ? Physical and Technical Security:  ? Access Control Setup and Maintenance  ? Intrusion Alarm Setup and Maintenance  ? Surveillance Setup and Maintenance  ? Fire Alarm System Troubleshooting and Maintenance  ? Fleet Management Setup and Maintenance  ? Lockset Setup, Troubleshooting and Maintenance  ? Commercial Maintenance  ? Painting  ? Plumbing  ? Landscaping  ? HVAC Troubleshooting and Maintenance  ? Garage Door Troubleshooting and Maintenance  ? General Warehouse Upkeep (Janitorial Work)  ? Small Office IT Support  ? Workstation/Server Management  ? Printer Upkeep and Management  ? Access Control Management  ? Surveillance Management  ? Office 365 Management