Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - AT&T Jacksonville, FL Work Experience Systems Administrator AT&T - Jacksonville, FL 2008 to Present Systems Administrator with 20 years of experience with Microsoft Windows server and client operating  systems. Results driven, proven team player and collaborates effectively amongst a diverse work  environment.    AT&T, Jacksonville, FL - 2008 - Present  Senior Specialist- Systems Administrator - System Deployment - Windows    • Install and configure Microsoft Windows Server 2008/2012R2/2016 on HP and Dell hardware, including VM and Cloud deployment to support internal and external customers.  • Collaborate with teams across the organization to streamline and develop better build practices, through testing and documenting procedures.  • Reviewed all blueprint designs for Windows server projects to validate the project met technical  and build standards.  • Troubleshoot hardware issues with vendors and coordinate with technicians when a server is  not functional resulting in project delays.  • Installed and configured Veritas Netbackup and EMC Avamar backup client applications.  • Created VMware containers within VM host clusters for deploying Windows Server operating  systems. Systems Administrator I - Windows Server Team AT&T - Bothell, WA 2001 to 2008 Provided on call support for Microsoft Windows servers, troubleshooted issues during server  outages and worked with internal teams and outside vendors to limit downtime.  • Developed and maintained back up environment utilizing Tivoli Storage Manager and created  data retention policies geared toward customer needs.  • Tested and rolled out Microsoft security patches utilizing Update Expert.  • Implemented an imaging process to build servers across the network utilizing remote  management capabilities.  • Maintained File and Print services for 10000+ users. Created AD user accounts and Domain  Groups. Desktop Support AT&T - Bothell, WA 1999 to 1999 • Analyzed and rectified hardware, network, operating, and application system software issues for over 4,000 wireless users, including executive staff.  • Developed corporate standards for desktop computer software and hardware.  • Installed approved hardware and software, and configured standard operating systems.  • Supported point of sale company sites for both hardware and software.  • Completed several major projects, including Honolulu Cell Conversion and company-wide VPN  implementation. Education Bellevue Community College - Bellevue, WA