Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - SAIC Albuquerque, NM Work Experience Systems Administrator SAIC April 2013 to Present • Responsible for providing system support to Sandia National Labs CAD team of designers\analysts with application, server and customer support.  • Troubleshoot and address all aspects of the user's computing needs on  classified and unclassified networks. From desktop to server support issues.  • Interact with customers via phone, in-person and remotely via software.  Coordinate lone and team work to achieve service in a timely fashion. Work with  other Sandia support teams and service providers.  • Building, maintaining Citrix provisioning service servers (PVS) diskless 5.5  and 6.0 workstations and servers for users' classified computing.  • Administrating and maintaining Flex LM license servers and performing server  hardware maintenance\upgrades.  • Assisting CAD developers with implementing\troubleshooting design software  changes and configuring according to manufacturer's specifications.  • Perform preventative maintenance on servers, users' systems and infrastructure  to keep systems operational. Such as perform weekly roll out of security  scans and patch deployment.  • Supporting design analysts, designers, and engineers with the interoperability  of the PDMLink repository and the ePrime end products like Wildfire, Creo 2.0  and Creo 3.x. Systems Administrator The Kemtah Group May 2011 to April 2013 • Supported network client/server environment with CAD analysts/designers on National Lab networks.  •  Provided system administration and troubleshooting on Windows XP, Windows Vista and Windows 7, Windows 10, active directory, AIX client configuration, MS Office 2007 through and 2016. All on classified and unclassified networks.   • Installation and support of off the shelf and specialized office applications.   •  Trained co-workers, administrators and end users on software usage/network security, policies and procedures.  •  Responsible for detailed documentation for trouble tracking and organizational archiving.  • Evaluated and surveyed client-side and made technical recommendations of hardware, software, process and network requirements. Systems Analyst/ System Administrator Miratek Corp October 2007 to May 2011 • Supporting DEA and law enforcement personnel in the use of the EPIC system portal and sensitive data network. Maintained user accounts.  • Providing DEA end users with hardware and software technical support and maintenance to ensure that established security and procedural guidelines are met.  • Troubleshooting and identifying hardware compatibility issues with workstation configurations.  • Investigating and identifying routine user problems and configuration errors in a Windows 2003, Windows 2008, Windows 10 server and MS Windows XP/Windows Vista Windows 7/AIX network environment.  • Performed IT and LAN/WAN communication troubleshooting at end user's side  • Assisted in creating procedures to improve the processes of documenting and increase efficiency for the helpdesk.  • Provide support for MS Office Suite and Windows XP/Windows 7/Windows 10 operating systems and network file and print servers.  • Maintained user accounts for Active Directory and AIX environments. Computer Operator V Cordev, Inc 2000 to September 2007 • Generated specialized reports using SQL for help desk progress reports.  • Supported Windows NT, Windows XP, Windows 2003 server, Microsoft Exchange/Outlook email clients, Microsoft Internet Explorer, Microsoft Office suite, Microsoft Exchange Server Administration, Microsoft Windows active Directory infrastructure and government specialty programs.  • Configured and maintained various network resources, CPU's and software for network users on WAN/LAN and provided general hardware support.  • Knowledgeable in networking experience with TCP/IP, level 5 wiring and workstation  • configuration from the network card to hub/switch.  • Blackberry Enterprise server administrator.  • Educated and provided continuing technical support to users on Fort Bliss Military Base in government computer use, policies and procedures.  • Conducted site surveys of clients work areas and made necessary recommendations of hardware, software and network configurations to meet network and user requirements.  • Coordinated between network administrators, outside support, users and contractor LAN support teams for system maintenance and troubleshooting  • Responsible for administering specialty systems that included terminal emulators and Blackberry portable e-mail devices.  • Responsible for creating and implementing help desk documentation, progress reports and procedures for managers and users on Fort Bliss Military Base. Computer Specialist/Telephone Technical Assistant Dynamic Concepts, Inc 1996 to 1999 • Assisted with the installation of telephone, fax, modem and LAN lines.   • Supported network client/server environment with 3,000+ users on military base.  • Provided system administration and troubleshooting on Windows NT, Windows 2003.  • Client support on Windows 95, 98, and Windows XP. Education Bachelors Degree in Management/Computer Information Systems Park University - Fort Bliss, TX 2001 Skills Active directory (10+ years), Lan/wan (10+ years), System administration (10+ years), Tcp, Tcp/ip (10+ years), Network security, Client/server (10+ years), Scripting, Sql (1 year), Ms office, Aix, Windows 10, Windows 2003, Windows 7, Windows 98, Windows vista, Windows xp, Lan (10+ years), Cad, Client support (10+ years), System Admin (10+ years), System Administrator (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ Present ID# COMP001001455508