Systems Administrator II <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Systems Administrator II - Joslin Diabetes Center Roslindale, MA I am an enthusiastic, goal driven, hands-on IT professional with more than 5+ years' experience in support that is  always willing to learn about modern technologies and best practices. I have a proven record of accomplishment of  managing and maintaining servers and desktops in LAN/WAN network infrastructures. I am looking forward to a  challenging job in a reputable organization to utilize my systems administration and support skills for the growth of  an organization and myself. Work Experience Systems Administrator II Joslin Diabetes Center - Boston, MA July 2016 to Present • Responsible for the installation, support, patching, and management of all Microsoft Windows Server  2008R2, 2012, 2016 in a mixed mode of Physical and Virtual.  ? VMware 6.7 Administration supporting the Joslin Diabetes Center  ? Administration of the Active Directory environment, which includes LDAP, DHCP, DNS, ADFS & Group policy.  ? Administration of the Commvault Backup system which an IBM tape library is used to house all of the tapes and sent off to Iron Mountain.  ? EMC VNX & Unity administration, which I am responsible for reporting any hardware failures, any  firmware upgrades and work with EMC to solve.  ? Act as the Tier 3 Support for all the help desk tickets that come in to the Service Desk.  ? Took the lead on the back-end storage migration where we moved from an EMC VNX platform to an EMC  Unity platform. Migrated all of the block storage which includes VMware datastores & Server attached  LUNS to the new Unity platform. I was also a part of the NAS migration where we moved all of the Joslin  CIFS shares to the new Unity platform.  ? Apart of the Request for Change process where we communicate our potential changes and present them  to our Change Committee to minimize downtime and make the organization aware of any changes.  ? Monitor our systems and network infrastructure using a variety of tools to better protect the environment and keep an eye on malicious activity. (Solarwinds NPM, AD Audit, Mcafee Anti-Virus, Cisco  Umbrella, Cisco ISE)  ? Responsible for support and management of Joslin's Hybrid Microsoft Exchange 2010 environment which Joslin has an o365 tenant in the cloud. As Joslin is going through an O365 Migration to migrate all on  premise mailboxes to the O365 cloud. Also Administering the Azure Ad Connect server.  ? Administration of a variety of networking technologies such as Cisco iOS, Nexus 5k, Brocade Fibre  Switching  ? Responsible for Firewall administration on a Cisco Firepower whether it is setting up site to site VPN or Create/Modify access rules within the environment.  ? Responsible for administering the Citrix 7.15 Xenapp environment.  ? Implemented the Microsoft Distributed File System (DFS) in the Joslin Community since we were using an old method to map a drive letters and ran out of drive letters to use for file shares. We set up one  namespace and pointed all the shares to it. Systems Engineer Wellesley Bank - Wellesley, MA January 2015 to July 2016 Installation, configuration, and maintenance of local and network-based printers, desktops, laptops, etc.  ? Ensured the security and quality of the software and hardware utilizing GFI Languard 2012 R2 for software  product updates and patches.  ? Administered DNS, DHCP & Group Policy Objects (GPOs) throughout the Active Directory (AD) enterprise.  ? Manage Mitel phone system & basic configuration on the bank's HP Procurve Switches.  ? Tested the IT networking systems, monitored the performance of network servers and maintained the bank's computer systems using Solarwinds NPM.  ? Implemented Solarwinds LEM so we can audit our network. (File & Security Audits) Along with setting up  alerts to see which account are locking out and logging in after hours.  ? Documented and maintained supply of all required inventory.  ? Created and updated support documentation for all desktop/server related issues.  ? Troubleshoot, diagnosed, and repaired end user computer hardware and software problems via  telephone, remote tools (Go to Assist), or in person.  ? Monitor/Manage Veeam Backup & Replication for virtual servers backup jobs that run daily and Cloud  backup (VaultLogix) for the file level backup.  ? Setup MDT 2013 which replaced Symantec Ghost to standardize the desktop/laptop imaging. Desktop Support Hebrew Senior Life - Roslindale, MA December 2012 to January 2015 Management of user accounts, permissions, groups, etc. using Active Directory Users and Tools.  Add/remove user access and permissions.  ? Setup of new Windows Deployment Tool server. Standardize workstation imaging by creating a new series  of Desktop and Laptop images with Windows 7. Upgraded Deployment Tool server 2010 to 2013.  ? Utilize ManageEngine Desktop Central for application deployment to users. Deploy and upgrade  applications remotely to fulfil user requests.  ? Manage and administer Windows Server print queues. Configure MFP for printing, faxing, and network  scanning.  ? Contribute to on-going design and operations of the IT Help Desk. Suggest and implement new process, documentation, and procedures to improve efficiency. Education Associate in Applied Science degree in Applied Science Bunker Hill Community College - Charlestown, MA June 2013 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO Switching, CITRIX, DHCP, VMWARE, DNS, MS EXCHANGE, EMC VNX, FIREWALL, SSL, IOS, WIRELESS, MS OFFICE 365, WINDOWS 10, WINDOWS 7, NEXUS, EMC Unity, System Administrator, Powershell, System Admin, Brocade Fibre Switching Additional Information Highlights of IT Skills:    Active Directory, Group Policy, DHCP, DNS, Documentation, Windows Server 2008R2, 2012R2, 2016, Powershell  Cisco Switching (Nexus, IOS), VMware vCenter 6.7, Cisco Firepower Firewall, Citrix 7.15 XenApp  Wireless Technology (Aruba & Cisco Meraki), EMC VNX/Unity Storage, Brocade Fibre Switching, Microsoft  Exchange, MS Office 365, Commvault, Active Directory Federated Services, HP & Dell blade Servers, Windows 7,  Windows 10, SSL Certificates