Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Louisville, KY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator LEAP Agency October 2018 to July 2019 Web hosting systems administrator for 600+ websites across 100+ servers. Administration, monitoring, and maintenance of server hardware, infrastructure, SANs, hyper converged nodes, firewalls, load balanacers, and overall  network for two datacenters, multiple remote offices and numerous VPN users. Successfully maintained 99.999%  uptime for our largest clients. Extensive log analysis for tracking down malicious attacks on web servers and making  firewall and load balancer adjustments when needed and preventive maintenance to avoid problems. Routinely  upholding PCI compliance with thorough checks against new patches and potential threats. Assisted web developers with site migrations to new servers, and smooth transitions from staging environments to production servers. IT Systems Administrator LINAK US Inc July 2015 to April 2018 Systems administrator for North & South American headquarters of a global organization. Provided local support to  300+ users. Project manager and lead designer for complete redesign of network infrastructure with the addition of a secondary data center. Implemented extensive redundancy thus reducing production downtime. Managed routing,  trunking, subnetting, DCHP, and DNS. Handled the ordering, replacement, and upgrades of all MDF and IDF software & hardware. Maintained Active Directory group policies, users, and groups. SIP management and configuration for S4B.  Implemented Quarterly DR testing and failovers. Provided extensive documentation of nearly every major task with thorough descriptions and screenshots for step-by-step instructions as a means of setting a standard way of process for  our team. Provided consistent and in-depth follow-up within ticketing system to keep the end-users & my team well  informed of the status of tickets. Maintained strict SLAs with our end-users to ensure outstanding satisfaction.  Performed vigorous network troubleshooting issues across many VLANs. Assisted satellite users and external vendors with VPN connections. Director, IT Operations The Data Vault March 2010 to May 2015 Performed role of sales engineer in meetings with prospective clients and current customers needing technical  specifications of our product offerings. Server administration for active SaaS infrastructure. Consultant for clients  needing guidance in developing an improved contingency plan with focus on cyber liability. Analyzed data usage  summaries to determine a best course of action in reducing RTO & RPO within customer's budget. Advised clients in selecting appropriate retention plans for backup/archive data that meets compliance requirements for the company.  Followed NIST standards with the handling of client data to uphold all regulations necessary for data at rest and in transit to and from the offsite datacenter. Provisioned new servers for onsite appliances at customer locations.  Maintained strict downtime windows for server maintenance. Stood Accountable for preserving service level  agreements and support response time. Education Associate of Applied Science in Computer Graphic Design in Computer Graphic Design Sullivan College of Technology & Design March 2005 to March 2008