Systems Administrator III <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> III Systems Administrator III - University of California San Diego, CA Work Experience Systems Administrator III University of California - San Diego, CA September 2016 to Present Responsible for the administration and build-out of on-premises and cloud infrastructure in a multi-tenant CUI and NIST 800-53 certified HIPAA environment for the Health Cyber-Infrastructure Division at the San Diego Supercomputer Center at UC San Diego.    Key Accomplishments include building out cloud infrastructure in AWS, extending shared services to the cloud to support a hybrid approach, the implementation of an automated patch management solution, implementation of monitoring suite, created self-service portal to assist with account management, password resets, etc, migration of infrastructure to new versions of Windows Server, building out and maintaining hosts for wide range of external client projects. IT Systems Administrator L3 Technologies Linkabit - San Diego, CA January 2015 to September 2016 Responsible for the administration of the IT infrastructure for L3's Linkabit division. Responsible for implementing and maintaining WAN/LAN infrastructure, Windows server infrastructure, Exchange, VMware, Dell EqualLogic storage, NetBackup & Veeam, ShoreTel phone system, patching, monitoring, maintaining compliance with corporate IT directives, and maintaining SOX compliance.    Key accomplishments include the migration to Cisco ASA firewalls in three locations, deployment of Cisco AnyConnect VPN client, implementation of RemoteApp, NPS (RADIUS), the infrastructure design of an Engineering lab, deployment of Microsoft MDT 2013, redesigned storage network, and leveraged KACE for inventory and software deployment. Sr. Windows Systems Engineer SmartDrive Systems - San Diego, CA May 2014 to January 2015 Responsible for the administration and design of Windows Server infrastructure, Hyper-V, Exchange, SCCM, Lync, and SharePoint 2013. Also, the administration of corporate network infrastructure, web filtering, backups, and monitoring.    Key accomplishments were relocating the corporate IT infrastructure to a new office one month after I started. I lead a migration to SharePoint 2013, implemented Cisco AnyConnect VPN, Symantec anti-spam messaging gateway, antivirus server, web filtering, RADIUS, and IPAM. I upgraded Domain Controllers to Windows Server 2012 R2 and participated in the implementation of SCCM 2012 and created many software packages for end-users to install via SCCM's Software Center. Sr. Systems Administrator Peregrine Semiconductor - San Diego, CA December 2011 to April 2014 Administration of corporate global IT infrastructure. Responsible for Cisco network equipment, Windows Server infrastructure, VMware administration, Exchange management, EMC SAN/NAS management, monitoring and network antivirus server.    Key accomplishments were the setup of new office locations, implementation of monitoring tools (Nagios and Cacti), file and email archiving solutions, wireless controller, virtualization of servers, and migration of fileservers to a NAS. I held a major role in a security initiative where I implemented Palo Alto firewalls, SIEM, vulnerability scanning, web filtering, hardening of hosts, and the segmentation of the network into VLANs from a flat design that existed when I started. IT Support Specialist Websense, Inc - San Diego, CA July 2010 to December 2011 Responsible for providing user support, performing root-cause analysis of issues, documenting procedures and corrective actions, authoring solutions, image desktops/laptops, configure Cisco phones and performing user adds, changes and deletions.  In addition to my support responsibilities, I took on tasks from the Network Infrastructure team including VLAN assignments, trunk configuration, WAP deployment and assisted users with access-layer issues. IT Specialist GSCSNJ, Inc - Cherry Hill, NJ September 2005 to June 2010 Responsible for maintaining the functionality of the corporate IT platform including the administration of Windows Servers, implementation of Exchange 2007, managing backups, PBX system, and coordinating with various groups inside and outside the organization on projects.  I was a key member in developing the IT plan and implementation during the merger of three separate companies into one. Key accomplishments include the implementation of Exchange 2007 and the migration of mailboxes of three companies, implementation of antispam gateway, participated in the migration to one domain across all sites and the installation of a new phone system. I also implemented RRAS, Terminal Services, standardized our desktop/laptop image, and provided end user support. Education Certificate Camden County College - Cherry Hill, NJ 2004 A.A.S. in Computer Information Systems Cumberland County College - Vineland, NJ 2000 Skills Active Directory, Vmware, System Admin, System Administrator, Linux Certifications/Licenses Red Hat Certified System Administrator June 2019 to June 2022 Cisco Certified Network Professional (CCNP) April 2018 to April 2021 AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associate July 2017 to July 2020 AWS Certified SysOps Administrator - Associate November 2017 to November 2020 CCNA Security August 2013 to April 2021 MCSE CompTIA A+ April 2004 to Present CompTIA Network+ June 2004 to Present CompTIA Security+ October 2008 to Present A valid IT Specialist certification Additional Information • Administration of Windows Server environment  • Administration of AWS  • Network Administration  • VMware Management  • SAN/NAS Management  • Microsoft Exchange administration  • Patch Management    • Managing network antivirus servers  • Administration of email archiving software  • Monitoring  • Monitor, run, and restore backups  • Install and maintain systems hardware and software  • Creation of documentation and network diagrams