Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Kaiser Permanente Duvall, WA Work Experience Systems Administrator Kaiser Permanente 2018 to Present • Key role in supporting the migration of 24,000 people to Office 365.  • Exchange 2010 - client, ProofPoint.  • Monitoring Microsoft server performance.  • Maintaining Filer permissions and folder support • Working with KP National to merge ServiceNow databases with KP Washington. Systems Administrator KPG - Seattle, WA 2015 to 2018 • Set up and supported company-wide SharePoint from the ground up.  • Led the transition from Office 2007 to Office 365.  • Key role in moving company to new office. Including tear down and set up. IT Specialist SkinnyPop Popcorn - Austin, TX 2014 to 2015 • Set up an intranet and a local domain with Active Directory.  • Project manager during the install of our network and cable installation.  • Creating all SOPs and policies to put into place as well as reaching out to each employee to go over and cover and questions they may have for the new processes. IT Support Oberto Brands - Kent, WA 2011 to 2014 Project Manager Experience with end-user setup. Handled technical troubleshooting within an enterprise environment, including system crashes, slow-downs and data recoveries. Engaged and tracked issues with responsibility for the timely documentation, escalation (if appropriate), resolution and closure of trouble tickets.  Selected Contributions:   • Network Configuration: Set up and integrated 275 end-user stations in multiple locations to be communicating on the same network.  • Project Management: Drove Office 365 and Outlook 2013 upgrade and integration with cloud services for all users.  • Process Documentation: Documented the resolutions for the top 20 user issues and passed the knowledge on in the department to provide a superb customer service experience. Help Desk KTH Parts Industries - Saint Paris, OH 2005 to 2011 Performed diagnostics and troubleshooting of system issues, documented help desk tickets/resolutions, and maintained equipment inventory lists.  • Performed set-up, install and transport of equipment on an as-needed basis.  • Provided computer help desk support via telephone communications with end-users. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems in TECHNOLOGY SUMMARY Wright State University 2002 Skills System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory