Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Winter Garden, FL Goal-oriented and collaborative IT professional with experience applying hardware and software design, installation, configuration, and administration to support growing businesses. Proven analytic and problem-solving skills with the keen ability to assess needs, define requirements, develop value-added solutions, and execute technical solutions that streamline and improve operating efficiencies. Adept in communicating with technical and non-technical audiences. Develop system documentation and create policies to meet the needs of dynamic and continuously changing environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Honda Engineering NA Inc - Marysville, OH 2014 to Present • Responsible for engineering, administration, migration of Honda Engineering's virtual environment.  • Responsible for IT Security policies and procedure creation based on the ITIL v3 library and integration/compliance with Honda North American regional policies and Honda Motor global policies.  • Responsible for Honda Engineering NA Inc. mobile device management enrollment and administration.  • Project Manager for Windows 10 Migration of 2000 devices within Honda Engineering NA Inc.  • Responsible for Honda Engineering NA Inc. SmartSheet configuration, implementation, licensing, enrollment, deprovisioning IT Systems Supervisor Columbus Metropolitan Library - Columbus, OH July 2010 to August 2014 • Oversee the Library's server environment (including hardware, software, and supporting equipment).  • Supervise System Administrators (3) and set performance expectations and guidelines.  • Work with IT Manager to develop strategic, tactical, and operational goals and objectives related to the Library's desktop and server / infrastructure environment. Education Columbus State Community College 1993 to 1994 Ohio State University 1991 to 1992 High school or equivalent Hilliard Davidson High School - Hilliard, OH August 1988 to July 1991 Skills System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory, Vmware, SCCM Certifications/Licenses ITIL v3 Foundations Present OCDMA March 2013 to March 2015 Groups COVMUG January 2010 to Present Central Ohio VMware Users Group member for 9 years COISSA January 2018 to Present Central Ohio chapter of Information Systems Security Association HYP March 2017 to Present Honda Young Professionals member for over two years Honda North America Information Systems Security Committee March 2014 to Present this running Committee of Information Technology professionals has representation from all Honda Companies in North America, and is charged with development, implementation, and compliance of Information Security Policies for Honda Companies in the North American Region.