Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator New Hampton, NH Work Experience Systems Administrator Plymouth State University - Plymouth, NH July 2013 to Present • Windows Administrator responsible for the server maintenance, troubleshooting, optimization, and deployment of all Windows Server operating system versions 2008-2019.    • Active Directory administrator well versed in Group Policy design and deployment, domain  management, DNS, DHCP, Certificate Authority/PKI, and share drive and disk quota management.    • Automation of Operating System Deployment using Powershell and System Center Configuration  Manager. This includes the management of a computer lab image with over 100 unique applications.    • VDI Administrator solely responsible for the design and implementation of the University's Virtual  Desktop Infrastructure. This is a VMware Horizon View environment servicing hundreds of machines across campus.    • Backup administrator for all University operations. This entails managing long term disaster recovery of over 20TB of data monthly using Veeam Backup and Replication.    • Datacenter administrator tasked with day-to-day operations. Responsibilities include management of 4 VMware vSphere environments and 5 SANs. Operating systems supported include Windows Server, ESXi, CentOS/Oracle Linux. SAN implementations include VSAN, Dell Compellent, Fujitsu Eternus, Dell Powervault, Tegile, and Quantum.    • Linux Administrator responsible for assisting the primary Linux SME, Oracle DBAs, and Management  Information Systems staff when necessary. Familiar with the use of SALT for configuration changes.    • Tasked with lifecycle and purchasing decisions of over 500 Windows, MacOS, and thin client machines on a 4 year replacement cycle. One of two primary decision makers for the evaluation and purchasing of all datacenter server and storage equipment.    • Responsible for configuring and troubleshooting both Windows and Linux server firewalls and dictating to Network Administration team all ACL rules that apply to server and client subnets.    • Assists primary O365 administrator with routine operation of Exchange Online and SharePoint  environments.    • Security and update patching via WSUS, SCCM, VMware Update Manager, and management of CylancePROTECT anti-virus.    • Licensing and support contract administrator for all software agreements, including but not limited to Microsoft, VMware, Adobe Creative Cloud, Autodesk, Matlab, Minitab, IBM SPSS, and ArcGIS. Network Administrator CITY OF LACONIA 2009 to July 2013 • Single administrator responsible for the day-to-day operation of all computers and devices under City Hall's jurisdiction. This required the support and configuration of networks separated both geographically and politically.    • Administration and management of four separate Active Directory domains.    • Support and administration of the City of Laconia's Microsoft Exchange server.    • Managed network infrastructure for City Hall and off-site locations including fiber lines, VPN connectivity, firewall operation and configuration, and terminal services support.    • Responsible for maintaining and configuring the City's Active Directory catalog and sole design of its Group Policy.    • Responsible for the management of the City of Laconia website. Education Associate of Science in Network Administration Lakes Region Community College 2009 Skills Active Directory, DNS, Windows Server, Vmware, Linux, DHCP, Powershell, System Center Configuration Manager, Virtualization, Backup Administration, VDI, SAN Administration