Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> AIX Administrator Bethesda, MD Serve as a Systems Engineer which provides systems support in a data center environment. Support encompasses hardware, software, installations, updates, patches, fixes workarounds, documentation and training. Responsible for backups, restores, disaster recovery. Work with other systems engineers and administrators as part of a larger team providing Operations and Maintenance support. This support includes, but is not limited to the following:    ? Maintain multiple LPARs  ? Create and maintain a base AIX Operating System  ? Maintain and adjust the established LPARs, as needed, to ensure optimal AIX Operating  ? System performance  ? Maintain AIX and supporting software inventory, e.g. software license keys, software  ? versions, number of licenses owned, IP addresses, and interfaces Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Actionet at DOE - Germantown, MD January 2016 to Present UNIX Linux Team Lead (at DOE)    Supervise seven UNIX Linux engineers supporting 500+ systems across the DOE. As subsystems owner, manage the life cycle of the systems including meeting the patching requirements within 30 days. Systems Engineer - AIX Halfaker at DOD - US Army - Alexandria, VA April 2015 to December 2016 Systems Engineer at Halfaker and Associates (US Army Publishing Directorate)     Serves as a Systems Engineer which provides systems support for the U.S. Army Publishing Directorate customers in an enterprise data center   environment. Support encompasses hardware, software, installations, updates, patches, fixes workarounds, documentation and training. Responsible for backups, restores, disaster recovery. Work with other systems engineers and administrators as part of a larger team providing O&M support. This support includes, but is not limited to the following:    RESPONSIBILITIES:     ? Establish LPAR profiles that specify the number of processors, the required memory, and which input/output devices and slots are to be allocated to the partition, and establish LPAR cloning standard operating procedures.  ? Design, configure, and maintain LPARs required to support various non-production and production components, such as database or application servers, with the configuration design.  ? Establish a secure and hardened AIX Operating System platform that includes software such as SSH, Tivoli Storage Manager (TSM) Client, IBM PowerHA.  ? Conduct AIX Operating System security scans to meet customer’s security guidelines to ensure that the operating system is sufficiently secured and hardened.  ? Implement a checklist of DISA STIG compliance measures for AIX 5.3, 6.1 and 7.1.  ? Deploy security patches and updates on an ongoing basis.  ? Address necessary security findings provide mitigation strategies and recommendations.  ? Monitor and tune AIX Operating System and supporting software, as needed, to optimize application performance.  ? Determines problem resolution for issues related to AIX and supporting software  ? Coordinates and supports deployment of AIX supporting software, and application related software upgrades and patches.  ? Performs LPAR back-up and test restore in concert with established guidelines  ? Apply best practices where possible.  ? Develop documentation including the use of flowcharts, project specifications, or diagrams; develop and modify illustrations of operational sequences necessary to meet user requirements.  ? Analyze new and existing vendor software; install, maintain, and customize vendor software.  ? Develop and recommend alternative system engineering approaches to realize desired specifications and enhancements based on user requirements.  ? Consult with end users to identify current operational procedures and clarify user objectives.  ? Monitor system and application performance to detect errors; apply testing procedures and methodologies (diagnostic software) and provide interpretation of data Provide a root-cause analysis.  ? Provide input during client strategic planning as part of technical expertise.  ? Provide guidance to and assist in the training of less experienced staff; provides hardware and /software training as required.  ? Experience in deploying AIX 5.3, 6.1 and 7.1 using the NIM in secured environments,e.g. DISA.     ? Maintain multiple LPARs  ? Create and maintain a base AIX Operating System  ? Maintain and adjust the established LPARs, as needed, to ensure optimal AIX Operating  ?  System performance  ? Maintain AIX and supporting software inventory, e.g. software license keys, software  ? versions, number of licenses owned, IP addresses, and interfaces. Sr Systems Administrator Raytheon at NOAA - Suitland, MD April 2014 to April 2015 Sr. Systems Administrator (Raytheon) at NOAA     ? Analyze, modify, and design computer environments and applications to ensure user  ? requirements/program objectives are met.  ? Apply best practices where possible. Develop documentation of operational sequences necessary to meet user requirements.  ? Analyze new and existing vendor software; install, maintain, and customize vendor software as required.  ? Consult with end users to identify current operational procedures and clarify user objectives.  ? The environment comprised of Bladecenters H, p5, p6 and p7 systems running AIX 5.3 and AIX 6.1. Systems Administrator IBM at Blue Cross Blue Shield - Newark, NJ August 2013 to March 2014 Systems Administrator at IBM (Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield of NJ)     ? Function as a team member on the IBM Architectural and Engineering Team comprising of the IBM Architect, Project Manager, Service Delivery Manager, SAN Engineer and myself.  ? The Team is Customer facing and charged with special projects to update the 400+ AIX 6.1 servers via hardware tech refreshes, OS upgrades and patches as well as middleware upgrades.  ? Business and Enterprise impact analyses are performed followed by testing plans and documentation for Team IBM India to implement over the weekend change windows.  ? The system hardware at Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield is a mix of p7-770 and Bladecenters H and Power Blade servers. Systems Engineer Halfaker at DOD - US Army - Alexandria, VA January 2013 to August 2013 Systems Engineer at Halfaker and Associates (US Army Publishing Directorate)     ? Performed AIX systems Administration remotely for the US Army. Participated in system upgrades and troubleshooting.  ? The environment comprised of Bladecenters H, p6 systems running AIX 5.3 and AIX 6.1 supporting the FileNETplatform. Systems Administrator III SSAI at NOAA - Suitland, MD March 2011 to January 2013 Systems Administrator III (SSAI) at NOAA     ? Function as Technical Lead for the Baseline Configuration Project that will standardize and document the entire process through CM.  ? Analyze, modify, and design computer environments and applications to ensure user requirements/program objectives are met.  ? Apply best practices where possible. Develop documentation of operational sequences necessary to meet user requirements.  ? Analyze new and existing vendor software; install, maintain, and customize vendor software as required.  ? Consult with end users to identify current operational procedures and clarify user objectives.  ? The environment comprised of Bladecenters H, p5, p6 and p7 systems running AIX 5.3 and AIX 6.1. Systems Engineer Infozen at DHS - TSA - Annapolis Junction, MD May 2008 to March 2011 Systems Engineer (Infozen, Inc.) at DHS-TSA     ? Build AIX systems per Change Requests and build documents. Diagnose and troubleshoot issues. Submit Change Requests for patches and attend Technical Review Boards to defend the CR. Manage systems and changes through developed CM procedures.  ? Analyze, modify, and/or design computer environments and applications to ensure user requirements/program objectives are met.  ? Apply best practices where possible. Develop documentation including the use of flowcharts, project specifications, or diagrams; develop/modify illustrations of operational sequences necessary to meet user requirements.  ? Analyze new and existing vendor software; install, maintain, and customize vendor software as required.  ? Develop and recommend alternative system engineering approaches to realize desired specifications and/or enhancements based on user requirements. Perform feasibilitystudies, life cycle analysis, and/or cost/benefit studies.  ? Consult with end users to identify current operational procedures and clarify user objectives.  ? Monitor system and application performance to detect errors; apply testing procedures and methodologies (diagnostic software) and provide interpretation of data.  ? Provide a root-cause analysis for recurring or critical problem.  ? Provide input during client strategic planning (as required) as part of technical expertise.  ? Provide guidance to and assist in the training of less experienced staff; provides hardware and software training as required. Sr Systems Administrator Lockheed Martin at USDA - Beltsville, MD January 2006 to January 2008 Sr. AIX Administrator at Lockheed Martin     ? Monitor and maintain the organization’s pSeries  systems to provide maximum uptime for mission critical applications. On assignment with the U.S. Department of Agriculture (U.S.D.A.) Sr Systems Administrator IBM at DHS - Customs and Border Protection - Springfield, VA December 2003 to January 2006 Sr. AIX Administrator at IBM     ? Monitor and maintain the organization’s pSeries  systems to provide maximum uptime for mission critical applications. On assignment with the U.S. Department of Homeland Security – U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP).  ? Troubleshoot systems and filesystems issues in conjunction with the TEC operator.  ? Prepare the root cause analysis for the management.  ? Perform system upgrade and patches as required.  ? Monitor the Veritas Netbackup  system and prepare the tapes for off-site storage. Sr Systems Administrator American Chemistry Council - Arlington, VA October 1993 to December 2003 Sr .AIX Administrator at American Chemistry Council     ? Monitor and maintain the organization’s eight RS/6000 or pSeries  systems to provide maximum uptime for mission critical applications such as the ERP and HR systems (Oracle 11i), TIMSS and the Tivoli Storage Manager (TSM v5.1.7.2) and the FileNET  system which backups all of the AmericanChemistry Council’s data on daily basis.   ? Plan, coordinate and implement hardware and softwareupgrades. Perform problem resolution.   ? Develop and train a colleague to provide AIX administrationstaff backup. The American Chemistry Council pSeriessystems include a SP2 9076 running PSSP, HACMP and AIX 5.1.     RightFAX  Administrator - Monitor and maintain the organization’s fax server (RightFAX).  Plan, coordinate and implement hardware and software upgrades. Perform problem resolution.Develop and train a colleague to provide RightFAX administration staff backup.     TSM Administrator - Plan, coordinate and implement hardware and software upgrades.  Perform problem resolution. Develop and train a colleague to provide TSM administration staff backup.     Oracle 11i - Provided the initial hardware design, procurement and coordination of installation of operating system and applications software. Research, plan and perform patching of ERP and HR modules. Diagnosed and troubleshoot Oracle 11i system wide outages.     Technical support for Help Desk - Respond to the User Consultants and the Help Desk at this organization as the third level support and escalation point for complex technical problems. Manager - Computer Operations ADP - Rockville, MD March 1979 to August 1989 Computer Operations Manager at ADP in Rockville, MD for 10 years    ? Managed day-to-day operations and a staff of 48 mainframe computer operators in a high-paced and time sensitive processing of payrolls and accounting clients numbering more than ten thousands.  ? Developed and trained new staff. Managed and prioritize processing schedules. Responsible for developing and maintaining department’s budget for hardware, software and staff. Education Associate Skills AIX (10+ years), TSM (10+ years), HACMP (10+ years), System Administrator, SAN (5 years), System Admin Additional Information Current Security Clearance - DOE Q which is equivalent to a DOD Top Secret Clearance,    Skills and Experience:    Built 800+ AIX servers using NIM for DHS at TSA  AIX 5.3, 6.1 and 7.1  NIM  IBM P5, P6 and P7 Power Systems  IBM pSeries  Systems  HACMP and PowerHA  TSM 5.5 and 6.x  RightFAX  IBM VIO 2.x  LPAR  IBM Bladecenter H  McData  IBM DCX  IBM SVC  IBM DS8700  FileNET IMS    Fluent in the French language and U.S. Citizen since 1972.    U.S. Customs and Border Protection Full Security Clearance (equivalent to secret).    US. Department of Homeland Security – TSA – DoD Secret Clearance.    U.S. Department of Energy – Q Level Security Clearance equivalent to DOD Top Secret Clearance.