Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Mission Regional Medical Hospital Edinburg, TX Multidiscipline professional with 15 years' experience in computer systems management and the  implementation. Skill in Data Center Architecture, Highly Knowledgeable in Microsoft Active  Directory, PowerShell Programming, ETL, Database Query, Project Management, Data Reporting. I have  experience with Linux systems, Enterprise storage appliances as well as backup systems such as  Compellent, Clarion, NetApp. Knowledgeable in AWS and other cloud storage applications.  Graduate of UTPA with a bachelor's degree in Computer Information Systems and a Masters in Business  from UTRGV. Work Experience Systems Administrator Mission Regional Medical Hospital - Mission, TX 2018 to Present 78572 (956) 323-1350 Director of Information Technology City of San Juan Texas - San Juan, TX 2017 to 2018 McAllen, TX 78501 (956) 223-2254 Information Technology Systems Analyst South Texas College - McAllen, TX 2012 to 2017 78501 (956) 872-8311 Skills Engineer, Drivers, Property management, Operations, Strategic planning Additional Information SKILLS    I have working experience with team supervision of various personnel and project management with large  scale deployments of various business systems. I am familiar with SCRUM and Agile methodologies  for project implementation. Lead implementation of current company businesses into a shared service  setting, streamlining processes which resulted in increased efficiencies and savings to the bottom line. I  have been the key driver in development of an organization-wide strategic planning, vision process, and  startup operations of the property management business. Created and analyzed statistical data to enhance  processes, reduce contact drivers, and meet legal compliance deadlines. I have been responsible for  hiring process for all levels within my department. Skill levels ranging from technician to Systems  Engineer.