Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Northwest Integrated Health Edgewood, WA Work Experience Systems Administrator Northwest Integrated Health - Tacoma, WA April 2019 to Present NWIH is an integrated health care system that focus on creating an evidence-based, patient-centered, integrated, treatment model for substance-use-disorder; and to increase awareness about addiction as a chronic disease. My role is to manage the entire company's software, hardware, security, and networking systems of all their branch locations. Ensure all systems are up and running.  Responsibilities  • Perform on-site and remote help desk to find and solve technical problems.  • Determine company needs and creating IT solutions to meet them.  • Train staff from a range of departments to use new/upgraded IT solutions.  • Identify and troubleshoot problems with business software, hardware, and networking systems.  • Managed user accounts.  • Install and configure new hardware and software as recommended.  • Administer all managed systems with O365 and Microsoft Azure AD.  • Manage SharePoint and Exchange with office 365.  • Support the day-to-day operations of computer network to ensure network systems keep communications and information flowing smoothly.  • Create and implement security awareness training to all end users.  • Perform system hardening for safe work environment to all systems users.  • Perform asset inventories and provide central asset management with P9.  • Design and implement security controls and firewalls to prevent cyberattacks and protect computer systems and networks.  Achievement  Managed and provided technical support for an enterprise environment of 250+ computers of both local and remote that significantly reduce the systems downtime rate from 14% to 2%. Jr. System Administrator Concept Solutions Incorporated - Bowie, MD January 2017 to April 2019 Concept Solutions Incorporated maintains and migrates database of retail marketing solutions that positively influence an end-user's experience. Their goal is to deliver finite results which facilitate business improvement. My role was to establish cloud environment for data migrations from on-premises to the AWS cloud.  Responsibilities  • Migrated Virtual Machines from on-premise to AWS cloud and launched EC2 instances using the exported images stored on S3.  • Configured virtual environment, built virtual machines using VMware ESXi  • Created and configured AMI for components running in EC2 instances.  • Hardened virtual machines. Leveraged security policies, Security Groups, and NACL.  • Managed user accounts with AWS identity access management.  • Provided technical support to end-users.  • Provided System performance tuning.  • Managed computers, software, licenses inventories with GLPI.  • Answered technical queries and assisted users.  • Documented the incident reports, system installation, and configuration.  Achievement  Migrated key servers, data, applications and business components from on-premise infrastructure to the cloud leveraging AWS resources, which resulted in a 50% reduction of physical servers, lower infrastructure costs, increase business agility, and modernize the current IT asset base. Jr. Systems Administrator 9-Solutions Incorporated - Largo, MD January 2015 to December 2016 9-Solutions Incorporated delivers quality, innovative and affordable ICT solutions for corporate, individuals and government agencies to facilitate their business processes by providing highly scalable IT solutions and services. They design infrastructures that allow businesses to grow with agility and stability. Their goal is to predict changing needs and intercept issues. My role was to manage and provide first and second level technical support for both enterprise server environment of 200+ servers and local and remote employees.  Responsibilities  • Assisted users and troubleshoot any reported problems.  • Monitored servers, services, and resources metrics against threshold limit with Nagios.  • Responded to work orders on OSTicket ticketing system for trouble ticket.  • Applied operating system updates, patches, and configuration changes.  • Documented incident reports for outages and requested for system maintenance.  • Collaborated with team with Confluence, Documented system configurations.  • Managed user accounts.  • Installed and configured new hardware and software.  • Installed and configured LAMP servers.  • Performed system hardening.  Achievement  Managed and provided technical support for an enterprise server environment of 200+ servers of both local and remote that significantly reduce the systems downtime rate from 14% to 3%. Freelance Web Designer 9-Solutions Incorporated - Largo, MD December 2013 to December 2014 • Provided dynamic and functional web designs from scratch with modern markups (HTML5) and CSS3.  • Managed the web portal via Linux cPanel and Windows Plesk.  • Performed routine updates, upgrades and overall maintenance of websites.  • Repaired links that do not work or pictures that are not appearing properly.  • Identified and addressed interoperability requirements.  • Installed and configured LAMP server to host websites onsite. Education M.S. Information Technology in Information Assurance University of Maryland University College September 2017 to December 2019 B.S. in Physics Adekunle Ajasin University September 2001 to December 2006 Skills Technical support, Nagios, Scripting, Linux, Storage management, Snort, Bash, Systems security, Intrusion detection, Intrusion detection systems, Problem solving, Documenting Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/lanreothniel http://lanreothniel.com/ Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Solutions Architect – Associate. May 2018 to May 2021 Additional Information Skills  • Data and Virtual Machines migration to the cloud to cut infrastructure costs.  • Installing Linux/Windows Servers and Desktop computers.  • Linux and Windows servers and services monitoring with Nagios.  • Providing quick assistance.  • Computer systems security, installing Snort intrusion detection systems.  • Problem solving, technical support, and troubleshooting network related issues.  • Bash scripting to automate routine tasks to save work time.  • Storage management.  • Team collaboration and communication with team viewer, Panorama9 (P9), Confluence, and MS Teams.  • Documenting incident reports for production outages and security threats events.