Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Land Home Financial Services Concord, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Land Home Financial Services October 2017 to Present -Responsible for call routing, auto-attendants, hunt groups, fax numbers and direct numbers for over 700 employees and 100 branches throughout the United States  -Work with external customers and internal employees to resolve technical issues, order and service equipment  -Trained employees in new phone system individually and through live webinars of over 100 people  -Experience with Active Directory using custom attributes  -Design call flow documents in Microsoft Visio and make recommendations for optimal call routing  -Experience with XML configuration files  -Experience administering call flows using Office 365, Skype for Business, Clarity Connect and TelePacific  -Experience with Zoom conferencing  -Experience administering fax numbers using RingCentral and Efax Corporate  -Configure and ship phones and headsets for all employees  -Experience with Polycom VVX series and Trio Conference phones Percussion player Contra Costa Wind Symphony September 2010 to September 2019 Contra Costa Wind Symphony  -Play in an 80-person wind symphony based in Walnut Creek, California  -Was section leader for 2012-2013 season  -Approximately a dozen performances each year Systems Support Land Home Financial Services - Concord, CA March 2016 to October 2017 -Provision computers, phones and equipment for all new and existing employees.  -Administer Microsoft Active Directory domain and 365 software for over 700 employees.  -Administer CoreLogic accounts and software  -Configure and maintain remote monitoring software for Windows and Apple devices.  -Technical support for staff over the phone and in person.  -Responsible for packing and shipping IT equipment to various branches located throughout the US.  -Experience using Zendesk and Desk.com support ticketing systems.  -Land Home Employee of the Month October 2016 NOC Engineer NetXperts, Inc August 2014 to March 2016 -First point of contact for customers, vendors and staff  -Monitored and troubleshooted networks of customers to ensure smooth performance and quick response to issues.  -Internal and external tech support for networks, local workstations and phones  -Hands-on experience using Cisco equipment, in particular using Cisco Unified Call Manager, Cisco Unity and Cisco TelePresence Suite  -Helped to assemble bids (RFPs, RFQs, etc.) for potential customers.  -Helped build and maintain company website.  -Knowledge of IP, packet switching, routing and voice.  -Able to troubleshoot over the phone.  -Experience utilizing Autotask, a support ticket system.  -Experience utilizing Solarwinds and Cisco PRIME network monitoring systems. Education Bachelor of Arts in Government in Government California State University September 2005 to December 2009 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Networking, Polycom, Voip, Html, Xml, Power bi, Excel, Microsoft office, Powerpoint, Word, Customer service, Telephone, Bi, Training, System Administrator, System Admin Additional Information 5 years of experience with Help Desk and VoIP  -Background in Windows Active Directory, Office 365 and IT Administration/Support  -Tested and deployed new Skype-based Polycom phone system and trained over 700 employees in its use  -Tested and deployed Samanage and Desk.com ticketing systems for IT  -Experience with multiple ticketing systems and remote software such as Teamviewer  -Bachelor of Arts in Government, Minors in Communications and Music from California State University, Sacramento  -CCNA Voice, Routing and Switching, and CCENT certifications (exp. 7/18)    Technical Skills: Microsoft Office Suite (Word, Excel, Powerpoint, Skype for Business etc.), Power BI, Active Directory, OSX, Cisco, Polycom, VoIP (CUCM, Office 365), Windows, Networking, Cable Making (telephone, CAT5e), HTML, XML, Zoom  Soft Skills: Versatile, Customer Service, Training, Ingenuity, Creativity, Reliable, Adaptable, Quick Learner, Works Well Individually