Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Belgium, WI Active TS//SCI with SSBI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator U.S. Marine Corps September 2013 to September 2018 • Managed personnel within department which ensured the timely completion of all tasks and assignments.  • Managed a database of over two thousand items which ensured that all transfers, destructions, and inductions were correctly annotated.  • Ensured that all destructions were done in accordance with NSA guidelines.  • Oversaw the transfer of over two thousand classified items which produced a smooth transition for all department's field operations.  • Selected above my coworkers as the manager of the organization's classified material which led to one hundred percent reconciliation of all classified materials every month.  • Assigned as shift leader in the network operations center resulting in efficient inventory management and weekly turnover. Education Certificate in Software Development devCodeCamp - Milwaukee, WI February 2019 to May 2019 Business Administration degree in Finance Park University March 2016 to December 2018 Skills Javascript, MySQL, ASP Military Service Branch: Marine Corps Service Country: United States Rank: Sergeant September 2013 to September 2018 Additional Information Skills    Software: (proficient): C#, ASP.NET, HTML, CSS, JS, SQL, APIs, Python, Entity Framework, Object-Oriented Programming    Currently learning to implement Python Data Science libraries as well as Machine Learning Algorithms    Software Projects    Fitness Tracker  Currently developing an application that allows users to log their workouts, supplements taken, food eaten, and current weight.   Using Python libraries, the program will graph your progress through different metrics such as weight gained or lost and weight lifting increase.  Utilizes: Python, Flask, Jinja, HTML, CSS, Pandas, Matplotlib, Flask SQLAlchemy    AllergenAssistant  Developed an application that allows users to log their meals and reactions to those meals.  Using the logged meals and reactions, the program will determine whether or not you might have an allergy to an allergen located within that meal.  Utilizing a food database API, the program can detect what common allergens are located in the meal and alert users.  Uses a self-made API to store known allergens in restaurant food that users can retrieve and log when using the application.  The project is currently available to view at allergenassistant.com.  Utilizes: ASP.NET MVC, Entity Framework, JS, AngularJS, SQL, RESTful APIs, HTML, CSS