Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Junior Technical Writer Chantilly, VA Energetic professional with 5 years of experience in customer service, technical support, and written communications. Strategic writer, talented in creating informative, persuasive and intuitive literature to engage technical and non-technical audiences. Skilled illustrator and web designer, talented in creating awe-inspiring graphics with valuable original insights to complement textual communications. Experienced communicator with effective consulting skills to give advice and direction on adapting to new processes and ideas with articulated facts and clarification. Work Experience Systems Administrator U.S. Army - Fort Belvoir, VA November 2017 to Present Serving as an associate administrator for the U.S. Army Network Enterprise Center, focusing on system support and documentation.  ? Created and presented a modern agency logo for new branding revitalization initiative by government personnel to represent the new image of the enterprise systems division.  ? Updated an existing work instruction to reflect new backup procedures and requirements of the newly-implented Veritas NetBackup systems in the data domain.  ? Developed and instituted a new software deployment process utilizing swim-lanes to adequately describe duties of all 3 branches of our enterprise services.  ? Outlined and engineered a comprehensive data center elevation chart that mirrored the configuration of rack appliances and their connections.  ? Developed and published additional SOPs describing standard service procedures, such as network printer installation, managing VMWare systems, and Windows imaging support. Systems Administrator Apex Systems, Leidos - Fort Belvoir, VA February 2016 to November 2017 Served as an associate practicing in a wide array of projects, focusing on Windows 10 integration, testing, documentation, and operational improvements.  ? Engineered an extensive documentation library with efficient folder structure and instituted standardized processes for long-term maintenance.  ? Proofread incoming documentation written by technical staff and consulted with each of them on grammar, use of graphics, trabulation, and overall logic.  ? Developed presentations for major technical briefings with management and staff that inspired more camaraderie among each team member to serve customers effectively.  ? Developed weekly detailed spreadsheets for our 24/7 customer and consulted on the best solutions to secure their workstations.  ? Constructed formal one-paragraph announcements briefly describing NIST/DoD publications to IT staff using Word and Acrobat; published via SharePoint.  ? Supplied a formal written manual to IT technicians for MATLAB software installation and configuration after consulting COAs with SharePoint engineers and desktop managers. Associate Systems Administrator CSRA, Inc - Arlington, VA March 2015 to January 2016 Served as a junior associate for a large DoD program in developing a "Big Data" Linux-based analytic and processing cloud platform while providing integration support for system maturity.  ? Produced and presented the very first set of adopted end-user test plans that marked the precedent of application component testing.  ? Drafted and submitted a comprehensive Redhat manual consisting of basic and common commands used in our project for our knowledge management initiative.  ? Reported security scan results to technical management staff and completed remediation tasks that propelled testing and development.  ? Successfully hardened the core operating system, database, and web server software in time for the official pre-production kick-off with the client. I.T. Helpdesk Specialist Carahsoft Technology Corp - Reston, VA November 2014 to January 2015 Served as a desktop specialist within the I.T. department providing on-site technical services to company employees, specifically in asset tracking, security, networking, email, and account management.  ? Handled multiple customer tickets while providing assistance over the phone and in person.  ? Performed on-site maintenance on common desktop issues such as RAM upgrades, GPU replacements, printer maintenance, and troubleshooting peripherals.  ? Coordinated hardware replacements with vendors such as Dell, HP and Cisco while tracking warranties for replacing equipment.  ? Provided user account services while creating written instructions for management, such as account creation, permissions, and password resets.  ? Tracked and reported current assets being used throughout the office such as loaner laptops, desktops, telephones, printers, and facsimiles. Education Bachelor's in Telecommunications Management Penn State - University Park, PA August 2009 to May 2014 Skills Branding (1 year), Visio (7 years), Documentation. (4 years), HTML 5 and CSS 3 (3 years), Publisher (4 years), Photoshop (6 years), Indesign (3 years), Proofreading (2 years), Presentation Design (4 years), Presenting and Instructing (3 years), Process Development (1 year) Links https://w2studios.wixsite.com/welcome Awards Division Chief's Award for Excellence 2018-10 This award was earned with unanimous approval from the Chiefs of Staff for my creative workmanship and achievement in creating a new logo for the Enterprise Systems Division.