Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Tri-Creek School Corporation Lowell, IN Seeking a full-time position in the field of Information Technology to continue to increase my knowledge in the field. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Tri-Creek School Corporation January 2018 to Present • Provide technical support to students and staff in a 1:1 mobile device environment.  • Manage users and computers in Microsoft Active Directory.  • Responsible for inspection, repair and maintenance of Apple hardware devices (MacBooks, iPads, Apple TVs).  • Utilize Asset Panda asset tracking software to track and maintain an up-to-date inventory of technology department equipment.  • Distribute software applications to district users utilizing Filewave MDM software.  • Assist the Director of Technology with any other district projects. Technical Support Specialist Peotone CUSD July 2017 to January 2018 • Provide helpdesk level support to staff and students in the district.  • Record and keep an updated inventory of all technology department equipment.  • Manage users and computers in a Microsoft Active Directory.  • Troubleshoot, repair or replace hardware when necessary.  • Manage antivirus application installations and updates on district devices.  • Assist the System Administrator with any projects going on in the district. Cabling Technician All Information Services May 2017 to June 2017 • Installing new network cable drops at locations designated by the client.  • Testing, toning, terminating and labeling cables inside of the networking closets/server rooms.  • Mounting and installing new wireless access points in areas designated by the client. Education Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering Technology Purdue University May 2016 Skills DHCP (1 year), DNS (1 year), OSPF (Less than 1 year), NETWORKING (1 year), System Administrator, Active Directory (2 years), System Admin Additional Information Technical Skills    • Knowledgeable of networking protocols and concepts (DHCP, DNS, RIP, OSPF).  • Strong written and oral communication skills.