Systems Administrator I <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> I Systems Administrator Omaha, NE Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator I HDR Inc - Omaha, NE November 2016 to Present • Currently I’m involved in Planning, designing, installing, configuring, patching, maintaining, supporting and optimizing all on-premise Exchange related hardware & software.  • Responsible for assisting with the care, maintenance, enhancement and support of the email and messaging environment including Office 365  • Assist in Planning, designing, installing, configuring, patching, maintaining, supporting and optimizing all on-premise Exchange related hardware & software.  • Perform migration duties for our and acquired companies, bringing all email into a single comprehensive online Microsoft Tenant.  • Provide support for our Exchange Online Tenant including migration from our on-premise environment to the cloud environment.  • Assist/Coordinate with messaging projects, software upgrades, architecture changes and implementation of new components within the environment.  • Create and maintain the Exchange Architectural/technical documentation including server build documentation and related inter-networking diagrams  • Developing custom PowerShell scripts for automation, redundant task, reporting, monitoring, etc.  • Resolve Tier-2 and Tier-3 tickets related to messaging and collaboration systems.  • Maintain the development, test and production environments.  • Added several domains to Office 365 Portal.  • Migrated on premise mail server accounts such as Microsoft Exchange 2016 to Office 365 cloud portal  • Synchronization of on-premise active directory identities with office 365 directory using dir sync importing existing domain in to office 365.  • Configured Mail Flow rules in Office 365  • Configured inbound and outbound connectors in Office 365 to on-premise exchange 2016  • Configured Microsoft Team in Office 365  • Configured Sharepoint and One Drive in Office 365  • Setup Security and Compliance portal and added ATP Policies.   • Configured single sign on using ADFS for users to access cloud base applications and on-premise applications using on premise user and password only one time.  • Manage over 190 Domain Controllers, Over 10,000 users objects, More than 40,000 user groups.   •  Assist in creating and maintaining the Exchange technical documentation including server build documentation  • Assist with technical training and guides and mentors less experienced staff.  • Developing custom PowerShell scripts for automation, redundant task, reporting, monitoring, etc.  • Troubleshoot Messaging issues, working in collaboration with other relevant IT areas and vendor support towards a quick and effective resolution.  • Excellent at PowerShell scripting for administration, automation of processes, and issue resolution.  • Demonstrated expertise of Active Directory & GPOs  • Experienced with perimeter SMTP appliances such as Microsoft ATP.  • Experienced with Email Archiving EAS Archive/ E-discovery solutions  • Setup/ Managed and maintained Group ID Group Automation software.  • LYNC/Skype For Business 2013, Microsoft Teams Console, Reports Systems Administrator STRATEGICHEALTHSOLUTIONS, LLC - Omaha, NE March 2014 to October 2016 • Developed and implemented complex Intranet application for on-boarding procedures.  • Windows Server 2008, 2012 – built, configured, installed, On premise HP Servers  • Maintained servers by performing Windows Updates, Created a WSUS Server  • Built, Configured, installed Virtual Servers Windows 2008R2, Server 2012 in VMWare.  • Monitored and maintained Windows Servers including but not limited to Exchange, Active Directory, SharePoint 2010, 2013, SQL Server 2008R2, SQL Server 2014  • Configured DNS Installation, Load Balance with Round Robin, Setting up Zone Properties, DNS Forwarding  • Configured Routing and Remote Access in Server 2012RT  • Maintain FSMO Roles and Responsibilities  • Setup and Maintained company Group Policy per OU structure.  • Setup and Maintained Active Directory Users and Computers environment.  • Migrated Exchange 2007 to Office 365 Environment  • Office365 Exchange Management Portal, Setup Resources, Mailbox Permission, Rooms, Distribution Groups, Security Groups, Reports  • LYNC/Skype For Business 2013 Console, Reports  • Established compatibility with third party software products by developing program for modification and integration.  • Ensured network, system and data availability and integrity through preventative maintenance and upgrades.  • Provided documentation on start-up, shut down and first level troubleshooting of processes to help desk staff.  • Designed SharePoint master page and page layouts, serving as company's backup SharePoint Admin support.  • Identified and corrected performance issues.  • Netwrix Change Management System.  • Ensured proper installation of cables, operating systems and software for end users.  • Created and maintained SQL 2008, SQL 2014 databases, network accounts and programs for specific department needs.  • VmWare VCenter 5.0, 5.5, and 6.0 Setup Data Stores, Virtual Servers and maintained the Virtual machines  Created templates, Cloned Virtual Machines for faster rebuild process for new machines  • Administered Active Directory Users and Computers, Group Policy  • Implemented new services into production such as TeamViewer, Office 2013, ESET Endpoint Protection.  • Ensured proper release and maintenance of all systems. Systems Administrator ENTERPRISE MANUFACTURING - Saint Joseph, MO January 2013 to March 2014 • Windows Server 2003, Windows Server 2008 – built, configured, installed, On Premise Dell Servers  • Led communication with management regarding product goals and progress made.  • Maintained and monitored the server room.  • Installed System Software (ESET, Office 2010, VPN, RealVNC, and more).  • Windows Server 2003, 2008, 2012 (Manage multiple servers).  • Maintained Active Directory Sites and Services  • Created Sites, Subnets, Routing   • Configured Replication Intrasite and Intersite  • Configured an RODC Server  • Restructured File Management Systems by Converting to NTFS File/Folder Permissions  • Upgraded Forest functional level from Windows 2003 to Server 2012R2  • Implemented Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS)  • Setup Audit Policy using GPO  • Configured High Availability (HA) foundation, Network Load balancing, Failover Cluster using Active Directory Advanced Features  • Setup DNS, DHCP, Print Services,   • Configured DHCP using Super scopes, Multicast scopes  • Configured DNS Logging  • Managed Group Policy procedures.  • Deployed Microsoft Software via Group Policy   • Setup Software Restriction Policy using App Locker in Group Policy  • Deployed Windows Systems Updates (WSUS). Systems Administrator / Store Manager MM Finance - Saint Joseph, MO January 2009 to July 2012 • Identify, analyze, troubleshoot and resolve client technical service requests. This includes   • Patch / Repair PC hardware and operating systems  • Software application installation, configuration, and upgrades.  • Provide assistance on usability and functionality of software and hardware  • Software patches and updates and new installations.  • Identify, analyze, troubleshoot and resolve network connectivity and configuration issues including routers, switches, workstations  • Worked at Multiple locations  • Responsible for the center operations   • Provide customer service according to clients’ needs  • Collects and records fees charged for check-cashing service.  • Responsible for collections  • Provide excellent customer service on a daily basis  • Created database for different application by using SQL, Microsoft Access etc Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Science Bellevue University - Bellevue, NE 2016 to 2018 Associate of Applied Science in Computer Information Science Metro Community College - Omaha, NE 2014 to 2016 Associate of Applied Science in Electronic Media Studies Iowa Western Community College - Council Bluffs, IA 2006 to 2008 Skills Active Directory (7 years), Group Policy (7 years), Vmware (3 years), MS Exchange Online (4 years), Powershell (7 years), WSUS (2 years), Exchange 2013 / office365 (6 years), Maintain FSMO Roles and Responsibilities (5 years), LYNC/Skype For Business 2013 Console, Reports (3 years), Fortigate Firewall (1 year), Iwatsu PBX /Voicemail System (3 years), Service Desk, Help Desk, Helpdesk Support, Tech Support, Desktop Support, System Administrator, System Admin Certifications/Licenses Sharepoint October 2015 to Present Groups Spiceworks March 2012 to Present A place to gain knowledge, ask questions and upload ideas for other IT Pros.