Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Functional Data Manager - National Security Agency Hephzibah, GA Self-driven Information Technician professional with over three years of experience and expertise in trouble shooting and resolving computer network and technical issues. Currently holds a TOP SECRET/SCI clearance with SBI and polygraph. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator National Security Agency - Fort Gordon, GA February 2016 to Present - Manage internal and external distribution lists and security groups across multiple networks to ensure they meet agency standards while providing education to Functional Data Owners (FDO) on proper procedures. Instructed 12 classes for a total of 24 hours and trained 240 FDOs  • Ticket Queue Manager - Led 12 administrators by determining highest priority of trouble tickets to ensure proper assistance is offered at a timely manner. Restored email communications to an off-site facility that had a reoccurring problem.  • Vital member of a new system for assigning new accounts to on-boarding users. Rather than three teams assigning all basic accounts off site, this new process allows for two local admins to assign all accounts in an interactive portal to save cost and time.  • Sole provider of system updates on a remote network for 6 agency leaders, ensuring reliable and secured connection is maintained from any location to continue real-time operations. Assisted in the configuration of the workstation's media and hardware.  • System Administrator - Responsible for the patching of 26 servers including Windows Service Update Services (WSUS) content and MacAfee Antivirus updates. Managed user and admin accounts by tracking log on attempts, sessions, and failed connections to troubleshoot. Built two images utilizing VSphere. Monitor network traffic using Citrix Director. Education BA in History in History University of North Carolina at Pembroke - Pembroke, NC August 2009 to May 2014 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CITRIX, DATABASE, IMAGING, WINDOWS 10, WINDOWS 7, MICROSOFT OFFICE, DATABASE MANAGEMENT, Vmware, System Administrator, Linux Military Service Branch: Navy Service Country: United States Rank: E5 January 2016 to Present Information Technician with United States Navy with experience working T1 Help-desk and T3 System Administration Certifications/Licenses Security+ December 2018 to December 2021 A+ Certified December 2018 to December 2021 Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/gbxajkj34b-xjti Data Analysis — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fxncsncd1xogi9j Management & Leadership Skills: Planning & Execution — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to effectively plan and manage resources to accomplish organizational goals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/cgmgsmvm9w0t1utb Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.