Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> I am looking to acquire a System Administrator positon to continue to expand my knowledge base. Virginia Beach, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Alion Science and Technology - Norfolk, VA February 2019 to Present Systems Administrator Cambridge International Systems Inc - Norfolk, VA January 2018 to February 2019 In my current position, I am working on an engineering team that is developing, implementing and managing the system solutions for Military Sealift Command networks. My primary roles within this team are to conduct ACAS security scans followed by patching, completing STIGs, building and deploying system images, building out servers with various roles and to generate techinical documentation for the field technicians to recreate the systems we designed. Additional task I participate with includes planning out the upcoming projects and writing the necessary technical documents. I worked with RHEL, Windows Server 2012 R2, Windows Server 2008, Windows Server 2016 and virtualized through Hyper-V. System Administrator SAIC, INC (Zolon Technology) - Hampton, VA July 2017 to December 2017 Built, manage and operate a NASA Windows and Linux sandbox lab environment used to develop and test the flight and air traffic control simulation software. I verify system reliability and software function before the software packages are sent to the production lab for research runs. My additional duties include completing routine maintenance and monitoring the health of the Windows Server 2012 racks in the NASA data center. IT Support Haynes Furniture Company - Virginia Beach, VA June 2017 to August 2017 Managed Windows and Unix systems in a break-fix environment with multiple remote sites. The service tickets would range from account creations/modifications to site network outages. I presented plans for the company to move to a Single Sign-On model using Azure and Office 365 resulting in a savings of approximately $3/month per user in a company of 3000 employees. IT Support Specialist Constellis - Moyock, NC July 2015 to May 2017 Worked in a unclassified break/fix environment with over 10,000 users on various military installations world-wide. My primary function was building, deploying, and monitoring the stability of the Windows 10 Enterprise corporate image deployed through System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM). Using SCCM, I also deployed software packages that were built in Dell Kace AppDeploy Repackager.  My additional duties were the following:  -Inventory Management through Sunflower Systems Enterprise Management  -Creating and managing email accounts in Microsoft Exchange 2013 via the GUI and powershell.  -Active Directory creation and modification of objects via the GUI and powershell.  -Troubleshooting Cisco switches   -Configuring and managing the Ubiquiti indoor and outdoor wifi access points.  -Managing various server backups and tape rentention. Education Information Systems Liberty University - Lynchburg, VA Skills Windows Server 2012 R2 (2 years), SCCM (2 years), Active Directory (3 years), Windows 10 (2 years), Windows 7 (4 years), Windows Server 2008 (2 years), Mobile Devices (3 years), Group Policy (2 years), Imaging & Deployments (3 years), System Admin, Linux, System Administrator, Red Hat, Linux, Linux Administrator, Red Hat, System Administrator, System Admin Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/quenci-derique-washington-527930a3 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ ce December 2020 Linux+ August 2019 to Present Additional Information Specialized Training Completed  CompTIA Linux+  Windows Server 2012 R2    Skills  Software & OS Deployment   Group Policy Management  Technical Writing  Vulnerability Scanning  System Patching  Scripting: Powershell  Mobile Device Management  Exchange Active Sync  Exchange Management  Active Directory Management