Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Boston Water and Sewer Commission Boston, MA Work Experience Systems Administrator Boston Water and Sewer Commission - Boston, MA 2014 to Present Key Accomplishments:  ? Significantly impacted the organization by the converting a 90% bare metal data center to a virtualized VMware ESXI vSAN cluster which allowed the business to scale up and scale out the server environment as needed, and additionally move away from supporting standalone aging hardware.  ? Greatly improved and reduced the manual creation of new user accounts for the Help Desk staff by implementing ManageEngine's ADManager Plus software.  ? Implemented Varonis's DatVantage product which reduced security risks and gave the organization better visibility and insights of access to critical data. Systems Administrator C Space - Boston, MA 2013 to 2014 • Deployed JAMF Casper Suite to manage the MAC environment, which allowed for central management of the machines and policy and allowed the machines to join a Windows Active Directory domain.  • Managing backups of production servers and databases using EMC Networker and Zmanda.  • Maintaining patches for workstations with System Center Configuration Manager.  • Monitoring uptime of all production systems using Nagios. Desktop Support C Space - Boston, MA 2011 to 2013 Key Accomplishments:  • Implemented ManageEngine's ADSelfService password reset software tool which allowed for employees to manage passwords and unlock accounts without needing to contact the help desk.  • Implemented device encryption policy using Lumension Endpoint Security that allowed the organization better oversight into potential data exfiltration attempts, and to prevent sensitive company data from unauthorized access. Network Specialist Boston Help Desk - Boston, MA March 2008 to May 2011 Responsible for day-to-day help desk and network operations including ticket prioritization, tracking, and timely resolution, as well as technical support to the numerous clients contracted for support and internal employees Education None University of Massachusetts Boston - Boston, MA September 2001 to June 2005 Skills Vmware, Active Directory, System Administrator, Linux (2 years), AWS (Less than 1 year), Git (Less than 1 year), Ansible (Less than 1 year), Vagrant (Less than 1 year)