Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Catholic Charities of Chicago Chicago, IL Work Experience Systems Administrator Catholic Charities of Chicago - Chicago, IL September 2009 to Present Provide onsite and remote support to over 2000 users in the Chicago land area  ? Provide Windows administration, network operating center administration, LAN/WAN/VPN administration, VMware administration  ? Manage all servers, including FTP, AD/DNS/DHCP, load balancers, domain controllers, e-mail, database, storage, print, and backup servers and their associated operating systems and software  ? Created and implemented Disaster Recovery Program using VMware's Site Recovery Manager  ? Assisted in the migration of moving all of the VM's from Hitachi San to CISCO HyperFlex  ? Led in the planning and implementation of VMware upgrade from 5.5 to 6.7  ? Led in the planning and implementation of Windows Server 2016 DC's upgrade from Windows Server 2008 R2  ? Led in the planning, completion and implementation of the Exchange 2016 upgrade from Exchange 2010  ? Installed, configured, and maintained the Mobile Iron Servers for centralized administration, control of wireless email, security, and deployment  ? Manage security solutions including anti-virus, and intrusion detection systems & administer all equipment, hardware and software upgrades Consultant, Field Technician SECURE TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS - Chicago, IL February 2005 to September 2009 Led technical operations for Radiant Counterpoint applications across 15 clients within the Illinois region.  ? Scheduled and updated systems including on-site training for application use to support business objectives.  ? Provided ancillary network infrastructure support for 50% of client base. Presented client demos for inventory devices along with point of sale software.  ? Planed network design and infrastructure improvements in the following areas: telecommunications, WAN and LAN Network Administrator, IS Department ROBERT MORRIS UNIVERSITY - Chicago, IL February 1997 to February 2005 Spearheaded completion of two major migrations to bring systems up to date including Windows NT 4.0 to Windows 2003. Maintained Novell Netware 6.5 server environment.  ? Ensured stable operations of in-house computer network managing 10 technicians supporting 3,000 students, faculty and administrations. Performed daily back-up of all servers.  ? Planned and optimized all network hardware, software and communication links. Supported local area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN) for seven campuses.  ? Resolved end user hardware and software computer problems and provided end user training when required. Performed email account creation along and tracked license use.  ? Monitored network to ensure availability to all system users and performed necessary maintenance (telecommunications, WAN/LAN, computer processing, application/web development, voice/data network, technology support).  ? Implemented security network security measures and translated business requirements into system requirements, designs and solutions.  ? Improved performance 100% by upgrading Novell Netware 3 server to Netware 6.5 server. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration ROBERT MORRIS UNIVERSITY - Chicago, IL May 2000 Skills Active directory, Catalyst, Cisco, Citrix, Dhcp, Netware, Remote access, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vmware, Vpn, Xenapp, Xendesktop, Dns, Exchange, Firewalls, Networking, Security, Wireless, Ethernet, System Administrator, System Admin Additional Information Dedicated Systems Administrator Specialist with over 20 years of experience delivering support and technical operations for network infrastructure. Keen ability to diagnose high-end technology equipment and applications and provide efficient resolutions. Adept in LAN/WAN network administration across multiple platforms. Skilled problem solver who bridges the gap between technology and customer service. Fluent in Spanish.    TECHNICAL SKILLS    NETWORK INFRASTRUCTURE: TCP/IP, Active Directory Configuration, Wireless Networking, CISCO Catalyst 3500, CISCO Routers, Patch Panels, Virtual Networks, CITRIX Farms, Firewalls, Point-to-Point VPN, Ethernet, DNS, DHCP Configuration    HARDWARE: HP, Dell, IBM and CISCO Severs, laser printers, ink jet printers, RAID controllers, tape back-up, PDA devices, SonicWall firewalls, Barracuda appliances, point of sale peripherals, Dell OptiPlex, Dell Latitude, Lenovo    SANS: Hitachi HUS/AMS, CISCO HyperPlex, Dell PowerVault    Applications: Office 365 Administration, Exchange 2010 and 2016, CITRIX XenApp/XenDesktop 7.x, Dell Data Security, ServicePRO ticketing system, Desktop Authority, ManageEngine ADAudit Plus and ADManager Plus, BOMGAR Remote Access, Sophos Endpoint and Sophos SafeGuard, Commvault Backup and Recovery    ENVIRONMENTS: Windows 7 Professional and Enterprise, Windows 10 Pro, Windows Server 2008, Windows Sever 2012, Windows Server 2016, Microsoft HyperV, VMWare 5.x and 6.7, Novell Netware 6.5, Basic knowledge of Novell SuSe Linux Enterprise