Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Flagstaff, AZ Work Experience Systems Administrator Northern Arizona University - Flagstaff, AZ June 2010 to May 2017 Arizona  Participates in the planning, installation and implementation of equipment interfaces and peripheral devices. Ensures the security and integrity of all systems and data. Manages physical environment including power consumption, battery backup and temperature. Implements system backup procedures and participates in recovery operations in the event of destruction  of all or part of the operating system or other system components. Maintains high level of reliability, availability, system  security and integrity for all library servers. Skillfully installs and configures Windows Server. Skillfully integrates/configures and maintains new software and hardware. Working with vendors to maintain, troubleshoot, and debug/repair server  hardware, operating systems and applications. Understanding and addressing the needs of end users.  • Systems Administration (Primary)  • VMware ESXi, Horizon View, vSphere, vSAN, Dell/EMC, planning design and deployment: migrated  servers and services to 100% virtualized infrastructure, developed and deployed a full virtual desktop  solution for all public and service point computing  • Physical/Virtual Network planning, design, redundancy/failover and management  • Cluster based resource tiers: design and manage differing performance based tiers of storage and resource allocations for services and applications - internal and external  • Datacenter design, management, migration, expansion, metrics based planning and scale-out  • Disaster Recovery - offsite/on-site hosting/data-centers, backups/snapshots, power and cooling  management, testing Network & Systems Administrator Cornell University - New York, NY July 2004 to June 2010 Directly supports Facilities Services (FS) and Risk Management and Public Safety (RMPS) employees by providing technical  guidance and computing support in the use and selection of appropriate information technologies, applications, and networking. Responsible for diagnosing, responding, and solving problems with hardware, software, and peripheral devices  using sophisticated troubleshooting skills. Actively working both independently and collaboratively to provide administration and support in order to identify, prioritize, and resolve problems with servers, desktop software and hardware systems.  • Systems Administration (Primary) - Microsoft Server 2003/2008, Active Directory Domain  • VMWare ESX administration, DEV/TEST, deployment  • NetApp, HP Blade servers, and Dell PowerEdge infrastructure  • ThinClient Terminal Services administration  • Web Server and database application support, SQL/Oracle environments, web applications  • SharePoint Administration - WSS 2.0, WSS 3.0, MOSS 2007, site migration, upgrade solutions, SQL  database customization for large scale environments  • Network Administration - DHCP, DNS, VLANS, Cisco firewalls, topology and disaster planning  • Disaster Recovery - offsite datacenter and power management design/testing Education Electrical Engineering Rochester Institute of Technology May 1999 Skills Vmware, Active Directory, System Admin, System Administrator, Linux Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/john-michael-ciccone Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (MCSE) + Security Present Microsoft Certified Systems Administrator (MCSA) + Security Present