Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Stillwater, MN Work Experience Systems Administrator Saputo Cheese - Montréal, QC November 2017 to April 2019 Contracted to implement VMware.  • Re-designed Active Directory & optimized remote site access  • Upgraded Server 2003 to 2008 & 2012 R2, then virtualized  • Upgraded VMware v5.1 to 5.5  • Migrated all applications from 2008 & 2012 R2 servers to SAN  • Created two wiring closets with Cisco layer 3 Switches. Contract System Administrator & Consultant Resolve IT Consulting December 2007 to April 2019 Managed Services Provider Enterprise System Administrator Wireless Networks (Wi-Fi) December 2015 to October 2017 Contracted to major Health Care provider to virtualize 3,500 servers and applications and move to new Data Center    • Extensive VMware experience ESXi , vSphere, ,vCenter Server, P2V, vMotion  • Knowledgeable of SAN & NAS storage technologies  • Ethernet, Wireless Networks (Wi-Fi), TCP/IP, DHCP, DNS  • Experience with Windows Server OS 2003, 2008 R2 & 2012 R2, Exchange and SQL  • Citrix XenApps and XenDesktop, VDI design, utilizing both thin and "Fat" clients Worked with NetScaler load balancing.  • Managed Active Directory, creating OU's and applying Group Policy Maintained DNS.  • Defined, recommended and met Service Level Agreements (SLA) for support  • Knowledgeable of VLAN and VPN setups, IP protocols, firewalls, switches and routers. General knowledge of F5 load balancing  • Proactively monitored servers, WSUS patching and troubleshooting issues  • Created Powershell scripts to automate repetitious tasks  • Upgrade MS Server OS to minimum standards - MS Server 2008 R2  • Maintaining backups and recovery. Such as Avamar, Backup Exec.  • Excellent diagnostic and troubleshooting skills, Solar Winds monitoring.  • Strong Team Building and Project Management skills System Administrator ResolveIT Consulting Inc October 2007 to October 2015 Performed a wide variety of outsourced IT services for clients. This provided me with a very diverse business skillset. Hands on experience with Microsoft Server Operating Systems 2003 thru 2012 R2, Exchange, SQL & IIS, VMware, Hyper-V, to Citrix to name a few.    • Functioned as IT Manager to smaller companies  ? Designed and built entire Windows networks  ? Proactively maintained, monitored and performed backups  ? Configured Switches, routers and firewalls  ? Maintained antivirus protection & security monitoring    • Functioned as a Systems Administrator to mid-sized clients for over 5 years  ? Trouble shooting unstable servers  ? Developed & implemented change control  ? Managed their VMware virtual environment.  ? P2V servers - converted Physical to Virtual  ? Server Clustering for HA and Load Balancing  ? Participated in Disaster Recovery planning  ? Developed detailed server build sheets to achieve consistency  ? Wrote various Powershell scripts to automate repetitious tasks  ? Built solid client/vendor relationships    • Functioned as a Sr. Systems Administrator, Project Manager, & IT Business Analyst to Enterprise Clients. Most notable were Medical College of Wisconsin, Children's Hospital and The Eye Institute.    ? Team lead on the Citrix portion of the EPIC implementation\  ? Lead on Enterprise project to standardize desktops on Windows 7  ? Designed large scale Active Directory structure, with proper OU's  ? Applied Group Policy to secure the Active Directory  ? Participated in the planning of a new Data Center  ? Acting as a IT/Business Liaison I utilized ITIL to follow Best Practices and align IT direction to achieve the business goals.    Please refer to synopsis of major projects for more detail    PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE - continued Enterprise Network Administrator Froedtert Memorial Lutheran Hospital May 2003 to September 2007 Responsible for designing and successfully implementing a Citrix MetaFrame XPe environment.    ? Created and maintained a 300 server Citrix Server Farm.    ? Identified difficult applications and created "silos" to allow proper operation.    ? Created Citrix Secure Gateway to allow secure remote access to the hospital's applications.    ? Assisted developing disaster recovery contingencies following best practices. Performing and verifying server backups. Specified and implemented data center UPS and air conditioning systems. This lead to the building of an entirely new data center.    ? Member of the EPIC implementation team, responsible for conversion to a paperless patient information environment. Network Administrator & JD Edwards ERP Administrator Generac Portable Products, LLC October 2000 to May 2003 Contracted by manufacturer of gas-powered generators and pressure washers to implement J.D. Edwards ERP system, requiring the construction of a highly scalable, fault-tolerant WAN in a very narrow timeframe. . Completed project 2 months ahead of schedule.    ? Acted as JDE One World Administrator creating environments, building and deploying packages within the client/server environment.    ? Transformed a single-server departmental LAN into corporate WAN of 3 AS/400, 15 HP servers and 5 T1 links while maintaining complete system availability.    ? Created Citrix server farm for dial-in thin clients accessing the J.D. Edwards ERP system, facilitating the early cutover to the new ERP system. Managed multiple projects with ever changing timelines. Implemented Help Desk software to document and manage the new environment    ? Developed and conducted on-going training programs to address education needs of staff as well as end-users.    ? Instrumental in securing an Internet Point of Presence (POP) on-site, thus enabling the company to develop their e-commerce directives. Education BS in Computer Science University of Wisconsin Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, CLUSTERING, DNS (10+ years), EXCHANGE (6 years), System Administrator, Vmware (8 years), System Admin Additional Information Areas of Expertise Years  HP, Dell & IBM servers - Configuring, Maintaining & Upgrading 16+  Storage -Netapp SANs, iSCSI, FC & Replication 5  VMware ESXi, vCenter Server, vMotion, vSphere, Hyper-V 8  Windows Server OS Administration - 2008R2, 2012R2, 2016 16+  LAN/WAN Infrastructure TCP/IP 16  Active Directory, Group Policy, OU's, DNS, DHCP 12+  Office 365, Exchange and SQL familiarity 4  Server Clustering and Network Load Balancing, Performance tuning 8  Citrix XenDesktop, XenApps, XenServer 6.x/7.x, VDI, Studio, 7  Familiar with Cisco Switches, Routers & Wireless APs and Firewalls 8  Disaster Recovery, Security, Backup & Restore, Deduplication 10  Installing software, Patching, Monitoring network 12  Security monitoring, Intrusion detection, PKI 10  Excellent Team-building & Project Management skills 8  Tenacious troubleshooter, proactive system monitoring 12+    RESUME  Jim Kaster  (920) 489-0491  jkaster@gmail.com