Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Huntsville, AL Over 17 years of computer/network experience in IT working on TS, Secret and  Unclassified networks for USASOC and JSOC. Strong knowledge of system installation, configuration and maintenance. Work Experience Systems Administrator I3 - Huntsville, AL January 2019 to Present Supporting MDMS gateways and DOTS domain servers  • Manage 15 MDMS gateways  • Apply patches and ensure McAfee is updating  • Manage user access  • Manage DTTS domain controllers ensure replication between servers  • Ensure computers and users are in proper OU create OUs and assign GPOs  • Build servers and run SCAP and ACAS scans to ensure compliance  • Assist IA with updating and deploying HBSS  • Run backups with Arcserve UDP/Backup  • Manage VMware and storage Systems Administrator Jacobs - Fort Campbell, KY April 2018 to January 2019 Supporting 5th (SFG) ESX servers and numerous 2012R2virtual servers.  • Receive scan results from Enterprise ACAS ensure all critical and high incidents are resolved in a timely manner  • Ensure that all patches are applied and reboot servers when required or monthly  • Build and configure servers when required  • Manage print servers and add printers to print release  • Assist desktop techs by adding clients to active directory and place in the proper OU L-3 Systems Administrator April 2005 to April 2018 Systems Administrator supporting five 5th SFG TACLAN (Tactical Local Area Network)  suites.  • Create cut sheet with naming convention, IP scheme, Administrator User name and password and server OS version  • Load Vcenter server on control laptop  • Configure switch with server, client, voice and storage vlans  • Download router configuration and load router  • Made changes to router configuration creating gateway on inside interface and adding sub-interfaces, add routing statements and configure outside interface to connect to SDN router  • Connect network cables  • Configure NETAPP storage adding disks to controllers and IPs to management interfaces  • Connect with /VMware web client configure LUNS and volumes  • Create data store and upload server IOS  • Add VMs and install server 2012R2 2 domain controllers SCCM, ACAS, BU, Print and on SIPRNET add a WAVE server  • Create change request in Remedy for enterprise data center to configure DCs, SCCM and ACAS servers    Ft Bragg, NC  Administrator working in the USASOC NOC (Network Operations Center).  • Duties include monitoring both classified and unclassified networks and resolving network issues in a timely manner  • Responsible for updating and patching windows 2003  • Perform account maintenance by adding, deleting, moving or modifying accounts in active directory  • Monitor network backups using the veritas admin console.  • Ensure that all anti-virus dats and engines for Symantec and McAfee are updated  • Record all work in Remedy.  L-3 Balad Iraq  Forward deployed to Iraq for 1 year as Systems Administrator for the CJSOTF-AP  (Combined Joint Special Operations Task Force-Arabian Peninsula)  • Duties included configuration management responsible for testing and approving all new software andpatches before introducing them to the network.  • Worked with the J-6 in planning for equipment upgrades and future expansion of the classified and unclassified networks  • Implemented CAC (common access card) log on for the unclassified network  • Responsible for the upgrade and configuration of Veritas Backup Exec form v.10.0 to v.11d  • Managed the exchange 2003 servers to include creating, and deleting mailboxes, establishing quotas for mailboxes and creating smtp connectors.  • Managed all file and print servers.  • Built and configured the WSUS server.  • Established the group policy for the WSUS management.  • Managed the cisco call manager subscriber and publisher servers. Configured and updated cisco switches and VOIP phones Administrator for JWICS/SOCRATES Titan Corp - Fort Bragg, NC October 2004 to April 2005 network responsible for imaging, updating and maintaining the servers, workstations and EIWs both locally and for remote sites.  • Responsible for backups of all server system states, databases and netshares on classified  and unclassified networks.  • Manage print servers. Build servers on Windows 2003 and  2003 Enterprise Server platform. Document build on server build sheets.  • Migrate user accounts. Configure RAID arrays. Provide PC/LAN support and administration.  • Assisted in the migration of Windows NT servers to Windows 2003. Install, configure, troubleshoot, backup, and maintain PC/LAN hardware and software. Create user and  email accounts applying updates and patches, hardware and software troubleshooting. Jr Network Engineer Titan Corp - Fort Bragg, NC March 2004 to September 2004 Responsible for HQ, Special Operations Command, Fort Bragg, NC local area network  (LAN) and wide area network (WAN) link between our site and remote locations.  Providing maintenance and administration of all network devices, routers and switches.  • Assist in the maintenance/creation of documentation regarding the network infrastructure  • Duties included updating CRYPTO  • Timely response to customer work orders received via Remedy ticketing system  • Assisting technicians with hands-on trouble-shooting.  • configuration Performs changes on Cisco switching products to support the migration team/ field technicians.  • Install configurations on new switches and changed blades in Cisco 6513 I System Administrator Central Iraq Titan Corp August 2003 to February 2004 Voluntarily deployed to Iraq for six months to support on going contingency operations.  Provided 24 hour technical support for Special Operations units Tactical Local Area  Network (TACLAN).  • Maintained daily the following unit servers NT4.0: Web, File, Exchange 5.5 and PDC& BDC. Provide desktop support to end users, created /deleted  user accounts for various servers.  • Performs weekly backups of our file and Exchange servers.  • Configure switches and router for VOIP phones and special applications. Helpdesk Technician BTG - Fort Bragg, NC April 2001 to July 2003 Help Desk Technician for USASOC (United States Army Special Operations Command) and JSOC (Joint Special Operations Command).  • Assisted users with troubleshooting of software and hardware problems. Load programs on site and remotely.  • Setup user email and map home directories.  • Configure laptops for RAS. Enter all work and trouble tickets in Remedy. Installation Specialist Groupware International Fayetteville NC - Fayetteville, NC 2000 to 2001 Responsible for the installation of cable modems, network cards and cable.  • Inspected computers to insure minimum requirements were met for installation of software and available IRQ for network interface card.  • Tested cable connection. Set up user e-mail accounts. 18C SR Special Forces Engineer Sgt 3rd SFG (A) - Fort Bragg, NC 1979 to 2001 Responsible for all engineering tasks to include training of team members CONUS as well as indigenous personnel while deployed.  • Acted as team S-4 maintained all team equipment hand receipts, ordered supplies and responsible for scheduled inventories.  62B U.S. Army Engineers,  • Supervised four squad leaders and approximately 28 other personnel.  • Responsible for scheduling the maintenance of all company vehicles to include daily, weekly, monthly and quarterly maintenance.  • Recommended the PLL(Prescribed Load Listing) to be stocked for each vehicle.  • Maintained the budget for the company motor pool.  • Ensured all maintenance records and reports were up to date and accurate.  • Signed for and accountable for over one million dollars of equipment. Education Bachelor of Science Psychology Nova Southeastern University Ft. Lauderdale - Fort Lauderdale, FL 1997 Skills System Administrator, Active Directory, Vmware, System Admin Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: E-7 Certifications/Licenses Valid Drivers License