Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Austin, TX Over eighteen years of experience working in the  environment of System Administration, System  Operations, Training, Managing external & internal  desktop support, scheduling and performing OS  upgrades within the following industries:  Communications, financial services, retail,  healthcare, manufacturing, aerospace, and  government.  Over 7 years of experience in local government  software administration and 3 years of Health I.T.  administration. Possession of strong team  interpersonal skills, superior organizational skills and  high ethical standards, strong technical knowledge  and ability to educate others are just a few key  factors in differentiating from others, while making  me an excellent, outstanding candidate for the  position.  Diversified experience covering development,  implementation, and troubleshooting of hardware  and software components along with maintenance  of backup systems, and configuring servers. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator North State Radiology - Chico, CA March 2019 to June 2019 Assisted with installation, configuration and support for all business and clinical  applications and systems.  Install and configure software and hardware  Manage network servers and technology tools  Set up accounts and workstations  Monitor performance and maintain systems according to requirements  Troubleshoot issues and outages  Ensure security through access controls, backups and firewalls  Upgrade systems with new releases and models  Develop expertise to train staff on new technologies  Perform preventative maintenance on all company equipment.  Serve as technical contact for any company audiovisual needs.  Assemble and repair company workstations.  Strong problem-solving and troubleshooting skills.  Knowledgeable in Windows server and client operating systems.  Knowledgeable in Backup Systems.  Knowledgeable in networked printers, scanners, and other peripherals.  Knowledgeable in MS Office 365 suite.  Knowledgeable in TCP/IP, DHCP, DNS and SNMP services/protocols. Desktop Support Lead Lulus.com - Chico, CA July 2018 to March 2019 Chico, CA  Maintain data security/continuity (virus protection, backup, restore, etc.).  Maintain system builds.  Troubleshoot and maintain Label and Multifunction Printers.  Prep and deploy computers into production environment.  Manage the helpdesk team.  Provide VOIP support.  Maintain inventory of all equipment, software and software licenses.  Maintain LAN equipment.  Performs other related duties as assigned.  Triage all incoming support requests and delegate tasks to Tier 1 support.  Serve as Tier 2 support and escalation point for Helpdesk Team. I.T. Consultant Precision Business Associates Inc - Chico, CA July 2017 to July 2018 Maintains Project and client management.  Network implementations, migrations and upgrades (Servers, workstations, networking, security).  Maintain, modify and update client application programs.  Completes all documentation as needed.  Follows defined processes, methodologies and procedures.  Windows server operating systems (2008, 2012, and 2016).  Operating systems, including, Windows 7 and Windows 10.  Networking technologies (TCP/IP, DNS, etc.) Internet and firewall technologies.  Windows Active Directory.  Windows Group Policy Management.  Windows Exchange Server.  Microsoft Hyper-V environments.  Backup Management.  Updates integrated systems; designs and implements enhancements and revised  functions; develops various integrated solutions for database functions; documents  system changes. Information Systems Analyst Butte County Public Health - Oroville, CA September 2014 to July 2017 Analyzes Local and Wide Area Network (LAN/WAN) and database functionality, protocols, peripherals and security; identifies, locates and resolves problems;  evaluates trends and anticipates problems.  Assures functionality, compatibility and stability of assigned systems; monitors  resources, updates and upgrades the software and operating system, and resolves  downtime and connectivity issues.  Maintains and updates Department internet site; creates web pages, and develops basic intranet and internet upgrades and solutions; analyzes website use and recommends solutions.  Installs, upgrades and configures network devices such as routers, terminal servers and switches.  Performs system backups and monitors computer environment as directed.  Evaluates new hardware, software and related equipment to identify  modifications and enhancements for assigned systems.  Performs network trouble-shooting to isolate and diagnose system problems.  Monitors and resolves network stability and connectivity problems, including  network administration.  Administers user accounts, security, e-mail, file shares, permissions and policies on the network.  Complies with all County equipment and safety policies and procedures, and Occupational Health and Safety Administration (OSHA) rules and regulations. Systems Administrator Services Department - Chico, CA July 2013 to September 2014 CA  Responsible for client software installations and upgrades for the Professional  Services Department.  Performs hardware migration, data refreshers and system administrator training.  Following detailed procedures to install and configure software for client  environments.  The software is both UNIX based application code and Windows based  applications, interfacing with enterprise-class database systems.  Good working knowledge of the following: Informix, Oracle and/or SQL Server  databases.  Standard Operations proficiency on HP-UX and/or AIX platforms.  Configured database connections and maintenance plans.  Demonstrated ability to recognize and troubleshoot technical issues related to the install process.  Ability to manage time and tasks efficiently while interfacing and coordinating  activities with other departments within a company.  Also responsible for installing IBM Cognos Software and also Installing and configuring Windows 2003, 2008, and 2012 servers. Network Specialist Lake Mary, FL September 2007 to July 2013 Troubleshoot technical problem calls and inquiries on a broad variety of systems  and applications including, but not limited to: MS Office Suite Applications, MS  Outlook/Exchange, Windows 2000/XP/7, networking, TCP/IP, and WEB  connectivity.  Follow up on unresolved problems, return message and e-mails; follow procedures and processes to escalate issues as needed to provide accurate solutions.  Create and maintain Footprints call tracking tool with detailed records of all calls,  actions and resolutions methods.  Identify and document recurring problems and advocate for global solutions to reduce overall departmental call volume.  Flexibility with shift changes and after hours support requirements. Education H.S. Diploma Winter Park High School - Winter Park, FL May 1999 Skills Cisco, Exchange, Nagios, Networking, Remedy, Solarwinds, Virtualization, Cognos, Juniper, Vmware, Vmware server, Database, Informix, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Sql, Hyper-v server, Microsoft hyper-v server, Hyper-v, System Admin, Linux, System Administrator, Active Directory Groups Austin Digital Jobs June 2019 to Present Additional Information Skills  Operating Systems: (Windows XP, 7, 10) (macOS - 10.12 Sierra (Fuji) 10.13 High Sierra (Lobo) 10.14  Mojave (Liberty), Linux (Ubuntu, CentOS, Fedora, Debian), (IBM iSeries, AIX, AS/400)  Email Systems: Microsoft Exchange, Microsoft Office 365, and Google G-Suite  OS Imaging Utilities: WDS, SCCM, Norton Ghost, FOG, Clonezilla  Database Platforms: Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle Database, IBM Informix Database  Virtualization: Microsoft Hyper-V Server, VMWare Server, Oracle VirtualBox  VOIP Technologies: Cisco, Avaya, Toshiba IP Edge, 8x8, Polycom  Web Video Conference Utilities: Skype for Business, Google Hangouts, Cisco WebEx,  GoToMeeting, Zoom  Chat Messaging Platforms: HipChat, Slack, Microsoft Teams, Skype for Business, Google  Hangouts, Cisco Webex Teams  Remote Utilities: GoToMyPC, TeamViewer, REALVNC, ConnectWise Control, LogMeIn GoToAssist  Reporting & Analytics: SAP Crystal Reports, Looker, IBM Cognos Analytics, Adobe Analytics,  Google Analytics 360  Ticket Systems: Spiceworks, ConnectWise, JIRA, Remedy Service Management, Zendesk  Networking Technologies: Cisco Meraki, Brocade Communications, Juniper Networks, Ubiquiti,  HPE, Dell systems  Backup Solutions: Datto, DELL EMC, StorageCraft, VERITAS, IBM  Server Management & Monitoring: Nagios, SolarWinds, OpenNMS. Spiceworks  EHR Software: eClinicalWorks, Allscripts, Practice Fusion, MicroMD, EPIC  Photo & Video Editing Utilities: Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Lightroom, GIMP, Apple iMovie, Apple  Final Cut Pro X, Adobe Premiere Pro