Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Fort Pierce, FL Results-driven system administrator with 18 years of experience, seeking to use proven problem-solving skills to improve cost and performance. Saved $780,000K a year at State of Florida with centralized Content Management System. Created user training site that slashed trouble tickets by 16%. Known for teamwork, accountability and integrity having demonstrated excellence in planning, managing, and supporting programs and projects. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator City of Fort Pierce 2017 to 2018 Acting as technical lead while identifying and implementing solutions to problems affecting IT  services. Provided 3rd tier support to city and city enterprise staff members.    Duties:  Installation and maintenance of all systems within local governments digital environment.  Producing documentation on operational, system and user procedures & guidelines.  Building, configuration and troubleshooting of server and desktop hardware.  Providing advice on selection and purchase of IT equipment.  Maintaining maximum availability of supported services for users.  Obtaining quotes for supply of goods and services from suppliers.  Designing, implementing and managing Active Directory.  Monitoring the progress of third party maintenance contract suppliers.  Ensuring that support calls are logged and handled effectively and efficiently.  Inventory asset management  Responsible for disaster recovery, closing security loopholes and access levels.  Ensure adequate antivirus protection & solutions are maintained and updated.  Identify and recommending improvements for business and system processes as well as hardware. Technology Support Engineer Thomas University 2014 to 2017 Serve as lead Systems Engineer implementing, managing and supporting all aspects of an enterprise network and systems / applications suite including architecture research and design, new implementations and migrations, daily management and support, security, training and documentation, backup and disaster recovery.  Manage technology projects including all new hardware and software implementations. Research emerging technologies, trends, and best practices to identify potential enhancements to our business practices. Assist Faculty and Staff with identifying system and applications requirements for use cases, business processes and hardware / software being considered. Provide advice and make recommendations to Division and Department heads on the testing, implementation, and documentation of technology to meet University needs as well as federal and state regulations and accreditation compliance.  Manage a Windows 2012 Active Directory environment including accounts, rights, and privileges, as well as supporting any AD-integrated systems and applications (SOA, Cloud, etc.), and Windows and Apple desktop and mobile clients. Identify, coordinate and implement upgrades, updates and patches as necessary using Windows System Update Server services.  Manage system, application and network security posture through the use of software and hardware monitoring tools in a continuous improvement model. Tools used include Palo Alto hardware appliance and network monitoring software, firewalls, UTM Switches and Cisco VLAN configurations. Manage and maintain antivirus and malware detection and removal using vendor based monitoring tools.  Manage multi-vendor wireless communication assets that attach to the network, including cell phones, iOS and Android devices and applications. Manage telephony environment, including VoIP, digital, and analog phones.  Maintain all hardware, including installation, configuration and upgrade of all Projection systems, SMART Board, SHARP Smart Systems, Lectern based touch screen systems, CISCO Switches, ESI VOIP system and classroom emergency response system with beacon notification and AlertUs desktop campus wide notification system. Legacy PBX phone system as well as Windows 2012 Servers and all Workstations and Laptops.  Identify trends in support incidents and implement solutions to improve customer satisfaction. Manage and maintain a KAYAKO ticketing system to verify a proper and timely response to incidents and incident documentation. Provide prompt top-tier support for all issues presented to Help Desk and document accordingly  Update and maintain our MDT Image deployment, Application Library and Workstation Driver system alongside our implementation of MS System Center Configuration Manager 2012. Systems Analyst III State of Florida 2005 to 2014 Maintain up-to-date documentation of system architecture, network configuration and IT practices. Develop technical literature for the purposes of documentation and training of faculty, staff and students. Provide hands on training to faculty, staff and students.  Systems Analyst III | State of Florida  2005 2014  Managed, researched, designed, developed, integrated, implemented and supported IT solutions, systems, software and hardware for the Florida Department of Children and Families Central Region. The scope of my team project leadership involvement spanned from endpoint Microsoft Windows workstation desktop support (including peripherals) to Windows 2008 Server (including Hyper-V virtualization and Cisco Switched networks), and includes all layers from development environment to enterprise solutions including time and resource management, representing a deep and broad past performance. Solutions deployed during my tenure significantly helped improve end user experience evaluated via independent surveys.  Managed technology projects including all new hardware and software implementations. Researched emerging technologies, trends, and best practices to identify potential enhancements to business practices. Provided advice and make recommendations to executive level managers on the testing, implementation, and documentation of technology to meet business needs and meet or exceed federal and state regulations compliance. Assisted staff with identifying use case, business process, and system requirements for systems and applications being considered.  Managed a Windows 2008 Active Directory environment including accounts, rights, and privileges. Manage and maintain network security, including servers, PCs, switches and firewalls.  Planned, designed and managed Linux Server and LAMP stack for hosting multiple Content Management Systems for Florida's largest government region.  Implemented, managed and maintained system, application and network security posture using Enterprise Monitoring tools in a continuous improvement model.  Managed multi-vendor wireless communications assets, including cell phones, Blackberry, iOS and Android devices and applications.  Identified trends in Help Desk incidents and implement solutions to improve user / customer satisfaction. Provided prompt top-tier support for all issues presented to Help Desk and document accordingly. Managed and maintained Help Desk ticketing system to verify proper and timely responses to incidents.  Maintained all hardware, including installation, configuration and upgrade of servers, networking components and computers. Identified, coordinated and implemented updates and patches as necessary.  Maintained up-to-date documentation of system architecture, network configuration and IT practices. Developed technical literature for the purposes of documentation and training. Provided training to clients.  Managed telephony environment, including VoIP, digital, and analog phones. Systems Analyst Treasure and Space Coast Radio March 2004 to May 2005 Contract consultant on 5 studio renovations, this included the radio studio's Windows 2K Workstations, Windows 2K Server and the installation of their Prophet Digital DJ software rack systems and all audio and Ethernet cabling and audio console systems from scratch due to hurricane damage. In addition I was asked to support their Microsoft infrastructure and repair at their HQ Facility, which included end user support in an Active Directory environment. Production and Project Manager Scenic Productions, Sightline Studios and Enter-Action Inc 1996 to 2001 Served as Project and or Production Manager for a total of five major turnkey projects for Universal Studios and MGM Disney Studios, including for such movies and theme park rides as "Twister, ride the movie". This included managing, designing and implementing major theme park rides from scratch, creation of in-production movie props and integrated technologies from embedded circuitry to project wide computer network communications. During my tenure projects managed by me included all facets of delivery such as project and team management, budget and financial management, hiring and firing, vendor and inventory management, IT systems and networks, Computer Aided Design, 2D and 3D graphic arts, 2D and 3D scenery, etc. Education Some college Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY (4 years), Mobile Communications (10+ years), VOIP (10+ years), System Administrator, Linux, System Admin, Vmware, Vmware, Linux, System Admin Awards Prudential Financial / Davis Productivity Award of Distinction - Merging Wireless and Mobile Technologies. 2009 Prudential Financial / Davis Productivity - State Abuse Photo Management System 2009 Prudential Financial / Davis Productivity Award 2009 - State Content Management 2009 Prudential Financial / Davis Productivity Award - Regional Content Management 2007 Prudential Financial / Davis Productivity Award, Award of Distinction - Carbon Reduction Team 2010 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ Present Additional Information SKILLS  Active Directory Management  Windows Server 2000 2016 Management  Windows Workstation 7 / Windows 10  Windows Deployment Services  MS Deployment Toolkit 2012 and 2013  Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager 2012  Office 2010 - 2016 and Office Configuration  Office 365  MS AZURE Cloud Services  LDAP for Active Directory  SNMP  Multi-Factor Authentication  Apple OSX Workstation Management  Linux Workstation  Novell Enterprise Linux Server Administration  iOS and Android Management  Active Directory Environments including Global Policy Management  Hyper-V Server Virtualization  NUTANIX Hyper Convergence  485 and RS232 Physical Access Control RFID  Arduino Hardware Platform  Physical Access Control  PHP, HTML Programming  JSON  SOAP  XML  API and Web Services  MySQL, Mariah, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MS SQL Database Management  .NET Framework  MS Office  MS Project  MS Visio  GeoFencing  Cisco Meraki  Wifi  Bluetooth  Radius / OpenRadius  FTP / SFTP  VPN  Jet Brains PHP Storm  NaviCat MySQL  Adobe Dream Weaver  Adobe Acrobat Professional  Fireworks  Adobe Photoshop  MHL HDMI Multiplex Video Protocol  NTSC Video  PAL Video  ESI and Avaya VOIP endpoint systems  TCIP  WPA v1 TKIP and EAP  WPA v2 TKIP and EAP  ETL (Extract, Transform, Load)  ODBC Credentials