Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Goodin, MacBride, Squeri & Day, LLP San Francisco Bay Area, CA Efficient professional with 15+ years of experience managing, planning and deploying complex IT infrastructure projects in on-premise, hybrid, and cloud-only environments. Proven knowledge of network administration, server provisioning, configuration, and management, and software and SaaS configuration and daily operation.  Proficient Python and Bash programmer with experience writing custom automation scripts.  5+ years of experience migrating and running workloads on Amazon Web Services. Extensive experience with AWS VPC, EC2, Lambda functions, Route53, RDS, DynamoDB, CloudWatch, Step Functions, SNS, and S3. Considerable familiarity with Athena, Elasticsearch, and CodeCommit. Long time user of Github and familiarity with Google Cloud services. Experience defining event buses to model internal business processes. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Goodin, MacBride, Squeri & Day, LLP January 2010 to Present managing local, private cloud, and VPN networks and related computing environments including computer hardware, systems software, applications software, and all configurations on an on-going basis.  Successfully planned and implemented major upgrades to infrastructure, including Citrix XenDesktop upgrades, design and development of base virtual desktop images, design and development of linux based Citrix thin-clients, re-organization of data space among NAS, SAN and cloud spaces.  Successfully planned and migrated several workloads to AWS cloud services, including databases to AWS RDS and DynamoDB, backup and disaster recovery solutions to AWS S3 and off-site storage involving products like Veeam Backup and Recovery, AWS Lambda functions and in-house custom scripts that I wrote.  Plan, coordinate, and implement network security measures to protect data, software, and hardware. Manage Cisco and Fortinet firewalls, AWS VPC, internet gateways, route53 DNS, VPNs, and compliance logging with AWS CloudTrail.  Monitor network, services, and applications performance to optimize operations. Extensive use of AWS CloudWatch. Tested and implemented monitoring solutions with Elasticsearch and Splunk.    Research new technologies by attending seminars, reading trade articles, or taking classes, and implement or recommend the implementation of new technologies.  Technology Stack  Operating Systems: Windows Server 2003 to Windows Server 2019, Windows XP to Windows 10, macOS,  various flavors of linux, FreeBSD, ChromeOS, Cisco IOS  Languages: Javascript, Python, PowerShell, Bash, HTML, ASP, PHP  Databases: MS SQL Server, mySQL, MS Access, AWS DynamoDB, AWS RDS  Business software: Microsoft Exchange, Active Directory, Mimecast, Google Apps, various APIs  Management tools: Veeam Backup, Backup Exec, Metiix, Splunk, Active Directory Group Policy NETWORK FIELD ENGINEER UPS - San Francisco Bay Area, CA January 2004 to January 2010 Participated in network technology upgrade or expansion projects, including installation of hardware and software and integration testing. Troubleshooting and repair of network equipment, including routers, switches, and wireless access points.  Data center work including hardware upgrades of in-rack servers and network equipment, power sources and UPS, recabling, and installation of new rack servers.  Coordinated and performed scheduled off-lining of equipment for maintenance work and planned stepped power-ups after maintenance work. Verified all systems were back online and end users had access and functionality restored.  Inventory and inspection of remote field equipment for major technology vendors, including AT&T, Verizon, Ripple TV, and Comcast, among others.  Develop and write procedures for installation, use, or troubleshooting of communications hardware or software. Develop network-related documentation.  Technology Stack  Operating Systems: Windows Server 2003 to Windows Server 2019, linux, FreeBSD, Cisco IOS  Tools: Nessus, nmap SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Producciones Bermejo Web Agency - Los Angeles, CA January 1999 to January 2004 Manage internet infrastructure, including components such as web servers, FTP sites, mail servers, and DNS records.  Collaborate with web developers to create and operate internal and external web sites. Collaborate with development teams to discuss, analyze, or resolve usability issues. Test backup or recovery plans regularly and resolve any problems.  Monitor web developments through continuing education, reading, or participation in professional conferences, workshops, or groups.  Implement updates, upgrades, and patches in a timely manner to limit loss of service. Identify or document backup or recovery plans.  Install or configure web server software or hardware to ensure that the directory structure is well-defined, logical, and secure.  Develop web site performance metrics. Track, compile, and analyze web site usage data.  Document installation or configuration procedures to allow maintenance and repetition. Identify, standardize, and communicate levels of access and security.  Recommend web site improvements, and develop budgets to support recommendations. Inform website users of problems, problem resolutions or application changes and updates. Document application and web site changes or change procedures.  Determine sources of web page or server problems, and take action to correct such problems.  Monitor systems for intrusions or denial of service attacks, and report security breaches to appropriate personnel. Implement web site security measures, such as firewalls or message encryption.  Technology Stack  Operating Systems: Linux, Unix (FreeBSD)  Languages: Javascript, HTML, CSS, ASP, PHP, bash  Databases: mySQL  Server Software: Apache, QMail SYSTEMS ENGINEER Aero California - Los Cabos, MEX - Los Angeles, CA January 1996 to January 1999 I built and maintained the airline's first website, and then moved it along from an informational website to a web application that allowed the public to communicate directly with Aero California's customer service agents.  Technology Stack  Languages: Javascript, HTML, CSS, ASP, PHP, bash  Databases: mySQL  Server Software: Apache, QMail Education None in Completed coursework towards B.S. Marine Biology University of California Santa Cruz / Universidad Autonoma de Baja California Sur - Santa Cruz, CA 1991 Skills Active Directory, Linux Administrator, System Admin, Vmware, System Administrator, Linux, Redhat, Red Hat Links https://linkedin.com/in/druiz1 https://github.com/danrix