Systems Administrator (Contractor) <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (Contractor) Systems Administrator Booz Allen Hamilton Biloxi, MS Work Experience Systems Administrator (Contractor) Booz Allen Hamilton - Biloxi, MS December 2018 to Present Conducts installs, debugging and integrates software programs with COTS/GOTS applications and support equipment.  • Develops timelines and instructions for integration projects.  • Performs diagnostic testing and system troubleshooting on LAN equipment and microcomputer systems.  • May repair, replace, install and provide maintenance of LAN, LAN related, and microcomputer components.  • Maintains hardware/software performance as required.  • Performs server and workstation connection, configuration, integration, and testing.  • Schedules and performs preventive maintenance on all hardware systems as outlined in OEM specifications and maintains maintenance log of all repairs and replacements required.  • Upgrades system components as required.  • Exercises independent judgment and decision making to ensure problem ownership, and resolution, and promotes end-user satisfaction. Systems Administrator CSC CSC August 2012 to December 2018 • Conducts installs, debugging and integrates software programs with COTS/GOTS applications and support equipment.  • Develops timelines and instructions for integration projects.  • Performs diagnostic testing and system troubleshooting on LAN equipment and microcomputer systems.  • May repair, replace, install and provide maintenance of LAN, LAN related, and microcomputer components.  • Maintains hardware/software performance as required.  • Performs server and workstation connection, configuration, integration, and testing.  • Schedules and performs preventive maintenance on all hardware systems as outlined in OEM specifications and maintains maintenance log of all repairs and replacements required.  • Upgrades system components as required.  • Exercises independent judgment and decision making to ensure problem ownership, and resolution, and promotes end-user satisfaction. Systems Administrator (Contractor) GDIT / CSRA - Biloxi, MS January 2018 to November 2018 Conducts installs, debugging and integrates software programs with COTS/GOTS applications and support equipment.  • Develops timelines and instructions for integration projects.  • Performs diagnostic testing and system troubleshooting on LAN equipment and microcomputer systems.  • May repair, replace, install and provide maintenance of LAN, LAN related, and microcomputer components.  • Maintains hardware/software performance as required.  • Performs server and workstation connection, configuration, integration, and testing.  • Schedules and performs preventive maintenance on all hardware systems as outlined in OEM specifications and maintains maintenance log of all repairs and replacements required.  • Upgrades system components as required.  • Exercises independent judgment and decision making to ensure problem ownership, and resolution, and promotes end-user satisfaction. Customer Service Analyst CSC Computer Science Corporation September 2002 to July 2012 • Provided microcomputer technical support for Navy Automated Electronic Classrooms (AEC) to include software, hardware, courseware and systems integration, Network Management/Administration and support for transition of training and inventory control.  • Responsible for the managerial and technical administration of the LAN to include; security, communications, software applications, printing services, file services, back up services and any other initial trouble shooting.  • Repaired and or replaced network hardware components.  • Performed component server and workstation connection, configuration, integration and testing.  • Performed Preventive maintenance for hardware and software such as equipment cleaning, cable connection Inspection, software virus protection, and configuration integrity.  • Monitored and controlled the performance, security and status of network resources; identifying and diagnosing problems and factors affecting network performance.  • Accomplished several Electronic Classroom projects including overall training enhancements by updating system programs and computer hardware to a more comprehensive level of overall system performance and speed.    LAN Manager with CSC from November 2001 to August 2002  • Responsible for the installation and maintenance of the CNET LAN including hardware/software fault isolation, diagnosis and repair, data communication configurations, LAN/WAN installation and configuration, software installation, maintenance and configurations, procurement of repair/upgrade components, providing end-user training and support, training/cross training other configuration management personnel.  • Installed and maintained the latest version of Norton Antivirus Corporate Edition Server.  • Effectively obtained over 99.5% virus protection and 0 virus infections.  • Installed patches and upgrades within 72 hours of notification, well ahead of instructed time frames.  • Significantly improved customer satisfaction.  • Provided training to clients that requested assistance with network configurations and operations. Active Duty Electronics Technician Retired U.S. Navy October 1981 to February 2002 in numerous locations around the world and onboard U.S. Navy ships from October 1981 to February 2002. Held various supervisory positions in the day to day operations of electronic equipment and IT systems. Retired U.S. Navy August 1981 to February 2002 Education High school or equivalent Skills Active Directory, Vmware, System Administrator, System Admin, It Specialist, Comptia, Information Technology, Help Desk, Desktop Support, Secret Clearance, Computer Repair, Network Support Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: ET1/E6 Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) October 2010 to Present Microsoft Certified Systems Administrator (MCSA) November 2010 to Present Security+ CE November 2017 to November 2020 Security+ July 2010 to Present Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate: Windows 10 Present Modern Desktop Administrator Associate July 2019 to Present Assessments Customer Service Skills — Highly Proficient November 2018 Measures a candidate's skill in evaluating approaches to customer service & satisfaction. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/26-yn-ai9vrlkl9b Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information • Over 20 years of progressive technical support/maintenance experience on ADP equipment.  • Intensive experience in analysis, support, configuration, and maintenance of LAN and microcomputer applications includes specific knowledge of the hardware/software systems in use by NETPDTC.  • Skills include Windows 95/98/NT/ME/2000/XP/7/10, Windows Server 2000/2003/2008, Microsoft Office 2000/2003/2007/2010/2016. VDI Integration and support including deployment of zero clients.  • Build, configure, and deploy systems in an enterprise environment. Apply knowledge of how these systems are provisioned and supported on a VMware virtual platform. Install and customize software and hardware based on site requirements. Conduct capacity planning, change control, enterprise monitoring, performance analysis, integration concepts, and tools in alignment with federal and DoD guidelines. Manage troubleshooting issues related to Active Directory topology and related features in a domain environment. Leverage knowledge of system administration practices and environments, including Windows Active Directory, system integration dependencies, and system security hardening methodologies. Leverage knowledge of networking concepts, including DNS, DHCP, the OSI model, and TCP/IP protocols and applications.  • Experience with administering Windows Server 2008 R2.  • Experience with Active Directory and Group Policy leveraging to maintain and control full DISA STIG requirements.  • Experience with helpdesk ITSM Trouble Ticket system.  • Experience with ACAS/NESSUS, HBSS, VRAM and ALTIRS patch deployment and policy management.  • Knowledge of Microsoft Active Directory and associated environments.  • Knowledge of infrastructure technologies commonly leveraged to support large-scale, multi-platform enterprise environments and distributed systems including Virtual Desktop Integration.  • Experience with data cabling and computer facilities maintenance.  • Ability to work in a highly collaborative environment with peers and senior government officials  • Active Secret clearance.  • Experience with storage technologies, including SAN, NAS, and virtual storage.  • Possession of excellent oral and written communication skills.  • Possession of excellent technical leadership and client-facing consulting skills.  • MCSA, CompTia Security+ce, DoD 8570 CSWF Certification.    CURRENT POSITION: Systems Administrator with GDIT/(former CSRA) from January 2018 to Present  • Conducts installs, debugging and integrates software programs with COTS/GOTS applications and support equipment.  • Develops timelines and instructions for integration projects.  • Performs diagnostic testing and system troubleshooting on LAN equipment and microcomputer systems.  • May repair, replace, install and provide maintenance of LAN, LAN related, and microcomputer components.  • Maintains hardware/software performance as required.  • Performs server and workstation connection, configuration, integration, and testing.  • Schedules and performs preventive maintenance on all hardware systems as outlined in OEM specifications and maintains maintenance log of all repairs and replacements required.  • Upgrades system components as required.  • Exercises independent judgment and decision making to ensure problem ownership, and resolution, and promotes end-user satisfaction.