Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Advocate Health Care Glenview, IL Dedicated, driven, analytical, purposeful and team oriented professional looking to expand my career expertise while applying both success as a problem solver and also as a solutions driver for IT services in Medical or Manufacturing and Pharmaceutical enterprises. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Advocate Health Care - Downers Grove, IL January 2015 to Present • Support 1000+ computers for a regional section of Advocate Medical Group.  • Setup, customize and implement systems for clinical and administrative staff.  • Prioritize and minimize by 40% daily tickets for incidents/requests of service thru customer/technical relationships.  • Maximize usability of systems thru training, revision and upgrades to nodes and sites to properly support patient care and administrative duties.  • Setup, maintain and support printers, label makers, phones, iOS devices and medical equipment to adhere to medical PHI and HIPPA standards.  • Review technical documentation to implement third party vendor software to support patients for various integrated systems for medical EMR and historical data.  • Troubleshoot and investigate different corporate software used for the clinical duties and maintenance of documentation for review post-install.  • Provide technical support level 3 and work with several technologies to assist other departments for implementations or resolutions to vital clinical staff technological needs. Systems Engineer KSys Group Inc - Skokie, IL November 2013 to April 2014 • Analyzed systems layout and structure for better solutions in terms of hardware/software and processes' stability, as well as, LAN/WAN devices and infrastructure throughput.  • Strategized projects for IT audits and services implementation involving DC server migrations, member servers' uptime and BMS system for data center.  • Installed and monitored Hyper-V server tools and management of VM Hosts, primarily Windows 2008 and 2012 server OS's.  • Supported clients with Windows XP, Windows 7 and testing migration to Windows 8 systems.  • Assisted with Tier 2 or special case resolution with Technical Support tickets.  • Consulted on Mobile devices to support manufacturing environments and logistics. IT Consultant NCSBN - Chicago, IL October 2013 to November 2013 • Assisted with daily Helpdesk administration duties and ticketing system and reduced ticket queue by 85% from previous standards.  • Provided full desktop support for clients with Windows XP, migrations to 7 and Windows 8 tablets.  • Consulted with end users on their applications, systems and deployment experience for future deployments with Windows 8 platform and peripheral integration.  • Deployed new equipment to clients and update inventories/stock. Client Services Analyst, Sr Actavis - Gurnee, IL July 2010 to September 2013 • Provided Tier 2 level technical support ranging from OS to Network environment issues.  • Analyzed and managed local DNS, DHCP, and A/D schema tree for the local supported environments reducing overhead from systems engineering groups.  • Managed all tickets incoming for site issues and other sites as needed.  • Supported distribution nodes and office computers/laptops with Windows XP and migration including post support for Windows 7 and Office applications.  • Tested setup and maintained OS images, apps and compatible third party software applications for various functions.  • Fully supported Windows Mobile devices for warehouse distribution systems.  • Worked with various teams to strategize and manage various projects supporting the distribution warehouse environment processes such as SAP workflow, printing, etc.  • Distributed and maintained new iOS devices and Blackberry devices for regional users.  • Setup, tested, monitored and maintained network infrastructure, telephony switching equipment and VOIP systems as needed.  • Planned and maintained Cisco networking equipment through the IOS environment, as well as, troubleshoot network issues from the WAN side to the LAN side as needed reducing downtime by 40%.  • Administered backup tape processes, storage and management.  • Analyzed, tested, setup and maintained various Zebra/Symbol technologies peripherals and integration with enterprise systems such as SAP and UNIX. Network Administrator Netronix Corporation - South Barrington, IL July 2006 to December 2009 • Supported Windows 2000/2003 Domain servers, web servers, production servers and member servers.  • Provided technical support for office and clients ranging from software to hardware through phone or visits.  • Setup Web encryption procedures for websites to prevent intrusions while complying with PCI requirements from different web merchants and encryption merchants.  • Increased systems usability onsite by setting up new and consulting for upcoming equipment for proper networking requirements reducing install downtime by 30%.  • Setup, tested and maintained networks for registrations at conferences and tradeshow.  • Analyzed/recommended and implemented a Raritan upgrade monitoring system for all 22 servers and services running to keep the uptime to the 3 9's.  • Increased IT future department training and functionality by documenting all procedures regarding onsite servers and setups, as well as, office environments and server environment structure. IT Technician Blachford, Inc - Chicago, IL October 2005 to July 2006 • Decreased peripheral and equipment roll-out time by 65% for factory and office personnel.  • Setup and maintained network servers (Gateway/Dell), maintain routers/switches (3Com/CISCO) and networking/telephony systems (Nortel Networks) to decrease errors, malfunctioning and cut costs for new equipment.  • Coordinated and was responsible for weekly back-up data tapes storage.  • Minimized and controlled IT old and new inventory by using an in-house system and decrease outdated and back-up equipment by 85%.  • Consulted IT personnel for system usability and future upgrades/updates to smooth out processes in manufacturing modules and engineering with new software improvements.  • Worked with suppliers of IT equipment to replace or add equipment to ease IT department overhead costs and future upgrades. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems DeVry University - Addison, IL February 2006 Skills IOS (6 years), WINDOWS XP (3 years), MOBILE DEVICES (3 years), WINDOWS 7 (3 years), EMR (3 years), System Administrator, Active Directory, Vmware, System Admin, Cisco Additional Information Technologies: MS Exchange Server 2007, MS Windows Server 2000/2003/2008/2012, MS Windows XP, Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 10, MS Windows Mobile 5/6, MS Windows CE, Apple iOS.    Applications: Altiris DS, MS IIS 5/6, MS Active Directory/DHCP/DNS, MS Hyper-V Manager, MS SQL Server, MS Terminal Services, MS Remote Desktop Connection, Service-Now Ticket System, TelnetCE Client    Software: Acronis Backup Software, Clinicare-Cerner EMR, Citrix software/s, Dell Data Protection Encryption, Diabetes management software, Landesk management, MS Office 2000-2013, MS SharePoint, McAfee Enterprise A/V, Nuance Dictation Software, Symantec Ghost, Symantec Endpoint A/V.    Hardware: Apple mobile devices, Business PC/Laptops, network switches, business Printers, Enterprise Servers, MDF-IDF equipment, Symbol Technologies, Zebra Equipment.    Other: Read, write and speak fluent Spanish.