Systems Administrator II <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Systems Administrator II - Technology Solutions Santa Fe, NM Work Experience Systems Administrator II Technology Solutions - Santa Fe, NM December 2018 to Present Contracted to Department of Homeland Security, tasked with supporting and upgrading virtual infrastructure, server hardware, network and peripherals. Provide subject matter expertise in VMWare and server based application projects and upgrade existing virtualization infrastructure to meet growing technology needs of DHS.  Key Projects and Achievements:  • Performed hitless upgrade of vSphere 5.5 to 6.0 while maintaining uptime of all critical business systems.  • Built secondary domain controller to provide redundancy for Active Directory services including DHCP, DNS, Group Policy.  • Created WDS infrastructure to support imaging of workstations and laptops.  • Supported end users daily operational needs, including: troubleshooting connectivity issues, software issues, hardware issues and replacements, etc. Systems Analyst Thornburg Investments - Santa Fe, NM May 2010 to July 2018 Drive optimal system performance and uptime through the implementation of new systems and applications, enhancements and upgrades to existing platforms, and deployment of virtualization technologies. Partner with senior managers to establish immediate and long-term goals; collaborate with technical colleagues to troubleshoot and resolve issues, devise process improvement strategies, and plan major technical projects. Manage vendor relations, establishing strong relationships to ensure timely response to service calls.  Key Projects and Achievements:  • Established development and test environments mirroring production systems for testing of critical patching, upgrades and troubleshooting of live issues. Performed system monitoring, performance tuning and optimization in order to ensure maximum system performance.  • Managed security groups, security accounts and user accounts ensuring security and access to privileged information systems.  • Resolved Jira incident tickets supporting dev, test and production data systems.  • Expanded VMWare technology (ESXi, VSphere, SRM) adoption within the organization from small test systems to enterprise production platform.  • Played a vital role in the planning and execution of technology roll outs, including Charles River, APX, Coviant, Electra, SalesLogix, Perform, Tableau, and SQL databases.  • Spearheaded the development of disaster recovery and data/media backup solutions, environments, procedures, and documentation across APX, Charles River, Confluence and other financial systems.  • Provided essential support during disaster response for an event impacting the APX application, rapidly restoring the entire production database to minimize downtime.  • Successfully managed multiple upgrades of Advent Portfolio, Charles River and Coviant Diplomat financial platforms. VMware Lab Manager Administrator Thornburg Mortgage, Inc - Santa Fe, NM April 2007 to March 2009 Promoted from Analyst to Administrator responsible for designing and overseeing virtual development and test environments while managing and maintaining Lab Manager system. Established Lab Manager procedures; created build documents and install scripts. Provided troubleshooting, debugging and monitoring of systems under the Lab Manager environment. Contributed to the development of a Stage environment within the Virtual Infrastructure system.  Key Projects and Achievements:  • Played an active role in the Server Virtualization Project, testing and analyzing physical servers to determine candidacy for P2V conversion and reallocation in Lab Manager system.  • Installed and configure network, FC storage and iSCSI storage for ESX environment.  • Installed and configured physical and virtual operating systems for both servers and workstations in development and production systems. Provided user support for test/dev staff working in both physical and virtual systems operating environments.  • Successfully directed a Lab Manager development environment; guiding staff efforts and providing hands-on support across hardware and software platforms.  • Rebuilt the hardware for the Lab Manager systems (including ESX installation on host servers and implementation of a Virtual Center) and upgraded ESX and Lab Manager versions. Installed new hardware and configured operating systems, backups, and supporting applications. IT SCM Analyst Thornburg Mortgage, Inc - Santa Fe, NM March 2005 to April 2007 Managed installation, configuration, and maintenance of web applications, SQL Server 2005, SQL server reporting services, BizTalk applications, and .NET web services. Interfaced with development and quality assurance staff to orchestrate software deployments; created versioning and rollback capabilities for deployments. Participated in management of environment for quality assurance, development, integration, training, and stage. Established and maintained a web-based collection of build and installation procedures documentation.  Key Projects and Achievements:  • Contributed to the Help Desk Improvement Team, documenting new processes and policies designed to improve team productivity, efficiency, and effectiveness.  • Played an integral role in the migration of code form Visual Source Safe to Team Foundation Server.  • Served on the Change Advisory Board, strategizing and recommending software changes to production for scheduled and emergency releases.  Additional experience as a Proof Item Processor and Teller for Century Bank in Santa Fe, New Mexico. Education Bachelor of Arts degree in Computer Information Systems & Business Administration Eastern New Mexico University - Portales, NM Skills Lan/wan, Systems administration, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vmware, Exchange, Iis, Virtualization, Data backup, Sql server, Sql, Jira, Bcp, Firewall, Biztalk, Linux, Process improvement, Strategic planning, Mortgage, Lan Additional Information Highlights of Expertise:  • Systems Administration  • Data Backup & Recovery  • Strategic Planning  • BCP / DR Planning / Implementation    • Virtualization Technologies  • Process Improvement  • TCP/IP Troubleshooting  • LAN/WAN Technologies  • Project Management    • Vendor Relations  • Team Leadership  • Jira administration  • Confluence administration  • Firewall administration    Technical Proficiencies:  Platforms: Windows, VMWare, Linux, HyperV  Software:  Microsoft Office, VMware vSphere, Charles River, SQL Server, Coviant Diplomat, Advent Portfolio Exchange, Mortgage Cadence, IIS, Microsoft BizTalk, Jira, Confluence