Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Provo, UT With experience in systems administration, I am very qualified to work with both customers and with developers to help make sure needs are met. My sales background helped me learn how to be an effective communicator with prospects and clients. I am a very talented troubleshooter: if I don't know the answer, I know how to get it. I am personable, friendly and get along well with others. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Brigham Young University - Provo, UT April 2018 to Present Provided tech support to dozens of BYU administrators and their organizations’ associated websites. Managed over 100 websites and about 15 virtual and physical servers. I did regular troubleshooting on the server side and on the user side of programs and applications. I handled and secured sensitive data on a daily basis. I learned how to work with a team to solve problems that come up with technology. I further learned about networks and how they work with servers and web applications to accomplish important tasks. Salesman Vivint Smart Home - Provo, UT May 2013 to August 2017 Job responsibilities included door to door sales of security and smartphone products. The total value of contracts I sold over the three summers was approximately $417,000. Here I learned to better help others make informed decisions based off their needs. Stockman Hobby Lobby - Meridian, ID October 2015 to January 2016 I worked at a cash register and stocked merchandise. I learned to be friendly, helpful, and personable in working with customers and coworkers.  Education Some college--3 years in Computer science, mathematics, statistics, engineering Brigham Young University-Provo - Provo, UT January 2016 to May 2019 High school or equivalent John Marshall Senior High School - Rochester, MN September 2008 to June 2013 Skills Active Directory, Linux, Linux Administrator, System Admin, System Administrator, Vmware, Microsoft Office, Ubuntu, Group Policy, Powershell, Bash, MySQL server Management, Customer Service, Sales, Windows server, Portuguese, Spanish (conversational), Phpmyadmin, Lamp stack, Lemp stack, C++, Linear Algebra