Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Systems Technician - Westmark Credit Union Rigby, ID • IT Systems Technician for Westmark Work Experience Systems Administrator Westmark Credit Union - Idaho Falls, ID July 2017 to Present IT Systems Technician Westmark Credit Union July 2018 to May 2019 Performs computer related assignments and duties, including monthly computer maintenance  (in accordance to the standards as set forth in Westmark policy), setting up new PC's or other  equipment, and other computer related assignments given by the I.T. Manager as it relates to the Branch environment. Travel to Branches is required.  • Assist in daily, weekly, and periodic HP Unix system operations and ensure Data Processing  jobs are completed in a timely and accurate manner  • Troubleshoot technical issues and identify modifications needed in existing applications to meet changing user requirements.  • Investigate and resolve application and hardware functionality related issues and provide first  level support and troubleshooting to Credit Union staff  • Helped Deploy and Manage Virtual Machine using VMware, Sphere  • Helped Deploy and Manag Active Directory, Windows Server 2016  • Performs any and all duties assigned by the IT Manager.  • Manage office 365 Online IT Administrator Arlenco Distribution May 2016 to July 2018 • Manage six Remote Buildings Computers, Printers, Network, and VIOP phones.  • Web Development - create custom pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP.  • Managed And Supported AWS Servers Manager Arlenco Distribution May 2016 to July 2018 • Managed Website, and assisted in the Marketing Designs.  • Do all Sales, Support, Purchase orders, Returns and Shipments for LuxonVideo  o Troubleshoot Customer Issues with Analog and IP Camera Systems  o Repair and Maintenance on Security Systems  o Helped Prepare Solutions for Remote Businesses Easytech Associate Staples Easytech & Copy Center - Ammon, ID November 2014 to June 2016 • Take care of customer needs as easy tech.  • Consulting on computer, routers, and technologies related questions.  • Troubleshoot problems with customer computers.  • Making sure tech department is organized.  • Checking problems on costumer computers.  • Take care of customer needs as copy center.  • Copy and print jobs on printers to fit customer needs.  • Fixing issue with printers.  • Troubleshoot problems with orders. Hertz Car Sales Service Department - Idaho Falls, ID July 2012 to October 2014 • Loan out cars.  • Make sure sold cars meet customer standards.  • Fix issues with broken or missing parts in cars.  • Talk to customer to let them know statuses of car or situations. Education Associate in Computer Science Eastern Idaho Technical College - Idaho Falls, ID Skills Comptia, Help Desk, Desktop Support, Information Technology, It Specialist, Network Support, Cisco, Computer Repair Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/2nijny41eg002wqj Technical Support — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qyhsabfbw3ywvji Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.