Systems Administrator II <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Systems Administrator II - Vanderbilt University Summertown, TN Work Experience Systems Administrator II Vanderbilt University - Nashville, TN February 2014 to Present • Administrator for Campus Dining Website.  • Provided Meal Plan customer support for Students, Parents, Faculty, and Staff.  • Responsible for weekly meal plan and cash usage reports and analysis.  • Responsible for billing of 10,000 + students, faculty, and staff (over 25 million dollars annually).  • Reduced expenses of Campus Dining by $12,400 by implementing in-house selection of meal plans and signage for menus. Trust My Tech IT Services Summertown, TN April 2013 to Present Owner & Proprietor  • Managed Services, Computer Repair, Website Design IT Network\ System Administrator Hitachi Automotive Systems - Monroe, GA January 2011 to April 2013 • Maintained 99.9% uptime on all company networks (Cisco).  • Managed software deployment and monthly infrastructure documentation with Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager.  • Maintained Windows (2003 and 2008) servers (physical and virtual) in a production environment.  • Maintained daily system backups, software updates, and current anti-virus software definitions  • Configured and installed routers, switches and wireless controllers (Cisco).  • Maintained company servers, computers, printers, cables and other equipment.  • Wrote department communications, training materials and organized training sessions for new employees.  • Managed user and workstation OU's within Active Directory  • Patched internal systems within 60 days of patch release.  • Collaborated across departments to address information management needs and resolve issues.  • Worked with outside vendors and teams to develop voice and data infrastructure. Computer Technician Hitachi Automotive Systems - Harrodsburg, KY August 2006 to December 2010 • Set up, tested and configured desktops, laptops and printers.  • Saved the company more than $10,000 by refurbishing used computers and technological equipment.  • Created and Implemented Help Desk Wiki for department cross-training and user support.  • Resolved technical issues for users in person, on the phone and through e-mail.  • Installed motherboards, processors, RAM and graphics cards.  • Maintained quarterly PC Image updates for 14 different PC models. Diagnosed, installed, configured and repaired computer systems and software. Pastor/Technology Supervisor Bascom/Greenwood Methodist Churches - Bascom, FL June 2005 to July 2006 • General pastoral duties.  • Maintained church computers, network, and websites. Computer Lab Supervisor Asbury Theological Seminary - Wilmore, KY September 2002 to May 2005 • Supervised and trained student lab workers.  • Assisted students with more complex computer issues.  • Supervised computer lab move across campus and integration from Information Technology department to Information Services. Education Master of Arts in Divinity Asbury Theological Seminary Wilmore 2001 Bachelor of Science in Therapeutic Recreation University of South Alabama Mobile - Mobile, AL 1997 Skills Desktop and laptop expert (10+ years), Cloud Computing (2 years), Virtualization (2 years), Server Administration (7 years), Active Directory (7 years), SCCM, System Administrator, Linux, Vmware Certifications/Licenses MCSE March 2009 to Present