Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Application Administrator Columbus, OH To work with like-minded people on challenging new projects, achieve a higher understanding of technology, and further my career in the IT and leadership fields. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Faith Life Church - New Albany, OH April 2019 to Present Configure and deploy Cisco switches/routers to better serve needs of office and increase bandwidth and speed.  • Deployed new systems ranging from laptops to custom built desktops, to new POS stations  • Security and monitoring of all applications and verify integrity of data streams and services.  • Wrote up processes and instructional documentation for future employees and personnel.   • Managed Microsoft deployment server, Active directory, ticketing, remote control, anti-virus, and cloud applications with a new efficient process.  • Provide local and remote support across all platforms and to all skill levels. Founder/Owner Columbus, OH August 2011 to Present 43220  Consultant for the building of computing systems for consumer and professional use. On-site enterprise networking setup and maintenance. Cable, air flow, and fiber optic management and standards. Technical support done for all customers. Pc Repair, troubleshooting (on-site and remote), and deployment. Application Administrator DMI Inc. - Columbus, OH November 2018 to February 2019 Monitor and maintain servers that service different government and military clients to ensure pepper communication and information channels stay live. Work within Unix and windows servers, and maintain the digital and physical security of the site. Manager & Trainer Retail Store Manager June 2014 to November 2018 Wireless Vision T-Mobile Branded retailer  Responsible for providing leadership and training, ensuring store associates understand goals, and helping  To achieve their goals at a high standard. Planning various events, organizing training, recruiting, assisting with technical support to customers, and also maintaining store IT standards. Education AS (in progress) in Computer Science CSCC 2018 Skills ANDROID, IOS, COMPTIA security+, RECRUITING (4 years), TRAINING (4 years), Talent Development, People, Human Resource Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/kevin-dkpcs-granger Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ November 2018 to November 2021 Additional Information Skills & Certifications  • CompTia Network+ (in progress)  • Proficient with Windows/OS X Android/IOS, Speaks multiple, languages, Problem-solver, ambitious and detail oriented, SSBI- July 2012, Inventory Management, Business Development, Recruiting, Operations Management, Training