Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Parker, CO I am an experienced and passionate IT professional with a  varied skill set. I have extensive experience building and  supporting enterprise level wireless/wired networks and  managing a small effective support team. I am seeking an IT  position with a dynamic company that provides the opportunity  for me to continue to grow my career, challenge myself, and  learn in a supportive and positive environment. Work Experience Systems Administrator Lockheed Martin - Littleton, CO March 2019 to Present CO    ? I was part of the RMS division of Lockheed Martin where I worked on a variety of projects and obtained a secret  government clearance.    ? I gained experience and worked with vSphere, RHEL,  CentOS, Nginx, and Ansible. Technical Support GX2 Technology - Parker, CO September 2015 to February 2019 I managed, encouraged, and supported a small team  with the goal of providing our customers the best service  possible. I performed a variety of different tasks in this  role that required me to be dynamic, flexible, and adaptable.    ? Supported, configured, and troubleshot a variety of different networks and equipment including Cisco, HP,  Brocade, D-Link, Ruckus, Adtran, Ubiquity, Cambium,  Palo Alto, Super-Micro, Fortinet, and more. This  included configuring switches, servers, and firewall  devices with appropriate VLANs, SNMP information,  management subnets, DHCP pools, VPN tunnel info,  torrent site restrictions, and port tagging to network  standards before these devices were shipped out to customers.    ? Extensive experience building and troubleshooting  enterprise level wireless/wired networks in cloud and hardware based controllers including Ruckus Zone  Directors, and the Ruckus Smart Cell Gateway.  Configured/provisioned AP's, created and managed  SSID's, WLAN groups, AP groups, and configured and managed switches, and LIN servers.    ? Collaborated with a group of developers to create and customize a login page for a major hotel chain using  Plunker, HTML and CSS. I reversed engineered and wrote all the HTML and CSS code for this project and  worked closely with the head web-developer from creation to implementation of this page.    ? Monitored 300+ sites in the Orion Solar Winds platform  and took the appropriate steps to bring offline devices  back online in a timely manner.    ? Tracked, created and managed tickets for various issues  in a proprietary ticketing application (Wildfire) and made sure to keep all tickets up to date and current.    ? Configured, helped install, and managed various models  of Cambium Point to Point and Point to Multipoint  wireless units.    ? Oversaw the hiring process of new level 1 technicians.  This included: reviewing resumes, running interviews, and making the final decision after carefully discussing  it with the rest of the support team.    ? Documented and maintained accurate network and device information via a KB (Knowledge Base) for 300+  sites. This included mapping the network topology and creating diagrams using Lucidchart and Gliffy. Reading Technician Cherry Creek Schools - Aurora, CO August 2014 to June 2015 I worked with 1st through 3rd graders on improving  their reading skills and confidence in a small group  setting. I analyzed student data and assessed students in all grade levels. I placed students first in a team  environment and developed a positive relationship with students and fellow teachers. Education Certificate Arapahoe Community College - Littleton, CO August 2014 to May 2015 Certificate Colorado Christian University - Lakewood, CO August 2004 to May 2007 Skills Brocade (3 years), Cisco (3 years), Css. (3 years), Html (3 years), Orion (3 years) Additional Information Skills ? Ruckus vSCG (virtual Smart Cell ? Ruckus Zone Director  Gateway) ? Orion Solar Winds  ? Digium PBX ? Linux servers (Ubuntu,  ? Windows 2008r2/2012 server Cent OS, RHEL)  ? Cova Chill ? gOS servers (Proprietary  ? Radius server server build on top of a  ? Property Management Systems linux box)  (PMS) ? Cisco routers and switches  ? C9 Networks CMTS (Cable ? Brocade, HP/Aruba, Dell,  Management Termination System) D-Link switches  ? HTML/CSS ? Motorola, Xyxel, and  ? Mikrotik routers Zhone DSLAMs  ? Bootstrap HTML framework ? Lucidchart & Gliffy  ? Salesforce ? Palo Alto & Fortinet  ? Logic Monitor Firewalls  ? vSphere ? Ansible  ? XenServer