Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - National Space & Aeronautical Administration - NASA (KBRwyle) Houston, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator National Space & Aeronautical Administration - NASA (KBRwyle) - Houston, TX February 2016 to July 2019 •Pioneered server consolidation within the Telescience Support Center and eliminated over 20 physical servers  •Installed and deployed VMware Enterprise Plus with Operations Management in clustered environment  •Transitioned the organization from a Red Hat Enterprise KVM hypervisor to VMware ESXi 6.0  •Updated all virtual machines from Windows Server 2008 to Windows Server 2012 R2 and Server 2016  •Primary Nimble SAN Administrator managing over 90TB of storage  •Managed workstation computer systems using Microsoft System Center Configuration Manger  •Technical lead for the Human Exploration Research Analog - HERA  •Responsible for providing 24/7 technical support for real-time operations within the Telescience Support Center  •Leveraged PowerShell and authored scripts to automate regularly scheduled tasks IT Systems Administrator The Right Step Behavioral Health - West Alabama, NY August 2014 to December 2015 Street  Houston, TX 77006    •Responsible for the network infrastructure of the corporate office in Houston, TX.  •Managed networks for over 20 Intensive outpatient facilities across Texas.  •Management of company terminal servers, Active Directory and domain environments.  •Accountable for conducting network and physical security audits for HIPAA compliance.  •Conducted phishing, social engineering, and penetration test exercises.  •Documented all network topologies, created detailed Visio maps.  •Installed, configured, and monitored Dell SonicWall firewall appliances at all locations. Network Analyst dck World Wide, LLC - Pittsburgh, PA January 2013 to August 2014 •Company Primavera Contract Manager administrator  •Administered Window Servers providing domain DHCP, DNS, and File/Print services  •Provided network troubleshooting and management, including cat5/6 wiring and punch-downs  •Managed an Active directory of approximately 1500 users  •Oracle Contract Manager Administrator, maintaining jBoss application and SQL servers for 200 users  •Supported a Mitel VOIP system, creating extensions, voicemail boxes, and zone/routing changes.  •Operated an Exchange 2003 mail server, assisted in the migrating of mailboxes to Office365.  •Played a critical role in the transition of 800 devices from Windows XP to Windows 7.  •Conducted scheduled job site visits to provide network upkeep and emergency response.  •Responsible for intake, documentation, and resolution of all helpdesk requests  •Authored training material and common setup documentation for end-users and new hires. Associate SharePoint Developer The Home Depot - Atlanta, GA August 2006 to December 2013 30339 Education Master's in Business Cyber Security Management UNIVERSITY OF WEST VIRGINIA - Morgantown, WV July 2019 to Present Bachelor's in Computer Forensics WAYNESBURG UNIVERSITY - Waynesburg, PA 2014 Associate in Computer Technology SOUTHERN MAINE COMMUNITY COLLEGE - South Portland, ME 2010 Skills Active Directory, Vmware, System Administrator, Linux, Windows Server (8 years), ESXi (3 years), Nimble (4 years), DHCP (8 years), DNS (8 years), Group Policy (8 years), Network Security (8 years), Ubiquiti (3 years), IIS (8 years) Links http://brandoncoughlin.com