Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Dripping Springs, TX Work Experience Systems Administrator Liaison Creative + Marketing - Austin, TX 2006 to Present Deployment of various network devices including Firewalls, Switches, and Wirless APS: brands include Adtran, Kerio, Linksys, DLink, Ubiquity, DELL, and WatchGuard.  ? Track and maintain information on hardware assets, software licensing, and warranty status.  ? Deployment of various NAS storage arrays, including Synology, DROBO, Pegasus, OWC Mercury Rack PRO's, and Dell Powervault.  ? Perform routine maintenance of network hardware and software by applying patches, installing firmware updates, upgrading operating systems, and installing plugins.  ? Configuration of various virtual environments, including Virtual Box, Parallels Desktop, Microsoft Azure, and VMware's ESXI with vSphere.  ? Configure services in Microsoft Azure, including AD, Information Protection with Rights Management, along with management of Office 365 licenses.  ? Setup of vpn services through IPSec or PPTP, based on supported firewall features.  ? Configuration and optimization of backup operations for critical infrastructure through the use of 3rd party software, powershell scripting, bash shell scripting, and public cloud offerings.  ? Deployment of MS Domain Controllers with AD/LDAP services and SSL certificates.  ? Deployment of high end servers with 'Out of Band' management and hyperconverged infrastructure technology.  ? Development of documentation and training materials for employees and key stakeholders.  ? Management of numorous IT projects, including requirements, timelines, and expectations of key stakeholders.  ? Helpdesk support, including responding to users issues, phone calls, and reported incidents.  ? Assess operational, technical, and support requirements for the location, installation, operation, and continued improvement of data communications and network systems. Tier-2 Phone Support Specialist Apple Computer - Austin, TX 2004 to 2006 Phone, E-mail, Web Support, 2001-2004 Education High school or equivalent Skills System Administrator, Active Directory, System Admin, Vmware