Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Metropoltech Consulting Inc Hyattsville, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Metropoltech Consulting Inc February 2016 to Present Managing Linux OS file systems.  ? Building and configuring new servers from scratch.  ? Perform multiplatform server builds on VMware (Linux Centos 7and RHEL 7).  ? Installing RHEL7 on new servers using standard and advance installation methods (kickstart) on x86 systems.  ? Responsible for assigning hostnames, static IP addresses, default gateway addresses and DNS addresses to introduce them to the network.  ? Provide basic printer support.  ? Performed troubleshooting for computer break fix processes and software upgrades.  ? Use ticket tracking system such as Star Service Desk to access assigned tickets and close them.  ? Administer security solutions, including firewall, anti-virus and intrusion detection systems.  ? Maintain end user accounts, permissions, access rights and network connectivity.  ? Perform system backups and recovery.  ? Perform remote troubleshooting using software like TeamViewer and LogMeIn.  ? Monitoring, Hardening, Patching on development and production servers.  ? Create new User accounts and profile on LINUX systems.  ? Use TCP/IP tools to troubleshoot and resolve network connectivity and DNS related issues.  ? Installation of Redhat Linux 7 on Dell PowerEdge 2950 Server and Dell Precision Tower using Interactive and Kickstart methods.  ? RAID1 configuration and iDRAC configuration on Dell PowerEdge 2950.  ? Installation and configuration of ESX Server 5.5.0.  ? Installation and Management of KVM virtual machines and Virtual Machines on ESX Server.  ? Extensive work on troubleshooting and resolving network connectivity issues.  ? Linux User Administration - creation and removal of user accounts, password resets and user account mgmt.  ? Patch Management using RPM and YUM.  ? Installed, configured and resolved issues with Apache Web Server (httpd) and Tomcat Web Application Server. Managed and extended ETX4 and XFS Logical Volumes.  ? Proactively monitored and managed system processes for maximum performance.  ? Archival of files using tar and star to mitigate file system space issues.  ? Setup public key-based authentication for SSH. Installed and configured openLDAP for centralized authentication. Configured Redhat 7 to use openLDAP for authentication.  ? Troubleshooting login and booting problems.  ? Good understanding of error logging and application log files. Use of log files to diagnose system issues.  ? Crontab configuration and scheduling of cron jobs.  ? Setting up shared file system for group collaboration.  ? Configuration and extension of swap volumes.  ? Monitoring server performance and application processes.  ? Monitoring systems using Nagios. Systems Administrator February 2014 to January 2016 Installed and configured RHEL 6 & 7 OS on physical machines and Virtual Machines.  ? Installed and upgraded packages on RHEL 6 & 7 servers using yum.  ? Process administration and management - monitoring, start/stop and kill various processes.  ? Performed user management such as creating and deleting users as required.  ? Applied security patches to keep servers secured.  ? Setup and configured firewall rules using iptables and firewalld.  ? Monitored and maintained disk space on a server.  ? Setup and configure network interface card on server.  ? Scheduled several jobs using Crontab and logging output.  ? Stopped and turn off all vulnerable services.  ? Maintaining user account, groups and permissions.  ? Closed and open UDP/TCP ports on server using iptables.  ? Managed and resolved server host name locally.  ? System administration, maintaining and monitoring day to day operation.  ? Moved data across the host using rsync and SCP.  ? Setup volumes to automatically mount upon reboot.  ? Created and added new physical volume to already exiting volume group. Residential Accountant EBED Community Improvement Inc - Largo, MD March 2013 to January 2015 Provide life skills training, behavior management and crisis intervention.  ? Assist individuals with medication administration and monitoring the effects of medication on them.  ? Provide personal assistance services in all activities of daily living.  ? Conduct person centered treatment planning and ongoing assessment.  ? Serve as a liaison with internal teams/program staff by providing timely and relevant updates on client's behavior.  ? Researches, develops and delivers curriculum that is relevant, well written and addresses a variety of life and vocational skills consistent with clients' interests and needs. Education Bachelor Computer Science .University of Douala - Douala, CM 2013 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, DHCP, LDAP, NETWORK TROUBLESHOOTING, TCP, TCP/IP, VMWARE, DNS, SECURITY, TOMCAT, NETWORKING, VIRTUALIZATION, SCRIPTING, SYSTEMS INTEGRATION, SECURITY ADMINISTRATION, APACHE, LINUX, SHELL SCRIPTING, UNIX, UNIX/LINUX, Linux Administrator, Redhat, Red Hat, System Admin, System Administrator