Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Managed IT Support Tech - Progressive Tech Edmonds, WA Work Experience Systems Administrator Progressive Tech - Seattle, WA October 2018 to Present with Windows 7, and 10, legacy  versions, Server 2008 and  Provide remote and on-site technical support for managed clients, dealing  2012, as well as Office 2013.  with active directory, networking, firewall and hardware support.  Responsible for managing and resolving customer tickets using FreshDesk Experience implementing and ticketing system. managing SIEM suites and  System engineering, ordering and implementation of network and sensors with Alienvault,  computer hardware for customers. LogRhythm, and Rapid7, as well as NGAV products such as Sales Engineer / Security Analyst Spadafy, LLC - Seattle, WA November 2015 to October 2018 Experience managing Active  Provide technical knowledge and design of network and data center  implementations based on customer provided specifications. Directory, Exchange, and Office365  Responsible for customer IT support, and maintaining VDI Environments,  networks, and security implementations. Familiar with VMWare and Experience with Liquidware Labs  implementation and Implement, configure, and deploy security products for clients. management of VOIP  Act as first responder for client's SIEM and security environment, fielding solutions.  alerts and escalating when needed, as well as active hunting for security  vulnerabilities and breaches. Experience setting up,  managing, and patching  Microsoft, Redmond, WA - Media Processing Engineer virtual environments with MAY 2011 - OCTOBER 2015 VMWare.  Identified workflow pain points, and developed solutions to increase  Strong technical customer  productivity by creating scripting templates to streamline processing tasks  for efficiency. service background, with ability to troubleshoot  Managed server-based media encoder instances to create high quality video  for Microsoft's XBox Video Marketplace. software, hardware and network issues.  Managed multiple time-sensitive projects to ensure proper implementation  and timely delivery. Experience with ticketing  systems to delegate workflow. Systems Administrator Renick Printing - Seattle, WA June 2005 to June 2009 Experience with VPN and Single Sign-on.  Build, repair and maintain all office computer hardware and software.  Managed and updated office network. Education Cascadia Community College - Bothell, WA