Systems Administrator II <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Systems Administrator II and Hardware Technician Beavercreek, OH I am a Cyber Security professional with an active top secret with SCI (with polygraph eligibility) with experience in administrating and troubleshooting government security systems. A tenacious learner and task expediter with capacity to solve complex issues while enduring the pressure of a fast-paced and ever changed technology environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator II Entwined Technologies Inc March 2017 to Present • Operations systems administrator for the Department of Justice. Work with multiple applications including the following: Tenable Security Center Vulnerability Scanning, IBM's BigFix, DB Protect, AppScanner, AppDetective, SailPoint, Venafi, Verodin, Guardium, and Splunk.    • Main focus on providing tier 2 and tier 3 support of Tenable and BigFix at an enterprise level to customers across the Department of Justice. Draft user communication and issue email notifications to key stakeholders and the user community regarding environment changes and outages, both planned and unplanned. Work to onboard additional DOJ components into our enterprise instance. Perform daily troubleshooting of tier 2 and tier 3 vulnerability scanning and connection issues for DOJ components. Consistently assist users with creating and updating their scheduled and ad-hoc scans.    • Pivotal personnel in the data center migration and standup of the new enterprise instances of Security Center applications for the Department of Justice including, but not limited to: Alcohol, Tabaco, Firearms, and Explosives organization, Executive Office of Immigration Review, Bureau of Prisons, Office of the Inspector General, and Continuous Diagnostics, and Mitigation (CDM). Radiology Office Assistant II Kettering Hospital July 2014 to March 2017 • Radiology Office Assistance for Kettering Medical Center's main campus. Provided support to 8 hospitals using EPIC, iSite PACS, and iSuite software.    • Job duties included: receiving, verifying, and uploading patient images submitted from other medical facilities into our primary image viewing software for physician use, ensuring timely reading of medical images by radiologists for emergency physician staff, and checking radiology technicians posted images for correct documentation. Internet Sales Associate Cardboard Heroes / Lids - Beavercreek, OH November 2011 to June 2014 • Complete inventory control over our online store fronts including: a company Amazon seller account, 4 Yahoo Small Business websites, and a Sears' marketplace website.    • Responsible for adding new inventory and removing out-of-stock inventory to all company storefronts, mark and unmark listed products discounted as needed, modify product images that would be posted to online store fronts to be more appealing to the customers. Education Associates of Applied Science in Cybersecurity American National University - Kettering, OH September 2014 to December 2015 Wright State University - Dayton, OH September 2010 to September 2014 University Of Cincinnati - Cincinnati, OH September 2009 to June 2010 Skills Tenable Security Center (1 year), Active Directory (1 year), System Administration (1 year), IBM ELMS (End Life Management Systems) (1 year), HSPD-12 (1 year), Remedy (1 year) Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ November 2018 to November 2021