Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> New Jersey - Systems Administrator Cliffwood Beach, NJ An accomplished, reliable and detail-oriented professional with years of experience supporting leaders and day-to-day operations. Proven in troubleshooting in addition to project management and managing physical inventory. Focuses on team development and is an exceptional communicator. Extremely adept at organizing information, maintaining schedules, streamlining communications and working well under pressure. Brings a proactive, business-minded approach to any organization. Can easily work Independently and is an influential individual that contributes to the success of the company. Acknowledged for strategically solving problems, using balanced judgement on critical projects, and delivering on-time, high quality work. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Water Tech Corp - East Brunswick, NJ January 2011 to April 2018 • Work independently and collaboratively.  • Microsoft Office Suite 2010, 2013, 2016, Office 365  • Maintain and support the integrity of the operating systems environment and various computer systems.   • Administer, install and troubleshoot Windows operating systems. - Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8, 10; Windows Server 2008 r2, 2012  • Perform systems maintenance tasks, such as system backup, recovery and file maintenance.   • Schedule and install system software upgrades. Configure software and resolve technical problems.  • Monitor and maintain software licensing and maintenance agreements.  • Computer/Printer Support and Troubleshooting.  • Develop procedures for the company.  • Information Technology, Logistics, Warehouse, and Shipping  • Mobile Account, Billing, and Device Management.  • Copier Account, Billing, and Troubleshooting  • Systems Implemented - Powerhouse: Warehouse Management Software, Quickbase  • Systems Administered - Active Directory, Voice Over IP, Quickbooks Enterprise, Powerhouse: Warehouse Management Software, Quickbase, UPS Worldship, Fedex Ship Manager, USPS Easy Tech Supervisor Staples - Manalapan, NJ 2009 to 2010 • Repair and service customer computers.  • Troubleshooting, Virus and Spyware removal, Formatting, Operating system installation, Hardware replacement/installation, Software Installation Photoshop Supervisor CVS - Chatham, NJ 2008 to 2009 Process and develop customer photos within a specified time frame. Data Entry Clerk UPS - Edison, NJ 2006 to 2008 • Data Entry and Correction  • Maintain a specific count of completed packages per hour.   • Served on the Safety Committee. Education Certificate of Graduation in Information Technologies Chubb Institute - East Brunswick, NJ 2005 to 2006 Skills Active Directory (7 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Troubleshooting (10+ years), Voice Over IP (7 years), Inventory Management (7 years), Computer Repair (10+ years), Desktop Support (10+ years), Network Support (7 years), Information Technology, It Specialist Certifications/Licenses MTA: Windows Operating System Fundamentals 2018 to Present Assessments Project Management Skills: Budgeting — Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to manage project budgets by appropriately allocating and monitoring financial resources. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/rnczp3pynljltgay Technical Support Skills — Expert February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ej1grthuhso4808 Problem Solving — Expert February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/pj-mu4e8zrnjqty1 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.