Systems Administrator II <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Central Point, OR Innovative Full Stack Web Developer with 5+ years of experience in HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Node.js, JSON, Python, MongoDb. I began years ago developing a player tracking game for an online strategy game and recently had the opportunity to apply those skills in my last position. Looking forward to continuing the journey, learning as much as I can along the way. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator II FPI Management, Inc. - Folsom, CA October 2016 to April 2019 • Automated systems account management processes with Python, reduced 95% time required to complete daily account migrations and updates.   • Designed and launched a production web application using RESTful practices with HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, and jQuery to manage over 3500 email accounts, 4200 user accounts.   • launched a MongoDB database to track all details on over 850 properties.   • Designed reporting tools that supported data syncs between multiple data driven systems managed through multiple departments.   • Integrated Google Admin SDK to manage the google owned products in the web application.   • Developed an internal Email campaign script for sending notifications to specific employees based on title or location of property they managed.  • Automated group memberships based on employee location and position. Reducing group management processes by 75% Systems Administrator CompuCom - Onsite at Intel 2010 to April 2016 Full-time Systems Administrator including roles in Engineering Computing. Provide Windows/Unix/Linux Administration. Data Center systems operation/New equipment setup/Hardware support/Software support in batch computing environment. Desktop system support with proprietary vendor hardware.  Key Contributions:  ? Developed support scripts in Bash and Python to assist with asset management and asset readiness.  ? Improved multiple work flow process to streamline start to finish projects for new equipment preparation and implementation.  ? Re-designed multiple Excel templates to include the use of functions and data validation to reduce data redundancy and to improve validation efficiency.  ? Supported multiple large scale data center operations including hardware support, downtime scheduling and shutdown events.  ? Trained employees across multiple departments on network operations including log-in procedures, network management software, permissions, printing issues, security and in-house data backup procedures.    Brian Resume •    PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Web Application Developer WebApp_tracking_tool 2014 to 2016 https://github.com/Xariec/WebApp_tracking_tool  OfficeMax 2008 System Administrator / Network Administrator / Intranet Developer RE/MAX Gold - Sacramento, CA 2008 to 2010 Provided Technical and telecommunications support for twenty four satellite offices in northern California Including full office IT setups including Printers, faxes, copiers, client systems, Phone setups, and networking hardware.Administrated and maintained local Intranet, ASP/.Net framework, including site updates, user access, and site re-design.    Key Contributions:  ? Developed streamlined Windows client installation for office systems.  ? Trained office administrators on system operations and troubleshooting of minor system challenges.  ? Developed a ticketing system to streamline office trouble reporting and to create accountability and information of the common challenges allowing us to track trends on specific hardware setups that were not running optimally.  ? Developed a full twenty four hour monitoring/alerting system that was able to monitor each office individually ensuring minimum downtime and prompt response time to outages or other challenges.    Additional Experience Education High school Diploma Foothill High School - Palo Cedro, CA 2002 Skills HTML (5 years), CSS (5 years), Javascript (5 years), Python (10+ years), Google SDK (3 years), MongoDB (5 years), Node.js (3 years) Links https://github.com/Xariec/WebApp_tracking_tool http://www.bbarnes.me Military Service Branch: US Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: Airman First Class October 2002 to May 2004 Certifications/Licenses UDEMY - The Web Developer Bootcamp (UC-XJH5KDP1) Present