Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Systems Engineer Sunset Beach, NC 8 years of experience in Windows and Linux environments. I have a broad knowledge of LAN, WLAN and VPN networking, and customer service with some sales experience. Also I have provided oversight and management of multiple networking projects for localized expansions to state-wide expansions. Additionally I have experince with Veem, Acronis, and Unitrends. Work Experience Systems Administrator HealthCare Partners of South Carolina - Conway, SC January 2019 to Present I manage the entire network including the firewalls, switches, servers and eClinicalWorks. I completely revamped the entire network increasing its capacity by more than 3x’s across all locations. Also, I performed a full security audit and domain migration to ensure we are compliant and secure. Security Infrastructure Engineer CenturyLink - Columbia, SC June 2017 to Present Currently I am a level one security operations engineer, utilizing IBM Q-Radar and SNORT data to monitor traffic and offenses, my position is to collect relevant data for offenses and determine if they are potentially harmful or not to networks and companies around the globe. Senior Systems Administrator Colonial HealthCare - Sumter, SC September 2016 to May 2017 • Manage ISP contracts and assist in the design of network infrastructure.  • Assist MSP with on-site support when they do not have the capacity to assist our users.  • Support nearly 30 sites across the state of SC and about 400 employees.  • Assist in the management of servers as which includes all Windows Server 2012 OS's and two separate VMware ESX hosts. Network Engineer HillSouth iT Solutions - Florence, SC March 2016 to September 2016 • Client facing Administrator that supported multiple companies and users.  • Handled all client issues from desktop applications to advanced firewall and routing problems.  • My goal was to ensure high up-time of our clients that we managed.  • Our main customer base was 80 percent healthcare related and the rest being hotels and other business across the state. At-Home Tier 2 iOS Advisor Apple Inc - Florence, SC September 2014 to May 2016 • Provided support to Tier 1 advisors as well as customers when the issue needed to be escalated.  • Assisted the user troubleshoot their Apple products and determine if they had a hardware or software issue and worked to resolve it for them.  • It was my goal to make sure I could do everything to assist the customer even if it involved making exceptions to ensure customers were satisfied. Client Systems Technician Supervisor United States Air Force - Grand Forks AFB, ND October 2010 to July 2014 • Managed and maintained LAN for 2,100+ users and 3,000+ computers and servers.  • Responsible for classified public key infrastructure.  • Performed and managed client software and hardware (information systems/technology mgmt.) tasks and functions. Worked with Windows Server 2008 - 2012.  • Responsible for network and provided computer support for the $76M Local Area Network. Used Juniper and EMC SAN.  • Created virtual machines. Used vCenter and vSphere.  • Designed wireless access points for base backbone.  • Oversaw, configured, and troubleshot Virtual Private Network (VPN) systems for key base personnel.  • Utilized Remedy ARS, Active Directory, Group Policy and NetIQ DRA.  • Oversaw the supervision of 3 other Airman in my office to ensure they were equipped with the knowledge to assist users on base without intervention. System Administrator Intern Horry Telephone Co-op - Conway, SC October 2008 to June 2009 Intern duties included ghosting of computers and basic network and workstation troubleshooting. Education BS in Computer Science University of Phoenix December 2017 AS in Computer Science Community College of the Air Force July 2014 High school or equivalent Aynor High School - Aynor, SC January 2009 Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: E4 Additional Information SKILLS    • Network Troubleshooting: Advanced  • VMWare vSphere & ESXi: Advanced  • Microsoft Windows & Server: Expert  • Avaya VOIP Systems: Advanced  • IPTV Solutions: Advanced