Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - MIL Corporation Arlington, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator MIL Corporation - Washington, DC April 2016 to Present Department of Commerce (International Trade Administration)  • Led 3-person team that was responsible for deploying and networking over 200+ laptops and Desktop in Domestic offices across the Continental United States and 500+ computers in International Embassy offices.  • Led team that was responsible for supporting mobile devices (Laptops and iPhones) for over 200+ users at the SelectUSA Summit Conference  • Led 5-person team responsible for testing, documenting and deployment of Network PIV card for over 1000+ international users so that we can become PIV compliant according to government regulations.  • Led integration and deployment of Personal Identity Verification (PIV) smart card project for 1000+ users located in HQ and Domestically, which provided enhanced security to access International Trade Administration (ITA) resources and update knowledge management documentation.  • Works with Systems Infrastructure team to upgrade over 3000 computer/laptops/Surface Pro's to latest Windows 10 Operating Systems (OS) version (1803) and build using Software Center Configuration Manager (SCCM).  • Led weekly training sessions to assist 300+ ITA users in the functionality of the new Citrix Virtual Desktop Interface (VDI).  • Manage and maintain cloud-based (AWS) and on-premise servers to insure federal requirement and departmental objectives are met.  • Work with other Subject Matter Experts(SME) to assess and develop recommendations for emerging technologies such as AWS, Microsoft Azure and Cisco ISE, to enhance departmental and federal security.  • Analyze and monitor network workload capacity for domestic and international sites using SolarWinds network monitoring software.  • Consults weekly with Program Manager and departmental executives to provide project updates and suggest resolutions to outstanding issues.  • Works with Systems Infrastructure team to determine best implementation approach regarding monthly security and Microsoft updates on the 3000+ ITA workstations and 15+ servers and determine best implementation approach.  • Deploy server and workstation patches using Software Center Configuration Manager(SCCM) for 2500+ ITA workstation and 15+ servers.  • Worked on 6-member team to transition 2500+ users from RSA Security hard tokens to SafeNet MobilePass software token system.  • Enhanced Knowledge Management repository using ServiceNow to insure current documents remain relevant and up-to-day. Systems Administrator BAE Systems - Washington, DC October 2011 to April 2016 Department of the Interior (Office of Historical Trust & Accounting)  • Led and organized the transition from a physical Development Server infrastructure to Virtual infrastructure as part of cloud-based initiative for the Office of Historical Trust & Accounting (OHTA)/Office of Special Trustee (OST) using VMware vSphere 5.5.  • Lead transition of 100+ OHTA/OST users to logon and access network resources using PIV Cards as a measure of enhanced network and facility security.  • Collaborated with Executives and Directors to analyze system hardware, interface requirements, software requirements and network architecture and provided recommendation on what IT equipment is need to help them reach their desired goals.  • Provided Management with IT systems and server recommendation and best practices that help them meet their daily and future enterprise goals.  • Worked as part of 3-person team to migrate the Production Server environment to a Virtual environment for OHTA and OST using VMware vSphere 5.5.  • Developed and presented weekly reports for Program Manager and OST directors and executives to provide project updates, discuss outstanding issues and collaborate on potential solutions.  • Acted as the Subject Matter Expert (SME) for the transition of 350 OHTA/OST users from Microsoft Outlook Exchange to Google Mail cloud-based email system.  • Transitioned 10 Dell PowerEdge servers as part of the Windows Server 2003 end-of-life migration strategy to Windows Server 2008 R2.  • Administered user account creation, network and applications access for 350 OHTA/OST users in Active Directory.  • Scheduled monthly deployments of Windows 7/10 and Microsoft security updates for 15 servers and 350+ computers using Big Fix patch management software.  • Created Asset Management System using Microsoft Excel to track and support the life cycle Management of 5,000+ assets for OHTA/OST.  • Built and maintained an 8 Terabyte (TB) tape backup server and scheduled daily, weekly and monthly backups using Symantec Backup Exec. Systems Administrator Virginia Tech - Blacksburg, VA August 2010 to August 2011 • Responsible for analyzing IT needs of Computer Science department and providing recommendation to Departmental Directors on what equipment will best help them meet their current and future needs.  • Created Windows 7 image using SysPrep and deployed to 300+ faculty and staff using Norton Symantec Ghost.  • Managed and maintained user account creation, network and applications access for 300 faculty and staff users in Active Directory.  • Built and managed 20 Dell and IBM servers running Windows server 2008 R2 for faculty and staff users.  • Created monthly automatic scheduling of Microsoft security and Windows updates for 20 servers and 300 computers using Windows Server Update Services (WSUS).  • Collaborated with network administrators to troubleshoot, diagnose and resolve networking issues. IT Specialist Virginia Tech - Blacksburg, VA August 2005 to August 2010 • Designed and implemented paperless parking enforcement system for parking citations which resulted in increased efficiency and tripled revenue for the Parking and Transportation department.  • Designed and developed Windows 7 image using Norton Symantec Ghost and stored on Image server for deployment.  • Created monthly automatic scheduling of Microsoft security and Windows updates for 10 servers and 200 computers using System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM).  • Supervised 4-person team, who were assigned specific tasks involving software installation, hardware diagnostics and computer deployments.  • Designed and implemented group policy for 200 users using Microsoft Management Console (MMC) for profile permissions, file sharing, printer mapping and folder redirection.  • Collaborated with civil engineers to assess specific requirements needed for computers running ArcGIS and Autodesk software. Education B.S. in Information Systems Ferrum College - Ferrum, VA Skills System Administrator, Active Directory, Vmware, System Admin, Scheduling, Outlook, Maintenance, Estimating