Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Bergenfield, NJ A highly competent and organised systems administrator with experience of software & hardware procurement, installation, administration & compatibility. Possessing a proven ability to assist with the day-to-day running of an IT department and it’s business IT systems.   Well mannered, articulate and able to act as point of contact for colleagues and external clients.  Looking for a suitable systems administrator position with an exciting, innovative and ambitious company that offers room for progression. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Albanian Parliament - Tirana, AL May 2013 to July 2019 • Installed, supported and maintained servers and more than 500 Desktops/Laptops in the Parliament Data Center.  • Implemented, administrated and supported Active Directory.  • Analyzed systems logs and identified potential issues with computer systems.  • Administrated Ms Exchange 2013. Created and managed Mailboxes, Distribution Lists, Public Folders and Exchange client configuration using Microsoft Outlook.  • Trained Members of Parliament and staff on new technologies applied.  • Planned, developed, and implemented IT solutions as and when needed.  • Administrated the E-parliament System (electronic legislative process).  • Administrated Electronic Voting System of Albanian Parliament and assisted the voting process during plenary session.  • Recommended changes to improve systems and network configurations, and determine hardware or software requirements related to such changes.  • Backup and restore off Applications, Files, systems and Hyper-V with System  • Data Protection Manager (DPM). Backup-to-disk and to IBM tape Library.  • Experience in System Center Endpoint Protection, Symantec Messaging  • Gateway, SCCOM, Hyper V, CA, Dell SAN Storage, IBM Tape Library. IT Specialist Albanian Parliament - Tirana, AL May 2003 to April 2013 • Administrated 500+ PCs in all levels of hardware and software support as needed, including service desk support by answering calls, emails and in- person assistance.  • Maintained internal infrastructure requirements including, laptop and desktop computers, routers, switches, firewalls, printers, phones, security updates; support internet, intranet, LANs, WANs, and network segments.  • Created Users & Groups, profiles, roles, access and privileges.  • Maintained "Audio-Video Conference Systems" in Parliamentary Permanent Committees.  • Administrated File Shares, Disk Quotas.  • Monitored the progress of third-party maintenance contract suppliers.  • Prepared specifications of IT equipment. Computer courses Teacher/PC technician Wisdom Center - Tirana, AL 2000 to 2003 Albania)    • Teacher of computer course. (MS Windows 95/98, 2000, XP, MS Office packet, and Internet usage.  • Installed and updated software, diagnosed, repaired, and upgraded computer  systems.  • Setting up Internet, Modem, Multimedia and Printers. Education Bachelor's Degree in Electronics in Electronics Polytechnic University - Tirana, AL 1997 to 2002 High school or equivalent in Computer Science Vocational Electric High School - Tirana, AL September 1993 to July 1997 Skills ORGANIZATIONAL SKILLS (10+ years), MANAGERIAL, ARTICULATE, CONFIDENT (10+ years), PROBLEM-SOLVING (10+ years), Active Directory (7 years), System Administrator (6 years), System Admin (6 years), Help Desk (10+ years), Desktop Support (10+ years), SCCM (2 years), MAC (2 years), Apple, Macintosh, Tech Support, Comptia, Service Desk Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) May 2019 Verified International Academic Qualifications Present Additional Information Security Clearance: Top Secret    