Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Grant Supply Flushing, NY www.linkedin.com/in/tpark24 Work Experience Systems Administrator Grant Supply - Long Island, NY May 2015 to Present Install, upgrade, and configure new PC hardware and software on desktops, laptops and peripherals such as phones, printers,  external drives and other related hardware.  • Perform daily system checks, verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware, server resources, systems and key  processes, reviewing system and application logs. Improve configuration management and application deployments through scripting and the use of automated tools.  • Work as part of a team focused on designing, implementing and supporting current and future systems.  • Apply OS patches and upgrades on a regular basis, and upgrade administrative tools and utilities.  • Maintain and control user accounts and passwords using Active Directory and file permissions.  • Develop, document and effectively communicate job processes, procedures and techniques.  • Diagnose, troubleshoot and resolve Microsoft Windows hardware and software problems.  • Clearly communicate technical concepts to non-technical staff. Support Specialist - HeartVeinNYC EMR - New York, NY June 2013 to August 2014 Answers inquiries by clarifying desired information; researching, locating, and providing accurate information, including  education clients on our support site.  • Developing and designing training materials that are specific for clinicians, clinical support staff, case managers, and any  other staff who require training.  • Responsible for problem solving, assessing processes and issues, and collaborating with IT and clinical staff to develop  solutions.  • Run and analyze quality management reports related to Meaningful Use, UDS reporting, and other funding sources.  • Utilizing de-escalation skills and escalating cases when necessary in accordance with escalation procedures.  • Assisting clients to troubleshoot and resolve problems with their medical software program. Logistics Coordinator US Army - Indianapolis, IN June 2006 to June 2014 Analyze and coordinate the logistical functions to include modes of transportation, logistics, routing, personnel, hazardous  materials, cargo transportation, and use of computerized data management system.  • Perform clerical duties associated with the logistics such as shipping documents, freight bills, bills of lading, manifest sheets, and itineraries. Conduct regular briefings in order to ensure maximum proficiency while minimizing costs, losses, or damage.  • Operate as a quality control supervisor giving supervision and technical guidance for commercial movement.  • Perform system administrator duties such as installing software and uploading data to computer systems. Field Manager Samsung Service Center - Carlstadt, NJ February 2012 to May 2013 • Develop workflow for the field service team by providing training programs to ensure everyone works effectively.  • Supervise and oversee field employees in all assigned tasks to provide optimum customer service.  • Responding to on-call tasks and responsibilities, handling the needs and concerns of field staff.  • Examine new products and identify potential problems with new functions and designs.  • Develops and administer tests to measure effectiveness of curriculum or services. Education B.A. in English City College of New York Skills IMAGING (Less than 1 year), MICROSOFT OFFICE (Less than 1 year), MS OFFICE (Less than 1 year), R2 (Less than 1 year), SAP (Less than 1 year), Active Directory, System Administrator, System Admin Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/tpark24 Additional Information Skills: Windows Server (2008, 2012 R2), Windows OS (XP, Vista, 7, 8, & 10), Microsoft Office Suite (Microsoft 365),  Advantage Data Architect, System Imaging (Configuration and Upgrade), Computer Hardware, Computer Repair,  Technical Writing, Technical Support, SQL