Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> San Jose, CA Work Experience Systems Administrator IntelliCorp - San Jose, CA January 1996 to Present Oversaw IT activities supporting Windows desktops and laptops for local and remote users.  ? Planned and implemented upgrades to system hardware and software.  ? Documented policies and procedures for installation and configuration of software.  ? Installed, configured, and managed Windows based servers.  ? Performed Windows OS patch management through WSUS and/or KACE.  ? Implemented, tested and maintained file, print, and application servers in all departments.  ? Responsible for Inventory and ordering of all printer supplies, hardware and accessories.  ? Analyzed and assessed storage capacity of local and cloud deduplication file servers.  ? in charge of daily system backups using VERITAS BACKUP EXEC  ? Resolved issues and escalated problems with multiple support vendors.  ? Manage Windows security groups and OUs (users, computers, printers, etc.) within Active Directory.  ? Handled all distribution groups for Exchange and voicemail servers.  ? Solely responsible for all PBX administration, adds/moves/changes and other telecomm duties.  ? Managed and maintained access control list (ACL) on Windows share folders.  ? Maintained definitions on enterprise Anti-Virus systems such as Symantec Endpoint.  ? On call as after-hours support, performed remote support as needed.  ? Planned, implemented, and oversaw multiple corporate moves. Operations Manager Intellicorp - Mountain View, CA March 1988 to January 1996 Managed a nine person team overseeing company operations including facilities, shipping, mailroom, reprographics, reception, purchasing, and security. Directly handled all telecommunications and voicemail services. Oversaw leasing and support services for multiple worldwide sales offices, as well as our 60,000 square foot main headquarters. Education Computer Science San Francisco State - San Francisco, CA 1986 to 1988 Skills BACKUP EXEC (10+ years), Exchange (10+ years), Symantec (10+ years), VERITAS (10+ years), Active Directory, System Administrator, System Admin, Vmware Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/av2fu5nftjerc-0w Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.