Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Electric Ai Flushing, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Electric Ai - New York, NY August 2018 to Present ? Responsible for the administering of multiple SSO Platforms and managing 50+ SaaS Applications for over 250 companies in varying industries.  ? Maintain proper rapport/language with customers over chat based ticketing system ranging from interns to C-Level  executives.  ? Resolve basic level 1 and some level 2 issues in Mac OS and Windows environments along with some Network  Administration within Jamf Pro, Azure and Active Directory.  ? Coordinate and/or perform remote fixes at the desktop level, including installing and upgrading software/applications, implementing file backups and determining other necessary repairs.  ? Troubleshoot hardware issues that include PCs, Laptops, Telephony/VOIP Systems, Printers and cellular devices.  ? Provide "White Glove" service to high-risk/preferred clients.  ? Perform post-resolution follow-ups to help requests.    ? Research issues and resolves technical problems while adhering to internal SLA requirements.    ? Implement and maintain operational documentation and procedures (this includes Client onboarding/termination data, asset management).  ? Complete/coordinate technical and special projects as assigned. I.T Coordinator Pearlfisher Creative Brand & Design Agency - New York, NY November 2016 to July 2018 Provided technology support to all studios including San Francisco, London and Copenhagen.  ? Responsible for technology procurement.  ? Supervised user authentication, network enrollment, permission roles and distribution lists using Active Directory.  ? Managed software deployment and developments using Casper Suite.  ? Maintained Apple inventory, naming rights and user device assignments using Jamf Pro.  ? Offered proactive and on-call Network service as well wi-fi points, traffic shaping, VOIP, switch ports and other user appliances using Cisco Meraki Dashboard.  ? Successfully set up off-site working space for largest client project on company record.  ? Developed onboarding plan and training materials for freelancers/full-time employees.  ? Set-up of AV/IT equipment for client in-house meetings, press events and international web-conferences. Facilities/Office Associate Investment Technology Group, LLC - New York, NY August 2013 to November 2016 Supervised office maintenance operations including electrical, construction and ventilation work.  ? Created purchase orders and requisitions, receive technology equipment and assist generally in the procurement/asset management process.  ? Liaised between property management and vendors for office operations including certificate of insurance submissions.  ? Maintained office productivity by planning, coordinating, and directing all facilities operations in conjunction with relevant departments (Security, IT, Marketing, and Human Resources).  ? Managed and ensure adequate supply of inventory/supplies with allotted budget.  ? Responsible for same day service of incoming/outgoing shipment of office materials.  ? Maintained working relations with Property management to correctly support building infrastructure and operations.  ? Provided 24/7 on call support for emergencies and after hour issues. Education Bachelor of Arts in Mass Communications in Mass Communications Iona College - New Rochelle, NY August 2005 to May 2009 Skills Active Directory, System Administrator, Information Technology, Desktop Support, SAAS, System Admin