Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Salem, OR I am an experienced IT Administrator with a specialty in customer service and a positive work environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator OCDC July 2017 to August 2019 In my most recent position, as Systems Administrator, I was responsible for multiple client-based systems, i.e. Email, Financial, HR, and Employee services applications. I ensure that all remote devices/nodes are reporting positively and task the remediation of any errors that are reporting, from said systems.     I promote a safe, positive, customer service attitude as well as open and comprehensible communication, both verbal and written. Senior Network Technician OCDC July 2016 to July 2017 Leading the standards for the Held Desk staff, with policy and procedure.  Set, by example, expected customer services standards.  Monitor and verify that support tickets are managed and resolved in a timely, yet exceptional manner. NOC Engineer First Call Computer Solutions - Missoula, MT February 2015 to February 2016 Remote system monitoring and alert remediation.  Client server updates and security settings.  Anti-virus/Anti-malware installation, configuration and monitoring. Tire 2 Systems Administrator First Call Computer Solutions - Missoula, MT February 2014 to May 2015 Resolving escalated support tickets and ensuring customer/client ability to continue at their task. Help Desk Administrator First Call Computer Solutions - Missoula, MT September 2013 to February 2014 Managed Service Provider.  Multiple remote client support with focus on timed, successful remediation and resolution of any reported issues and complaints. Category Specialist First Call Resolution - Coos Bay, OR 2011 to 2012 Customer service and client/customer grievance resolution.  Efficient time management.  Punctuality. I.T. Support Technician Coos County - Coquille, OR 2010 to 2011 Responsible for all server backup and data replication for multiple remote sites. I.T. Support Specialist Oregon Coast Community - Coos Bay, OR 2006 to 2010 All IT/technical requirements, both software, firmware and hardware.  Includes all system/data backup and recovery operations.  Anti-virus/Anti-malware resolution. Network Administrator Cedco/Orca/The Mill Casino - Coos Bay, OR 2002 to 2006 Fiber optic to CAT 5 media conversion, including physically running and connecting all cable and equipment.  Extensive work in the outdoors with utility pole drop line experience.  Heavy equipment operation for cable to pole placement. Support Analyst Homestake Mining Company - Eureka, NV 1996 to 2002 Perfect Safety record, during my tenure.  Member of the Safely Comity and Fire Brigade.  MSHA Certified (Mine Safety and Health Administration.  Certified First Responder (EMS)    Experience and Duties:  • Extensive knowledge of Microsoft Active Directory and Exchange 2010 - 2016 administration, including Office 365 deployment and administration.  • Excellent end user support skills, both remote and on-site interaction.  • Remote monitoring and remediation.  • Implementation and monitoring of data backup routines and anti-malware solutions.  • Third-party vendor management, including hardware warranty, domain registration, licensing and cloud services.  • Configuration and management local and remote servers, switches, wireless controllers and access points.  • Apple iPad configuration and deployment, utilizing Mobile Device Management    *Professional and personal references and contact information available upon request. Education Associate Skills client support (10+ years), customer service (10+ years), Exchange (6 years), Mac (4 years), Mac OS (4 years), Microsoft Exchange (6 years), printing (10+ years), RECEPTIONIST (Less than 1 year), RETAIL SALES (Less than 1 year), Vmware, System Admin, Linux, Active Directory, System Administrator, SCCM, Linux Administrator Assessments Project Management Skills: Time Management — Highly Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to prioritize and allocate time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ocblj27zdathscgu Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/v6kxe3ue3av-m3hu Technical Support — Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qwayh4dlaomu3pu Email — Highly Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/9teew6bd164eftz Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/0fbkztaq-c0njqko Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Professional Skills:    • Extensive knowledge and experience in Server / Client environment. Advanced support and troubleshooting experience with legacy and current Mac OS X, Windows Domain Controllers, Microsoft Exchange servers, and Windows Client workstations.  • Exceptional customer service and client support with software, hardware, printing, connectivity and service access questions, issues and resolutions.