Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Media / System Management New York, NY A flexible and fast learning administrator with a history of self development and ambition. Constantly pushing for a further understanding of current and new systems and processes. Works well both within larger teams and in a leadership capacity to best accomplish project goals. Enjoys finding novel and efficient solutions to complex problems. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator New York University - New York, NY January 2019 to Present System Administrator School of Visual Arts - New York, NY October 2017 to January 2019 Administer Mac focused computing and networking infrastructure with a mix of departmental and bring-your-own devices.   Managed all departmental software deployment, maintenance and updates.  Work with students, faculty, and staff in both one-on-one and group training situations to provide the user with the best technological understanding and experience.  Liaise between SVA departments, such as the SVA theatre for several large event productions, and the A/V department for departmental updates, maintenance and troubleshooting.  Manage all departmental media and data, including maintaining and updating the departmental website. Freelance Videographer and Editor School of Visual Arts - New York, NY October 2017 to January 2019 Capture special Guest Lecture events using multiple cameras, presentation screen capture, and on-speaker wireless lavalier microphones.  Edit using Final Cut Pro, with a multicam workflow, focusing on narrative cuts, audio and voice enhancement, color correction and video noise reduction.  Prepare certain events for live streaming using Extron hardware encoders and Youtube Live. Systems Coordinator Stomping Ground Photo - Brooklyn, NY May 2016 to October 2017 Administered network and workstation hardware and software, including deployment, maintenance, large-volume data management, and maintaining physical and cloud back-up solutions.  Mainted studio quality workstations with regular machine optimization and monitor color calibration.  Directly supported end users through technical support and continuing user-relatable education.  Utilized PHP based workplace automation software to save upwards of 170 work hours a month, simplifying workflows and improving user efficiency. Post-Production Assistant Stomping Ground Photo - Brooklyn, NY September 2015 to May 2016 Processed and edited over 50,000 images per season.   Utilized Adobe Lightroom for high-volume photo processing and editing, performed higher level editing and retouching in Photoshop, and updated and managed metadata for these files.  Provided high quality customer support by working with the customers to understand their specific needs & applying that understanding to processing and fulfillment. Education Bachelor's in Integrated Media Arts Practices University of Colorado at Boulder - Boulder, CO 2011 to 2015 Skills Network Management (2 years), Microsoft Office Suite, VBA, HTML (5 years), CSS (5 years), Javascript (5 years), PHP (5 years), Photoshop (8 years), Illustrator (5 years), Indesign (5 years), Windows (10+ years), OSX / macOS (10+ years), System Administration (3 years), Linux (2 years), System Admin, System Administrator, Linux Administrator Certifications/Licenses Title Jamf Certified Tech July 2018 to Present License 201805-30585 Title AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner (CLF) August 2018 to August 2020 License F312B2312FVE1YSD Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/eig4eboetuzd4pz Technical Support — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/bi8-k0jxa5zdawrz Spreadsheets with Microsoft Excel — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate’s Microsoft Excel knowledge including common tools, PivotTables, conditional & nested formulas, and custom visuals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/f9gvtthy-lduw50n English Communication Skills: Typing — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively transcribe text using a standard keyboard. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/wleljdl8b6we8luo Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Additional Degree Information    Minors:  Technology, Arts & Media,   Linguistics,   and Philosophy  Dean’s List Honoree  Graduated with Distinction