Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Louisville, KY Currently looking for a full time, non-contract position as a IT Technician or Systems Administrator. I have been in the IT industry for over 20+ years. I have seen numerous changes in the IT world and have adapted to them very well. I am a hard worker and very diligent about my work. The companies I have worked for in the past would be very positive in their reviews of my work. I am loyal, dedicated, dependable and trustworthy. I believe that any company that would provide me with an opportunity will find that bringing me onboard with their company was an incredibly wise choice. I have a family to support and can start immediately with the right company and in the right position. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Strothman & Company, PSC - Louisville, KY January 2008 to June 2017 • Managed IT Support for one main office, two remote offices, and 66 full time employees.  • Conducted all IT functions including:  • Installed, upgraded, configured and supported all Windows's OS's from XP through Windows 10  • Installed, upgraded, configured and supported Windows server infrastructure from Server 2003 through 2012  • Experience in transitioning from physical server to virtualized server environment  • Applied routine updates to 6 virtual and 3 physical servers  • Performed cable runs and terminations at workstation locations to patch panels  • Maintained various licensing for all software, including specialized tax software  • Performed routine backups: (incremental, differential and full) on a daily, weekly and monthly rotation  • Installed maintained upgraded anti-virus software  • Responsible for all IT purchases, including replacement of HVAC system.  • Diagnosed and resolved issues with user's workstations, laptops or personal devices.  • Setup and supported IT equipment needed for out of office seminars  • Trained end users on proper IT awareness  • Sole point of IT contact for entire organization. Helpdesk Specialist/Asst Network Administrator ISCO Industries - Louisville, KY August 2003 to January 2008 • Developed, implemented and managed the IT Department Helpdesk.  • Created and implemented department Helpdesk policies and procedures.  • Supported users with system/network problems consisting of LAN, internet, VPN, Dial-up  and Communications (Analog, Cell & VoIP) issues.  • Resolved issues related to PC & terminal server environments.  • Worked directly with Network Engineers to assist in maintaining network/server stability.  • Developed complete asset tracking process for all IT equipment.  • Assisted in the maintenance, repair and configuration of office PC's, laptops and printers.  • Traveled to remote offices to help with new implementations and installations of equipment. Education Associates in CIT Jefferson Community & Technical College - Louisville, KY August 2018 to Present Certificate Sullivan University - Louisville, KY June 2007 Bachelor of Arts in Political Science University of Louisville - Louisville, KY May 1992 Skills Acrobat (10+ years), Active directory (10+ years), Adobe acrobat (10+ years), Backup exec (9 years), Encryption (7 years), Inter-tel (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), printers. (4 years), problem solver (10+ years), Symantec (8 years), Veritas backup exec (8 years), Vmware (10+ years), Vpn (5 years), Technical Support (10+ years), Windows (10+ years), Networking (10+ years), Mac (4 years), access, Customer Service, Windows 7, security Certifications/Licenses TestOut Security Pro Certification May 2019 to Present This certification does not have an expiration. Currently studying for the CompTia Security+ exam Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) December 2008 to December 2012 CompTIA Network+ December 2006 to Present CompTIA A+ October 2006 to Present Additional Information SUMMARY OF SKILLS  • Over 20+ years of Systems Administrator experience.  • A creative problem solver who is able to effectively troubleshoot and actively seeks feedback to ensure users'  needs are met.  • Displays a strong attention to detail when repairing and installing PC's, laptops, and printers.    COMPUTER PROFFECIENCIES  • Windows OS 7, 8, and 10 • Server 2008 & 2012 • McAfee EPO  • Windows Active Directory • Symantec Backup Exec • PGP Desktop Encryption  • Windows Server Update Services • Adobe Acrobat 7.0 & X • Inter-Tel IP Phone Systems  • Microsoft Office Suite 2007 & 2010 • VPN Networks • VMWare  • Network structure & break points