Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - City of Anderson Anderson, SC With close to 20 years of experience, my accomplishments with managing and directing information technology operations across a broad array of technical fields include hardware, software, networking, multiple operating systems, project management, database systems, customer satisfaction, production support, vendor relations, and Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) installations, migrations, technical upgrades and providing technical documentation.    I excel at meeting project milestones, enabling a clean and concise line of communication with management  / end users and managing the continued support of employee IT infrastructure. I employ a unique  combination of expertise in key areas where businesses require assistance, training along with practical,  intuitive technical skills. Work Experience Systems Administrator City of Anderson - Anderson, SC March 2015 to Present • Systems administration of servers, desktops, laptops, tablets and smart phones.  • Local and wide area network administration.  • IT, Financial, Government, Geographical systems support and network security.  • End-user support for 200+ employees along with 10 satellite offices.  • Manage technical projects, Criminal Justice Information Systems compliance, procurement  and implementation of new hardware and software solutions.  • 100+ Google Chromebook administration.  • 150+ iOS devices which require setup and management.  • 100+ IP cameras, procurement, configuration, management along with LTE router  configuration.  • Microsoft Office 365, city-wide desktop backup management.  • Forensics data extraction for our police department.  • Website configuration and management when needed.  • Supervisor to the IT department. Systems Administrator / Principal System Analyst Software Works, Inc - Greenville, SC November 2000 to February 2015 • Provide installation, implementation, support and technical assistance for ERP applications.  • Provide customer support for Ross, Jeeves and Sage ERP systems.  • Provide customer support for clients running MS Windows Server systems.  • Create and delete user accounts, managing system accesses, troubleshooting user issues.  Maintain backup/restore services, monitoring system security and configuration  environments.  • Maintain current virus and media security configurations.  • Maintenance and status updates on current hardware and software configurations.  • Provide recommendations on products and solutions that will resolve issues pertaining to the program infrastructure.  • Provide expert level experience and hands-on day-to-day application.  • Apply expert-level knowledge and technical skills in planning and managing enterprise  systems as well as offering innovative alternatives; coordinates end-user staff efforts to assure the systems function as designed and evolve as needs change; develop and maintain  technical operations plans, operating procedures; implement, monitor and manage the systems; analyze complex technical and user needs and develop recommendations and  specifications for solutions.  • Make recommendations for ERP software and hardware purchases.  • Attend meetings and training sessions, reads related manuals to keep current on new  developments in system operation, software or information management.  • Participate in new application rollouts and upgrades by reviewing vendor provided technical  documentation.  • Maintain user access to the computer networks including adding, removing and troubleshooting.  • Built and configured Linux FTP, File and email (Postfix) servers.  • Maintain the software applications and appropriate security configuration controls and maintenance updates.  • Support the maintenance of SQL Server databases.  • Maintain hardware for all web applications including computing and communications devices.  Mandatory Skills: Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) applications, Windows Operating Systems  XP/Vista/7/8, Functional knowledge of application suite of tools, Microsoft SQL server database  administration, functional knowledge of Hyper-V virtualization platform, Internet Information Services  (IIS), Apache Tomcat Web Services configuration, upgrade and maintenance, Microsoft Office Suite, ESET Security Products Optional Skills: Joomla and Wordpress CMS.  • Ability to work on complex problems/projects of diverse scope  • TCP/IP set-up and troubleshooting  • Validation and verification of new & changed hardware, supplier's software releases, service  packs, customer facing documentation with the goal of enhancing total customer experience  • Hardware procurement for employer and clients  • ERP Cloud migrations  • Cisco administration and support  • Web development and support Junior MIS Manager Tim's Amusements - Greenville, SC June 1998 to November 2000 • Provided network and server administration for corporate and satellite locations  • Supported Windows server and Novell operating systems  • Provided LAN and desktop support to all employees  • Installation of desktop and server hardware and peripherals, problem troubleshooting and customer service support on all issues and problems related to the network and related elements  (i.e. Microsoft NT, Microsoft Office, Novell, etc.)  • Install various operating systems and various applications  • Coordinate and assist in the removal of old, and the installation of new technical equipment  • Ensure availability of MAS90 servers during core and non-core hours of operations Customer Service Representative Interlink Images - Anderson, SC January 1996 to May 1998 • Serviced over one hundred clients in two states  • Customer relations, advertising and point of sale  • Built relationships with owners, managers and employees  • Created sales and inventory reports  • Designed point of sale materials Customer Service Representative American Treasures - Atlanta, GA August 1993 to December 1995 • Serviced more than a hundred customers in the upstate of South Carolina  • Customer relations, advertising and point of sale  • Built relationships with owners, managers and employees  • Created sales and inventory reports Education High school or equivalent Skills NETWORKING, TCP/IP, MPLS, TCP, LINUX, System Admin, System Administrator, Active Directory, Active Directory, System Admin, System Administrator Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ July 1999 to Present CompTIA Network+ January 2015 to January 2021