Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - U.S. Air Force Reserves Gulf Breeze, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator U.S. Air Force Reserves - Hurlburt Field, FL May 2019 to Present Maintain and support user accounts, servers and workstations for the Information Operations Squadron School House. VMware Systems Administrator Capstone Corporation - Pensacola, FL May 2019 to Present - Migrated 46 servers at geo-separated farm to centralized data center.  - Manage 173 servers in support of NETC training.  - Identified power issue stopping ACAS scans from hitting 350 workstations. Tactical Communications Lead U.S. Air Force - Hurlburt Field, FL August 2017 to May 2019 - Establish, configure, sustain ground base communications for 15 tactical nodes including satellite, radio, and server communications.  - Configure and troubleshoot tactical airplane communications for VTC, radio and cryptography in support of 6 AFSOC missions and 2,400 combat personnel.  - Configure and manage Tactical LAN (TACLAN) with routing, ESXi, vCenter, vSAN, Windows Server 2016 for deployed locations and local exercises.  - Supported 6 exercises totaling 7 ground and 10 airborne Ku Band systems.  - Ensures compliance of 10,000 Air Force network assets across the base through the utilization of ACAS scans, analyzing results, and contacting appropriate entities to remediate vulnerabilities.  - Managed Windows Servers for 27 tenant units and configured WDS for rapid deployment of client PCs.  - Led team in base wide tech refresh of 3,000 assets and upgrades for 5,000 assets to meet DoD Mandated Windows 10 Migration window. Enterprise Network Technician U.S. Air Force, Ramstein Air Base - DE August 2014 to August 2017 Germany  - Managed 167 network assets across Europe and the Middle East, providing network and phone connectivity for more than 30,000 Air Force personnel and joint operatives.  - Discovered network vulnerability and wrote TCNO directive remediating the vulnerability, TCNO passed to 7 MOBs and affected 13,000 phone systems.  - Led team in SIPR boundary re-organization, saving Air Force funding $2.7 million in network device replacements and eliminating single points of failure.  - Built and established network boundary for new base of operations during Global War on Terrorism campaigns.  - Discovered network vulnerability and wrote TCNO directive remediating the vulnerability, TCNO passed to 7 MOBs and affected 13,000 phone systems.  - Led team in SIPR boundary re-organization, saving Air Force funding $2.7 million in network device replacements and eliminating single point of failures.  - Instructed courses on Cisco equipment for 14 new airmen to the shop, saving military funding $70k in classes.  - Managed 183 accounts through Active Directory, troubleshoot GPOs through test bench analysis.  - Managed 18 VMs through vSphere for TFTP and file servers.  - Assisted in deployment of vSphere 6.5 throughout USAFE in support of ISA intelligence project.  - STIG check/compliance of 167 routers/switches/TFTP/CUCM assets across USAFE.  - Managed ACLs for NIPR/SIPR boundary devices, securing 7 MOBs and 26 GSUs.  - Maintained VPN connectivity for deployed personnel across USAFE and PACAF.  - Maintained network separation through use of VLANs and subnets to meet STIG requirements.  - Maintained Cyber Systems Operator U.S. Air Force - Keesler AFB, MS April 2014 to August 2014 - Built and managed 15 virtual machines running Windows Server 2012.  - Built 3 exchange servers and file share drives for learning environment, aiding in 12 students' network knowledge and practice.  - Graduated top of class in foundational networking. Tier 2 Technical Support Technician Other World Computing - Woodstock, IL January 2013 to January 2014 - Technical SME for OWC products, troubleshooting OS compatibility issues, and replacement of faulty hardware.  - Published "Taming Common Demons That Can 'Possess' Your Mac" Oct 2013 for OWC Blog.  - Won employee of the month for highest customer service rating with highest email, chat, and phone calls received.  - Sustained corporate sales accounts totaling $526k. Deputy Covert Operations (DCO) Best Buy - Algonquin, IL August 2009 to January 2013 - Ran daily operations to include schedule forecasting, budgeting, ordering supplies, and customer complaints.  - Increased annual sales of Geek Squad Tech Support by 35%, recognized by district for top performing store.  - Local repair of laptops, desktops, cell phones, home theater electronics, and gaming consoles. Field Service Technician Bob the Computer Guy - New Port Richey, FL May 2009 to August 2009 Made business and house calls to repair computers, setup new computers, configure and secure networks, and install/map printers throughout the location. Education Master's in Cloud Computing Architecture University of Maryland University College August 2018 to Present Bachelor of Science in Information Systems Management in Medical Community College of the Air Force May 2018 Skills Switching, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vmware, Comptia, Data management, Exceed, Security, Budgeting, Risk management, Dod, Ts/sci, Engineer, Windows server 2012, Finance, Process implementation, Customer service, Maintenance, System Administrator, Active Directory, System Admin Additional Information Skills  -TCP/IP routing/switching  -VMware ESXi, vSphere, vCenter, vSAN, NSX, Horizon View  -Data Management  -Budgeting and finance  -Project Management  -Process Implementation  -Team leadership  -Conflict resolution  -Client assessment and analysis  -Risk management processes, analysis and matrix  -SWOT analysis  -Organization economic analysis    Joseph Hatheway  Gulf Breeze, FL 32563 / 727-364-7602 /Joseph.A.Hatheway@gmail.com  linkedin.com/in/joseph-h-863a94162/    Network/ System Engineer  Military trained and experienced Network/ System Engineer who develops, implements, and monitors network plans and assets to exceed DoD standards and regulations. Collects and analyzes network information for proactive maintenance. Experience managing multiple levels of large scale projects, including budgeting and administration. Talents include routing, switching, programming, VMware ESXi 6.7, Windows Server 2012/2016. Exceptional Customer Service. Active Government TS/SCI Clearance completed May 2014. CompTIA Security+ certified expires July 2020.