Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - EuropAssistance-USA Inc Washington, DC • Certified in Network Technology.  • Experienced in customer service.  • Detail-oriented multi-tasker with strong organization skills  • Strong troubleshooting installation and configuration skills.  • Ability to learn new technologies and procedures quickly Work Experience Systems Administrator EuropAssistance-USA Inc - Bethesda, MD September 2014 to Present • Ensured the stable operation of the in-house computer network. This includes planning, developing, installing, configuring, maintaining, supporting, and optimizing all network hardware, software, and communication links.  • Analyze and resolve end user hardware and software computer problems in a timely and accurate fashion, and provide end user training where required.  • Responsible for the day to day IT requirements of the company such as user management, trouble shooting, help and advice.  • Maintaining desktop applications, local area networks, IT security and telecommunications.  • Manage servers and services, including Active Directory, VMware VSphere and View, SharePoint, File, print, e-mail and backup servers and their associated operating systems and software.  • Deployed and configured Windows Update Services server  • Maintained access to Serv-U FTP server for company customers.  • Manage security solutions, anti-virus, and intrusion detection systems.  • Wrote PowerShell scripts for monitoring server's performance and AD status.  • Configure and manage Windows and file server cluster via Windows Failover Cluster Services.  • Maintained the VPN access for users using 'appliance SonicWALL SRA EX6000'.  • Maintained AeroHive wireless network  • Managed and implement group policies to control access to all workstations  • Managed Access to Office 365  • Primary point of contact for OKTA (Single Sign on Solution)  • Primary point of contact for Data center vendors and subcontractors  • Complete daily operational checklists and take necessary steps to prevent issues or outages.  • Provide monthly KPI metrics and trending reports.  • Comprehensive system and service monitoring using automated tools (Manage Engine's Opmanger)    • Administer all equipment, hardware and software upgrades and manage patches for all desktops servers and other devices on the network.  • Manage and/or provide guidance to junior members of the team.  • Knowledge of applicable data privacy practices and laws.  • Practice network asset management, including maintenance of network component inventory and related documentation and technical specifications information.  • Work service requests and help desk tickets on a daily basis.  • Sonicwall VPN Firewall.  • Varonis File monitoring server Systems Administrator American Cadaster - Herndon, VA September 2010 to June 2014 • Supported the server infrastructure through maintenance, repair and administration of all server hardware and software operating systems in the AmCad operations environment. day-to-day operational support for primarily Microsoft based IT infrastructure including Windows 2012 Server and Active Directory.  • Core responsibilities included data center administration: Server, Workstation and LAN support, patch management, deployment, Installation, configuration, administration of local servers, workstations, and associated peripheral equipment. Administration of Backup Exec. VMware, FTP/WSFTP server, Citrix server.  • Administration of Microsoft Technologies including, Exchange, SCOM, Active Directory, SQL Server, DNS and DHCP.  • Managed Microsoft SharePoint server 2010.  • Maintained backup using "Symantec BackupExec".  • Managed exchange server 2010.  • Managed the 3CX VOIP telephone system.  • VMware Administrative tasks related to provisioning and configuring new VMs.  • Troubleshot/repair system issues.  • Analyzed and troubleshot the server logs and tracks the nature and resolution of problems via SCOM.  • Performed other systems administration such as backups, server builds, OS troubleshooting among other activities.  • Performed constant enhancements in the areas of automation, security, efficiency.  • Created and documented all actions, practices, procedures and processes.  • Installed and configured System Center Operations Manager 2010 server.  • Configured and managed Windows and SQL Server cluster via Windows Failover Cluster Services.  • Installed SQL Server 2012 and configured the AlwaysOn feature.  • Upgraded CRM from 4.0 to CRM 2011.  • Installed System Center Service Manager 2010.  • Migrated TFS (Team Foundation Server) From 2007 to TFS2010. Helpdesk Team Lead DMDC Defense Manpower Data Center/ EDS - Alexandria, VA November 2007 to September 2010 Worked as a Team Lead for a group of 7 technicians, providing level 1 technical support for the Defense Manpower Dataenter (DMDC) internal employees, responsibilities include:    • Provided high level, technical support in a team environment to 500+ users.  • ACD Administrator - Maintained and Monitored ACD queue for coverage. Ensure there is coverage at all times for heavy call loads.  • Assisted with handling unsatisfied and irate customers,  • Built confidence in technicians on call handling and customer relationship  • Participated to weekly team meetings with team members, and with the customer 'DMDC' for performance reviews and update on processes and methods.  • Responsible for staff hiring, staff retention, assigning work, approving leave, evaluating employee performance.  • Reviewed processes and procedures for compliance and accuracy.  • Maintained Good documentation on reports and procedures.  • Used "Computer Associates (CA) Service Desk" call tracking system to update open calls and/or escalate problems, and to distribute software, as directed by client procedures  • Participated to the Voice Over IP upgrade project; the upgrade consists of upgrading the CCM system from version 3.2 to 4.7 and the ICM from 4.2 to 7.0 including installing new hardware, designing, planning and configuring the new ICM components.  • Installed and cabled network component; switches, patch panels, cables, LAN Jacks  • ActivClient, CoreStreet Client, Defense Connect Online, Cisco VPN client. Server Engineer US DOL -OSHA /Quality Technology, Inc - Washington, DC June 2005 to May 2007 Participate in day to day operations of US DOL -OSHA NOC. Responsibilities include but are not limited to:  • Create/ Delete user accounts.  • Maintaining backup using Veritas BackupExec & Veritas Netbackup.  • Monitor servers' performance and maintain high availability.  • Troubleshoot domain wide problems.  • Participate in special projects & create Action Plans.  • Configure install, and patch servers, worked with Compaq, HP and Dell servers, Win2K3, Win2000 and WinNT systems.  • Worked with Symantec Ghost to create various images for servers and apply them, for a massive server deployment project.  • Worked with VMWare GSX servers.  • Worked on new OSHA-LAB design/ Setup  • Using "Remedy Support" call tracking system to update open calls and/or escalate problems as directed by client procedures Network Administrator Army Center For Substance Abuse Program - Rockville, MD November 2002 to June 2005 • Responsible for supporting ACSAP (Army Center For Substance Abuse Programs) Network; Servers and workstations.  • Administration of 6 Windows 2000 Advanced Servers.  • Maintained Backup for servers using VERITAS Backup Exec    Senior Support Analyst L3 Government Services, Inc Rockville, MD    • Answering the Customer Service Hotline on a Tier 3 level consisting of over 8000 clients to support Windows 95/98/NT 4 operating systems, connecting to LAN using Novel client 3.2 and some Citrix Mainframe / Dial Up Connections for Montgomery Co. Police Department, Public Schools, and also County Executive Officials.  • Demonstrated Technical proficiency to troubleshoot and diagnose problems (telephone, desk visit Hardware and Software), on various applications, including the MS Office Suite, IBM Personal Communications (PComm), Adobe Acrobat, Symantec Antivirus Corporate Edition, and Blackberries.  • Worked with Norton Ghost to create and apply computer images.  • Used Magic7.5 call tracking system to update open calls and/or escalate problems as directed by client procedures. Senior Support Engineer Siemens Business Services - Reston, VA July 2001 to September 2002 • Demonstrated Technical proficiency to troubleshoot and diagnose problems (telephone, desk visit) on various applications, including the MS Office Suite, Lotus Notes R5, Windows, and Corporate proprietary applications. Install/troubleshoot via remote control software; Tivoli, VNC  • Administering LAN/WAN connectivity issues. Novell, TCP/IP environment.  • Worked with Various call tracking systems; Clarify, Power Help, Lotus-Based, and other corporate proprietary call tracking systems (i.e. CTTS) Help Desk Analyst RCN Communications - Springfield, VA January 2000 to June 2001 • Provided global support in a 24x7 call center, daily call volume 1500calls/day.  • Provided IE, Netscape, outlook express, troubleshooting, diagnostic and configuration  • Assisted remote users and pinpointed their dialup and Cable modem connection problems.  • Track and update open calls and/or escalate problems as directed by client procedures Education Certification Helpdesk Institute Skills System Admin, Linux, Active Directory, System Administrator, Vmware