Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Altarum Gaithersburg, MD CISSP: Expected 1/2020  Security + Sy0-501 Certified (2018)  PAN OS 8.0 ACE Certified (2018)    Hardworking young man and team player looking to join a great team in the field of information technology and cybersecurity Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Altarum - Washington, DC June 2017 to Present Metro Area    Youngest member of companies Security Assessment Group, which meets  weekly to discuss the company's information security posture. Vet various  companies for annual/bi-annual penetration testing administration of PII/PHI  events. Extensive review sessions going over policies and SSP's. Extensive  review and familiarity of the NIST 800-53 Publication.    Network Administrator who handles:    Active Directory Management  Aerohive HiveManager NG  BlueJeans Rooms Administration, configuration and deployment  Firewall Administration (Palo Alto and Crowdstrike)  VPN Administration (Palo Alto)  Router and Switch Administration (Cisco/Juniper)  Wireless System Administration (Aruba)  LAN systems management (Cogent)  Server OS and Network Maintenance (monthly/quarterly/after hours)  Unitrends Enterprise Backup  Virtualization Administration (VMware)  Storage (Kaminario)  Cisco VOIP/Skype Cloud PBX Phone Administration  MPU and Cyclade management and implementation (Avocent)  Front and Backend Apple Management.    Additionally, Provide outstanding end-user/tier 1 support for both hardware and software issues on both a PC and Macs including such technologies as:    Windows 7-10  MacOS  iOS  watchOS Technical Specialist Apple November 2016 to June 2017 Apple Store, Montgomery Mall    Driving sales and providing product support.  Exemplify superior Apple knowledge and expertise in troubleshooting and repairs.  Work with the vendor to resolve complex problems and ensures customer  satisfaction.  Strong communication skills in which you can converse freely and comfortably with small groups and individual customers.  Assess customers' sales and/ or support needs when they arrive, provide  solutions and deliver great customer experiences in any environment, and be  invigorated by constant personal interaction.  Repair flexibility (diagnosis, MRI) to regularly rotate through different technical  specialties and skill sets.  Superior Apple knowledge and expertise in troubleshooting and repairs.  Work with the vendor to resolve complex problems and ensures customer  satisfaction.  Keep current on Apple and computer product changes or new product  launches.  Other duties as assigned Systems Support Engineer GSOT Consulting Inc February 2013 to June 2017 Washington D.C. Metro Area    Duties Include: Troubleshoot a variety of technical and non-technical customer  issues on Windows7 and Mac OS X, Diagnose and troubleshoot desktop/  laptop system, printer and operating system problems in for a Mac and Windows environment, Manage software licenses, Setup and deployment of new user hardware using images, Ensure requests are completed based  on SLAs in Customer Support and Helpdesk Software (Parature), Provide  backup and recovery support, Manage and provide technical support for Mobile Devices and Apps, Provide monthly reports on trends in monitoring and  analyzing incoming calls, tickets, problems and support requests in developing  FAQs and Knowledgebase. Video Producer/Technician GSOT Consulting Inc March 2014 to October 2016 Responsible for creating all promos and commercials to be aired on various  national networks (NBC,  CSPAN, WETA)    -Responsible for writing, scheduling and all pre production, production and post production aspects for  GWMV video needs such as:  Independently created historical videos  Internal Promotional videos: Whiskey Sales, Plant Sales, New Farm Animal  Arrivals  External Promotional videos for outside networks  Various educational videos: Benedict Arnold and Washington, Newburgh  Conspiracy  -Produced all the video for the site Virtual Tour: www.mountvernon.org/  virtualtour  -Created budget for both the New Media Production sector as well as the Library Production Sector  -Responsible for setting up and live streaming book talks with various scholars  and authors  -Responsible for setting up (lighting, camera and microphone) interviews with various authors, politicians  as well as donors and various historical experts.  -Lead producer on promoting various events, sales, campaigns and web series  -Creator of popular web series "Washington's Big Day Out." as well as upcoming "Man on the Street"  series currently in production  -Capturing all historical and important events on the estate: Purple Heart  Ceremonies, Slave Memorial  Tribute as well as Live band events and other events involving the capturing of public events  -Responsible for updating and maintaining the picture archive for new products  in our Pavilion as well as gift shop  -Responsible for archiving various video and images throughout the Estate. Education Masters in Film and Art Howard University 2008 to 2011 B.S in Television/Film Production St. John's University 2004 to 2008 Skills Linux, System Administrator, Active Directory, System Admin Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/willcotton