Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Orleans Parish Civil District Court New Orleans, LA Work Experience Systems Administrator Orleans Parish Civil District Court October 2015 to Present I am responsible for the networking infrastructure of five sites across the city of New Orleans. Two of those contain enterprise level data centers, employing HPe's hyper-converged infrastructure. I also administrate our DR site where we replicate our production environment to on a daily basis. Between the three locations I am responsible for ninety servers.     My oversight responsibilities include a help tech team of three and two developers. I report directly to the CIO.    Tech I regularly work with:  • Routing and Switching: Cisco Catalyst 3750, Aruba 2920, 2930f, and 2930m, Dell N4032  • Security tools: SonicWALL NSA3600, PfSense, Barracuda Email Security Gateway solution, Security Onion  • Virtualization: Vsphere 6.0, Vcenter 6.0, Hyper-V 2012R2  • Server Hardware: HPe HC380 Proliant Gen9  • Storage: Dell Equallogic and a Synology DS1813+  • O/S: Windows Server 2008 - 2016, Ubuntu 18.04, Windows 7 and 10  • Microsoft Services: AD/DS, Certificate Authority, Remote Desktop Gateway, Exchange 2016 (on prem) and Skype for Business 2015 (on prem)  • Backup, Recovery, and Replication: Veeam Backup&Replication Enterprise  • Wireless Technologies: Aruba APs connected to Dell Power Connect controller  • Other: Spiceworks for help desk. Jira for project management, WhatsUpGold, Zabbix, and Veeam One for network and infrastructure monitoring IT Consultant New Orleans Society of Infectious Disease Awareness - New Orleans, LA October 2014 to Present Odyssey House partnered with NOSIDA to launch a community radio station called 102.3 WHIV-LP New Orleans (www.whivfm.org). OHL furnished the station with both the space and equipment needed to run a live radio station. As the IT Manager I was brought in to install all network and office infrastructure (Run Cat5e lines, install switch and wireless access points, install desktop computers and other peripheral devices, provide VPN access to broadcast remotely) for their launch date on December 1, 2014. Since then I have provided ongoing consulting and technical support on a break/fix basis. IT Manager Odyssey House Louisiana, Inc - New Orleans, LA October 2012 to October 2015 Odyssey House is a non-profit organization that works in the field of substance about treatment and services. As the IT Manager for Odyssey House Louisiana I oversaw the daily operations of the department and reported directly to the Chief Executive Officer. OHL had up to six sites across the city I was responsible for administrating during my tenure.    Tech I regularly worked with:  • Routing and Switching: Cisco Catalyst 3750, Cisco 1800 routers  • Firewall and Security: Cisco ASA 5500 and 5510, OpenDNS for content filtering  • Server Hardware: Dell R610, a few different models from the Dell PowerEdge line  • O/S: Windows Server 2008 - 2012R2, Ubuntu 16.04, Windows XP and 7, OSX  • Cloud Services: Google Apps and Office 365  • Backup: Carbonite cloud backup services  • Wireless Technologies: Cisco standalone Aps  • Other: Spiceworks for Help Desk, Allscripts for Electronic Health Records software.    My oversight responsibilities included a DBA, Network Technician, and a Project Manager. I also worked closely with the CFO to plan the IT budget every year for the whole organization. Network Technician Odyssey House Louisiana, Inc - New Orleans, LA June 2011 to October 2012 After a period of several months of outsourcing their IT Department Odyssey House hired me as their only IT professional. The initial job description was "Computer Technician" and that quickly turned into a Network Technician role as I needed to build out the layer two and three infrastructure for the organization. At the time the organization was over 150 employees over 5 locations and my role was to provide technical support to everybody. I reported directly to the Chief Executive Officer. PC Technician Hope International University - Fullerton, CA January 2009 to July 2010 This was a standard entry level position at the university. My responsibilities were desktop imaging, deployment, and maintenance, responding to help desk tickets, and inventory management. Education PhD in humanities University of Aberdeen Present technical education Southern New Hampshire University Skills System Administrator, Active Directory, Vmware, Security, Exchange Server, Skype for Business Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/drkaristai