Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - BryPhil® Enterprises New Hope, MN IT professional with more than 4 years of progressive expertise in supporting and optimizing peripherals, workstations, operating systems, networks, servers, software, and hardware. Including installation, configuration, and preventative maintenance. Provide service focused technical support and system administrator support onsite and remotely. Completed all projects on schedule while leading a team of technicians on a day-to-day basis. Exceptional communication skills. Able to quickly grasp and adapt to new concepts, technologies, and environments. Work Experience Systems Administrator BryPhil® Enterprises - Blaine, MN January 2016 to Present • Servers and virtual machine virtualization.  • Server Hardening, availability and maintenance.  • Perform hardware and software maintenance,  • Administration of Microsoft exchange server and office 365  • Building Windows Domains / Domain Controllers  • Active Directory Users & Computers  • Group Policy Management.  • Install and/or upgrade Microsoft Operating System.  • Experience with Microsoft Server Administration  • Assist clients with the installation, configuration and ongoing usability of desktop computers and server's peripheral equipment and software.  • Install software, patches, updates on desktops, and laptops.  • Physical setting up of computers, servers, software System installation for various computer applications and programs.  • Troubleshoot network, software, and printing problems.  • Performs virus detection and removal.  • Documenting software usage procedures, process of installation of operating system.  • Basic firewall configuration.  • Troubleshoot and resolve advanced desktop, server, and network issues. Able to handle most user and server issues before finding it necessary to escalate.  • Work with vendors to solve higher level client outages including Microsoft and Symantec.  • Maintain network and server integrity for over 400+ clients while ensuring company objectives.  • Provided customer service for 600+ clients while ensuring company objectives are met  • Articulated client's technical issues and determined the most effective manner to resolve each issue.  • Implemented and supported users in domain environments within active directory.  • Troubleshoot and diagnosed active directory permission issues and provided resolutions  • Handles all user creations, modifications and deactivations.  • Engages in research and in-depth troubleshooting to resolve multiple software and hardware issues effectively  • Verifies that suggested solutions effectively resolve the users' problems through verbal or email follow up.  • Communicate with Third party support to resolve specific software issues  • Handling of network appliances including switches, routers, access points and wireless controllers. Network Administrator BryPhil® Enterprises - Blaine, MN February 2015 to December 2015 Microsoft Windows OS ? Mac OS ? Android OS ? IOS ? Microsoft Office Suite ?VPN Remote Software ? Ticket tracking software (Service Desk Manager / Service Now)  • In-depth understanding of network management and software.  • Handle everything IT related. From Networking to basic Hardware to Servers and everything in between  • Monitored/maintained; Windows Server 2012R2 and windows 2016.  • Used TCP/IP tool for creating connections to clients.  • Pro-actively monitor security events such as logs, viruses, firewalls and manage carrier tickets for service outages.  • Break/Fix Hardware and Software experience.  • Respond to end user inquiries about applications and software.  • Troubleshoot and resolve trouble tickets and tasks as assigned  • Analyzed and document systems and services  • Study and implement management software  • Was involved in initial handling of network appliances including switches, routers, access points and wireless controllers.  • Was responsible for technical support during architecture deployment.  • Provided hardware, software and networking technical support for 5000+ users. Nursing Assistant Mercy Hospital Allina Health, MN October 2008 to January 2015 Responsibilities: Assist patients of ages with ADLS (activities of daily living) throughout their hospital visit and or stay in all care areas (Emergency room, cardiac, surgical, medical, neurology, oncology, mental and behavioral) units through good customer service principles, with accurate documentation on patient care via epic, safe matches, tracking belongings of all patient's while maintaining high standard of HIPAA rules Education Hennepin Technical College - Brooklyn Park, MN Skills Technical Support (3 years), Windows (9 years), Networking (4 years), Microsoft Office (6 years), Mac (3 years), Active Directory (3 years), Windows 7 (7 years), Vmware (3 years), Customer Service, security (3 years), Sales