Systems Administrator (Contractor) <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (Contractor) Systems Engineer/Admin (servers/LANS/Network) - STARSEND CREATIONS & 5 STREET MEDIA Parker, CO EXECUTIVE SUMMARY    • Network Administration, Exchange Server (messaging engineering), info structure architecture  • Documentation, procedures, disaster recovery, system development, project management, data analysis, social media (Facebook, Twitter, HTML, Linkden, WordPress, Javascript, SQL).  • Web/software development, html coding, ASP, database (access) SharePoint server, C#, Visual Studio.NET, C+.  • Standardization and de-cluttering of systems, databases, networks. Coordination of systems implementation and re-engineering – Windows Servers 2003 – 2012 R2 (hardware and software) – VMWare 6.0, virtualization.  • Access database creation, changes, reporting, coding. SQL database admin. Coding – changes and updates experience (SharePoint – Portlets, web access, web report generation, metrics, customization, Access database front end).  • Remedy development, network systems engineering, infrastructure development/implementation/architecture  • Web development, systems testing, development, implementation, admin (SharePoint, WordPress)  • Film Production – digital marketing – weekly blog writing/posting – storyboards – social media marketing development   • Former Manager at Raytheon/Buckley AFB endorses “I would rate Javana highly and would not hesitate to consider her for an opportunity to work with me. One of her biggest strengths is the breadth of experience she brings to a project and her willingness to tackle new things.” – Joe Butler  • Retired Air Force Major endorses “I can honestly say that she goes the extra mile to get the job done and pays careful attention to details along the way. If you're looking for an intelligent, and dedicated employee, you need not look any further.” – David Varner  • Service Desk Client endorses “Mrs. Richardson, at the Vectrus OMDAC-SWACA at RCC was far and away one of the most helpful and efficient civilians I have requested services from. She has a 'no problem is too big' mindset and always puts forth100% effort on anything that I ask.” Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator (Contractor) Vectrus Systems Corporation - Kuwait City, Kuwait January 2019 to July 2019 ·   Responsible for account creation/update/extension/deletion within AD and SharePoint databases.   ·   User account and server updates, movement, changes.  ·   ASI creation, update and processing throughout the AOR.   ·   Remedy, SharePoint and Email updates and ticket processing, along with documentation, maintenance and update of daily, weekly and monthly service statistic reports. Daily shift change, unassigned ticket and server maintenance reports. Client communications, weekly status with AD, SharePoint and Network Engineering teams.   ·   ASI reporting, Email provisioning, account creation and updates with DISA online database and reporting systems, communication with clients across the Middle East AOR.   ·   Development and documentation of improvement processes within database, Remedy/NETCOM, and email systems utilization.  ·   Remedy problem solving and input to NETCOM regarding potential application improvements.  ·   Submission of improvement documentation for various SharePoint and other database applications. Publisher/Project Manager/Writer-Director-Producer/ Systems Admin (Contractor) STARSEND CREATIONS & 5 STREET MEDIA - West Covina, CA January 2006 to January 2019 91792  Email: javana10@aol.com  720-939-8787    • Responsible for development of company's web-site utilizing Windows 2008, SharePoint 2010, Exchange 2010 and  Exchange OMA/OWA.  • Daily responsibilities include: project management, project acquisitions, all aspects of daily business, Windows NT  network, communication and backup systems, email and other computer systems used in daily processes, website  design and creation.  • Consulted on a project with Microsoft Corporation and the 2001 Top Of The World Expedition, to develop and implement  remote access in the field, used by scientists and geologists that allowed remote communication from the Arctic Ocean  region with the Internet via PocketPC and Iridium Satellite phones.  • Author, editor and designer of seven non-fiction books. Senior Project Manager - Consultant OLIVE SOFTWARE, INC March 2012 to June 2012 Short Term Contract)  • Responsible for CRM, Project Management, and Client Relations on all newspaper reader application generation for approximately 600 daily newspapers and Universities including applications developed for E-Edition, iPad, iPhone and  Smart Phone versions of daily newspapers and archival of scholarly works. Initialized database updates and performed  Google Analytic report generation as well as production updates and client interaction and reporting. Windows 2008  installations/upgrades. Sr Systems Software Engineer, Software Development, Windows- Systems/Network Admin, Web Master NORTHROP GRUMMAN - TASC July 2003 to April 2006 - On site at Buckley AFB  • Participated in SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) research study for visualization application development project.  Installed Windows 2003, .NET architecture and SharePoint, performed related tests with XML, SOAP and SOA related  architectures participating on a limited basis with JAVA visualization product/rich client application.  • Responsible for reconfiguration of large network containing 25+ file servers and all related equipment and Windows  2003 operating systems. Systems Admin for Windows 2003 server farm, including SQL Servers, SharePoint Server,  Web clusters, Windows Patch updates, replicated backup system. Performed SharePoint website creation utilizing lists,  web pages, web parts, portlets, document libraries, connections to other systems. Wrote and implemented design  requirements to move legacy web site into a SharePoint Portal environment. Created pert charts and designed multiple  templates to facilitate legacy data move to new system and created procedure documentation of legacy, new and updated procedures as changes were made. Performed document library creation and update functions, reorganization of multiple document libraries and form repositories.  • Responsible for server system baseline audit, info gathering (5 systems/50 plus servers) and all reconstitution,  procedure and system configuration documentation/drawings. Responsible for Windows XP baseline installations and software updates. Performed some UNIX based activities, file updates, automated backup functions and procedures.  • Performed Change Management functions related to new and updated software build releases and discrepancy  reporting. Performed multiple OS hardware inventory and build of inventory Access Database for information update and computer movement tracking. Performed multiple code changes within Access Database data structure.  • Responsible for network change coordination regarding server movement from segment to segment, including all  facilities requirements, address and routing change coordination and software updates.  • Coordinated system integration functions associated with incoming and outgoing systems, rack changes, hardware  replacements, etc., including all required start up and shutdown procedures, update and reconstitution documentation  related to the activities. Created and updated planning and task checklist documents for network infrastructure workflow  procedures and server/application disaster recovery.  • Responsible for coordination and tracking of web site changes and hierarchy retools, Remedy AR System updates and programming changes, documentation and maintenance.  • Utilized C# programming via Microsoft Visual Studio.NET to create forms and intuitive web based applications.  Performed system application training to multiple users and groups, including web based applications and SharePoint  web site best practices. Senior Systems Engineer, Project Management, Web Master RAYTHEON SYSTEMS COMPANY May 1998 to May 2001 Responsible for NPOESS Project Planning on update of operating systems, VPN project planning/design/implementation,  firewalls, enterprise servers, router configuration. Cern certified software, PGP implementation, Email testing, engineering,  -planning-deployment, office automation, system architecture development, strategic planning, project management, help  desk automation for 5000+ end user network.  1350 Oahu Street  West Covina, CA 91792  Email: javana10@aol.com  720-939-8787    Completed Remedy HelpDesk design, schema development/customization, Remedy company-wide implementation as project manager and developer, Remedy web server customization and programming including HTML and Java script and  Visual Studio, all project documentation, web design, web site server implementation, SQL, Exchange and other email  server installation and operating systems on time, with all related documentation, within budget. Development of web  based products and Windows and NT related software within the Microsoft Windows and NT operating system environment  utilizing MS FrontPage, Java script, ASP, C+, C# and related Visual Studio product suite. Experience with UNIX  environment related to development of web based B2B systems.    Other capabilities/responsibilities: Design, engineer, implement and maintain local and wide area networks utilizing  PC/RISC/Macintosh software/hardware and Windows NT and or Novell Netware. Design, engineer and implement LAN- based and multiple system electronic mail systems. Set up and develop Internet web sites for clients. Web-page  development, including HTML coding, graphic design and content creation. Set up and configure web servers utilizing  Microsoft Windows NT Server and Internet Information Server. Worked with Access and FoxPro, Oracle and beta tested  all new Microsoft back and front office products.    U S WEST MARKETING RESOURCES  INFORMATION MANAGEMENT - SENIOR WINDOWS & MACINTOSH NETWORK/ SYSTEMS ENGINEER    • Author of Local Area Network User Training Manual inter-company manual that encompasses all facets of utilizing  various types of equipment resident on the company LAN/WAN, for use by network users.  • Installed and developed test bed system, development and implementation plans for and including multiple  Windows NT domains and servers, Novell Netware servers, E-mail systems, E-mail gateways, calendaring and office automation products for 4,000 end users Developed connectivity for up to 50,000 end users at US West.  • Managed projects associated with E-mail, Novell server upgrades, Windows NT network implementation, Mac  connectivity, PC Mail deployment, Scheduling and Calendar software.  • Managed an Appletalk network re-engineering project allowing more efficient access to Novell file servers in  Denver, Omaha and San Diego via Macintosh computers.  • Managed and tested beta software, including Windows NT 3.51/4.0, Windows 2000 and 2003, Message Exchange  4.0/4.1/4.5/5.0, Microsoft Office. Education Associate in Arts Colorado Film School Associate in Arts in Paralegal Community College of Aurora Associate in Arts in Management Columbia College Skills PROJECT MANAGEMENT (10+ years), EXCHANGE (10+ years), MICROSOFT SHAREPOINT (10+ years), REMEDY (5 years), REMOTE ACCESS (10+ years), WINDOWS SERVERS (10+ years), VMWare (1 year), DATABASE ADMINISTRATION (7 years), SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT (2 years), System Administrator, Active Directory, System Admin Certifications/Licenses MCSE June 2006 to Present Additional Information Operating Systems: Desktop Publishing & Video: Editing Software:  Macintosh Quark Xpress Final Cut Pro 7 & 10  Windows NT-2008/XP/Vista/7 PageMaker Motion  Workstation & Server Apps In-Design Compressor  Novell Netware iMovie  Multiple Protocols Web Design Tools: DVD Studio Pro  UNIX/LINUX HTML, ASP, C# After Effects  Java, Javascript  Electronic Mail Systems: Microsoft Frontpage Production Equipment:  Gateway applications (SMTP) Microsoft Visual Studio.NET Tungsten: ARRI, Mole, Open  Microsoft Exchange Visual InterDev/C+ HMI, Kino Flo, LED's  Microsoft Mac Mail MS SharePoint 2003/2010 Shotgun, Boom, Mic/Lav systems  Microsoft PC Mail WordPress Mixers, Zoom  Various Email Gateway Apps. Multiple Hosting Services Jibs, Dollies, Glidecam, Monitors  SMTP, UUENCODE, MIME Project Planning Applications:  Lotus Notes, .CCMail Graphics Applications: Claris Impact  Remote Access/802.11 net Adobe Photoshop MacProject Pro  Premiere Microsoft Project  Database Applications: Streamline Visio  Microsoft Foxpro Illustrator Other Applications:  Microsoft Access Fractal Painter MS Office  Dbase/MS SQL Cameras: CLM/DOORS  FileMaker Pro Sony HC7 PGP Security  Oracle Sony HD FX7 HP Openview  Panasonic HMC40 Exceed    SKILLS    • Documentation, procedures, system development, project management.  • Web development, html coding, ASP, database (access) SharePoint server, C#, Visual Studio.NET, ODBC.  • Standardization of systems, databases, networks. Coordination of systems implementation and re-engineering  (hardware and software).  • Access database creation, changes, reporting, coding. SQL database admin. Coding - changes and updates  experience (Web access, web report generation, metrics, data uplink/downlink, Access databases).  • Remedy development, network systems engineering, infrastructure development/implementation/architecture  • Web development, systems testing, development, implementation (Sharepoint, WordPress)  • Film Production - digital marketing - weekly blog writing/posting - social media marketing development - crowd-funding  campaign development