Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Leadership Traverse City, MI Key role in the build of Cerner's Enterprise Master Person Index (EMPI) from 9 major facilities.  (Enterprise Master Person Index is an online structured repository of demographic information that creates  a Master Person Identifier (MPI) by coordinating and reconciling incoming demographic information from  Cerner and non- Cerner registration systems).    Implemented Cerner's Supply Chain ROL (Re-Order List) for the surgery department of CAH. This will  automate the re-order process for all surgical supplies that are not in stock in the hospital warehouse. This  ROL process is activated by supplies that have been used on Cerner's SurgiNet documentation application.    Implemented dynamic patient tracking system, integrated inventory and surgery scheduling system. Trained  staff in use and maintenance of system.    Requested and justified capital equipment needs for the department. Negotiated capital quotes from vendors  valued over 4 million dollars annually.    Maintained and oversaw process for new supplies through Value Analysis Committee.    Responsible for creating and maintaining statistical reports for surgery director and other departments  throughout the hospital.    Continually worked with leadership team and management to implement cost saving initiatives and reduction of  supplies through better utilization.    Responsible for maintaining and reviewing an annual operational budget and reporting to finance on a monthly  basis. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Cerner's Supply Chain ROL March 2014 to Present Currently working on the implementation of Cerner's Supply Chain ROL (Re-Order List) for the surgery  department of CAH. This will automate the re-order process for all surgical supplies that are not stock in the hospital warehouse. This ROL process is activated by supplies that have been used on Cerner's SurgiNet  documentation application. This will be the first of a two part implementation.  Cerner's Surgical Case Tracking System Administrator/Purchasing Agent McLaren-Northern Michigan December 1992 to Present Department team lead for the implementation and coordination of the Cerner Surgery scheduling system,  patient tracking and inventory management system.    - Responsible for maintaining an annual operational budget of over 6 million dollars. Reporting to finance on a monthly bases.    - Reviewed the request and entered into StrataCap system the justifications of all the capital budget needs for the department.    - Manage and maintain the process of new products introduced into the surgery area through the Value  Analysis Committee.    - Responsible for creating and maintaining multiple operational and statistical reports used throughout all  department of the hospital. Reports that consist of surgical utilization, financial statistics and materials  reporting.    - Audit and maintain patient charging process for all surgical items.    - Coordinate with materials management and finance to initiate and complete and finalize physical inventory.    - Oversight and management of human tissue products for the surgery department, management of freezer and refrigerator temperatures through web based computer system; meeting the requirements of the Federal  Government and Joint Commission on the handling and storage of human tissue.     - Responsible for implementation of a system for a more accurate management of devices/implants. This allowed the facility to save money. Materials Consultant Self Emmployed - Petoskey, MI March 2015 to May 2018 Comprehensive database management of current Paragon materials management system. Improved materials management processes through the optimization of current system functionality. - Project lead for the implementation of new distributorship, working with staff to implement required product GPO's. Application Analyst McLaren-Northern Michigan September 2014 to June 2015 The Clinical Applications Analyst position is responsible for providing functional and technical support to a variety of clinical customers. This position is responsible for clinical system support including but not  limited to normal maintenance of business, upgrades, system maintenance, and project management. The  individual is responsible for the analysis, recommendations for corrective action and resolution of problems within the software application.    The Clinical Applications Analyst works as part of a team of IT professionals in a unique, exclusively health  care environment. As a member of this team, I offer strategic technical support to assure the highest level of customer satisfaction. The teams' focus is to utilize critical thinking to evaluate and resolve customer  issues in a creative and timely manner. Team members are expected to be become the experts for their  application and have strong knowledge of clinical business processes supported by team. Team members are also expected to address extremely complex, critical customer issues. Clinical customers supported by the team include all nursing areas and facility wide order entry. Surgical Services Logistics Specialist McLaren-Northern Michigan January 2014 to August 2014 Coordinated and educated with management and staff the current functions of Cerner applications that will  help improve processes and work flow.    Audited and maintained patient charging process for all surgical items.    Utilized GPO contract buying and cost containment measures whenever possible.    Maintained overall inventory control for accurately processing orders, replenishment's, returns, credits and inventory discrepancy resolution.    Promoted and ensured customer satisfaction through prompt identification and resolution of customer  complaints, problems and issues.    Responsible for creating and maintaining multiple operational and statistical reports as assigned.    Assisted with set up of new items, updates current items and inactivates items from item master as needed.    Served as a resource to the OR Manager and coordinators in the use and purchase of supplies, instruments and power equipment.    Assisted with the capital budget process.    Initiated and assisted with the Surgical Department's annual physical inventory.    Maintained billing charge master with appropriate coding and price information. Purchasing Agent McLaren-Northern Michigan April 1992 to December 1992 1. Responsible for all purchases in the surgery department, maintenance department and other ancillary  departments.  2. Meet with department managers to review monthly purchases.  3. Review with accounts payable for all purchasing variances.  4. Meets with vendor to negotiate pricing for supplies.    Projects  Cerner's Supply Chain ROL Implementation Education Business Administration and Management, General North Central Michigan College 1981 to 1981 Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), Cerner, Leadership Training (10+ years), Excel, Inventory, Purchasing, AS400, Procurement, Microsoft Excel, Outlook Certifications/Licenses Cerner Fundamentals Present Additional Information Skills & Expertise  Microsoft Office  Inventory Management  Database Management  Software Documentation  Healthcare  Project Management  Healthcare Information Technology  Revenue Cycle  EHR  Database Admin  Hospitals  Cerner  Leadership  CPOE  Healthcare Management