Systems Administrator 2 <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> 2 Infrastructure Engineer Riverdale, NJ Working with organizations as small as 5 users to as large at 6000 users utilizing Microsoft software and services. I excel in constructing minimal maintenance environments with optimal production through automation and design. I've worked with in-house/remote/vendor supplied teams of engineers in addition to functioning independently. Technically coordinated with Project Managers and directed IT Managers and Directors towards new technology designing cost cutting measures for increased ROI, employee effectiveness and efficiency. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator 2 The Salvation Army - West Nyack, NY January 2017 to July 2019 • Created test SharePoint 2016 farm and built out site collections showing features and productivity that could enhance communication and collaboration throughout the organization.  • Reviewed VMware 5.5 - 6.5 environments and NetApp storage systems to check for non-optimal configurations and created suggestions for enhancements with business cases.  • Team lead for active directory inter-forest migration consisting of 6000 devices and 5000 users.  • Developed Windows PowerShell scripts for process automation.   • Developed Windows PowerShell modules as re-useable tools for day-in-day out tasks as well as modules specific to projects.   • Leveraged Pester for Unit, Integration and Acceptence tests with powershell modules and scripts.   • Developed ARM templates for deployments in the Azure Cloud.  • Designed and architected Microsoft Azure Environment for migration of on-premise applications and services.   • Tracked Business Requirements and workload in Atlassian JIRA and documentation in Atlassian Confluence.   • Participated in Scrum rotations in DevOps Teams.   • Used git for code versioning along with GitHub for repo storage.  • Performed code updates to WordPress deployment.  • Converted Stored Procedures within Microsoft SQL Server Databases to SQL Server Integration Services Packages. (Minor Workload)  • Performed Code Updates to C# Web API's. (Minor Workload)    Evaluated many solutions such as Azure Devops, Nagios, Jenkins, Puppet, RunDeck and plenty of others to leverage / enhance automation and production.     • Attended Angular BootCamp from Oasis Digital. Senior Infrastructure/Implementation Engineer Profulgent Technology, LLC - Hazlet, NJ October 2015 to December 2016 Job Role: Executed all technical tasks in project implementation from assessment to follow up while performing daily addressing daily Tier 2 and Tier 3 support requests.    In House  • Decreased reported issues by 50% through strategic infrastructure design, maintenance scheduling, end user awareness/coordination and vendor management.  • Redesigned and implemented a new SharePoint Portal within Office 365's SharePoint Online.  • Created additional lists within SharePoint Designer 2013 and configured settings.  • Customized forms and values with Microsoft InfoPath 2013.  • Optimized MySQL database for on premise RMM solution, specifically Labtech.  • Secured front end IIS webserver with SSL for on premise RMM solution, specifically Labtech.  • Managed on premise RMM solutions creating additional monitors and alerts for 3rd party applications and services such as Azure Backup to monitor for failures then automatically create a ticket in ITIL system.  • Assisted CIO with process workflow and time management of technical department staff.  • Provided on call availability for Tier 2 and Tier 3 issues.  • Utilized ConnectWise, an ITIL, for accountability, documentation and decrease response time for incident resolution.    Client Facing  • Managed projects from the top down handling everything from assessment to post project documentation including, but not limited to, current infrastructure assessment, client conferences for determining needs, custom infrastructure designing, technical proposals documenting improvement of efficiency and resiliency, engineering implementation, allocation and scheduling of technical staff to perform other tasks within the project, client awareness and coordination, post cutover support, follow up coverage and post project documentation.  • Deployed Dell Servers with Windows Server 2012 R2 as Hyper-V hosts running multiple virtual machines.  • Created storage configurations to run Hyper-V virtual machines on fast storage and have associated data virtual hard drives on slower storage over iSCSI.  • Configured Hyper-V Replica for Failover of Virtual Servers to perform maintenance on production equipment with only minutes of scheduled downtime.  • Created PowerShell scripts for everything from New Server Builds configuring Hyper-V hosts, local virtual machines and their virtual hard drives to daily management tasks.  • Created documentation for customers.  • Configured password synchronization between on premise Active Directory and Microsoft Azure AD for Office 365 services.  • Configured Microsoft Azure Backup services for cloud/off-site backup.    Some projects included:  • Performed infrastructure refresh for Healthcare provider and implemented HIPAA compliance in accordance with Code for Federal Regulation Title 45 Subtitle A, Subchapter C, Part 164 and provided documentation to the client including technologies/services/applications used and current implementation of.  • Performed assessments of non-virtual environments to virtualize. Workload consisted of capacity planning, resource planning and project scoping.  • Created a custom solutions with IIS. One utilizing WebDAV over SSL to eliminate risk for satellite office machines not joined to the Active Directory Domain previously present from site-to-site VPN's and/or client VPN's. Implementation Engineer Independent Consultant - Woodbridge, NJ February 2015 to October 2015 Job Role: Work with previous clients, consulting companies and Managed Service Providers to support clients' needs through Assessment and Implementation of Infrastructure as well as Automation technologies supporting critical Line of Business Applications.    • Maintained Client Relations and performed assessments and advised on:  ? Solutions to reduce overhead  ? Scheduling for Upgrades    • Technically Implemented:  ? Solutions to reduce overhead including  * Windows Server Operating System Upgrade/Rollout/Deployments  * Server Application upgrades including Microsoft SQL Server    • Assisted as liaison with line of business application upgrades between clients and vendors.    Some project work included:  • After physical hardware failure on the Microsoft Exchange 2010 Server, I restored network functionality and services in Disaster Recovery Solution previously implemented.  • Migrated Microsoft Exchange Server 2010 machine from Disaster Recovery Solution to Cluster.  • Performed assessment of current environment then capacity planning, resource planning, project scope and overview to consolidate physical hardware into virtual environments.  • Created Hyper-V Clusters (WSFC) using iSCSI SANs, with Windows Server 2012 R2 Standard and Hyper-V Server 2021 R2.  • Implemented Cluster Aware updating for workloads running in Windows Server Failover Clusters.   • Created 90-Day, 180-Day, 9-Month plans and strategies for the client including plans for new projects to further modularize existing line of business applications and application services. Service Delivery Manager Profulgent Technology, LLC - Hazlet, NJ September 2012 to February 2015 Job Role: Assist Clients with all facets of Information Technology while managing a technical team.    • Started as a Systems Engineer and rose to a Service Delivery Manager continuing to perform technical tasks.  • Managed a team of 3 technicians and dispatched them to clients.  • Maintained client relations and scheduling to keep clients running without downtime.  • Managed billing and assisted clients with necessary purchases / upgrades while staying within their budget.  • Deployed Dell, HP and Lenovo Systems including Windows Server 2008 R2, Windows Server 2012/2012 R2, Windows 7 and Windows 8/8.1  • Performed development tasks such as creating and updating websites utilizing frontend languages including PHP, CSS, HTML, ASP and updating values in MySQL databases.  • Created managed deployments of Windows 7 and Windows 8.1 for faster workstation builds.  • Migrated and managed cloud hosted email on Microsoft Office 365 for clients and corrected any issues users were experiencing.  • Installed, configured and maintained Dell Sonicwall Unified Threat Management devices as well as Cisco PIX firewalls and routers to secure networks and prevent against network attacks.  • Utilized Connectwise, an ITIL, for accountability, documentation and decrease response time for incident resolution.    • Deployed Kaspersky for a centrally managed Anti-Virus / Anti-Spyware Solution.  • Maintained and expanded and Active Directory Infrastructure utilizing Windows Server 2008 R2 Active Directory.  • Maintained a messaging environment utilizing Exchange 2010 Enterprise for 80 Employees.  • Configured NTFS permissions and security schemes customized to the client's needs.  • Managed Virtual Infrastructure consisting of 6 Virtual Servers utilizing Microsoft Hyper-V 2008 R2 and performed Physical-to-Virtual migrations to get current physical servers off old hardware onto newer hardware.  • Created new infrastructure design utilizing Microsoft Hyper-V 2012 R2 to replace existing Microsoft Hyper-V 2008 R2 infrastructure.  • Designed a secure remote access solution utilizing SSL-VPN technology for remote access.  • Troubleshot and corrected issues with Salesforce and desktop integration.  • Managed and configured EMC Clarion Storage Area Network devices for Virtual Server Storage.  • Coordinated with 3rd party vendors and development companies for seamless implementation of new services and technologies.    • Performed an inter-forest migration for over 600 user accounts and mailboxes along with 400 machines across their 20 locations.  • Coordinated with in-house IT staff for scheduling, resource allocation and project assessments.  • Created modifications to Active Directory Schema for a smoother and quicker migration.  • Created design for WSUS architecture to be deployed for 20 different locations.  • Created design for Dell OpenManage Essentials architecture for central management and monitoring of physical Dell servers and additional Dell systems.  • Configured SQL Server 2005 server for Active Directory Migration Tool v3.0 and the Password Export Server.  • Coordinated with 3rd party vendors for additional support of priority software and services during the migration.  • Utilized Acronis Backup and Recovery 10 to perform backup's and restores of company critical information.    • Called in for a catastrophic infrastructure failure to restore business continuity and operations.  • Worked 36 straight hours until network and company operations were restored.  • Restored Active Directory functionality, over 100,000 emails and email services to functional for 100 employees over 3 sites Independent Consultant LXS Incorporated - Sewaren, NJ August 2008 to December 2014 Job Role: Assist Clients with all facets of Information Technology.    • Managed a small team of independent contractors.  • Maintained client relations and scheduling to keep clients running without downtime.  • Managed billing and assisted clients with necessary purchases / upgrades while staying within their budget.  • Deployed Systems including Windows Server 2008 R2, Windows Server 2012, Microsoft Exchange 2010.    • Deployed Symantec Endpoint Protection v11 for an Anti-Virus / Anti-Spyware Solution.  • Designed, implemented, and maintained an Active Directory Infrastructure utilizing Windows Server 2008 ADDS.  • Designed, implemented, and maintained a messaging environment utilizing Exchange 2007.  • Configured NTFS permissions and security schemes customized to the client's needs.  • Designed a secure remote access solution utilizing SSL-VPN technology.    • Assisted company with Business Plan as they entered into supporting Business Clients.  • Performed Maintenance and troubleshooting on Active Directory Networks.  • Configured various Microsoft Exchange Environments to address individual customer's needs.  • Deployed System Center Essentials to ease the overheard of in-house maintenance.  • Designed sites and forms in Office SharePoint 2007.  • Configured SQL Server 2005 server for System Center Essentials as well as SharePoint 2007.    • As a Field Engineer, performed analysis in remote offices.  • Created server and network maintenance plans for all branch offices.  • Made recommendations to minimize IT Administration overhead produced by branch offices.    • Configured and deployed mail archiving solutions such as GFI MailArchiver 6 for compliance and archiving purposes.  • Created Microsoft SQL Maintenance plans. Senior Systems Engineer Complete Solutions, LLC - Piscataway, NJ June 2008 to September 2010 Job Role: Operated independently assisting clients small and large with projects of all sizes by managing teams, coordinating with clients and performing technical implementations.    • Performing network wide hardware upgrades as well as software updates.  • Implemented technologies from ManageEngine for Remote Administration and Support.  • Created Various Group Policy's to lock down users where necessary and reduce support incidents.  • Used application packaging to roll out programs to workstations as well as registry patches to customize Windows XP workstations.  • Performed various tasks in Exchange 2003 including, creating a Disclaimer and offline defragmentation.  • Implemented a ticketing system to create an organized system for helpdesk requests.  • Setup and configured storage solutions on NAS devices and SAN's.  • Supported environments from end user's to infrastructure services.     Some projects included:  • Managed a project consisting of restructuring an Exchange Organization and minor network rebuild.  • Implemented a Sonicwall NSA 3500 as a perimeter Firewall.  • Created a High Availability Solution with Exchange Servers housing approximately 2000 mailboxes for the faculty and students.  • Designed and created a storage solution to support multiple mailbox databases with low latency/seek time.  • Implemented a Front-end / Back-end scenario utilizing RPC-over-HTTPS for secure remote access to OWA with Forms Authentication.  • Redesigned the server network with Gigabit Switches.  • Created and Provided Documentation.  • Implemented WSUS 3.0 SP1 to keep workstations up-to-date with critical patches from Microsoft.  • Worked with Deployment Solutions included RIS and WDS.  • Troubleshot issues with network services including DNS, DHCP, and SMTP. Lead Systems Engineer PC Visions - Old Bridge, NJ March 2008 to June 2008 Job Role: Assisted PC Visions' clients in the SMB market by planning, implementing, and maintaining environments customized to the client's needs and wants.    • Created an Active Directory Environment consisting of Windows Server 2008, Virtual Server 2005 SP1 R2 Enterprise Edition, and Exchange 2007.  • Implemented virtualization to minimize the physical footprint as well as cut costs on additional equipment for this small business.  • Implemented Microsoft's Volume Snapshot Service (VSS) to cut back on tape backups and also to drastically reduce the time it took for File Restores.  • Implemented WSUS 3.0 SP1 to keep workstations up-to-date with critical patches from Microsoft.  • Implemented MS Terminal Services as a remote access solution.  • Supported a Site-to-Site VPN solution with a WatchGuard Firebox.  • Performed General Help Desk functions.    • Implemented WSUS 3.0 SP1 to keep workstations up-to-date with critical patches from Microsoft.  • Enforced quotas on Exchange mailboxes to cut back on an increasing information Store.  • Created an Auto Archive solution for email using Outlook managed via GPO.  • Implemented a tape backup solution using Veritas BackupExec.  • Supported a security solution including a WatchGuard Firebox and Cloudmark Anti-Spam Services.    • Performed Server Maintenance on a multi-site Active Directory Environment consisting of 6 Domain Controllers and 6 Exchange 2003 Servers.  • Raised 3 Domain Functional Levels and 1 Forest to Server 2003 Native Mode.  • Managed multiple Veritas BackupExec instances with Quantum tape backups  • Created an Anti-Virus solution utilizing Symantec Corporate Edition and client side rollout via GPO.  • Orchestrated a Windows XP SP3 Rollout via WSUS SP1.  • Used IIS Web Services to host multiple intranet sites.  • Implemented Application Center 2000 to keep content consistent across multiple IIS 6 farms.  • Consolidated multiple instances of SQL Server 2000 and MSDE 2000 to a centralized network solution of SQL Server 2005 SP2 Express.  • Created a Print Server to minimize overhead of local printer and to be able to maintain print drivers easier.  • Managed Sonicwall Firewall's and Sonicwall VPN Devices for security and remote access.  • Maintained a Blackberry solution consisting of approximately 60 Blackberry users and Blackberry Enterprise Server 4.0.  • Performed maintenance on Exchange 2003 Services running Symantec Mail Security providing Anti-Virus and Anti-Spam Services.  • Maintained and Troubleshot instances of Terminal Services for Server 2003 and Server 2000 for centralized application use and to cut back on client side vulnerabilities.  • Troubleshot issues with DNS between 2 child domains and the root forest domain as well as other networking related issues throughout Active Directory forests. Windows Server Engineer Petersons - Lawrenceville, NJ June 2007 to December 2007 Job Role: To assist in a production Data Center migration. In addition, assisted with many in-house tasks such as application packaging and Windows Server troubleshooting.    • Brought on as an Active Directory specialist to assist in maintaining the multiple Sites.  • Built and maintained 2 new Domain Controllers, as well as look for ways to minimize and consolidate services running on old hardware.  • Coordinate with a team of 7 to actively complete critical tasks necessary to maintain production, test (QA), and development datacenters.  • Upgraded several services including SurfControl (Web Monitoring), WSUS 3, Systems Management Server 2003.  • Ensured success of Exchange 2003 SP2 Rollout to Information Store Server, OWA Servers, and SMTP Server.  • Used VB Scripting for logon scripts.  • Created and consolidated Group Policies to more effectively manage users.  • Documented fixes and solutions for all work performed.  • Performed maintenance on IIS servers to decrease downtime and outages.  • Worked with developers to upgrade and perform changes in dev and test environments.  • Assisting in asset management program.  • Worked on MS SQL Server 2000 Instances to create and manage databases for software.  • Reconfigured Oracle Application Servers running on NT 4 for development teams so they can discover ways to migrate existing databases off ancient hardware to current industry standards.  • Implemented Application Center 2000 to keep content synced across multiple IIS 6 farms.  • Continually configured Ghost Server as needed to keep new images up to date and assist help desk with quicker deployments.  • Created a 3-year storage plan for databases on MS SQL 2005 Servers with SCSI arrays sizing from 50 GB to 2 TB's.  • Redesigned existing Systems Management Server 2003 Site. Created New Packages, Collections, added scalability for SQL Server 2005 backend and scripted out Collections. Created Documentation and instructed in-house staff effective way to utilize the product.  • Rebuilt an entire test and development environment to keep up with the demanding hardware requirements of the in-house developer's line of business web applications.  • Performed General Administration, including Backup's and Maintenance on MS SQL 2000 and 2005 DB's. Systems / Network Engineer Elemental Perception - Woodbridge, NJ October 2006 to November 2007 • Deployment of Microsoft Server 2003 and associated Microsoft Software in small and medium size commercial environments. Deploying servers including, but not limited to, DNS servers, Domain Controllers, IIS application servers, Apache web servers, and various types of mail servers.  • Implemented services such as DNS, DHCP, DFS, Active Directory, SMTP and POP3, Printing and File Sharing with NTFS Permissions, Standard ACL management, Server 2003 Group Policy Management.  • Implemented Exchange Server 2003 Messaging Environments.  • Assisting Small and Medium sized Business' achieve their goals by meeting their IT needs with Project Management Coordination and also offering Disaster recovery options.  • In depth knowledge of Active Directory infrastructure including management, configuration, and troubleshooting.  • Deployed MS Sharepoint 2003 Servers for online collaboration and increasing productivity through employee interaction.  • Web hosting for clients on dedicated servers with MySQL and MS SQL Server 2005 database interaction.  • Troubleshot mail protocols including POP3, SMTP, IMAP4.  • Implementation of security services via software firewalls and port filtering at the protocol level.  • Implementation of all RAID levels for on-site redundancy and data protection.  • Created trust relationships enabling LDAP queries to propagate throughout multiple domains.  • Manage and oversee three independent contractors working in the field as well as delegating responsibilities to each of them.  • Programmed automated scripts for use in Active Directory environments and implemented in Group Policy at the domain and/or forest level for logon and security purposes that improved efficiency and security on client's workstations.  • Management of several independent contractors as well as a web development team to handle and address customers in a timely fashion. Telecommunications Technician International Discount Telecommunications Inc - Newark, NJ July 2006 to June 2007 • Analyzing, investigating, and troubleshooting T1/E1 trunk issues on DMS, IPIC, SONUS, and PTT trunk groups via UNIX terminals and an array of web-based tools.  • Retrieving and analyzing Average Seizure Rates, Call Data Records, Trunk Reports, Looping Issues, etc.  • Performed in-depth technical troubleshooting via Nortel DMS switches consisting of Continuity (ICOT), Wink, 'Slips and Errors' analyzing. Duties also include live phone line testing in order to isolate and solve both quality of service and technical issues.  • Executing all data analysis for carriers/customers, regarding both inbound and outbound traffic in order to troubleshoot outages and quality related issues.  • Actively work with customers and vendors in order to stabilize routes.  • Coordinate communications between technical engineers and commercial representatives.  • Worked closely alongside engineers to troubleshoot and resolve technical issues. Education None in Technical Training - Microsoft MCSE Track New Horizons Computer Learning Centers - Iselin, NJ July 2007 to October 2007 Skills Active Directory (10+ years), Exchange Server 2007, 2010 (5 years), Network Administration (8 years), Server Administration (10+ years), Infrastructure Design (7 years), Powershell (6 years), Azure (4 years) Links http://www.mycertprofile.com/Profile/4925766907 https://github.com/brisexton Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) June 2016 Additional Information Currently studying for Microsoft Certification: Microsoft Certified Azure Administrator