Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Gotech Systems Alexandria, VA ? More than 6 years of experience as a Desktop Support technician with work duties in Desktop Support and Help desk Support Management including Systems administration.  ? Capable of defining, deploying/executing, and monitoring risk management framework, compliance, and information security programs.  ? A resourceful and result oriented leader with a strategic approach to getting things done.  ? Consistently recognized for technical troubleshooting skills used to rapidly and cost-effectively resolve challenging technical issues. Work Experience Systems Administrator Gotech Systems - Springfield, VA May 2015 to Present Managed users by creating user accounts, configuring AD group memberships and configuring Access Control Lists.  ? Administered Windows Server 2008, 2012, Linux and MAC OSX workstations.  ? Worked with IT security team to gather evidence, develop test plans, testing procedures and document test results.  ? Assisted with walkthroughs and held meetings with client to discuss areas to be tested: Risk Management, Configuration Management, Identity and Access Management, Incident Response, Contingency Planning, Continuous Monitoring, and Security Training.  ? Provide accurate and detailed logs within the ticketing and messaging systems for callouts and system alerts, as well as for communication and escalation steps taken to ensure prompt resolution of supported equipment processes and teams.  ? Diagnosed and resolved problems associated with DNS, DHCP, and other network related problems.  ? Built and installed multiple Linux machines via kickstart. I also deployed and maintained virtual machines virtual via VMware vSphere.  ? Reimaged PC systems and reinstalled operating system, software, updates and patches.  ? Installed, configured and manage IIS(windows) and apache(Linux) web servers. Sales Associate The Home Depot May 2015 to Present Hardware Technician Robert Half Technology - Dallas, TX March 2012 to May 2015 Data Backup & Recovery: Image laptops and iPads, burn databases to DVDs using Versa burner, as well as recover user data from defective hard drives within 48 hours via manual recovery.  ? Coordinated and participated in technical presales and live demonstrations to acquire significant new business accounts.  ? Installing, operating, maintaining, repairing and modifying end user devices such as personal computers, thin-clients, network interface cards, phones, monitors, printers, telephones, printers, pagers, and radios.  ? Performing a variety of maintenance and technical support on devices, integrated systems and subsystems, and install/configure software at customer and/or field locations.  ? Recovered data from defunct laptops by analyzing case notes and capabilities, uploading data to server when able and utilizing ADR software/other tools to extract data in event of unsuccessful server upload. Desktop Support Technician JPS Health Network - Fort Worth, TX January 2010 to March 2012 Applied Microsoft updates to the servers and ensured functionality by testing.  ? Administered support for the audio video equipment, Polycom VOIP system and onsite conference rooms.  ? Provided technical L1 & L2 hardware and software support to end users. Worked with pc vendors to repair malfunctioning devices, reimaging, application testing, troubleshooting and break fixing on Windows 7/8 machines.  ? Assisted in developing documentations that outlined troubleshooting steps for errors reported in Nagios as well as documentation for vendor maintenance and support agreements for all hardware and software in the test facility.  ? Resolving Hardware, Software, Network issues, VPN, Encryption, Active Directory, Password Reset.  Other Expereience Education Masters In Information Systems in Information Systems University of Phoenix July 2019 Graduate Certificate. in Cyber Security in Cyber Security University of Phoenix July 2018 Skills NETWORKING, LINUX, MICROSOFT ACCESS, MAC, CABLING, DECOMMISSIONING, System Admin, System Administrator, Active Directory Certifications/Licenses Graduate Certificate in Cyber Security July 2017 to Present Additional Information OTHER SKILLS AND TOOLSETS  Databases: Microsoft Access, Project management Software  Networking: Cabling Management, Server decommissioning  Operating Systems: Linux, Windows and Mac  Design and social media: Canvas, Instagram, Snapchat