Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> I'm a dedicated hardworking person and would be thankful to come to work everyday Twin Falls, ID I've worked as a server support level two at Dell, dealing with software, hardware, networking and RAID array issues. I worked for Dell. I also worked for st. Luke's Boise as a desktop tech where I imaged 955 HP desktops using a KVM over a Novell network. I also deployed and supported all employees with any and all I.t. needs. I have had many other technical jobs within the technology field. I have my compTIA security +, A+. I graduated from The College of Southern Idaho in 2005 with a 2.8 GPA. I've had seven solid years on the job experience. I'm a family man with two wonderful kids, my son is 14, my daughter is 8. I've been married to my high school sweet heart for 14 years, she and our kids our my world. I feel I can provide for my loving supportive family and provide the essential know how to fulfill the job requirements. Thank you for your time and I look forward to speaking you. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator STG, Inc. - Fort Huachuca, AZ September 2009 to May 2010 Setup and maintained active directory, updating users credentials and any approved changes. Completed my compTIA Security+, A+ while working here. Also got my ISP (information assurance security officer) which meant i was in charge of uploading files that were classified or secret level cleared. Repaired servers, notebooks, desktops. Any and everything related to I.T. support. I loved working here helping the department of defense was fulfilling Server Support Specialist Dell Technologies - Twin Falls, ID March 2006 to May 2007 I assisted customers with any and all technical related issues. Isolating and targeting the problem was my speciality. I look forward to challenging problems everyday. I received my DCSE and MCP in xp while working here. I.t. manager assistant Filer mutual telephone company - Filer, ID June 2005 to December 2005 I assisted customers onsite and over the phone with any and all service related issues. Dsl support, email, logins, hardware and software. Randy Baker and I started the repair shop next door to the main building and we did additional computer repairs and virus removals or upgrades for additional fee or waived the fee entirely for customer satisfaction. Enjoyed working for fmtc, it was a great experience and I truly would love to be apart of the team again. Education Technical degree in Computer support technical College of Southern Idaho - Twin Falls, ID August 2003 to May 2005 Skills Mcp, compTIA A+, Security+ (7 years), System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory, Vmware, Help Desk, Tech Support, Service Desk, Desktop Support, Helpdesk Support Certifications/Licenses Computer support technical degree May 2005 to Present Computer hardware, software, networking skills gained. Analyzed all components inside and of desktops, notebooks, printers, routers, switches, hubs, tape back up units. Provided me with the essential skills for a career within computer/server/network maintenance and repair