Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Concord, NH A successful IT Professional with broad experience in diverse  technologies with the ability to effectively work with internal and external  customers to achieve the goals set out by company policies. A highly  motivated professional with a proven ability to:    • Provide end-user support with professionalism and courtesy  • Lead IT management and projects  • Leverage IT to support business goals  • Identify and successfully develop and implement technology  opportunities  • Manage professionals and budgets Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator ALM Group LLC - Jacksonville, FL June 2016 to Present • Develop and manage 2008/2012/2016 server environments, both physical and VMware, for companies including AD, Exchange, DNS, TCP networks and other Microsoft technologies. Develop effective backup strategies using Microsoft’s built-in backup functionality along with external services such as Carbonite and Asigra.  • Develop, implement and configure migrations and installations of Office365 including managing the DNS changes and setting permissions for SharePoint/OneDrive for business.  • Provide break/fix support for end-user computing devices and peripherals.  • Manage networking equipment such as SonicWALL router/switches, wireless equipment and other network equipment.  • Implement solutions for remote access using VDI and mobile devices. Configure and manage Remote Desktop Services either direct or through VPN clients.  • Technical writing and training.  • Manage day-to-day functions including staffing, customer service and budget.  • Manage the IT functions for more than 100 businesses ranging in size from a few employees to over 100. Complexity of technology ranged from one server in a small office to multiple servers in a Citrix environment.  • Act as the IT department for companies including procurement, helpdesk, network installation, break/fix, inventory control, server monitoring and other duties as needed.  Responsible for providing IT expense reducing ideas and plans to businesses including innovative solutions including VOIP solutions. Technical Support Specialist VI State of New Hampshire - Concord, NH Present Lead and supervise team of level 2 and level 3 technicians in a public enterprise environment. Develop deployment strategies of hardware and software. Work with other IT departments to resolve issues and create solutions to complex tasks. Perform supervisory functions such as annual reviews. Education Master in Public Administration University of North Florida Bachelor of Science in Psychology University of North Florida Skills Office365, Windows Server, Network Administration, Desktop Support, Exchange Server, Wireless, Active Directory, Dhcp, DNS, Mobile, Mac OS X, Windows, Firewalls, VOIP, System Administrator, System Admin Awards Small Business of the Year 2006-10 Small Business of the Year for the Jacksonville Chamber of Commerce Certifications/Licenses MCSE Present Publications Harry the Hungry Frog http://www.thehungryfrog.com 2011-01 Children's book series about a frog that goes to different restaurants and learns new tastes and how to be polite.