Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Charlotte, NC Motivated, personable business professional with a successful 15-year track record of enterprise level systems administration. Talent for quickly mastering technology on multiple platforms. Diplomatic and tactful with professionals and non-professionals at all levels. Accustomed to handling sensitive, confidential records. Demonstrated history of accurately troubleshooting and solving OS, software, and networking issues in a timely fashion.  Flexible and versatile - able to maintain a sense of humor under pressure. Poised and competent with demonstrated ability to easily transcend cultural differences. Thrive in deadline-driven environments. Excellent team-building skills. Work Experience Systems Administrator TTEC/Eloyalty - Austin, TX April 2019 to July 2019 Skill Set  ? Deploy VMWare Virutal Server Domains for Tenants with a Golden Template scripting tool.  ? Touble shoot Active Directory issues in domain deployments  ? Cofigure UCCE appliances for professional services configuration for Cisco IP Telephony solution  ? Ongoing assistance in communication issues within the multiple tenant domains  ? Deploy cloud infrastructure at multiple international locations  ? Work indepenantly on multiple projects to completion.  ? Work with Project Managers and customers to achieve customer satisfaction. Technical Project Manager Apex Systems, Inc - Charlotte, NC April 2017 to April 2019 Hosting System Operations  Wells Fargo    Skill Set  ? Coordination of Project implementation from inception to completion  ? Integration with systems build teams, networking, storage, application teams and global Data Centers  ? Broad knowledge of all aspects of a large enterprise environment. To include networt, server and storage environment.  ? Responsible for tracking of all projects and infrastructure builds and handling any issues that arise.    Insight Global  100 N Tryon St  Charlotte, NC 28201  8/2015 to 12/2016    Systems Engineer  Technology Engineering and Architecture  Bank of America    Skill Set  ? Infrastructure design and oversight of upgrades and new builds at Bank of America.  ? Diagraming and topology design and documentation for existing and new environments  ? Integration with Project Managers, systems build teams, networking, storage and application teams  ? Broad knowledge of all aspects of a large enterprise environment.  ? Extensive use of Microsoft Visio and Project for tracing of all projects and infrastructure builds.    APEX, Inc  Blue Cross Blue Shield South Carolina  Columbia, SC 29210  2/2013 to 8/2015  Server Engineer    Skill Set  ? SQL version and update administration across multiple versions of SQL.  ? Administer 235 Windows servers both Virtual and Physical for proper configuration.  ? Correct security findings on servers to comply with DOD and government contracts.  ? Trouble shoot and fix any connectivity issues with various Agent reporting interfaces.  ? Validate and fix Back Up environment to ensure recovery process.  ? Disaster Recovery administrator for Windows environment from restore to application interface.    22nd Century Technology  Texas DADS  Austin TX  7/12 to9/12  Network Engineer    Skill Set  ? Microsoft Server Clustering for load balancing and failover.  Active Directory integration for servers and appliances to allow access from clients. LDAP, OU infrastructure, GPO administration and scripting technologies. Extensive knowledge of Active Directory installation, configuration, and infrastructure. Microsoft Server OS 2003, 2008, and 2008 R2 installation and configuration for Enterprise deployment.  ? Installation and support of various forms of Linux for servers and appliances. (OEL, Red Hat, Fedora)  ? 24/7 by 365 server support.    UNISYS GOIS, COPA  Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Data Powerhouse  Harrisburg, PA 17111  1/11 to 2/12  Systems Analyst  Skill Set  ? Microsoft Server Clustering for load balancing and failover.  ? Active Directory integration for servers and appliances to allow access from clients. LDAP, OU infrastructure, GPO administration and scripting technologies. Extensive knowledge of Active Directory installation, configuration, and infrastructure. Microsoft Server OS 2003, 2008, and 2008 R2 installation and configuration for Enterprise deployment. IBM, DELL, and Unisys server Platforms.    ? VMWare server installation, configuration, and migration. Both clean builds for current server migration and Physical to virtual and virtual to virtual to allow seamless migration.  ? Use of Microsoft SCCM and SCOM server for Server, Storage and appliance out of scope events and patching.  ? Use of Big Fix patching server to apply server OS and application patches on a monthly Basis.  ? EMC Data Domain disk back up appliance installation, configuration, and troubleshooting.  ? Oracle Exadata database appliance configuration, OS/firmware updates, and support for a Database Administrators.  ? Symantec/VERITAS installation on server platforms.  ? McAfee EPO and Antivirus installation on server platforms.  ? Cisco Nexus 1000v switch for VMWare and Unified Computing Switch 6120(fiber and copper) configuration.  ? Installation and support of various forms of Linux for servers and appliances. (OEL, Red Hat, Fedora)  ? 24/7 by 365 server support.  LOCKHEED MARTIN MISSION SERVICES  Pacses Project for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania  Harrisburg, PA 17110  3/04 to 1/11  Sr. LAN Administrator  Skill Set  ? Active Directory installation support and configuration for access, creation of user accounts, GPO's and permissions for the domain. Domain authoritative roles included Enterprise Admin, Schema Admin, Domain Admin, Exchange Admin, Backup Admin, etc.  ? Extensive experience in package deployment via MSI and EXE packages. Via GPO or scripting. Experience in WinLE package configuration for deployment to over 3000 users.  ? Microsoft Exchange Server 2000 and 2003 installation and configuration for 3200 users. AD integration with mail system. Creation of mail groups and access rights  ? Microsoft Server OS 2003, 2008, and 2008 R2 installation and configuration for Enterprise deployment.    ? Microsoft ISA/Forefront firewall application installation and configuration. Integrated to Active Directory on a dual homed server as a backend firewall. Instated a DMZ dual homed firewall for the edge. Created access and deny permissions based on users, servers, and URL's.  ? Brocade SAN switch installation and configuration.  ? IBM SAN storage installation and storage allocation for Exchange, Symantec/VERITAS Backup exec and various other applications  ? IBM Blade Center HS21 installation and configuration.  ? EMC RSA Secure ID server application for remote access. Installation of Token seeds for key fob Tokens. Creation of node secrets for server and web access to resources. Creation of groups for access to resources.  ? IPSwitch What's Up Gold server for server and network availability. Creation of monitoring groups for servers, switches, and routers to monitor availability and bandwidth.  ? Trend Micro ISS server for content filtering, antivirus, and web monitoring for 3500 users. Also used for web reports for administration and management.  ? Symantec/Norton Ghost cast server installation and configuration for reimaging of client PC's.  Image creation and deployment for completely automated installation.  ? Citrix XenApp server administration to support remote access users.  ? McAfee EPO server administration and support along with McAfee Enterprise 8.0 antivirus. Installation of EPO agent and upgrades to client PC's. Antivirus configuration.  ? Microsoft WSUS installation and configuration for patch management to servers and desktop clients. Group creation for deployment of MS patches.  ? Secondary Support for VERITAS and Symantec backup servers, and SMS/SCCM.  ? Postini internet email antivirus and antispam administration.  ? Continual Help Desk level 2 and level 3 support for end users and application development staff.    COMPUTER LEARNING NETWORK  Mechanicsburg, PA 17055  10/03 to 1/05  Instructor    ? Taught MCSA course for Microsoft Server, Exchange, and ISA. Also instructed the A+ and NET+ CompTIA curriculum. Systems Engineer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC August 2015 to December 2016 Technology Engineering and Architecture  Bank of America    Skill Set  ? Infrastructure design and oversight of upgrades and new builds at Bank of America.  ? Diagraming and topology design and documentation for existing and new environments  ? Integration with Project Managers, systems build teams, networking, storage and application teams  ? Broad knowledge of all aspects of a large enterprise environment.  ? Extensive use of Microsoft Visio and Project for tracing of all projects and infrastructure builds. Server Engineer Apex Systems, Inc - Columbia, SC February 2013 to August 2015 Skill Set  ? SQL version and update administration across multiple versions of SQL.  ? Administer 235 Windows servers both Virtual and Physical for proper configuration.  ? Correct security findings on servers to comply with DOD and government contracts.  ? Trouble shoot and fix any connectivity issues with various Agent reporting interfaces.  ? Validate and fix Back Up environment to ensure recovery process.  ? Disaster Recovery administrator for Windows environment from restore to application interface.    22nd Century Technology Network Engineer Texas DADS - Austin, TX July 2012 to July 2012 Skill Set  ? Microsoft Server Clustering for load balancing and failover.  Active Directory integration for servers and appliances to allow access from clients. LDAP, OU infrastructure, GPO administration and scripting technologies. Extensive knowledge of Active Directory installation, configuration, and infrastructure. Microsoft Server OS 2003, 2008, and 2008 R2 installation and configuration for Enterprise deployment.  ? Installation and support of various forms of Linux for servers and appliances. (OEL, Red Hat, Fedora)  ? 24/7 by 365 server support. Systems Analyst UNISYS GOIS, COPA - Harrisburg, PA January 2011 to February 2012 Skill Set  ? Microsoft Server Clustering for load balancing and failover.  ? Active Directory integration for servers and appliances to allow access from clients. LDAP, OU infrastructure, GPO administration and scripting technologies. Extensive knowledge of Active Directory installation, configuration, and infrastructure. Microsoft Server OS 2003, 2008, and 2008 R2 installation and configuration for Enterprise deployment. IBM, DELL, and Unisys server Platforms.    ? VMWare server installation, configuration, and migration. Both clean builds for current server migration and Physical to virtual and virtual to virtual to allow seamless migration.  ? Use of Microsoft SCCM and SCOM server for Server, Storage and appliance out of scope events and patching.  ? Use of Big Fix patching server to apply server OS and application patches on a monthly Basis.  ? EMC Data Domain disk back up appliance installation, configuration, and troubleshooting.  ? Oracle Exadata database appliance configuration, OS/firmware updates, and support for a Database Administrators.  ? Symantec/VERITAS installation on server platforms.  ? McAfee EPO and Antivirus installation on server platforms.  ? Cisco Nexus 1000v switch for VMWare and Unified Computing Switch 6120(fiber and copper) configuration.  ? Installation and support of various forms of Linux for servers and appliances. (OEL, Red Hat, Fedora)  ? 24/7 by 365 server support. Sr. LAN Administrator LOCKHEED MARTIN MISSION SERVICES - Harrisburg, PA March 2004 to January 2011 Skill Set  ? Active Directory installation support and configuration for access, creation of user accounts, GPO's and permissions for the domain. Domain authoritative roles included Enterprise Admin, Schema Admin, Domain Admin, Exchange Admin, Backup Admin, etc.  ? Extensive experience in package deployment via MSI and EXE packages. Via GPO or scripting. Experience in WinLE package configuration for deployment to over 3000 users.  ? Microsoft Exchange Server 2000 and 2003 installation and configuration for 3200 users. AD integration with mail system. Creation of mail groups and access rights  ? Microsoft Server OS 2003, 2008, and 2008 R2 installation and configuration for Enterprise deployment.    ? Microsoft ISA/Forefront firewall application installation and configuration. Integrated to Active Directory on a dual homed server as a backend firewall. Instated a DMZ dual homed firewall for the edge. Created access and deny permissions based on users, servers, and URL's.  ? Brocade SAN switch installation and configuration.  ? IBM SAN storage installation and storage allocation for Exchange, Symantec/VERITAS Backup exec and various other applications  ? IBM Blade Center HS21 installation and configuration.  ? EMC RSA Secure ID server application for remote access. Installation of Token seeds for key fob Tokens. Creation of node secrets for server and web access to resources. Creation of groups for access to resources.  ? IPSwitch What's Up Gold server for server and network availability. Creation of monitoring groups for servers, switches, and routers to monitor availability and bandwidth.  ? Trend Micro ISS server for content filtering, antivirus, and web monitoring for 3500 users. Also used for web reports for administration and management.  ? Symantec/Norton Ghost cast server installation and configuration for reimaging of client PC's.  Image creation and deployment for completely automated installation.  ? Citrix XenApp server administration to support remote access users.  ? McAfee EPO server administration and support along with McAfee Enterprise 8.0 antivirus. Installation of EPO agent and upgrades to client PC's. Antivirus configuration.  ? Microsoft WSUS installation and configuration for patch management to servers and desktop clients. Group creation for deployment of MS patches.  ? Secondary Support for VERITAS and Symantec backup servers, and SMS/SCCM.  ? Postini internet email antivirus and antispam administration.  ? Continual Help Desk level 2 and level 3 support for end users and application development staff.    COMPUTER LEARNING NETWORK Instructor Mechanicsburg, PA October 2003 to January 2005 Taught MCSA course for Microsoft Server, Exchange, and ISA. Also instructed the A+ and NET+ CompTIA curriculum. Education Information Technology West Chester University - West Chester, PA February 2005 to September 2005