Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Woodland Park, CO Work Experience Systems Administrator Innovative Computer Solutions, LLC - Ridgeland, MS September 2013 to July 2019 As an employee of ICS, I was posted as System Administrator for Jackson Heart Clinic's as my main client. Jackson Heart Clinic's is one of the largest cardiology groups in the state of Mississippi, which consists of board certified cardiologists that provide a number of cardiology services for their clients. Here at JHC, I provide 24/7 support for their network, all their servers, and client side of their hardware and software. I have also been utilized in setting up some of the physician's office computers at their personal homes. I also provide support for many of the employee's personal devices, such as laptops, tablets, iPhones, and Androids.    - Everyday activities include working with Active Directory, entering new employees, configuring permissions, working with Human Resources on rights and privileges, and working with Group Policies to insure a secure working environment for everyone.    - I use VMware vSphere to create, alter and maintain more than 25 virtual servers. Servers ranging from database servers, app servers, file share servers, and Terminal servers. I have also received my VMWare's VTSP 2015 accreditation.    - I support Jackson Heart's phone system as well; creating, altering, and maintaining all extensions for nearly 140 employees.    - I also use "LanSweeper" software which provides me with a variety of information as well as internal remote support on any and all devices within my network. I use remote support on a daily basis, but find that a "face to face" communication is sometime what my clients need more of.    - I have been working with Nurses, Physicians, and Administration staff for nearly 10 years. During that time, I've learned how to provide technical support in a "non-technical" manor in order that my clients fill more comfortable coming to me for support, advice, and troubleshooting issues.    - JHC also uses Microsoft 365 as their main E-mailing system. I maintain this email system daily as well. Installing, maintaining and providing instructions to new and old employees on an as needed bases.    - I provide end user support on the Electronic Health Records system, NextGen. I am becoming more and more efficient with this program daily. I work with the provider, TSI, to help with problem tickets that are opened by the nurses and physicians. I also work with the providers of our EHR, to help maintain the servers and their backup systems.  ? Alone with my post here at JHC, I am at times, called upon to help out with ICS's other clients. I provide support for them as well remotely and via phone support. Baptist Medical Center - Jackson, MS May 2013 to August 2013 I provided End User support for the hospital on nights and weekends.    ? I assisted in implementing changes and/or replacements to End Users computer hardware and software; installing, configuring, and troubleshooting Operating Systems, (XP, Windows7, and Mac's) Information Tech System Analyst Intermediate University of Mississippi Medical Center - Jackson, MS September 2008 to March 2013 I provided End User support for multiple departments including Adult ER, PED's ER, AirCare, MedCom, Rapid Track, and Adult GI unit; as well as Emergency Medicine Faculty and Staff.  ? I trained in EPIC (Electronic Privacy Information Center) software.  ? Implemented changes and/or replacements to End Users computer hardware and software.  ? Installing, configuring, and troubleshooting Operating Systems, (XP, Windows7, and Mac's).  ? Worked with Tele-Medicine program for 4 years, using PolyCom equipment and troubleshooting connection problems at remote sites throughout the state. Network Administrator Jackson/Hinds Library System - Jackson, MS June 2005 to September 2008 Implementing new backup and redundancy procedures for three onsite servers  ? Training other employees to operate software for specific programs  ? Installing and troubleshooting conflicts between different operating systems along with new and legacy third party software  ? Implemented changes done to the website using Dreamweaver software  ? Maintain Mac and PC computers and software throughout 15 branch system    RCM Technologies, Inc., Statewide Travel onsite Hardware Technician Dell February 2005 to June 2005 Troubleshooting software and hardware problems with Dell customers  ? Onsite installing and repairing computer software and hardware    Additional - Certification include the following: VMWare's VTSP 2015 accreditation, CompTIA A+, Network+, Security+ Certified, ITIL v3 Foundation Certification, along with several Dell Hardware Certifications.    Experience/Knowledge  - WAN/LAN, some Cisco Routers, Active Directory, MS Server 2003, 2008, and 2008 R2, VMware vSphere & Fusion, Windows XP, Window 7, 8, and 10, thin client workstations, and Terminal Servers. Also have experience with Microsoft based networking technologies such as DNS, WINS, DHCP, SMTP, HTTP, and FTP. Very familiar with IOS and Apple products as well. I have experience in repairing iPhone hardware; screens, batteries, and various parts in the repair process. Education Associates Degree Virginia College - Jackson, MS August 2000 to January 2003 Hinds Community College - Jackson, MS August 1994 to May 1995 Skills System Administrator, System Admin, Vmware, Active Directory Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dqrjfvcxc-1g0cyg Basic Computer Skills: PC — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/chzqvtdiqxohpbqc Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.