Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Indigo IT Centreville, VA Work Experience Systems Administrator Indigo IT May 2015 to Present • Supporting client U.S. Customs and Border Protections (CBP) software and client update patching using Microsoft Systems Center Client Management utility.  • Assisting end users with licensed software installations via Microsoft System Center.  • Supporting Field Support Engineers with imaging with Microsoft WinPE and other technical issues.  • Troubleshooting, repairing, and installing Microsoft Distribution Point servers/workstations throughout the CBP enterprise.  • Help create and test software packaging via Microsoft Software Center and Microsoft Hyper-V virtual machines. Tier 2 Help Desk Analyst Unisys Corporation June 2011 to May 2015 • Provide remote support to the Unisys LBI-WHTI (Land Border Integration - Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative) federal project contracted with CBP (U.S. Customs and Border Protection).  • Used remote tools (Windows RDP) to login and resolve issues with LPR (License Plate Reader) equipment as well as pedestrian equipment, such as Kiosks and Gates that resides at the ports of entry along the Canadian and Mexican borders of the United States.  • Use of in-house ticketing system as well as Remedy to document issues that require resolution by remote use or dispatch of a local technician.  • Provided logistical support to project by preparing and shipping of equipment to sites either for new installation or repair/replace instances. Data Center Engineer Boehringer-Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals September 2010 to June 2011 • Provided both Physical and Virtual server builds and installations for multiple projects within the organization.  • Provided break/fix support for HP Blade and Rack server environment on a hardware and software level.  • Break/fix hardware support done for Cisco switches and routers.  • Cabling done for new hardware installations both using both copper and fiber.  • Server monitoring done using HP OpenView software, installations done with HP Onboard Administrator, Virtual connect, and HP Integrated Lights Out (iLO) software. Associate Systems Engineer Ticketmaster, LLC March 2009 to March 2010 • Provided onsite support for Ticketmaster's local office of around 50 user Lenovo Laptops and HP Desktops.  • Provided Server maintenance and setup for HP Proliant and IBM e-series servers.  • Helped to support in-house developed software called Archtics, used by 400 clients in the U.S, Canada, the UK, and Australia.  • Provided Blackberry Smartphone support for local office. Acquisition, provisioning, and Enterprise Activation as well as troubleshooting. Education Bachelor of Science degree in Information Systems Security ITT Technical Institute - Chantilly, VA 2006 to 2009 Associates in Applied Sciences Degree in Computer and Information Sciences in Applied Sciences ECPI College of Technology - Manassas, VA 2002 to 2003 Skills System Administrator, Active Directory, Vmware, Linux, System Admin, SCCM Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ Present CompTIA Security+ Present ITIL v3 Present Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) Present Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/lq25uqycvzbrsfpo Technical Support — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/4xzdi3-mb0oyxfxh Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.