Systems Administrator II <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Systems Administrator II - Aureon Kansas City, MO Experienced IT Generalist skilled in systems administration, networking, and software support. Accomplished in Windows domain administration. Work Experience Systems Administrator II Aureon - Overland Park, KS 2017 to Present Managed Service Provider serving mostly medical and financial clients both onsite and remote  ? One of only two admins trusted with Office 365 mail migrations from on-prem Exchange, Google Apps, etc.  ? Scripted the entire setup and configuration of Office 365 tenants in PowerShell including spam filters, connectors, domain verification, license assignment, etc  ? Building images with MDT for workstation deployment projects  ? Troubleshooting tier 2 and 3 trouble tickets. Serve as an escalation point for other admins.  ? Member of the company-wide Process Improvement Committee working to design internal company processes and procedures  ? Tested, approved, deployed, and wrote the SOP for Sophos Mobile Control and Sophos Encryption. Company had struggled to roll out an encryption solution for 2 years beforehand.  ? Primary admin for a difficult customer with non-standard environment. Took over after client threatened to end the business relationship and turned it around.  ? Routinely took on tickets that Aureon lacked expertise in by learning on the fly and managing client expectations. For example, building an SCCM 2016 server  ? Technical Account Manager for 4 clients. Provide guidance for upcoming infrastructure needs, identify recurring issues, manage the client relationships from the technical side  ? Work with third party software vendors to troubleshoot and implement their solutions. Make sure they don't cause conflicts with the rest of the existing infrastructure and fill in the cracks between vendors  ? Ensured compliance with HIPAA and other regulations / guidelines for medical clients  ? Work with Group Policy, DNS, DHCP, RDS, and other technologies in a standard Windows domain  ? Work with VMWare and Hyper-V to build, migrate, and maintain servers  ? Write documentation and PowerShell scripts for the company knowledge base to do things like identify compromised mail accounts by scanning mailbox rules/forwards  ? Subject Matter Expert and top escalation point for Dell Data Protection Enterprise, Sophos Encryption / Mobile Control, and Office 365  ? Train other admins and assist them with tickets Support Engineer tier 2 Lexmark Enterprise Software - Lenexa, KS 2016 to 2017 Working more complex and escalated support cases  ? Identify the cause of Windows and Linux server performance issues whether it is network, CPU, RAM, I/O, software defect, or a configuration issue  ? Troubleshoot high availability, load balanced environments  ? Diagnose and repair SQL database issues  ? Troubleshoot SOAP and REST calls both into and out of Perceptive Content from third party applications  ? Help customers identify issues with their SSL certificates and keystores  ? Train coworkers on technologies and specific types of issues  ? Help Engineers when they get stuck  ? Mentor Engineers on how to work cases  ? Part of the on-call rotation for production down issues  ? Use vRealize to quickly provision VM's to test and recreate customer issues  Support Engineer tier 1  ? Support Perceptive Content / ImageNow on Windows and Linux servers  ? Troubleshoot automated and semi-automated customized ECM solutions that integrate with variations of LDAP, Citrix, EPIC, Meditech, Lawson, Dynamics, Peoplesoft, Exchange, Office 365, Google Apps, Banner, and customer built applications. For example, Perceptive Content not passing correct information to EPIC Hyperspace inside of a Citrix session.  ? Support desktop applications as well as web apps  ? Use knowledge of systems / network administration to resolve customer issues in a timely manner  ? Go to resource for upset customers, high profile cases, and complicated environmental issues - especially with Exchange, Office 365, networking, and Citrix  ? Became familiar with a wide variety of IT infrastructures from universities to hospitals to government agencies. Everything from small companies to Fortune 100 companies.  ? Learned about different approaches companies take to change management based on their industry regulations, size, cost, and business needs. Systems Analyst SkillPath Seminars - Mission, KS 2012 to 2016 Part of a 3 person team handling all of the company's IT needs  ? Document fixes and configuration information  ? Create instructional guides for highly technical users as well as less technical users  ? Built images with WDS / MDT and deployed them.  ? Responsible for setting up new hires and handling separations.  ? Manage Mitel phone system with digital, IP, and SIP phones.  ? Manage multiple internet connections including CenturyLink fiber and Time Warner Business Class coax.  ? Build and manage Windows servers, including Exchange and domain controllers as needed with VMWare on SAN storage or physical servers.  ? Recover files from VEEAM backups.  ? Built the company's Citrix XenApp environment from scratch and support it  ? Migrated the company from Exchange 2010 to an Office 365 / Exchange 2013 hybrid environment  ? Handled some of the helpdesk and desktop support responsibilities including general troubleshooting of network, PC, phone, printer, and server issues as well as training users.  ? Handle projects from start to finish by assessing software, getting quotes, giving recommendations based on business needs and cost to the director and CIO, planning, documenting, communicating with effected users about changes and scheduling downtime.  ? Work with support vendors as needed  ? Support trainers across the world as well as the company's call center in Chillicothe and warehouse in North Kansas City.  ? Run cable and add network drops to new or remodeled office spaces.  ? Designed, implemented, and support company Wi-Fi networks with multiple access points and L2 roaming.  ? Helped with the merger of another company, including access to file shares across domains and firewalls, forwarding email across domains, and migrating users from one domain to another. IT Work Study Internship Avila University - Kansas City, MO 2011 to 2011 Assisted the network engineer by doing site surveys, wire management, and making Ethernet cables. Diagnosed and repaired desktops, laptops, printers, and copiers. Assisted faculty and students with any IT related issues in person and by phone. Debt Collector National Processing of America - Overland Park, KS 2010 to 2011 Debt Collector Convergys - Olathe, KS 2009 to 2010 Technology Supervisor Circuit City - Overland Park, KS 2004 to 2008 • Led and trained associates in selling computers and computer services.  • Supervised Firedog PC Technicians ensuring work was done correctly.  • Performed closing duties - ensured registers were counted, deposit was accurate, and sales floor was ready for next day. Performed opening duties - counted safe and registers and ensured associates were ready to serve customers.  • Created schedules to fit store employee needs while remaining within budgeted hours.  Firedog PC Technician  • Performed PC services, including virus removal, hardware upgrades, new computer setup, diagnostics, and data migrations.  • Performed PC services in customer homes, including setting up wireless networks and configuring media center PCs to integrate with home theater systems. Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, ENCRYPTION, EXCHANGE, CITRIX, VMWARE, XENAPP, DATA PROTECTION, HYPER-V, BACKUP EXEC, SQL, MICROSOFT DYNAMICS, DYNAMICS, DYNAMICS GP, MICROSOFT DYNAMICS GP, MITEL, REST, ANDROID, IOS, SYMANTEC, RIGHTFAX