Systems Administrator V <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> V Systems Administrator V - Northrop Grumman Fayetteville, NC Competent hard working System Administrator affiliated with MCTP, TRADOC, WARSIM training systems under Northrop Grumman Corp. Contract. Responsible for system maintenance, networking and troubleshooting to ensure continuation of training at highest efficiency. Highly motivated, fast learner with intent to always push for more knowledge and better efficiency within job criteria. Seeking an Information Technology position. CompTIA A+, Network+, Security+ certified, attending Colorado Technical University for Network Engineering and Administration with a GPA of 3.8, Have current WIN10, WIN7, WIN8 Computing Environment and am a disabled Veteran. Work Experience Systems Administrator V Northrop Grumman September 2016 to Present Contract affiliated with Mission Command Training Program MCTP TRADOC.    Systems Experienced In  -WARSIM Simulation including clients working with Military Intelligence, Special Forces, Airforce and Navy Coordination as well As allied forces within FVEY and Secret Classification.    -Exercise Control Clients with JDOCS, SIPR, KAOK, and JSOC level access security requirements.    -Understanding of and some experience in Domain Control and Active Directory creation and management.    -Responsible for creating a physical network with CATV and CATVI cable as well as Fiber Optic Cable, wiring all systems to Cisco Switches as well as MTC Networking architecture dependent on each training site, configuring ports on the Switch to use the correct VLAN, ensuring the systems can reach the Domain Controller and join into the domain through proper security protocols.    -Responsible for creating maintaining and manning a Forward Support Team helpdesk and providing proper supplies and equipment needed at each site.    -Responsible for managing a technician team during the training exercise ensuring professionalism, training, expertise and customer care is maintained at a high level to ensure rapid response to issues and knowledge on how to prevent those issues in the future.    -Created a color coding shipment system which helped expedite equipment transportation to ensure max efficiency during pack out and loading operations. Color coding model became standardized throughout Forward Support Team Technical branches and used as a model for all shipment coordination and equipment placement cutting down the equipment movement timeline by a minimum of three hours and decreasing set up time on site due to all equipment being in the appropriate areas.    -Responsible for maintenance system hardware components to include all Laptops, Monitors, Desktops, Projectors, Printers and tools needed for creating cable ends, networking equipment in extent from cable tester to Fluke systems and terminators.    -Familiar with Network Closet tasks and equipment usage as well as Fiber Optic cable care and testing equipment.    -IAM-II Certifications and training requirements to maintain status.    -Secret Security Clearance 12B Combat Engineer United States Army February 2007 to January 2016 Combat Engineer Served in United States Army 2007 to 2009 and with 102nd Sapper Company, 307th EN BN, 20th EN BDE Afghanistan 2011-2014 Assigned to S3 Operations, HHC, 27th EN BN, 20th EN BDE 2014-2016  Served as a NCO in charge of.  -Fire support teams training, heavy weapons training and Common Remotely Operated Weapon System (CROWS) familiarization, zeroing and troubleshooting NCOIC.  -Route clearance mission foreign ally and local national coordination, basic soldiering skills training including but not limited too first aid, rifle marksmanship training and safety, physical fitness, mine detection and mine field discovery procedures and clearance and route clearance procedures and strategies.  -Route Clearance Vehicle and systems and equipment maintenance including Harris radios operation and troubleshooting, CROWS maintenance, zeroing and troubleshooting in both garrison and deployed environments, Blue Force Tracker and Hydraulic search and probe arm and camera calibration and troubleshooting as well as maintenance.  -Served as lead gun truck support weapons NCOIC responsible for all support by fire missions, air CAS support mission coordination and Artillery Support missions during deployment to Afghanistan.  -Assigned to S3 Operations, HHC, 27th EN BN, 20th EN BDE and tasked as vehicle, radio and weapons maintenance NCOIC, also responsible for Battalion COMEX and COMSEC coordination ensuring that during airborne operations training and field training operations Radio and Blue Force Tracker systems were functioning and communication was constant through entire battalion.  -Tasked as Battalion Drop Zone safety coordinator responsible for transportation of paratroopers to the pack shed and off the drop zone as well as the Battalion Senior Jumpmaster assistant responsible for Range Control Communications, DZ marking, chute shakeout and medic placement as well as pickup vehicle communication coordinator.  -Helped coordinate and participate in Airborne operations, tasked as Battalion TOC security NCOIC responsible for heavy weapons emplacement, wire obstacle emplacement, mine obstacle emplacement, support by fire positions and defense buildup operations, coordinating and rotating patrol personnel and fighting position emplacement.  -Served as Company Master Driver under the BN Master Driver in charge of coordinating training sites, vehicle driver licensing, company drivers training and various vehicle operations SOP instruction. Fleet of vehicles licensed to operate. RG-31, Buffalo, Husky, HEMTT, HWWMV, JCB HMEE, D9 Dozer, LMTV and all support systems and route clearance equipment encompassed within these vehicles capabilities.  -Received Medical retirement under honorable conditions receiving 100% Permanent Disability VA compensation. Education BA in Network Engineering and Administration Colorado Technical University 2018 to Present Skills System Administrator, System Admin Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: Sergeant Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ January 2013 to January 2023 CompTIA Network+ February 2013 to February 2023 CompTIA Security+ February 2014 to February 2023 Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/7lggbxu0x7x3vuzr Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/gi-advqnl3raj0gy Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.