Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Manager - Ops conulting Stevensville, MD An IT professional with 6 years of overall experience as a Technical Support Representative with a strong aptitude for managing and troubleshooting a wide range of laptop, desktop, and mobile issues. I am an energetic and self-motivated individual with solid experience in Networking, Windows/Active Directory, overseeing multiple sites, and troubleshooting hardware and software. I have exceptional verbal and written communication skills. I have the ability to manage shifting priorities on multiple projects all while maintaining quality of my work. I am CCENT, CompTIA A+, Net + and Security+ certified, MCSA-M365, MCSA-Azure Architect, Oracle Database 12C SQL. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator OPS Consulting, LLC - Hanover, MD November 2018 to Present etwork Management  • Firewall installation and configuration  • WAN configuration and installation  • New computer and desktop set up/purchase license deployments and management  • Inventory maintain and distribute all aspects of IT in department  • MCSA  • Server and Data migration to cloud based computing  • Phone System management  • SIP Trunk management  • Hardware management and installation  • Troubleshooting issues with Network printers and migrating print servers  • Group Policy management in Azure  • AD Management/Microsoft AZURE  • Sharepoint creation and management  • DHCP Server management  • Switching and Routing  • Demo products to clients and users  • Implement scheduling and release of new software coordinating with vendor  • Responsible for coordinating new office moves  • Virtual server migration  • Virtual network migration  • AZURE Cloud Environment management and architecture  •Oracle Cloud VCN Management  •JAVA scripting IT Manager Global Public Safety, LLC December 2016 to Present • Streamline IT department  • Network Management  • Firewall installation and configuration  • WAN configuration and installation  • New computer and desktop set up/purchase license deployments and management  • Inventory maintain and distribute all aspects of IT in department  • Microsoft 365 migration  • Server and Data migration to cloud based computing  • Phone System management  • SIP Trunk management  • Hardware management and installation  • Troubleshooting issues with Network printers and migrating print servers  • Group Policy management  • AD Management/Microsoft AZURE  • Sharepoint creation and management  • DHCP Server management  • Switching and Routing  • Recommend, build, quote and install Full IT/Server/NAS solutions for police and state departments in Maryland and surrounding areas.  • Demo products to clients and users  • Implement scheduling and release of new software coordinating with vendor  • Responsible for coordinating new office moves  • Virtual server migration  • Virtual network migration  • AZURE Cloud experience  • Bringing up new offices across the United States  • Responsible for 8 Sites nationwide System Administrator III Agency Holding Company May 2016 to December 2016 -via spiceworks/jira  • Resolved technical issues for approximately 125-150 users with LAN, WAN, laptops, desktops and mobiles issues via the JIRA ticketing system  ? Installed computer peripherals and equipment for users  ? Gained feedback from customers about updates with equipment and systems  ? Experience troubleshooting Windows 7, Windows 10, and mobile devices  ? Active directory support  ? Windows Server 2008 support  • Network management applications such as Active Directory, DHCP, DNS  • Windows Server Updates  • Ensured systems were up to date with correct software  • Install and track assets via SpiceWorks  • Systematically followed up with issues via JIRA  • Answer phones to reset users passwords  • Assist local and roaming staff with laptop issues  • Integrate to windows 10 atmosphere  • Support wsus printer issues  • GPO update support  • Perform system tape and network backup maintenance daily Systems Administrator II Johns Hopkins Hospital September 2015 to February 2016 - via Jira  ? Resolved technical issues for approximately 125-150 users with LAN, WAN, laptops, desktops and mobiles issues via the JIRA ticketing system  ? Installed computer peripherals and equipment for users  ? Gained feedback from customers about updates with equipment and systems  ? Experience troubleshooting Windows 7, Windows 10, and mobile devices  ? Active directory support  ? Windows Server 2008 support  ? Network management applications such as Active Directory, DHCP, DNS,  ? Managed antivirus, Norton, Kaspersky endpoint  ? Ran back up reporting to cloud servers and NAS's  ? Ran reports to determine malfunctions that to occur  ? Coordinated with central IT to ensure the upgrades of departments computers and systems to run applications specific to give users/doctors an easier experience  ? Windows Server Updates  ? Ensured systems were up to date with correct software  ? Install and track assets via SpiceWorks  ? Systematically followed up with issues via JIRA  ? AVIA phone support  ? Troubleshot media server issues  ? Coordinated with vendors to resolve issues    Systems Analyst  ? Application development/debugging for ophthalmology equipment and computes  ? Worked with vendors to ensure our users were getting the best experience possible with our applications  ? Troubleshot issues with systems using Diacom  ? Image users computers that were using systems for work-based use  ? Logix for coding issues with applications IT Regional System Admin Seasons Healthcare Management September 2014 to August 2015 • Managed 10 sites (MD/MA/CT/DE/NJ/PA) from regional office in Maryland  • Provided end users with support in their laptops and desktops, Windows 7, 10, Apple OSX- Mountain Lion  • Mobile device management support, Apple Devices, Android  • Active Directory Support  • Add/Remove users from Domains/Groups  • Create and Edit Shared files on Servers  • Windows Server 2008 support  • Microsoft SQL remote issues  • Create shells for databases on servers  • Avia IP phone support  • Microsoft office 2010  • DHCP, DNS, issues  • Manage all Healthcare IT issues  • Work with team to ensure our health care professionals have up to date, working systems and devices  • Installed cisco switches and Routers  • Installed Fortigate Firewalls, managed Firewall operating system  • Managed all IT operations for my provided sites.  • Oversee and deploy all inventory asset as well as reconciliation for each site and manage inventory of systems and phones  • Identify connection issues in offices on laptops, desktops and servers  • Strategically work with vendors to ensure all connection and systems are working for new offices and office maintenance  • Ran low voltage wiring for new offices acquired  • Managed Windows 7 and server 2007 environment  • Printer fixes and computer hardware issues - technical assistance and support for incoming queries and issues related to computer systems, software, and hardware.  • Utilized ticketing systems to strategically solve end users issues in a timely fashion with accuracy Help Desk/Tech Support Rogers Technical Services, Inc June 2013 to September 2014 • Installed and maintained various operating systems including Windows 7, Windows server 2007  • Applied knowledge learned from troubleshooting various issues with client systems to fix problems normally found on the ordinary work system  • Microsoft office 2010 break/fix  • Active Directory support  • Adding and removing users and users systems from Domains  • Guided employees through detailed instructions to streamline the ticketing system via phone call  • Repaired systems in facility to always be running at optimal performance levels  • Simple printer fixes/Computer hardware issues technical assistance and support for incoming queries and issues related to computer systems, software, and hardware.  • Respond to queries either in person or over the phone.  • Write training manuals.  • Train computer users.  • Maintain daily performance of computer systems.  • Respond to email messages for customers seeking help.  • Ask questions to determine nature of problem.  • Walk customer through problem-solving process.  • Install, modify, and repair computer hardware and software.  • Clean up computers.  • Run diagnostic programs to resolve problems.  • Resolve technical problems with Local Area Networks (LAN), Wide Area Networks (WAN), and other systems.  • Install computer peripherals for users.  • Follow up with customers to ensure issue has been resolved.  • Gain feedback from customers about computer usage.  • Run reports to determine malfunctions that continue to occur. Data Processing Specialist/Marketing Associate Cathedral Stone Products - Hanover, MD February 2012 to June 2013 • Used open ended discovery questions to determine customer wants and needs, then applied the knowledge and information gained to meet and offer customer services/products that fulfill the customers desires.  • Prepared data for output to a variety of devices in printed and electronic media  • Processed marketing data according to client requirements, established specifications and procedures  • Assisted Chief Operating Officer in daily routines to achieve creative and efficient solutions to client objectives  • Installed and maintained various operating systems including Windows Xp, Windows 7, Windows Server 2007, Mac Osx  • Microsoft 2010 break/fixes  • Maintained accurate and up-to-date documentation of project details  • Systematically cross-trained with other team members on all ongoing programs and projects, assessed current approach and suggested improvements when appropriate  • Assisted Chief Operating Officer by troubleshooting errors commonly found on workplace computers Education Bachelor's in Bachelor of Science Information Systems Management Strayer University-District of Columbia - Stevensville, MD March 2017 to Present Associates of Applied Science in Computer Networking Technology TESST College of Technology - Baltimore, MD November 2013 Skills Service Desk, Active Directory, Cisco, Vmware, Strategic Planning, Exchange, Network Administration Certifications/Licenses MCSA-Office 365 February 2019 to 2024 PSQL January 2019 to Present MCSE-Azure Architect January 2019 to 2024