Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Millington, TN To grow and learn in new technologies while providing excellent service in data center administration, Netbackup solutions, and Windows administration. Work as a team player to resolve technical issues while frequently making significant contributions to the team goal.     System's administration experience  • Manage and coordinate network operation efforts, IT planning, security, and other technical areas.   • Assessing current IT and Security solutions implementing upgrades, modifications and necessary procedures to ensure continued DOD compliance.  • Installation, configuration and troubleshooting of hardware and software in support of the MGMDC domain.  • Tier III onsite desktop administration and support to resolve user hardware, software and connectivity issues including VPN user support.  • Created domain network accounts via Active Directory and created/granted permissions to  shared resources. Assured senior management of data protection by applying established government standards.  • Utilize Netbackup for data restoration.  • Work with Microsoft Server 2012 (and prior) for networking TCP/IP, DNS, FTP, LAN, WAN, VMWare, networking and routers.   • Installation, Configuration, Administration and Troubleshooting including domain network account creation, deletions and modifications, password resets and user related administrative functions.  • Utilizing stig viewer and sensr to ensure DISA, DOD, CCRI compliance.  • Deployment of OS patches across the domain to servers and users as necessary via  WSUS application.  • Reimage computers for the customer to utilize on the MGMDC domain.  • Reimage blades for server utilization on the CPMDC, CDMDC, CTMDC, CQMDC and MGMDC domains.  • Assist in racking and configuring chassis, blade, and server room within data center.  • Deploy and configure new Windows servers 2012 R2 for all customer domains and MGMDC domains  • Building and configuring new Linux servers via redhat 7 image  • Utilize powershell and command prompt  • Create reports for data server usage via Microsoft Excel Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator DRS Technologies, Inc - Millington, TN May 2017 to Present ·    Assess current IT and Security solutions implementing upgrades, modifications and necessary procedures to ensure continued DOD compliance.  ·    Installation, configuration and troubleshooting of hardware and software in support of the MGMDC domain.  ·  Tier III onsite desktop administration and support to resolve user hardware, software and connectivity issues including user support.  ·    Created domain network accounts via Active Directory and created/granted permissions to  shared resources. Assure senior management of data protection by applying established government standards.  ·    Utilize Netbackup for all management and customer data backup restoration.  ·    Work with senior database administrators to provide an engineered solution for Microsoft SQL and IBM DB2 Netbackup specialized solution  ·    Optimize Netbackup for minimum SAN consumption and maximum data restoration  ·    Troubleshoot Netbackup connectivity issues, client updates, token management, and utilization.  ·    Work with Microsoft Server 2012 R2 (and prior) for networking TCP/IP, DNS, FTP, LAN, VMware, utilize powershell and command prompt.   ·    Installation, Configuration, Administration and Troubleshooting including domain network account creation, deletions and modifications, group modifications, password resets and user related administrative functions.  ·    Utilize stig viewer and sensr to ensure DISA, DOD, CCRI STIG compliance.  ·    Deployment of OS patches across the domain to servers and users as necessary via  WSUS application.  ·     Reimage computers for the customer to utilize on the MGMDC domain.  ·     Reimage blades for server utilization on the CPMDC, CDMDC, CTMDC, CQMDC and MGMDC domains.  ·     Assist in racking and configuring chassis, blade, and server room within data center.  ·     Deploy and configure new Windows servers 2012 R2 for all customer domains and MGMDC domains  ·     Build and configure new Linux servers  ·     Utilize group policy to mandate settings and changes across domains  ·     Utilize VMware for snapshots, server and blade management, and data reports for customer  ·     Assisted in creating new policies for software installation and backup solutions. Npc IT helpdesk tech National Sourcing Inc - Millington, TN January 2015 to May 2017 ·   Worked with various Navy computer systems such as Remedy for request input and assigned tickets to specific technicians.   ·  Assisted members with BUPERS Online questions in regards to their retirement points, OMPF, access requests, BOL accounts, advancements, and Fitrep/Evals.   ·  Created BOL/test accounts and added OMPF access for various levels of access.   ·  Reviewed digital SAAR-Ns and multiple other Navy forms and filed them in system folders for different access levels.   ·  Assisted members with computer settings, records on CDs, corrections to their PSR/OSR/ODC, and other Navy-related matters.   ·  Input requests for the maintenance of various NAVY systems and websites.   ·  Researched customer inquiries to identify issues, diagnose problems, and recommended solutions.  ·   Provided technical assistance to customers and diagnosed BOL production and test site errors.   ·  Provided assistance to reservists on their personal machines when coming across technical and compatibility issues.  ·   Worked with NMCI to troubleshoot issues that navy members come across on NMCI machines.   ·   Trained and supervised new employees. Data entry operator Lockheed martin - Millington, TN April 2014 to January 2015 ·  Performed Quality Assurance function for a wide variety of Navy Forms to include Navy FITREPs and EVALs.   ·  Ensured that forms were completed properly prior to entry into the service members’ Official Military Personnel File (OMPF) with a 99.8% error free rate; proceeded through all form verification and screening stages ahead of schedule.    Education Associate Skills Desktop Support (5 years), Active Directory (3 years), Tech Support (6 years), Windows Server 2008 (2 years), Windows server 2012 R2 (3 years), Redhat 7 (1 year), Netbackup Administration (1 year), vSphere Administration (3 years), Vmware, Powershell, Group policy, Windows 10, Patching Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ June 2017 to Present Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) March 2018 to March 2021 Veritas Netbackup Specialist April 2019 to Present