Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Lead Systems Technician - General Dynamics Information Technology Washington, DC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator General Dynamics Information Technology - Falls Church, VA June 2012 to Present ·        Installed and configured vCenter Server 4.1 to manage 4 ESX 4.1 hosts, 20+ Virtual Machines (VMs) running Windows OS and iSCSIs  ·        Created and implemented Group Policy Objects regarding domain passwords and network share drive mapping.  ·        Develop and Shared Knowledge Base, and How-to Articles of the overall Design of the infrastructure and solutions to potential issues. System Administrator AceInfo Solutions May 2011 to June 2012 • Maintained DSS (Defense Security Services) Active Directory, DHCP and Exchange Servers. Along with providing Tier III support to DSS Employees    • Created, Configured AD user and Computer accounts, Exchange, and provided tier III resolution from Escalated Tier II tickets via Remedy    • Assisted customer via RDP, or directly, face-to-face    • Assisted with Network account lockouts, profile, network printer, and file share error related to security permissions but not limited to. System Administrator II Comtek Network Systems January 2008 to May 2009 • System Administrator II, at Ft Eustis for the Army's' DOIM (directorate of information management) responsible for enforcing Security policies sent from NETCOM, on all machines on Ft. Eustis.    • Responsible for my own geographical set of computers, and users.    • Tasked with keeping assigned computers, vulnerability free with the use of STAT patching tool. Push applications to clients using SMS.    • Resolve user questions and problems efficiently and within assigned SLA parameters.    • Maintained and Administered Exchange, BES, servers. I was last line support for unresolved issues from Tier I. Constant use with Active Directory, Remote Desktop, Unicenter Ticketing system Helpdesk Technician II Assigned to the Norfolk Joint Force Command Headquarters Prosoft November 2007 to January 2008 Supported military personnel with Blackberry issues, printer, network, hardware, and software related issues.    • Tools used to resolve assigned task include but not limited to. Active Directory, SMS, Remedy Tool System.    • All support was given via telephone, and email. Remote desktop was primary means of troubleshooting, and resolving. Helpdesk Technician Milvets October 2006 to November 2007 • Helpdesk representative for the NMCI network (Navy Marine Corp Intranet) supporting civ/military/contractor employees from various computer networks.    • Over 500,000 users and accounts. This is the Navy and Armys computer network.  • Roaming profiles, Active Directory, Microsoft Office and associated programs, Escalated unsolvable issues to BO (base Operations) with the use of remedy. Skills Active Directory (10+ years), Dhcp (10+ years), Vmware (6 years)