Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Lincare Holdings, Inc Hudson, FL To obtain a position as a Systems Administrator where I can leverage my skills and experience to help maintain a stable working environment of applications, servers, and network communications, ensuring continuous operations for the company infrastructure.    SPECIALIZATION System Administrator working with VMware, Microsoft Windows Servers, and SAN devices, while keeping a focus in database administration with Microsoft SQL Server.    TECHNOLOGY Operating Systems; MS Windows 7 & 10, Server 2003 - 2016  Applications; MS SQL Server 2000 - 2016, VMware ESXi, EMC Avamar and Networker, EMC Unity and VNX storage, IBMi 8700, IBM Spectrum replication software. Work Experience Systems Administrator Lincare Holdings, Inc - Clearwater, FL May 2015 to Present Responsible for effective provisioning, installation/configuration, operation and maintenance of systems hardware and software related to infrastructure. Document internal processes for technical support, maintenance and training. Daily monitoring of backups for reporting and resolution of local and remote servers. Setup SQL Server and create maintenance plans and backups. Maintain daily SQL checks to verify SSRS and agent jobs. Troubleshoot and resolve first level SQL issues and escalate as needed. Monitor space issues and growth through PRTG. Extend space issues through VMware and other storage interfaces. Manage 3rd party application and special projects. Work with vendors to coordinate repairs and new installations. Specializing in MSSQL installations, maintenance, backups and restores, daily checks and server performance. Systems Engineer Lightport Inc - Tampa, FL July 2000 to May 2015 Administer, maintain, develop and implement policies and procedures for ensuring the security and integrity of the SQL server databases. Implement database changes, maintain user roles and accounts, maintenance, error checking and database backups and restores. Work with development on performance issues, database capacity issues, and other connection related issues. Responsible for the design, implementation and testing of all new MS SQL database servers in development and production.Administrate Virtual servers on VMWare with IBM ESX servers between remote locations. Work with different VM replication software for disaster recovery plans. Coordinate with consultants for ESX server upgrades and maintenance. Install and maintain company backups utilizing Symantec products; Complete daily files restores, quarterly testing, and resolve failures. Maintain catalogs off site inventory and vendor relations for all client backups for SEC compliance. Administrate IIS Web servers, including security certificates, reports and file monitoring. Setup and maintain DNS servers and name records for internal and external records. Monitor mailbox location and other first level support issues. Manage third party applications for daily administration, backups and upgrades. Manage purchasing, SLAs, and call-outs from multiple vendors for hardware and software maintenance and upgrades. Receive, inventory, distribute new hardware to users. Create an asset tracking database and maintain all new and retired assets for employees. Maintain and trouble shoot workstations and network connectivity issues. Develop process for encrypting disks on laptops. Create, modify and maintain Active Directory user accounts, space quotas, and diagnosis network and hardware connectivity issues, apply MS Windows Updates working with Dell and IBM servers. Manage internal phone system and migrated to a VoIP solution. Monitor and maintain local security with access cards and video monitoring. Assisted with three data center moves and three office relocation projects. MS SQL DBA/Network Administrator Evolutions Healthcare Systems - New Port Richey, FL December 1998 to July 2000 Evaluated the organization's database requirements for MS SQL 6.5/7, developed a solution and implemented a path to convert the company's Access database to MS SQL Server. Designed, purchased and contracted all hardware requirements for the database conversion. Evaluated, purchased and installed software essential for MS SQL Server and licensing. Migrated database schema and security from Access to MS SQL Server. Established maintenance and error checking routines to maintain database integrity and devised processes for database restores, including a disaster recovery plan for SQL Server. Maintained network administration support of 20+ users, printers, LAN connectivity and server administration on HP/Compaq and Dell systems. MS SQL Database Administrator Raymond James Financial - Saint Petersburg, FL August 1996 to December 1998 Maintained and insured database integrity on all MS SQL Server 4.21/6.0/6.5 production relational databases on Compaq servers. Technical advisor to development teams and management on database design issues related to physical database size and performance. Monitor production databases for performance and disk management. Installed and maintained production databases and recovered failed databases. Created, developed and published procedures for completion by nightly operators. Sr. Help Center Analyst Raymond James Financial - Saint Petersburg, FL July 1995 to August 1996 Answered incoming calls and provided first-/second-level support of internal corporate clients. Inspected and routed all Information and Systems requests. Maintained Help Desk database used for call tracking within Raymond James. Responsibilities also included training new team members regarding policies and procedures for the Help Center's inbound calls. Education B.S. degree in Management Information Systems University of South Florida - Tampa, FL 1995 A.A. degree Pasco-Hernando Community College - New Port Richey, FL 1993 Skills Vmware, System Administrator, System Admin, Backup software (10+ years), SQL server administration (10+ years)