Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Los Angeles, CA Experienced and dedicated IT professional with over 10 years of successful experience. Background in front-end desktop and remote support, general troubleshooting and systems administration. Able to simplify complex IT concepts. Seeking opportunities to utilize and expand upon existing skill set. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator IAC - Yonkers, NY July 2013 to April 2019 Tasked with front-end support duties for the IT Services team; often traveling between offices located in Yonkers  and IAC headquarters in New York City, as well as providing technical support to remote users via phone and remote screen sharing software.  ? Use various tools such as Active Directory Users and Computers, OKTA, G Suite, Exchange, O365, command  line/terminal interface, JAMF, etc. to perform daily duties.  ? Provide leadership and resources for multiple IT consulting staff based in New York City, Boulder and Dublin  O  offices. wn lead tech role and delegate work as required.  ? Maintain strong relationships with other teams within the organization, e.g. Human Resources and DevOPS, and consult with team leaders as needed.  ? Perform as a member of an Agile team, using JIRA and Scrum to log and efficiently manage all helpdesk  requests/stories, projects and execute within given Agile Sprint. Held bi-weekly Story pointing sessions with IT  Services team.  ? Maintain hardware inventory and frequently process purchase order requisitions for equipment and software.  ? Implement, automate and execute streamlined process for new employee/hire setup and orientation.  ? Create and maintain up-to-date and secure Gold Master image for deployment of operating systems and applications on laptop and desktop systems.  ? Manage office VOIP telephony system to include setting up extensions, call forwarding, conference phones etc.  ? Travel to remote offices located in Seattle, Boulder, Oakland and Dublin as either part of a project, to perform  maintenance work, or to aid in an office shutdown.  ? Facilitate company town halls using remote conferencing software such as Zoom and BlueJeans and using  Tandberg/Cisco hardware and other audio/visual equipment. Functional Technology Specialist Child Youth and School - Brooklyn, NY July 2008 to June 2013 Provide network and desktop computer technical support.  ? Install, manage, upgrade and support Child Youth Management Software (CYMS) database front-end application.  ? Generate monthly financial and statistical reports from CYMS database.  ? Setup, maintain and supervise multiple computer/technology labs at the Fort Hamilton Youth Center.  ? Implement technology curriculum using guidelines and templates provided by CYSS, for youth grades K-12 during after-school hours and summer break.  ? Maintain partnerships with non-profit organizations such as 4-H for mentoring and continued education.  ? Troubleshoot point-of-sale systems based on CYMS and RecTrac software.  ? Setup audio/video and web conferencing devices.  ? Manage video surveillance system and all related components. Technical Support Specialist ICCS & Co. LLC - New York, NY March 2007 to July 2008 IT consultant role, requiring travel to various clients located throughout the New York City metro area.  ? Provide on and off-site computer hardware, software, networking and printer/copier/scanner technical support and troubleshooting.  ? Generate detailed support documentation using company's helpdesk ticket system.  ? Use Active Directory to manage user accounts, distribution and security groups.  ? Perform regular Windows 2003 server maintenance including patch update installation, hard drive space cleanup  and regular backups.  ? Deploy and maintain desktop computers, laptops, servers and handheld devices such as Blackberry and iPhone.  ? Setup server room networking rack, cable management systems and uninterrupted power supplies.  ? Install wiring infrastructure for use with Avaya Voice-over-IP telephony system.  ? Facilitate client office relocations. Information Systems Management Volunteer USAG Fort Hamilton - Brooklyn, NY August 2006 to January 2007 Setup user workstations, printers and other related hardware.  ? Troubleshoot hardware, software and network connectivity issues on point-of-sales computers.  ? Provide Microsoft Office Suite training.  ? Run networking cables and install network drops. Terminate RJ45 Ethernet cables. Education A.A.S in Electromechanical Engineering City University of New York College of Technology - Brooklyn, NY Skills Active directory, Cisco, Dns, Exchange, Tcp/ip, Dhcp, Network troubleshooting, Tcp, Vmware, Vpn, Jira, Android, Ios, Authentication, Multi-factor authentication, Sso, Saas, Ftp, Linux, Symantec, Information Technology, Desktop Support, It Specialist, Help Desk