Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> New York, NY Work Experience Systems Administrator Anchorage Capital Group, LLC - New York, NY February 2012 to July 2019 Provide technical support to Anchorage employees (150+) including VIP users. Worked to deploy AirWatch MDM solution and assisted on the conversion from physical to virtual computers as well as Avaya to Cisco phones for the entire company. Also helped setup the disaster recovery site in Secaucus, New Jersey that includes 25 employee desks which is utilized once a year for testing. Daily tasks include setting up all new hires, building their computers and on-boarding all their technical needs. Troubleshooting any computer, phone, mobile or remote connectivity issues that arise. Handle all video-conferencing needs throughout the company and work closely with admins to coordinate. Manage all printers. Daily applications utilized include: vSphere, Horizon View, Goverlan, Active Directory, Exchange, Cisco CUCM/CUC, AirWatch, Blackberry Work. Applications to troubleshoot include: Bloomberg, Front Arena, Tableau, Saleslogix, Horizon, as well as mobile devices. Field Engineer Eze Castle Integration - New York, NY January 2011 to January 2012 Work scheduled hours at multiple hedge funds throughout New York as an onsite presence to attend to the technical needs of the clients.  Managed backups and handled desktop issues. In January 2011, started working at Anchorage Capital as a contractor until being hired on full-time the following February. Help Desk Technician Eze Castle Integration - New York, NY July 2009 to January 2011 Provide technical phone support to employees from 200+ clients throughout mostly New York, Boston and London. Issues I would troubleshoot include Exchange, Outlook, Office, Bloomberg as well as Avaya phone systems. Have escalation points if unable to resolve the issue myself or there is a need for an on-site presence. Education Bachelor's in Informatics Indiana University-Bloomington - Bloomington, IN September 1998 to May 2003 Skills Active Directory, System Administrator, Vmware