Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network engineer Columbus, OH Versatile and results-focused Senior IT Service support Engineer and Team Lead with a Cisco certification at CCNP level. Confident communicator and presenter committed to effective working partnerships at all levels and across cultures. Proactive and methodical problem solver dedicated to delivering cost effective customer IT solutions within infrastructure management, network and system engineering, security and system design and deployment, across the pharmaceutical, financial sectors and telecom sector. Work Experience Systems Administrator Corvit Systems - Dubai, AE April 2015 to August 2019 Key responsibilities included: problem resolution and root cause analysis; Cisco switches and routers configurations to Layer 3; routing protocols and internet domain services; redundancy and upgrades; network management systems; vendor management; network documentation; traffic analysis. Systems Administrator Insta Systems - Torrance, CA January 2010 to February 2015 Core responsibilities include: back office support; telecommunications; troubleshooting employee complaints; design, maintenance and evaluation of the network.  Key areas of expertise include: computer and mobile forensics; network and systems engineering; pre-sales engineering; network infrastructure; systems deployment and administration. Education Master of Networking and Communication Management in Information Security Keller Graduate School of Management April 2015 Skills Active directory, Bgp, Cisco, Ciscoworks, Eigrp, Layer 2, Mpls, Network operations, Ospf, Vmware, Vpn, Exchange, Networking, Openview, Ppp, Routing protocols, Security, Internet security and acceleration server, Microsoft internet security and acceleration server, Disaster recovery Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching Present Additional Information Skills    ? 09 years of technical networking and telecommunications experience including: network infrastructure; engineering; system deployments and administration; network operations and design; planning and implementation; network management; network provisioning; defining security and usage policies; maintenance; installations; configurations and upgrades; implementing and supporting disaster recovery.    ? Configured, maintained, supported and troubleshot Layer 2/3/Core and Access Networks including (Cisco Core/Edge Switches and Core/Edge routers) locally and remote sites in different. Diagnosed the Cisco base IOS of various versions of Cisco XRv 12000, Nexus 1000, 2000, IOS based 65xx, 55xx, 45xx, 38xx, 37xx, 36xx, 35xx, 2950xx, 28xx, 26xx switches and routers. Firewall configuration experience of ASA 5550/5520/5510.    ? Troubleshot connectivity issues and hardware problems on Cisco-based networks. Configured Cisco VPN client on routers, MPLS, VPN V4/6, and VPN over TE Tunnels and Failover VPN Multicast VPN. Practical experience of using CiscoWorks VMS for 1st line maintenance and reporting, Solar Winds Enterprise, Cisco Security Manager, Cisco Security Device Manager, Cisco Call Manager 5.5, Cisco Express and Kiwi Cat tool.    ? Expertise in routing protocols (including OSPF, BGPv4/6, RIP, EIGRP, EBGP, Static, IS-IS and MP-BGP). Practical experience of configuring: HSRP; PPP; VPLS; frame relays; static and dynamic TE Tunnels; ACL; Filtering; Route-map; STP; RSTP; MSTP; Q-in-Q; BGP; CSC configurations. Practical experience of isolating network problems using NA sniffer, Network Flow Analyzers and HP OpenView.    Installed, maintained and resolved technical issues involving Microsoft's core business applications. This included: Windows Server 2003/2008/2012/2016; Exchange 5.5/2000/2003/2007; Microsoft Internet Security and Acceleration Server; MS Visio; MS Project; Active Directory; VPN Server with DynDNS configuration, Hyper V, VMware. Visio and sever server and end user applications.    Communications and Interpersonal  ? Confident communicator and presenter committed to representing the business and responding to customers' networking issues. Worked closely with individuals at all levels and adapted easily across diverse cultures. Established and nurtured positive and effective long-term business partnerships and strong customer service across all working environments.    ? Met with customers to understand their technical requirements and establish proposals. Liaised with forensic analysts, law enforcement officers and legal experts to identify and recommend methods and procedures for recovery, preservation and the presentation of computer evidence. Prepared clear and comprehensive notes and reports of findings; testified those findings in judicial proceedings.    ? Delivered high quality output and standards. Achieved this through outstanding planning and organization, prioritization, meeting customer deadlines and exceptional attention to detail and accuracy. Prepared technical proposals and offers; generated a bill of materials for quotations.    ? Collaborative, highly motivated and proactive team player able to fully empower and energies team members. Led teams efficiently to meet customer deadlines and tackle issues through ownership, shared information, training and productive exchanges.