Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Experienced Systems & Network Administrator w/Cisco CCNA-Security Kingsport, TN Systems Administration, Networking, Virtualization, and General IT Support Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Lux Enterprises - Bristol, VA January 2019 to Present Aerus, Inc (Lux Enterprises) – Bristol, VA – Systems Administrator – Jan 2019 – Present  I am responsible for a wide variety of support including  • Windows server 2003 through 2016 in 500+ AD environment  • Locally hosted MS Exchange 2010 and Lync 2013 administration  • Migrating non-employee email from Exchange 2010 to low cost Linux-based solution (Poste.io email server)  • Zabbix and LibreNMS network/ system monitoring installation and management  • WSUS and WDS management  • Assist Help Desk/Desktop Sppt with user support and special projects  • BackupExec and Veeam management IT Contractor ANA Construction - Kingsport, TN January 2019 to Present I handle all aspects of IT and phone management for a friend’s construction company in evenings and on weekends including:  • VMWare VSphere 6.7 on Dell server with a QNAP NAS  • Small Active Directory structure running on Windows 2016 server  • Various network/firewall devices  • PCs running Windows 10, Office 2016, Quickbooks, and some CAD/design tools Network Administrator Industrial Electronics Services, Inc. - Gray, TN February 2015 to Present I am responsible for the entire sphere of technology from desktop support through network administration, including the manufacturing side. I have rebuilt the disaster recovery system, rebuilt network backbone, and made numerous process improvements. I have also brought customer service, responsibility, and trust back to the IT Dept. I also saved the company thousands in IT budgetary costs through .  ·        Windows 03 through 2012 with AD and locally hosted Exchange 2013  ·        SQL 08 through 2016 in various configurations including Made2Mange ERP system  ·        VMWare Vsphere 5.5 with 30 VMs, Dell Compellent SAN, Wintel racked servers  ·        Cisco and Dell Managed switching and routing  ·        Sonicwall perimeter and email security systems  ·        AlienVault SIEM/LM system for DFARS/NIST compliance  ·        Repair and break/fix on all desktop, server, and network hardware Contract - Help Desk Lead and SME XMS Solutions - Durham, NC October 2014 to November 2014 This was a 2 month project with a large research firm in Research Triangle Park. I was Lead Technician to a group of Help Desk representatives supporting user issues resulting from the migration. Usual calls involve editing registry settings for user profile, working in AD, tying the user profile to the AD SID  ·        Active Directory in a mixed 08/03 environment of 5K users worldwide  ·        Deep level desktop support: registry editing and user profile manipulation across AD domains  ·        Supervision/Subject Matter Expert, point of escalation Owner/Lead Technician Fugate Technology Systems - Kingsport, TN January 2014 to August 2014 Started my own IT Service Provider business for home users and small to medium businesses.   ·        MS Windows XP/Vista/7 desktop OS and corresponding desktop and laptop hardware  ·        Windows 2000/2003/2008 Server OS and corresponding hardware  ·        VMWare ESX (as well as VMWare Workstation and Microsoft Virtual PC and Hyper-V)  ·        Various network storage technologies  ·        Cisco and other managed networking principals  ·        Repair and break/fix on all desktop, server, and network hardware Network Administrator Teksystems - Bulls Gap, TN April 2013 to December 2013 Teksystems placed me with Barrette to assist them with several projects. This includes migrating 2 domains into their domain, migrating their email environment from Exchange 2003 to Exchange 2010, restoring several mailboxes from backups to PST using ExMerge, and overhauling their Sharepoint disaster recovery plan to ensure farm, site, and document recovery is possible. I also assisted with Cisco networking support, Active Directory support, VMware support, and other duties as needed.  ·        Windows 2003/2008r2/2012 (Active Directory/DNS/GPO/permissions/etc.)  ·        Cisco Networking (switch, router, & ASA Firewall)  ·        VMWare VSphere 5.1 administration  ·        BackupExec and Veeam disaster recovery  ·        Repair and break/fix on all desktop, server, and network hardware Systems Administrator GA Communications - Stone Mountain, GA October 2012 to March 2013 My primary responsibilities included Windows Active Directory; Exchange 2010 clustered environment, MS Lync 2010, and a VMWare environment consisting of 20+ hosts at 9 locations running 400+ VM’s on 3 different models of Dell SAN equipment. In addition, I managed the backup with the IT Manager with the Juniper firewalls and VPN devices; with the Brocade/Foundry switching and routing; and the Avaya IP Office phone system. I also backup the Desktop Admin with the 400+ Mac desktops throughout the enterprise. I took a primary role in supporting the 53 Windows desktops. I also built some VMs running Solaris and Red Hat Enterprise as well so I am somewhat familiar with those operating systems. I was the primary support person for the Red Hat. I was also responsible for repairing and break/fixing on all desktop, server, and network hardware. Sr Network Engineer Networking and Computer Connection - Johnson City, TN January 2012 to July 2012 My responsibilities Network Engineer included leading the Engineer staff, training coworkers on new technologies, and participating in day to day activities with clients, and special projects as needed or designated. It required a mix of high and low level technical skills and excellent level of customer service to ensure that the client’s technical issues were solved quickly and correctly. I visited or remotely accessed 3 to 4 clients sites daily assisting with a mixture of the following:   ·        MS Windows XP/Vista/7 desktop OS  ·        Windows 2000/2003/2008/2012 Server OS   ·        VMWare ESX (as well as VMWare Workstation and Microsoft Virtual PC and Hyper-V)   ·        Various network storage technologies  ·        Netgear, Cisco, and HP networking products (switches, routers, etc.)  ·        HP, Intel, Nexlink, and IBM servers, laptops, and desktop systems  ·        Repair and break/fix on all desktop, server, and network hardware Network Engineer Saratoga Technologies - Johnson City, TN January 2011 to December 2011 My responsibilities at Saratoga include both Network Engineer and Help Desk responsibilities. I provided not only excellent technical skills to the clients but also an advanced level of customer service. I visited or remotely accessed 3 to 4 clients sites daily assisting with a mixture of the following:  • MS Windows XP/Vista/7 desktop OS  • Windows 2000/2003/2008 Server OS  • VMWare ESX (as well as VMWare Workstation and Microsoft Virtual PC and Hyper-V)  • Watchguard, Cisco, and HP networking products (switches, routers, etc.)  • Dell, HP, and IBM servers, laptops, and desktop systems Systems Engineer Cormetech, Inc - Durham, NC September 2010 to January 2011 My responsibilities at Cormetech involve supporting the VMWare infrastructure of 8 hosts and 30 VM's running in conjuction with an EMC Celerra NAS (iSCSI with both CIFS and NFS volumes). I also assumed responsibility for backups and disaster recovery (Symantec Backup Exec 2012 backing up to a Data Domain device), Windows Server 2000/2003/2008 (AD, policies, WSUS, etc.), networking (Cisco firewalls and routers with Dell switches), MS Exchange 07, and many others. Systems Administrator Wilson Pharmacy - Johnson City, TN July 2010 to July 2010 Wilson hired me in a transition period for the company as a SysAdmin to handle Windows and VMWare as well as support Linux-based terminals connection to 2003/2008 terminal servers. They had been bought out by a larger company and ended up cutting all IT staff a few months later. VMWare Administrator GA Communications - Stone Mtn, GA May 2010 to July 2010 I was primarily responsible for the VMWare infrastructure involving 8 data centers, 15 host servers, and 143 virtual machines. This environment consisted of of Windows 2000/2003/2008 servers, several Sun Solaris servers, and even a few virtualized Mac systems. I maintained all backups of production Oracle and MS SQL databases and backups for the SANs. I took a major role in assisting with the Windows servers, Active Directory, Windows PC's, and SQL and Exchange 2007/2010. I served as the primary help desk contact for 2nd shift personnel. I left this contract to return to TN for a full-time opportunity. IT Support Technician Minco, Inc - Midway, TN January 2008 to May 2010 I was primarily responsible for the VMWare infrastructure involving 8 data centers, 15 host servers, and 143 virtual machines. This environment consisted of of Windows 2000/2003/2008 servers, several Sun Solaris servers, and even a few virtualized Mac systems. I maintained all backups of production Oracle and MS SQL databases and backups for the SANs. I took a major role in assisting with the Windows servers, Active Directory, Windows PC’s, and SQL and Exchange 2007/2010. I served as the primary help desk contact for 2nd shift personnel. I left this contract to return to TN for a full-time opportunity. I was also responsible for repair and break/fix on all desktop, server, and network hardware Sales Associate/Tech Cates Music Store - Johnson City, TN August 2004 to May 2010 Second job - part-time on weekends) I worked at Cates in a Saturday only situation and occasionally on Sundays or weekdays to fill in the gap in sales and service. I swept floors, tuned instruments, and worked with customers to find solutions to their needs in musical instruments and supplies.    Operated my own computer business - Jonesborough, TN - Apr 03 to Oct 04  I assisted customers mainly with home or small office computer and network issues. I also worked with troubleshooting various computer issues from new printer installs to updating peripherals. I closed the business when my wife became ill and gave birth to premature baby. Desktop Support Technician Edwards and Associates, Inc - Piney Flats, TN March 2007 to January 2008 As a Desktop Support Technician, I completed help desk tickets ranging from replacing mice/keyboards to complex MRP issues involving the entire IT team. Edwards took advantage of my audio/visual and laptop expertise and allowed me acquire some experience troubleshooting Oracle/SQL in a Windows 03 server environment as a system user. I revamped the hard drive images, introduced the department to Bart's PE boot CD's, and setup the sysprep.inf to completely automate the mini-setup. In addition, I assisted the Sys Amin/Net Engineer on projects and as directed. I resigned this position due to the company contracting most IT work out to CSC to be handled remotely. IT staff SysAdmin 2003 to 2008 to handle Windows and VMWare as well as support Linux-based terminals connection to 2003/2008 terminal servers. They kept me 2 weeks then fired me. They had been bought out by a larger company and ended up cutting all IT staff a few months later. Remote - Warranty Technician ASM Computer Consulting, Inc October 2006 to March 2007 Representing Dell and Gateway, I worked for ASM supporting Unisys. We handled all desktop/laptop support for East TN, VA, and Western NC. A typical incident would involve setting an appointment, arriving on time, replacing the part(s), updating BIOS and drivers, and calling support if the problem was not corrected so corrections could be made. This company is no longer in business and will not return phone calls to verify employment. Computer Technician Indian Trail Middle School - Johnson City, TN December 2005 to October 2006 I assist the students, faculty, and staff by supporting the hardware/software/network functionality on over 250 PC's and by supporting the audio/visual systems. When I started, 60% of the computers in the building were non-fuctional and about 30% of the wireless mics did not work. In the first 90 days I created a new hard drive images vastly improving the old and outdated computers, created Windows XP Pro images for newer systems, fixed numerous audio/visual issues, and developed a 5-year technology plan to avoid a repeat of that situation. I was the only computer tech in 8 years to maintain flawless operation of theAccelerated Reader application, the main student reading test program. Data Technician Outsource, Incorporated - Kingsport, TN March 2001 to April 2003 As a PC/Data Technician for the Outsource, Inc. contract with Sprint FastConnect DSL, I covered the major Johnson City area including 16 DSL centers from Mountain City to Greenevile. My responsibilities included ordering/maintaining my own tools and equipment, reporting to both Sprint and Outsource management, providing a high level of customer care, ensuring that local customer settings are in sync with regional/national settings, ensuring that sales personnel accuracy. This job required familiarity with various computer/network setups and telco wiring. Desktop Technician Citi Commerce Solutions - Gray, TN September 1995 to March 2001 I started in Technical Support with Prodigy, Inc. in the Teleservices dept. I assisted customers in solving technical issues related to Prodigy services. I also performed training, coaching, new procedure development, and quality control. I moved to the Information Technology Department in April, 1998. There I assisted users with general software, hardware and network connectivity issues. This involved high attention to detail and a good attitude toward the internal customers that I dealt with. I also supported in-house application development team with new product rollouts and testing. Education A.A.S. Northeast State Technical Community College May 1998 Skills Vmware VCP (8 years), System Administrator (10+ years), Cisco CCNA:Security, Windows Server (10+ years), Network Administration (8 years), Desktop Support (10+ years), SQL (4 years), Windows 10 (2 years), Windows 7 (7 years), Cyber Security (5 years), Vmware, Ccna, Cisco, Mcse, Active Directory, Networking, Technical Support, Windows, System Admin Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/johnfugate Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) October 2018 to October 2021 CCNA:Security Additional Information •MS Windows 2000/2003/2008/2012/2016 Server (Active Directory, Networking, Security, Various Svcs)  •VMWare ESX 3.5/VSphere 4 & 5.5 (plus VCloud Suite, Workstation, and Fusion)  •Veeam and VRanger replication/disaster recovery for VMWare environments  •EMC, Dell, and QNAP Networked Storage (SAN/NAS)  •MS SQL Server 2000 through 2012  •MS Exchange Server 2003/2007/2010/2013 configuration/administration/support  •Switching, routing, and firewalls of various brands (Cisco, Dell, HPE, Sonicwall)  •Mobile phone support: Apple, Android, Windows, Blackberry  •General phone support: Intertel, Mytel, Nortel, Panasonic  •Strong Windows desktop skills with large variety of business situations  •Mac OS in the enterprise