Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - WORLD WIDE MIND Northridge, CA • Selected to build standardized program and train employees at varying levels of expertise on network operations.  • Chosen as the primary liaison with clinic staff at all levels to define software, hardware, and network requirements,  covering a wide array of IT solutions which elevate workflow, increase efficiencies, and reduce costs by up to 30%.  • Ensured the best possible service and support when traveling to customer clinics to assess current strategies,  planning timescales, resources, requirements, and the creation of relevant solutions; spearheaded the Network  Upgrade project which improved overall reporting for the organization, cutting down related accuracy issues by  20%.  • Advanced system availability and equip company with scalable systems to support fast business growth, including  use of the Hyper-V solution which involved server consolidation and virtualization impacting 300 employees.  • Aligned with up to 10 staff in testing and gauging the efficacy of existing systems; handle tactical and strategic  planning to deliver on all organizational objectives while under heavy workload. Work Experience Systems Administrator WORLD WIDE MIND 2012 to Present Introduced and maintain state-of-the-art methodologies for verifying the integrity of all hardware, server resources, systems, and key processes, reviewing system and application logs, and verifying completion of jobs; efforts cited as  crucial to a drastic increase in productivity as well as driving continuous improvement to the overall IT function.  . Handle regular security monitoring to identify any possible intrusions, and implemented unique procedures to better assess risks and elevate patching cadence within a logistically complex environment.  . Regularly implemented disaster recovery policies in order to assure business continuity.  . Built a tailored service platform to more efficiently manage numerous user accounts, as well as offer Tier III/other  support, troubleshoot issues, repair/recover from hardware/software failures, and communicate with users;  realized an 45% upsurge in average user satisfaction ratings within only 3 months.  . Streamlined all aspects of performance tuning, hardware upgrades, and resource optimization as part of a larger  organizational continuous improvement effort, receiving commendations from management for technical acumen.  . Perform exhaustive evaluation of industry trends and new technologies to improve administration efforts, including  configuring CPU/memory/disk partitions, as well as maintaining data center environmental/monitoring equipment.  . Administer Office 365 and Active Directory for all users.  . Minor PowerShell used in automating certain tasks.  • (323) 440-1229 • Robiz77@gmail.com Systems Administrator BIRMINGHAM COMMUNITY CHARTER HIGH SCHOOL - Van Nuys, CA 2010 to 2019 Showcase superb attention to detail in analyzing large volumes of network activity and network related issues to discover and prevent systematic errors, utilizing multiple strategies to address and resolve various high-priority risks.  . Coordinate with up to 10 staff in testing and gauging the efficacy of existing systems; handle tactical and strategic  planning to deliver on all organizational objectives while under heavy workload.  . Sought as a subject matter expert within various Windows/Mac environments, including with configuring, monitoring, upgrading, and maintaining systems hardware, software and related infrastructure; advocated for and  i  mplemented innovative methodologies to achieve 24/7 uptime and improved stability/redundancy.  . Demonstrate superlative analytical skills while establishing clear, reliable lines of communications with cross- functional technicians to troubleshoot complex system-level issues.  . Optimize system availability and equip company with scalable systems to support fast business growth, including use  of the Hyper-V solution which involved server consolidation and virtualization impacting 300 employees.  . Elected to build standardized program and train employees at varying levels of expertise on network operations.  . Assisted in administering Windows 2012 and 2016 servers.  . Disaster recover system employed the use of DATTO. Education MATRIX INSTITUTE ON ADDICTIONS - Los Angeles, CA 2016 to 2019 Bachelor of Science in Information Technology University of Phoenix 2016 Associate of Science in Electronics and Computer Technology DeVry University 2009 Skills Systems administration, Customer service, Requirements gathering, Training Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/roberto-izarraras Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES  . Systems Administration. Information Technology. Project Management  . Troubleshooting. Leadership & Collaboration. Requirements Gathering  . Technical Training. Installations/Configurations. Data Storage  . Customer Service. Communication. Solution Development