Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - KLEINBANK Carver, MN Work Experience Systems Administrator KLEINBANK August 2008 to Present Primary focus is to provide service and support for windows server environment and network infrastructure.    Key Contributions:  • Updated the infrastructure from physical servers to a 100% virtual environment. Developed and maintained the VMware Horizon View virtual desktop environment that hosted 98% of the end user applications throughout the organization.  • Support of the bank's 23 branch locations with 400 total users.  • Perform all levels of hardware and software systems support for 135 Microsoft Windows Servers.  • Provide installation, configuration and support of PC software operating systems and application software to integrate with current network architecture to provide the information access needs of the organization.  • Develop and implement approved data backup and system disaster recovery plans.  • Assist with hardware and software implementation, upgrading and troubleshooting activities.  • Performed hands-on administration, monitoring, and troubleshooting of Local Area Network (LAN), resulting in optimum performance and minimum downtime.  • Maintain system procedures and documentation.  • Performed security patches and updates for servers, workstations and devices.. Network Systems Administrator KLEINBANK - Chaska, MN March 2004 to Present Network Support Manager KLEINBANK June 2007 to August 2008 Responsible for supervising the IT helpdesk team (five employees) and communication with application support team.    Key Contributions:  • Develop and documented procedures for network configuration and system monitoring and ensure that SLA standards are being met.  • Respond timely manner to all user request, inquires and problems on all processing systems. This includes: ITI Navigator, Platform, Director, Mark IV, Rembrandt Loan Documentation System, peripheral applications, Microsoft Operating System and Software issues. Aided technical and operations staff in responding to user request. Help Desk / Application Support Tier 3 KLEINBANK March 2005 to June 2007 Provided Helpdesk phone support, procedural support, education and training to employees and departments.    Key Contributions:  • Assisted in the design, development and management of the customer service department (Helpdesk)  • Assisted with new bank conversions, mergers and branch additions.  • Assisted with the installation, releases and upgrade of software applications.  • Assisted in the maintenance of the documentation for Policy and Procedure manual, Disaster Recovery manual and all ITI and Unisys documentation. Help Desk / Application Support Tier 1 KLEINBANK March 2004 to March 2005 Responsible for providing first contact support for end users on software and hardware systems, utilized by employees, by providing primary support via telephone, e-Mail or helpdesk tracking system. These responsibilities also include local support at each of the 23 branch locations. Information Technology Consultant CONTROL STUFF INC - Cologne, MN August 2001 to March 2004 Responsible for setting up Industrial Computers for Industrial Control and automation projects, which included ordering all computer and networking components, also installing Rockwell Automation Software Components and Wonderware Intouch software. Computer Programmer RURAL COMPUTER CONSULTANTS - Bird Island, MN January 2000 to August 2001 Converted and enhanced Rural Computer Consultants Fuel Distribution Software Package programmed in Cobol and converted it to Synergy (DIBOL) programs. The Fuel Distribution Software consisted of modules for Accounts Payable, Fuel Tracking and Distribution, Job Costing, Inventory, General Ledger and Payroll. Helpdesk Computer Technician ST. CLOUD STATE UNIVERSITEY - Saint Cloud, MN May 1996 to January 2000 Academic Computer Services Helpdesk  Primary responsibilities involved responding to Academic department requests for technical support on hardware and software products. Assisted students, faculty and staff in the resolution of problems, determined problem areas and provide operational assistance, fixes. Responsibilities also included updating Academic Networking Support and departments regarding status of computer issues throughout the campus and recommendations for improvements in technology. Education Bachelor of Science in Speech Communication ST. CLOUD STATE UNIVERISTY - Saint Cloud, MN 1999 Skills Active Directory (10+ years), Avamar (2 years), Citrix (6 years), Microsoft Windows and Office Applications (10+ years), VMware vSphere - Virtual Server Management (8 years), Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Planning (6 years), VMware Horizon View Desktop Management (5 years), Microsoft Windows Server Operating Systems (10+ years), Microsoft Exchange 2013 (5 years), EMC Unity SAN (2 years), Server Virtualization technology (6 years), Vmware, System Administrator, System Admin, SCCM Additional Information Key Skills  • Microsoft Windows Server 2008 / 2012 /2016  • Microsoft Operating Systems Windows 7 & 10  • Microsoft Exchange 2013  • Microsoft SharePoint Moss 2013  • Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager  • Backup Software: EMC Networker and Avamar    • VMware vSphere & Site Recovery Manager  • VMware View Horizons Desktop  • SolarWinds IP monitoring System  • Citrix 4.5 Platinum environment  • Active Directory and Group Policy Management  • Mitel Phone and Voicemail support