Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Haymarket, VA Detail-oriented professional with over 9.5 years of experience and  a proven knowledge of IT systems, processes, and procedures  aiming to leverage my skills to successfully fill the Systems  Administrator role at your company. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator The Scylla Group - Warrenton, VA June 2018 to August 2019 • Administration of client Windows server 2008/2012/2016  environments including OS installation and configuration,   file and print services, Hyper-V virtual environment configuration and management,   backup and patch management.  • Administration of client Active Directory environments  including the management of user and computer accounts,  group memberships, and the testing and deployment of  Group Policy.  • Management of client Microsoft Office 365 environments and assist  the Exchange administrator with migrations from Microsoft  Exchange to Office 365.   • Windows/Mac desktop administration including patch  management, anti-virus management, configuration and  deployment of new systems, testing and deployment of  software solutions, and tier 1-3 help desk support.  • Basic network administration and support including the  configuration and deployment of network devices and the  management of Fortigate and Sonicwall Firewalls.  • Creation of strong procedural and technical documentation. SYSTEMS ANALYST CompTIA A+ - Centreville, VA March 2011 to May 2018 Windows and Mac desktop administration including patch  management, anti-virus management and the testing and deployment of software solutions via third-party  management systems, configuration and deployment of new  systems, and inventory/life cycle management of IT  resources.  iOS and Android mobile administration.  User management including Active Directory account  creation, group membership assignments, and Exchange  mailbox and distribution list creation and management.  Work with IT management, upper management and the various business units to craft policies, procedures and  technical documentation around the use of corporate IT  resources.  Provide excellent customer service and and tier 1 - 2 help  desk support to over 600 company employees including a field staff of over 200 across the country. Education B.S. in Computer Information Science ECPI UNIVERSITY - Manassas, VA July 2012 Skills Windows server administration, Desktop administration, Mac OS X, Help desk support, Active Directory management, Office 365 management, Hyper-V configuration and management, Group Policy management, Patch management, Anti-virus management, Basic network administration and troubleshooting., File and print services, Active Directory, System Admin, System Administrator Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Systems Administrator (MCSA) March 2018 to Present CompTIA Security+ 2011 to Present CompTIA Network+ 2011 to Present CompTIA A+ 2011 to Present Additional Information • Strong written and oral communications skills.  • Strong interpersonal skills.  • Detail-oriented.  • Self-starting.  • Hard working and highly motivated.