Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - EPICHIRTECH Washington, DC Seeking a Position as a Linux Systems Administrator. I prefer a position within a company with growth possibilities. I will consider any level of System Administrator position from mid to Senior level with management duties in a mixed or single Linux system environment  • Proficient analytical skills, excellent communication, and interpersonal skills; proven ability to work within a team, independent, or in collaboration with various IT professionals as well as disciplines to troubleshoot and resolve simple and complex system-level discrepancies.  • Competent systems administrator with at least 5 years of System Administration, IT infrastructure operations, and management. Experience in hardware and software installation, knowledge of IT security infrastructure and tools, and experience in patch management. Installing, compiling and configuring applications and related infrastructure over diverse platforms (RedHat, CentOS, Ubuntu, Kali, etc.)  • Team Lead with abilities to manage both IT personnel and non-IT personnel to tackle the job at hand.  • Knowledge of PCI Compliance, vulnerability assessments and research, vulnerability scanning tools and design.  • Over the years, I have had the experience and working knowledge of various tools/software within my working environment. The ability to grasp new applications, software and knowledge and use my experience to learn new technology gives me the edge in a fast pace administrator role.  • Eligible to obtain a public trust clearance and/or security clearance if required. Work Experience Systems Administrator EPICHIRTECH - Alexandria, VA March 2014 to Present • Linux OS Engineer  - Proficient in multiple distributions of Linux OS. Daily use and maintenance of Ubuntu, Redhat, CentOS, Open Suse, Kali, and Fedora Linux.  • Support Team  - Daily customer relations with handling support tickets with Jira. Keeping and maintaining SLAs with clients in regards to assistance, support, and service while staying above industry standard. Utilizing multiple support tools to make sure that every client/customer issues are resolve in a timely fashion.  • Software Analyst  - Work with product testing, Quality Assurance, creating and testing bug fix and new feature request cases to stay in track with the product Roadmap and working directly with the Developers to ensure that the software is working efficiently. Assist with product design and new features addition to the software. Reading and editing bash scripts.  • Network testing and security.  - Use various tools like Nmap, Telnet, Ping, netstat, to scan targets and help with verifying the working of the software. Studying vulnerabilities within a network, and a working knowledge of Pen-Testing with different products. Running exploits for internal and external networks while using various tools to test vulnerabilities.  • System Installation and Maintenance  - Participate in the overall installation of VMware on multiple systems, both client and server settings. Carry out and assist with installing various operating systems (RedHat 6, 7, CentOS, and Ubuntu Linux) on virtual and physical machines, which also include deployments of servers. Establishing and creating of file systems, manage large numbers of user accounts, create and manage logical volumes when need be, and keeping track of volume performance and logs. In some cases, modify and applied scripts in different environment to automate several processes and daily activities to increase productivity, response time, and to maintain a high percentage in service level agreements. Participate in regular and scheduled administrative tasks which comprised server tuning and maintenance across multiple platforms, provided junior to mid-level support on Linux/windows systems and perform vendor-specific maintenance on all systems whenever prompted.  • Ticket Resolution and end client support.  - Daily customer relations with handling service tickets and change request with Jira and Remedy. At time of arrival, create documentation and reports on issues resolve or escalated. Handle majority of issues revolving around user account access, password configuration, user account creations and remote access clients. Working directly with clients, a working knowledge of Network File Sharing, Network configuration during server installation, and various network troubleshooting tools/commands are part of my daily duties.  • Troubleshooting and application support.  - Monitor logs, messages, using Nagios and Uptime in addition to monitoring live servers to maintain systems processed and operations. Write basic shell scripts and implement scripts to help with keeping track of monitoring reports. Escalate reports/tickets whenever needed to upper level support (Developers). Assist as well as occasionally spear-headed with application support, troubleshooting network issues, physical machines including workstations. As part of the Administrator team, configuring, compiling, installing, patching, of applications, and machines on both physical and virtual environment is one of my major job duties. Whenever need to, install and configure PostFix, and supporting SendMail  • Team Work capabilities.  - In some cases, I participated in data migration, testing prior to system upgrades, and working cohesively with DBAs and Network teams within the overall infrastructure of the environment. My knowledge with MySQL is within a team and working closely with DBAs.  • System Administrator capabilities  - Administer user accounts to various clients, configuring sudo access, password measures, remote access and creation of the user accounts. In some cases, create group polices and working knowledge of the domain name server. My daily routine comprises of providing tier I and II support whenever needed for an enterprise environment (5000+ servers, including virtual machines). Implement scripts to automate routine and schedule task, especially help with vaults of backup media in case for disaster recovery. Working knowledge of versions of Agile to monitor performance and using multiple Linux tools like Uptime, top monitoring solutions to assist with system checks and monitoring. Earlier in the contract, I participated in an upgrade project from older Linux distributions to newer versions of RedHat and CentOS. Team up with the Network team to analyze the project and build the infrastructure to the project specifications. Knowledge of various Cisco devices to create VLAN to manage the environment.  - Participate with the installation of Sun Solaris, and RedHat machines. Worked in a team that configured RedHat machines in an all out virtual environment. My main job duties were not limited to just the installing and configuring of the systems, but worked with managing Logical Volumes, Disk Partitions, File Systems, and application install after System configurations. On a day to day, troubleshooting network connections whenever issues arise, user logins, editing group policies while maintaining it on a 24/7 environment without interrupting daily production and handling on call technical support for clients. Managed NetApp File servers with Data ONTAP operating system to support NFS protocol for government clients. Skills Active directory, System management, Systems administration, Vmware, Nagios