Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Georgia Dept. of Transportation Ellenwood, GA Work Experience Systems Administrator Georgia Dept. of Transportation - Atlanta, GA January 2005 to Present 1    • Maintain the upgrading of workstations, laptops, peripheral hardware and software.  • Analyze, troubleshoot and resolve desktop and virtual computing end user issues and concerns.  • Responsible for help desk questions or inquires.  • Maintain virus protection, restore user profiles. Repair software functionality and data recovery.  • Ensure security controls and policies are maintained and adhere to.  • Update drivers and install new software releases and patches.  • Knowledge of and experience with network protocols. Enterprise networking and print sharing.  • Administer and configure systems and software remotely.  • Automate deployment of system builds using software utilities and servers.  • Image, configure and deploy new or redistributed computers and peripherals.  • Decommission older systems, printers and peripheral devices.  • Provide technical backup support for network administrators with network segments.  • Escalate unresolved tickets clearly, articulating issues to the escalation team.  • Identify, research and resolve technical problems of various complexity related to systems software network devices and hardware.  • Troubleshoot conventional and wireless AP connectivity.  • Provide necessary support to maintain network availability to users.  • Work with network specialists, applications developers, system administrators and security specialists.  • Respond to locations for on-site workstation and network support as needed.  • Serve as primary technical support for computer users in an assigned off-site offices.  • Manage multiple tasks and projects, both independently and also as part of a team Education Technical Certificate Elizabeth Seton College - New York, NY 1978 to Present Computer Information Systems DeKalb Technical Institute - Clarkston, GA 1995 to 1998 Skills Linux, Redhat, Linux Administrator, System Admin