Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Finksburg, MD Work Experience Systems Administrator VENATOR MATERIALS, PLC - Beltsville, MD 2006 to February 2019 Hands-on Technical Manager of North American helpdesk, supporting a total of one corporate office, three manufacturing facilities, two warehouses, and forty remote users.  • Assisted in 2018 with the migration to Office 365 Business Premium.  • Between 2014 and 2019, intricately involved in collection of IT assets from six facilities being closed as a result of Rockwood being acquired, and consolidation of all facilities. Assets were returned to inventory or properly disposed of. Managed closure of these facilities also required deactivation of network circuits, as-well as termination of various contracts.  • During 13 years of working with Rockwood / Huntsman, directly responsible for opening four locations.  - Coordinated with AT&T, Verizon and other network providers with installation of their circuits.  - Racking and overseeing the configuration of the Cisco routers and network switch equipment.  - Installation of the required Dell PowerEdge server or servers.  - Installation and configuration of the operating system for the appropriate needs.  - Installation and deployment of workstations and phone system.  • Assigned project of relocating Rockwood's corporate data center from Beltsville, MD to St. Louis, MO, migrated existing physical servers to a virtual environment, using VMWare and an EMC Clarion, consolidating equipment for easier relocation to the new data center.  - After relocation of the data center and virtualization, changed the Disaster Recovery Plan (DRP) from Iron Mountain to an in-house solution using 2 Data Domain appliances, replicating data between two larger facilities. This enabled recovery in hours, verses days, in the event of a catastrophic event, all at a lower monthly cost.  - Led the team that wrote the DRP and carried out testing on an annual basis.  • Over 13 years, assisted with three different domain migrations, results of acquisitions and divestitures.  • Migrated 13 company locations over to a new AT&T MPLS network.  • Replaced outdated UPS system with new APC SURT7500XLT Rackmount solution that was considerably smaller in size, yet provided longer uptime, allowing for rerouting and labelling of all cabling within the sever rack and providing cleaner, well documented installation.  • Monitored Windows servers for server stability and security. Monitoring was carried out by reviewing application event logs, hardware logs, and reviewing with our contracted NOC the performance of routers, firewall(s), network switches and overall bandwidth utilization.    • Implemented and supported Symantec End Point protection in order to provide a common dashboard for monitoring endpoints for potential security risk. Systems Administrator INTERNATIONAL PAPER - Odenton, MD 1998 to 2006 Performed an in-place upgrade from Windows 2000 to Windows 2003 laying down the foundation for Exchange 2003.  • Installed Microsoft Exchange 2003.  • Implementation of Surf Control Web Filter version 5.0.  • Implementation and support for Symantec Antivirus Corporate Edition Version 10.00.  • Collapsed six Microsoft NT 4.0 Domains into a single Windows 2000 AD Domain.  • Server consolidation of Intel Servers in order to reduce cost and provide years of reliable service.  • Created disaster/recovery plan using Symantec Ghost to create backup images for operating systems.  • Over a 7 year period with the Nevamar Company, played an active role in both the support and management of the computer helpdesk.  • Performed daily monitoring of server performance, backups and over all server stability and security.  • Performed telecommunications daily backups of Meridian Option 61C PBX and Meridian Mail system. Education High school or equivalent Skills Vmware, Exchange, Veritas backup exec, Backup exec, Veritas, System Administrator, Active Directory, System Admin Links http://linkedin.com/in/mathew-davis Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES  Helpdesk and Technician Management • Windows Server Operating Systems •  Microsoft Exchange Administration • Veritas Backup Exec /EMCs Networker  VMWare Implementation/Administration • Project Management/Documentation • Collaboration