Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Cedar Springs, MI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator KRAFT Business Systems April 2018 to May 2019 ·      Provided technical support for 80 small businesses as the contracted Managed Service provider.  ·      Managed user accounts and file permissions as well as Group Policy Objects via AD security groups.   ·      Redesigned AD structure for ease of manageability and security.   ·      Office 365 Email connected to Active Directory account synchronization via Azure.  ·      Evaluated and redesign internal networks based on the company demand and security needs. Redesign work included Server OS upgrades as well as switch, firewall, wiring and wireless hardware upgrades.  ·      Managed Ubiquiti Unifi wireless networks providing properly configured and managed roaming-capable networks.  Junior Systems Administrator Cu*Answers - Grand Rapids, MI July 2016 to April 2018 As a Junior Systems Administrator, I am part of a team responsible for managing all computer and network related services for roughly 250 credit unions across the United States. Responsibilities as part of this roll include Direct Customer support with Microsoft related software and operating systems as well as workstation peripherals, site-to-site secure VPN's, Sonicwall firewalls, Cisco routers/switches and implementation of top security protocols and other various responsibilities. IT Technician Kent Intermediate School District - Grand Rapids, MI June 2014 to July 2016 Direct personal contact for end-point device break/fix maintenance of both teachers and students in 20 public districts under the management of the Kent Intermediate School District including up-to 5,000 devices. Education Network Security, Network Management and Design Davenport University - Grand Rapids, MI 2014 to Present Certificate in Information Technology Kent Career/Technical Center - Grand Rapids, MI September 2012 to June 2014 Skills System Admin, System Administrator, Active Directory, Vmware