Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Randallstown, MD • TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP and network troubleshooting  • Building and deploying virtual machines  • Installing, configuring and upgrading the Solaris 9/10, RHEL 6 and Centos 6 OS Environment for x86 Platforms Work Experience Systems Administrator Trinitech Consulting, Inc - Beltsville, MD September 2015 to September 2018 1. Troubleshoot and resolve OS, application, malware desktop related issues on various Windows NOS.    2. Create new User profiles and accounts in Active Directory, as well as on Windows NOS, UNIX and Linux systems.    3. Windows 7, 8 and 10 NOS imaging and configurations and software deployment.  4. Responsible for assigning hostnames, static IP addresses, default gateway addresses and DNS addresses to Windows 2008 Servers so as to introduce them to the network.    5. Use the "dcpromo" tool to promote standard Windows 2008 servers to domain controllers, as well as to configure Active Directory and DNS.    6. Configure Windows NOS clients to join the domain as well as configure file and print sharing on some Windows NOS to enable resource sharing.    7. Use TCP/IP troubleshooting tools to troubleshoot and resolve network connectivity and DNS related issues in the LAN.    8. Configure TCP/IP, DHCP, and DNS.    9. Perform multiplatform Server builds on VMware, which include Windows Server 2008, UNIX Solaris 9 & 10, Linux CentOS 6.4, and RHEL (Red Hat Enterprise Linux) 6 & 7.    10. Experience in building and configuring VMware host and guess systems on Oracle Virtual Box as well as bridging the Guess VMware systems to communicate with other physical LAN systems.    11. Experience in transferring files via SFTP and WinSCP.    12. Remotely access systems in the network using RDP.    13. Remotely access systems using PuTTY. Education None in Radiation Therapy CCBC - Owings Mills, MD August 2018 to Present High School Diploma Randallstown High School - Randallstown, MD August 2011 to May 2015 Skills LDAP, SOLARIS, SFTP, ORACLE, FTP