Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Round Rock, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Cancer Prevention and Research Institute of Texas October 2014 to June 2019 Sr IT Admin, Cancer Prevention and Research Institute of Texas  • Manage Federated Active Directory on premise and Azure  • Oversee all aspects of Office 365 deployment and support.  • Administration of cloud based Sharepoint environment.  • File manipulation of shared files/folders on our network and Sharepoint.  • Stood up and managed all aspects of Exchange Server  • Lead helpdesk support using Spiceworks ticketing system.  • Imaged new systems using Acronis Imaging and upgraded agency desktops and laptops from Windows 7 to Windows 10, personally ensuring end user profile migration.  • Troubleshooting end user issues including mobile support and audio visual setups.    IT Application Analyst, Celestica Aerospace Technologies Corp  • Administered Windows server environment including management of corporate Active Directory services.  • Administered Sharepoint.  • Installed and managed WSUS server and all patch management.  • Managed Xerox Docushare web-based content management system.  • Administered McAfee EPO server.  • Setup and Administered Symantec Backup Exec for site.  • Managed and maintained Lotus Domino Severs  • Managed accounts for VPN access via Checkpoint NGXR65  • Managed Lotus Notes helpdesk ticketing system.  • Imaged new systems and upgraded existing systems from XP to windows 7. Used Both Norton Ghost and Active Boot.  Manager, Excel Electronics  • Initially worked as a solderer  • Promoted to Quality Assurance  • Promoted to 3rd Shift Assembly and Quality Assurance Manager  • Managed 15-20 employees  • Assured deliveries were met and quality was on target  • Ran Functional Testing from Upgrades to circuit testing to end circuit testing Systems Administrator Education Computer Science Austin Community College Skills Sharepoint, Active directory, Exchange, Vmware, Microsoft office 365, Xerox, Team building, File Management, Site Backup, Norton Backup Exec, Azure, Helpdesk Management, Imaging Using Acronis, Active Boot and Norton Ghost, End user support XP, Windows 2000, Windows 7 and Windows 10, System Administrator, System Admin Certifications/Licenses Security Clearance June 2012 to September 2015 Had security Clearance could still be in JPASS Assessments Technical Support — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/uuetl19ysn7sgjcg Basic Computer Skills: PC — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/7m-kimclprk1hlv8 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.