Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Springfield, MO Systems Administrator / Network Administrator / Project Manager/Desktop Support Technician with more than 27 years of experience planning, developing, implementing and supporting computer, network and server infrastructures in an enterprise environment. Work Experience Systems Administrator Embark Staffing - Springfield, MO July 2018 to June 2019 • Contracted to maintain 25 servers, phone system, networking and desktops.  • Operated in a Microsoft Hyper-V environment running Windows servers (2003 to 2012 R2)  • Managed users through Active Directory.  • Worked with Microsoft O365 to maintain users and groups.  • Worked with ATT online ring central phone system.  • Performed backup of servers using Microsoft DPM.  • Created reports through PowerShell scripts.  • Managed print and scan functions of Savin copiers.  • Involved in moving of data center.  • Troubleshoot issues and outages in 7 remote offices. Senior Systems Administrator John Q Hammons Hotels - Springfield, MO June 2010 to May 2018 • Configure, install and maintain firewalls, access points and switches  • Install and maintain Windows Servers (2003 to 2012 R2) at over 70 hotels with Active Directory, print and file management  • Maintained and managed servers in a VMware environment.  • Project manager for implementation of property management systems and operating systems, Wi-Fi and cabling design, equipment acquisition and implementation of technology centers for new hotel builds  • Monitor performance and maintain systems according to requirements  • Install and configure hardware and software  • Perform system upgrades for new releases    (Windows XP, Windows 7, Windows 10, Server 2003, Server 2008, Server 2012R2, NimbleStorage, Cisco Meraki switches and firewalls, HP switches, Cisco switches, Fortinet Firewalls, VMware 6.0) Implementation Project Manager John Q Hammons Hotels - Springfield, MO April 2003 to May 2010 Designed, planned and executed the installation and maintenance of computer network systems for 20 hotels Help Desk Technician John Q Hammons Hotels - Springfield, MO April 2001 to June 2003 Data Processing / Network Administrator/ Desktop Support Bank of America June 1980 to September 2000 • Processed banking transactions for 70 banks in the data processing environment.  • Provided support for banking systems for 20 branch offices.  • Installed and configures computer hardware, networking and server equipment    Springfield, MO Education Computer Science Missouri State University - Springfield, MO Skills Active Directory, System Admin, Vmware, System Administrator, SCCM Additional Information Skills    • Change management  • Operations management  • Client services  • Proficiency in networking and server infrastructures  • Level 3 support for helpdesk  • Installation of systems in banking and hospitality environment