Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Netgain Saint Cloud, MN Cloud systems administrator, aspiring DevOps practitioner. Automating security risk prevention today for a safer tomorrow. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Netgain - Saint Cloud, MN September 2016 to Present Responsible for enterprise level IT support to custom client environments.. This includes supporting and maintaining hosted cloud and on-premise devices.  ? Lead patch management administrator of OS/Vendor application solutions in both healthcare and financial verticals. Utilizing task automation tools ensuring over 20,000 endpoints are  preventatively equipped and stable.  ? Primary technician responsible for security vulnerability resolution.  ? Enterprise level local and hosted windows systems administration across various environments.  ? Configuration and management of virtual machines using VMWare vSphere and Microsoft  Hyper-V to cater towards unique client requirements.  ? Launched global network monitoring system against client environments to create a proactive  approach to critical network incidents through system alerts.  ? Maintain and develop infrastructure, service, and third-party application alerting thresholds to accommodate client specific needs.  ? Configure DNS and web filtering for managed devices.  ? Database administrative tasks to ensure communication and backups of SQL instances.  ? Create internal documentation following Microsoft and ITIL standards.  ? Escalation point for high touch clients and mass impact service outages.  ? Technical Lead of four individuals for scope of work definitions, and customer service obligations. Education Computer Science St. Cloud State University 2011 to 2015 High school or equivalent in St. Cloud Technical High School St - Saint Cloud, MN 2005 to 2009 Skills SQL SERVER, MYSQL, SQL, HYPER-V, WEB SERVICES, System Administrator, Active Directory, System Admin, Linux, Vmware, AWS, Powershell, Microsoft azure Additional Information Also looking to break into the cybersecurity vertical.