Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - AECOM/Federal Trade Commission White Plains, MD Work Experience Systems Administrator AECOM/Federal Trade Commission November 2012 to Present • Account management performed daily to include creation, modification and deletion, reset and unlock, and account validation.  • Manage Exchange 2016, creating user accounts, distribution lists. Set storage quotas on email accounts, set permissions on accounts.  • Investigate and troubleshoot complex server incidents.  • Perform Active Directory administration to include group and distribution management, user, computer and object OU management and addition/removal of domain devices, group policy.  • Manage Microsoft patching process, scanning servers, including rebooting, application and functionality testing using Shavlik 9.2.  • Manage permissions on file and group network storage shares using Netapp System Manager  • Manage network printers. Creating print queues, install print drivers.  • Manage Symantec Endpoint Protection  • Manage Virtual Servers with VmWare 6.5 to include, creation and modification  • Open, track and update ticket status and resolutions with Service Now  • Responsible for license validation of software applications.  • Install new software releases and system upgrades. Systems Administrator Serco Inc./Department of Justice January 2008 to November 2012 • Account management performed daily to include creation, modification and deletion, reset and unlock, and account validation  • Perform Active Directory administration to include group and distribution management, user, computer and object OU management and addition/removal of domain devices  • SCCM 2007 package installation and verification tasks are performed routinely  • Assist with Windows 2003 and 2008 Microsoft patching process, including rebooting, application and functionality testing.  • Troubleshoot, install and configure network hardware devices including Dell, HP, Xerox and Ricoh network printers, scanners  • Responsible for isolating and resolving network connectivity issues and implementing solutions  • Manage permissions on file and group network storage shares  • Image and deploy Windows XP images with Norton Ghost 8.3 for Dell and HP workstations and desktops  • Open, track and update ticket status and resolutions with Remedy 7.1  • Resolve connectivity issues with BES handheld devices and provide activation and remote support for blackberry users  • Deploy, configure and troubleshoot litigation network equipment at remote locations for DOJ court trials Systems Administrator Arete Enterprise /Dept of Transportation March 2005 to December 2008 • Provided hardware, software and network technical support for DOT users.  • Provided account creation, resetting and unlocking of user accounts using Active Directory 2003.  • Installed Office Suite 2003, Symantec/Etrust Antivirus onto desktops and laptops.  • Confirmed warranties with desktops and laptops were up to date.  • Serviced local and network printers (Dell, HP, Xerox)  • Used Norton Ghost 8.0 to image Windows 2000/Windows XP onto desktops and laptops.  • Used Remedy 6.0 for entering, updating and resolving tickets. Systems Administrator/Data Center Technician NTT/Verio February 2000 to December 2002 • Provided system administration support in a high volume 24x7 data center  • Supervised and assisted 5 member technical support team involving hardware, networking and software issues    SECURITY CLEARANCE  Active National Agency Check with Inquires (NACI) Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and Technology in EDUCATION Bowie State University 1999