Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - 3Essentials Inc/Sector 7 LLC Los Angeles, CA IT Professional with over 20 years experience. Demonstrated solutions development and implementation. I look forward to new challenges in the areas of Systems Administration or Project Management. Work Experience Systems Administrator 3Essentials Inc/Sector 7 LLC September 2010 to Present 3E provides web hosting and virtual server services. This is a mixed environment with Linux and Windows servers.  - Managed the support team, mentoring and guiding them to continually offer the best service to our customers.  - Cut costs and administrative time by virtualizing servers resulting in the consolidation of resources. This allowed us to more easily provide backup and recovery of systems. It also allowed for more centralized management of systems, reduced hardware footprint and power and cooling requirements.  - Developed numerous technical procedures and policy procedures for staff, making for quicker response and resolutions to issues and customer requests. Wrote documentation for customers resulting in fewer tickets and calls to our support teams.  - Wrote numerous scripts, saving time in the administration of systems. Examples include scripts for backing up SQL and MySQL databases, zipping those backups and maintaining retention. Others include monitoring outgoing mail queues so we can be alerted of spam outbreaks, administrative tasks.  - Split SQL with 800+ databases off a web server which resulted in more storage and greater performance for both servers. The project required building the server, backing up databases, including SQL logins, and restoring to the new server. I then verified communication from the web server, redirecting it to use the new server and cleaning up the old SQL databases and installation.  - Migrated hundreds of virtual servers from Hyper-V 2008 to 2012R2 and VMM. I kept our virtualization platform moving forward and provided for centralized management which had previously been unavailable.  - Upgraded backup platform from BackupExec to R1Soft. Determined h/w specifications, storage capacity, and steps needed to move from older platform to a new platform. Created docs detailing how to configure and schedule new jobs. Infrastructure Specialist Electronic Data Systems (EDS) July 1997 to December 2008 I spent many years with EDS in various roles. I was often sought out for promotion to new teams and organizations. Started on a team administering 8000+ Windows servers in 85 domains. Performed remote administration using MS SMS, ArcServe, and resource kit utilities. Quickly rose to become a Technical Lead for the team responsible for administration of these systems.  - Extensive use of MS admin tools including, Terminal Services, Netmeeting, and VNC. Administration of user accounts, groups, and shared resources. Managed web hosting services. Developed and implemented numerous shell scripts for use in remote administration.  - In 1999 I then moved to a local LAN team where I was responsible for administration of infrastructure, application, and web servers in a large scale enterprise. I was project supervisor of numerous development projects that included platform changes and upgrades.  - Consolidated approximately 24 web sites spread across multiple servers to a single production server and dev/test server. Provided specifications for hardware, configuring the operating system and IIS. Implemented a production/test environment that facilitated modification and testing prior to putting new/modified applications in production.  - Took ownership of the development of OS and hardware platform configurations for a range of IT services including database, web, file, print, backup, and application servers. Coordinated with application developers in system design, implementation, and testing.  - Streamlined maintenance and administration by writing technical documentation detailing the building of systems, maintenance, and administrative processes..  - Mitigated manual processes through the design, development, and implementation of shell scripts to automate tasks.  - From 2003 through 2008 I joined our web hosting organization as an Infrastructure Specialist. I was the primary technical contact for our customers. Responsibilities included architecture design, implementation, and ongoing support of customers and their environments. Architectures included AD, web, file, FTP, Oracle clusters, SQL DB clusters, and custom application servers. Platforms include Solaris, RedHat, Windows, SQL, and Oracle. Infrastructure included backup/restore, monitoring, log rotation and log analysis with tools such as Urchin, Netcool, and ArcServe.  - I determined monitoring needs, developed scripts to meet customer requirements and requests, determined backup needs, and storage requirements. Education High school or equivalent Skills Mysql, Sql, Iis, Virtualization, Apache, Linux, Shell scripting, Hyper-v, Lamp, Systems administration, Scripting, Quality control, System Admin, Active Directory, System Administrator, Red Hat Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/michael-carella-85ba803 Additional Information Skills: Proven ability in Systems Administration, Technical Writing, Quality Control, Project Management. Able to work with and coordinate multiple vendors. Proficiency with Windows and Linux operating systems including CentOS, Redhat, Windows. Virtualization expertise with Hyper-V, KVM, Virtualizor, Proxmox. In depth knowledge of platform solutions: LAMP, IIS, Apache, MS SQL, MySQL. Experienced with IPTables, Firewalld, Microsoft Systems Center, Windows shell scripting, Powershell, Linux shell scripting, BackupExec, Microsoft DPM, Idera R1soft. Experienced with Dell, Supermicro, and Hewlett-Packard hardware platforms.