Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Virginia Beach, VA Team-oriented self-starter with experience performing enterprise level operation system and software deployment. Skilled in troubleshooting client issues in enterprise environments while upholding a high standard of customer service. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Perspecta - Norfolk, VA August 2017 to Present Windows as a Service team member supporting the in-place-upgrade of operating systems on the United States Navy's network following the Windows Semi-Annual Channel model. Also responsible for troubleshooting any related client issues following a major update.  • Analyzed logs to troubleshoot upgrade issues and worked with Engineers and Architects to implement solutions.  • Used knowledge learned in troubleshooting to develop detailed articles for the Service Desk to troubleshoot known issues.  • Created PowerShell scripts to quickly identify seat upgrade issues.  • Created and implemented an AD based enterprise level rollout plan to reduce network impact while delivering a large amount of data to client seats.  • Contributed to program level meetings to provide feedback and support. Inventory Coordinator Colonial Shooting Academy - Virginia Beach, VA April 2014 to July 2017 Virginia  Responsible for the accurate, timely and continuous tracking of firearms, ammunition and merchandise from receipt to sale while complying with all Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (BATFE) guidelines. Supported 20 workstations with basic administration tasks.  • Performed Microsoft Outlook setup for employees.  • Performed initial configuration, active directory administration and routine optimization of workstations. Education Associate in Mathematics Northern Virginia Community College - Annandale, VA Skills Active Directory, System Administrator, System Admin, Cloud Computing, Automation Awards Eagle Scout 2009-04 BSA Eagle Scout Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ CompTIA A+ AWS Cloud Practitioner Tanium Operations and Security Essentials