System Administrator <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator - ITR Economics Columbus, OH Versatile, self-motivated system administrator over five years' experience dedicated to  maximizing performance and ensuring a highly-available and secure environment. Recognized for  expert troubleshooting, and superb management of IT programs. Attentive to detail, able to take  initiative, prioritize multiple tasks and manage workload. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Administrator Institute for Trend Research - Manchester, NH July 2017 to Present Manages day-to-day operations of the company’s networks, computers, peripherals, on site servers, and other IT equipment.  Duties  ·      Provides Tier I and II technical support to users  ·      Develops training material and trains users to work with new hardware or software  ·      Engineers creative solutions for various projects and operational needs  ·      Installs new/maintains existing servers and configures hardware, peripherals, services, settings, directories, storage, etc. in accordance with standards and project/operational requirements  ·      Researches and implements innovative and, where possible, automated approaches for system administration tasks and identifies approaches that leverage available resources and provide economies of scale  ·      Performs daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware, server resources, systems, and key processes, reviewing system and application logs, and verifying completion of scheduled jobs  ·      Maintains physical and cyber security of all IT assets  ·      Performs ongoing performance tuning, hardware upgrades, and resource optimization as required  ·      Researches and purchases all IT related equipment and software  ·      Maintains complete and accurate inventory of all IT assets  ·      Maintains and troubleshoot VoIP phone system  ·      Manages user/machine settings and configurations via Active Directory and Group Policy  ·      Creates and administers corporate cyber security training plan.    Accomplishments  ·      Built and maintained a corporate wiki (using MediaWiki) that included over 45 entries with troubleshooting steps to common IT related issues directly resulting in a sharp increase in overall employee productivity while also freeing up time for the IT team to focus on other issues.  ·      Installed and configured Nagios Core, a network monitoring system, to monitor company network devices and servers allowing the IT team to discover and respond to errors and outages more quickly, often before they affected end users.  ·      Planned and configured company Active Directory and Group Policy settings, accounting for the unique needs of seven different departments and employing cyber security best-practices and resulting in easier, more efficient management of user settings. Deployment of settings was completed within one day, resulted in no end-user down time, and created no major issues.  ·      Built corporate intranet (using WordPress) to aide in employee involvement, communication, collaboration, and training and address the company’s need for readily available documentation of policies and procedures, quick dissemination of information, easy access to commonly used forms and templates, and more.  ·      Established written processes and procedures for over 50 IT related tasks resulting in more knowledgeable IT staff and allowing for smooth flow of IT operations in my absence.  ·      Implemented and managed IT helpdesk software (Zoho Desk) and procedures to aid the IT department in organizing, responding to, and resolving trouble tickets, resulting in better efficiency and stronger communication throughout the IT department, thus leading to increased satisfaction of our customers.  ·      Established and maintained corporate cyber security program, to include selecting and assigning end user training, establishing and documenting corporate cyber security administrative policies, and documenting all cyber security measures currently in place and plans for future implementation.  ·      Saved the company over $10,000/year by auditing all active software subscriptions, removing under-utilized subscriptions, and finding lower cost alternatives for the more expensive subscriptions. Information Systems Technician Tactical Training Group Atlantic, USN - Virginia Beach, VA April 2014 to August 2017 Duties  • Helpdesk Technician - Provided customer support to both staff and visitors for all IT related trouble calls.  • Information Assurance Inspector - Examined all aspects of personnel vulnerabilities in regard to information assurance throughout all departments to ensure guidelines were being adhered to.  • System Administrator - Managed 200 user accounts. Configured 200 computers via Group Policy to ensure compliance with Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA).  • Switch Administrator - Managed 5 network switches.  • Network Technician - Attended to over 500 trouble calls involving network/infrastructure issues.  • Local Registration Authority (LRA) Program Manager - Under authority of the National Security Agency (NSA), managed all facets of Tactical Training Group, Atlantic's on- site LRA program, to include issuing and revoking sensitive user tokens, providing training on token handling, records keeping, and system compliance.  • Local Element - In charge of classified cryptographic equipment and local program management, to include accounting for classified equipment, qualifying 6 users to handle classified equipment, providing monthly training to users, records keeping, and program compliance.  • Purchasing Specialist - Entrusted as one of two credit card holders for the organization. Purchased over $50,000 worth of supplies in support of command mission.  • Video Teleconference Coordinator - Coordinated and set up over 50 video teleconferences providing quality communications over long distances and classified lines.  • Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office (DRMO) Program Manager – In charge of the sanitization and recycling of IT equipment, both classified and unclassified.  • Misc. - Created 12 technical documents to aid in various work-related tasks. Administrated Tactical Training Group, Atlantic's Official Information Exchange (OIX) account (fleet-wide communication system). Served as a member of the command assessment team, which worked to improve the overall climate of the organization. Served as a Sexual Assault Victim Advocate, aiding in care of victims of sexual assault and providing sexual assault prevention training to all staff.  Accomplishments  ·      As LRA Program Manager, managed and maintained LRA systems, documentation, policies, and procedures to the highest degree ever recorded (at the time) by NSA Program Auditors.  ·      As DRMO Program Manager, oversaw the proper sanitization and disposal of over 1,000 pieces of both classified and unclassified IT equipment. Information Systems Technician USS Carl VInson (CVN 70), USN - San Diego, CA August 2012 to April 2014 Duties  • Cyber Security Analyst - Monitored the network for suspicious activity using McAfee Host Based Security System (HBSS) as well as DHCP logs and responded to and corrected all violations. Conducted vulnerability scans on all shipboard networks using Retina Network Security Scanner and corrected any detected vulnerabilities. Maintained Windows Server Update Services (WSUS) to ensure every machine on the network received necessary updates in a timely manner. Maintained Symantec Antivirus software on all networks.  • System Administrator - Managed over 4,000 user accounts. Ensured maximum up-time of all network servers and services. Maintained 9 network servers including updates and back-ups.  • Switch Administrator - Maintained 12 switches to ensure maximum network up-time and security.  • Helpdesk Technician - Provided customer support to all shipboard personnel.  • Network Technician - Responded to over 200 trouble calls involving network/infrastructure issues.  • Inventory Control - Conducted inventory on over 1,200 pieces of IT equipment, including classified equipment, resulting in 99% accountability.  ·      Divisional Safety Coordinator - Managed divisional safety program ensuring the workspace and all areas owned by the division were free and clear of any safety threats and violations  ·      Misc. - Created 5 technical documents to aid in various work-related tasks. Created training plan to aid 15 personnel in obtaining A+ and Security+ certifications. Education Bachelor's in Networking and Telecommunications Southern New Hampshire University - Manchester, NH May 2014 to May 2017 Skills Windows Server 2016 (2 years), Kaseya (2 years), Hyper-V (2 years), Active Directory (7 years), Group Policy (7 years), WordPress (1 year), System Administrator, System Admin Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ December 2011 to July 2024 CompTIA Security+ July 2012 to July 2024