IT Systems Administrator IT <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Systems Administrator Union Bridge, MD Work Experience IT Systems Administrator Thales Defense and Security Inc - Clarksburg, MD November 2014 to August 2019 • Storage Area Network: Responsible for all aspects of NetApp including 11 NetApp filers hosting 6 SVM's spanning 4 branch offices. Provisioning space to clients by creating Volumes, iSCSI LUNs, CIFS and NFS shares. Proficient in both NetApp 7-Mode and CDOT 8+. Was lead on NetApp Projects.  • VMware vSphere: Responsible for all aspects of VMware products including 28 ESXi hosts running 400+ VM's spanning 4 branch offices. Deployment and configuration of servers to clients, maintaining images and providing system resources when needed. Was lead on VMware related Projects.  • Citrix VDI: Responsible for all aspects of Citrix including maintaining images and provisioning them to thin-clients on the manufacturing floor. Was lead on Citrix related Projects.  • Microsoft Exchange 2013: Responsible for all aspects of Exchange including a 4 node DAG. Managing and maintaining all user mailboxes. Was lead on Exchange related Projects.  • Active Directory: Responsible for all aspects of AD including 7 Domain controllers spanning 4 branch offices. Creating, deleting and modifying all AD objects. Creating and testing Group Policies. Troubleshooting DNS and DHCP. Was lead on AD related Projects.  • Email Archive: Responsible for all aspects of Symantec Enterprise Vault to meet contractual email archiving standards. Was lead on Enterprise Vault related Projects.  • Backups: Responsible for all aspects of Commvault software. Utilized Commvault to backup to tape for Disaster Recovery purposes.  • IT Infrastructure: Responsible for full-rack APC power redundancy and managed PDU's. Monitored Generators and scheduled maintenance. Was the POC for fire suppressions systems in datacenters.  • Network Monitoring: Responsible for all aspects of OpManager SNMP software. Maintaining the software so alerts continue to generate for servers that need attention.  • Extron Room Panels: Responsible for maintaining conference room digital calendar panels using room agent software so users can book and view meetings from the conference room. IT Consultant/Contractor InfoPathways LLC Westminster MD - Westminster, MD June 2010 to September 2014 • Server Administrator: Created and managed user profiles in Windows Server 2003-2012 (Virtual and physical using VMware and HyperV) using active directory services and cloud based services like, Google Business, Microsoft 365 and Dropbox Teams. Checked backups and updates daily and responded to server alerts.    • Remote and On-site Helpdesk: Answered calls and provided remote support on Windows 95-8.1 and MAC computers. Occasionally went on site to assist the user. Was responsible for solving any computer related issue.  • Network Engineering: Designed physical and logical network topologies, identified bottlenecks, security flaws, and improvements. Configured and installed various CISCO routers, switches, wireless access points, and cameras. Ran networking cable throughout an infrastructure using light construction equipment to create a network backbone.  • Sales: Sold Dell, CISCO, Seagate, Google, Microsoft, Dropbox and Comcast products as well as produced quotes to review with clients.  • Forensics: Responsible for the recovery and secure destruction of data. Offered evidence of cyber-attacks against a client to be used in legal court.  Education AAS in Computer Information Systems Carroll Community College - Westminster, MD December 2013 Skills System Administrator (9 years), Active Directory (9 years), Vmware (9 years), System Admin (9 years), NetApp (5 years), Commvault (5 years), Microsoft Exchange (9 years), Symantec Enterprise Vault (5 years), Computer Sales (4 years), IT Infrastructure (9 years), OpManager SNMP (5 years), Desktop Support (9 years), Windows Server (9 years), Citrix (5 years) Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Systems Administrator (MCSA) July 2016 to Present CISCO ICND 1 & ICND 2 September 2014 to Present Additional Information Formal Training Provided by Global Knowledge:    • NetApp Storage Solutions  • Microsoft Exchange 2013  • VMware vSphere  • Citrix VDI    References:    • Ben LaScola - Cyber Security Engineer (240)-674-8758  • Ryan bittner - Cyber Security Manager (240)-672-8691  • Mansoor Khan - Application Development Manager (240)-731-0515