Junior Developer Junior Developer New York, NY Skilled IT Professional with over 7 years of experience in a variety of IT arenas, including developing and programming. Extensive experience in maximizing network performance through ongoing monitoring and troubleshooting, investigating faults in the network, and project management. Continually exceeds expectations by building strong relationships and works well with people at all levels of the organization, including stakeholders, customers, vendors, and teammates. Work Experience Junior Developer Gettry, Marcus, Stern, & Lehrer, CPA, P.C - New York, NY February 2018 to Present • Joining the company initially as an IT Associate, overseeing and maintaining all IT equipment and related software for 100 end users in the NYC office, collaborating with IT vendors and service providers to resolve major technical issues.  • Receiving a promotion to the Junior Developer role in September 2018, working within an agile team to develop, test, and maintain web and desktop-based business applications, including collecting user requirements and producing estimates.  • Developing a windows application using C# that automated the process of creating engagement letters for clients, resulting in a streamlined process that has decreased production time by 70%, while adhering to high-quality development principles to deliver solutions on-time and on-budget. Technical Support Specialist Bank Street School of Education - New York, NY October 2014 to February 2018 • Provided subject-matter expertise on all Apple Mac OS issues and questions to ensure optimal customer service, as well as managed the IT Internship program, including orienting new Interns and delegating various responsibilities.  • Evaluated system expansions or enhancements by studying capacity and testing compatibility with existing programs, while also overseeing the transition to IP phones by collaborating with vendors to prioritize set-up and complete cabling tasks.  • Supported 700 end users, fielding and prioritizing incoming help requests via telephone or work orders, building rapport and eliciting problem details from the help desk customers in order to troubleshoot software, hardware, or networking issues. Android Application Teacher September 2017 to December 2017 Systems Administrator Intern International Securities Exchange Holdings - New York, NY March 2015 to June 2016 • Performed functions related to the day-to-day operations of the infrastructure supporting the business, including data center operations, hardware, operating systems, user administration, virtualization, and backups and recovery of the environment.  • Contributed to a system transition from desktops to Thin Clients for all staff, facilitating remote access, while executing a plan for data consolidation, including system builds, tear downs, and migration.  • Managed user accounts and mailboxes in Active Directory and Microsoft Exchange Server, including login script creation, distribution group management, and user profile testing to ensure appropriate staff access level.  Teaching Experience Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science & Information Systems Pace University, Seidenberg School of Computer Science & Information Systems - New York, NY December 2020 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CITRIX, C#, MICROSOFT ACCESS, SQL SERVER, SQL, MS OFFICE, MAC, MAC OS, MENTORING, TRAINING, DOCUMENTATION, SPICE WORKS Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/will-norales Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching