Sr Linux Administrator Sr Linux <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr Linux Administrator - TIAA-CREF Charlotte, NC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Linux Administrator TIAA-CREF - Charlotte, NC June 2014 to Present As a member of the UNIX team actively worked on Redhat Linux, HPUX and Solaris servers in handling the day-to-day requests in massive quantity. I was involved in system capacity planning and troubleshooting issues related to newbuilds, performance and troubleshooting. Also was part of the updating/applying patches to the server using Redhat Satellite Server.    Responsibilities:  • Installation of Redhat Linux on x86 HW like HP and Dell & Solaris 9, 10 operating systems on SPARC platforms.  • Performed volume management tasks like mirroring using SVM, Veritas Volume Manager 4.x/5.x and HPUX LVM.  • Supported Orcale DB and Oracle RAC on Redhat environments.  • Worked with VERITAS Foundation Suite 5 and performed tasks like creating disk groups, volumes, initializing disks, replacing failed disks etc.  • Experience working with EMC Powerpath and Redhat and Solaris Native multipathing.  • Experience working with servers connected to on SAN and NAS environments like EMC and NetApp.  • Installed and configured VERITAS Net Backup and TSM on Red Hat Enterprise Linux.  • Configured kick-start server and updating/applying patches to the servers using Red hat Satellite server.  • Deployed Redhat Satellite Server with custom repositories to provide a stable management solution for Linux environment.  • Experience installing Puppet agents and pushing Manifests/Modules to 500+ Puppet clients.  • Configured Kick-start servers to install Red Hat Linux and VMWare ESX on multiple machines.  • Manage file systems using Software RAID and recover an array, Manage file systems using Logical Volume Management, Resize file systems and protect them with LVM Snapshots.  • Disk mirroring and RAID implementation using VERITAS Volume Manager and Linux Volume Manager.  • Upgrading of VMware ESX 3.0.0 to ESX 3.5.  • Creating virtual machines using Xen, KVM hypervisor on xen servers, installing Red-hat, Cent OS using kick-start and Cobbler  • Assisted in resolving hardware issues and network connectivity issues related to TCP/IP.  • Installed and configured DHCP, DNS, and NFS.  • Implemented SUDO, SSH and other security tools and implemented SOX (Sarbanes Oxley) security compliance.  • Monitoring the hosts and networks using NAGIOS, Iostat, VMstat, MPstat and Other Tools.  • Deployed Puppet, PuppetDashboard and PuppetDB for configuration management to existing infrastructure.  • Troubleshooting on Sun Java System Web Server 6.0 and Apache.  • 1.3.x web server on Solaris with experience in installing SSL certificates.  • Performance monitoring on Solaris & Linux servers using iostat, netstat, vmstat, SAR, top & prstat.  • Configured NFS and Open LDAP services in Red Hat Linux and Solaris systems.  • User, Group management for all the UNIX servers.  • Monitoring CPU, memory, iSCSI disks, disk controllers, physical disk, HW and SW RAID, multipath, file systems, network using the tools NAGIOS and BMC Tools.  • Planned for, tested, and then managed the upgrade of our puppet infrastructure from 0.25.4 to 2.6.6.  • Utilization and Implementation of VMware at the full implementation range using the complex features of VMware connectivity with SAN, HA and DRS configuration.  • Modifying/ Writing scripts in Bash and Korn shell for optimizing day to day administration. Sr Linux Administrator Atos - Dallas, TX March 2013 to June 2014 As a member of Enterprise UNIX Team also member of Global build team supporting and maintaining Global POD Datacenter located in Texas as well two other Datacenters in London and Mexico. Worked onRedhat Linux 4/5/6 and Solaris running on x86 servers.    Responsibilities:  • Installed and configured of hardware and Linux like SUSE and RHEL 5/6 on x86 servers.  • Build servers, configured, installed tools, installed patches and transitioned servers to production support.  • Experience in support Amazon AWS EC2 instances running Ubuntu and Redhat Linux.  • Experience supporting Redhat Cluster and Oracle RAC environment running Oracle databases in High Availability.  • Involved in automation of Linux using kickstart on Physical and VMWare ESX VM's.  • Experience creating and managing HP Proliant DL G4, G5, G6 & G7, and C7000 Blade Centers.  • Manage file systems using Software RAID and recover an array, Manage file systems using Logical Volume Management, Resize file systems and protect them with LVM Snapshots.  • Experience in automation using scripts in Perl and also shell (bash and korn).  • Involved in managing Virtual Redhat Linux servers running on VMWare ESX 4/5.  • Experience performing SAN provisioning to Linux and ESX servers from EMC SAN arrays VNX and Clariions.  • Installed Puppet client software on RHEL 6.x servers and established a communication between master and client through SSL certification.  • Performing configuration management tasks on 500+ clients with the aid of Puppet Master Server and involved in writing Puppet manifests for customized configuration management.  • Configure dynamic and static network settings for IPv4 and filter packets, Review file system management concepts, removable media and configure NFS shares with AutoFS.  • Experience in SAN migrations at Host level on RHEL, HPUX and Solaris servers using Open Migrator, Open replicator and RHEL LVM and Veritas commands.  • Experience supporting single sign on authentication using LDAP on Linux environment.  • Configured Kick-start servers to install Red Hat Linux and VMWare ESX on multiple machines.  • Experience configuring LDAP clients and performing activities like user administration using LDAP.  • Involved in virtualization with VMWare ESX vSphere 4.1 and created VM's and performed P2V and P2P migrations and involved with Solaris 10 Virtualization using LDoms and Zones.  • Supporting applications like JBoss and Weblogic along with Front-end webservers like Tomcat, Apache.  • Installed patches to latest patch level, applied patch cluster and installed software packages as needed.  • Experience working with Java applications like Weblogic, Websphere and JBoss and performing JVM installations and upgrades in web logic environment.  • Involved in support and upgrade of Puppet master server from 2.x to 3.x version on servers and clients.  • Monitoring the hosts and networks using Iostat, VMstat, MPstat and Other Tools.  • Creating user accounts, user administration, local and global groups on ESX and Red Hat Linux platform.  • Disk mirroring and RAID implementation using VERITAS Volume Manager and Linux Volume Manager.  • Experience working with configuration management tools like puppet.  • Installed VERITAS Volume Manager and Powerpath on Red hat Linux servers.  • Security implementation through ACL, RBAC and TCP Wrappers.  • Installing, configuring, and administering DNS, NFS, NIS, Mail servers, FTP servers RPM servers on Red Hat Linux platforms.  • Resolving regular tickets on Hawk, Syswatch and ping probe Monitoring tools using sitescope.  • Controlling the System Logging services, and examining system Log Files of all system events. Sr Linux Administrator Cisco - Raleigh, NC November 2011 to February 2013 Responsibilities:  • Worked in Mission Critical Production environment that deals with OS level issues through the Enterprise.  • Experience managing user administration with Open LDAP and proficient using command ldapsearch, ldapadd and ldapdelete.  • Regular Admin Tasks include building Linux servers for Production, Development and Test Environments and supported the ones under production.  • Involved in building Linux VM's using VM templates and kickstart servers to build multiple servers over the network.  • Experience in managing EMC arrays and provisioned SAN disks to Linux and Solaris arrays.  • Performed OS upgrades for critical servers under production.  • Experience in creating file systems on LVM, VxVM on Redhat Linux and HPUX.  • Performed various file system changes to accommodate upgrades in applications, services and databases.  • Experience configuring Open LDAP and setting up clients for Open LDAP.  • Involved in decommission of the servers which reached end of life and performed SAN migrations using LVM and EMC tools.  • Maintained OS/APP backups for Linux and Solaris servers  • Managed critical bundles and patches on the production servers after successfully navigating through the testing phase in the test environments.  • Implemented scripting new by writing shell scripts and perl scripts and scheduled those by using cron.  • Worked on the virtual environments through the virtual ware clients like VMIC/ VSphere.  • Responsible for evaluating Storage Foundation Cluster File System for possible production use.  • Monitoring the hosts and networks using NAGIOS, Iostat, VMstat, MPstat and Other Tools  • Manage software on system using YUM, and RPM.  • Worked on the Java based applications and supported JVM's and worked on issues related to Java and patching regularly with weblogic and Jboss applications.  • Worked with HP Integrated Lights Out (ILO) software in effectively managing the server under cluster environment.  • Implementing file sharing on the network by configuring NFS/SAMBA on the system to share essential resources.  • Good knowledge in structuring the documentation for Architectural Design and Build Plan Documents.  • Managed Disks and File systems using LVM on Linux.  • Performed day-to-dayhealth checks and maintained the servers by taking the down time from the users.  • Performed configuration and troubleshooting of services like NFS, NIS, DHCP, FTP, LDAP, Web servers (Apache), Samba servers  • Installation of Cent OS 4.x manually and upgrading through YUM installation.  • Provided afterhours and weekend support to facilitate the issues in the production environment. Systems Administrator Intuit - Mumbai, Maharashtra January 2011 to October 2011 Responsibilities:  • Worked in a huge enterprise environment with 250+ Solaris servers.  • Experienced in the installation, support, configuration and maintenance of Sun Servers/workstations.  • Installing, upgrading and configuring Solaris 9, 10, AIX 5/6, Red hat Enterprise Linux 4, 5.1  • Worked with MySQL database installations and configurations.  • Experience supporting EMC Arrays like VNX, Clarrions and VMAX arrays.  • Created documentation for technical details on hardware and networking.  • Worked in 24/7 support environment for network and systems support.  • Experience in scripting. Implemented shell and perl scripts for log rotation and monitoring.  • Utilization and Implementation of VMware at the full implementation range using the complex features of VMware connectivity with SAN, HA and DRS configuration. Worked on V-motion in VMware.  • Installing and Configuring nodes on a VERITAS Cluster in a SAN environment, adding VCS agents for Oracle, Sybase, troubleshooting fail over issues, resource management  • Worked in deploying Linux and Windows virtual machines in VMware. The implementation involves SAN connectivity with VMware.  • Performed multiple Linux kick start installation both on VMware and physical servers  • Configured and distributed virtual machines on different hosts and configured v-motion. Performed template installations.  • Performing p2v migrations in Windows and Linux OS. Systems Administrator Infosys - Bangalore, Karnataka June 2007 to December 2010 Responsibilities:  • Installing, upgrading and configuring SUN Solaris 8, 9 and 10 on Sun Servers using Jump-start.  • Plan and implement assigned projects, change management, on-call support, and hotline bridge participation.  • Installation and monitoring of Zone File System, Veritas Volume Manager, Veritas Net Backup.  • Troubleshooted various problems when working with VxVM in initializing, replacing, mirroring, and removing disk devices.  • Experience in providing day-to-day user administration like adding/deleting users and managing user's queries and maintained Server using Cfengine.  • Worked with and assisted customers with setting proper Priority/Severity of problems, work problems to resolution, recorded/documented actions in databases as well as utilized tools and resources.  • Installation, configuration and maintenance DNS servers, Mail servers, FTP servers, NFS, NIS, RPM, Zones, LDAP and Microsoft Active Directory & Samba Web servers on Sun Solaris, Linux platforms.  • Troubleshooting and analysis of hardware and software failures for various Solaris servers (core dump and log file analysis).  • Configuring distributed file systems and administering NFS server and NFS clients and editing auto-mounting mapping as per system / user requirements.  • Network Administration - involving day-to-day routine checks, Configuration of LAN adapters, Routing, NFS, DNS and Troubleshooting.  • Implemented crontabs, shell scripts for automatic jobs.  • Restored files for end-users when necessary.  • Experienced in tasks like managing User Accounts and Groups, managing Disks and File Systems.  • Performing tasks related to technical support & management.  • Installed and configured Windows 2003 servers.  • Performing Backup and restore.  • Created user roles and groups for securing the resources using local operating system authentication.  • Analyze system performance, client to server traffic and server-to-server traffic. Education Solaris Virtual Center Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE:    Operating System Redhat Linux 4.0 5.0, Solaris 8/9/10, HPUX 11i V1 & V3, VMWare ESX 3/4/5, SUSE 9, 10, AIX 5/6/7, Windows-(XP, 2003 & 2008 server, WIN7).  Hardware  HP Proliant DL 360, 380 G3, G4, G57 G6, Sun Ultra Enterprise Servers (E3500,E4500,E450,E420R,250,M4000,M5000,T2000,T5120,T5220,T5220,T5240) Sunfire(15000/6800/4800/3800/v880/V480/V240/V210/V440/280R) Sun workstations (Ultra 5, 10, 20,80 Blade 100,150, 2000) V440/280R)    Server Monitoring Tools HP Open view, Nagios,HP Sitescope  Networking DNS, DHCP, NFS, FTP, NIS, Samba, LDAP, Open LDAP, SSH, Apache  Virtualization  VMware infrastructure client, workstation, Converter standalone, Microsoft virtual PC and Linux virtualization, VSphere, Zones & LDoms. clien    SAN EMC Clariion, EMC DMX, NetApp filer and HDS AMS Arrays.  Volume Management Redhat LVM, Solaris Volume Manager, Veritas Volume Manager, ZFS  Tools  Puppet, VERITAS Cluster Server 4.1, 5.1, VERITAS Volume Manager 4.0, VERITAS File Systems, Solstice Disk Suite, VERITAS Net- Backup 5.0, and Remedy 6.0, 7.1, JVM, Bash, Ksh, Perl.