Data Systems Administrator Data <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> MSSA Student/Server & Cloud cohort | 3+ years experience in data systems | CompTIA Sec+ 501 | EAS Jan 2020, Cheyenne, WY Cheyenne, WY Results-oriented Systems Administrator with 7 years of experience applying my personal brand of mission success, creative problem solving, and team-building skills. Natural communicator and experienced team player. Excels while balancing a high workload in a fast-paced work environment with like-minded professionals. Constantly striving to better technical proficiency and interpersonal skills. Secret Clearance.    Customer Service – Windows Server – VMWare Virtualization – Security Vulnerability Scanners  Cisco Telephony & Networking – Network Monitoring and Management Work Experience Data Systems Administrator United States Marine Corps - Camp Pendleton, CA March 2018 to Present 9th Communication Battalion                                       Served in a range of roles, including help desk manager, operations supervisor, and technical trainer.      Lead and developed an untrained team of twenty employees to maintain and operate a domain as a data and telecommunication service provider for over 5,000 customers.   Planned, developed, and executed a formal training program from the ground up for inexperienced employees to learn domain level systems administration that was adopted as the standard training program for the company.  Developed and standardized a remedy-based help desk structure and ticketing system.  Resolved and mitigated conflict within the systems administration team to succeed in day to day IT operations.  Worked on a small team that evaluated, corrected, and maintained the records and maintenance of over $1,000,000 of data, telecommunications, networking, and radio systems, resulting in a 99% pass rate during all records and maintenance inspections. Data Systems Administrator United States Marine, USMC - Camp Pendleton, CA June 2017 to March 2018 11th Marine Expeditionary Unit  Completed duties as a domain architect, help desk administrator, and server operator.     Created network infrastructure and domain services to support the use of the team’s network across the West Pacific.  Established video, voice, and network services in support of a company training exercise that simulated systems in a private network aboard a Naval vessel.  Worked on a team of help desk administrators and supported over 600 customers during company training exercises that simulated the use of the network in a foreign country.   Provided technical support and tactical communications in a high-stress, no-failure workspace.   Physically installed over twenty data and network systems across three ships.   Performed maintenance and repairs on various data and networking systems, saving over $10,000 in costly repairs and support. Cyber Network Operator United States Marine, USMC - Camp Pendleton, CA January 2016 to June 2017 9th Communication Battalion  Fulfilled duties as a domain administrator and help desk administrator.     Supported over 1,000 customers as a help desk administrator in field training operations that simulated the use of the domain in a foreign country. Assistant Manager Papa Johns - Sunrise, FL January 2015 to November 2015 Assistant Manager                                                                                                  Managed a staff of 50 employees during the day-to-day operations of a high-traffic food establishment.   Engaged in on-the-fly problem solving, personnel management, and promoted excellent customer service. Roadwork Laborer, Heavy Equipment Operator Mike's Fine Grading - Miami, FL September 2012 to December 2014 Roadwork Laborer, Heavy Equipment Operator.                                            Worked with a team of 30 laborers and equipment operators in a fast-paced work environment with a goal of building roads in a safe, timely, and efficient manner. Education Microsoft Software & Systems Academy Server & Cloud Administration May 2019 to Present High School Diploma Western High School - Davie, FL October 2018 Skills Virtualization (4 years), System Administration (4 years), Training & Development (4 years), Network Security (4 years), Customer Service (5 years), Management (5 years), Technical Support (4 years), Customer Service (6 years), Windows Server (4 years), Vmware (4 years), Security Vulnerability Scanners (4 years), Cisco Telephony & Networking (4 years), Network Management (4 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/tony-alford http://tonyalford.net Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: E-5\Sergeant Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ October 2018 to October 2021 MTA Cloud Fundamentals June 2019 to Present Exam 70-740: Installation, Storage, and Compute with Windows Server 2016 June 2019 to Present Exam 70-741: Networking with Windows Server 2016 August 2019 to Present Assessments Technical Support Skills — Highly Proficient December 2018 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/cx7dbbzw60uvgp02 Supervisory Skills: Interpersonal Skills — Highly Proficient December 2018 Measures a candidate's ability to maintain productive team working relationships by identifying conflict and settling disputes. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/s4vbxqibzs-j67ye Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/udt4y3krjyuiahhe Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.