Sr. VMware & System Administrator Sr. VMware &amp; <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. VMware & System Administrator - PSERS Pittsburgh, PA • Over 9+ Years of Professional Experience as VMware Engineer and Microsoft Windows Systems Administrator for Implementation and Support of Wintel Servers with Windows 2012 R2, 2008 R2, 2008, 2003 and NT on HP/Compaq, Dell, and IBM Rack and Blade Servers.  • Hands on Experience in Installing, Configuring & Troubleshooting VMware ESX 6.0/5.5/5.1/5.0/4.1/4.0, vSphere 6.0/5.5/5.1/5.0/4.0, vCenter or Virtual Center 6.0/5.5/5.1/5.0/4.1/4.0 servers. Configuring VM's on ESX server and installing hosts and Migrating Virtual Machines across various VMware ESXi Servers and VMware servers.  • Experienced in Virtual Server Administration, WINS, DNS, DHCP and Patch Management on Microsoft Windows Servers.  • Installed, Configured and Supported Intel based IBM x3850 / x3950 Rack Servers and HP Proliant DL360, DL380, DL580 Servers, BL460c, BL20p Blade Servers, and Dell Power Edge Servers.  • Extensively worked on vMotion, Storage vMotion.  • Experience with VMware Convertor for server migration from P2V and V2V.  • Experienced in configuring hardware and software RAID under Windows NT/2000/2003/2008 R2.  • Experience and Strong familiarity with PCI DSS (Data Security Standards) on Security Policy Management and Implementation, Vulnerability Management, Access Control Measures.  • Involved in upgrading the existing Servers with latest Service Packs, Security Patches.  • Experience in analyzing and troubleshooting Microsoft Windows Server hardware, Software applications and clustered environment issues.  • Knowledge on Windows PowerShell command line and scripting environment.  • Extensive experience in managing Data Center environment with Administering, Installing, and Troubleshooting Microsoft Servers and Workstations.  • Sound problem solving skills and resolve complex issues by gathering relevant info for troubleshooting.  • Hands on Experience in providing Production support on 24x7 for Windows Servers.  • Good attention to details with strong verbal and written communication skills.  • Created Backup policies and scheduling backup Jobs using Symantec Net Backup and Net Backup Exec, VEEAM VM backups and IBM & HP robotic tape drives.  • Knowledge on VMware ESX Server security tasks creating and applying Roles and Permission within Active Directory Users and Groups, Configuring vMotion, Resource Pool, and DRS, HA Cluster, cloning and migrating VM machines. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. VMware & System Administrator PSERS - Harrisburg, PA September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Manage, maintain and support 1200+ Windows 2003/2008/2012 servers within 20+ Active Directory forests in a heavily VMWare based virtualized and physical multi-site environment.  • Build, install, configure and maintain VMware products including ESXi hosts and clusters.  • Provide technical support to application users by handling systems related issues, provide technical support call telephonically or remotely on the tickets created in JIRA ticketing system.  • Work on tickets in JIRA ticketing system, performs resolution, maintain, upgrade existing systems and investigate, do root cause analysis and resolve matters of significance by gathering relevant information and using solutions in accordance with best practices and established standards.  • Provide advanced troubleshooting and problem resolution of the entire virtualized and physical environment company-wide.  • Proactively did large cluster administration with VMware enterprise infrastructure.  • Created virtual servers using VMware Convertor for server migration from P2V and V2V.  • Communicate with the appropriate user groups and understand their requirement to ensure that a unified direction is in place and is being followed for that particular project.  • Follow Change Management control procedure (ITIL based) to make any changes on the production servers and complete them during the maintenance window over weekends.  • Successfully completed the 2003 server upgrade to 2012 R2 project including all the File Servers, Backup Servers, Applications Servers and Web Servers.  • Attend daily morning service review (DSR) meeting among all support administrators globally to keep abreast with latest developments or any issues arising in last 24 hours that could be an Outage or showstopper and attend them on top priority.  • Perform backup and restore the virtual machines for any file or folder restoration from backup thru VEEAM or Backup Exec.  • Successfully completed Backup Exec server built project for Disk to Disk or Disk to Tape backups and create jobs for our company's geographically different locations in US.    Environment: VMware ESXi 6.0/5.5/5.1/5.0, vSphere 6.0/5.5/5.1/5.0, vCenter 6.0/5.5/5.1/5.0, Dell Blade & Rack Servers, MS Windows Server 2012 R2/2008 R2/2003, SQL Server 2005, JIRA service program, File Servers, EMC Centerra SAN, IBM and HP Robotic Tape Library, IIS & FTP Servers, Backup Exec and VEEAM backups. Sr. VMware & System Administrator VISA - Denver, CO February 2015 to August 2018 Responsibilities:    • Develop, Coordinate, and implement VMware-based solutions related to evolving Application Server requirements and production-related dependencies in data connectivity, user access and management.  • Spearheaded the deployment of Highly Available and Redundant VMware infrastructure cluster environment via vCenter Windows client and vCenter Web client.  • Deployment of Windows Virtual Guest Servers via VM templates with Domain defined GUID.  • Manage Create or Delete Server account in Active Directory and join them in Domain after creating static IP address in DHCP server and assigning them.  • Patch Windows virtual Guest Servers Monthly by creating a maintenance window in Production Environment and ensuring 100% Application and Server no-break connectivity to users.  • Build/Install Microsoft Windows Server 2012 R2 (Standard and Data Center Editions) and 2008 R2, deployment of both physical and virtual servers (VMware), Windows server administration and support in an enterprise environment.  • Responsible for ESXi host server upgrade from ESXi v5.0 to ESXi v5.1 and finally to ESXi v5.5 and document the process for future references requires highly technical skills to document the step-by-step process using Best Practices and procedures of all these upgrades.  • Created Plan and Execute Installation of Single Sign On (SSO) server for ESXi 5.5 upgrade with existing MySQL database, upgrade Inventory services for ESXi 5.5.  • Proactively monitor the Data Store usage in IBM XIV SAN Generation-2 and Hitachi Storage. Reclaim the unused disk space for production servers without any downtime.  • Administration of an Enterprise vSphere ESXi VMWare environment, Creating and Deploying thru Templates, taking and managing Snapshots, vMotion and Storage vMotion, Cold Migrations.  • Created and managed policies in Symantec NetBackUp related to Disk-to-Disk Primary Backup and Disk-to-Tape Secondary Backup for off-site storage with the 30-day retention policy.  • Installed and configured IIS on new build FTP Servers.  • Responsible for day-to-day operational maintenance, support, and upgrades for Windows servers and VMWare.  • Coordinate with Vendors like IBM, VMware, Iron Mountain for any issues related to the products and with Application Vendors for any upgrade related issues for migrating from 32-bit based systems to 64-bit systems.  • Support and Troubleshoot VoIP installations on CISCO UCS servers.    Environment: VMware ESXi 5.5/5.1/5.0, vSphere 5.5/5.1/5.0, vCenter 5.5/5.1/5.0, vRealize Operations Manager, VMware NSX, IBM Wintel Servers, Cisco UCS Servers, MS Windows Server 2012 R2/2008 R2/2003, Windows 8/7/XP, Active Directory, SQL Server 2005, Service Now, Remedy, SMTP Servers, IBM XIV, Hitachi and EMC Centerra SAN, IBM Robotic Tape Library, IIS & FTP Servers. Windows & VMware Administrator PRISM INC - Reston, VA December 2011 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Installation, Configuration, and Maintaining of Microsoft Windows 2008/2003 Servers on HP and IBM Servers.  • Worked on configuring the servers with Raid Configuration on HP Proliant DL585, DL380 Servers.  • Installation, Configuration and Administration of VMware ESX 5.0, Virtual Center 4.0 Servers and also patching, management and troubleshooting of VMware, and ESX Servers.  • Created User Accounts, Domain Accounts, and Distribution Groups with Active Directory.  • Used Remedy Tool for Incident Reports/Tickets, Change Management, and Request Management in Remedy by meeting the SLA requirements.  • Participated in Installation and configuration of vCenter Server, and vSphere licensing.  • Administered user accounts, domain accounts, administrative rights, security, and distribution groups with Active Directory.  • Experience in the Installation of desktops using VDI environment.  • PlateSpin Migration tool to migrate and failover V2V, P2V, V2P within multiple datacenters across LAN and WAN. Used PlateSpin to migrate 800 physical servers to virtual.  • Installed the applications on the servers through Marimba Channel.  • Performed P2V conversions using converter enterprise 4 and 5 and also P2V cold conversion using VMware Converter Boot CD.  • Installed and Configured WIN, TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, IIS and Terminal Services.  • Involved in the Backup and Recovery of the Database using Symantec Backup exec.  • Configured and maintained new VM's and Installed Microsoft Windows 2008/2003 Servers, managing VM's and ESX servers by using VIC, Putty and Web Access and installing the VMware Tools on the VM.  • Involved in Installing, Clustering and Administration of SQL Server 2005 on Windows Cluster.  • Created PowerShell scripts to interact with HyperV, WSUS, Windows Update, AD and Registry.  • Compiled PowerShell scripts for a virtual migration/Upgrade and for daily and monthly tasks to remove dated VM's.  • Participated in Weekly Status meetings and created weekly status reports with the current status, Incident Reports and Change Management for managing the applications.  • Actively involved in planning the disaster recovery and responsible in understanding the BCP requirements and coordinating BCP (Business Continuity Planning) activities.  • Responsible for monitoring backups and restoration using Veritas and net backup exec.  • Participated in creating the security policies in Active Directory.  • Used VM Convertor for converting Physical Servers to virtual mode.  • Involved in On Call rotation for supporting production strictly maintaining SLA's.  • Extensively worked with Active Directory Services, IIS Servers, DNS, and DHPCP.  • Supported ESX and VM storage issues and also coordinated with the Storage Admin Team.    Environment: VMware ESX 5.0/4.x, vSphere 5.0/4.x, vCenter 5.0/4.x, Wintel Servers, MS Windows Server 2008 R2/2003, Windows 7/XP, Active Directory, HP Proliant DL and Blade Servers. Systems Administrator KnightPoint Systems - Reston, VA March 2010 to November 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Installation and Configuration and Maintenance of Windows 2008/2003 on HP Proliant Servers.  • Created User Accounts and Groups in Active Directory (AD).  • Administered a Microsoft Cluster Server with SQL server 2008/2005.  • Involved in troubleshooting the issues related to Servers, Local Services, Data Centers, and Server Configuration for Microsoft Windows Systems.  • Configured HA, DRS clusters and capacity planning for new clusters and configured FT for the important VM's and also Maintained FTP Sites, Web Servers and created Virtual Directories in IIS7.  • Configured NAS, SAN, and iSCSi storages to the VMware ESX Servers and installed the iSCSi Software and Hardware Adapters to the ESX Servers.  • Cloning, deploying VM's to Template, Templates to VM's, vMotion, Storage vMotion.  • Configured the NTP server in ESX Server for the time synchronization between ESX and VM's.  • Generated report summary and performance for ESX Servers and VM's.  • Created snapshot's for the VM's and also created new folders, data centers, clusters and resource pools in the VC.  • Involved in Scheduling Tasks, Monitoring Tasks, Created alarms and Deploying load balancing, implementing Network security.  • Deploying HA & DRS Cluster, Managing resources.  • Migrated Virtual Machine configuration files and virtual disks from one Data store to another Data store.  • Involved in Customizing VM's (Memory, hard disk, NIC) and Analyzing log files, Resources utilizing monitoring.  • Problem analysis and Troubleshooting of ESX Server with service console.  • Resolved issues on servers, VLANs, routers, and switches in the data center.  • Up gradation of Active directory 2003 to 2008 and troubleshooting AD problems.  • Responsible in using BMC Remedy System for incident, change and problem management.  • Created new VMware Virtual Machines to meet the specifications provided by the Client.  • Configured vMotion for Hardware Resource Management.  • Troubleshooting the Hung VM Sessions on ESX Host and sending the files to VMware support for resolutions.  • Supported and Managed VMware ESX 3.5 and 4.0 infrastructure for production/non production environments including HA/DRS Clustering.  • Creating and managing security groups and reconciliation of the same regularly.  • Created documentation for Server Builds, Application Installations, Mapping the drives and Issues which occur during software upgrades.    Environment: VMware ESX 4.x/3.5, vSphere 4.x, Windows Server 2008/2003, Active Directory 2003, SQL Server 2008/2005, HP Proliant Servers. Education DRS in DRS and FT, vMotion, Storage vMotion, vCenter Orchestrator, vRealize vCenter/ Virtual Center Server