Systems Engineer/Hardware Tech <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer/Hardware Tech Systems Engineer/Hardware Tech - Leidos Elkridge, MD Work Experience Systems Engineer/Hardware Tech Leidos - Gaithersburg, MD August 2018 to Present Support Terminal Flight Data Management (TFDM) and Enroute Air Management (ERAM) programs.  • Perform linuxcust upgrades on servers and clients to meet required software patches and program baseline.  • Installing required software packages needed for testing and un-installing after testing to meet program baseline  • Apply and configure firmware, software and patches to system components.  • Creating network filesystems and assigning network storage with Netapp. Adding storage space to volume groups as needed.  • Creating Netapp volumes and making use of Netapp's data deduplication features to help optimize storage.  • Creating and managing user accounts  • Using VMware's Vcenter and vSphere client to create and manage virtual machines.  • Using VMware's clone option to clone damaged virtual machines from their public image and configuring it to meet its previous configuration.  • Performing Test Configuration Management to test for system integrity and ensuring all physical labs are in baseline.  • Managing, configuring and troubleshooting servers running on AWS.  • Assisting testers in the lab to troubleshoot network problems and other software issues  • Reimaging new HP ML 350 and DL 220 Linux servers and customizing them to meet program specifications  • Configuring and backing up Aruba and Cisco switches.  • Using cronjobs to backup Mksysb and other system data.  • Perform workstation, server, network hardware and software installations and modifications  • Perform hardware and software administration using ATC engineering processes.  • Using cable diagrams to run cables under floor and above rack per the specifications.  • Setup and maintain system peripherals such as printers and KVMs.  • Terminate cables and testing to meet RJ45 standards. Cat 5 and 6 cable termination (straight-through and crossover) Systems Administrator NETAPP - Vienna, VA October 2016 to June 2018 Perform Systems Administration and Security services to multiple mission-critical Red Hat, CentOS and Ubuntu systems for NetAPP LLC.  • Installing, configuring, and troubleshooting software applications and hardware, as well as identifying and recommending new software/hardware resources.  • Ability to integrate Unix/Linux with wide variety of technologies - VMWare and AWS.  • User management and access controls. Configure ports for systems security and implementing operating system (Linux) enhancements  • Support installation, deployment, configuration, and integration of other resource tiers (applications and data) running on the Unix/Linux platforms.  • Installing kickstart server and associated shell scripts for automation  • Provide initial deployment services, including all initial planning and architecture, installation, configuration and maintenance.  • Apply and validate patches in response to functionality and performance issues. Perform system monitoring to ensure system operation health  • Experience in maintenance and planning for lab setups and installation  • Perform system updates - packages, security patches, bug fixes etc, using Yum, RPM.  • Participate and/or lead troubleshooting and tuning sessions with development teams, end users and any other related teams  • Provide security updates - vulnerabilities and recommendations to Security teams and management.  • Experience in Customizing and hardening operating systems.  • Ability to configure network, routers and switches and strong diagnostic ability (ie traceroute)  • Automate routine tasks using tools (such as Bash Shell Scripts and CRON). Automated configuration management using Puppet.  • Configure network parameters for multiple and secure access ports (SELinux and rsyslog) and network traffic behind firewall and load balancers.  • Designing and implementing back-up strategies using both Cold and Hot using RMAN. Data Analyst Fire and Rescue. - MoCo, MD September 2014 to December 2015 Data mining and Manipulation using excel-Pivot Tables  • Data analytics (Validation, Confidentiality, Integrity and Availability).  • Participate/support Software Developers during the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Gather and update Business Requirement Document (BRD).  • Provide technical guidance and participate in collaborative activities with Project Manager, Systems Admins, and related team members.  • Convert CSV files to XLS files and vice versa System Administrator/HelpDesk Avis Rental Car. - Silverspring, MD February 2008 to September 2013 Install, monitor, maintain softwares and hardwares. Helping with system lockout and freezes.  • Performed simple UNIX shell scripts with Linux and AIX flavors. Perform FTP under Linux O/S and secured file permissions.  • Perform system recovery and complete restoration.  • Inspect hardware and diagnosis problems, write-up and repair.  • Monitor and maintain LAN/WAN connectivity and troubleshooting.  • Performed user creation, profiles, granting roles and privileges in the databases Education Master of Science in Health Administration & Informatics UNIVERSITY of MD UNIVERSITY COLLEGE - Adelphi, MD December 2016 Bachelor of Science in Radiation Therapy HOWARD UNIVERSITY - Washington, DC May 2012 Skills System Administrator, Vmware, Linux, Active Directory