IT SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR IT <span class="hl">SYSTEMS</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> IT SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Porter Ranch, CA Work Experience IT SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Whittier Trust February 2012 to March 2013 • Created proposal and schedule timeline for a multisite Exchange 2010 implementation, which consisted of High Availability and Site Resilience. Managed division of labor between System Administrator and Network Administrator.  • Worked with Mobile Device Management Vendor to evaluate feasibility of BlackBerry to iPhone as an enterprise mobile solution for a financial institution. Created proposal of cost and schedule timeline for  iPhone implementation.  • Performed daily system monitoring by verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware, server resources, systems and key processes, system and application logs, and completion of scheduled jobs such as backups.  • Developed ticketing system workflow for new hire onboarding process through collaboration with HR and Operations. Workflow consisted of equipment needs, software requirements, and network security access based on position.  • Analyzed and evaluated incident reports and made recommendations to reduce help desk incident rate.  • Developed and managed hardware and software infrastructure installations, setup and/or upgrades schedule, scope, and deliverable. SENIOR IT MANAGER Pankow Builders May 2006 to February 2012 March 2013 - July 2019    • Negotiated existing IT service contracts and established partnerships with hardware vendors to drive down cost of over $100k per annum.  • Redesigned and established a standardized mobile branch office network, which reduced deployment time by 50% and a savings of $200k in hardware.  • Worked in conjunction with the Network MSP to establish a structured ongoing maintenance service contract, consisting of quarterly network vulnerability reports, patches, and hardware upgrades.  • Established and evaluated Policies, Procedures, Standards, and Guidelines related to technology.  • Led the migration plan of an on-premise Exchange environment to Office365 consisting of over 500 user accounts. Managed division of labor between external consultants, Systems Administrator, and Systems Engineer.  • Identified existing vulnerabilities and led proposal and development of a Disaster Recovery plan for company ERP system using VMware SRM.  • Technical lead for organizational process mapping implementation. Worked with internal and external department members to map current and new processes and identify potential inefficiencies.  • Collaborated with Operations and Virtual Design and Construction departments to develop a 1, 3, and 5 capital expenditure based on existing and potential technology needs, in addition to aligning the proposed budget with the Organization's 5-year strategic goals.  • Led the redesign and implementation of company intranet from SharePoint 2003 to 2013. Close collaboration with Marketing lead to incorporate custom company branding. Organized migration schedule and training plan, which consisted of departmental, committees, and collaboration sites.  • Led technical and audio-visual scope of the corporate office buildouts to provide identical user experience, ease of use and enhanced collaboration in conference room and training facilities companywide, consisting of digital scheduling board, web conferencing, wireless displays, and Crestron automation.  • Participated in Leadership programs to successfully develop department staff, increase engagement, and empower future leaders.  • Implemented email phishing awareness program by providing recurring companywide newsletters, education, phishing simulations, and training. Education BS in Management Information Systems CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY August 1999 to May 2004 Skills Cisco, Exchange, Firewalls, Networking, Solarwinds, Virtualization, Cifs, Compellent, Iscsi, Nfs, Raid, Srm, Saas, Sharepoint, Disaster recovery, Juniper, Vmware, Firewall, Ghost, Android Links http://linkedin.com/in/thaivqle Additional Information SKILLS  • Leadership • Teamwork • Communication  • Collaboration • Problem Solving • Adaptability  • Handling Pressure • Decision Making • Time Management  • Creativity • Passion • Customer Service    TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Networking: Cisco Switches, Cisco WLAN, Cisco AP's, Cisco AnyConnect, Juniper Firewalls, Meraki Firewall,  Meraki Switches, Meraki AP's, Ubiquiti AirFiber, Kemp Loan Balancer, and SolarWinds.  • Virtualization: VMware ESXi  • Mobile Device Management: VMware Workspace One and Meraki Systems Manager.  • Storage Technologies (iSCSI, NFS, CIFS, RAID): Compellent, HP Nimble, Promise Technology, and QNAP.  • SAAS: AWS, Azure, OneDrive, Google Drive, and DocuSign.  • Backup and Disaster Recovery: VMware SRM, Quest Rapid Recovery Backup, BackupExec, and AvePoint.  • OS: Windows Sever, SharePoint, Microsoft SQL, Windows, Mac OSX, iOS, and Android.  • Email: Exchange, Office 365, Barracuda Message Archiver, Sendio SPAM, and CodeTwo.  • Helpdesk Support Tools: SysAid Ticketing System, Bomgar, TeamViewer, VNC Viewer, PDQ Deploy, PDQ  Inventory, ADAudit Plus, ADAudit Manger, Norton Ghost, Acronis, and SmartDeploy.  • Automation: Crestron Simpl, Crestron Toolbox and Creston VT Pro-e, RTI, and URC.