IT Team Lead / Systems Administrator IT Team Lead / <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Team Lead / Systems Administrator - Office Star Products Rancho Cucamonga, CA Service-focused IT professional with over 5 years of progressive IT infrastructure and administration experience; specializing in implementation, deployment, management and support of Windows-based environments. Proven abilities in analyzing and delivering IT solutions with a focus on organizational needs. Work Experience IT Team Lead / Systems Administrator Office Star Products - Ontario, CA January 2015 to Present Promoted March 2017)  Promoted to a team lead position to direct a six-member IT team in handling all aspects of IT including database administration, programming/development, desktop support and electronic data interchange (EDI).  • Implement cross-functional IT skills training so team is well prepared and resilient when faced with challenging issues, which greatly improves IT incident response time and quality of work.  • Optimize system availability to improve average uptime to over 99.97% at both main datacenter and remote sites of multinational corporation.  • Refreshed Windows servers from Server 2008 R2 to Server 2016 to minimize security risks and outdated software vulnerabilities as well as improving productivity and efficiency.  • Continue to handle all system administration duties as well as providing technical support to resolve escalated problems from the team as needed. Systems Administrator VMware vSphere and PuTTy January 2015 to March 2017 • Directly administered 50+ virtual/physical Windows servers across multiple sites using Active Directory, Group Policy, PowerShell, RDP, VMware vSphere and PuTTy.  • Implemented new wireless hardware using Cisco Aironet wireless controllers and access points to reduce WLAN dead spots by a minimum of 40%, improving productivity across all warehouse locations.  • Generated scripts using Windows PowerShell to automate system administration tasks resulting in decreasing time to complete by an average of 300% and decrease possibility of human error.  - Created scripts to automate Identity Lifecycle Management, including but not limited to, creating, managing and decommissioning of user accounts and security/distribution groups.  - Built auditing scripts to monitor resource usage and produce reports for, including but not limited to, Exchange database/mailbox usage and server diskspace.  - Used vSphere PowerCLI/PowerShell to create scripts for VM creation, VM management/maintenance, and datastore/host auditing.  • Build/Maintain relationships with vendors/service providers; negotiate, manage numerous contracts, and handle IT procurement saving the company over $50,000 annually. IT Desktop Support Technician Otto Instrument Service - Ontario, CA August 2013 to November 2014 • Quickly troubleshot, diagnosed, and resolved issues with computer hardware, operating systems, and network connectivity ensuring operation reliability and quality performance standards for 2 facilities.  • Perform administration functions in Active Directory and Exchange 2010 for employees, new hires, suppliers and vendors which includes; new accounts, changes, password resets, and permissions/security changes.  • Handle procurement of IT related hardware, software, licensing, and asset management.  • Maintain, upgrade and apply necessary security updates to servers. Education Associate in Computer Information Systems Chaffey College - Rancho Cucamonga, CA January 2019 to Present Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, DNS, EXCHANGE, NAS, System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin Additional Information Technical Expertise  Platforms: VMware ESXi 5.0/5.5, Windows Server (2003 - 2016) OS, Windows Desktop OS (XP - 10)  Hardware: Dell/HP (Servers, Lap, Cisco (Switches, APs, Wireless Lan Controllers), Mitel Phone  Storage: EMC VNX5300, Synology NAS  Networking: DHCP, DNS, SMTP, TCP, IP, VoIP  Software: Microsoft Office Suite, Mitel DB 5000, Remote Support (UltraVNC/Citrix GoToAssist), Active Directory, Exchange (2003/2010), Accellos One (WMS), Microsoft Great Plains, Microsoft Visio