Remote, systems/messaging Administrator Remote, <span class="hl">systems</span>/messaging <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Remote, systems/messaging Administrator Houston, TX • Self-motivated problem solver with 8 years of professional work experience in the IT industry  • Deep and broad Microsoft Exchange 2010 and 2013 experience  • Operational experience with mobile technologies (BES, Good Tech)  • Mid- to Large-scale Exchange production operations experience where e-mail and messaging services are mission-critical  • Firm understanding of messaging best practices and capable of applying best practices to the operational environment  • In Depth knowledge and hands on experience with Microsoft Exchange and Lync Server  • Experience configuring and deplying messaging server infrastructures in a highly available scenario via clustering, DAG, load balancing, pools, and pool pairing  • Scripting knowledge (Powershell, etc) for administration, operations, configuration, and reporting  • Designing and Implementing Microsoft Windows 2003/2008/2012 Network Infrastructure  • In-depth knowledge of Active Directory and LDAP technologies on Windows  • Experience with server monitoring tools, and thorough understanding of Active Directory DC design, Schema, OU design, AD replication topology, and DC backup/restore procedures  • Good knowledge of Service Center for task allocation and approval and SCOM for montoring and alerting  • Very good experience with virtualization deployemnt and management via VMware, V-Sphere, and Hyper-V  • Business knowledge of Cloud Computing models, architecture and implementations in relation to Office 365  • Good knowledge of ITIL processes and how to apply them in enterprise scenarios  • Email archiving using Enterprise Vault  • Very good Knowledge of software development lifecycle, change management, and project management.  • Excellent team player with excellent oral and written communication and presentation skills.  • Profound ability to effectively utilise time and resources to achieve optimum results.  • Outstanding supervisory, analytical and interpersonal skills.  • Strong ability to manage conflicting and changing priorities  • Strong knowledge of Unix/Linux System administration and implementation with Oracle Solaris 10 and 11, Centos 6.4 and Red Hat Enterprise Linux servers.  • Patching and packages deployment Experience using SCCM  • Solid background in technical support and maintenance of data confidentiality, security; design and expand strategic business planning process for program expansion and partnership.  • Strong analytical skills; able to work with technicians from various engineering disciplines to troubleshoot complex system-level issues.  • Utilized email security tools such as DKIM,SPF and DMARC  • Windows server clustering and failover  • Good knowledge with Back up and restore proceedures and applications  • Capable of working independently or a team with little or no supervision: solving problems asking relevant questions to customers and engineers in relation to problem resolution.  • Adept using Microsoft word and excel, with ability to learn new technologies faster Work Experience Remote, systems/messaging Administrator Eagle Insurance - Chicago, IL October 2018 to June 2019 Supported on premise Exchange 2013 messaging environment for corporate users, managing incidents and providing resolutions to issues and incidents, while meeting all predetermined SLA's This involved end user support as well as server side problem resolution. I addition, I also had a supporting role with the Lync 2010 infrastructure.    • Managed tickets and requests for related to Exchange using the service now ticketing system to track, update, and resolve.  • Responsible for creating new user and shared mailboxes, distribution groups, and security groups.  • Maintained clustering configuration for Exchange 2013 server high availability through the clustering manager to monitor and maintain services and configuration  • Security implementation with the help of third party tools such as IronPort.  • Troubleshot load balancing issues causing client connectivity and latency issues.  • Configured ActiveSync profiles for mobile device connectivity to Exchange 2007 and tested with clients to ensure functionality  • Assisted with lab creation of Exchange 2013 coexistence for future migration efforts  • Deployed Lync Front End servers in a pool configuration for hosted services and Edge servers for external communications, allowing unified communications services both internally and for remote users.  • Utilized PowerShell for administrative tasks related to Exchange and Lync such as enabling users, setting policies, and retrieving deployment statistics. Exchange/ Systems Engineer NRG Energy - Houston, TX March 2018 to October 2018 Responsible for managing, maintaining and troubleshooting on premise microsoft exchange 2010-2013 enterprise environment. Resolving multiple aging tickets daily in the queue with the use of service now ticketing system. Monitoring and Implementing anti filtering and spam, check EOP SPF Spam issues and modify transport rules.    • Handled tickets pertaining to user sign-on issues, conferencing policies and quality, and call drops  • Creating shared mailbox linked to distribution list based on company standards  • Troubleshot issues with mailbox moves, monitored bandwith and migration progress, and reported on status and any changes in planning that were necessary.  • Assisted Linux/Unix teams with hardening, patching, and upgrades to Solaris 10 stand alone and production servers  • Responsible for creating batches of users, via PowerShell, to move on premise mailboxes to Exchange Online  • Installed and configrued Windows 2012 servers for eventual implementation of federated services on premsie.  • Manage and support Lync 2010 & Lync 2013 Unified Communications Enterprise environment consisting of sixteen servers, a load balancer, and several media gateways, providing voice and video over IP, instant messaging, presence, web conferencing, video integration and Unified Messaging for users across six global locations.  • Tested on premise connections to cloud services with the help of security and networking teams to ensure proper routing, authentication, comminication.  • Responsible for the design and architecture of Lync expansion to branch sites by deploying survivable branch appliances  • SAN storage management. Exchange/ Systems Engineer ZoneTech Inc - Atlanta, GA September 2015 to February 2018 Responsible for the day-to-day administration, operation, and support of Company's enterprise messaging infrastructure including Microsoft Exchange 2010, SMTP Edge Systems, e-mail compliance systems and Blackberry Mobile Technologies. I also migrated the existing Exchange 2010 server deployment to Exchange 2013 with negligible downtime.    • Performance tuned and optimized Exchange 2010 Server for maximum performance and continued operation  • Patched servers with updates and service packs following ITIL practices for change management  • Troubleshot issues with mail blockage, spam, OWA access, and slow performance, providing both on site and remote diagnosis and resolution  • Handled requests related to mail quotas, delegation, rights management and individual mail restores.  • Utilized Microsoft planning tools such as best practice analyzer, Exchange sizing calculator, and PowerShell scripting to prepare and plan for migration effort.  • Managed Exchange coexistence with 2010 and 2013 versions, created legacy namespace, and assisted users with connectivity issues  • Trainied users on cahnges to functionality, services, and Outlook features available.  • Handled move of public folder databases to Exchange 2013 using PowerShell scripts to autmate the process and versified contents of migrated folders to ensure consistency.  • User management, creating and modifying accounts, file systems, netowrk rights and access to file systems and directories.  • Setup, automate and backup data daily using third party application such as Veritas-Symantec backup.  • Configured and deployed Windows 2008 and 2012 servers in both production and testing environments on VMware virtualization platform,vSphere and management using powercli. Exchange Administrator Mayfair Games - Chicago, IL March 2013 to August 2015 Migrated Exchange 2007 deployment to an Exchange 2010 messaging environment for all user mailboxes and public folder databases to take advantage of new functionality. I managed the coexistence of the two infrastructures while migrating users and implementing high availability features within Exchange 2010. This deployment eventually became a hybrid with Office 365. I was also responsible for the support and management of the Lync 2010 and 2013 environments in coexistence.    • Used PowerShell scripts to gather mailbox statistics, and plan moves to Exchange 2010 of databases  • Created coexistence between Exchange 2007 and Exchange 2010, configured connectors, namespaces, and planned migration of user databases.  • Deployed DAG configuration for high availability of databases and created copies for server distribution  • Implemented and configured CASArrays for load balanced connectivity to Exchange 2010 for RPC client access  • Leveraged public folder migration scripts to move public folders and contents to Exchange 2010 environment and verified all items were successfully moved.  • Assisted with client upgrade process and testing effort for Outlook 2010 client for enterprise users in conjunction with Outlook anywhere access.  • Decommissioned Exchange 2007 servers after successful migration and verification of Exchange 2010 content and services  • Began the planning of the hybrid implementation of Exchange 2010 and Office 365 to create federation of services and coexistence.  • Readied on premise deployment for hybrid by analyzing the state of AD, Exchange, and the corporate network utilizing PowerShell, IDFIX, and replication and systems monitoring tools.  • Created hybrid scenario by registering domain, federating namespace, and subscribing for corporate licenses.  • Deployed hybrid servers for directory synchronization (DirSync) and single sign-on services (ADFS/ADFS Proxy)  • Utilized the Exchange Hybrid Configuration Wizard to assist with the deployment and configuration of coexistence  • Configured mail flow for hybrid and tested internally, remote, and external mail routing.  • Created batches via CSV files and PowerShell for moves to Office 365 for user mailbox databases.  • Troubleshot failed mailbox migrations, monitored migration statistics, reported to management on progression, and made adjustments to plans as deemed necessary.  • Provided documentation of steps taken to implement hybrid, lessons learned, and knowledge transfer to management.  • Setup, automate and backup data daily using third party application such as Veritas-Symantec backup.  • Manage and support Lync 2010 & Lync 2013 Unified Communications Enterprise environment consisting of sixteen servers, a load balancer, and several media gateways, providing voice and video over IP, instant messaging, presence, web conferencing, video integration and Unified Messaging for users across six global locations.  • Responsible for the design and architecture of Lync expansion to branch sites by deploying survivable branch appliances Systems Administrator Veracity Health Systems December 2011 to February 2013 Responsible for TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP and Basic Network Troubleshooting. I was also responsible for the installation of UNIX , Redhat and Centos 6.4 configuration, and introduction of servers into the network.I also worked hands onw ith other equipment and technologies such as VMWare and WM Workstation.    • Perform disk space checks and clean up as needed.  • Cables, cat 5,11 Switch (standard and Managed) and Router configuration and installation.  • Virtualization Oracle VM and VM Workstation 7 , 8.  • Answer customer/client requests or tickets concerning services, products, billing, equipment, claims, and complaints; and responsible for improving customer services through incentives provided to the customers.  • Continually maintain working knowledge of all company products, services and promotions, and responsible for troubleshooting technical issues related to operating systems.  • Updated and documented Helpdesk requests, and performed computer systems repairs and services.  • Troubleshoot desktop applications issues while maintaining excellent customer service.  • Perform daily upgrade OS infrastructure, avoiding crash dumps. Education Certified Associate Certificate Prince George's Community College November 2014 Bachelor in Psychology in Psychology University of Yaounde June 2009 Skills DNS, EXCHANGE, NAS, SCOM, TCP/IP