Jr. Systems Administrator Jr. <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Director / Systems Administrator - Global Home Finance Inc Denton, TX Seeking a full time position pertaining to the field of Information Technology and Server  Maintenance. Looking for a focus in networking and network administration. Intending to find a company  to make a career at and be able to advance and support myself and family. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Jr. Systems Administrator Austin Lane IT services - Denton, TX June 2019 to August 2019 • Managed Ticket Queue for a variety of clients.  • Monitor and Maintained Server Backups for clients.  • Monitor and Maintain Server and Network Hardware for clients.  • Setup new user workstations.  • Provided white-glove customer service to our clients. IT Director / Systems Administrator Global Home Finance Inc - Lewisville, TX November 2017 to February 2019 Setup of Network hardware and software (cisco routers, switches, etc)  ? Assembled and installed windows server 2008 r2, windows server 2012, and windows server 2016 on a series of HP ProLiant DL servers and Dell PowerEdge.  ? Installed and configured Microsoft Exchange 2013; transport, and mailbox.  ? Created domain (including setup of the primary and secondary domain  controllers) for the company with employee logins and tied AD (Active  Directory) to Exchange in order to allow users to unify their login information.  ? Installed Linux servers (Ubuntu, Gentoo) and configured a samba share to host  virtual HDDs (accessible from windows desktop as a shared drive).  ? Installed and configured 3CX VOIP phone server on Ubuntu; this includes setting  up a SIP Trunk and a routing table for DIDs.  ? Setup all physical VOIP phones and configured STUN for remote workers and cellphone apps for 3CX.  ? Administrates Active Directory, Exchange 2013, 3CX VOIP server, Domain  Controllers, DNS servers, and all user workstations.  ? Resolves issues with all printers; Dell, Brother, Epson, Konica Minolta. Support Escalation Engineer / IT Support Microsoft Corp - Las Colinas, TX June 2016 to November 2017 Work with consumers and other company IT professionals to resolve a variety of problems relating to Windows OS, Skype software, Xbox, Mobile Phones, and  general technical troubleshooting.  ? Manage case flow at the highest level of support for Skype Consumer escalations.  ? Balance caseload and disperse load accordingly to team members.  ? Collaborate with colleagues to resolve complex back-end issues.  ? Maintain Moral in the team and report breakpoints to upper management. Geek Squad Agent Best Buy - Flower Mound, TX June 2013 to May 2016 Worked as a Geek Squad Agent Diagnosing and analyzing computers for a variety of different problems like Viruses, defective hardware, and other issues.  ? Worked closely in a team environment dealing with a wide range of customers  from non-computer users to other IT professionals.  ? Utilized many different programs and software to resolve problems in a timely  and professional manner.  ? Working directly with customers and diagnosing and repairing on the spot. Education High school or equivalent in Computer Science Flower Mound High School - Flower Mound, TX August 2012 to March 2014 Skills System Administrator, Active Directory, Linux, Vmware, System Admin, Linux Administrator, SCCM, Firewalls, Windows Server 2012, Windows Server 2016, Exchange Server 2013, Office 365, Azure, AWS, Server Hardware, Switches, SIP, VOIP, Veam, Acronis, NAS Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ January 2014 to January 2017 CompTIA Network+ January 2014 to January 2017 Additional Information SKILLS  ? C++  ? Network administration  ? Virtual Machines  ? HTML  ? SQL  ? Mac OS  ? Windows OS (XP to present)  ? Windows Server (2008 r2, 2012, 2016, 2019)  ? Android  ? iOS  ? Microsoft Exchange (2010, 2013, 2016, 2019)  ? Lumia devices  ? Everything about Skype and Skype for Business  ? Remote troubleshooting and repair  ? Network troubleshooting (Physical and nonphysical)  ? Project Management  ? Team Management  ? Breakpoint reporting and resolutions  ? Physical PC hardware troubleshooting and repair (all manufacturers incl. Apple)