COPORATE SYSTEMS SOLUTIONS ADVISOR COPORATE <span class="hl">SYSTEMS</span> SOLUTIONS ADVISOR Information Security Analyst Minneapolis-Saint Paul, MN • Extensive knowledge on Assessment and Authorization (A&A) processes and related artifacts.  • Information System Categorization based on the Confidentiality, Integrity and Availability of Information.  • Controls Selection and Implementation.  • Risk Assessment  • Security Assessment Plan (SAP) Documentation.  • Transcendent interpersonal skills and verbal/ written communication skills.  • Work effortlessly in a team environment and participate in collaborative initiatives that foster the mutual exchange of knowledge and expertise.  • Aptitude for multitasking, work independently and as part of a team, share workloads and adapt to sudden changes in project priorities. Work Experience COPORATE SYSTEMS SOLUTIONS ADVISOR U. S. BANK April 2019 to Present • Assisting customers with questions and concerns related to their financial accounts  • Properly diagnosing customer needs and proactively educating them about system security features and benefits of financial products and services  • Effectively utilizing system applications to achieve desired outcomes  • Documenting required information via system applications  • Retaining product and process knowledge IT SYSTEMS ANALYST COMMUNITY OPTIONS INC May 2018 to November 2018 • Participate in the FIPS 199 process in which security categorization takes place, and selecting the technical, operational and managerial controls using NIST SP 800-60 guidelines.  • Ensure Organization is in compliance with Federal and organizational policies and procedures  • Maintained and updated system security documentation as required in accordance with agency policies and NIST requirements.  • Working with assessment and compliance teams to conduct assessments and ensure compliance for low, moderate and high impact systems, and ensured their HIPAA compliance.  • Working with POA&M teams to remediate Vulnerabilities for low, moderate and high impact systems.  • Remediate, validate, prepare and collate Security artifacts for the organization in order to pass their ATO and annual IT audits.  • Communicate with peers by sharing (industry) "best practices" and providing accurate, thorough documentation on "best practices" or other documentation tools.  • Responsible for monitoring compliance with information security policies by coaching others within the organization on acceptable uses of information technology and how to protect organization systems.  • Assisting technical team and leadership to ensure recommendations are maximized. INFORMATION SYSTEMS ANALYST KENSARE GROUP OF COMPANIES May 2016 to April 2018 • Reviewed and updated compliance security artifacts including but not limited to Contingency Plans (CP), Incident Response Plans (IRP), Configuration Management Plans (CMP), Privacy Threshold Assessments (PTA) and Privacy Impact Assessments (PIA).  • Developed and maintained System Security Plans (SSP) and associated security artifacts.  • Conduct third-party vendor risk assessments based on industry security standards and internal risk management policies  • Develop and manage the security documentation such as System Security Plans (SSP), Security Risk Assessment Reports (SAR), test and evaluation reports, security policies, contingency plans, Plan of Action and Milestones (POAM), and incident response plans. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES DIVISION June 2010 to April 2016 • Provided system administration support for Windows systems including server, router, switches and workstation upgrades, backup and disaster recovery monitoring and security administration.  • Performed daily, weekly, monthly maintenance, backups/restorative exercises, reviewing server logs for prospective issues, as well as ensuring that anti-virus software and security patches are routinely updated and functioning  • Reviewed multiple computer systems capabilities, workflow and scheduling limitations in order to increase productivity.  • Assisted in maintaining all configurations, architecture, installed software, accounts, data flows, ports, protocols, and other relevant data for each IT System Education BSc in Information Systems Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology June 2010 Skills security, access, testing, HTML, Active Directory, SQL, training, Microsoft Office, Sharepoint, Cisco Certifications/Licenses Security+ February 2019 to February 2021 Comptia Security + AWS Developer Associate November 2018 to November 2021