Toll Collector Toll Collector Toll Collector Houston, TX Self motivated with the ability to lead, train and maintain a productive IT environment; the ability to multitask and prioritize projects in achieving goals. Excellent team player with dependability and resourcefulness, Strong interpersonal and communication skill with good reputation for meeting daily demands for quality focused operations. Extensive experience and knowledge of Windows operating systems, Clients -servers network infrastructure environment; analytical troubleshooting skill, awesome customer service relations, the ability to work under tension and with over five years of progressive working experience in Computer Network Environment (hardware / PC repairs, installing, configuring, updating, upgrading, troubleshooting; Network device installations, configuration, troubleshooting and managing). HDD configuration & Management and Data encryption. With additional skill in office Administrative assistance and logistics.    Hardware Operating systems Applications  Rack mounted Servers  Desktop Computers  Laptops  IPod  Printers  Scanners  ASA Firewall  Cisco/ DLink Switches  Routers  Access Points (PTP/Multi Points to Point)  Projectors  Windows 2000 professional  Windows XP  Windows 7  Windows Vista  Windows 8  Windows 10  Windows Server 2003  Windows Server 2008  Windows Server 2012  Linux Redhat 5.0  Oracle Linux 6.0 & 6.3    Anti-Virus (Norton, McAfee, Panda, Avira, Kaspersky)  Microsoft Office Suits  Roxio Creator / Nero Express  Oracle 10g and 11g  Java(TM) 6.0  Apache-Tomcat 6.0.20 and 6.0.32  So Class 2.2.10  Eclipse  iReport for Database statistic  Adobe PDF  Internet Browsers Work Experience Toll Collector Harris County Toll Rd Authority - Houston, TX October 2016 to December 2018 Receiving payment, making change and operating a toll booth. Maintains accountability for each transaction; equipment, supplies and funds assigned during shift.  Prepares clear and concise reports of daily work activity and Incident reports on traffics. Sr. Systems Administrator / Team Head Liberia Revenue Authority May 2009 to March 2015 May 2009- March 2015    ? Coordinate and supervise the affairs of the Technical Team members (Application Developers, Database and Network Administrators; network analyst, IT Technicians and help Desk Supports officers) in line with to their SOPs / TORs.  ? Directly working with Team on the Installation and configuration of ASYCUDA World on Servers and Training laptop computers for training purposes  ? Directly Plan, Design, Administer, Configure, Manage, monitor and maintaining Windows 2003/2008 Active Directory Domain controller, Group Policy, DNS, DHCP, Linux RedHat5, Oracle and other Member Servers on the ASYCUDA world network infrastructure.  ? Directly install and Configure LAN / WLAN network devices such as Wireless APs, Cisco Router, DLINK, ASA Firewall, Printers the Network Infrastructure for management and Document all system changes such as upgrades, correction of errors and etc.  ? Manage, Maintain, Implement and Monitor all network resources, Users accounts in accordance with access rights (Create new users, Resetting passwords, Lock/unlock accounts).  ? Prepare daily reports for supervisor on any system status, analysis, development, OS deployment, as well as Implementing major system changes authorized by senior management  ? Ensure that all inventory records of all computers software licenses /hardware equipment are recorded and maintain at HQ.  ? Ensure that anti-virus and anti-spam tools are deployed on all ASYCUDA critical servers, that existing firewalls and other security software are up to date and running, that ASYCUDA database processing environment is free of virus and other security threats.  ? Ensure that Backups of all ASYCUDA critical servers are done on time and verify; users / clients are alerted of server downtime to prevent disruption of stakeholders operations and that database Backups are kept in a secure location.  ? Manage the procurement of all Operating Systems, Hardware equipment and Applications programs including license agreements.  ? Provide guidance/assistance relating use of ASYCUDA standard computer applications and facilitating implementation of new applications / reports to meet evolving and emerging needs of Liberia Customs offices.  ? Giving direct supports to customers onsite, remotely and by phone. Education BSc Walden University February 2017 Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in GRAPHIC ROAD COLLEGE OF TECHNOLOGY - ACCRA, GH 2003 to 2007 ASSOCIATE ST. JEAN'S CATHOLIC SCHOOL 1997 Skills Word, Excel, Power Point, Outlook (5 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/moses-vincent-b4670832 Assessments Problem Solving — Completed July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fjjcbhpwlwzpnz-0 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.