Windows Systems Administrator Windows <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Windows Systems Administrator - Fox News Fairfax Station, VA Creative, independent and poised IT Specialist and Helpdesk Technician offering over Nine years in both corporate and small business environments. Possess a cooperative and positive attitude and maintain a proven track record of using initiative to improve processes and to successfully manage competing demands while maintaining full confidentiality. Work Experience Windows Systems Administrator Fox News - Washington, DC July 2018 to February 2019 • Configured the hardware/software in the environment. Deployed virtual machines with Server 2012 R2 and Server 2008 R2.  • Created templets for server deployments in SCCM.  • Maintained user emails and passwords in ECP and AD with DirSync.  • Administrator to Okta and configured and synced them with other applications.  • Email filtering using Proofpoint.  • Hardware/software maintenance including replacement of Cisco firewalls.  • Updated local and remote servers using Ivanti.  • Assisted with helpdesk day to day issues.  • Transitioned to AWS for remote users.  • Set up Dell security used second factor authentication.  • Assisted and maintained the infrastructure for Fox News and 21st Century Fox. Systems Administrator Mantech International - Fairfax, VA May 2015 to June 2018 • Configured the hardware/software in the environment. Deployed virtual machines using Server 2012 and Server 2008 r2 using VSphere  • Created templets for server deployments  • Maintained user emails and passwords, as well as set up password sync from ECP  • Configured the whitelist and block list on the Ironport firewall  • Managed tickets using service desk  • Monitored servers in the infrastructure using SCOM( System Center Operation Manager)  • Deployed and created program packages using Microsoft SCCM( System Center Configuration Manager) allowing updates and changes in required applications  • Migrated the database at the Chantilly location to the Hanover MD location  • Administered admin accounts and normal accounts through AD. Systems Administrator hCentive, Inc - Reston, VA May 2014 to May 2015 • Server/Helpdesk Administrator for the US location  • Redesigned and implemented the infrastructure with a forest of virtual servers  • Configured and changed the hardware/software in the entire environment. Installing Server 2012 and Server 2008 r2 using Hyper-v  • Created an anti-virus Server with Kaspersky, and deployed it to the network.  • Also managed and maintained the Kaspersky server.  • Created a WDS server that was used to image employees computers  • Maintained user emails and passwords, as well as set up password sync from AD  • Integrated Office 365 and implemented Active Directory sync using DirSync  • Configured a Fortinet firewall with the required parameters with VPN tunnel  • Replaced the POE switches with larger 48 port switches.  • Set up a backup server with Crashplan and AD integration  • Designed a deployment package in Kaseya for monitoring, remote support, and many other various tasks  • Created software deployment packages along with updates in Ninite  • Built a print server to maintain print jobs on several of the locations  • Android and Iphone configuration along with Blackberry. Information Technology Specialist Petroleum and Marketing Group (E&C) - Woodbridge, VA August 2013 to April 2014 • Help Desk Representative/Phone Attendant for over 300 Store Locations and 80 local user computers with custom configurations  • Troubleshoot issues in Windows XP/7/8/8.1 as well as manage Active Directory and Exchange 2010 user accounts and emails  • Provide support for mobile setup and configuration iOS/Android/Windows  • Utilize WDS to perform system re-images  • Install and maintain anti-virus applications  • Use ServiceDesk and BMC Track-it ticketing systems  • Created installation scripts using C# for installing and updating Kaseya IT System Management Software on client systems  • Utilize LogMeIn, join.me, and Kaseya for remote support  • Configured and maintain network firewalls  • Deployed small network environments in different states  • Cisco support as well as 3COM and VOIP  • Built Hyper-v machines while managing other Virtual Machines on Windows Azure.  • Ran testing on Windows server 2012 R2  • Set up and configured Cisco ASA Firewall to work on several network configurations such as Dynamic, Static, PPOE Intern, Help Desk Engineer/ Service Desk CWPS, Inc - Chantilly, VA December 2012 to August 2013 • Service/Help Desk Representative/Phone Attendant for over 250 environments  • Worked with Windows XP SP1/2/3, Vista SP1/2, 7 32/64 bit, and 8 32/64 bit while managing programs including all versions of Office. Also supported MAC OS  • Set-up and managed all external exchange versions such as Intermedia, Rackspace, and Office365  • Managed Windows Server to include services such as Antivirus and their clients, DHCP configurations, Active Directory, Exchange, and various forms of security  • Managed and maintained virtual environments such as VMware and Citrix  • Used Kaseya management system to remote and monitor clients  • Implemented back-up storage configurations with vendors such as EDP, Netapp, Backup Exec, and Dell  • Managed large and small environment SBS and multi-farm environments  • Set up several firewalls/switches/routers at layer 2/3  • Replaced server batteries on servers and several other set-ups  • Set up RDP and other remote desktop solutions  • Managed internal/external hosted exchange networks and set up and managed Postini and GoDaddy  • Worked closely with Cisco and managed several different VPN and encrypted trusts between networks  • Configured domain servers and maintained them  • Provided quality customer service, technical knowledge and skills to be rated in the top 2 reviewed representatives on the desk  • Rebuilt computers and replaced parts as well as re-imaged systems to meet customer requirements  • Organized and chaired after hours study group with several of my coworkers Education MICROSOFT CERTIFIED PROFESSIONAL in MTA George Mason University 2012 Skills Active Directory, System Admin, SCCM, Vmware, System Administrator