Oracle Database Administrator Oracle Database <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Minneapolis, MN Seasoned Information Technology professional with over 9 years’ experience, 2 years as a Junior Systems Administrator and 7 years as an Oracle DBA. Experienced in supporting Oracle Databases 10g, 11g, and 12c platforms with extensive knowledge in Installation, Configuration, Patch Installation, Migration, Upgrades, Backup and Recovery, Cloning, Replication, Database Security, Memory Management, Data Modeling, Performance Monitoring and Tuning, RAC, Data Guard, Grid Control, and Oracle Streams.   - Experience in data encryption using Oracle TDE to protect the organization’s critical information and exceeding the industry standard.  - In-depth understanding of security and backup procedures to ensure database integrity.  - Experience with various tools, such as SQL*Loader, SQL, RMAN, PL/SQL and Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).   - User Management, creation, monitoring and management of database users. Altering passwords and granting/revoking access to system/object privileges, roles and auditing user actions.  - Monitoring & Reorganizing Tablespaces/Tables/Indexes.   - Databases Performance Tuning / Maintenance. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Xcel Energy - Minneapolis, MN February 2016 to Present • Installed and configured Oracle OEM 12C on Dev and test environments.   • Planned and performed Backup/Recovery using RMAN base on SLAs, test backup for corruption, Work with Flash Recovery Area as well.  •   Expertise in implementing data refreshes using RMAN utility, Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature, Datapump and conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 12c.  •  Run scripts to check the status of databases such as growing table sizes, extent allocation, free space, used space, fragmentation etc.  • Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  • Daily activities include writing SQL scripting, PL/SQL coding, stored procedures, functions, packages, triggers to enforce the referential integrity constraints and business rules.  • Part of team which provides 24X7 on call support for production and development databases.  • Used OEM extensively to monitor the general health and troubleshoot/diagnose problems in the - Strong skills in applying CPU, PSU and One-off Patches using "run Installer" and Perl based utility "Opatch" as part of the maintenance activity.  • Data loading using external tables, SQL*LOADER, Logical backups using full export and DATAPUMP.  • Identify long-running database queries, refine queries for better performance, and working with end- users to implement changes.  • Involved in each phase of the lifecycle (SDLC) including requirement gathering, technical design, development, system integration phase, quality assurance phase, development, and production support activities  • Supported daily administration, monitoring, tuning, and troubleshooting on single instance on UNIX/Linux, Windows server 2008 and 20012 (Database sizes range 100GB to 21TB)  • Monitored AWR, ADDM, ASH, Alert log, dynamic performance views, DBMS_STATS, Trace Files, System Event Logs for unusual events and took appropriate action according to company policies of incident reports.  • Capacity planning to meet the demands of the dynamic aspects of storage and memory for the databases  • Worked with developers to diagnose database related application problems, provided development support to maintain application schema and distribution of data.  • Managing, troubleshooting and resolving Oracle database and application related issues.  • Experience with applying Patches such as CPU/PSU patches, One-Off Patches, Interim patches as per the oracle recommendations. Oracle Database Administrator SuperValu Inc. - Hopkins, MN June 2012 to January 2016 • Restore and Recover of database from offline, online and RMAN backup.    • Table space monitoring, Performance monitoring and tuning for performance improvement.  • Granting roles and privileges to end users.  • Managing, troubleshooting and resolving Oracle database and application issues.  • Created scripts and scheduled backups in Cron for RMAN database backups and recoveries.  • Logical Volumes layouts, Disk layouts and Capacity planning  • Database upgrades, resource capacity planning, platform migrations, application consolidations and data center rationalization.  • Maintained database security via unique database roles and object permissions. Resized database files to decrease cloning, backup, and restoring time.   • Executed and provided ADDM, AWR and database health check reports to information owners and recommended solutions for improved performance.  • Migrated data from Oracle 10g R2 database on UNIX to Oracle 11g on a Linux platform.   • Maintained various SLA’s including ticket response and resolution time.  • Used range, hash and composite table partitioning which greatly decreased the DB time and SQL Execution time. Also performed instance tuning by changing init.ora parameters and managed region parameters such as shared_pool_size and db_cache_size with the use of AMM and ASMM.  • Managed database security by creating, assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity, auditing, and performing other security related tasks including Transparent Data Encryption (TDE). Junior Systems Administrator Cameroon Government - Department of Education - North West Region March 2010 to May 2012 • Design, Secure, Establish and monitor the IT network   • Switches, routers, and wireless controllers   • Windows 2008 R2, Windows 2012 R2  • Updating and monitoring IT user accounts.   • Maintaining up to date Antivirus levels on all machines company wide.   • Working on Active Directory accounts, GPO's and OU.  • Managing and monitoring of backups in multiple locations.   • Providing maintenance support and break-fix solutions.   • Working within a TCP/IP network environment, including DHCP, DNS and Ethernet   • Using remote control software tools to provide fault resolution and diagnosis.   • Administering & designing LANs, WANs internet/intranet.   • Follow documented processes i.e. implementing change control procedures.   • Involved in the rollout of software updates and patches.   • Liaising & meeting with external suppliers of IT services.   • Producing reports for senior managers.   • Maintaining a wide range of computer hardware and software program.   • Troubleshooting technical problems and implementing solutions.   • Purchasing of IT Equipment and software in line within agreed budgets.   • Supporting a multi-site IT infrastructure of at least 300 employees.   • Responsible for the fast and accurate troubleshooting of reported faults.   • Providing technical support via Helpdesk ticketing systems for a wide range of internal & external applications Education Bachelor's in Computer Engineering National Polytechnic Bambui - Bamenda Associate in Information Technology Centria University Of Applied Scienes - Kokkola Skills - Installation, configuration and upgrade of Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c using OUI, DBCA, DBUA, - Monitoring and performance tuning using AWR, ADDM, OEM console, Grid Control, SQL Developer, Explain Plan, Optimizer Statistics, - Monitoring Tablespaces, - Database Design and development, Oracle Dba, DBA, RAC Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate Present Comptia Security+ ITIL Foundation