I.T. Analyst I.T. Analyst I.T. Analyst - JPMorgan Chase & Co Work Experience I.T. Analyst JPMorgan Chase & Co - Houston, TX October 2017 to Present • Provided support to over 250K users, averaging 50-60 resolved incidents weekly.  • Resolved issues for access management, remote access, mobile devices, software failure, VOIP, Email, IM, system performance, and any other general technical issues.  • All Service Now incidents handled remotely connecting into users virtual desktop (VDI), physical desktops or laptops.  • Performed incident analysis utilizing and modifying Splunk dashboards to reduce overall incidents by 30%. Field Analyst KForce - Houston, TX September 2016 to May 2017 • Apart of Enterprise wide project to migrate Houston Methodist hardware and software systems to Epic.  • Audited over 5,000 workstations for software and hardware compliance, remediated and configured to meet standards to transition to new system.  • Installed, configured, and operated Lenovo ThinkCentres, laptops, and mobile workstations.  • Imaged PC's with Windows 7 using SCCM 2012. Desktop Support Compucom - Houston, TX October 2012 to June 2015 • Fostered a work environment focused on collaboration resulting in improving SLAs by 50%  • Supported videoconferences using Tandberg and Polycom hardware.  • Troubleshot hardware and software issues on workstations, laptops, and personal technology devices.  • Supported COTS (MS Office 2007/2010, MS SharePoint, WebEx, and Internet Explorer) and business specific software.  • Responsible for inventory management of all technical devices in organization. Systems Administrator SRA International Inc - Stuttgart, DE September 2010 to April 2012 • Exceeded service levels and consistently closed the highest number of trouble tickets on the team.  • Assisted end-users with installation, configuration, and troubleshooting of hardware and software.  • Performed password resets, created and modified user accounts, distribution lists, and security groups using Active Directory.  • Monitored unclassified and classified servers, switches, and routers, through Microsoft System Center Operation Manager and Whatsup Gold in a Network Operating Center. Systems Manager Glotech Inc - Baghdad, IQ August 2008 to December 2009 • Troubleshot up to Layer 3 network connectivity issues.  • Managed user data using Microsoft Exchange Server; including file permissions, data security, backup, and recovery.  • Single point of contact for handling 15+ VIP and Executive Level government personnel with transition to new American Embassy.  • Supported 10,000 users in Enterprise wide project of setting up all Information Technology in the new American Embassy. Client Services Administrator Intecon LLC - Baghdad, IQ November 2007 to July 2008 • Supported 100,000+ Department of Defense Employees including VIP's.  • Ran fiber optic and CAT5 cable, patched cables to switch panel.  • Resolved 802.1x port security and layer 2 network connectivity issues. Education High school or equivalent Skills MS Office, Excel, Virtualization, Active Directory, Microsoft SCCM, Remedy, Service Now, Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 10, Citrix, Cisco VPN, Customer Service, Acrobat, Desktop Support, helpdesk, training Certifications/Licenses ITIL v3 Present CompTIA Security+ March 2012