Systems Analyst <span class="hl">Systems</span> Analyst Systems Administrator Midlothian, VA Methodical, innovative, and performance-driven professional offering extensive experience in storage engineering and administration. Offer hands-on skills in all facets of system architecture guaranteeing stability, availability, and functionality to meet client needs. Demonstrate strong work ethic and commitment to accomplish work responsibilities within pressure- and deadline-driven environments. Display excellent interpersonal and communication skills in maintaining relationships with individuals of various levels and backgrounds. Work Experience Systems Analyst Duke University Health Systems - Durham, NC Present Provide operational support for block and nas storage, backups, Windows and Vmware technologies  Decreased potential for missed backups by creating procedures and reports for all operational shifts to follow utilizing EMC Networker and EMC Data Protection Advisor  Migrated 500 Networker clients to new backup server due to end of life support  Primary focus areas backups and NAS / EMC Isilon   Storage Administrator Wipro Technologies - Richmond, VA 2016 to 2017 Delivered data storage build-and-run services for multiple clients' global cloud computing environment comprised of various data centers and storage technologies; which included VPLEX, VMAX, VNX, XTREMIO, and RecoverPoint.  ? Developed customer system performance and service level agreement (SLA) metrics through migration of large customer from shared storage to designated arrays by using Symmetrix SRDF and VPLEX Data Mobility.  ? Reduced operating costs by identifying and eliminating more than one petabyte of unused storage assigned to several VPLEX systems which was overlooked from different customer migrations and cancelled builds. Storage Administrator (Contractor) Wipro 2015 to 2015 Supported client in attaining critical project deadline by migrating customer data to internal shared data centers using EMC RecoverPoint, VNX, XtremIO, and VPLEX systems.  ? Conducted training to other contractors during migration processes from conception to completion by using several scrips and manual procedures. Senior Infrastructure Systems Advisor Anthem - Richmond, VA 2006 to 2015 Managed the design, implementation, and support of storage infrastructure to include tiered storage, enterprise backups, and disaster recovery that ensured business growth, data availability, and scalability.  ? Demonstrated strong knowledge of the following:  - Cisco MDS Fibre channel storage network consisting of standard FC protocols, SANTAP, and FCoE in a core edge topology;  - EMC Symmetrix VMAX system with multiple tiers utilizing FAST virtual pools;  - EMC VNX 5600 with tiered storage providing block and file services;  - EMC Clariion CX series arrays;  - Mirrored EMC Centera system; and  - EMC RecoverPoint for key business critical systems, which included CDP for SQL and Exchange clusters  ? Offered team leadership and support within the Network Services Team on a daily basis to attain business needs and ensure 24x7 systems availability.  ? Rendered assistance on the design and execution of VMware environment through utilization of Cisco UCS hardware on existing storage infrastructure.  ? Served as backup support for Cisco UCS, VMWARE, Windows servers, and Windows MSCS clusters.  ? Provided expertise as technical lead during data center migration involving more than 300 servers and SAN environment.    Earlier Positions Held:  Senior Systems Analyst  Network Administrator Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Strayer University - Richmond, VA Skills SAN (10+ years), STORAGE AREA NETWORK (10+ years), DISASTER RECOVERY (9 years), VMWARE (9 years), ARCHITECTURE (Less than 1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/pub/glenn-myers Additional Information Qualifications Profile    Methodical, innovative, and performance-driven professional offering extensive experience in storage engineering and administration. Offer hands-on skills in all facets of system architecture guaranteeing stability, availability, and functionality to meet client needs. Demonstrate strong work ethic and commitment to accomplish work responsibilities within pressure- and deadline-driven environments. Display excellent interpersonal and communication skills in maintaining relationships with individuals of various levels and backgrounds.    Areas of Expertise    IT Leadership Enterprise Storage Arrays SAN Administration Performance Analysis and Tuning  System Design and Implementation Disaster Recovery VMware Management