Cybersecurity Analyst Cybersecurity Analyst Cybersecurity Analyst - Encompass Engineering Paterson, NJ Security Analyst with 5 years of experience providing subject matter expertise in Information  Technology services supporting security initiatives for organization Work Experience Cybersecurity Analyst Encompass Engineering August 2014 to Present Effectively utilized CSAM to carry out assessment, document, manage, and report system  security status.  • Worked with team members to identify and address security and compliance issues  • Review vulnerability scans to identify to missing patches for remediation actions.  • Conducted Certification and Accreditation (C&A) on major applications following the Risk  Management Framework (RMF) from Categorization through Continuous Monitoring using the various NIST Special Publications in order to meet Federal Information Security  Management Act (FISMA) requirements.  • Developed SSPs, SARs, and POA&Ms which were presented to the Designated Approving  Authorities (DAAs) to obtain the Authority to Operate (ATO).  • Provided weekly status reports on ongoing tasks and deliverables.  • Performed risk assessments to identify the risk level associated with findings as well as Conducting annual assessments based on NIST SP 800-53A.  • Reviewed artifacts regarding POA&Ms created by ISSO before closing.  • Supported cyber security analysis by conducting Vulnerability Management, Security  Engineering, Certification and Accreditation, and Computer Network Defense.  • Monitored controls post authorization to ensure constant compliance with the security  requirements.  • Reviewed and analyzed Nessus Vulnerability and Compliance scan results for remediation.  • Monitored security tools and correlated reporting and other appropriate information sources  to identify incidents, issues, threats, and vulnerabilities.  • Provided daily anomaly and alert reporting from all reviewed tools and sensors. Website Administrator www.bricksgraphics.com August 2012 to Present • Developed and maintained companies' websites alongside mobile application development  • Worked with development team to manage and design websites for companies  • Provided IT support to staff and produced weekly reports and actively participated in document control. IT Systems Administrator Almavis Limited May 2013 to February 2014 • Work independently to manage the procurement, deployment, administration, maintenance, and support of company IT assets.  • Administer day-to-day IT systems operations by proactively monitoring and resolving  problems with end user accounts, computing environments, backups, server notifications, network notifications, anti-virus, and disaster recovery components.  • Assist with IT projects in all areas of the company including cloud/server infrastructure, networking, data security, e-mail, mobile devices, remote access, and web services.  • Provide a stable and reliable computing environment by maintaining consistency among all  desktops and laptop computers by using system deployment images and maintenance policies Education B.Sc. in Computer Engineering Technology Houdegbe North American University Associate Degree in Electrical & Electronic Engineering University of Hertfordshire (Hertfordshire International College) Skills Nist, Fisma, Shark, Security, Information assurance, Risk assessment, Contingency planning, Risk management, Microsoft office, Excel, database, Management Links http://www.bricksgraphics.com Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ Present Scrum Master Present