System Administrator <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator Wichita Falls, TX Work Experience System Administrator General Dynamics Information Technology July 2018 to December 2018 Oklahoma City, OK.  Analyzed, planned, designed, and developed builds, tests, deploys and also maintained  various OS (Windows, Linux, and others) images.  Addressed escalated support tickets with point of contact and provided follow up correspondence to ensure quality resolution of issues.  Prepared test environment, test data, test plans, testing tools/technology and test  scripts to support quality enterprise systems in a lab environment.  Pragmatically updated and applied patches for various Windows servers and Vmware  host machines across an enterprise phone network. General Dynamics October 2018 to October 2018 Developed a script and a plan to systematically upgrade ESXi server versions across north  american on over 300 machines that hosted various FAA phone enterprise network services.  Worked with colleagues and clients to schedule maintenance windows, perform tests, and ultimately execute the scripting update process. Created a python script that utilized the  esxcli software vib to perform version upgrades. IT Specialist Groundwater Protection Council - Oklahoma City, OK December 2015 to July 2018 Provided daily onsite user, network, and systems administration support.  Maintained the www.FracFocus.org oil and gas regulatory system by aiding in work plan  management, providing support to the end user, Microsoft SQL database administration,  reviewing updates to site security, and updating and maintaining documentation.  AV & IT technical logistics lead for GWPC hosted conferences. Also lead site selection  process and contracts for hosted conferences for up to 400 attendees.  Assisted with and lead software project coordination for a .NET developed, nationally  used oil and gas well inventory management solutions (www.RBDMS.org). Groundwater Protection Coun- cil 2017 to December 2017 Played a major role in organizing and leading the version upgrade transition for an oil and gas regulatory software known as FracFocus. Worked with a software contractor as the primary contact source to discuss upgrade paths, make feature and implementation  decisions, organize stakeholder feedback, and test beta iterations of the product before launch. Corresponded with over 30 separate state agencies, multiple federal agencies, and a software user base made up of over 1,500 different oil and gas companies to inform them of release dates, major feature upgrades, training materials, and provide other important  announcements. Cloud Hosted Training Machines For Interactive Seminar, Groundwater April 2017 to April 2017 Rented cloud hosted space to setup Windows machines that hosted a variety of proprietary  state oil and gas regulatory software. These remote machines were accessible over the web  via the Windows RDP service by using unique IP address and domain names. 20 remote  machines were provisioned for our guests to access and test new and updated software and then machines would be re imaged for new group of testers and potential buyers. Information Systems Manager RMD Engineering Inc - Saskatoon, SK June 2012 to December 2015 Provided timely primary IT support and resolved tickets related to hardware, software, and printers for on premise and remote users.  Developed, maintained, and upgraded company intranet and internet websites. www.rmd- engineering.com, www.sil.sk.ca, & www.smw.sk.ca  Administrated Windows and Linux based servers, Windows 7-10 desktop computers,  various printer models, routers, HP network switches, Watchgaurd firewalls, Cisco  business VOIP system, BYOD equipment, software deployment, systems upgrades, and patches.  Lead the Information Systems integration and merging process following the acquisition of 2 companies.  Achievements and Career Milestones RMD Engineering Inc May 2015 to May 2015 Led the IT asset merger process by integrating users, software, files, hardware, service  based VMs, and more following the simultaneous acquisition of two companies. Migrated the newly acquired data onto our system and network by way of big data transfer, VM  cloning and deployment, user credentials transfer, and decommissioning their older  hardware and domain controllers. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Systems Southwestern Oklahoma State August 2008 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/william-blackwell-a0a10552