Linux/Unix System Administrator - Contract Linux/Unix <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> - Contract Linux/Unix System Administrator - Contract Work Experience Linux/Unix System Administrator - Contract Wells Fargo & Co - Charlotte, NC June 2018 to August 2019 • Administered Linux servers Linux (Red hat - RHEL /5/6/7), for several functions including managing Apache/Tomcat server, mail server, MySQL database, and firewalls in both development and production.  • Install and configure hardware and Linux software to all servers in the network per specifications of clients.  • Provided security consulting on complex issues related to data access and integrity in relation to server migrations from legacy security domain to mandate Fox T BoKS access management environment.  • Assisted customers in identifying security risks to their applications and implementing appropriate data security procedures and products.  • Working knowledge of bank security policies and government regulations pertaining to information security.  • Leveraged tools like Bash and Perl to aide in automated data gathering critical to successful migration for individual Line of Businesses (LOB).  • Responsible for Patching Linux Servers.  • Installed removed and updated and querying packages using RPM &YUM in Red Hat Linux.  • Monitored the servers and Linux scripts regularly and performed troubleshooting steps - tested and installed the latest software on server for end-users.  • Implementation of Directory Services and Identity Management for user populations in excess of 100,000 accounts.  • Installed, configured and managed VMware infrastructure (ESXi, Virtual center).  • Involved in virtualization with VMware ESX V Sphere 4.1 and created VM's and performed P2V and P2P migrations.  • Perform standard system administration tasks, such as patching, software and hardware upgrades, troubleshooting and problem resolution.  • Install and configure various services like DHCP, NFS, DNS, Apache Web Server, NIS, LDAP, Samba, SSH, FTP/SFTP, Send mail/SMTP/Postfix, Telnet, RPM Package Management, File System Management.  • Develop Linux shell scripts to accomplish redundant tasks to simplify in distributed administration.  • Perform day to day Linux administration such as user accounts, logon scripts, directory services, file system shares, permissions. Support Oracle database.  • Setup NFS and Samba File sharing on Linux and Windows servers.  • Setup and Manage environment using Puppet Configuration Management tool.  • Configured kickstart server and updating/applying patches to the servers using Redhat Satellite Server  • Installed and configured Sudo for users to access the root privileges.  • Extensive experience in the concept of LVM, User & System Resource Management and Job Scheduling.  • Performed common system administration task including adding users, creating file systems, configuring volumes weekly linksys. Unix/Linux Systems Admin - Contract Bank of America - Houston, TX January 2017 to June 2018 * Provide Technical support for complex database activity monitoring environment to maximum performance, availability and upgrades.  * Access changes for risk to production system and ensure quality, security and compliance requirements meets support areas.  * Define the environment needs for production implementation, number of virtual machines, physical location, size of VMs, backup location for servers.  * Planning, creating change request, Game plans for application deployment.  * Testing, Build, upgrades and deploy virtual machines with applications per request.  Support and manage OpenSSL certificates in Production environments  * Patching systems using developed and released codes, software upgrades, performing tuning and monitoring for optimum level performance.  * Build and support physical and virtual servers both in the Linux (Red hat Linux and CentOS) and windows world using BladeLogic, deploy applications like tomcat, apache, etc., as per client needs on the servers.  * Decommissioned and remediate several Linux and windows severs. In the decommission process, we use ITSM BMC Remedy to decommission the servers on the network.  * Creating and managing user accounts, enforcing account policy (password complexity, recovery, and lockout).  * Configure hardware and software, install Microsoft Windows Patches and updates, loading computer with furnished system images, perform computers re-images, and assisted users with data backup and restore  * Restrict access to files and directories using Access Control Lists file permission.  * Created and extended physical volumes, volume groups. Resized existing logical volumes for additional space as required. Unix/Linux Systems Admin, Enterprise Access Management - Contract Wells Fargo & Co - Charlotte, NC January 2015 to December 2016 Migrated servers and applications (WebLogic, oracle, autosys, etc) from one security system (VAS, WHOLESALE etc), to a more secured security system (BokS) using custom UNIX commands.  • Good in troubleshooting, monitoring, training and 24/7 production support in mission critical environments  • Experience in Installation, Configuration, Integration, Tuning, Backup, Crash recovery, Upgrades, Patching, Monitoring System Performance, System and Network Security and Troubleshooting of UNIX Servers.  • Migration of UNIX servers to Linux servers.  • Experienced with the installation, configuration and volume/File system management using Veritas Volume Manager (VxVM), Logical Volume Manager (LVM) and Solstice Disk Suite (Solaris Volume Manager).  • Backup management and recovery policies using VERITAS Net-Backup.  • Experience in creating physical volume, logical volume, volume groups using LVM's in Linux, HP-UX (ITANIUM and PA-RISC) and SVM, GFS (global file system) and ZFS in Solaris.  • Proficient in Networking, configuring TCP/IP, DNS, NFS, SAMBA, LDAP, SSH, SFTP, SMTP, SNMP.  • Worked on Puppet, Nagios, Spectrum, Cacti monitoring, and configuration management software.  • Deploy database change scripts provided by third party vendor and trouble shoot SQL server service outages as they occur, including after hours and weekends.  • Conduct extensive server discovery process to gather all necessary server/environment information required for successful migration in BokS  • Work closely with Project Managers, DBAs, Sys Admins, and business representatives throughout migration process  • Create, monitor & complete internal support tickets using multiple ticketing systems  • Train & adhere to strict security protocols and auditing requirements as required for a major financial institution  • Research and create detailed meeting, discovery, provisioning, and migration documentation Linux/Unix Systems Administrator Department of Criminal Justice Texas October 2013 to October 2015 • Created and managed user/group accounts, password and setting up permissions.  • Responsible for tasks like managing Disk Space and File System.  • Responsible for installation, configuration of Solaris and Linux servers using jumpstart and interactive methods.  • Maintains Solaris and Linux servers, evaluating needs and installs appropriate recommended patches and Create and configure Solaris zones  • Performs data management using native Solaris utilities for archiving and compression.  • Administers user accounts on Solaris 8, 9 and 10 servers. Customizes user environment and troubleshoots user logins using various remote login utilities.  • Utilizes the VI editor in accessing file contents and securely modifying them to meet specific objectives. Also, assigns file or directory permissions and enables group collaboration.  • Performs administration and monitors job processes using associated commands. Very proficient in troubleshooting system problems and ultimately solving them.  • Monitors client disk quotas and general disk space usage, conducts systems performance monitoring and tuning using different monitoring tools such as Nagios and syslog.  • Introduces new servers to the network, maintaining and troubleshooting network connectivity, firewalls and DNS hostnames resolution.  • Performs routine audits on systems performance, logs, capacity planning and system resource management.  • Perform system monitoring; CPU, memory, I/O, hardware, jobs scheduling and processes management.  • Create and extend physical volumes, volume groups. Resize existing logical volumes for additional space requirements  • Utilizes Nagios software for server monitoring and systems health with native Solaris tools and top. Jr Linux/Unix Administrator Beyond Technology, Ohio October 2011 to December 2013 • Created, managed user accounts on Linux/Unix servers, reset user passwords. Administered users account security through monitoring login logs for repeated failed authentication attempts.  • Monitored SU logs for unauthorized root usage and access.  • Installed, configured and managed proprietary applications on UNIX servers  • Monitored routing and remote access servers' usage by active directory users  • Installed, configured and updated Unix/Linux operating system. Skills Apache, Linux, Red hat, Solaris, Active directory, Dns, Tomcat, Sql server, Sql, Splunk, Dns server, Packaging, System security, Novell, Maintenance, System Administrator, Linux Administrator, Redhat, System Admin, Vmware Additional Information • Operating systems: Linux/Unix/Solaris10, CentOS6, Windows 2008 Server  • Software: VMware ESXi, Vcenter and VSphere Clients, Microsoft Office 2010 Words/Excel/Access/PowerPoint/ Outlook  • Hardware: Sparc T5120, T5440, T5240, Sparc M3000, M4000, Sun Fire V880, Dell PowerEdge VRTX, R720, R520, M620 Servers  • Networking: Basic Network Configuration in Linux and Solaris, Firewall Setup, Troubleshoots Network connectivity  • Programming Language: Shell Script    • Key Skills: System security, Splunk, monitoring, patching, and life updates. SQL Server, Tomcat, Apache, Novell storage Manager, Yum repository management and maintenance and RPM Packaging. Manage BoKs and DNS server for enterprise environment. Create LVM, manage virtual machines on ESXI and Venter, active directory, Linux flavors like; Red Hat, Centos, Solaris, Red Hat satellite 6, fedora, and Ubuntu.