Switchboard Operator Switchboard Operator Switchboard Operator - University of Maryland Medical System Work Experience Switchboard Operator University of Maryland Medical System - Bel Air, MD December 2018 to Present • Answers telephones, give appropriate directory information, and transfer calls.  • Lookup patients in Patient Census.  • If the patient is not listed in the public directory, call Guest Services (with patient's name and person inquiring).  • Channel calls for Medical Records/QHIM information to appropriate area.  • Escort visitors to appropriate areas whenever possible. Cyber Security Analyst (SOC) Computer Sciences Corporation - Newark, DE March 2016 to August 2016 • Eyes on glass monitoring and resolution of security incidents within established customer Service Level Agreements.  • Perform daily operational 'eyes on glass' real-time monitoring and analysis of security events from multiple sources including but not limited to events from Security Information Monitoring tools, network and host based intrusion detection systems, firewall logs, system logs (Unix & Windows), mainframes, midrange, applications and databases.  • Monitors and analyses attempted efforts to compromise security protocols. Identifies and investigates activities and conducts and provides analyses regarding results. Escalates issues to higher level associates.  • Reviews computer logs and messages to identify and report possible violations of security. Coordinates, documents, and reports on internal investigations of security violations.  • Interacts with customers to understand their security needs; assists in the development and implementation of procedures to accommodate them. Writes security status reports to provide system status, report potential and actual security violations and provide procedural recommendations. Linux Systems Administrator / Systems Engineer HRL Labs - Malibu, CA March 2014 to July 2014 • Vulnerability scanning using approved software tools.  • Performing validation of IA compliant system image and configuration baselines.  • If required assist in IT security incident response and documentation.  • Maintains Linux Systems comprised of servers and workstations  • Administer installation of software, hardware, file system management, backups, process control, user administration, and device management.  • Responsible for resolving a wide variety of complex system failures, troubleshooting software, hardware, and network problems.  • Configure Windows desktop and server OS, Configure RHEL OS. Provide DNS, Active Directory and LDAP configuration. Configure hardware and software for servers, RAIDs, storage arrays.  • Provide operations and maintenance functions such as hard drive removal, print server configuration, performance optimization, and research and installation of current patches, where applicable install and support printers and storage peripherals.  • Manage group shares and home directories.  • Conduct system backups and restores.  • Provide impact assessment for system-level changes on existing infrastructure.  • Ensure compliance with computer security policy  • Monitor system usage and perform system tuning  • Design and Implement Rock Clusters.  • Manage tools and equipment.  • Assist users with system problems.  • Schedule and conduct preventative maintenance on RHEL systems. Linux Systems Administrator / Information Systems Security Engineer, Consultant Parsons Corporation - Fort Meade, MD June 2013 to December 2013 • Maintain, configure, and implement various engineering solutions for a Department of Defense contract.  • Provide investigation and analysis for reported problems from the client's production operations group.  • Work collaboratively to understand issues, offer suggested work-arounds, analyze and reproduce product failures, develop short-term and long-term resolution to problems insulating the product development team as much as possible.  • Configuring and managing of enterprise Operating Systems across a large Department of Defense agency.  • Troubleshooting core internet and networking protocols including, but not limited to TCP/IP, DNS, and HTTP.  • Execute various tasks on behalf of the customer to ensure 24/7 operations of multiple systems.  • Tasks included loading and configuring operating systems, updating documentation to ensure accuracy, configuring DNS for proper name resolution across the network, and ensure communications remain intact.  • Provide network support for many programs.  • Managing VMs in a large government data centers using KVM Virtualization.  • Implement and maintain various networks.  • Develop and Implement Puppet modules.  • Configuring LDAP TLS/SSL servers.  • Configuring open source and commercial virtualization solutions into IDS and automating process using Puppet.  • Creating/editing Bash scripts to automate tasks and solve complex troubleshooting problems.  • Maintained code in a SVN repository.  • Configuring, deploying, and supporting web server platforms including Apache servers that serve out PHP code. Linux Systems Administrator Leidos - Fort Meade, MD March 2012 to June 2013 • Provided Tier 3 support for a Department of Defense contract; performed the following task in the Red Hat Enterprise Linux environment:  • Maintain, configure, and implement various engineering solutions for a Department of Defense contract.  • Provide investigation and analysis for reported problems from the client's production operations group.  • Troubleshooting core internet and networking protocols including, but not limited to TCP/IP, DNS, and HTTP.  • Execute various tasks on behalf of the customer to ensure 24/7 operations of multiple systems.  • Some of the tasks include loading and configuring operating systems, updating documentation to ensure accuracy, configuring DNS for proper name resolution across the network, and ensure communications remain intact.  • Provide network support for many programs.  • Configuring and managing of enterprise Operating Systems across a large Department of Defense agency.  • Creating/editing Bash scripts to solve complex troubleshooting problems.  • Managing thousands of VMs/KVMs in large government data centers.  • Implement and maintain various networks.  • Configuring open source and commercial virtualization solutions or open source IDS.  • Creating/editing Bash scripts to automate tasks.  • Editing XML files.  • Modifying puppet modules and running to Puppet to apply updates.  • Used Puppet to automate configuration management for Linux Services and specific applications.  • Manage dataflows that satisfy customer requirements. Open Source Developer Towson University May 2011 to May 2012 • Developed and implemented an open source, automated vulnerability assessment toolkit for the HIMMS 6 organization (Healthcare)  • The toolkit was essential in providing vulnerability assessment scans of the HIMMS 6 healthcare information system and providing mitigation strategies for vulnerabilities found.  • In addition, the toolkit was developed in the Backtrack OS environment. Technical Support Engineer, Level II Computer Sciences Corporation - Fort Meade, MD September 2010 to March 2012 • Identified departmental needs and make suggestions regarding technical direction.  • Provided after hours support as a Unix Systems Administrator maintaining and supporting backend infrastructure of Intelink's end user's applications.  • Apply knowledge of computing systems and software structure with other TTO engineers.  • Analyzed users' needs.  • Created flowcharts, diagrams, and other documentation.  • Performing antivirus scans and validating files as a Data Transfer Agent.  • Analysis of PKI certificates to ensure accuracy and validity.  • Troubleshoots network connectivity, and accessibility issues.  • Monitors varying networks to ensure they are constantly up.  • Performs daily, weekly, and monthly server backups, as well as software archives/data transfers from a range of Networks of varying security levels.  • Assist users in setting up blogs, remote access accounts, and accesses to several network applications.  • Creates electronic folders ensuring roles, and permissions are accurate.  • Provides senior management with any network irregularities.  • Responds to end user problems regarding account access and password resets. Service Desk Technician / Help Desk Analyst Log.Sec Corporation May 2008 to August 2008 • Responded to a host of trouble tickets ranging from:  • Assisting customers with password resets, and system lockouts  • Installing and maintaining hardware/software  • Resetting CAC pins  • Troubleshooting network and printer connectivity problems Education Master of Science in Computer Science Towson University - Towson, MD Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems Towson University - Towson, MD Associate of Science in Information Systems Management Harford Community College - Bel Air, MD Skills Linux, Red hat, Security, Vmware, Backtrack, Nmap, Snort, Splunk, Tcpdump, Wireshark, Html, Ms project, Object oriented, Php, Visio, Bash, Object oriented design, Uml, Use case, Database, Linux Administrator, Redhat, System Admin, System Administrator Additional Information Operating Systems: Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5 & 6, CENTOS 6, 7.5 , Ubuntu, Mac OS, BackTrack, Linux  Databases: MYSQL  Languages Bash , HTML, Java, PHP  Security Tools/Software: tcpdump, nmap, wireshark, Fast-Track, OpenVAS 4, Snort, Splunk, VMWare, VirtualBox MS Project, Visio 2007, Eclipse  Hardware: Various IBM workstations, tape backup units  Development and Programming Languages:  • Familiar with the languages PHP & Java  • Database Management Software: MYSQL  Model/Design:  • Object Oriented Design and Modeling: Designed and implemented various applications of a library using Object Oriented Design and Modeling approach.  • Experience using UML, ER Diagram, EER Diagram, Use Case Diagram, Sequence Diagram, Database Schema, and Data Flow Diagrams