COMPUTER SUPPORT ASSOCIATE I COMPUTER SUPPORT ASSOCIATE I COMPUTER SUPPORT ASSOCIATE I - Amazom.com Inc Riverdale, MD * Skilled in supporting and providing IT systems administration for over 5 years with a focus on RHEL; and Windows/Active Directory. Provide highly available solutions that answer the demanding requirements.  * Excellent client relation skills and the drive to complete tasks effectively.  * Ability to communicate effectively with all the levels of management, and the client community. Work Experience COMPUTER SUPPORT ASSOCIATE I Amazom.com Inc - Springfield, VA May 2017 to Present And Its Affiliates, Springfield, VA.    • Using Fulfillment/Distribution technology MWS (Marketplace Web Service) to achieve over 80% efficiency in the monitoring of system and associates performance.  • Inspecting systems and processes that affect infrastructure environments, taking ownership of service request and escalating to subject matter experts (SMEs) when necessary.  • Tracking inbound and outbound customer orders with consistent delivery of more than 2000 orders per day. SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR Albertsons Companies Inc - Laurel, MD November 2015 to June 2017 • Supported over 15 HP Proliant DL360 servers running RHEL 6 and Windows 2008/2012  • Administered user and group account permissions, and managed other ACLs for the environment.  • Wrote and debugged scripts in bash, and set up cron jobs for the automation of task/processes.  • Maintained system and software patches and firmware updates. Configure CPU, memory, and disk partitions/storage in accordance with standards and project/operational requirements as identified in the system design.  • Worked on day-to-day incidents/activities, and tickets. LINUX SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR DPI Specialty Foods - Upper Marlboro, MD January 2014 to January 2017 • Installed and upgraded Centos, RHEL 6, 7 servers running on VMware platform.  • Assisted in the installation and configuration of Apache on Linux servers running on VMware platform.  • Provided support in monitoring services on client servers; troubleshot issues and provided RCA for the issues on documentation.  • Worked on major Severities (L1/L2).  • Worked on day-to-day incidents/activities, Change on tickets.  • Created and implemented password policies on individual users and groups accounts SYSTEMS ENGINEER Randstad USA - Columbia, MD August 2014 to January 2015 • Installed, configured and upgraded Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6/7 and applications on VMware platform.  • Set up users and group accounts. Verified user accounts logs and implemented password policies.  • Worked with members of the Network Engineering group to resolve server/WAN related issues.  • Regulated services and troubleshot issues by detecting and correcting faults, providing RCA for the issues. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Peapod LLC - Hanover, MD June 2012 to January 2014 • Worked on Installation and configuration of Windows Server 2008/2008R 2012/2012R.  • Managed password configurations, process monitoring, Boot up and Shutdown procedures.  • Monitored system performance of virtual memory, managing swap space, and disk and CPU utilization.  • Configured the services for sharing files and resources such as NFS, FTP, SFTP, SAMBA and remote login through TELNET. UNIX ADMINISTRATOR Adecco Employment Services - Columbia, MD April 2012 to September 2012 • Installed operating system software, patches and upgrades  • Developed and used Bash scripts to monitor processes, and to automate a large portion of the routine administration tasks.  • Recommended and extended the file system using LVM to maintain systems vital to the day-to-day operation of Adecco  • Provided application support for monitoring system performance, and reviewed operations to ensure only valid processes are running, and took proactive measures to prevent service disruption.  • Utilized Spicework ticketing system for trouble management documentation. SALES ASSOCIATE Home Depot - Columbia, MD February 2012 to July 2012 • Received 10 - 15 customer telephone calls per day and numerous online orders prepared and packaged them for shipment.  • Cultivated strong relationships with customers, and provided comprehensive and professional service.  • Sorted out all faulty and damaged merchandise and reported over 50 expired products per month to the store manager.  Experience prior to 2012 upon request. Education Bachelor University of Buea October 1999 to July 2003 Skills Vmware, Nagios, Virtualization, Scripting, Bash, Windows 7 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  ? RHEL 6/7, CENTOS and Windows servers' 2008, 2012 experience on installation, configuration, upgrading, patching, troubleshooting and security enforcement.  ? Virtualization background on VMware(ESXi, Workstation)  ? Scripting ability in Bash/PowerShell  ? Ticketing Tool used Spiceworks  ? Monitoring experience with Nagios.  ? Others: Windows 7, 10 and MS-Office,