Security systems Technician Security <span class="hl">systems</span> Technician Help disk support Engineer/ Technician Cambridge, MA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Security systems Technician Sanofi - Cambridge, MA Present • Set up, maintain and troubleshoot security desktop  • Install and configure software (department software)  • Set up and configure Visitor Management System, printers and other peripherals  • Maintain and troubleshoot security cameras   • Install and configure windows 7, windows 8, windows 8.1, windows 10 and MAC Operating systems.  • Install and configure company laptops, desktop and workstation   • Working and administration on Windows server and application servers  • Maintain and troubleshoot channels, panels and readers   • Monitoring alarms   • Assisting customers through service log ticketing, system log ticketing, outlook email, , phone and in person.   • Assisting customers by remote desktop login and Skype   • Document issue resolution  • Maintain excellent communication with all end users and other members of the security department  • Work with local IT as well as other outside vendors as needed  • Assist with creating training materials for new applications, assisting with product roll-outs and participate in application enhancement projects.  • Identify appropriate solutions and/or discover and resolve defects, bugs, error, configuration issues and interoperability flows  • Record, track and document problem solving process, including successful and unsuccessful decisions made and actions taken.  • Execute other assigns projects and tasks as assigned by the Security Service Center manager Network Administrator Addis Ababa Information Technology - Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. April 2009 to July 2016 Major responsibilities  • Install and configure software and hardware  • Manage network servers and technology tools  • Set up accounts and workstations through Microsoft active directory  • Monitor performance and maintain systems according to requirements  • Troubleshoot issues and outages  • Ensure security through access controls, backups and firewalls  • Upgrade systems with new releases and models  • Develop expertise to train staff on new technologies  • Develop technical documentation, manuals and IT policies Helpdesk Support Technician Derartu Tulu preparatory School - Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. November 2007 to April 2009 Major responsibilities  • Installing and configuring computer hardware, software, systems, networks, printers and scanners  • Monitoring and maintaining computer systems and networks  • Responding in a timely manner to service issues and requests  • Providing technical support across the company (this may be in person or over the phone)  • Setting up accounts for new users  • Repairing and replacing equipment as necessary  • Testing new technology  • Possibly training more junior staff members Education Bachelor's Skills Active directory, Ccna, Cisco, Dns, Exchange, Mcsa, Tcp/ip, Dhcp, Tcp, Comptia, Information security, Android, Access control, Video conferencing, Excel, Microsoft office, Outlook, Powerpoint, Word, Customer service Additional Information Technical SKILLS  • CompTIA A+, CCNA, Information security, MCSA, Active directory(AD), Network management  system(NMS), Microsoft office 2016(word, excel, Access and PowerPoint ) Skype, Computer  hardware and software maintenance, video conferencing, Cisco routing and witching, DNS,  DHCP, TCP/IP address, WiFi configuration, mail exchange, backup and recovery, Antivirus,  office 365, Access control system on pro-Wach, Camera management system( Exaqvision and  Network client), Remote disk top support, service and system log Ticketing, outlook, Visitor  management system( Who's on location system) and portal application, IT Helpdesk ticketing  and knowledge-base systems, utilizing the system to record, assign track, close and analyze all IT  Helpdesk requests, Android phone, iPads, iPhones, and iMacs. Cloud technology, icloude, google  drive, one drive and google suite.  Customers service skill  • I have a friendly, service-oriented attitude and I can easily make connections with others.  • I can communicate and resolve technical problems with non-technical people.  • I am self-motivated, follow my manager's direction well, take initiative, and then work  Independently.  • work well in a team environment and can escalate cases in a timely manner.  • I am willing to learn and be trained in new IT skills & IT processes.  • I enjoy volunteering for new tasks and projects without waiting to be asked.  • I am a creative problem solver and are familiar with configuring, troubleshooting, and  maintaining computer hardware and software.  • work well with third-party vendors to resolve hardware/software problems.    ADDITIONAL SKILLS:  • Excellent customer service  • Excellent communication  • Excellent team work  • Self starter.