Mosyle Manager Specialist Mosyle Manager Specialist Apple IT Specialist / MDM Admin Miami, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Mosyle Manager Specialist Mosyle Corporation - Miami, FL October 2017 to Present • Leverage my knowledge and experience to provide customized 1:1 product demonstration/solutions to unique customer requirements in an enterprise or educational environment.  • Create and execute live product demonstrations and solutions via weekly webinar presentations.  • Consult with multiple vendors to stay current on all MDM related technologies and solutions on the market.  • Serve as additional level of technical support during presentation downtime.  • Assist sales team with customer support and ensure proper resolution of customer issues. Apple Systems Administrator Charter Schools USA - Fort Lauderdale, FL August 2012 to October 2017 • Research and implement new ways to integrate Apple technology into enterprise and education environments.  • Provide level 2 and level 3 support for all MacOS and iOS devices across the network.  • Diagnose and repair all Apple hardware and software related issues.  • Effectively communicate with customers and ensure resolution of their issues/needs.  • Analyze current business needs in order to create cost effective solutions while maintain high level of performance.  • Responsible for the setup, deployment and maintenance of ASM, DEP and VPP programs for 87 sites across 7 states.  • Respond and support users via ticketing systems, phone, email and other solutuions.  • Currently manage over 22,000 iPads and 3,000 Macs via various MDM solutions.  • Established and oversee the development of in-house Apple self-service repair program including working on employee in house training programs.  • Keep positive relations with Apple and other third-party vendors on pricing and support cost negotiations.  • Setup, configure and maintain all Apple Servers including all MDM support for OS X and iOS devices via Profile Manager, Mosyle Manager, Apple Configurator, and Apple Remote Desktop.  • Create, deploy and maintain Netboot imaging servers across 87 sites.  • Create training materials and resources designed to further develop staff skill sets.  • Serve as the CEO's personal technology advisor and local tech along with other C-level clients.  • Drive projects to completion and meet SLA deadlines.  • Experience with large enterprise and educational networking infrastructure including Content Filter systems and Windows OS, Active Directory and DNS. Customer Service Representative Verizon Wireless - Miami, FL February 2011 to July 2012 • Provided technical support for all cellular devices including portable Mi-Fi's  • Customer Service IT support liaison  • Provided weekly customer training sessions to help drive and establish new users while preventing churn  • Create iPhone Sales training program for South Florida market.  • Create iPhone technical support documentation for in store sales reps Education High school or equivalent Florida Christian School - Miami, FL Skills Bilingual Additional Information SKILLS    Bilingual: English and Spanish