Technical Support Agent Technical Support Agent Technical Support Agent Midvale, UT I am hardworking and quick to learn employee with a desire to do the best job possible no  matter the situation. I am passionate about working with technology and have the pleasure of  getting to work in the field I love. My previous employers have noted my ability to work and  adapt quickly, my troubleshooting skills and my work ethic. I have an MTA certification in IT  infrastructure and I am currently working on my MCSA Windows Server 2012 R2 certification  having completed both the 70-410 and 70-411 exams.  In addition to my technical aptitude, I possess strong written and verbal communication skills. I  enjoy working with people, and have consistently received positive client feedback on our CSAT  surveys. Work Experience Technical Support Agent Goldman Sachs - Salt Lake City, UT January 2018 to November 2018 Contract work)    While at this position I started off primarily supporting the Investment Banking division with end  user desktop support. I was then placed on an escalation team for Microsoft Office and Email  related issues. Within this escalation role my daily duties involved troubleshooting issues with mailboxes, distribution / security groups, and mail flow within Exchange 2010 and 2013 systems. A  secondary component of that role was troubleshooting escalated issues with the Microsoft Office  Suite. I was consistently praised for my troubleshooting ability and client facing skills while in this  role, and received overwhelmingly positive client feedback. Other duties include:  ? Work within our internal ticketing system to provide Windows 7 and 10 Desktop support  ? Support a global staff across the Americas, Europe, Middle East, Asia and Africa.  ? Manage and support Exchange 2010 and Exchange 2013 systems  ? Troubleshoot mail flow issues within Proofpoint:  ? Help whitelist false flagged spam emails  ? Release emails from our quarantine  ? Determine if missing emails are reaching the intended recipients  ? Message tracking with Splunk  ? Manage Exchange systems and Active Directory via powershell  ? Script and automate daily tasks using powershell  ? Work as an escalation point for issues with the Microsoft Office Suite  ? Support add-ins to the Microsoft Office Suite from third party developers:    2  ? Capital IQ for Excel  ? Bloomberg for Excel  ? Thomson Reuters Eikon for Excel  ? SNL / MI for Excel  ? Salesforce for Outlook  ? SMART for Outlook  ? Manage user accounts and groups within Active Directory  ? Troubleshoot Market Data applications such as  ? Reuters Eikon  ? Bloomberg Terminal (Open and Anywhere)  ? SDC Platinum  ? DataStream  ? Dealogic  ? Support and troubleshoot issues with Goldman Sachs proprietary software Junior Systems Administrator StrataIT - Encino, CA September 2014 to September 2017 I originally started at this job as a technical documentation writer, but was promoted to junior  systems administrator over the course of three years. The company was a managed service  provider, managing 700+ workstations and 30+ servers across 30 clients. As the Jr. Systems  Administrator my work roles included the following:    ? Work within our Connectwise Ticketing system to meet client SLAs  ? Deploying, managing and supporting Windows Desktops (XP - WIN10)  ? Deploying managing and supporting Mac OS X Desktops  ? Managing Active Directory  ? Managing DHCP reservations and leases on Windows Servers  ? Managing DNS on Windows Servers  ? Managing NTFS sharing and permissions  ? Managing our 3rd party print server (run on IIS8 via Windows Server)  ? Managing WINS server  ? Creating and deploying Windows Desktop images via PXE  ? Managing FOG Imaging server running on Ubuntu 16.04 LTS  ? Creating and deploying Windows Desktop images via PXE  ? Ensuring all servers had a local and cloud backup within the last 24 hours  ? Creating and maintaining GPOs  ? Managing VMWare ESXi hypervisors  ? Configuring Dell OMSA to work with EXSi  ? Ensuring Dell iDRAC was configured and available  ? Creating powershell or bash scripts to automate frequently done tasks  ? Managing Office365 Suite    3  ? Managing licensing for end users  ? Remediating issues with Exchange Online email  ? Configuring email archiving, spam lists, allow lists, shared mailboxes, mailbox  delegation and mail flow rules  ? Configuring permissions and sharing for Sharepoint Online  ? DNS record and webhost management  ? Creating and applying SSL certificates using IIS 7&8 and OpenSSL  ? Debugging LOB application errors for many different firms. Including but not limited to:  Abacus, Allscripts EHR, UPS WorldShip, YesLaw, Reporter Base 8, Sigmund EHR, AutoCAD  ? Remediating level 2 helpdesk issues  ? Implementing new technical solutions for clients as requested Technical Support Engineer Apex Voice Communications - Woodland Hills, CA June 2011 to February 2014 Company now owned by Dialogic)  Performed technical documentation writing, IT support to internal staff, preconfigure  windows servers with our software, and provide level 1 product support for the end  customers. My responsibility included:  ? Provide desktop support to internal staff  ? Performed virtualizations on older physical servers  ? Managed windows servers within Hyper V  ? Troubleshoot hardware issues on both desktops and servers  ? Performed basic networking tasks  ? Wrote Technical Documentation for software product  ? Create technical video documentation  ? Configure Windows server with fresh installs of our product for delivery to the client. Education Associates in Computer Science in Computer Science Salt Lake City Community College Present HS Diploma Seaholm High School 2012 Skills Information Technology, Desktop Support, It Specialist, Help Desk Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/shane-levy-683075bb