JR CONSULTANT / ENGINEER JR CONSULTANT / ENGINEER IT CONSULTANT / SYSTEMS ENGINEER / VOIP TELECOMMUNICATIONS SPECIALIST Nationwide Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience JR CONSULTANT / ENGINEER TORETHAN, LLC September 2015 to Present Integrated and developed I.T. Business solutions. This included Emergency and Urgent Care medical facilities as well as Oil and Gas Logistics U.S. based companies. Assessed current infrastructure and strategically planned  migration of customer and/or patient data. Implemented firewall, switches, access points, servers, desktops, printers, and many other devices in client facilities. Worked with vendors to establish connectivity between on-  site and hosted facilities via ipsec vpn and other similar technologies. Presided effective teams to ensure projects  were completed within projected deadlines. Ensured firewall and all device configuration is always secure.  Complied with PCI and HIPAA to ensure the sanctity of client's data. Performed routine maintenance of on-site  equipment and worked with support team of cloud virtual private server companies. Designed IT solutions  tailored to customer dependencies. Created and effectively deployed printers and group policies. Provided basic  help desk support to end users. SYSTEMS ENGINEER IFT DBA AMARILLO WIRELESS / AW BROADBAND December 2016 to September 2019 Designed, developed, maintained telecommunication systems. Prepared telephony/structured cabling/network  infrastructure quotes for commercial customers. Worked with client budgets ranging from single to multi- thousand or budgets ranging from five to a hundred thousand. Managed telephony hosted environment.  Developed automation scripts for various operating systems (BASH, PERL, PHP). Assisted in building monitoring  systems using Telegraf, InfluxDB, and Grafana. Administered customer routers, firewalls, wireless access points and switches. Developed core processes for diagnosing and identifying firewall, sip, and routing issues.  Monitored logs and debugged packet captures for troubleshooting protocol issues. Maintained and assisted  development of datacenter. Projects consisted of developing a strategic plan to migrate services to new and more efficient technology while minimizing downtime and budget. Performed routine maintenance tasks of all  systems. IT/COMMUNICATIONS ADMINISTRATOR QLVS INC dba Ideacom of Amarillo - Amarillo, TX December 2013 to December 2016 Built and managed business network infrastructures. Installed and provisioned Routers, Firewalls, Switches, ATA's. and other various networking hardware including but not limited to Cisco, Sonicwall, ProCurve, Fortigate,  Mikrotik, Zultys, ESI, Avaya, Adtran, Ubiquiti, Phybridge, and WatchGuard. Installed and serviced low voltage  cabling and systems. Understood and implemented Cat5, Cat5e, Cat6, Cat6a, Twisted Pair, and Fiber Optic cable.  Successfully terminated cables via RJ-45, RJ-11, Patch Panels, etc. Diagnosed and troubleshot various systems in telephony, networking, and IP and analog security systems. Education High school or equivalent Skills SIP (6 years), VOIP (6 years), Servers (6 years), Routers (6 years), Firewalls (6 years), Switches (6 years), Wireless (6 years), Wan (6 years), IT Management (6 years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/austinjjarboe