Freelancer - Tutorial instructor and Tech Support Freelancer - Tutorial instructor and Tech Support Technical Support Boulder, CO Customer service agent with 4 years of experience in customer service, merchandise, and tech. I am looking for a challenging opportunity in sales, management, and customer care. I have experience training, leadership, and services (tech and non-tech). Work Experience Freelancer - Tutorial instructor and Tech Support May 2019 to Present Communicate with clients on weekly basis via meetings to cut down on misunderstandings by 50%  ? Deliver edited, compressed, and presentable educational videos on weekly basis Flooring Associate Home Depot May 2019 to June 2019 Answer customer questions and requests over email in real time about our resources and prices.  ? Cut blinds (outside - inside mount) with precise accuracy,  ? Use lift procedures to bring heavy boxes down for customers.  ? Made sure aisles were spotless and up to code.  ? Helped 100% of customers in my department but also helped them in garden, plumbing, lumber and lighting departments Jr. Systems Administrator Biodesix February 2019 to March 2019 Ran hundreds of jobs on the Biodesix HPC Cluster via terminal and scripting to perform calculations and gather data outputs on real world samples of Lung Cancer outcomes.  ? Adapted to biotech software to perform daily tasks of organizing data from HPC jobs and Robotics team where I wrote code for the sensors and the motor.  ? The result of the project was I created results from the analysis to compare deep learning model versus the old model. Thus, proving that the deep learning model was providing accurate results in a faster manner. Student IT Assistant CU Research Computing March 2018 to December 2018 Answer customer questions and requests over email in real time about our resources and prices.  ? Provide support and help customers in seminars on resource and coding related issues we held throughout the year.  ? Help with keeping track of equipment used in seminars, video chats, and conferences we held around campus and on the way to CSU (our sister computing resource). Student Teaching Assistant CU STARS August 2016 to December 2018 Help with guest related issues and merchandise on the science equipment we used.  ? Provide support and account for the necessary teaching props and presentations needed to teach course around the Denver- area and state. Bausch Observatory - Volunteer SBO - Sommers, CO, US January 2018 to May 2018 In charge of explaining the telescopes we had at the Observatory, both the 20" and the 24".  ? Provide insight into the science behind the atmosphere and the sun on the observatory to teach to public what we do to gather great science images. The atmosphere and the sun are our setbacks into conducting research. Sales Associate CU Bookstore December 2014 to September 2016 Managed computers in the store for users to access online merchandise, online orders, book lists, and student bursars (tuition) account.  ? Made sure all apparel on the floor was tidy and accounted for at morning and night checks.    ? Accounting- Assisted in the analyzing of store revenue by counting the drawers after every close and by totaling all sales within a week in the back-account office.  ? Logistics- Organize incoming and outgoing orders to increase productivity of the online side of business by 10% Sales Associate Panera April 2015 to August 2016 Work with coworkers and customers how sales and marketing work on the ground and online, to make a successful work environment and business.  ? Train and supervise over employees on the bakery and behind the food prep area.  ? Increase the number of customers in a given week by using effective marketing principles  ? Manage a steady work area for employees that increased our customer response time by 20 %. Education Bachelor of Science in Astronomy University of Colorado Boulder - Boulder, CO December 2019 Skills Python, Detail-oriented, Punctual, Excel Additional Information Skills    Python Detail-Oriented Google Applications  Quick learner Excel Microsoft Applications  Punctual Diligent Hard-working