Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer Ann Arbor, MI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Engineer Thomson Reuters - Ann Arbor, MI September 2018 to Present Systems Administrator SJA Solutions - Grand Rapids, MI October 2016 to September 2018 Work within Professional Services team to plan, engineer and implement projects for customers. Projects include  implementing server, wireless and network infrastructure upgrades, performing email migrations to Office 365 from various platforms, and Active Directory migrations. Assists in planning technical roadmaps for clients to plan out  future upgrades and assist with developing budgets. Implementing failover, redundant and load-balancing solutions to mitigate business risk. Designing backup solutions to meet client objectives.    ? Serve as escalation point for advanced troubleshooting  ? Established project checklists to provide Sales a more efficient information gathering process to provide  estimated costs Information Technology Specialist Saginaw Control and Engineering - Saginaw, MI September 2014 to October 2016 Worked within IT team to support production. Initially performed helpdesk tasks (PC troubleshooting, workstation  installations, running network cable). Advanced to second shift team lead, shifting responsibility to troubleshooting  in-house developed ERP system for production, administering server and network infrastructure for main  manufacturing plant and four remote offices, and working as knowledge base for other team members on second shift.    ? Planned out and implemented IT infrastructure for 40,000 square foot building expansion  ? Assisted with configuration of monitoring solution Education Some college Skills VLAN, VMWARE, VPN, System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory, LAN, Wan, SAN, Windows Server Links http://linkedin.com/in/mitchell-mounts-aa285b112 Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching May 2016 to May 2019 MCP March 2018 to Present MCSA Windows Server 2016 June 2019 to Present Additional Information SKILLS  WAN (Routing, Firewall Configuration, Access Lists, VPN, Redundant ISP, Failover Solutions) LAN (Switching,  VLAN, Phone, Monitoring) Servers (Redundant, High Availability, Virtualization with VMware and Hyper-V,  Windows Server, Linux, Active Directory) Storage (SAN, vSAN, Cloud + Local backups) E-Mail (Exchange,  Office 365, Kerio, Zimbra, Migrations) Scripting (Powershell, Batch)