Security Analyst Intern Security Analyst Intern Troy, AL Global Business - Information Systems student at Troy University looking for a part-time position in Troy, AL, where I can apply my experience and skill set in a career related position until I graduate in May of 2020. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Security Analyst Intern Troy University - Troy, AL March 2019 to Present • Coordinating and conducting event collection, log management, event management, compliance automation, and identity monitoring activities using the QRadar platform.    • Support day to day event parsing and repairing of events that have missing or incorrect information, create log source extensions, and flow management    • Identifying security risks, threats and vulnerabilities of networks, systems, applications and new technology initiatives Client Systems Administrator Alabama Air National Guard October 2014 to Present • Manages hardware and software.  • Performs configuration, management, and troubleshooting.  • Provides service to end-users for operation, restoration, and configuration of information systems.  • Establishes work standards, methods, and controls for preventative, scheduled, and unscheduled maintenance actions.  • Providing core services by designing, configuring, installing and managing data services at the operating system and server application level.  • Standardizing user privileges and system settings using automated deployment tools such as group policy objects (GPO) system management server.  • Performing system resource management, managing system accounts, performing system-wide backups and data recovery and load and capacity planning and management.  • Applying computer security policies to safeguard systems and information.  • Manages infrastructure devices and systems using the latest approved software tools.  • Establishes priorities, maintains, tests, troubleshoots, and repairs voice and network systems equipment and circuits utilizing tools and test equipment. Education Bachelor's in Business Information Systems Troy University - Troy, AL August 2016 to Present Associate in Information Systems Technology Community College of the Air Force August 2015 to April 2019 Skills CSS (1 year), HTML (1 year), Javascript (1 year), SQL (1 year), Problem-solving (5 years), Active Directory (5 years), Information Security (5 years), Microsoft Office (6 years), Sharepoint (2 years), Network Administration (2 years), Cisco (2 years), Linux (1 year), Microsoft Access (2 years), Information Security (5 years), Training (5 years) Military Service Branch: Alabama Air National Guard Service Country: United States Rank: Staff Sergeant October 2014 to Present Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ November 2015 to Present CompTIA A+ November 2015 to Present TestOut Network Pro December 2018 to Present Additional Information Active Secret Security Clearance