IT Contractor IT Contractor IT Contractor - Tracey & Associates Coventry, RI Work Experience IT Contractor Tracey & Associates - Providence, RI 2019 to Present Currently converting production Excel spreadsheets into MS Access database with tables, forms and queries for manufacturing client.  Key Achievements:  * Building database to maximize performance and provide production metrics. High School Math Teacher Providence Public Schools - Providence, RI 2018 to Present Combined discipline plan and lesson plans resulting in increased concentration, participation, and an environment of student accountability. Established and enforced rules for behavior and maintaining order in the classroom. Delivered lectures pertaining to Algebra and math concepts while preparing students for PSAT & SAT tests.    Key Achievements:  * Increased students' SAT math scores by motivating students to maximize academic performance. IT Contractor TEK Systems - Rocky Hill, CT 2018 to 2018 Steered migration of PCs/Laptops from windows 7 to windows 10. Provided desktop/laptop support for the DoD as a contractor. Sr. Systems Administrator Department of Defense - Washington, DC 2016 to 2017 Jr. Systems Administrator TEK Systems - Tampa, FL 2015 to 2016 CSRA, Falls Church, VA  Assigned to the Naval Justice School, Naval Station Newport. Transformed server-based connectivity to cloud-based while converting Wi-Fi of staff and student desktops in classrooms. Coordinated with contractors to upgrade the Avaya phone system. Added and removed accounts for courses on deck as a blackboard admin. Provided support for conversion from wired NETC/TRANET network to a wireless network approved by the DONCIO using Cox as our ISP. Created staff accounts while adding/removing student accounts on Blackboard and Office 365 according to class schedules at HQ and two detachments. Migrated from Microsoft Office 2010 to Office 365.  Provided support for networked and standalone PC/Mac workstations/laptops, software, printers, and other peripherals. Maintained Secret clearance. Imaged laptops, as well as supported Chromebooks, Surface Pros, and 3 Surface Hubs at HQ and our two detachments.    Key Achievements:  * Implemented wireless protocols for printers, desktops, and laptops at HQ in Newport and detachments in Norfolk and San Diego.  * Prepared and maintained approximately 100 laptops, Surface Pros and 3 Microsoft Surface Hubs for Naval Justice School classes.  * Succeeded in transitioning from government contractor to an employee through display of exceptional performance.  * Utilized RoboCopy and wrote a batch file for attachment to servers and performed backups.  * The previous contractor assigned to school deleted data files and overwrote linked copy of backup exec with the trial version. No backups were performed for 30 days. Upon arrival, used.  Additional experience as Service Desk Technician at P3I, Inc., and as Systems Administrator/Analyst/Help Desk Supervisor at Providence Water Supply Board. Education Master of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology Florida Institute of Technology - Melbourne, FL Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology New England Institute of Technology - Warwick, RI Skills Exchange, Groupwise, Microsoft office, Outlook, Pbx, Windows 7, Novell, Avaya, Active directory, Citrix, Dhcp, Netware, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vpn, Backup exec, Pki, Ethernet, Dns, Networking, Remote Access Software Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/robert-brown-3b287018b Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  Operating Systems: Windows 7/10, Windows Server 2K3/2K/2K12, SuSE Linux 9.x/10.x/11.x, Novell Netware 5.x/6x/OES-2, Citrix XEN Server 6.x  Networking:  TCP/IP, Ethernet, VPN, PKI, DNS, DHCP, E-Directory, Active Directory, IPv4, 802.11x, Network Topologies, HP ProCurve Switches, SonicWall    Applications:  Microsoft Office 2016/365, Novell ZEN Imaging, Ghost Imaging, Backup Exec, RoboCopy, GroupWise 6.x/8.x, Exchange/Outlook 2007/2010, Avaya PBX