System Administrator <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator - Senior Care Centers Lewisville, TX Work Experience System Administrator Senior Care Centers - Dallas, TX May 2019 to Present Utilized Service Desk ticketing system to handle all tier 3 level escalations of system issues in environment with over 5,000 endpoints and users.  • Assisted in training tier 2 department in resolving recurring system issues  • Worked closely with other members of Infrastructure Team to resolve all outstanding issues at any of Senior Care Center's facilities or HQ office.    Created Powershell scripts to automate many daily system administration tasks  • Migration of on-premise mailboxes to Office 365  ? This would determine which on-premise database a user's mailbox resided and then created migration job that would move them to target delivery domain (O365)  • Creation\Termination of Users  ? Disabled user object in AD, moved to proper OU, removed O365 license etc.  • Migrate user profile locations for csv list of users  • Created frontend powershell gui for hardware services department to use for imaging. This allowed the unique imaging of various departments via one task sequence.    Served as SME for SCCM imaging and windows patching  • Created standardized Windows 10 image which was used for Hardware Services project of updating all Windows 7 machines in the environment to Windows 10  • Created Server 2016, 2019, and 1903 images to be used for creating new VMs in Hyper-V  • Utilized software update point role on SCCM server to create software update groups for Windows 7, 10, and Server (2008, 2012, 2016, 2019, 1903/R2)  Maintained DFS environment  • Have 3 Fileservers participating in DFS  • Performed maintenance on the namespaces  • Maintained fileserver permissions and storage  ? Setup monitoring of all disks to send out notifications when space was below 100GB    Supported server infrastructure consisting of 120 virtual servers & 40 physical servers.  • Windows Server 2008, 2012, 2016, 2019, 1903 standard  • Hyper-V Cluster, composed of 2 Cisco UCS B200 M4 blades, running all virtual machines in environment  • Microsoft Exchange hybrid environment  ? Exchange 2010, 2013, Office 365  • DHCP, DNS, Print Server, GPO modifications    Utilized Barracuda Cloud Control for managing Email Security Gateway device  • Cloud Protection Layer  ? Used for Office 365 mailbox daily backups & restores  • Security Gateway  ? Used for managing spam filtering for entire domain System Administrator City of Carrollton/Conduent - Carrollton, TX March 2018 to May 2019 Utilized Heat ticketing system to uphold 24 hour SLA supporting the City of Carrollton staff comprised of 1000 city employees and police officers.  • Worked on-call 24/7 supporting any Severity 1 issues (affecting multiple people)  • Proactively worked with other IT teams such as networking, desktop, and applications to resolve any and all open issues    Performed entire setup\termination process for employees including:  • Creating & disabling Active Directory, Exchange, and Skype for Business accounts  • Adding/Removing security & distribution group membership    Supported server infrastructure consisting of 120 virtual servers & 40 physical servers.  • Windows Server 2008, 2012, 2016 standard & datacenter editions  • Vmware environment running on ESXi 6.7  • Exchange 2016 DAG  • DHCP, DNS, Print Server, GPO modifications  • Hyper-V cluster running 80+ windows 7/10 vms  • Multiple SQL clusters  • Monitored storage and uptime of all servers utilizing the monitoring tool OpManager and created custom reports    Maintained large fileserver of which all department shares resided  • Setup monitoring of all disks to send out notifications when space was below 100GB  • Created shares and modified permissions on those pre-existing  • Secured specified folders by breaking inheritance and granting specific groups access  • Created security groups as needed while remediating folders with individual users added    Served as SME for SCCM imaging and windows patching  • Created frontend powershell gui for desktop team to use for imaging. This allowed the unique imaging of 15+ departments via one task sequence  • Packaged all department applications to install silently using batch scripts and powershell  • Utilized software update point role on SCCM server to create software update groups for Windows 7 & 10  • Upgraded Windows 10 machines from version 1607 to 1809 using Windows 10 Servicing feature  • Responsible for any software push outs required by new application implementations\projects    Assisted in managing over 500TB of storage utilized by the city & Police  • Storage products consisted of Dell Equallogic SANS, Netgear ReadyNas, Seagate Nas, and HPE 3PARs  • Storage devices were connected to physical servers via iSCI connection  • Created, extended, migrated, and duplicated SAN volumes and occasionally converted server disks from MBR to GPT format with no data loss saving the company many hours of copying data  • Backed up physical server data using Backup Exec and 3 2 1 principle  • Backed up virtual server data using Veeam Backup & Replication  • Sent tapes offsite on a bi-weekly rotation as part of disaster recovery process    Maintained Exchange 2016 On-premise environment  • Exchange DAG comprised of 3 physical servers running Server 2012  • Managed permissions on over 1,000 employee mailboxes  • Responsible for creating, disabling, and modifying user mailboxes, shared mailboxes, distribution groups, dynamic distribution groups, resources  • Routinely utilized powershell to modify calendar permissions, distribution group membership, and other admin related tasks  • Monitored database replication between each of the DAG servers and would troubleshoot if necessary    Supported multiple spam and web filter devices for the environment  • Barracuda Web Filter & Barracuda Email Security Gateway  • Whitelist/Block websites and email domains  • Investigate spam/phishing attacks to block ip ranges and configure content filters Sr. Desktop Engineer / Jr. Systems Admin Rent-A-Center - Plano, TX April 2017 to March 2018 Utilized ServiceNow ticketing system to close roughly 40 tickets a week  • Served as Tier 3 support for both field and corporate users  • Often worked with other departments such as Security, Networking, and Database administrators in order to fulfill ticket requests regarding database access/firewall rules/Active Directory group membership  • Responsible for troubleshooting and finding resolution to various hardware, software, and network problems  • Provided highly visible customer support through the performance of on-site installation, as well as overseeing any necessary diagnoses, troubleshooting, service, and repair of complex equipment and systems  Utilized SCCM to deploy updates, software, images  • Packaged and routinely updated standard applications in our Gold Builds  • Packaged and routinely updated driver packages for all model laptops/desktops  • Created task sequences from scratch for Windows 7 and 10  • Tested new laptop/desktop models as well as docking stations and edited task sequences for compatibility  Documented all current department processes for both training and reference purposes  • Participated in the ongoing migration from AWS and Citrix virtual desktops to VmWare Horizon platform  • Created images for desktop pools  • Packaged applications for use in RDSH & desktops  Implemented automation via Powershell scripts for various daily tasks which increased overall daily staff efficiency  • Removal of expired/old computers in Active Directory/SCCM  • Verifying/Enabling users on Lync Server  • Set attributes post image for inventory purposes in AD such as computer name, purpose, deployment status Jr. Systems Administrator Aspire Financial Inc - Dallas, TX November 2014 to April 2017 Utilized Open Technology Real Services (OTRS) to lock, assign, and close tickets of 200 employee company.  • Handled roughly 50 tickets on a daily basis for both corporate and branch users through remote connections and face to face interaction in order to troubleshoot issues on windows 7.  • Provided excellent customer support through email follow ups, ticket replies, and phone calls.  • Served as administrator for the company VoIP cloud phone solution.  • Performed maintenance on switch configurations and DNS server when moving network printers and wireless access points.  • Routinely updated the Windows 7 desktop and laptop PXE images.  • Assisted in the creation and maintenance of Active Directory group policies, distribution groups, and security groups.  • Served as one of two domain administrators in the company.  • Responsible for weekly HP storage media tape backups.  • Pulled tapes every Monday to be exchanged with returned tapes from off site storage.  • Checked in tapes from off site storage into Veeam Backup & Replication software.    Took initiative to automate the company new hire form reducing the once hour long setup process down to 10 minutes.  • Utilized Powershell to automate creation of exact word document given to new hires with all logins and phone/fax number.  • Included auto-generation of passwords for vendor websites instead of using  the same temporary password for everyone.    Responsible for troubleshooting various hardware and software issues:  • Replaced faulty hard drives, memory, power supplies on Dell laptops and desktops running Windows 7 Enterprise.  • Connectivity or performance issues on the virtual machines via VMware.  • Configuration and maintenance on Microsoft Exchange Server 2013 environment.  Created various Powershell scripts to automate routine tasks such as creating, disabling, and forwarding user mailboxes.  • 9 Ricoh/Lanier printers located at corporate and installing the printers located at branch locations using TCP/IP.  • Connectivity and performance issues with remote employees connecting to the company network via VPN.  • Configuration issues on Cisco Asa Firewall    Performed entire setup process for new hires including:  • Creating accounts in Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange, and Lync.  • Creating all vendor website accounts and sending employee their Welcome Form.  • Imaging new equipment via PXE and setting up user profile.  • Shipping out equipment for employee to have by start date.  • Manually setting up workstation and phone in office.  • Carried out the termination process for employees including:  ? Disabling AD account.  ? Disabling all vendor website accounts.  ? Forwarding phone and emails to manager.  ? Moving all computer files to network for managers to access. Education B.S. in Information Technology and Systems The University of Texas at Dallas - Dallas, TX December 2015 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, EXCHANGE, R2, MS OFFICE, WINDOWS SERVER 2008 Links http://www.linkedin.com/pub/adrian-chapa/85/819/252 Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Entry Networking Technician (CCENT) March 2019 to March 2022 Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS    Languages: Powershell  Operating Systems: Windows, Windows Server 2008/R2, 2012/R2, 2016  Packages: MS Office, Office 365, Exchange 2016, Active Directory, Skype for Business 2016