Security Engineer Security Engineer Security Engineer Denver, CO Experienced Technical Consultant / Systems Engineer with a demonstrated history of working in the information technology and services industry. Great team member with strong soft skills as well skilled in Windows server administration, network security, sales, team building, and public speaking. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Security Engineer PaySimple - Denver, CO August 2018 to August 2019 Duties include overseeing and hardening overall security of company assets, employees, and payment card environments. Handling PCI audit duties, Managing AV systems, Email security, and overseeing the external IT company. Also performing internal / external penetration tests of PaySimple Mobile and Web app before any major release or changes. Also Maintain security of Office365 tenant for Evercommerce and its subsidiary companies. Manage SharePoint sites and permissions for over 15 companies under Evercommerce tenant. Also working with the Security team in investigation of any potential breaches in the past for new company acquisitions. Using Nessus Tenable vulnerability scanner for all companies, creating reports and working on remediation. Systems Administrator Viriton - Denver, CO March 2018 to August 2018 Provided Tier III support for clients in the Healthcare, Finance, Gas & Oil industries. Acted as the escalation. Helped in the process of designing, building, and deploying various systems depending on client needs. Developed, implemented, and oversaw cyber security monitoring and auditing service program. Systems Administrator Computer Concepts Inc - Denver, CO July 2017 to March 2018 Main duties include Server setups, configurations and management. Customer support and testing / upgrades of their applications. Security and protection of the environment, including spam mitigation as well as backup and disaster recovery operations. Technical Engineer Greystone Technology - Denver, CO May 2016 to July 2017 Main duties include reactively responding to client tickets through the ConnectWise ticketing system and resolving issues either on site or remote via LogMeIn. Also, documenting issues and trends that we may see arise. Duties also include complete maintenance of client IT infrastructure, servers, workstations, thin clients, and networking equipment; as well as consult on upgrades and recommendations for hardware. Proactive maintenance in terms of patching, AV check, testing of backups, and weekly review of logs is also a part of the role.  Support Tech Greystone Technology - Denver, CO April 2015 to April 2016 Main duties include handling any remote overflow work and urgent requests from varying consulting teams. Some on site work when needed, for example help with City of Centennial municipality office move or desktop imagining at another on site. Most work involved remote Adware/spyware/infection cleanup and Active Directory work, (password resets and user management).  Security Fraud Agent for USAA clients Teletech - Greeley, CO September 2014 to February 2015 Assisted members who received fraud on their accounts by helping identify, and stop any  fraudulent actively, as well setup members with new account numbers and cards. Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Information Systems University of Northern Colorado May 2015 Skills Cyber Security, Nessus, Palo Alto, Splunk, Siem, Network Security, Information Security, Windows Server (5 years), Active Directory, System Admin, Linux, System Administrator, Vmware, Vendor Management (5 years), Disaster Recovery, Security tools Nmap, Burp Suite, and Sqlmap, PowerShell scripting, Securing / Administering AWS VPC, Meraki cloud managed security appliances, Cisco ASA, Office365 Administration (6 years), Azure AD, Office365 (5 years), SCCM, Linux Administrator Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/rameezlalani Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Network+ CompTIA Security+ HIPAA Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ge7z8358zvcio0z6 Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/abpkauet-4txeclm Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.