IT Systems Administrator IT <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Lead Network Technician- DataCable21 Woodbridge, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Systems Administrator Hermanek Stover Associates July 2015 to Present • Install, configure, update and maintain computer and networking technology.  • Monitor security risks and complete hardware and software upgrades to minimize or avoid threats.  • Perform data migration and implementation for server and workstation updates or replacements.    • Train end-users on correct operation, use of workstations to maintain optimal performance and functionality of systems through practicums.  • Oversee hardware inventory and ordered new supplies.  • Perform troubleshooting, repair, and maintenance of computer systems, hardware, peripherals, and telephony.  • Analyze system requirements to efficiently isolate and resolve a wide array of technical issues.  • Perform security administration functions for user and data access.  • Implement new procedures and technologies to strengthen security measures, enhance operational efficiency, and control costs. Education Bachelor of Science (in process) in Information Technology George Mason University - Fairfax, VA Present Associate of Science in Information Technology Northern Virginia Community College - Annandale, VA May 2015 Skills System Administrator, Active Directory (1 year), System Admin (3 years), Vmware (1 year), Remote desktop support (Less than 1 year), Microsoft office (5 years), Windows 7 (6 years), Windows 10 (3 years), VPN (2 years), Server 2012 (1 year), Tenable nessus vulnerability scanner (1 year), Networking, Cisco, security, LAN Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified May 2013 to May 2016 Network+ Certification July 2013 to July 2016 Security+ July 2013 to July 2016 CCNA Routing and Switching In process of being certified Additional Information System Administration | Project Management | Testing & Troubleshooting | Data Backup & Recovery    • Provide networking/desktop support and perform systems and account-maintenance tasks.  • Expertly manage technical support operations, diligently troubleshooting issues to identify root causes and prevent recurrence.  • Handle technical troubleshooting within an enterprise environment, including system crashes, slow-downs and data recoveries.  • Initiated transformative IT policies designed to harden system security, including enhanced measures for password requirements and user access.  • Communication skills with 3 different languages: English, Lao, Spanish.