IT Systems Administrator IT <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Systems Administrator Columbia, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Systems Administrator Networking Technologies and Support, Inc - Gaithersburg, MD November 2017 to February 2019 Worked as a consultant on a small team to provide deployment and support services to the Bon  Secours Mercy HFM department merger.  • Configured Citrix VPN and remote applications based on Azure cloud services with supervision  and set up client-side access.  • Created user accounts, OUs and distributed group policy objects for the new department  members via active directory.  • Performed daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware, server  resources and key processes, and provided on-site and remote support as needed.  • Executed backup operations for HFM systems on a daily and live update basis. IT Support Technician University of Maryland, Electrical & Computer Engineering - College Park, MD November 2014 to September 2017 Diagnosed and repaired software, hardware issues for faculty and staff.  ? Performed routine maintenance on Linux Redhat servers, pushed system and application  updates to network images.  ? Wrote logon scripts for new group policy objects to distribute specific network drives and printers for incoming research groups.  ? Managed deployment for incoming graduate research groups ensuring their needs were met to the best of our capabilities.  ? Checked in monthly to confirm faculty and staff were in the correct domain with accurate group  policy and subsequent permissions.    Technical  ? Programming Languages: Java, C++, JS, Android Java, Node.js, Python, Microsoft VBA, Ruby  ? OS familiarity: Windows 7/8/10/Server 2012, Mac OSX, Redhat, Android OS, iOS Education Bachelor's in Computer Science University of Maryland-College Park - College Park, MD January 2015 to May 2019 Bachelor of Science in Aerospace Engineering in Aerospace Engineering University of Maryland - College Park, MD September 2013 to May 2019 Skills Active Directory, Redhat, System Administrator Additional Information Technical Projects                                                                                                            University of Maryland, Gamera II, Solar Powered Rotorcraft             College Park, MD  Flight Software Team                                                            September 2014-May 2015  • Worked on a team of five members to design a control algorithm that was capable of stabilizing the rotorcraft with under a four second steady state response time.  • Implemented the compensator using an Arduino microcontroller with real-time feedback loops via multiple gyroscopic sensors.  • Utilized multiple C++ flight controller libraries to save on overhead time, meet project deadlines and stay within budget.   • Incorporated a robust tracking mechanism into the control algorithm that was modular enough to handle multiple different obstacle courses.    TransitPush, Android Application                                                        College Park, MD   Full Stack Developer                                                               August 2015-March 2016  • Developed an android application that pushed notifications via Parse servers to alert users in real time about incoming transit in New York City.  • Stored user defined bus routes and alarm windows with Parse integrated SQL plugins.  • Checked for active alarms, sorted MTA real-time bus data and managed push queue through Node.js and cron jobs.  • Averaged arrival times through excel and VBA scripts that corresponded the day of the week and the date over the last five years to provide approximate subway push predictions.  • Designed a user-friendly interface with intuitive and limited path options using Android toasts as user feedback mechanisms.