Linux System Administrator Linux <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Linux System Administrator - Modest Technology Solutions (Remote) Provide effective solutions for Linux and Windows based systems including administration, configuration, and monitoring while continuing to enhance my technical skills towards cutting edge technologies in order to deliver valuable resources. Work Experience Linux System Administrator Modest Technology Solutions (Remote) - Laurel, MD January 2016 to Present • Build Vmware and Virtual Box, configure the network services like IP Address and Hostname, create and manage user accounts, automate tasks like patching for over 1000 server using Ansible, run bash scripts to manage root permissions, compress files .tar files and monitor malware using webroot which protects PCs from viruses.  • Create LVM to allow virtual memory extension and use RAID 0, 1 and 10 to back up data. Monitor disk usage using collectd and perform troubleshoot on all tools.  • Lead training sessions for new team members on how to install VirtualBox and packages using Linux command line.  • Build relationships and maintain communication with external vendors with in different departments.  • Administer all performance for various resources, provide support to all applications and ensure optimal level of customer services.  • Analyze cost effect solutions for business compliance by researching the market to gain information on the latest updates and share knowledge with the team. Assistant Manager/ Systems Administrator National Vision Inc - Richmond, VA July 2015 to Present • Answer calls to create tickets and callback users for updates.  • Monitor customer orders to ensure that they're entered correctly in the SDS database.  • Manage associate scheduling.  • Train associates on how to use Citrix Apps like DayForce and SDS.  • Create an action plan for the store daily goals and motivate the team to work towards the goals by rewarding them.  • Create excellent customer experience by ensuring each client is served in a timely manner. Education Newcastle High School August 2007 Skills CITRIX, VMWARE, RAID, BASH, SCRIPTING, Linux, Red Hat, Redhat, System Admin, Linux Administrator, System Administrator, Active Directory Additional Information Operating Systems  RedHat 6&7, Widows 10.  Languages  Bash Scripting  Software/Applications/Tools  VMware, ServiceNow, Ansible, MobaXterm, Citrix, Webroot, SELinux and CollectD  Hardware/ Storage  HP ProLiant, EXT4, XFS, RAID 0,1&10, Unitrend backup.