Security Forces/Client Systems Augmentee Technician Security Forces/Client <span class="hl">Systems</span> Augmentee Technician Security Forces/Client Systems Augmentee Technician - 179th Airlift Wing Communications Flight Mansfield, OH United States Air Force Security Forces Staff Sargent with extensive training in law enforcement, with a focus in CyberCrime and Communications, and responding to urgent missions seeking a challenging role to highlight leadership skills and further enhance career path.  Specialized Experience:  • I have 5+ years of combined law enforcement and communications and customer support from the United States Air Force, Overseas Active Duty roles, and government careers I have held. In addition, I have academic experience from technical courses (includes 3P501, Client Systems Augmentee School.  • My experience, allows me to be able to effectively plan the order of activities necessary for the fulfillment of the assignments inside and out of my organization. Such experience was established from my time at The Ohio Air National Guard in which I would apply time and task management, display and product repair, structural composition of displays, planogram readings and modifications, communicate with vendors and customers, and managing technology.  • I have attained additional experience through my pursuit of a Bachelor's of Science in Computer (cyber security focus). The degree program content focuses on network administration, advanced network security and computer applications through hands on approaches. Work Experience Security Forces/Client Systems Augmentee Technician 179th Airlift Wing Communications Flight February 2014 to Present Purpose: To ensure Confidentiality, Integrity, Availability, and Non-Repudiation of all data and information systems for the wing.    Responsibilities:  • Operate fixed and deployed information technology (IT) and telecommunications resources to monitor, evaluate and maintain systems, policy and procedures to protect clients, networks, data/voice systems and databases from unauthorized activity.  • Observed and analyzed traffic in order to learn valuable lessons from known malicious actors and to determine countermeasures against such threats. Developed coordinated, implemented and maintained standards and procedures to protect the security and integrity of information systems and data.  • Make recommendations to senior management on results of analysis and work closely with other Information Technology groups to refine and enhance security controls.  • Configured Local Area Network with a heightened awareness of Network Security.  • Interacted with cyber intelligence analysts conducting threat analysis operations as well as numerous IT professionals performing varying technical roles within the client organization.  • Worked with outside vendors and teams to develop voice and data wiring infrastructure.  • Conduct risk assessments and collaborate with clients to provide recommendations regarding critical infrastructure and network security operations enhancements.  • Identify potential threats and manage resolution of security violations. Client Systems Augmentee January 2017 to June 2017 Base and Network Defense Team: Purpose: To develop and implement security procedures as well as network controls and management to ensure that network assets and vital base assets are secured and vulnerabilities are contained and minamalized to lower risk to an acceptable level.  Responsibilities:  • Configured and improved over 60 previous base wide Network and physical Security procedures.  • Worked with leadership to update security manuals and address current concerns.  • Updated security software and physical points to prevent database security threats.  • Assisted in resolutions of 842 support requests and communications to over 12,400 users.  • Reviewed system access data and monitored hardpoint access.  • Eliminated over 13,000 cyber and physical vulnerabilities and postured the base for Windows 10 deployment.  • Reconfigured over 130 new systems sustaining command and control capabilities.  • Ensured support of over 70 aircraft systems supporting over a 10 billion dollar network.  • Supported managing over network capabilities for an 8 billion dollar aircraft fleet.  • Helped ensure compliance with DoD regulations for network, and computer security base wide.  • Managed and Supervised a base wide setup of physical access points and computer systems to new facilities and minimalized downtime on critical systems. System Administrator 179th Airlift Wing Comm Augmentee Flight June 2015 to June 2016 Purpose: The Client systems team for the 179th Communications Flight was responsible for maintaining base wide system readiness by ensuring all system images are current and the network posture was secured as well as ensuring vulnerabilites are identified and resolved.    Responsibilities:  • Developed and implemented new training network security procedures.  • Worked with management to update security manuals and address current concerns.  • Updated security software to prevent database security threats.  • Prepared daily weekly and monthly database security and posture reports.  • Developed process improvements and other enhancements that improve operational efficiency as well as ensure data security  • Ensured data/media recoverablitiy by implementing a schedule of system backups and database archive operations  • Implemented a network and physical asset inventory and recovery plan for base wide systems to help update system and security posture by tech refreshing old systems  • Helped senior management create and update a voip tracking system to create a map of base wide voip systems to aid system troubleshooting and asset management Education Associates of Applied Science in Information System Technology in ECD Community College of the Air Force June 2020 Bachelor's of Science in Computer in ECD North Central State College January 2020 Client Systems Augmentee Technical School August 2019