Lead Senior Systems Engineer Lead Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Lead Senior Systems Engineer - Octo Consulting Group Odenton, MD Work Experience Lead Senior Systems Engineer Octo Consulting Group May 2018 to Present • Maintain status as the primary POC for all IT related tasks.  • Spearhead initiatives that involve integration of new systems and platforms in the AHRS  environment.  • Communicate with high-end VIP executives on a daily basis.  • Interview, Train, and Mentor new IT personnel via leading by example.  • Provide system engineering and technical support for the Army.  • Setup mobile devices (iPhone 6s, iPad Air 2, and others)  • Perform PKI Key Recovery methods to re-establish user certificates.  • Manage, monitor, and engineer systems & servers within the McAfee HBSS/AESS  infrastructure.  • Upgraded all Army and Marine Corp servers that communicate with AESS to the latest  ENS upgrade via the Arcyber Safe Upgrade Path  • Spearhead the technical support for new organizations entering the AHRS (IPPS-A)  Department.  • Designated Tech & Technical Information Management Officer (IMO) for all permissions  and documentation related to the AHRS shared network drives.  • Create Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for technical processes within the current  AHRS environment.  • Help rebuild upgraded and new servers w/ the installations of the latest software  modules necessary for full functionality.  • Work with Security Engineers to ensure that all systems are maintaining proper  compliance levels.  • Create floor plans and charts via Microsoft Project and Visio to lay out technical  architecture and seating arrangements.  • Obtain broad knowledge of Ft. Belvoir NEC.  • Attend high end meetings with high end Engineers and provide engineering consultation  and recommendations.    INCLUDING DUTIES/RESPONSIBILITIES LISTED AS SENIOR SYSTEMS ENGINEER    Senior Systems Engineer  • Provide system engineering and technical support for the Army  • Setup mobile devices (iPhone 6s, iPad Air 2, and others)  • Setup of Video Teleconference (VTC) equipment  • Creating personal conference bridges  • Windows 10 imaging (via PXE boot)  • Setup and configuration of printer devices  • Compiling slides into a main PowerPoint presentation  • Conduct presentations during staff call meetings  • Assist new hires in the New User Processing documentation  • Setup and configure numerous software  • Manage, monitor, and engineer systems within the AESS/HBSS/SCCM infrastructure  • Provide Windows 10 support to a total of 4 groups within the Army Human Resource  System sector of DISA. Server Engineer/ Administrator Acuity, Inc October 2017 to May 2018 • Complete server patches and updates  • Provide Troubleshooting and Support via BMC Remedy Ticketing System  • Use iPost to monitor scores and statuses on the production environment.  • Utilize VMWare 6.0 to access and monitor servers within our Production and Test  environments.  • Troubleshoot/Administer Windows 10 operating system for problems pertaining to users.  • Analyze log files and scripts during troubleshooting processes.  • Perform system reboots and shut downs during maintenance windows.  • Utilize Active Directory for troubleshooting and administration tasks.  • Install latest Microsoft Service Packs for PROD & Test environments.  • Implement LAPS for Production environment  • Implement Backups and Snapshots for Remedy PROD & Test servers.  • Upgrade VMware Tools for remote servers via vSphere 6.0.  • Create documentation/work instructions for maintenance window processes.  • Create documentation/work instructions for the modification of passwords on active  service accounts. Systems Engineer (Tier III) Intercom Federal Systems, Inc November 2015 to October 2017 • Provide Tier 3 troubleshooting and support via BMC Remedy ticketing system.  • Initiated (and maintained) the troubleshooting, testing, and configuration for Windows  10 operating system in the Department of State environment.  • Experience working with various teams to resolve problems and potential issues within Production environment.  • Familiarity with isolated lab environment for testing purposes.  • Familiarity with isolated lab environments used to mirror Production environments  • Experience with analyzing and troubleshooting Local Level and Domain Level GPOs and registry settings.  • Hardening and configuring Windows Operating Systems and computer applications  based on DoS Security Standard settings.  • Reviewing test cases, results, and vendor specific documentation for the testing and approval process.  • Edit and Submit Project Plans, Test Plans, Evaluation Reports, Reviewers Checklists, VPAT for government approval process.  • Edit and Modify Operating System Release Notes for OS upgrade preparation  • Create and execute test cases for OS testing.  • Familiarity utilizing VMWare in lab environment to provide a more robust testing  environment.  • Completed the testing, configuration, and documentation for numerous projects.  • Submit team Weekly Achievement Reports (WAR reports) to senior level government  management.  • Successfully document and define Systems Engineering processes for COTS/GOTS  software. Tools Engineer (Tier II) Intercom Federal Systems, Inc October 2014 to August 2015 • Primary Engineer for adding, modifying, and configuring user accounts and devices to HP Network Administration, TACACS+, and Radius.  • Primary Engineer for troubleshooting RSA Token Fob accounts.  • Primary Engineer for monitoring risk scores of numerous servers via iPost database.  • Primary Engineer for providing switch access to multiple users and groups.  • Primary Engineer for providing network and device access for users.  • Troubleshooting devices within admin databases.  • Research, gain knowledge, and apply access policies and policy elements regarding ACS user accounts/devices. Systems Engineer Epsilon, Inc March 2014 to August 2014 • Researching multiple technologies (Virtualization, NetBackup, Archiving)  • Communicate with multiple third party archiving vendors  • Created spreadsheets and DARs (Decision Analysis and Resolution)  • Created work instructions and setup documents  • Testing multiple software  • Application packaging via InstallShield  • Research Archiving Solutions for Exchange Project  • Windows Server 2008 R2 experience  o Role Service installations via Server Manager  o Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager  * Application Pool configurations and Installations  * Site configuration  • Web Service installations and configurations on servers  • Expert understanding with Microsoft Suite  • Used tools such as verbose logging, Windows Registry, and Active Directory Desktop Support Engineer TEKSystems, Inc October 2012 to February 2014 • Monitored health and status of IP services and supporting subsystems.  • Opened trouble tickets and monitored, managed, and updated tickets.  • Recognized service and subsystem failures.  • Interacted with 3rd party partners to resolve issues.  • Monitored maintenance impact to streaming platforms.  • Properly identified alert/alarm, and initiated appropriate troubleshooting.  • Opened conference bridges for triage and further investigation if needed.  • Sent email notification in accordance with distribution list for major/minor issues.  • Gathered multiple sets of data to complete numerous documents and spreadsheets.  • Create/Update/Modify Incident Tickets  • Resolve Technical Issues at multiple user locations  • Serviced over 1,000 users  • Software and Hardware Setups and Installations (Visio, Project, Adobe Acrobat, etc )  • Extensive Active Directory experience (Windows XP)  • Extensive ARS experience (Windows 7)  • Extensive SCCM experience  • Trained New Hire to succeed in MedImmune work environment  • Image/Re-Image countless PCs.  • Deploy PCs to users (On-site users and Field users).  • Microsoft Lync camera set-ups  • Configured Office phone set-ups  • Managed on-site walk-up incidents  • Completed multiple USMT Data Restoration processes.  • Managed many Bit Locker keys  • Configured many local and network printer drivers.  • Configured SAP Scanners Education BS in Computer Science Winston-Salem State University - Winston-Salem, NC May 2012 Links http://linkedin.com/in/michael-anthony-ii-61350259