Substitute Teacher Substitute Teacher Isleton, CA Work Experience Substitute Teacher Jim Elliot Christian High School - Lodi, CA April 2019 to Present Substitute Teacher Brookside Christian High School - Stockton, CA April 2019 to Present Systems Administrator Rechurch - Rio Vista, CA August 2013 to November 2018 Experienced web researcher  ? Advanced computer skills including designing documents and presentations  ? During my stay I was the lead admin of two databases created from the ground up and  implemented systems on gathering information for those databases  ? Assembled, designed, and managed three wordpress websites with google analytics  tracking  ? Created an automatic process where one audio file upload simultaneously put that file in  our podcast feed and website database  ? Was the head admin of people management systems such as Church Community Builder  and Planning Center - trained staff/volunteers to use and make their work more efficient  ? Admin of our online giving system Stripe, email system Mailchimp, and texting system  Textinchurch  ? Proficient in graphic design, podcasting, presentation software, and video editing Substitute Teacher River Delta Unified School District - Rio Vista, CA March 2017 to April 2017 * Started substitute teaching in grades 6-12 Education B.A. in Ministerial Studies Epic Bible College - Sacramento, CA September 2017 Skills Photoshop (4 years), Mac OS X (4 years), Mircrosoft Offlice (5 years), Wordpress (4 years), Website Design (4 years), Teaching Additional Information ? Driven and motivated recent college graduate with career aspiration in education  ? Strengths in teamwork, customer service, problem solving and working with others  ? Technical skills in website building and management  ? Administrator skills in database management and management systems  ? Proficient in Microsoft Office, Pages, Numbers, and Keynote  ? Detail oriented with quick ability to learn and adapt to new technologies    TECHNICAL SKILLS  * Admin of management systems  * Skills in website design and management with wordpress  * Adobe Photoshop  * Microsoft Office and pages, numbers, and keynote  * Proficient in PC and Mac Interface