Information Security Engineer Information Security Engineer Information Security Engineer - CITY AND COUNTY OF DENVER Denver, CO Efficient, determined technology enthusiast performing across multiple, large scale multi-generational technologies. 15 years of Information Technology experience, with strong strategic and hands-on knowledge in higher ed and retail business sectors. A proven track record of providing support for key business technologies and structures: including infrastructure and application monitoring, analytics, enterprise architecture, internal and third-party vendor service desk management, product procurement and implementation, cloud administration,  and operational security. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Security Engineer CITY AND COUNTY OF DENVER - Denver, CO January 2016 to Present Information Security Engineer within the Security Operations Center for Technology Services. Primarily serving as a Project/Implementation Manager for the SOC; my  daily duties include driving new software and cloud service provider implementation -- via architecting and designing how it will be rolled out across the City and County of Denver on small and large scales. Other regular duties include scheduling and providing updates to leadership, SCRUM and risk mitigation, data analytics,  mediation between teams and agencies to understand timelines and technical/business requirements, as well as management/ "blue team" investigation into security  incidents. For more details, please see the project list. Consultant - NOC - SolarWinds Administrator Innovar Group - Denver, CO April 2015 to January 2016 Consultant with Innovar Group, principal for City and County of Denver contract. Primarily provided System Admin support for the Solar Winds suite within the Network  Operations Center (NOC) at City and County of Denver. Daily tasks included setting up and modifying existing monitoring for the 2500+ servers/VM's, and 300+  applications actively in use for various agencies. Weekly tasks included metrics and analytics of usage/network incidents. provided to senior leadership and support  teams in a weekly, monthly, and annual report. IT Systems Administrator A SUBSIDIARY OF DAVITA, INC - Denver, CO August 2013 to April 2015 As the IT Systems Administrator for Paladina Health, I was responsible for designing, building, monitoring, and maintaining several business crucial and high-impact  systems that all teammates relied on. I worked alongside other IT Support staff to ensure that these systems, polices, and processes are current and updated on regular basis; meeting continually fluctuating business requirements, as the overall environment of systems and end-users grew exponentially, as well as remotely  managed a team of support staff in Dallas, TX. System Administrator COLDWATER SOFTWARE - Greenwood Village, CO November 2012 to July 2013 Primarily responsible for internal IT and employee technical support needs. Tasks included on-boarding/off-boarding employees, maintaining and troubleshooting  network, hardware and software installations, website maintenance and high uptime on sites and services. Responsible for addressing and resolving all help desk  issues reported by clients and internal employees via Zendesk, as well as managing a remote team of service desk employees in Perth, WA (Australia). Education Bachelor of Fine Art in Painting University of Colorado Denver - Denver, CO August 2006 to May 2010 Finger Lakes Community College August 2003 to May 2005 Associates Degree in Graphic Design ISC 2005 Skills Security, Nagios, Solarwinds, Adfs, Nessus, Cissp, Information Security, Cyber Security, Siem Certifications/Licenses CISSP October 2017 to Present