Network Administrator Network <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - First State Bank Hillsboro, OH To obtain a position directly working with employees and clients to make sure they have a pleasant and rewarding experience. My goal is to strive to be the best employee I can be. I want to help improve the company with my strong work ethic and dedication to the responsibilities given to me. Work Experience Network Administrator First State Bank - Winchester, OH October 2018 to Present In this position, I got to manage many different key networking components including managing the local area networks (LANs) and wide-area networks (WANs), phone systems, network security, and firewalls the bank uses on a daily basis. During my time at the bank, I managed a large scale business class phone cutover project that moved the branches to fibe SIP lines. I also helped to create many of the backup systems the bank uses to secure their data, including the creation of an air gap backup servers used to create a physical layer of protection for customer information. I also played a key role in creating many of the policies and procedures that the bank uses in regards to network security, backup processes, and computer usage. I also helped with many of the help desk tasks whenever it was possible. Information Systems Technician Highland District Hospital - Hillsboro, OH January 2017 to October 2018 In this position, I get to manage servers, CISCO routers and switches, antivirus software such as McAfee, and many different types of information systems and applications. I also provided help desk support by troubleshooting software issue and repairing hardware including desktops, laptops, tablets, lab equipment, signature pads, etc. During the construction of the new emergency department in 2017, I helped set up the network and run cables. I was the primary manager of our print server, and I helped implement and manage the Xerox PrintSafe system they use to prevent data loss and HIPA violations. I was also responsible for setting up new employee profiles within Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange, CPSI, and EPower. Help Desk Technician Chillicothe High school - Chillicothe, OH August 2016 to January 2017 In this position, I got to hone my technical skills by working hands-on with different types of hardware and software including Chrome OS and MAC OS as well as working with and learning about different parts of a network Infrastructure. I not only got to do pc troubleshooting and repair, but I also got to help configure and manage the schools CISCO routers and switches Administrative Assistant for the CIO Southern State Community College - Hillsboro, OH September 2015 to August 2016 In this position, I got to work hand in hand with the Chief Information Officer of Southern State Community College. I worked on many research projects involving new technology and ways to implement it at the college. I developed a new process for students to complete surveys using an online platform within Microsoft Office 360 using a complex excel template that I created myself, and it is still being utilized by SSCC today. Education Associates of Science and Information Technology in Science and Information Technology Southern State Community College - Hillsboro, OH Hillsboro High School Skills Active directory, Cisco, Exchange, Linux, Microsoft exchange, Networking, Windows 7, Technical Support, Windows, Customer Service, Vmware, Security, Microsoft Office, access, MAC Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Skills  • Communication  • Customer Service  • Microsoft Office Suite  • CPSI  • EPower  • Microsoft Server  • CISCO  • Linux OS  • Active Directory  • Microsoft Exchange  • Print Safe  • Chrome OS  • Barracuda Network an Backup Systems  • Jack Henry Banking software  • Other various programs