Windows Server Administrator Windows Server <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Windows Server Administrator Detroit, MI • Mr. Earl Williams is a Systems Administrator with 10+ years of experience in providing IT support, troubleshooting, configuration and disaster recovery.  • Responsible for both physical / virtual, service / application availability, server troubleshooting, scheduling vendor access, and hand-off for offshore support.  • Performed end user support for Windows Server 2012, Windows 2008 R2 and systems migration from Server 2003.  • Supported Active Directory, MAC, management and development, site replication, OU Organization and Group Policy deployment.  • Administered 5000+ Physical and Virtual (VMWare ESX and Citrix) Windows Servers.  • Ensured Operations 24/7/365 using Service Now Ticketing System. Work Experience Windows Server Administrator Net2Source - Auburn Hills, MI April 2018 to November 2018 • Administer 5000+ Physical and Virtual (VMWare ESX and Citrix) Windows Servers.  • Ensure Operations 24/7/365 using Service Now Ticketing System.  • Guide business entities into tomorrow's server technologies using cloud technologies AWS and Azure cloud.  • Daily responsibilities included ensuring server health, physical and virtual, providing daily metrics reports, service and application availability, vendor scheduling for repairs, part of transition team for offshore support. Windows Server Administrator Modis - Dearborn, MI October 2017 to April 2018 Contracted through Modis   • Administer 7000+ Physical and Virtual (VMWare ESX and Citrix) Windows Servers supporting Ford Motor global operations.  • Implement DevOps Engineering using Chef and PowerShell.  • Ensure Operations 24/7/365 using Remedy Ticketing System.  • Guide business entities into tomorrow's server technologies.  • Daily responsibilities included ensuring server health, both physical and virtual, service and application availability, server troubleshooting, scheduling vendor access, handoff for offshore support. Systems Administrator Credit Union One, MI October 2015 to September 2017 • Systems configuration, deployment, monitoring and reporting.  • Creating physical and virtual machines, Window and Linux.  • Setup for the proper services, patching, creating service accounts, more.  • Daily maintenance and administration of Virtual and Physical machines; Hyper-V and VMWare.  • Successful configuration of disaster recovery site. Replicating SAN, Database, and servers across WAN.  • Supporting Active Directory, MAC, management and development, site replication, OU Organization and Group Policy deployment.  • Windows Server 2012, Windows 2008 R2 End User support and systems migration from Server 2003.  • SCCM patching and software deployment • Installation and configuration of SQL Server; backup and restore SQL databases; Configuration of IIS (HTTPS, URL Rewrite, IP Restrictions and more.  • Performance Tuning and other daily duties.  • Setup and configuration of ADFS Single Sign-On.  • Part of the Exchange onsite to Office 365 migration team at its inception.  • Provide reporting to upper management and change process to peers.  • Ensure Service Availability for SQL, Exchange, Windows, LAN/WAN, more.  • Daily responsibilities included ensuring server health, physical and virtual, providing daily/weekly/monthly metrics reports, service and application availability, vendor scheduling and disaster recovery site build maintenance and testing. Systems Administrator Venteon Technical LLC October 2014 to September 2015 • Administered ShoreTel VoIP Phone Systems, MPLS, SIP and Firewall.  • Implemented redundant networks as part of a business continuity plan.  • Maintained servers and devices - local and cloud based.  • Implemented virtualization reducing server sprawl. Installation and configuration of SQL Server; backup and restore SQL databases; Configuration of IIS (HTTPS, URL Rewrite, IP Restrictions and more.  • Managed performance, SLA, availability, more.    National Technology Management, MI Tier 2 Engineer NATIONAL TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT - Southfield, MI November 2013 to August 2014 • Support external client network Operations server administration Windows Server 2012, Windows 2008 R2 /VMWare.  • Desktop support for Microsoft Office, printers, networking, imaging, VOIP: Allworx, NEC and others).  • Installation and configuration of SQL Server; backup and restore SQL databases; Configuration of IIS (HTTPS, URL Rewrite, IP Restrictions and more.  • Responsible for user account creation and management, imaging of workstations, security access badges, VPN access, firewall configuration, spam monitoring, more.  • Daily responsibilities included ensuring server health, physical and virtual, troubleshooting client systems desktops, servers, telephony, and networking equipment, service and application availability. IT Specialist Randall S Miller & Associates June 2013 to September 2013 • Supported network operations, server administration Windows Server 2012, Windows 2008 R2 / VMWare environment.  • End user support for Microsoft Office, printers, networking, imaging, VOIP, more. MAC, imaging, security access badges, VPN access, firewall configuration, spam monitoring, more. Systems Support Specialist Primus Electric, AZ April 2012 to June 2013 • Support network operations using many tools including Microsoft Systems Center Server - server administration Windows 2008.  • Supported business's marketing and operations.  • Setup and management of user accounts, company's website management, content, telecommuting, security and updates. Associate Systems Administrator Zenex Partners - Chandler, AZ June 2012 to September 2012 Contracted through Zenex Partners   • Supported global NOC with server administration Windows/UNIX environment.  • Performed backups, created and ran scripts to administer running and stopped services and processes. Technical Support Specialist Arizona Blue Stake, Inc - Blue, AZ January 2011 to August 2011 • MAC maintained SLA, virtualization, end user support, SOX compliancy, multi-vendor mobile support.  • Daily responsibilities included ensuring server health, physical and virtual, configuration of disaster recovery systems, primary systems were servers, desktops and telephony/fax equipment. Education Associate's Degree in Computer Information Systems Davenport University Skills Active Directory (5 years), Exchange (2 years), Hyper-V (5 years), SQL (3 years), VMWare (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • Active Directory  • Citrix  • Hyper-V  • LAN/WAN    • Linux  • MS Exchange  • MS Windows  • Remedy  • SAN    • SQL  • SCCM  • VMWare  • VoIP  • VPN