Senior Systems Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Senior Systems Engineer - Micro Consultations Cumming, GA To work with an organization where one can continuously learn in the pursuit of achieving functional excellence, thus getting maximum job satisfaction and optimum career growth. Work Experience Senior Systems Engineer Micro Consultations - Alpharetta, GA August 2017 to Present • Adhere to all information technology and security policies, maintaining a focus on data security  • Manage and monitor information systems and infrastructure  • Install, configure, test and maintain operating systems, applications, networks and system management tools.  • Proactively ensure the highest levels of systems and infrastructure availability  • Write and maintain custom scripts to increase system efficiency and reduce touch labor  • Participate in the design of information and operational support systems  • Maintain security, backup and redundancy strategies  • Liaise with vendors and other IT personnel for problem resolution  • Platforms: Windows 7, Windows 8.1, Windows 10, Mac, Windows Server 2003, Windows Server 2008 R2, Windows Server 2012, VMware Systems Engineer Onepath Systems - Atlanta, GA September 2016 to August 2017 • Assist clients with the installation, configuration and ongoing usability of desktop computers, peripheral equipment and software.  • Physical setting up of computers and software system installation for various computer applications and programs  • Install software, patches, updates on desktops, and laptops  • Troubleshoot network, software, and printing problems  • Install and/or upgrade Microsoft Operating Systems  • Perform virus detection and removal  • Review quarterly preventative maintenance assessments on client servers using Onepath standards and processes  • Adherence to Onepath processes and standards  • Network switch and server room cable management  • Platforms: Windows 7, Windows 8.1, Windows 10, Mac, Windows Server 2003, Windows Server 2008 R2, Windows Server 2012, VMware IT Business Analyst Robert Half International February 2016 to August 2016 • Installing and troubleshooting applications on tablets (Surface Pro3, Dell Latitude 7350 Tablet, Dell Venue Tablet).  • Training new deployment technicians on site.  • Imaging new tablets in SCCM and testing of functionality.  • Troubleshooting Direct Access (VPN) and installation of Direct Access certificates.  • Working with Bitlocker encryption to maintain confidentiality, integrity of data and SOX compliance.  • Building windows 8.1 distribution points and building connections with Amazon web services in live sever environment.  • Working with Druva server to backup and restore user data as need.  • Traveling across North America on a weekly basis for new deployments.  • Providing document summarizations of work assignments including client sign off, punch lists and resolutions  • Platforms: Windows 7, Windows 8.1 Support Analyst MCIC Vermont LLC - Atlanta, GA September 2014 to December 2015 • Liaison between our customers, software developers, network engineers, application analysts and vendors to make sure customer computer system needs are met.  • Review appropriate logs and activity to identify common issues and negative trends across the population of assigned programs.  • Make recommendations on developing innovative and cost-effective solutions to customer problems.  • Identify opportunities for process and procedure enhancements to drive efficiency and customer service levels.  • Platforms: Windows 7, Windows Server 2008 R2 System Administrator Fidelity Information Services - Atlanta, GA September 2013 to September 2014 • Responsible for implementation, configuration, coordination, control, maintenance, troubleshooting, security, usage monitoring and the development of specialized system procedures within multiple locations.  • Conducted ongoing security risk assessments including the monitoring, investigation and reporting of security and access violations  • Installed and maintained network servers, operating systems, and other network equipment.  • Researched, tested, and evaluated vendor hardware and software products  Platforms: Windows XP, Windows 7, Windows Server 2008 R2 Education B.S. in Computer Information Systems Newman University - Jefferson City, TN 2013 Skills Excel, Microsoft excel, Lotus notes, Outlook, Photoshop, Visio, Microsoft visio, Microsoft project, Active directory, Vmware, Html, Python, Visual basic, Xml, Css, Dreamweaver, Sharepoint, Web design, Microsoft access, Mysql Additional Information Skills  • Team Lead for Business Capstone.  • Web Design: WordPress, HTML, XHTML, CSS, jQuery Mobile, and XML  • Programming: Visual Basic and Python  • Other Related Skills: Microsoft Access, Microsoft Visio, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Project, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver, Notepad ++, VMWare, MySQL, SharePoint, Active Directory, Lotus Notes, Outlook.