Infrastructure/ Systems Administrator Infrastructure/<span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Operations Manager Norman, OK • Extraordinary Integrity and Trustworthiness.  • Exceptional skills working with computers, including but not limited to; Windows 7, Windows 10, Windows Server 2012 R2, and 2016, SCCM, Active Directory, Command Line, VBS, Excel Macros, Web Designing, IIS 6.0+, Virtual Desktop, VMware, App Volume Manager, data backup solutions.  • Proficient in Microsoft Office, and using email services.   • Software troubleshooting, and hardware troubleshooting, internet protocol address management, port forwarding.  • Talent acquisition, onboarding/discharging, and payroll management  • Excellent teacher/trainer; patient and effective when working with a diverse range of personalities.   • Effectively managed multiple persons to achieve a common goal.  • Self-motivated, determined individual with eagerness to learn and adapt to surroundings.  • Detail oriented, analytical, and organized.  • Remarkable skills with power tools, hand tools, and heavy machinery; including many kinds of forklifts, ladders, and scissor lifts. Work Experience Infrastructure/ Systems Administrator CACI International Inc - Oklahoma City, OK October 2018 to Present UPDATE Manager Network Services AT&T - Houston, TX November 2015 to July 2018 Supervisor: Ralph Niko/Marcus Rios    • Manage overtime and time-card accuracy for all members of my team.  • Proficient at maintaining a financially effective team.  • Work with other departments to solve problems and come up with solutions proactively  • Motivate and empower my team of 15 direct reports to work more effectively.  • Ensure customer expectations are exceeded.  • Provide management assistance to other teams in an office of 100+ reports.  • Make tough, but necessary decisions impacting both the company and employees.  • Responsible for talent acquisition and employee dismissal.  • 24x7 On-Call availability to support the team and mission.  • Support and maintain technical training and qualifications of the team.  • Train new employees on proper safety and policy.  • Ensuring compliance with health and safety regulations.  • Evaluate and address customer queries and complaints.  • Effective trending analysis and mentorship of my team's performance.  • Contribute to team effort by accomplishing related results as needed.  • Specialize in quality assurance verifications of teams work to ensure quality and standards are met. DirecTV Technician DirecTV/ATT - Amarillo, TX June 2013 to November 2015 •      Installed satellite TV systems in a wide range of homes and businesses, while exceeding the customer’s expectations in a professional, efficient, and timely manner.  •      Remediated all issues customers experienced; including problems with satellite TV services and/or inadequate service performed by previous technicians.  •      Effectively managed my time to assist other technicians’ issues with completing my own work in a professional and timely fashion; while always keeping the customers experience in mind at all times.  •      Skilled at working in small, cramped spaces with safety in mind and caution being exercised at all times.  •      Experience with using power tools to efficiently drill holes in precise location so that structural integrity is not compromised.  •      Proficient at utilizing navigation skills to safely maneuver through hazardous roadway conditions to reach multiple locations within a scheduled timeframe.  •      Technical expert on the operations and functions of all aspects within the satellite TV system.  •      Specialize in proficiently training customers on how to operate their satellite TV system. Pipefitter Foreman MMM Plumbing/Sentry Fire Protection - Amarillo, TX July 2010 to February 2013 •      Operated many types of machinery and tools required to complete the job.  •      Managed employees to ensure the job was completed on schedule, while staying within budget and assuring quality met expectations.  •      Attended foreman meetings with superintendent of jobsite to coordinate with other trades on site to achieve a similar goal beneficial to all entities.  •      Trained new employees on safety measures adapted from OSHA and proper job related skills.   •      Managed time cards for all employees that reported to me while under my supervision.  •      Always ensuring safety procedures are being followed properly by all persons around myself and my subordinates.  •      On-call at all hours for emergency calls involving fire protection for commercial and residential. Education High school or equivalent Skills Wlan, Cooking (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Customer Service (10+ years), Management (5 years), Time Keeping (5 years), Supervisor (5 years), Information Technology (10+ years), Inventory Management (8 years), Windows 10 (3 years), Windows 8 (6 years), Windows 7 (8 years), Analytics (5 years), Team Building (7 years), Team Management (5 years), Teamwork (10+ years), Team Leader (7 years), Power Tools (10+ years), Heavy Machinery (10+ years), Talent Acquisition (5 years), Quality Assurance (7 years), Software Troubleshooting (5 years), Hardware Troubleshooting (5 years), Hardware (5 years) Awards Service Excellence Award 2017-06 Going above and beyond for customers and exceeding their expectations. Additional Information I am a highly self driven and honest manager. I pride myself in my work, and base that off of how well I have developed my team while maintaining maximum business effectiveness. I hold my employees accountable for their actions while delivering servant leadership to each one and crediting them for their accomplishments. I always use smart business choices when confronted with an issue, and strive to make my company succeed in every opportunity available.    If you hire me, you will not just be hiring a new manager, you will be hiring a dependable, hard working, honest employee that will keep the business objectives on the front line, while delivering exceptional customer service to my team, and our customers.