Senior Systems Engineer, Consultant, & IT Manager Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer, Consultant, &amp; IT Manager Senior Systems Engineer, Consultant, & IT Manager - TechSoft Systems Cincinnati, OH Work Experience Senior Systems Engineer, Consultant, & IT Manager TechSoft Systems 2015 to Present Tier 3 Escalation and team leader for a team of 5-6 tier 1-2 systems  engineers.  ? Ensured excellent service delivery and implemented new systems and standards to ensure service quality and customer uptime  ? Designed and implemented ground-up and improvement programs for enhancing network capabilities for clients and TechSoft Systems  ? Worked closely with CEO and senior management (internally and clients) to ensure all client needs were met  ? Implemented new systems including advanced Backup & Disaster  Recovery, Office 365 Migration program, Field Service Engineer NextStep Networking 2014 to 2015 Primary Level 3 Engineer for top 3 largest accounts (approx. 300 Windows  workstations, 25 Windows servers, 4 Linux Servers (RHEL, CentOS),  ? Only Apple Certified engineer, several clients are mixed Win/Mac  environments  ? Go-To person for assistance with difficult issue because of intricate  knowledge of operating systems, networking, and protocols Network/ Systems Administrator Forward Edge - Cincinnati, OH 2012 to 2014 Forward Edge, contracted to St. Bernard-Elmwood Place City  School District  ? Managed fleet of approximately 650 Mac workstations and 15 Mac, Windows, Ubuntu, and CentOS Linux servers  ? Integrated Mac, Linux, and Windows systems into homogenous network  ? Used DeployStudio, Munki, and MCX/Profiles to enhance user productivity  and reduce helpdesk calls and tickets by approximately 50% VFP Intern FaST 2011 to 2012 Pacific Northwest National Laboratory/US Department of Energy  ? Performed systems administration of Linux (SuSE and RHEL) and Windows  Server 2008 R2 based High Performance Computer Systems  ? Assisted mentor with bringing on-line the Olympus Supercomputer, rated  179 on TOP500 list at initial speed test. Education Associates of Applied Business in Computer & Networking Clark State Community College - Springfield, OH 2009 to 2012 Additional Information Intricate knowledge of Windows Hyper-V and VMware vSphere virtualization  technologies.    Intrinsic ability to understand how systems operate and coalesce to form operational  networks    Ability to communicate effectively to co-workers and end-users of all knowledge  levels.