OPERATIONS SPECIALIST OPERATIONS SPECIALIST OPERATIONS SPECIALIST - At Park State Bank & Trust Woodland Park, CO Work Experience OPERATIONS SPECIALIST Park State Bank & Trust - Woodland Park, CO January 2019 to Present I am responsible for all vendor relations, first line support for all information technology systems, and building maintenance. I also maintain and am responsible for all automated teller machines, and interface with primary vendors on both physical security and cybersecurity. Additionally, I am responsible for mitigating any unexpected issues for our management team, to better empower  our team to do their jobs. OPERATIONS MANAGER & SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Peak Internet - Woodland Park, CO December 2015 to January 2019 At Peak Internet, I oversaw field technicians, fiber-optic construction teams, tech  support staff, and sales representatives to create a unified organization and customer experience. I was responsible for a broad range of tasks, including Systems  Administration, Information Technology support, tier three Internet Service support, scheduling, customer relations, and special projects. I frequently served as the lead  on special projects focusing on anything from new network construction to enterprise sales, including the RFP process. I was directly involved with the planning,  permitting, and construction process for over 35 miles of FTTP, and the erection of over 24 wireless tower sites, which utlized both LTE, and unlicensed 5GHz and 2GHz  radios. In addition, I gained experience in project management, municipality and homeowner relations, RF planning, and FCC licensing. MANAGER & LEAD TECHNICIAN The PC Shop - Woodland Park, CO March 2013 to December 2015 At The PC Shop I was ultimately responsible for any device or service that clients  needed repaired or serviced. I specialized in Mac repair, mobile device and cell  phone repair, and laptop computer repair. I often worked onsite or remotely, for clients ranging from private individuals to local small businesses. I also learned to  build and maintain my own computers, and construct and maintain small business  networks. MANAGER BierWerks Brewery - Woodland Park, CO November 2009 to March 2013 At BierWerks I was responsible for various components of the business; from day-to- day management, to online presence and event organization. I oversaw a staff of up to ten, and focused on customer experience and operations. Three years in a row I  organized the Winter Bier Fest, an event which attracted well over a dozen  microbreweries from across Colorado. Education High school or equivalent Woodland Park - Woodland Park, CO August 2010 to May 2014 Skills Operation, Customer Service Certifications/Licenses MikroTik MTCNA June 2016 to June 2019 The MikroTik Certified Network Associate (MTCNA) course was designed to make students familiar with RouterOS software and RouterBoard products. After successfully completing the course, students will be able to configure, manage, troubleshoot a MikroTik router and provide basic services to clients. Additional Information TRAINING & CERTIFICATIONS    • Butch Evans Consulting MikroTik training  • Greg Sowell Consulting MikroTik training  • Vendor Specific Training:  o Nokiasmallcelltraining   o ExteNetEPCCoretraining   o BaiCellsLTETraining