Sr.VMWare Systems Engineer Sr.VMWare <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Sr.VMWare Systems Engineer - Hitachi Data Systems Santa Clara, CA • Over 8 Years of experience in implementing and Managing enterprise scale VMware VDI Infrastructure.  • IT System Administrator skilled in multiplatform VMware, Linux, Windows environments with hands-on expertise in networking and system integration.  • Expertise in administration of VMwareWorkstation, ESX/ESXi Servers, VMwarevSphere and Windows Servers 2008/ 2008R2 / 2012/ 2012R2 and managing Microsoft SQL Server  • Installation, Configuration, Administration Virtual Center Server, VMwareView, Disaster Recovery, VMotion, P2V, P2P, V2V, VMwareUpdate Manager.  • Administration of Active Directory in Windows environment. Managing Active Directory issues such as: Logon Failures, Account Lockouts, Group Policies, Network Connectivity, DNS and WINS Name Resolution, Authentication Problems, File and Printer Permissions etc.  • Expertise in Extraction, Transformation & Loading of Data using Shell Scripting, SQL & DB2  • Experience in Configuring Networking on Standard vSwitch, Distributed vSwitch.  • Experience in configuring VMware DRS Rules and VMwareHA on Clusters in Virtual Center.  • Capable of administering ISCSI, NAS and NFS storages. Familiar with RAID concept.  • Expert in maintaining Business Continuity and performing Disaster Recovery (DR) using VMwareSite Recovery Manager (SRM).  • Created Raid Groups, Storage Groups, LUNs and assigned LUNs to Windows and VMware hosts.  • Experience with VDI (Virtual Desktop Infrastructure) VMware View in an enterprise environment.  • Installation, Configuration & Troubleshooting of hardware including Tower, Rack & Blade Servers.  • Responsible for LAN/WAN network communications, operations, hardware and application software for intensive segment of Rackspace's customers  • Ability to build scripts and automated solutions using shell scripting and Python.  • Good knowledge in automation technologies like Puppet, Chef, Ansible.  • Helped standardize and implement the scheduled maintenance plan documentation process.  • Experience on AWS cloud services in EC2  • Experience in setting up of Docker and creating new images and getting images from Docker Hub, worked on Docker images and containers for deploying applications.  • Experience with Hitachi & NetApp storage.  • Experience on working with Jenkins and its AD authentication.  • Ensured full and incremental data backups were successful; performed data restore for users as needed using HDID, HDPS.  • Good Knowledge on Ceph.  • Experience in configuring Brocade & Cisco Switches.  • Experience on Compute Blades & UCP solution. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr.VMWare Systems Engineer Hitachi Data Systems - Santa Clara, CA June 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Administration and management of Virtual infrastructure environment - monitor, analyze, identify and troubleshoot issues, upgrade of Virtual infrastructure products - VMware vSphere suite including VMware vCenter Server, VMwareESX/ESXi clusters, Virtual machines and templates; VMware Site Recovery manager for Disaster recovery of environment; physical to virtual migration (P2Vs); Microsoft hyper-v, Citrix virtual desktop support.  • Administrating production server's/network infrastructure that includes Windows Administration of Domain Controllers, File and print Servers, ADS, DNS, DHCP, and other Application Servers on Windows 2003/2008/2012.  • Installed and Implemented VMware ESXi host servers with vSphere Client, vSphere CLI. Configured HBAs and iSCSI SAN storage.  • Administration of Active Directory in Windows 2008/20012 environment and managing Active Directory issues such as: Logon Failures, Account Lockouts, Group Policies, Network Connectivity, Authentication Problems, File and Printer Permissions etc.  • Manage VMware Distributed Resource Scheduler (DRS), vMotion and High Availability (HA) Clusters.  • Creating and Deploying of Virtual Machines from Templates and creating Snapshots and Cloning of Virtual Machines for future Deployments.  • Installation and configuration of Microsoft Windows 2003, 2008 R2,2012 Servers on Virtual Machines and Citrix virtual desktop support.  • Install, configure and maintain the virtual environment utilizing VMware Horizon View  • Assisting in maintaining VDI master images and installing client applications  • Perform daily VDI administration, maintenance and upgrades including service packs, patches, hot fixes and security configurations.  • Responsible to analyze complex SQL queries and create stage tables in database to perform code execution.  • Manage OpenStack infrastructure upgrades, expansion, scaling, troubleshooting and debugging for number of clients on the most challenging, complex environments.  • Created and Configured Red Hat, Ubuntu, CentOS, Solaris Virtual Machines in AWS using EC2.  • VMs migration across the ESXI servers using advanced features like VMotion.  • Configured Cloud Watch and Nagios to monitor real-time granular metrics of all the AWS Services and configured individual dashboards for each resource Agents.  • Involved in Pair programming (Extreme Programming/XP), Estimation and Planning. Followed both Agile and Waterfall design models.  • Experience in Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, Group Policy, FTP environment, Virtual Server Administration, and Patch Management on Microsoft Windows Servers.  Environment:VMware VDI, VMwarevSphere, VMwarevCenter, HP blade/Rack servers, Cisco UCS, Cloning, Migration, Templates, Snapshot's, and Patch Management tool, VMwareHorizon, VMware Realize Operation Manager, VMware Site Recovery Manager (SRM), Hitachi Blade servers. VMWare Systems Engineer AG Technologies - Sunnyvale, CA January 2014 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Monitor, analyze, identify and troubleshoot issues, upgrade of Virtual infrastructure products - VMwarevSphere suite 5.0/4.0 including VMware vCenter Server, VMware ESX/ESXi clusters, Virtual machines and templates.  • Implementing Group Policy, Managing and Monitoring Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP).  • Managing and monitoring Domain Name System (DNS).  • Experience in configuring VMwareDRS Rules and VMwareHA on Clusters in Virtual Center.  • Experience in creating and monitoring Resource pool for Virtual Machines Resource.  • Extensively managed Active Directory like all the problems related to user accounts, domain accounts, managing permissions etc.  • Following the Agile process as requirements are evolving.  • Creating Virtual machines, Templates, Cloning and Deploying Virtual Machines.  • Provided infrastructure support.  • Worked on installing Chassis, Blade servers and configuring Blade servers.  • Handled hardware issues dealing with RAID, SCSI controllers & Host Bus Adapters (HBA).  • Responsible for Active directory, Domain users, Administrating users & groups & given appropriate permissions & privilege to access our LAN & Domain environment.  • Maintained Linux servers in production and development environments.  • Worked with Linux file system types and volume management.  • Modifying scripts to automate common tasks with PowerShell or Power CLI.  • Backup and restore of VMwarehost server configuration, Virtual Machine backup and snapshot.  • Performed Troubleshooting on Hosts, VMs, Windows servers and virtual Switches in the Datacenter.  • Performed P2V, V2V Migration, Created clones and templates of Virtual Machines.  • Perform on-call support for the IIS runtime issues, browser issues and user authentications issues in the production environment.  • Installing and Implementation of VMwareESXi 5.0 host servers with VM ware vSphere Client, vSphere CLI and also Configured HBAs and iSCSI SAN storage.  • Involved in operational support of Active Directory, WINS, DNS, DHCP enabled applications.  Environment: VMware vSphere 5.0, 5.5, VMware vCenter, HP blade/Rack servers, Cisco UCS, Cloning, Migration, Templates, Snapshot's, Patch Management tool, VMware Site Recovery Manager (SRM), VMware HA and DRS Linux Administrator Intelligroup - IN April 2010 to November 2013 Responsibilities:  • Experience in Installation, Configuration, Implementation, Maintenance & troubleshooting of Red Hat Linux.  • Experience using LVM creating VGs, LVs, and disk mirroring.  • Creating users, managing user permission, maintaining User & File system quota in Red hat Linux.  • Setting up cron schedules for backups and monitoring processes.  • Updating YUM Repository and Red hat Package Manager (RPM).  • Experience working on boot loaders like GRUB and LILO and also upgrading Kernel on Red hat Linux servers.  • Configure SSH server for password less login, secure ssh logins and restrict ssh logins to local network using iptables.  • Configured firewall using iptables for system security.  • Disk and File system management through Logical Volume Manager (LVM) on LINUX and experienced in RAID 1, 5, 10, configuration. Education Bachelor's Skills VMWARE, VIRTUALIZATION Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Virtualization Monitor, Analyze, Identify and Troubleshoot issues of Virtual infrastructure products - VMwarevSphere suite 6.0/ 5.0 including VMware vCenter Server, VMwareESX/ESXi servers.