Network Engineer II Network Engineer II Information Technology Eugene, OR Highly motivated and dedicated Information Technician seeking a position with a creative, technology-driven organization in an environment that encourages innovative thinking, recognition, and career development. Offering experience in a wide variety of networking, security, engineering, management and operating systems software. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer II KING TECHNOLOGIES INC - San Diego, CA November 2015 to February 2017 • Responsible for analyzing and troubleshooting network systems on board US Navy ships focusing on prompt repairs to improve the overall up-time of networks.  • Remotely provide technical support across the nation to resolve network issues.  • Interface with and direct US Navy customers in root-cause analysis and recommend network design changes, troubleshoot complex network issues, plan for corrective actions, and modify existing network configurations.  • Maintained shipboard network security through regular patching and upgrading Windows server encryption certificates and Department of Defense root certificates.  • Research, diagnose and resolve hardware and software issues using available information resources: (technical manuals, operating and administrator guides, fleet advisory messages, and knowledge base). Systems Administrator/Network Engineer CGI FEDERAL - San Diego, CA April 2015 to November 2015 • Setup and maintain system development network environments to include server, router, network and security appliances, and any other related equipment and services.  • Ensure effective software and hardware support for all users and acts as a resource for staff that have questions, concerns, or suggestions about any network or PC system.   • Performed VCSA and ESXi upgrades on a range of test environments both classified and unclassified.  • Support integration, system testing, system upgrades, accreditation, and deployment of software on multiple Windows system development environments.  • Experience administering enterprise storage systems including direct attached storage, SAN, and network attached storage systems.  • Solve collaboration, integration, and networking issues on systems under test.  • Applies Windows patches and upgrades on networks on a regular basis.  • Work independently and in team environments to provide support for network projects, requirements meetings and software testing events.  • Primary vendor contact for network architecture and works with vendors and manufacturers to diagnose, isolate, and correct information system problems. Network Engineer/Integration Test Engineer KING TECHNOLOGIES INC - San Diego, CA October 2013 to April 2015 • Responsible for 6 enclaves totaling 48 servers which involved rebuilding existing servers and configuring hardware, services, settings, directories, and storage in accordance with baseline documentation.  • Support developer integration, testing, and analysis of software designs on Naval systems in a Windows server environment.  • Managed the planning, design, and configuration of laboratory test environments for customers.  • Apply operating system updates, patches, and configuration changes in Microsoft environments.  • Managed virtualization environments using VMware ESXi 4.1-6 hosting Windows server 2008/12.  • Created and maintained standard operating procedures and technical documentation.  • Configured Cisco routers, Cisco/Alcatel switches, firewalls and Host Based Security System (HBSS).  • Attend project meetings and provide current and detailed information on status of network assets. Information Systems Technician UNITED STATES NAVY - San Diego, CA June 2007 to June 2012 • Managed two work centers totaling 8 Navy Information Systems Technicians in administering the operation of LAN/WAN related network services according to Government policies and procedures.  • Designed, documented and executed maintenance procedures, including system upgrades, patch management and system backups.   • Mentored and trained 6 junior personnel to qualification as LAN Administrators and Network Operations Watch Officers.  • Managed user accounts and groups on Windows 2003 Domain controller and granted permission to users for different applications.  • Created and maintained system backups using Varitas Backup Exec software.  • Maintained the network and servers, performing regular preventative maintenance as well as troubleshooting errors.  • Updating/Downloading of Latest Symantec Antivirus updates and patch management.  • Performed account maintenance in Active Directory: User account creation, user account deletion and password resets.  • Provided tech support to system users by resolving computer problems in person, via phone, remotely and over email. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Systems NATIONAL UNIVERSITY - San Diego, CA October 2013 to December 2016 Skills Routers (4 years), Switches (4 years), LAN (8 years), WAN (4 years), MS Office (8 years), Remedy (1 year), JIRA (2 years), Windows 7 (5 years), Servers (8 years), Help Desk (9 years), Patch Management (9 years), Active Directory (8 years), Exchange Server (8 years), Firewalls (2 years), DHCP (6 years), DNS (6 years), Vmware (3 years) Military Service Branch: Navy Service Country: United States Rank: E-5 June 2007 to June 2012 Certifications/Licenses Windows 7 Configuring January 2014 to Present Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist Installing and Configuring Windows Server 2012 August 2014 to Present Administering Windows Server 2012 October 2014 to Present Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    NETWORKING: Cisco Routers, Cisco/Alcatel Switches, LAN/WAN  WORKSTATIONS / SERVERS: Windows XP/7/10; Windows Server 2003/8/12; MS ISA/TMG Server; MS Exchange Server  SOFTWARE: MS Office (Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint), Visio, Remedy, ITSM, JIRA, VMWare Applications, Symantec and McAfee Antivirus Suite, WSUS, Active Directory