Identity and Access Administrator Identity and Access <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Information Systems Specialist - Cerner Corporation Jonesboro, GA • Seeking a position to utilize my skills and abilities and achieve professional growth while being resourceful, innovative and flexible. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Identity and Access Administrator Augusta University Medical Center/ Augusta University - Augusta, GA April 2019 to Present • Maintain and administer computer networks and related computing environments including computer hardware, systems software, applications software, and all configurations.  • Diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve hardware, software, or other network and systems problems and replace defective components when necessary.  • Configure, monitor, and maintain email applications or virus protection software  • Operate master consoles to monitor the performance of computer systems and networks, and to coordinate computer network access and use.  • Implement and provide technical support for voice services and equipment, such as voicemail systems and telecom systems.  • Trains users in computer systems use. Information Systems Specialist Cerner Corporation - Augusta, GA September 2014 to Present • Maintain and administer computer networks and related computing environments including computer hardware, systems software, applications software, and all configurations.  • Diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve hardware, software, or other network and systems problems and replace defective components when necessary.  • Configure, monitor, and maintain email applications or virus protection software  • Operate master consoles to monitor the performance of computer systems and networks, and to coordinate computer network access and use.  • Implement and provide technical support for voice services and equipment, such as voicemail systems and telecom systems.  • Trains users in computer systems use. Client Support Specialist Augusta University - Augusta, GA August 2012 to Present • Maintain and administer computer networks and related computing environments including computer hardware, systems software, applications software, and all configurations.  • Diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve hardware, software, or other network and systems problems and replace defective components when necessary.  • Configure, monitor, and maintain email applications or virus protection software  • Operate master consoles to monitor the performance of computer systems and networks, and to coordinate computer network access and use.  • Implement and provide technical support for voice services and equipment, such as voicemail systems and telecom systems.  • Trains users in computer systems use.  • Conducts Information Technology orientation to all incoming freshman. Education Associates Degree in Computer Information Systems Augusta Technical College May 2012 Skills Active Directory (7 years), BMC (7 years), Cerner (7 years), Citrix (7 years), Identity Management (7 years), Imprivata Cortext Admin (3 years), Peoplesoft Data Analysts (4 years), DUO Multi Factor Authenticaton Admin (Less than 1 year), LMS (7 years), Novell Administrator (7 years), Bomgar Admin (4 years), Windows, Windows 7, Technical Support Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: E3 August 1997 to August 2001 Admin Clerk- Transportation Unit Additional Information SKILLS  -Citrix Administrator -Office 365 Administrator  -Novell Identity Management Administrator -Desire2Learn  -BMC Remedy -Active Directory  -Microsoft Office - Cerner Millennium