Systems Engineer I.T. Field Services <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer I.T. Field Services Systems Engineer I.T. Field Services Thornton, CO Highly motivated professional with years of systems administrator and network infrastructure experience seeking an opportunity to apply my vast knowledge base within the Greater Denver Area. Work Experience Systems Engineer I.T. Field Services United Airlines October 2015 to April 2019 • In addition to previous responsibilities, I managed a team of contractors to handle half of the mountain region airports work orders, projects, upgrades and changes.  • Also managed new station start-ups from the ground up in terms of I.T. (Communications closet, racking and stacking and cable management, all the I.T. hardware required for the station, etc)  • Managed Hardware and Software installation for any of the airports I managed.  • End user support for all of my stations 24x7.  • Managed 3rd party vendors for projects and construction/high and low voltage work.  • Managed projects from start to finish within the I.T. scope of work. Field Services Engineer Contractor February 2015 to October 2015 • Deployment of new hardware and support.  • End user support.  • Software installation support.  • Migration of Windows.  • Communication closet clean-up support.  • Work order completion. Doctor Computer November 2011 to December 2014 Computer Field Technician / MSP Provider  • Built servers and maintained server operations.  • Desktop and server support.  • Migration of windows.  • Active directory setup and support.  • Managed backups for countless of business.  • Installation of all hardware and software including virus protection and updates.  • Installed and configured networks/VPN. Systems I.T. Administrator Roy's Appliance and Mechanical Inc October 2010 to October 2011 • Built servers and maintained server operations.  • Desktop and server support.  • Migration of windows.  • Active directory setup and support.  • Managed backups.  • Installation of all hardware and software including virus protection and updates.  • Installed and configured network.  • Customer service and relations.  • Book keeping (QuickBooks) Education BS in Computer Science in Software Engineering University of Phoenix June 2020 Skills Active directory, Vmware, Mdm, Quickbooks, Microsoft outlook, Outlook, SCCM, System Administrator, DNS, Powershell Additional Information Technical Skills  Software: Windows Active Directory, SCCM 2012, SCCM 2016, Windows Power shell, Microsoft Outlook, Office 365, QuickBooks, VMWare, Airwatch MDM    Personal: 12 years of I.T. Experience, IT Admin, Cable Management, Network admin, hardworking individual, quick learner who needs little to no supervision with great multi-tasking abilities and works fast and efficiently.