Sr. Systems Engineer (Linux Admin) Sr.<span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer (Linux Admin) Sr. Systems Engineer (Linux Admin) - Austin Community College Austin, TX ? IT professional with 8+ Years of experience in Installation, Configuration, Management of Linux OS (RHEL, CentOS, Ubuntu), Amazon Web Services (AWS), DevOps, Windows Servers in an Agile environment.  ? Worked in infrastructure team on installation, configuration and administration of CentOS 5.x/6.x/7, Red Hat Linux 8/9, RHEL 5.x/6.x/7, Red Hat Satellite 6, Windows Server and SUSE Linux 10.x/11.  ? Experience in System Administration, System Builds, Server builds, Installs, Upgrades, Patches, Migration, Troubleshooting, Security, Backup, Disaster Recovery, Performance Monitoring and Fine-tuning on UNIX Red Hat Linux Systems.  ? Experienced in Cloud automation using AWS Cloud Formation templates, Python, Ruby, Chef (DevOps), Puppet (DevOps) and Vagrant.  ? Experience in managing applications on Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud.  ? Installation, Configuration and Administration of VMware VSphere4, ESXI, VMware View, vCenter Server, Host Clustering with HA, DRS, Replication Manager 5.x/6.0, Site Recovery Manager, VMotion, Physical to Virtual Migration and Managing SAN Data stores with, iSCSI, NFS & FC.  ? Worked with VMware Orchestrator, VMware realize Automation 6.0 (vRA), catalog management, creating cloud server provisioning entitlements, creating and defining business groups, creating catalogue items, creating services for the catalogue items, creating Windows and Linux (Red Hat6) blueprints.  ? Experience in Installing, upgrading and configuring Red Hat Linux 4.x, 5.x, and 6.x using Kick start Servers.  ? Extensively worked on Jenkins/Ansible/Bamboo/Docker by installing, configuring and maintaining for the purpose of continuous integration (CI) and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  ? Experience in development and configuration experience with software provisioning tools like Chef, Puppet and Ansible.  ? Expertise in configuring and managing services like AWS EC2 using AMI's available. Configured multiple servers depending on application needs using continuous integration tools like Jenkins.  ? Experience working on configuration management in Linux using Puppet there by developing Puppet Manifests using RUBY for provisioning applications and scripts.  ? Expertise in using build tools like MAVEN and ANT for the building of deployable artifacts such as war & ear from source code.  ? Experience in Branching, Merging, Tagging and maintaining the version across the environments using SCM tools like Subversion (SVN), GIT (GitHub, GitLab), Clear case, Harvest and VSS.  ? Designing the entire cycle of application development by using Docker.  ? Wrote custom monitoring and integrated monitoring methods into deployment processes to develop self-healing solutions using Nagios, Graphite and Zabbix etc.  ? Implanted continuous integration concepts using Hudson, Cruise Control, Jenkins and AnthillPro.  ? Installed and configured monitoring tools such as Nagios, Splunk, SiteScope for monitoring the network bandwidth and the hard drives status.  ? Good working knowledge in ELK, VCE, vBlock, vCloud and Cloud Computing environment.  ? Conduct systems design, feasibility & cost studies and recommend cost-effective cloud solutions like Amazon Web Services (AWS) and experience with Perforce, Subversion and CVS.  ? Involved in handling Tickets, Monitoring, Troubleshooting and maintenance for Day to day Activities.  ? Management of library versions and deprecated code, Design and sequencing of automated builds & test runs and Troubleshooting expertise - build failures due to dependencies, tests, etc  ? Good Interpersonal Skills, team-working attitude, takes initiatives and very proactive in solving problems and providing best solutions.  ? WebLogic and Tomcat Administrator experience, with knowledge in clustering, JMS, Connection Pools, J2EE Deployments, Thread Dump Analysis  ? Extensive knowledge in developing applications in a single page (SPAs) using various JavaScript frameworks like angular Js, Backbone Js, Jade, Pure CSS and Bootstrap.  ? Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Oprah, Firefox, Google Chrome and Internet Explorer.  ? Excellent communication skills, with an ability to understand the concepts and technical and non-technical requirements. Work Experience Sr. Systems Engineer (Linux Admin) Austin Community College - Austin, TX November 2018 to Present Client Description: The Austin Community College District promotes student success and community development by providing affordable access, through traditional and distance learning modes, to higher education and workforce training, including appropriate applied baccalaureate degrees, in its service area.  Responsibilities:  ? Installing, configuring, and maintaining the administrative college wide server operating systems..  ? Designing, implementing, and maintaining security levels to restrict and block unauthorized access to servers and services.  ? Providing input with developing policies and standards for the connectivity, accessibility, and security of the administrative computer system.  ? Maintains and upgrades servers, hardware, software, and operating systems.  ? Keeps current with the latest technology; regularly attends technical training in order to maintain technical expertise.  ? Creating and maintaining Linux Debian Operating systems.  ? Ability to automate routine tasks using tools like puppet for Minimum Security (Min sec) features like duo Two factor, Splunk, Ossec and TSM.  ? Working on Upgrading and maintaining more than 107 Debian Servers.  ? Clone virtual machine in VMware VCenter, creating templates, taking a Snapshot of a VM and deploy Virtual Machine using template in VCenter Server.  ? Involved in managing VMware VCenter to manage VMs and users.  ? Installation, Configuration, and OS upgrades on Debian 6.X/7.X,8.X  ? Implemented and administered VMware ESXi 4.x 5.x and 6 for running the Windows, Red Hat, Debian Linux Servers on development and test servers.  ? Working on patch management, installing patches on required fields.  ? Monitoring all the Linux servers using Zabbix and PRTG.  ? Maintaining and creating user accounts and groups by assigning Respective permissions.  ? Troubleshooting Active Directory, and Related Problems.  ? Experienced on IBM tapes management, inserting and taking out from IRON MOUNTAIN on daily basis.  ? Worked and tested Ticketing Application developed by CITsmart.  ? Migrated VMWARE VMs to AWS and Managed Services like EC2, S3 Bucket, Route53, ELB, EBS etc. with Ansible.  ? Analyzing Splunk, Ossec, duo authentication, TSM (backup) and Ksplice logs.  ? Managed monitoring tools like Oracle Enterprise Management Grid Control (OEM Agent) and Nagios to perform various activities like setting up Notifications and Alerts schedule, creating jobs.  ? Expertise in migration and upgrading of WebLogic Server and updating JDK versions and installing patches for WebLogic server  ? Requesting quotations for Hardware parts from SuperMicro.  ? Configuring Network through Yast, Windows Drives backup & restore.  ? Configuring and Flashing BIOS setup, RAID, IPMI etc configurations.  Environment: Oracle Enterprise Linux 6.x,7.x, Vmware Vcenter, Apache, Suse12, Redhat, Debian 6.X/7.X/8.X, Nagios, DNS, DSCP, TCP, bash, Cisco Nexus and Cyclades switches, Puppet, LVM, S3, EFS, EBS, ASG, IAM, ELB, Route 53, VPC, Cisco Jabber, Slack, Service Now (SNOW), Git repo, Terraform, Splunk, Ossec, Duo, Ksplice, Qualys, TSM, OEM, HPDP, NAS, SAN, Dell PowerEdge, Pure Storage, Netapp. Linux/VMware/Cloud (AWS) System Administrator Tyson Foods - Springdale, AR November 2017 to October 2018 Client Description: Tyson Foods, Inc., together with its subsidiaries, operates as a food company worldwide. It operates through four segments: Chicken, Beef, Pork, and Prepared Foods. It also supplies poultry breeding stock; sells allied products, such as hide and meats; and manufactures and markets frozen and refrigerated food products, including pepperoni, bacon, breakfast sausage, turkey, lunchmeat, hot dogs, pizza crusts.  Responsibilities:  ? Installation, Configuration, and OS upgrades on RHEL 5.X/6.X/7.X, SUSE 11.X, 12.X.  ? Implemented and administered VMware ESX 4.x 5.x and 6 for running the Windows, Centos, SUSE, Red Hat Linux and Ubuntu Servers on development and test servers  ? Experienced in using AWS cloud Formation and Puppet together to automate the entire deployment and management process, from AWS resources through the application artifacts.  ? Included working in VMware Orchestrator, VMware vRealize Automation 6.0 (VRA), catalog management, creating cloud server provisioning entitlements, creating and defining business groups, creating catalog items, creating services for the catalog items, creating Windows and Linux (Red Hat 6), VMware blueprints.  ? Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management using Puppet.  ? Implemented Migration from VMWARE to AWS using VMDK Import tools.  ? Used Puppet for performing activities from provisioning to reporting and used Puppet to automate the slave configuration setup and maintenance.  ? Maintaining and creating user accounts and groups by assigning Respective permissions.  ? Troubleshooting Active Directory, and Related Problems.  ? Creating OU in Active Directory to manage and store information.  ? Wonder ware expertise Assist with security audits and scripting.  ? Managing Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure with automation and configuration management tools such as Ansible, Puppet, or custom-built. Designing cloud-hosted solutions and specific AWS product suite experience.  ? Implemented Terraform modules for deployment of various applications across multiple cloud providers and managing infrastructure.  ? Automate provisioning and repetitive tasks using Terraform and Python, Docker container, Service Orchestration.  ? Experience in cloud provisioning tools such as Terraform and Cloud Formation.  ? Worked with Ansible Playbooks for zero-downtime installation, upgrade, downgrade, and uninstall processes (MongoDB, Redis, and MySQL).  ? Deployed DevOps using Puppet, Dashboard, and Puppet DB for configuration management to existing infrastructure.  ? Resolved update, merge and password authentication issues in Jenkins and Jira and implementing Tool Suites for (Jira, Jenkins).  ? Provided end-user training for all GIT and Subversion (SVN) users to effectively use the tool.  ? Involved in development and configuration experience with software provisioning tools like Puppet and Ansible.  ? Exposure to Marathon & Zookeeper cluster environment for application Deployments & Docker containers.  ? Automated MySQL container deployment in Docker using Python and monitoring of these containers using Nagios.  ? Design, build, deploy, maintain and enhance ELK platform  ? Manage individual project priorities and deliverables and communicate progress to internal teams and executives  ? Installed, Configured and administered Oracle WebLogic Server 10.0 MP1, 10.0 MP2, 11g and Web servers like I Planet/Apache in Development, Test and Production Environments.  ? Installed and configured I Planet/Apache Plug-ins for WebLogic.  ? Set up Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) communication between I Planet and the WebLogic Application Server.  ? Migrated WebLogic Server applications from existing version 8.1/9.2 to 10.0 MP2.  ? Work with partner divisions to drive new ELK platform capabilities and roadmaps  ? Involved in editing the existing MAVEN files in case of errors or changes in the project requirements.  ? Managed Maven project dependencies by creating parent-child relationships between projects.  ? DevOps engineer for a team that involved different development teams and multiple simultaneous software releases.  ? Utilized Jenkins and Ansible for DevOps automation and Magento software deployments.  ? Used JIRA for change management and bug tracking and automated the JIRA tasks using Jira cl and Perl.  ? Developed and implemented Software Release Management strategies for various applications according to the agile process.  ? Responsible for the development and maintenance of processes and associated scripts/tools for automated build, testing and deployment of the products to various developments.  ? Performance Tuning and Management for Linux/AIX server and working with the application/database team to resolve issues.  ? Day to day administration of the Development environment and Production and Test environment systems. 24x7 on-call support.  Environment: Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Linux/AIX, VMware, Amazon web services (AWS), Git, Github, SVN, Puppet, Ansible, TFS, Maven, Jenkins, Docker and Jira. Linux/VMware/Cloud (AWS) System Administrator Molina Health Care- VA February 2017 to September 2017 Description: Molina Healthcare offers Medicare Advantage plans designed to meet the needs of individuals with Medicare or both Medicaid and Medicare coverage. Molina Medicare plans offer comprehensive, quality benefits and programs including access to a large selection of doctors, hospitals and other health care providers at little or no out-of-pocket cost.  Responsibilities:  ? Administration of RHEL 5/6 that includes installation, testing, tuning, upgrading and loading patches, troubleshooting both physical and virtual server issues.  ? Using the Opscode Chef Cookbooks/recipes Migrated the VMWARE's to AWS and Managed Services like EC2, S3 Bucket, Route, ELB, EBS etc. Responsible for CI and CD using Jenkins, Rundeck and Chef.  ? Installed, Deployed Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6.x/7.x, Cent OS and installation of packages and patches for Red Hat Linux Servers.  ? Installed/Configured Redhat Linux cluster 5x version & Configuring the cluster resources  ? Upgrading the kernel in all the Redhat Linux servers and creating initrd image to boot from the Upgraded kernel.  ? Migration of Redhat Linux servers from 4.x version and working with the application team to resolve the issues post migration.  ? Included working in VMware Orchestrator, VMware vRealize Automation 6.0 (VRA), catalog management, creating cloud server provisioning entitlements, creating and defining business groups, creating catalog items, creating services for the catalog items, creating Windows and Linux (Red Hat 6), VMware blueprints.  ? Mounting & unmounting the netapp storage LUNs to the Redhat Linux servers and troubleshooting the issues encountered.  ? Adding storage to the cluster disks and increasing/decreasing the file system in RHEL.  ? Designed and implemented Chef, including the internal best practices, cookbooks, automated cookbook CI and CD system. Made use of Jenkins for Chef CI, Rake for style and linting.  ? Involved with configuration management and automation tools such as Chef, Ansible.  ? Implementing new projects builds framework using Jenkins & maven as build framework.  ? Implementation with Chef Enterprise Hosted besides On-Premise, Installed Workstation, Bootstrapped Nodes, Wrote Recipes and Cookbooks and uploaded them to Chef-server, Managed On-site.  ? Automated with in AWS (Amazon Web Services) including deploying new server instances through automation with Chef.  ? Written/Developed Chef Cookbooks to automate the entire deployment process as well as Infrastructure admin tasks.  ? Designing and implementing for fully automated server build management, monitoring and deployment By Using DevOps Technologies like Chef.  ? Worked on Installation/Configuration/Administrated VMware ESXi 5.1/5.5 & 6.0 and migrated existing servers into VMware Infrastructure.  ? Provided Support to migrate from WebLogic server to JBoss.  ? Provided 24/7 application support to all production applications running on JBoss and WebLogic.  ? Developed Startup, Shutdown and Bounce the WebLogic server scripts  ? Administration of RHEL 6 which includes installation, testing, tuning, upgrading and loading patches, troubleshooting server issues.  ? Also used to automate the job control system so that scheduling, monitoring and reporting can be performed automatically.  ? Installed Build Forge and performed troubleshooting during installation.  ? Management of library versions and deprecated code, Design and sequencing of automated builds & test runs and Troubleshooting expertise - build failures due to dependencies, tests, etc.  Environment: Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6.x/7.x, Chef, Ansible, Docker, Python, MongoDB, Jenkins and Ansible. System Administrator Trelleborg Automotive, Haven, MI August 2015 to December 2016 Description: Trelleborg is a world leader in engineered polymer solutions that seal, damp and protect critical applications in demanding environments. Our innovative engineered solutions accelerate performance for our customers in a sustainable way.  Responsibilities:  ? Administered, maintained Red Hat 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, AS, ES, Troubleshooting Hardware, Operating System Application & Network problems and performance issues and Deployed latest patches for, Linux and Application servers, Performed Red Hat Linux Kernel Tuning.  ? Administered Linux servers for several functions including managing Apache/Tomcat server, mail server, and MySQL databases in both development and production.  ? Created users, manage user permissions; maintain User & File System quota on Red hat Linux.  ? In depth knowledge on VM Ware ESXi Server and Desktop Virtualization products.  ? Maintain, test and support of VMware ESX server running both Linux and Windows servers.  ? Building servers and creating templates/images for deploying virtual machines.  ? Built the Base Images in VMWare time to time and testing the solutions using the linked clones and full clones.  ? Troubleshooting equipment malfunctions, failures, and develop resolutions in a timely fashion.  ? Attended team meetings, change control meetings to update installation progress, and for upcoming changes in environment.  ? Used ANT & MAVEN build tools in Jenkins to build scripts and move from one environment to other.  ? Responsible for Connectivity Issues among various Servers and Switches and also responsible for installation of various hardware components on various servers.  ? Provide remote support for Linux servers and maintaining SLAs, Performance tuning and enhancing. Production Support for 100+ Linux Servers customizing the applications according to the business requirements.  ? Responsible for Connectivity Issues among various Servers and Switches and also responsible for installation of various hardware components on various servers.  ? Responsible for Patches for the operating system, building startup shell scripts, managing the automation of cron jobs and managing file systems.  ? Integrated JIRA with Stash and created automated release notes using Perl scripts.  ? Used JIRA to track bug issues and change management.  ? Splunk deployment, configuration and maintenance across a variety of UNIX and Windows platforms for creating Libraries, projects and jobs in Build forge for automating the build and deploy processes.  ? Implementing a Continuous Delivery framework using Jenkins, Chef, Maven & Nexus in Linux environment.  ? Actively involved in monitoring server performance, network traffic to reduce performance bottleneck by enhanced performance ensuring upstream queuing.  ? Used Maven Responsible dependency management system to deploy snapshot and artifacts to Nexus to share artifacts across projects and environments.  ? Handled the development of reporting metrics and to provide reports to Management on different levels of statistics.  ? Resolved system issues and inconsistencies in coordination with quality assurance and engineering teams.  ? Integration of Maven/Nexus, Jenkins, Urban Code Deploy with Patterns/Release, Git, Confluence, JIRA  Environment: Maven, Redhat Linux, Unix, Jira, Jenkins, VMware, Nexus, Git, JIRA, Apache/Tomcat server, shell scripts, Perl scripts. Systems Administrator IBM - IN February 2011 to March 2015 Description: IBM India Private Limited provides hardware, software, IT services, and consulting. It offers software products that include business analytics, enterprise content management, information management, software management, service management, systems software, and storage software; and WebSphere, an integration and optimization software. The company also provides systems and servers, such as power systems, mainframes, blade centers, UNIX servers, and Linux servers; and storage systems that include disk systems, tape systems, storage area networks, network attached storage, and other storages. In addition, it offers business services, such as business analytics and optimization, strategy.  Responsibilities:  ? Maintaining several servers running Linux Red Hat and Windows operating systems, supporting organization network monitoring tools  ? Total system architecture was developed, by design requirements and made certain total system is integrated, tested and verified.  ? Installed and administered Tomcat repository to deploy the artifacts generated by Maven and to store the dependent jars, which are used during the build.  ? Manage Local Area Networks (LAN) and Wide Area Networks (WAN). Performs installation, maintenance and upgrades to all equipment located on the stake holder's sites, to include Cisco, Juniper and other networking devices.  ? Ensure total system architecture is developed, that design requirements are met and managed and the total system is integrated, tested and verified.  ? Managing users and group creation, deletion, locking/unlocking, resetting passwords, and controlling password aging, user labeling compliance remediation and controlling user account expiry.  ? Installed, managed and implemented various java (JDK) applications on multiple UNIX platforms.  ? Demonstrated ability with server and data storage hardware concepts with ability to conduct basic hardware and software sizing.  ? Install software, apply patches, manage file systems, monitor performance and troubleshoot alerts from commercial, open source and locally developed applications and tools.  ? Provide support of in-house mail system. This includes daily maintenance and all software and hardware upgrades. Performed automated installations of Operating system using kick start for Red Hat Enterprise Linux and Jumpstart Linux.  ? Create the Connection Pool and Data Source for Connecting the Oracle Database.  Environment: Tomcat, Java, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Maven. Education Bachelor's in information technology in information technology JNTU Skills Apache, Shell scripting, Solaris, Sun, Application server, Docker, Html, Bootstrap, Jenkins, Perl, Python, Scripting, Subversion, Svn, Xml, Nfs, Chef, Nagios, Puppet, Vmware Additional Information Technical Skills:  Operating Systems: RHEL/Cent OS 5.x/6.x/7x, VMware, Ubuntu/Debian/Fedora, Sun Solaris, Windows.  Build/Automation Tools: Puppet, Chef, Ant, Maven, Ansible, Jenkins, Hudson & Bambo, Docker  Languages: Bash/Shell Scripting, Perl, PowerShell, SQL, Python scripting  Database: MySQL, MongoDB, SQL Server  Monitoring Tools: Grafana, Cloud watch, Nagios, Zabbix, PRTG  Web/Application Servers: Apache Tomcat, NFS, FTP, WebSphere Application Server, JBoss  Cloud Computing: AWS, EC2  Version Control Tools: SVN, GitHub, Subversion  Web Technology: JDBC, XML, HTML, Java Script, jQuery, Bootstrap, Java/J2EE