IT Systems Analyst Level 3 Southwest Region IT <span class="hl">Systems</span> Analyst Level 3 Southwest Region IT Systems Analyst Level 3 Southwest Region - Harsch Investment Properties San Diego, CA Experienced Information Technology Systems Analyst committed to maintaining innovative technical skills and  up- to- date industry knowledge. Responsible for monitoring servers, experience with back-ups, email systems,  dhcp, and active directory. Additionally, I have eight years help desk experience, troubleshooting expertise. Work Experience IT Systems Analyst Level 3 Southwest Region Harsch Investment Properties - San Diego, CA April 2018 to Present Job duties consist of break fixes from the network level to the helpdesk level. I do all level 3 - 1 troubleshooting and resolutions. This includes programming and deploying new switches, palo altos, and cisco routers and installing  them upon deployment. Take care of all new users such as assigning appropriate office 365 licenses and imaging  their equipment prior to start date. Also perform day to day, break fix of windows 10 enterprise, and all company  hardware.  My region consists of all of California, Nevada, and Arizona. Traveling 50% of time to sites depending on their  needs. I support ~200 employees in my regions.  Accomplishments  • Azure active Directory domain users  • Office 365 Licensing / management  • Windows 10 break fixes  • One drive implementation and support  • Exchange Online  • Re-imaging and deployment of company pcs, cellphones, tablets and headsets.  120 + Helpdesk Ticket resolutions / week.  • Managed the migration from cisco network environment, to Fortinet equipment from top down.  • Manage all company vendors installs / change orders / COI's, etc  • Data center management of our 2016 windows servers.  • Palo alto, cisco meraki management Technical Assistance Level 2 - Las Vegas, NV April 2017 to April 2018 Job duties consist of when tasked resolving tickets relating to hardware, routers, clinics and outages. Cisco router and switch support for over 1,500 clinics U.S. wide. Windows 2012 and 2016 server administration, which includes  setting up our imaging servers, print servers and printer applications such as papercut and secure scan. In addition  active directory support on a daily basis including password resets, new hires, placing computers in to the right OU, and adding and removing group policy's to companywide users. In addition I setup and maintain our new windows  server 2016 servers.  Accomplishments  • Active Directory domain users  • DNS, DHCP reservations  • SCCM Management  • Service Now / Remedy help desk ticketing system  • Network setups including windows server 2012R2, and 2016.  • SMTP relay server setups  120 + Helpdesk Ticket resolutions / week.  • SMB configurations to windows and mac computers for scanning from copiers  • Windows server administration (2016 server core and data center version)  • Group Policy updates to roll out on all computers  • Imaging and repairing all hardware. This includes installing operating system, setting computer to the right O.U. in Active Directory and then GP update. Installing bitlocker on each computer and backing up on our servers. Joining  the computers to our domain and applying all appropriate updates.  • Laptop screen replacements, keyboard replacements, hard drive replacements, etc. I.T. Systems Analyst Xerox - Las Vegas, NV April 2016 to April 2017 I perform network installations ahead of incoming multifunction copiers to end users. When a customer orders a multifunction copier, I go out and inspect the site for network configurations and power requirements. This includes  recommending servers, switches and patch panels when necessary. I then implement and configure all required  equipment. Which includes setting up domain accounts via Active Directory for scan to SMB on the copiers.  Additionally I setup and maintain relay servers for SMTP to use when not already in place. Experience using DHCP with reservations for copiers and separate reservations for the end users computers. This also includes using static  IP's when necessary and vice versa.    Accomplishments  • Active Directory domain users  • DNS, DHCP reservations  • Network setups including windows server 2008, and 2012.  • SMTP relay server setups  • SMB configurations to windows and mac computers for scanning from copiers  • SQL command line experience  • Multifunction copier installs including scan to folder / server, scan to email, and configurations of copiers IP  addresses. Including DNS servers, gateways, and subnets.  • End user support via remote desktop.  • PC Imaging for all of our employees / customers Contractor Caesars Entertainment - Las Vegas, NV January 2016 to December 2016 position)    Experience in setting group privileges via active directory, as well as adding and remove user accounts. Experience  in activating ports and patching them to the switch with the proper vlan configuration. Xerox printer setups and troubleshooting experience. As well we deploy new user computers and printers as requested. Experience with  windows xp, vista 7 and 10.  Accomplishments  • Active Directory  • DHCP, DNS experience.  • Juniper Switch configurations  • Windows xp, vista, 7 and 10 support  • Print Server setups and deployments  • Patch panel configurations  • Configure and maintain networks for special events on property.  • Remote Desktop Support  • Imaging of computers for internal use. Junior Systems Administrator Infostream Group Inc - Las Vegas, NV July 2013 to February 2016 Diagnosed and trouble shoot UNIX and Windows hardware issues, and applied solutions to increase  company efficiency.  • Primary tester for new releases of our software.  • Provide hardware support for both Unix and Windows systems, including Xerox printers and Juniper  switches.  • Atlassian ticketing system to keep track of bugs, and improvements.  • Reach out to customers to gain feedback and improve our websites.  • Deskpro ticketing system to respond to emails, live chat, and phone support for our customers.  • SQL CLI experience  • Imaging \ Deployment of new hardware and images  • Inbound 40 calls / day helpdesk support Tech Support Level 1 Support Services LLC - Las Vegas, NV September 2011 to July 2013 Provided continued maintenance and development of bug fixes and patch sets for existing web  applications.  • Provided tech support to our customers that would encounter any issues via Kayako help desk software.  • Provided exceptional customer service via telephone, emails, and our live chat system.  • ~20 inbound calls per day helpdesk resolutions.  • Active directory password resets, and account unlocks Education Associate of Applied Science in Information Technology College of Southern Nevada Skills Active directory, Juniper, Comptia, Docker, Ruby, Data backup, Mysql, Linux, R2, Jira, Help desk, Xerox, Typing, Windows server 2012, Windows server 2012 r2, Windows xp, Maintenance Additional Information SKILLS  • CompTia A + Certified  • Windows and Linux Docker implementation and maintenance  • Hardware support across all mobile platforms, including tablets, phones, and desktop computers. Which  included windows XP, vista, 7, 8 and now 10.  • Data backup and retrieval  • MySQL CLI experience  • Ruby Proficient  • System Upgrades  • Four years of help desk experience  • Jira Ticketing system  • 80 GWPM Typing  • Active Directory Experience  • Juniper Switch Configurations  • Xerox Printer troubleshooting experience  • SCCM Management  • Windows server 2012 R2 management