Software Engineer - Product Software Engineer - Product Software Engineer - Product - NovaModule, LP San Francisco Bay Area, CA Work Experience Software Engineer - Product NovaModule, LP - Oakland, CA November 2018 to Present • In sandbox and production, developed and implemented custom cloud iPaaS for 3PL and Enterprise size businesses to Oracle Netsuite via LastPass.  • Created installation and configuration guides for new features within pre-built smart connectors;(ShipStation, WooCommerce, and Magento1-2->Oracle Netsuite) • Implemented SaaS Integration product with client via GoToMeeting license.  • Mapped Netsuite field data types from (CSV, XML, JSON -> FTP) for custom integration of enterprise size businesses.  • Used Postman and node.js for API testing. Experienced with using REST, SOAP, RPC APIs.  • Being a Zendesk Agent, I assign, track and review engineering tasks including bug fixes, feature and performance enhancements among team members in Hyderabad, India. Solve any client software issues. Lead Web Developer - Storefront Client Web Designer Easy Copy & Print Center - Berkeley, CA January 2017 to October 2018 Creating, designing, and developing website layouts in addition to creating advanced interactive website features using Javascript and its popular libraries.  • Providing solutions, developing and maintaining website full stack functionality with SQL database setup, and other related internal and external activities.  • Aiding to develop IT requirements for .js web applications including overall network structure for the business securely via PHP.  • Respond rapidly to continuous changes and real-time product updates required for websites; Conduct internal trainings & knowledge sharing regularly • Developing interactive, stable, high quality web applications through the use of Ruby on Rails. Full Stack Developer/ Platform Engineer Byte Size Inc - Dublin, CA September 2018 to September 2018 Developing website pages, API layouts in addition to creating advanced interactive website features and design overall architecture of the web platform.  • Maintain quality and ensure responsiveness of applications with code integrity and code organization.  • Collaborate with the CEO to design and launch new features.  • Understanding and implementation of security and data protection.  • Highly experienced with back-end programming languages { PHP, Ruby, Java, MySQL, JavaScript} • Proficient experience using JavaScript libraries and frameworks such as AngularJS, NodeJS, VueJS, ReactJS, BackboneJS.  • Development experience for both mobile and desktop. ResNet Desktop Support Technician ResNet UC Santa Cruz - Santa Cruz, CA August 2015 to December 2016 • Produced internal computer and LAN/WAN network repair documentation.  • Prioritized and collaborated tasks between staff to ensure increased productivity.  • Expedited the repairs of dozens of computers within the office with various issues including virus infections, re-formats, and replacing malfunctioning hardware.  • Effectively resolved hundreds of campus wide network outages using tools and skills that identified bad/unnecessary network behaviors IT Cloud Systems Administrator Intern TSG Networks - El Cerrito, CA June 2014 to September 2014 June 2014 - September 2014 • Provided technical support for both hardware and software issues our clients encountered remotely with LogMeIn while managing configuration and operation of client-based computer operating systems and backing up to Citrix server • Remotely monitored the Citrix system daily and responded immediately to security or usability concerns • Created and verified backups of data while responding to and resolving many help desk requests • Upgraded systems and processes as required for enhanced functionality and security issue resolution • Registered administrate infrastructure, including firewalls, databases, malware protection software and other processes • Installed and tested computer-related equipment such as Cisco WAPs, switches, and routers • Given extension to internship due to producing increased efficiency for business. Education B.S. in Computer Science in Scrum and agile methodologies University of California - Santa Cruz, CA September 2014 to June 2018 Skills MYSQL, PHP, Git, Android, Javascript