Systems Administrator full-time <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> full-time Systems Administrator full-time Cerritos, CA Work Experience Systems Administrator full-time Ocean Media LLC - Huntington Beach, CA May 2018 to April 2019 * Supported Windows Server 2008/2012 R2/2016 enterprise network environment.  * Configured and maintained VMware 6.7 and Hyper-V host servers.  * Administered and managed Dell EMC Unisphere ISCI storage array for VMware, SQL, and file storage. Systems Administrator (Contractor) Pacific Dental Services - Irvine, CA May 2016 to February 2018 * Supported Windows Server 2008/2012 R2 enterprise network environment consisting close to 17,000 user base.  * Troubleshot over 600 dental offices nationwide with systems and network computer related issues as a 3 tier level support engineer.  * Managed and maintained Exchange Server 2010 servers in a clustered DAG environment.  * Supported the VMware ESXi 5.5 environment.  * Part of the Active Directory Remediation and Migration Team of individuals to identify weakness, vulnerabilities, improvements, and relocating datacenters.  * Monitored Windows Servers with Solarwinds and Microsoft SCCM (Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager).  * Administered Amazon and Microsoft Azure cloud based services for SQL database and file storage. Systems Administrator (Contractor) part-time Children Dental Group - South Gate, CA January 2016 to May 2016 * Supported Windows Server 2008 R2 and 2012 R2 for 10 dental offices.  * Maintained Microsoft Hyper-V virtual environment with attached storage array (Dell PowerVault).  * Developed improvements with group policies, backup strategies, and network applications access. Systems Administrator (Contractor) Harvard Eye Associates - Laguna Hills, CA January 2015 to October 2015 * Supported two Ophthalmology clinic offices and one administration office in a Windows Server 2008 R2 enterprise environment.  * Maintained Vmware 5.5 clustered environment connected to a NetApp storage array running 30 virtual machines.  * Maintained Shoretel IP phone systems.  * Managed Google online cloud services such as email, spreadsheets, and cloud drives. Systems Administrator Cyberlogitec America, Inc - Seal Beach, CA April 2011 to December 2013 * Supported the Port of Long Beach, Oakland, and Seattle Terminals running Windows Server 2008 R2 environments in two separate domains (TTIUS, TWIC) consisted of 23 Windows servers (file/print servers, Blackberry Server, Exchange Server 2010, legacy servers, and application servers) comprised with 300 user base.  * Maintained Exchange Server 2010 enterprise in a DAG clustered environment.  * Deployed and supported VMware vSphere 5.1 connected with an ISCSI SAN storage array.  * Performed maintenance and monitored all servers and desktops utilizing Paessler PRTG monitoring software.  * Developed a backup and recovery strategy for data recovery. Systems Administrator (Contractor) Bohm, Matsen, Kegel, and Aguilera, LLP - Costa Mesa, CA March 2010 to February 2011 * Supported Windows Server 2003 and 2008 environment consisted of 4 servers (terminal server, Exchange Server 2007, legacy server, and application server).  * Maintained the stability of the entire network infrastructure that included servers, desktops, routers, and switches.  * Developed an effective backup solution to restore data files and applications in an event of a server crash or a catastrophic disaster. Systems Engineer (Contractor) ZCSterling Corporation - Irvine, CA March 2009 to October 2009 * Supported a Windows enterprise environment consisted of 200 plus physical servers (Exchange Server 2003, print, file, SQL databases, Sharepoint Server 2007) with 4,000 user base.  * Maintained VMware ESX 3.5 servers running over 100 VMs in a VDI (virtual desktop infrastructure) and a Citrix farm environment.  * Performed any necessary maintenance of servers and switches as needed in the datacenter. Education Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer Enterprise Network Training Program 2003 Bachelor of Arts in Psychology in Psychology California State University - Long Beach, CA 1998 Information Technology Training School - Anaheim, CA Additional Information General Skills  * Over 25 years of solid experience in network infrastructure support, security, and troubleshooting.  * Excellent ability to synthesize technical data and resolve network related problems efficiently and quickly.  * Effective communication and interpersonal skills with senior management, technical staff, third-party vendors, and non-technical users.  * Highly motivated, detail-oriented, responsible, self-starter and team player with high work ethics.  * Excellent track record in project completions and demonstrating results above and beyond expectations.  * Provide best practices in implementation of today's ever-changing technologies in catering small, mid-size, or large enterprise network environments.    Summary of Technical Skills  Systems and Software Technologies  * Expertise in Microsoft 2008/2012/2016 Standard/Datacenter Server Editions.  ? Installation, maintaining, and recovering different array of servers (DNS, DHCP, Active Directory, Remote Desktop Services, etc.).  ? Strong troubleshooting methodology and applying best practices for Windows Servers, Active Directory (AD), domain user accounts/groups permissions, file resources, group policies (GPOs), sites and services, and web services (IIS).  ? Utilizing Microsoft Powershell to administer and automate tasks.  * Expertise in deployment and support of Microsoft Hyper-V virtualization technology.  * Skillful in deployment and support of Vmware ESXi virtualization technology.  * Proficient in administration and troubleshooting of Microsoft Exchange Server 2007/2010 Standard and Enterprise Editions.  * Understanding the concept of advanced storage array of DAS (direct attached storage), NAS (network attached storage), iSCSI SANs, and FC SANs.  * Proficient in maintaining the health of servers and desktops with utilizing Microsoft System Center Solutions or 3rd party monitoring solutions (PRTG or Solarwinds).  * Excellent understanding of systems and network communications in a small, mid-size, or large enterprise network environments.