Senior Systems Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Technician (Level 2) DeForest, WI Hard-working IT professional with 7 years of experience in a NOC/Managed service environment, looking for a position that will allow me to grow professionally. Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator Mad City Techs - Madison, WI May 2019 to Present • Respond to customer requests in a timely and professional manor, in person, by phone, or via electronic communication.  • Troubleshoot hardware and software issues in a wide variety of network environments.  • Compile and enter accurate notes on work performed into electronic ticketing system in addition to customer invoicing.  • Analyze equipment performance records to determine the need for repair or replacement.  • Configure, monitor, and maintain email applications or virus protection software.  • Coordinate with vendors and with company personnel to facilitate purchases.  • Gather data pertaining to customer needs, and recommend changes to improve systems and network configurations, and determine hardware or software requirements related to such changes.  • Maintain and administer computer networks and related computing environments including computer hardware, systems software, applications software. System Technician (Level 2) Applied Tech Solutions - Madison, WI June 2015 to April 2019 • Analyze and report computer network security breaches or attempted breaches.  • Analyze network data to determine network usage, disk space availability, or server function.  • Configure security settings or access permissions for groups or individuals.  • Configure WAN or LAN routers or related equipment.  • Document help desk requests and resolutions.  • Document network support activities and update technical documentation if needed  • Provide telephone support related to networking or connectivity issues. Help desk technician Wisconsin Reinsurance Corporation - Madison, WI August 2014 to May 2015 • Answer user inquiries regarding computer software or hardware operation to resolve problems.  • Develop training materials and procedures, or train users in the proper use of hardware or software.  • Install and perform minor repairs to hardware, software, or peripheral equipment, following design or installation specifications.  • Refer major hardware or software problems or defective products to vendors or technicians for service.  • Set up equipment for employee use, performing or ensuring proper installation of cables, operating systems, or appropriate software. Systems Engineer DirectNetworks, Inc - Madison, WI November 2012 to August 2014 • Handle client and auto-generated cases in timely manner regarding any domain, hardware, desktop or managed service issues  • Create or revise user instructions, procedures, or manuals.  • Document help desk requests and resolutions.  • Install or repair network cables, including fiber optic cables.  • Provide telephone support related to networking or connectivity issues. Education Bachelors of Science in Computer Networking and IT Security in Computer Networking and IT Security Herzing University June 2009 to October 2012 Skills Active directory (7 years), Cisco (7 years), Cisco asa (7 years), Crm (4 years), Customer relationship management (7 years), customer service (10+ years), Dynamics (4 years), Exchange (7 years), Firewalls (7 years), Hyper-v (5 years), Microsoft dynamics (4 years), Microsoft exchange (Less than 1 year), Ms sql server (7 years), Noc (7 years), Quickbooks (4 years), Retail sales (4 years), scripting (5 years), server administration (7 years), Microsoft Excel (10+ years), Word (10+ years), Networking (8 years), System Admin, System Administrator, Linux, Vmware Certifications/Licenses ITIL v3 Foundation Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/slkrtpp4zfomezqz Technical Support — Expert May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/v8hzjtlyglzwy2 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS  Proficient in administration and troubleshooting of:    -Windows Server 2003/2008/2012/2016  -Windows XP/7/8/Vista/10  -Microsoft Exchange Servers  -HP and Cisco Routers/Switches  -Cisco ASA  -Hyper-V and VMware  -Various LOB applications (QuickBooks, Dynamics, etc)  -WatchGuard Firewalls  -Meraki and Unifi access points  -SQL server administration and troubleshooting  -PowerShell scripting  -Microsoft O365 administration w/Active Directory Connect  -Webroot and OpenDNS administration  -Cisco and Skype for Business VOIP  -StorageCraft and Veeam backup solutions  -Experience working in NOC handling customer cases in a timely manner with excellent customer service  -Utilizing Connectwise, Kaseya, Automate, and CRM    Ability to adapt and quickly learn any new product/service that I have encountered