Information Systems Administrator Information <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Information Systems Administrator - American Bath Group Phoenix, AZ Work Experience Information Systems Administrator American Bath Group October 2018 to Present I had the responsibility of supporting day to day operations for a wide range of technologies and end user support for over 100 local and remote users. Served as project lead in implementing new VoIP phone system.    ? Active Directory  ? Office 365  ? GPO Management  ? Data migration  ? Installed and configured PC hardware and software  ? Windows Server 2008, 12 & 16  ? VMWare  ? Enhanced the usability and effectiveness of all IT systems  ? PowerShell scripting  ? VoIP phone creation and configuration GIS Network Analyst Avnet January 2014 to July 2018 As a GIS Analyst I have been exposed to many facets of corporate infrastructure and have been able to learn deep knowledge of corporate network infrastructure. I was responsible for managing multiple GIS requests and projects within the global Data Center, along with collaborating with Network Engineers on various project needs.    ? Subject matter expert and primary administrator for Cisco WebEx, ShoreTel Mobility and Mutare voice-to-email transcription  ? Developed and maintained a knowledge base for all Avnet approved software and hardware  ? Led multi-member team of testing and deployment of upgraded Windows and Mac workstation images  ? Monitored and analyzed bandwidth utilization  ? Resolved LAN/WAN connectivity issues  ? ServiceNow ticket management and delegation    Blue Host Technical Support Specialist Endurance International Group April 2012 to October 2014 I had the responsibility of ticket triage, escalation and technical support via phone or email while meeting and exceeding expectations through metrics driven performance standards.    ? Performed root cause analysis and determine appropriate course of action.  ? Assist clients in downloading account monitoring software on Windows, Android, and iPhone devices.  ? Troubleshoot different aspects of client websites such as DNS records, FTP, WordPress SQL databases.  ? Used expertise to support across multiple Windows and Linux based web building platforms. Education Independence High School 2000