S.R Systems Administrator S.R <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems administrator - PAPA PITA BAKERY West Jordan, UT Highly motivated I.T administrator with experience configuring, monitoring, and maintaining systems. Eager to learn and confident in my ability to contribute to my future employer's business needs. Work Experience S.R Systems Administrator PAPA PITA BAKERY 2018 to Present Configured new MS Exchange server, created from scratch, New accounts, Forwarders, Rules, merging of old to new mailboxes as well as SPAM management.    Moved from basic file server to a controlled Synology solution with-in a MS Hypervisor environment    Manage and maintain Active directory, DNS, DHCP, IIS, Group Policy for over 300 End-users.  Implemented new phone system, company wide.    Implemented a new Aruba Network solution Manage daily activities of the I.T needs for the site, Over 300 end-users in multiple locations. Systems I.T Manager Xerox August 2010 to June 2018 Created and implemented a rolling 3-year strategic plan for the IT Department.    Managed software upgrade and merger of acquired company with existing enterprise systems with minimal disruption of services.    Initiated and implemented program for new company hires to introduce them to services provided by IT Department. Program included basic software training on company applications.    Designed and implemented a rolling 4 yr. hardware refresh program throughout the company.  Oversaw growth of IT Department Managed the daily activities of the IT team which consisted of Desktop technicians, System Administrators, Network Administrators and Developers.    Managed IT strategic planning, budgeting and policies for entire organization.    Migrated Complete site a little over 1200 computers from windows XP to windows 7.    Upgraded ESXi from version 6.0 to version 6.5 while keeping the VM's in maintenance mode.    Design, Implementation and Troubleshooting VMware ESXi 6.5 Hosts, VMware vSphere virtual center.    Administration of VMware ESX and ESXi Servers on HPBladeServersC7000 and C3000.    Skilled in updating / upgrading ESX servers and Virtual Center servers using VMware Update manager and manual upgrades.  Migrated physical Servers off server 2000/ 2003 to server 2008-2012.    Managed over 500+ VMware servers 2003, 2008 R2 and 2012 within a vSphere environment    Managed VPN access, and Active Directory by resetting passwords, unlocking accounts, adding users, as well as all Group policy.  Managed Microsoft Patch Tuesday's testing, deployment, and reporting, resulting in a 97% success rate.    Implemented a disaster recovery plan into the contract without increasing costs.    Administration and support for Symantec Corporate Anti-virus server.    Avaya PBX (VoIP),  Enhanced team productivity and automated repetitive tasks by using batch fil Education Associate in Information Systems ITT Technical Institute - Murray, UT September 2009 to November 2011 Skills Vmware, Servers (10+ years), Windows Xp, Windows 7, Active Directory (10+ years), DNS (8 years), Dhcp, Windows Server 2003, Windows Server 2008, windows server 2016, IIS, Esxi, Virtualization, Management, Exchange Server, Avaya, Citrix, Microsoft office, Inventory Management, Microsoft Word, Operations, Inventory, Word, Scheduling, training