Game Technology Administrator Game Technology <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Game Technology Administrator - Wind Creek Casino Montgomery Montgomery, AL To obtain a position where I can deliver strong analytical skills in a fast pace environment, technical and consulting skills that will be an asset to the company business operations, which will contribute to company growth and business functions. Work Experience Game Technology Administrator Wind Creek Casino Montgomery January 2016 to Present • Administer & maintain all gaming device database systems for accuracy.  • Update and made all slot changes within Bally Data Visualization Map Editor and Live Floor View for future projects.  • Monitor and Analyze floor communication, ensured accurate data within Bally Live Floor View System and Bally SDS.  • Coordinate and Manage slot related projects with game operations while being a liaison with property I.T. department, Game Operations, Finance, and Revenue Audit.  • Administered and Coordinated technology specific projects and tasks such as gaming machine software and hardware upgrades.  • Develop and analyze reports related to slot performance and increase revenue for company growth.  • Assist with investigations that deal with daily variances or other machine information discrepancies.  • Work effectively with all casino personnel and vendors to ensure guest satisfaction.  • Negotiated with vendors to decrease the amount of leased product that overall impacted and increased owned product.  • Oversee all Casino projects of game placements of new installations and signage for over 2,200 machines.  • Experience communicating verbally, in writing, and through email game notifications to inform all departments that were needed in each project. Communicated effectively and efficiently with outside vendors as well to make sure all needed components were on site to limit the amount of down time of games with all floor projects.  • Assist with department inventory of parts, software, and hardware for accuracy.  • Managed Budgets from month to month within the Game Performance & Repair Department to meet yearly budget expectations.  • Adhered to Tribal Internal Controls Standards (TICS) and MICS, Company and Departmental Expectations  • Develop clear scopes of work that contribute to projects meeting deadlines. Game Technician Wind Creek Casino Wetumpka October 2013 to January 2016 • Install game software.  • Maintain gaming machine hardware.  • Communicate effectively with vendors and guests.  • Repaired and solved technical gaming issues independently without assistance.  • Troubleshoot game systems technical inaccuracies. Supervisor of Security Systems Installations Montgomery Electronics & Communication Services January 2011 to October 2013 • Construct audio output/input connections.  • Installation of card readers, security systems, computer systems and software.  • Repair and troubleshoot electronic equipment.  • Supervised employees while installing security access systems for customer satisfaction. Education Master of Science in Information Systems Technology in Information Systems Technology South University Montgomery - Montgomery, AL February 2014 to June 2016 Bachelor of Science in Biology in Biology Alabama A & M University - Huntsville, AL May 2011