Systems Administrator Lead <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Lead Systems Administrator, Engineer, and Support Specialist Charlottesville, VA ? Systems Administrator, Systems/Network Engineer, and DevOps with over 12 years of professional experience in networked IT Infrastructure, systems architecture and roll-out, systems administration, network configuration, and hardware and software troubleshooting.  ? Deployed and configured Linux based appliances, Microsoft Server 2008, 2012, and 2016 products for various enterprise level clients. Managed Active Directory, VMware, Windows 2003/2008 servers, Windows 7 workstations, projects and deployments of ATMS software or software upgrades.  ? Set up and tested devices through ATMS system using MS Server 2012 with JBoss and SQL Server.  ? Able to adapt quickly to new technology to meet ever changing needs of institutions and users.  ? Well versed in traveling 400 - 600 miles per week for various clients. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Lead HTS/UVA Temps - Charlottesville, VA September 2018 to Present • Lead Systems Administrator for a research based social media and Point of Care medical application designed to help people with chronic or terminal illnesses support each other as well as receive care from physicians in order to maintain scheduled treatments and medicines.  • Head of a small team of support personnel responsible for both frontend and backend support of Linux based systems in an AWS environment..  • Spearheaded a project for building a systems and network monitoring solution to alert needed personnel of any issues outside of AWS monitoring solutions.  • Researched, tested, built, configured, and deployed a Nagios XI monitoring solution from the ground up.       • Actively utilized my knowledge of BASH scripting and MYSQL scripting to locate, analyze, and correct database issues for the application development team.  • Created and implemented an update schedule and maintenance policies for all critical systems used by the dev. team and all customer facing systems.  • Utilized networking and server knowledge to add and deploy various Linux based systems as well as Windows based virtual workstations in an AWS environment. Systems Administrator and Rapid Support Engineer Premier - Charlottesville, VA July 2017 to August 2018 Administered, supported, and maintained a proprietary Linux based appliance stack, both physical and virtual, with network, application, and hardware support.  ? Spearheaded a project for implementing a new Single Sign On (SSO) solution for our proprietary Linux-based appliance connecting with a Windows 2012 server environment utilizing AD and LDAP.  ? Exercised my use of BASH scripting and MYSQL scripting to locate, analyze, and correct database issues, recover missing HL7 data, and resend lost flat-files for external clients and for internal applications support.  ? Utilized command line management and monitoring tools in various environments including Linux, Windows Server 2008 to 2016, and OS X.  ? Utilized different networking tools such as VPN's, SecureTrasport, and a variety of other tools to support medical record retrieval on both client-side and application side. Quality Assurance Manager / Systems Admin. Parsons - Staunton, VA April 2013 to June 2016 Worked as the onsite liaison between the operations staff and the developers for software issues and enhancement requests. Worked alongside multiple vendors to gather regional based configurations to bring into a single data point to archive a statewide architecture.  ? Provided multi-layered troubleshooting support for Servers, Network and Application throughout the state. Utilized Microsoft SCCM tools for managing and configuring various virtual machine setups as well as operations workstations and training machines.  ? Deployed and configured an Advance Traffic Management System capable of controlling or interacting with multiple types of field devices. Configuration testing and communication reliability testing completed on each devices. Integrated Cisco VSOM video feeds and communication feeds into the ATMS application. Assisted in Statewide video latency and quality testing to ensure usability for operations and the public.  ? Mastered ticketing systems such as JIRA, SalesForce, Confluence, and MANTIS BT for project tracking, issue resolution, and point of contact for clients.  ? Worked with VDOT Transportation Operations Center to provide 24/7 support to the center. This included managing Active Directory, VMware environments, Windows 2003/2008 servers, Windows 7 workstations, managing projects and deployments of ATMS software or software upgrades.  ? Setup, configured, maintained backup systems, group policy management, Symantec Endpoint Protection, maintained system documentation and supported disaster recovery processes.  ? Responsible for supporting and troubleshooting a Cisco Physical Security installation supporting almost 200 remote cameras utilizing various communications ranging from CDMA modems to statewide resource shared fiber. Customer Service Technician Alere Informatics - Charlottesville, VA April 2012 to April 2013 Worked with all levels of employees, from the CEO to volunteers, to resolve front-line hardware and software problems. This included traveling 400 - 600 miles per week to five major hospitals supporting over 400 physicians' offices to repair HP/Canon LaserJet's, Color LaserJet's and Multifunction printers.  ? Responsible for repairing Dell and IBM laptops, Dell PCs, troubleshooting wireless networks, testing and configuring wired networks, configuring APC's and their respective networks. Ensures all technologies communicate with company servers and proprietary software systems.  ? Mastered ticketing systems such as JIRA, SalesForce, Confluence, and MANTIS BT for project tracking, issue resolution, and point of contact for clients. Worked as a second-level support for the Technology Service Center to diagnose problems for field technicians and various server applications.  ? Provided remote support for hardware and software diagnostics, setup and managed Avaya switch technology as well as creating and updating voicemail systems, collaborated with coworkers to resolve tickets in other levels, and provided training for new service center analysts.  ? Provided VPN and Citrix remote support for physicians and third-party software companies. Often worked evening shift alone and was responsible for diagnosing network and device problems for all supported hospitals.  ? Troubleshot, installed and password resets on multiple clinical and non-clinical applications, assisting clinical and non-clinical staff with Citrix session issues, and working in the Project Request Form Database to obtain approvals and route project requests in a timely manner.  ? Provided account security and password support for Novell, Active Directory, and UNIX systems. Other duties included assisting VPN users with Cisco and Juniper VPN systems to resolve telecommuting and connections issues. Network Engineer & Desktop Support Technician Computer Wizards Inc, LLC - Charlottesville, VA November 2009 to April 2012 Set up and maintained large and small WI-FI and LAN networks for small businesses, doctors' offices, and homes. Duties included office PC repair, home PC repairs, upgrades, virus removal, and spyware removal for customers.  ? Repaired an extensive variety of cell phone, tablet, TV, and game console screens, drives, CPU's, and various other parts. Mastered ticketing systems such as JIRA, SalesForce, Confluence, and MANTIS BT for project tracking, issue resolution, and point of contact for clients.  ? Maintained upkeep of technology and inventory, stocked items on shelves, and provided outstanding customer service in all PC, networking, and software training aspects. Education AS Computer Science for Transfer in Computer Science Piedmont Virginia Community College - Charlottesville, VA August 2009 to May 2012 BS Computer Information Systems in Computer Science ITT Technical Institute-Richmond - Richmond, VA August 2006 to May 2008 Bachelor's Skills Vmware, System Administrator, Linux, Active Directory, System Admin, DevOps (2 years), Linux Administrator, Redhat, Red Hat, SCCM, Kronos (2 years), Systems Engineer (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified October 2010 to Present Network+ March 2011 to Present Security+ April 2012 to Present ACiT December 2011 to Present Dell Certified Repair Tech August 2011 to Present HP Certified Repair Tech August 2011 to Present Server+ May 2014 to Present Assessments Customer Service Skills — Highly Proficient October 2018 Measures a candidate's skill in evaluating approaches to customer service & satisfaction. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ohouczy8xz71yj7i Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.