Cyber Infrastructure Systems Engineer Cyber Infrastructure <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Cyber Infrastructure Systems Engineer - Army - RCC-P Kailua, HI Work Experience Cyber Infrastructure Systems Engineer Army - RCC-P - Honolulu, HI March 2019 to Present • Configured, deployed and managed systems for Intrusion Detection / Prevention Systems (IDS/IPS).  • Monitored, maintained and deployed Red Hat & CentOS Linux Servers. Including improving systems for administration, updates, developing new processes, and training team members.  • Team lead for infrastructure system preparations for Network Defense Accreditation and compliance  including STIGs, remediation, building of required systems/processes, creating supporting  documentation and procedures.  • Redesigned procedures and systems for tactical sensor/server deployment resulting in a 550% increase  in speed to deployment.  • Installed, maintained and documented the physical configuration of all information systems  (software/hardware, control current versions and future releases of applications software) within the RCC-P. Created 'cut-sheet' infographic document styling to rapidly document system information and  increase knowledge sharing. Torch Technologies - Ford Island, HI August 2016 to September 2018 Cubic Global Defense, Ford Island, HI (December 2014 - August 2016) Senior Systems Engineer September 2012 to September 2018 Booz Allen Hamilton - Ford Island, HI September 2012 to May 2014 • Designed and implemented complete multi-domain architecture for new classified network.  • Utilized industry security tools to detect and mitigate security vulnerabilities in operating systems such as Windows, Linux, and IOS devices; applied DISA STIGs to Windows and Unix devices.  • Gathered system requirements for end-to-end IT solutions from internal and external customers as well  as requirements management and requirements traceability frameworks. Designed and orchestrated  technology studies to meet requirements and produce high yield best cost-benefit IT infrastructure and engineering services for network infrastructure with a focus on end-user performance and Network  Operations Center applications using analytical prowess, attention to detail and over 10 years of IT  experience.  • Automated AutoCAD using LISP scripts to increase project workflow and automate BOM generation.  • Developed document automation for various documents and reports, which resulted in over 1000 hours  of time savings. Dev Ops Administrator Army Corps of Engineers - HQ - Washington, DC March 2012 to September 2012 Designed, developed, implemented, and administered IT CIE instances of Microsoft SharePoint and Project Server 2010, including all backend database and Windows Server components. Management of  policies, groups and user accounts, management of SharePoint sites and site collections, management of search and indexing functions and system, user functional troubleshooting, and Webparts/ODC design.  • Consulted with HQ customers to create web-based solutions for internal and external collaboration  capability.  • Migrated large site collections to new enterprise server stack. Enterprise System Administrator Federal Bureau of Investigation - HQ - Washington, DC September 2011 to March 2012 Monitored Worldwide Server and Network Operations, analyzed performance, and coordinate with FBI  Field Offices to restore functionality to remote sites.  • Maintained Backup Systems. Including file- system recoveries and library management.  • Managed Group Policy, DHCP and DNS. IT Specialist Planned Systems International - Columbia, MD August 2010 to September 2011 • Installed, configured and maintained Dell R710 Servers running Windows Server 2008.  • Active Directory and Exchange Administration.  • Network Device, firewall, anti-spam configuration and life cycle management.  • Created and maintained company Intranet and SharePoint sites including content management.  • IT solution acquisition. Senior Help Desk Technician Federal Bureau of Investigation - HQ - Washington, DC September 2009 to August 2010 Consulted with Emergency Operation Center employees to create troubleshooting and standard  operating documents and created a collaboration portal to host and disseminate the documents.  • Provide technical support for over 50,000 FBI employees worldwide.  • Served as senior point of contact for resolving complex software and account issues.  • Utilized BMC Remedy trouble ticket reporting system for trouble ticket resolution.