Systems Administrator for two 2019 Startups <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> for two 2019 Startups Systems Administrator for two 2019 Startups - NextPCS Telecommunications San Diego, CA Systems Administrator with 8+ years experience in the analytics industry with a background in network engineering, site reliability, systems infrastructure and analytical sciences. Proven success in resolving complex problems ultimately contributing to enterprise level security and efficiency. Work Experience Systems Administrator for two 2019 Startups NextPCS Telecommunications and Onsite Telecommunications - San Diego, CA January 2019 to Present ? Playing a crucial role in product scoping, roadmap, and architecture discussions  ? Working closely with CEO to deliver on scalable automation strategy across infrastructure products and features  ? Perform daily systems monitoring as well as provide 24/7 production support SITE RELIABILITY ENGINEER FICO April 2018 to January 2019 Develop software scripts and AWS configurations to create an organized platform for massive scale software deployments and maintain those deployments through low level troubleshooting.  ? Zabbix Monitoring and configuration  ? Experienced with JBoss, Tomcat, Apache HTTP Server, MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle 11 and Oracle RAC, Powershell & Unix shell, Microsoft Server, Jenkins and Config Management in Multiplatform environments  ? Primary point of contact and on call resource for teams of system administrators and system engineers to solve complex problems and execute solutions.  ? Single point of contact for Product and Account Managers to resolve client inquiries and service level agreements. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Cortechs Labs Inc August 2014 to April 2018 Maintained network and data security for critical healthcare systems, contributing to the overhaul security of sensitive patented materials and patient health information.  ? Completed a solo project to overhaul the company's data and security infrastructure building out LDAP and raid storage servers.  ? Engaged in highly detailed infrastructural cost analysis and deployment through the utilization of cloud computing via Docker and AWS compute clusters.  ? Deployment of system configurations via Puppet for installation consistency  ? Independently provided complex mathematical solutions using Generalized Additive Modeling in R.  ? Recognized by upper management for being a key contributor to the organization's overall technological advancement goals.  ? Built Network Attached Storage (NAS) for all of organization's archived data and active files.  ? Regularly worked with Samba, storage shares, ACL's access control lists, Nagios/AWS Cloudwatch monitoring, and Active Directory. Solely responsible for site reliability supporting a Java, Python and Apache environment.  ? Conceptualized and implemented the expansion of vital infrastructure, employing the most cost effective resources in a timely manner. SERVER INFRASTRUCTURE ENGINEER Skynet 360 Inc June 2013 to August 2015 Maintained upper and lower layers of load balanced, highly available, and geographic-redundant clustered platforms through the use of resource monitoring applications such as Cacti, Nagios, Pacemaker, Collectd and Corosync.  ? Provided database replication solutions, remote infrastructure installation and onsite colocation maintenance.  ? Managed VirtualBox instances and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  ? Server side scripting utilizing node.js, socket.io, and Bash. Configure network storage systems, host based firewalls, iptables, and access control lists.  ? Apache / Tomcat configuration.  ? Deployed, configured, and tuned LAMP servers. INFRASTRUCTURE ENGINEER NetSapiens Inc February 2012 to August 2014 Led projects involving performance tuning and security testing, applied security patches and tested custom firewall scripts. log analysis.  ? Provided database replication solutions, remote infrastructure installation and onsite colocation maintenance.  ? Provided consultation for network topology to clients while troubleshooting existing networks  ? Coded installation scripts for various OS and storage topologies BUSINESS DATA ANALYST Underground Elephant January 2012 to May 2012 Compiled business data and maintained a 15GB database with update scripts, table merges, and views.  ? Performed statistical analyses on key cost and revenue data.  ? Built graphic interfaces for vital performance metrics and instantaneous decision feedback.  ? Jointly developed a target population scoring model in a MATLAB environment. Education Bachelor of Science in Mathematics University of California San Diego - San Diego, CA March 2011 Skills DNS, NAGIOS, PUPPET, TCP/IP, DATABASE ADMINISTRATION, DATABASE, MYSQL, REPLICATION, DOCKER, NODE.JS, JENKINS, SCRIPTING, LINUX, LDAP, SWITCHING, TCP, LOG FILE, SSL, DEPLOYMENT, BASH Additional Information SKILLS    ? OS: Linux, Windows, MacOS, infrastructural maintenance and deployment.  ? DB: MySQL database administration, replication, DB migration, redundancy  ? Proficient: MySQL, LDAP, MATLAB, R, Puppet configuration deployment/management, analysis on large data sets, TCP/IP routing/switching, log file analysis, troubleshooting, Bash scripting, AWS, iptables and DNS, Sonicwall, Puppet, Jenkins, Windows Server, SSL configuration, Nagios/Cacti/Zabbix configuration and monitoring  ? Functional: python, .m (Matlab), node.js, Docker  ? Misc.: 7+ years experience in providing 24x7 operational on-call support; Trilingual