Network Administrator/Implementation Specialist Network <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Implementation Specialist Network/ Systems Engineer Portland, OR Dedicated to detailed excellence and continuous improvement Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator/Implementation Specialist Interactive Northwest, Inc January 2017 to February 2019 Network Administrator/Implementation Specialist  Responsible for keeping our network in efficient working order as well as managing ESXi lab and provisioning  hosts. Each of our 4 lab hosts are used to house virtual machines that our developers use as a platform to develop and test customer applications. Additionally our Quality Control team uses these machines to test call flow paths  for a customer's specific set up.    ? Leverage Nessus scanning to find and remediate vulnerabilities on our local network  ? Upgrade ESXi hosts to version 6.5 from 5.5  ? Troubleshoot Networking issues with Cisco gear as well as Red Hat virtual servers  ? Build, configure and maintain our lab virtual machines  ? Test hardware before deployment to our local network  ? Assess, maintain and repair lab hardware to ensure continuous availability for our team Systems Administrator Farmer Brothers Coffee November 2015 to January 2017 Responsible for all technical needs at the Portland, OR roasting and production facility for Farmer  Brothers. I am responsible for everything that attaches to our network. This includes roughly 70 users,  11 production lines, and a myriad of production related systems. Any and all network concerns for the Portland facility run through me, including being on call 24 hours a day, 5 days a week. I began at  Farmer Brothers by immediately identifying security concerns and proposing steps to resolve them.    ? Audit VLANs for security vulnerabilities  ? Configure networked devices for use on the production floor  ? Upgrade and maintain all systems used at the Portland production facility  ? Program Cisco switches  ? Discover issues with backup system and advise solutions  ? Recommends upgrades, patches, and new applications and equipment  ? Coordinate and advise outside contractors Systems Administrator West Music Company April 2013 to August 2015 As an integral part of a 3 person IT department I was responsible for securing, troubleshooting and maintenance of all networking related systems. Additionally I share in the responsibility of managing  our corporate infrastructure through programming changes to enterprise level switches, namely our HP  Procurve 2600's as well as planning and ordering any changes to site routers.    ? Telnet in to program access level switches for deployment at all 7 West Music locations  ? Configure VLAN access through firewalls as per the network design  ? Configure VPN sessions to allow users access to our network remotely  ? Allow remote gateway access to our local network through our on-site gateway server  ? Assist in the design of Access Control Lists for use by our ISP on our MPLS  ? Assist in the redesign of our ip subnetting scheme  ? Install professional level network cabling to bring a recently purchased store online  ? Research and propose solutions to how we handle mobile device management  ? Upgrade domain controllers from Server 2003 R2 to Server 2012 R2  ? Responsible for creating, maintaining and enforcing active directory permissions and auditing  and documentation of group policies  ? Maintain a network of over 200 users, over 400 user accounts, and over 300 computers  ? Utilize PowerShell scripting to save time in various administrative tasks including the automation of user additions and deletions  ? Responsible for the management and maintenance of West Music Company's IT infrastructure  equipment, including over 20 servers both virtual and physical  ? Build, maintain and secure our Office 365 intranet and SharePoint site, including the migration  from our original SharePoint WSS 3.0 site  ? Work with Microsoft partner to migrate our users to Office 365 Enterprise plans  ? Troubleshoot and document issues pertaining to Microsoft products such as Microsoft Office  Suite  ? Troubleshoot networking and software issues via phone and the use of Microsoft's Remote  Desktop Systems Administrator/Remote Support Specialist Titronics R & D - Network March 2010 to April 2013 Responsible for securing every aspect of our onsite LAN, as well as supporting our products  with customers in the field  ? Design and implement the Local Area Network topology, including programming our  Cisco 1841 router  ? Implement an off-site backup and disaster recovery plan  ? Test off-site backup plan for efficiency and efficacy  ? Test disaster recovery plan and fine tune the process for efficiency  ? Teach customer support specialists to quickly and effectively solve customer technical issues  regarding the company's custom software  ? Build, administer and maintain a small office network environment including interfacing with various broadband and online PBX companies  ? Assist both internal and external customers with Windows related troubleshooting  ? Interface with hosting providers to verify safety and security of our external website  ? Configure our VoIP services and troubleshoot any hardware and software issues  ? Implement on-site policies to mitigate potential internal damage caused by employees and guests to the site  ? Regularly troubleshoot on site issues with custom software as well as maintaining databases for said software  ? Conduct a voluntary BSA audit Education A.A.S. in Local Area Network Management Kirkwood Community College - Cedar Rapids, IA June 2009 to May 2013 Bachelor's in Communication Studies University of Iowa - Iowa City, IA August 2003 to December 2007 Skills Windows Server (9 years), Linux (2 years), Networking (9 years), Active Directory, Comptia Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ CompTIA Network+ CompTIA Security+ Cisco Certified Entry Networking Technician (CCENT) Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) July 2019 to August 2022 Assessments Technical Support Skills — Expert March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nlp4xi-heay4ztxw Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.