Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer - Nestle/Purina Powell, TN Experienced engineer with a background in software and infrastructure. My recent  experience includes tool development, system design, cloud infrastructure, and  software delivery (process and tooling). Work Experience Systems Engineer Nestle/Purina August 2018 to Present I work as part of a 2 person team supporting petfinder.com, a pet adoption  platform with 10-12m unique visitors a day.    ? Led a rewrite of the automated pet import system. Replaced the previous  scheduled based system that took 18-24 hours to import all shelter pets, to an event based system that imports most pets in less than 60 seconds from the time they hit our system.  ? Designed and led implementation of new trunk-based development workflow  and CI pipeline for 3rd party development agency.  ? Implemented chat automation to provide end user services that previously  required technical staff intervention.  ? Led evaluation and initial deployment of Kubernetes. Chef Software - Software Engineer March 2016 to August 2018 I joined Chef as a member of the Customer Engineering team, before transitioning to Core Engineering in 9/2017.    Core Engineering:  ? Worked on the Sustaining Engineering team, supporting a range of server  and client side apps.  ? Server-side tools maintained include Chef Automate 1.x, Chef Server, chef-backend and Chef push jobs server.  ? Served as primary engineer on project to integrate the Workflow (CI tool)  component of Automate 1 into Automate 2.  ? Responsible for CI pipelines for maintained products.    Customer Engineering:  ? Provided guidance/coaching to Chef customers around the topics of CI/CD, infrastructure automation and compliance.  ? Implemented customer requested product fixes and features.    ? Served as team subject matter expert on application automation, container  technology, secrets management and AWS. Senior DevOps Engineer PhishMe Software July 2015 to March 2016 Led rewrite/expansion of configuration management (Chef) as part of migration from co-location to AWS.  ? Designed and implemented integration and deployment pipelines for infrastructure (Chef/CloudFormation/Terraform).  ? Mentored other team members in learning Chef. Senior Systems Engineer Peak Hosting February 2015 to July 2015 Took over as primary monitoring engineer for the internal systems  engineering team.  ? Designed distributed Nagios system spanning into customer environments.  ? Authored several custom monitoring scripts. Cloud/ Systems Engineer Scripps Networks Interactive November 2012 to February 2015 Chef Digital Cloud Engineering group 2014 to 2014 2014).    System Operations:  ? Led initial internal implementation of Chef for configuration management.  ? Served as primary SME on Linux systems and development/automation  efforts.  ? Led the migration of the Food Network UK platform to AWS.    Cloud Engineering:  ? Rewrote legacy deployment automation from a disparate collection of scripts to an integrated Chef/CloudFormation solution.  ? Promoted an Infrastructure as Code mindset, pushing for increased code  review, testing and pipelining of infrastructure code.  ? Mentored others in learning Chef/CloudFormation. Systems Administrator Union College November 2011 to November 2012 primary decision maker September 2010 to August 2011 September 2010 - August 2011  ? Led systems design and engineering efforts for migrating from externally  hosted learning management to an internally managed solution.  ? Served as primary decision maker for selecting systems related products, including virtualization platform, storage and hardware.  ? Executed the design and configuration of a highly available Moodle-based  stack to support all of Union College's online learning initiatives.    Further employment history available on request. Education Master in Applied Computing in Applied Computing Eastern Kentucky University Bachelor in Computer Networking in Computer Networking Eastern Kentucky University Skills Linux, Chef, Docker, Jenkins, Ruby, Elasticsearch, Redis, Mysql, Postgresql, Packer Additional Information SKILLS  Go, Ruby, Elixir, AWS, Terraform, Packer, Linux, Chef, InSpec, Docker,  Kubernetes, Software build and delivery tools (Jenkins/GitLab/GitHub),  Postgresql/Mysql, Elasticsearch, Redis, continuous learning and problem  solving.