Infastructure Administrator 3 Infastructure <span class="hl">Administrator</span> 3 Infastructure Engineer Fort Worth, TX Work Experience Infastructure Administrator 3 HD Vest Financial Services - Irving, TX March 2019 to Present Create, modify, delete user and resource mailboxes, Recover deleted items in a user mailbox  Set up an archive and deletion policy for mailboxes in our Office 365  Set up mailbox features such as the mailbox sharing policy: Create a shared mailbox so a group of people can monitor and send email from a common email address Create external contacts to represent people outside CBP in the shared address book  Mobile Device Management – Maintain AirWatch, Configuring and using Intune for replacement. Creating policies and pushing out updates  Office 365 email anti-spam protection and malware filters for our organization  SharePoint – Access support and form creation  Distribution and maintenance of licensing  Troubleshoot Exchange incidents, such as ActiveSync Synchronization Problems, DNS, Outlook web options, etc.  Monitor and maintain Server backups. Mainly using Veeam, SQL and Backup Exec.  Change Out tapes when data is full  Server control using F5 and troubleshooting as needed  Okta and Zendesk Admin – assigning and configuring access  Implementing weekly patches and distributing reports  VMware- Maintenance and monitoring Virtual machines creation upon request  Creation of KB’s for team – Training Helpdesk  Running PowerShell scripts for reporting purposes or to make changes to system  Resolving tickets that are escalated from other teams – office items and server request.  Active Directory Configuration – User and setting modifications  Mcafee Antivirus administration  SCCM – image updates and software updates. Adding or removing devices per helpdesk  Networking – Configuring and assigning network ports per ip range and dns  Project Management – Office Migration and integration projects Systems Analyst Concentra - Addison, TX August 2017 to March 2019 Respond to requests for technical assistance in on site visits email or ticketing  Ticketing system used: Service Now  Diagnose and resolve hardware issues and software issues – Printers, Cell phones Laptops and desktops, iPads and windows based tablets, signature pads  Diagnose software issues - Windows 7 and 10, Office365 products, Medical Software support -Allscripts, Form Fox  Manage Projects- Clinic improvement, device upgrades, software upgrades to company  Active Directory – creating users, resetting passwords, creating distributions groups. Adjusting Group Policy  Imaging devices using Landesk and MDT  HPDM Server management – pushing packages and updates, Sorting and maintenance of devices  Network troubleshooting – Solar Winds for network monitoring, Wireless configurations and setting static ips for devices  Cisco Any connect configuration with Duo Access  Remote desktop – Bomgar or Remote Desktop  Printer Configuration – Zebra, HP, Kyocera, Ricoh - configuration and set up Via TCP/IP and static ip configuration for company user  Helping all levels of users from executives to lower levels  Citrix maintenance and troubleshooting – configuring programs resetting user profiles Freight Handler FedEx - Fort Worth, TX May 2015 to August 2017 Forklift operators and freight handler. IT Support Specialist Baymark Health Services - Lewisville, TX January 2017 to July 2017 • Respond to requests for technical support assistance in via phone and email, Onsite at local clinics support, On call one week a month  • Remote desktop - Simple Help and Team Viewer  • Diagnose and resolving of all technical issues. Ticketing systems used Spice Works and Zoho agent  • Ordering of new hardware and set per user specification  • Hardware support - Break fix repairing or replacing equipment - laptops, desktops, tablets  • Printer and Label maker (Datamax or Zebra) configuration and set up Via TCP/IP and static ip configuration for company user  • Monitoring network using Nagios configuration.  • Software Installiation via images or upd program for devices connected to Active Directory  • Mcafree policy updates and installation and configuration on all company devices  • Medical software configuration and installation (Samms and Mthasoft)  • Active Directory - creating users, resetting passwords, creating distributions groups. Adjusting Group Policy  • Windows Server 2003 - 2008 configuring server for user access and mappings  • Configure hardware, peripherals, services, settings, directories, storage.  • Microsoft Exchange Adminstrator - email configuration and user configuration.  • Maintaining user environment of about 5,000 plus employees. IT Administrator Sws Environmental - Fort Worth, TX August 2016 to January 2017 • Respond to requests for technical support assistance in via phone, email or in person  • Remote desktop and Onsite support for local office - Team Viewer, Join.me, LogMeIn and Sysaid agent  • Diagnose and resolving of all technical issues. Ticketing systems used Xendesk and Sysaid agent  • Purchasing of new hardware and set per user specification  • Maintain company cell phone budget and monitors usage and purchase handles distribution of phones and other mobile devices  • Hardware support - Break fix repairing or replacing equipment - laptops, desktops, tablets  • Network Configuration - Monitoring network use configuring access point and network devices setting up offices and pinging network ports for use.  • Printer Configuration - Managing Printer server. Installing device packages and pushing out per Group Policy  • Citrix maintenance and troubleshooting - configuring programs and user profiles over for Citrix Configuration of Citrix to work on mobile devices. Refreshing of user profiles for cleanup purposes  • Active Directory - creating users, resetting passwords, creating distributions groups. Adjusting Group Policy  • Windows Server 2003 - 2008- Xendesk agent for Citrix. Maintaining and using VM for configuration to storing files. Set up print server for company. Server maintenance  • Website creation and maintenance - Created company intranet page, maintain page by adding self-troubleshooting and how to guides. Monthly updates for company directory and new  • Office 365 - Admin control purchasing and assigning licenses or redistribution of license per user sync with Active Directory  • SharePoint Maintenance and cleanup - adding forms - Access request and monitoring  • Reimaging Hardware via Fog Linux server. - Windows 7 and 10  • Maintaining user environment of about 500 employees. Systems Administrator Christus Health - Irving, TX June 2015 to June 2016 • Respond to requests for technical support assistance in via phone and email  • Remote desktop - Bomgar and WebEx  • Diagnose and resolve technical hardware and software issues - Dymo Label printers, Ingenico Credit card and check scanners, Dymo card readers  • Configure hardware, peripherals, services, settings, directories, storage, etc. in accordance with standards and project/operational requirements  • Form creation and maintained current forms listed with in Athena website and via HTML5 and SharePoint.  • Website based Active Directory use - Password resets, changing and adding access for users, creation of new users and terminations.  • Perform daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware, systems and key processes, reviewing system and application logs, and verifying completion of scheduled jobs such as backups  • Perform regular file archival and purge as necessary.  • Perform periodic performance reporting to support capacity planning.  • Maintain data center environmental and monitoring equipment.  • Ticket creation per issue - Access database and Service now  • Worked with multiple insurance websites - Medicaid, Humana and many more  • Main application that was user was Athena - Maintain system tablespaces, created departments and updated and corrected multiple fee and allowable schedules. Troubleshoot Athena across multiple platforms  • operated as SME for Athena Health and SharePoint form creation  • Worked as level 1 to level 3 support for thousands of users E-Commerce Specialist Mckesson - Fort Worth, TX January 2014 to June 2015 Special Project Team and SME  • Pharmacy mobile device support - scanners and palm pilot devices  • Respond to requests for technical support assistance in via phone and email  • Diagnose and resolve technical hardware and software issues  • Password resets  • Adding and removing user access to website  • Follow standard help desk procedures - Emailing new or current clients and contacting via phone for implementations, handling inbound appointments  • Network assistance - Firewall issues, Port issues and Third Party filtering troubleshooting adding and removing of ports and IP addresses  • Website Support - error messages adjusting browser settings- IE, Firefox and Google Chrome  • Remote desktop - WebEx, GoToAssist and Join.me  • Software training - Programs such as Java Settings and Adobe air settings. Installing and uninstalling programs for compatibility with website and products that McKesson uses.  • Minor Command Prompt adjustments - IP configurations to batch files  • VPN install and setups - Cisco soft phone troubleshooting  • CRM SAP ticketing system use  • Call Center Experience handling up to almost 40 to 50 call a day for thousands of users  • User of Microsoft office 2010 - 2013 tools- Outlook- schedule meetings, Word, Excel - creating spreadsheets and reports for customers and employees and PowerPoint  • User support - handling customers such as hospitals, chain pharmacies and small pharmacies.  • Working with account mangers to set up new users and employees with access to website  • Handling more than hundred thousand customers across the United States  • Work with DEA to get secure documentation and certificates for narcotic pharmaceutical ordering Help Desk Analyst One Touch Direct - Tampa, FL April 2013 to October 2013 • Special Project Team lead - Maintained group of 6 users  • Respond to requests for technical assistance in person, via phone, electronically  • Diagnose and resolve technical hardware and software issues - IBM POS systems and Windows XP through Windows 7  • Research questions using available information resources  • Follow standard help desk procedures  • Active Directory use - password resets, user access changes  • Avaya Phone Use  • Reimaging - Computers and IBM POS Systems  • Network and server troubleshooting - Ping server connections enabling IP addresses to connect to server  • VPN install and set up  • Remote desktop  • Utility use for configuring network connections, configuring printers and workstations.  • Hardware troubleshooting - keyboards, monitors, printers, handheld scanners and palm pilots Education Bachelors in Information in technology University of phoenix - Phoenix, AZ 2011 to 2013 University of Phoenix, Axia College 2009 to 2011 Skills Active Directory (2 years), C# (Less than 1 year), Java (1 year), MICROSOFT SHAREPOINT (1 year), SharePoint (1 year) Additional Information SKILLS  Web design, Java, VB.Net, C#.net., HTML 5 and PHP. SharePoint, Active Directory, Windows Server