System Administrator <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator - SONY - California Phoenix, AZ • Microsoft Server VMware Nutanix Technology Professional having 8+years of I.T. experience in Windows Server 2003/2008/2012/2016, VMware ESXi 3/4/5/5.5/6.0/6.5, Hyper-V CISCO Switches and F5 Big-IP Load Balancers.  • Expertise on installation, configuration and administration of Windows NT/2000/2003/2008/2012 R2 and 2016 servers on HP/Compaq, Dell Power Edge, CISCO UCS hardware platforms.  • Expertise in advanced features of ESX/ESXi 4/5/6/6.5, vMotion, Storage vMotion, HA, DRS, and Update Manage  • Experience working on Change Management, Request Management and Incident Management in Service Center/Remedy/BMC Footprints.  • Expertise in WINS, DNS, DHCP and Active Directory services in Windows 2003/2008/2012 R2 and 2016 servers.  • Systems Administration experience in Solaris and Linux (SUSE 10/11 and Red Hat 5/6).  • Experience in Implementing and Administration of Active Directory Services, replication, Trust Relationship and Enforcing Domain Group Policy.  • Managed Citrix XenApp 6 on Windows 2008 Server Environment.  • Good experience in Blade server hardware, RAID, Microsoft Windows Clusters. Compaq / HP /Cisco UCS Blade Server hardware maintenance. HP Insight Manager, UCS Manager.  • Worked in large complex directory environments with experience supporting Windows 2003/2008/2012 R2 and 2016 Active Directory (AD).  • Maintain internal servers, network, and workstations.  • Repair and replace internal hardware & Assist with on-premise server migration  • Hands on experience with scripting tools (Power shell and Python).  • Experience in resolving all levels of Severity Tickets, root cause investigations, system outages.  • Experience with Managing user profiles and groups in AD.  • Proficient Experience in installation and configuration of VMware ESX/ESXi 4.0/4.1/5.0/5.5/6.5, vSphere Client 4.0/4.0/5.0/5.1/5.5, vSphere web client 6.5, VMware Virtual Center 4.0/5.0/5.5.  • Experience in configuring VMware CPU and memory shares for virtual machines.  • Experience in building VMware virtual machines from templates and CD/ISO image.  • Experience in server patching and MFD printer deployment, TSM back up management in window server 2003/2008/2012 R2 and 2016R2 environments.  • Hands on experience with veritas backup exec16 and EMC Avamar backup tools.  • Experience with Microsoft Exchange Server 2007 and 2010.  • Installed and Configured WIN, DNS, DHCP, IIS and Terminal Services.  • Administration of VMware Virtual Center and virtualization services VMware DRS, VMware HA, Vmotion and Svmotion.  • Expert knowledge on configuring hardware iSCSI and NFS storage to VMware ESX (i) hosts from vSphere client.  • Experience in cloning VMs and deploy new virtual machines from clones.  • Experience in configuring VMware standard vSwitch& dvSwitch.  • Converted many (P2V) physical servers to Virtual Machines using VMware vCenter Converter part of decommission legacy servers effort.  • Provided 24/7 On Call production support onsite and remotely on rotation basis. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Administrator SONY - California September 2018 to Present RESPONIBILITIES:    • Installed, Maintained windows server 2003/2008 R2/2012 R2 on HP and UCS Hardware Platforms.  • Worked on providing 3rd Level support for 1000+ Windows 2003/2008 Servers.    • Be part of a project team that include many moving parts in a server migration.  • Install and configure new server/application components to mirror existing production serve  • Automate task like deployment of servers with configurations, security expectations, and software module install with PowerShell.  • Assist clients with support request by using in-house ticketing System. Escalate to a higher resource depending on severity, and importance. Assist those that escalate to a network/install resource.  • Build servers with Raid Configuration RAID 5 and Raid 1+0on HP ProLiant DL380, 360, 580, ML370 servers.  • Worked on Change Management, Request Management and Incident Tickets in Service Center.  • Implemented and enabled cloud infrastructure using vCloud Automation Center to facilitate all the necessities of the customer Configuring windows firewall settings using group policy.  • Experience in migrating the virtual machines between the ESX (i) Hosts using cloud migration and VMotion.    • Helped in auditing Datacenter Inventory in the process of Data center migration  • Extensively managed Active Directory like all the problems related to user accounts, domain accounts, managing permissions etc.  • Experience in Remote deployment of Microsoft Windows 2003/2008 servers using Altiris deployment solution or manual installation of a server using ILO for remote connection to a server.  • Maintaining servers with latest security updates, critical patches, anti-virus, and backup  • Maintaining Print servers, Application servers and File Servers.  • Decommissioning of windows servers, including the disk wipes and drilling the hard disks depending on client requirements for each server.  • Experience in configuring Microsoft Load balancer (NLB) for Web Servers and Applications servers to distribute load and High Availability.  • Experience in Remote deployment of Windows 2000/2003 servers using Altiris deployment solution or manual installation of a server using RSA/RILO for remote connection to a server.  • Build 200+ VMware vSphere hosts and added to new/existing VMware Clusters.  • Experience on creating new VMware Clusters with HA and DRS enabled.  • Virtualized 50+  • Building new VMware virtual machines to meet the specifications provided by the client.  • Experience in deploying new Virtual Machines from OVF/OVA templates.  • Creating Roles and permissions in VMware ESX Server 3.0/3.5/4.0  • Work with storage team to create LUNs/NFS and Map it to VMware vSphere ESX (i) hosts.  • Experience in migrating VMware vSphere hosts from ESX 3.5 U2 to 4.0 and ESX (i) 4.1 to    ESX (i) 5.0.  • Migrated VMware ESX 3.5 u2 to ESX 4.0 using VMware update Manager.  • Experience on hot and cold clone process.  • Installed/updated patches on VMware ESX (i) hosts using VMware Update Manager tool.  • Updated VMware tools on virtual machines using Update Manager tool.  • Provided 24/7 On Call support onsite and remotely on rotation basis. Windows Server Administrator/VMware Engineer MERCEDES BENZ, Michigan August 2015 to September 2018 RESPONIBILITIES:  • Responsible for maintaining and supporting 2000+ servers with about 5000+ users in Mercedes Benz.  • Installing and Maintaining Windows 2003, 2008 R2 and 2012 R2 and 2016 Servers in virtual and physical environment.  • Worked on Domain retirement and Server decommissioning projects to clean up the Active Directory.  • Migrated Virtual Servers from host to host and host to cluster, installed the security certificates on Servers and Monitoring the System logs on production Servers etc.    • Worked on Undelete 10 software to recover the deleted files from servers and minimizing the data loss in Environment.  • Hands on experience with Condusiv technologies (Diskeeper & V-LOCITY) latest versions DK16 and V-LOCITY 6.2.128.0 to eliminate the I/O data and improve system performance.  • Working Experience with Active Directory Components (AD Users and Computers, DNS, DHCP and WINS etc.).  • Maintained and supported a Citrix XenApp 4, 5, and 6 environments on Microsoft Windows 2003 and 2008 platforms using virtual and physical server hardware with (400+) concurrent users and (50+) servers.  • Management and Administration of Windows Server Update Service (WSUS).  • Hands on experience with vSphere Client 5.5 and vSphere web client 6.5, performed day to day operations across Host, Cluster& VM level at Mercedes Benz.  • Hands on Experience in installation and configuration of VMware ESXi hosts (6.0 & 6.5) on UCS hardware.  • Hands on experience with Exchange management console, created mail box accounts for the user profiles and created email distributed groups.  • I was responsible for creating security groups, service accounts, and privileged accounts (1accounts) in AD.  • Created 200 DFS shares on file servers and provisioned access to different users to perform their job duties.  • Built the SQL 2012 instances on windows servers and handed over to the DBA team.  • Worked on Veritas backup exec16 tool in our current environment and added 1500 servers(physical & virtual) to the backup systems.  • Worked on the VCENTER Documentation project to keep up to date the data related to the Production servers like contact information, application type, description of the servers.  • Worked on the Shavlik/Big fix patching tool to add servers in to the monthly patching schedules and install the windows updates.  • Worked on AD Cleans up project, to delete the disabled users and servers from the domain.  • Resolved Problems related to Disk Space Usage.  • Resolved problems related to performance metrics such as Processor Usage, Memory etc.  • Experience in migrating the virtual machines between the ESX (i) Hosts using VMotion.  • Helped in auditing Datacenter Inventory in the process of Data center migration.  • Perform day-to-day operation and troubleshooting of VMs.  • Added standard users to the various DFS shares by using automated power shell script.  • Keep Virtual hardware and VMware tools updated to keep a healthy environment.  • Maintaining Print servers, Application servers and File Servers.  • Experience in deploying new Virtual Machines from OVF/OVA templates.  • Migrated IIS6.0 to IIS7.0 using windows deployment tool 2.0.  • Hands on experience with VM server's deployment by using 2008 R2/2012 R2 and 2016 R2 templates.  • Experience in configuring Hyper V 5.0, VMware standard vSwitch&dvSwitch.  • Experience in configuring VMware virtual machine port groups, console ports groups,    VMKernal port groups and VLANs.    • Knowledge on setting up HPC Manager and added Data Centers to the dashboard and monitored daily basis.  • Hands on experience with ITIL to deliver the projects in time delivery    • Managed VMwareESX (i) hosts using vSphere client and Web client.  • Played a vital role in Creating Virtual Machines, Hyper V 4.5, 5.0, Cloning virtual machines, converting P2V(used standard VMware converter tool), VM-Provisioning (Linked clones, thin disks, de-duplication ) taking Snapshots of virtual servers, HA, DRS, VMotioning.  • Experience on creating host profiles and deploy to hosts in a VMware clusters.  • Automated the user accounts creation and disabled the inactive accounts by using windows power shell script  • Built the 100's of PVS servers by using power shell script on temporary usage purpose then decommissioned.  • Created project documentation for new server builds and DFS shares setup.  • Created thin provisioned VMs to suite client application requirements and expanding Hard Disk sizes as requested by clients.  • Used BMC Footprints tool for ticketing (Change Management, Incident Management, and Request Management).  • Provided On Call support 24x7 during Critical Issues for Production Environment. Systems Administrator CDI CORPORATION - Washington, DC July 2014 to August 2015 RESPONIBILITIES:  • Building new Windows Server 2003/2008 on Intel Server Platforms, IBM/HP/Dell PowerEdge servers as per the company's Windows build standards.    • Administered and setup user profiles in Win2003/2008 servers and ADS maintenance  • Administered and setup Print servers in Win2003/2008 server.  • Implementation of Microsoft DHCP, DNS, and Domain trust relationship, file and print services, user and group management.    • Implemented RAID5 for Fault Tolerance on Domain Controllers.  • Installed SQL server 2005 and deployed many SQL cluster deployments for clients for database requirements.  • Patching the Production Servers during the green zone window with security patches.  • Maintain the Software deployment and management solution and ensure proper patching on client systems. Maintain the Domain environment, including setting policies as per the security settings.  • Defining group permissions and creating local and global groups with account policies using Enterprise Engineer. Creating user rights and defining local and roaming profiles.  • Responsible to maintain the server inventory and document the server build/decommission, application installation/configuration, backup verifications, Operating System user accounts auditing, etc.    • Working on Change Management and Request Management Tickets in Remedy Tool  • Built and configured ESX 3.5/4.0 hosts and deployed XP/Vista/2003/2008 VMware Virtual Guests.    • Experience in configuring and enabling VMware EVC on VMware clusters.  • Experience with VMware system patching using update manager.  • Responsible to ensure servers are current with firmware, drivers, patches and security updates.    • Proficient in managing ESX Hosts using VMware vCenter.  • Linked Different vCenter servers using linked mode to have a single instance through vSphere client to manage the whole Virtual environment.  • Experience in configuring VMware vCenter Alarms for data store and host memory and CPU usage.    • Experience in configuring and management of VMware Clusters, VMware DRS, High Availability(HA) and VMotion.  • Experience in setting up VMware standard vSwitch and ports groups (Service Console, Virtual Machine and VMKernal.  • Created and managed Virtual Machines and Templates, worked with clones and snapshots of Virtual Machines.    • Experience in creating Virtual Machines on Shared Data Store.  • Hands on experience with vCloud Automation Center.  • Worked on Migrating Virtual Machines with VMotion.  • Providing 24/7 on call support for critical and production issues. Systems Administrator Automann - Somerset, NJ June 2011 to July 2014 RESPONIBILITIES:  • Main role is to provision virtual machines and physical as per client requirements.  • Extensively managed Active Directory like all the problems related to user accounts, domain accounts, managing permissions etc.  • Involved in operational support of Active Directory, WINS, DNS, and AD enabled applications.    • Installing and updating the windows patches.  • Creating NTFS shares on Windows Servers and provide permissions to users.  • Setting up perfmon windows servers to analyze performance issues.  • Built and manage Virtual servers on VMwareESXServer3.0/3.5.  • Experience in creating Clusters in Virtual Center and adding ESXHosts to Virtual Center Cluster.    • Experience in setting up VMKernel Network and Enable VMotion.  • Worked on Migrating Virtual Machines with VMotion.  • Experience in configuring VMware DRS Rules and VMwareHA on Clusters in Virtual Center.  • Experience in creating and monitoring Resource Pool for Virtual Machines Resource Reservation and Limits.  • Troubleshoot computer/network, Internet and email problems for users.  • Creating and managing user accounts and the groups in Active Directory users and computers.  • Involved in daily Performance monitoring and Active Directory troubleshooting with the ability to analyze server performance and make recommendations for improvement. Education Bachelor's Skills Active directory, Citrix, Dhcp, Tcp, Tcp/ip