Desktop Support Administrator Desktop Support <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Desktop Support Administrator - NBC Universal Fallbrook, CA Information Technology (IT) professional with over 5 years of experience and a secret clearance to perform official duties. Coordinates and manages complex IT systems in support of military agencies. Ensures hardware and network systems are operational and adequately performing. Develops and conducts security policy training tutorials. Maintains inventory of company-wide information systems, infrastructure, and devices. Coordinates and reviews technical and operational needs and requirements of company units. Displays excellent oral, written, and briefing communication skills. Currently working towards Bachelor of Science in Cyber Security degree. Work Experience Desktop Support Administrator NBC Universal - San Diego, CA 2018 to Present • Managed user account permissions in Active Directory to ensure proper access to enterprise resources.  • Responsible for enterprise-wide iPhone deployment and installation of mobile device management software.  • Lead technician for Windows 10 deployment and personnel training on new operating system.  • Redesigned asset accountability procedure for increased audit efficiency and tracking.  • Responsible for MDM remote wipe procedure for mobile devices that are stolen or lost.  • Reimaged over 100+ desktops and laptops with secure enterprise image.  • Refurbished and completed preventive maintenance on over 50+ laptops and desktops.  • Working knowledge of Microsoft O365 administration, Adobe CC, Video Encoders, Tele Prompters.  • Fulfill Service Requests such as workstation moves, software installations and equipment configuration changes.  • Assisted in managing Windows Server 2008-2016, Linux Servers, configurations, security patches and applications.  • Supported peripheral devices including scanners and printers.  • Supported mobile devices such as iPhones, iPads, and Air Cards.  • Supported business continuity plans and site readiness.  • Knowledge with working with HyperVisor as well vSphere VMs. Full-time Student National University - San Diego, CA 2015 to Present • Evaluated computer hardware and software integration to identify core requirements to secure Windows and Linux operating systems.  • Examined networking and security concepts for local area networks (LAN), wireless networks, and wide area networks (WAN).  • Implemented encryption, authentication, and access control for effective cybersecurity policies in virtual machine environment.  • Researched virtualization technology, cloud computing, and cloud deployment models.  • Utilized PowerShell, scripting, and python to implement network and system security functions.  • Assessed Linux and Windows systems security requirements and implemented hardening measures utilizing automated tools.  • Collected, analyzed, and managed security data from various systems using automation tools. Information Systems Coordinator United States Marine Corps - Okinawa, JP 2011 to 2015 • Requested, obtained, and evaluated customer needs and participated in designing, enhancing, or evaluating solutions for hardware and software installations.  • Managed +1,500 user accounts utilizing Active Directory and provided system access control and customer service support and repair.  • Provided desktop support, installation, and repair for computer software such as Adobe Reader, Adobe Flash, Microsoft Office, Excel, Symantec Antivirus, McAfee, Microsoft Outlook, and Internet Explorer for +500 Dell and HP computers.  • Designed and managed company intranet SharePoint site.  • Maintained network access control in compliance with classified network regulations.  • Managed and disseminated +300 secret clearance tokens for classified network access.  • Diagnosed and corrected tethering application connectivity issues across company Virtual Private Network.  • Re-imaged +100 computer hard drives for future deployment in network environment.  • Scheduled and coordinated monthly inspections and inventory for +1,000 devices.  • Maintained, managed, and resolved +3,000 user trouble tickets and ticketing system.  • Provided customer service assistance for Help Desk support for +2,000 users.  • Managed and trained IT help desk staff in Dell desktop support, Microsoft Windows software installation, hardware repair, and e-mail account creation and maintenance. Education Bachelor of Science in Cyber Security in Cyber Security National University 2020 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, EXCHANGE, CYBER SECURITY, SECURITY, LAN, ACTIVE SECRET CLEARANCE, TRAINING