Client Systems Technician/ Administrator Client <span class="hl">Systems</span> Technician/ <span class="hl">Administrator</span> USAF- Client System's Technician/ System Administrator: DoD TSSCI (Eligible) Raleigh-Durham, NC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Client Systems Technician/ Administrator USAF - Sumter, SC June 2017 to Present • Entrusted with DoD information protocols as well as federal and internal security standards up to a Top Secret Level  • System Administer of over 2000 NIPR and 150 SIPR computers.  • Provided remote and in-person support to resolve issues.  • Troubleshot and repaired desktop and mobile systems.  • Set up new computer systems and devices, including installing hardware and software and patching programs.  • Used diagnostic tools to identify hardware failures and replace non-functional components.  • Linked computers to network and peripheral equipment, including printers and scanners.  • Answered calls and emails at company’s help desk, assisting employees and customers with troubleshooting computer issues.  • Configured hardware, devices and software to set up new work stations for employees. Welder/Fabricator Peak Steel - Apex, NC April 2016 to June 2017 • Chipped away debris and thick crusts of rust, slag and other materials to ready surfaces for welding.  • Prepared MIG welding equipment to perform advanced fabrication work.  • Operated hoists, cranes and power tools.  • Closely monitored project and material layouts and specifications to effectively cut, contour and bevel metal and structural shapes.  • Aligned and welded steel units into place, assessing each component for accuracy.  • Cut metal components to required lengths using various tools, including using metal shears, hacksaws and bar cutters. Shift Manager Sheetz - Apex, NC December 2013 to April 2016 • Kept employees operating productively and working on task to meet business and customer needs.  • Managed schedules, accepted time off requests and found coverage for short shifts.  • Boosted team productivity and efficiency by leveraging top-notch motivational and managerial abilities.  • Trained and mentored new employees to maximize team performance.  • Adhered to company standards and compliance requirements for operations and cleanliness of all areas.  • Performed forecasting to identify necessary changes for supply chain business. Education Information Technology Community College of The Air Force - Montgomery, AL 2017 to Present High School Diploma North Hagerstown High School - Hagerstown, MD Skills Active Directory, System Administrator, Microsft Office 365 Military Service Branch: USAF Service Country: United States Rank: Senior Airman June 2017 to Present The rank of Senior Airman is a transition period from journeyman to Non-Commissioned Officer (NCO). It is essential that Airmen develop supervisory and leadership skills through Professional Military Experience (PME) and individual study. Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ October 2017 to October 2023 Additional Information • Remote troubleshooting    • PC repair abilities    • System deployment    • Administration knowledge    • Maintenance implementation    • Network protocols    • Desktop support    • Data entry    • Customer service expert    • Software diagnosis    • Staff education and training    • Technical issues analysis    • Technical documents comprehension    • Application support    • TCP/IP  •   • Customer Focused    • Team oversight    • Troubleshooting    • Excellent problem-solving abilities    • Oral and written communication    • Product templates    • Remote access technology    • System upgrades    • Email management software    • Problem resolution    • Planning and implementation    • Process implementation    • Network maintenance    • Enterprise technologies    • Policy and procedure adherence    • Team leadership    • Written and oral communication    • Risk management    • Excellent communication skills    • Equipment oversight    • New employee mentoring    • System backups    • Data backup and retrieval