UNIX/LINUX System Administrator UNIX/LINUX <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> UNIX/LINUX System Administrator - Compass Group INC Forestville, MD • UNIX/Linux System Administrator with about 6 years of experience in a multiplatform environment with hands-on experience in the administration and management of Solaris 10 operating systems and Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6 & 7, Centos 6 & 7(Red Hat Certified System Administrator) Work Experience UNIX/LINUX System Administrator Compass Group INC December 2016 to Present • Builds, Install, configure virtual and physical servers, test, deploy Solaris 10, RHEL 6&7, CentOS 6&7 servers to the network: OS installation and configuration- standard and advanced (jumpstart and kickstart).  • Hardening, Patching (Solaris 10 Servers using 10-Recommended patches), and upgrades (release), on standalone servers (using single user mode), and on production servers (live upgrade).  • Monitoring and log management on UNIX/Linux and servers, including processes, crash and swap management, with password recovery and performance tuning.  • User and security management.  • Setup, configure and troubleshoot TCP/IP, DHCP, DNS; NFS, and samba servers in a multiplatform LAN.  • Shell scripting (bash) to schedule and automate processes including full and incremental backups using tar, and ufsdump.  • Install, configure and host httpd apache webserver as well as Tomcat server.  • Perform multiplatform volume management using ZFS, LVM; install and configure a LAN wide NAS (Free NAS) used for creating LUNs and attaching to Linux servers  • Virtualization (VMware ESXI ; Websphere, Vcenter, Vmotion ;).  • Connecting to Single Sign On LDAP server and configure Auto-mount.  • Supporting system users and troubleshooting system issues. Document solutions for future reference.  • Installing and maintaining the operating system and related software products.  • Participating in root-cause analysis of recurring issues, system backup and security setup, Provide 24X7 support in Production Testing  • Participating in root-cause analysis of recurring issues, system backup and security  • Install and configure of Ansible (Hadoc, playbook)  • Automation skills utilizing scripting language bash shell, and in python  • install and configure packages and patches on Solaris/Linux Linux systems Adminstrator January 2015 to October 2016 Monitored and Managed Server performance using associated tools.  Installed, configured and managed VMware infrastructure (ESXI).  • Performed user accounts administration.  • Participating in root-cause analysis of recurring issues, system backup and security setup, Provide 24X7  • Work as part of a team and provide 7x24 support when required.  • Install and Configure Apache HTTPD  • Perform regular system backup & recovery.  • Monitor submitted tickets; assign and communicate, as required.  • Archive, compress, unpack and uncompress files using tar, gzip and bzip2.  • Change passwords and adjust password aging for Local user accounts, set enforcing and permissive modes for SElinux, creation and management of ACL.  • Perform package management using pkgadd, pkgutil in solaris and using rpm, yum in Linux. Unix/Linux Systems Administrator Comtel Network Company LT.(Benin) January 2012 to July 2014 • Troubleshoot and resolved TCP/IP networking issues.  • Installed, configured and managed VMware infrastructure (ESXI).  • Performed user accounts administration.  • Managed Password aging configuration on servers.  • Maintained file systems and host security.  • Successful in resolving customer issues through troubleshooting.  • Installed and Administered patches and updates to help improve performance  • Monitored and Managed Server performance using associated tools.  • Setup, configure and troubleshoot TCP/IP, DHCP, DNS; NFS, CIFS.  • Performed logs administration to detect and resolve system errors. Education Associate Degree in Industrial Computing and maintenance in Industrial Computing and maintenance Benin Republic University Skills Apache, Linux, Red hat, Solaris, Active directory Additional Information Technical Skills:    SKILLS    ? Red Hat Enterprise Linux v6&7  ? CentOS v6&7, Solaris v10  ? Windows 2008, 2012 & 2016 enterprise servers  ? Kernel Patching with Red Hat Satellite  ? Oracle virtual machine OVM  ? Active directory, group policy, LDAP,  ? Red Hat Identity management server  ? Virtual Image template, and snapshots  ? SSH Keys - public and private - for secure connections, Public Key Infrastructure PKI.  ? File management  ? User management  ? Scripts  ? Sudoers configuration  ? Selinux troubleshooting  ? HTTP Apache server  ? TCP/IP  ? Kickstart  ? NFS  ? Samba  ? NTP  ? Periodic password  ? kickstart