IT Infrastructure Manager IT Infrastructure Manager IT Infrastructure Manager Belmont, MA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Infrastructure Manager PillPack - Boston, MA May 2019 to Present • Designed and implemented AWS Transit Gateway to allow for centralizing multiple VPCs and VPN connections for better security and ease of deployment.  • Deployed Jamf for provisioning Macbooks and Jamf Connect to use Active Directory for authentication and account management.  • Participated in the PillPack Mentorship program as a mentor and worked with mentee on career guidance, project management, and general technical advice.  • Deployed RADIUS to leverage Okta 2-factor authentication for Amazon Workspaces.  • Responsible for all the IT infrastructure at 7 sites nationwide, as well as developing standards and processes for new sites. Senior Systems Administrator PillPack - Somerville, MA May 2018 to September 2018 • Senior member of the Corporate IT team providing mentorship and point of escalation to junior members of the team.  • Designed and implemented monitoring for all corporate IT devices and services by deploying distributed Check_MK Enterprise Edition for high availability and multi-site design.  • Implemented test environment in AWS to mirror production including full mirror of Active Directory to test domain, Okta, and SSO integrations for test environments in Slack, PagerDuty, GSuite, and AWS AppStream.  • Deployed PHPIPAM to implement better inventory and IPAM to move away from Google Sheets.  • Deployed and leveraged Jenkins in a multi-node setup to run both PowerShell and Bash scripts in a central location with Active Directory authentication.  • Leveraged PowerShell and Jenkins to automate the on-boarding and off-boarding of users, disable users and computers that have not logged into the domain in 90 days, deployment of new Windows computers, creation of Active Directory service accounts, and reenabling computer objects that had been disabled due to inactivity. Principal Systems Administrator Oracle - Burlington, MA September 2017 to September 2018 • Senior member of the Access and Identity team within GBU Cloud Services (GBUCS) that manages the global authentication  infrastructure for the Oracle Cloud for Industry infrastructure.  • Lead administrator for design and deployment of PKI infrastructure for five separate production domains.  • Played a critical role in PCI audit and remediation project; developed multiple PowerShell scripts to streamline the vulnerability  resolution process. Systems Administrator IV Waters Corporation - Milford, MA December 2012 to September 2017 Senior member of the Systems Administration team that is responsible for a twenty four by seven multinational enterprise  organization.  • Lead administrator for the organizations Active Directory and Active Directory Federation Services (ADFS) infrastructure,  including AzureAD Sync and Group Policy creation and management.  • Developed PowerShell scripts to automate business reports such as: daily Active Directory health check, virtual machines with active snapshots, user termination, and email alias creation in OpenLDAP.  • Subject matter expert for Solarwinds monitoring deployment, as well as creating custom alerting and reporting within Solarwinds  Server Application Monitor, Virtualization Manager, and Network Performance Monitor.  • Implemented ADAudit Plus and developed procedures to delegate the responsibility of resolving Active Directory account lockouts  to the help desk staff.  • Redesigned the corporate internal DNS infrastructure that resolved performance and access issues for business services globally. Engineering Shared Infrastructure Services Systems Administrator NetApp - Waltham, MA July 2012 to November 2012 Co-developed a PowerCLI script that automated the VMware ESX server provisioning and deployment from over one hour to 25  minutes.  • Lead administrator for the NetApp New England site for both the production and engineering lab VMware and Active Directory  environments.  • Collaborated with internal development groups to build and configure server templates for multiple distributions of Linux and versions of Windows to allow for easy deployment of new servers into the environment. IT/Network Administrator Roto Frank of America - Chester, CT November 2011 to May 2012 • Condensed server footprint from seven physical servers by virtualizing them across three VMware ESX hosts.  • Implemented Sonicwall Continuous Data Protection to provide both real-time backup of critical data and quick restoration. Education High school or equivalent Skills Amazon Web Services (1 year), Windows Server (10+ years), Powershell (7 years), Linux (8 years), HTML, SQL Links https://github.com/colealtdelete Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner May 2019 to May 2022 Assessments Technical Support — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/aegd2b6jhvtvqdjd Email — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/64etufjkakvq3awl Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.