Command and Control Systems Administrator, SAIC Command and Control <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>, SAIC Command and Control Systems Administrator, SAIC - 505th Command And Control Wing Mary Esther, FL Work Experience Command and Control Systems Administrator, SAIC 505th Command And Control Wing - Hurlburt Field, FL 2018 to Present - Provides support for moderately complex technical activities related to systems administration on Department of Defense command and control systems.  - Maintains an existing training lab of DoD command and control systems as well as configuration managed common client workstations.  - Performs moderately complex systems administration using Department of Defense or commercially recognized systems administration practices and procedures.  - Collects and reviews systems logs to assist in proactive identification of issues that may lead to failure.  - Performs basic troubleshooting and fault isolation.  - Supports moderately complex data/media recovery through system backups and database archive operations.  - Develops and maintains appropriate documentation including systems configuration checklists and historical data.  - Assists facility manager as alternate for our training lab. Assists our security manager in ensuring access controls are properly maintained in accordance with military service orders and instructions.  - Performs software installations, upgrades, patches and IAVAs in accordance with systems security manuals, software user's manuals, and installation instructions. Deployed Systems Support Engineer/ Tactical Local Area network System Admin Jacobs Technology/CACI Inc. - Air Force Special Operation Command (AFSOC) - Hurlburt Field, FL 2017 to 2018 - Senior systems administrator for deployable server architecture responsible for supporting 200+ users per classification.  - Managed multi server systems, virtualized server environments and Cisco network configurations.  - Worked with military employees and government employees, responsible for ensuring system configuration accuracy for multi-national operations, and training.  - Instructed and supervised individuals in proper system configuration, maintenance, and troubleshooting.  - Vetted new system hardware upgrades, software configuration changes and kept accountability of equipment. Replaced damaged or defective equipment and ensured system efficiency. Senior Systems Administrator\Network Technician 1 SOCS - Air Force Special Operation Command (AFSOC) - Hurlburt Field, FL 2012 to 2017 - Experienced with the recovery of Microsoft Exchange Servers and databases with zero loss after catastrophic failure.  - Familiarity with the set-up and configuration of a multiple server virtual environment using VMware.  - Administered multiple Windows Enterprise Server environments using Active Directory and server manager tools.  - Set-up, configured, and maintained secure networking solution across multiple high availability networks.  - Lead network administrator for various deployed network architectures.  - Skilled in Configuring/troubleshooting Cisco routers, switches, and encryption devices.  - Performed system maintenance across variety of equipment and operating systems.  - Configured Windows Distribution Server to deploy client images, maintained software and troubleshot issues.  - Managed NetApp systems, configured/created & deleted volumes/performed backups and replaced disks. Education BACHELORS DEGREE in INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY University of Management and Technology - Arlington, VA 2016 to Present INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ASSOSCIATES DEGREE Community College of The Air Force 2015 Additional Information ? 7+ Years system administration and networking experience  ? Active Secret Clearance  ? Windows Server 2003/2008/2012R2/2016  ? Microsoft Exchange 2010/2012 Experienced  ? Security + 2012 Certified/CE Enrolled  ? TACLAN 10.0-16.0 Experience  ? NetApp configuration  ? Experience w/ KG 175D/250/250X  ? ARMY/USAF Joint Systems Integration  ? BCCS/AFATDS/CPOF/TAIS Experience    ? Microsoft Server configuration experience  ? Windows Client Systems Administration Experience  ? Network Planning/Engineering Experience  ? AD/DNS/DHCP/WDS/WSUS Experience  ? CISCO Network Hardware Experience  ? Experience in VMware/HyperV  ? Virtualization training and experience  ? System/Network troubleshooting  ? SKL Device experience  ? Airspace Management/Simulation Systems  ? IAVA/STIG Scheduling/Implementation