Help Desk Technician Help Desk Technician Help Desk Technician - CSAT Solutions Houston, TX I am a motivated IT person with hands on systems administration, System configuration, Enthusiastic team  player, always looking for innovative and efficient engineering solutions, Energetic self-starter capable of  learning quickly with minimal guidance. I am seeking to progress my career in the Information Technology  sector where I will use my skills and experience in system maintenance and technical troubleshooting to  contribute to an active growth and productivity of the company.  I am authorized to work in the United States for any employer. Work Experience Help Desk Technician CSAT Solutions - Houston, TX February 2019 to Present • Configured hardware, devices and software to set up workstations for employees.  • Used GPWeb ticketing systems to manage and process support actions and requests.  • Testing and troubleshooting new applications.  • Providing end-user system support, resolving access and connectivity issues.  • Collaborated with vendors to locate replacement components and resolve advanced problems.  • Trained and supported end-users with software, hardware and network standards and use processes. Linux Systems Administrator Super User Consulting Inc - Houston, TX June 2016 to June 2019 • Using command line & software server/application monitoring and process management tools (Rsyslog)  • Configuration and management of network services (HTTP).  • Managing physical, virtual, and network storage (LVM's).  • Installed, configured, and maintained Linux systems using Centos and Redhat.  • Managed firewall, network monitoring and server monitoring both on- and off-site.  • Diagnosed and troubleshooted UNIX and Windows processing problems and applied solutions to increase company efficiency.  • Implemented, developed and tested installation and update of file servers, print servers and application  servers in all departments. Jr Devops Data Service Group Inc May 2014 to June 2016 • Push codes from local and master branches to central repositories.  • Creating new Ansible YAML, Play-books, Roles and bash shell scripts for application deployments.  • Collaborating with Dev and Prod teams to ensure smooth running of the pipeline.  • Resolve package Management dependency issues.  • Working with Dev team.  • Installation, configuration and hardening of Bare Metal Linux servers, working with security team  • Participate in daily scrum to improve system performance, and automation capabilities.  • Installation and Configuration of the APACHE web Server on Linux platforms. Computer Technician World Voice Center - Yaounde, CM April 2012 to March 2014 • Using of hand tools and machines to assemble parts.  • Performed final testing on newly created equipment to meet engineering specifications.  • Control of all parts and units existing on the picklist.  • Reading electrical and electronic drawing  • Performing pre-assembly activities  • Performed final testing on newly created equipment to meet engineering specifications.  • Repairing computers as ordered Education Associate Degree Houston Community College - Houston, TX 2019 Skills LINUX, DEVOPS, VIRTUALIZATION, DATABASE, ORACLE, Desktop Support, Help Desk, Helpdesk Support