CIO CIO CIO - Greytek Indsutries LLC Fresno, CA Work Experience CIO Greytek Indsutries LLC - Fresno, CA 2012 to Present Duties: Creation of a company, tool and device administration, budgeting, server creation and management, website design and management, mentoring, hiring, screening, and managing. Systems Administrator BCT Consulting February 2019 to June 2019 Industries: Healthcare, Law Offices, Production Plants, CPA firms, Banks, Stockbrokers  Duties: Maintain Network, Software and Hardware upgrades, User account management, Office 365 creation, management, and implementation. Performance Monitoring    FIT Solutions  Position: Network Engineer  Industries: Healthcare    Duties Network security, Network Maintenance, Maintain Network, Software and Hardware upgrades, User account Management, Office 365 creation, management, and implementation. Performance Monitoring. E3 - Airman First Class United States Air Force 2016 to 2018 Customer Service Representative Alorica 2016 to 2017 Industries: Call Center    Duties: Troubleshoot over the phone, provide client details to client threw discovery, completed RMAs and device repairs. Provided excellent customer service. Do warranty claims on the clients behalf. Information Systems Support Technician Reedley College 2015 to 2016 Industries: Education    Duties: Administer district policies regarding use of computers and data access, interact with the District network for installing, configuring and troubleshooting workstations, build and manage classroom server. Education Certification in Information Systems Reedley College 2014 to 2016 Skills Wireless, Dns, Networking, Dhcp, Data management, Mdm, Security, Wireshark, Ios, Wap, Migrations, Ap, Healthcare, Sniffer, Macos, Windows xp Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: E3 Additional Information INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SKILLS:    I have been part of finding, making, and the completion of multiple new medium scale Business Core Systems in the Healthcare world such as Invigorate Healthcare gaining new facilities and having to convert and upgrade all networking equipment to be up to company needs. I have also lead large scale Migrations (Data Management) and Upgrades (Software & Hardware) as a contractor for the US Air Force. My goal is to align IT with the business needs for effective operation through the proper discovery process, reviewing all existing device information, creating and applying a system that will be the most cost effectiveness, usefulness, and increases production for the company.    Wireless Products Security Products Microsoft Products Cloud Products Apple Products  Meraki WAP Kali Packet Sniffer O365 AWS MacOS Server  Ubiquity Wireshark AD DS Azure Cloud MacOS 10.9-10.15  Ruckus AP WatchGuard Server 2008-2019 Google Business iOS  DHCP Go Daddy WatchOS  DNS MDM tvOS  Windows XP-10 iPadOS