IT Support Specialist Intern IT Support Specialist Intern IT Support Specialist San Diego, CA IT specialist with experience in hardware design, building and maintenance computer systems, hardware and software installation and administration, desktop support. Has ability to prioritize workload, shows good problem-solving skills in fast pace environment. Can troubleshoot servers, desktops, laptops, LAN, WAN, wireless networks, peripheral devices, POS equipment, terminals, electromechanical equipment. Has practice with Windows and Linux. Can effective support WinXP, Win7, Win10, Ubuntu, Debian, CentOS. Fedora. Has working knowledge of client-server technologies. Windows Server 2008, 2012, Active Directory AD, DNS, DHCP, Group Policy GP, VPN, iSCSI, TCP/IP, Bitlocker, Bitdefender, Acronis, NovaBackUp, Backup Exec, Duo Two Factor Authentication, Bash, PowerShell. Familiar with virtualization technology: VMWare, Oracle VM VirtualBox, Hyper-V.   Presents a professional appearance, hard-worker, honest, polite, punctual, responsible. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Support Specialist Intern UCSD Health Services Research Center - San Diego, CA May 2019 to July 2019 Under general supervision of the system administrator, assists with the coordination, installation, support, and maintenance workstations, servers, phones, and printers throughout the  enterprise. Responsible for supporting configuring and troubleshooting Windows 7/8/10, iOS  Devices, Server 2008/2012, Microsoft Office 2010+, Anti-Virus Software in a small office  environment.  Install, configure, test, maintain, monitor and troubleshoot end-user workstations and related  hardware and software in order to deliver required desktop service levels. Create new user  accounts in Active Directory per process and terminate user accounts per approvals. Setup and configure desk phones for new employees and or troubleshoot telephone related issues.  Perform user account related moves and change requests.  Responsible for imaging PCs using approved images as defined in IT SOP's. Provide end- user technical assistance with mobile devices, network printers/copiers, peripherals. Train users on  operating system and common application fundamentals.  Collaborate with IT department personnel to ensure efficient operation of the company's  desktop computing environment.  Document instances of desktop equipment or component failure, repair, installation and removal. Where necessary, liaise with manufacturer on warranty repairs. Continuously update  existing documentation when system or software changes occur. Assist in developing long-term  strategies and capacity planning for meeting future desktop environment needs. Student SDCCD CE - San Diego, CA 2016 to 2018 Windows System Administration; Linux Server Administration; Server Essentials; Desktop  Operating Systems; Security Essentials. IT Support Specialist IT Services - UA 2012 to 2016 Troubleshooted network usage and computer peripherals. Performed data migration to the new machines, removed old equipment. Migrated user profiles and data with the User State Migration Tool (USMT). Prepared systems for the deployment, captured Windows images with ImageX, configured and modified images using Deployment Imaging Servicing and Management (DISM). Setup, deployed and maintained patches and security updates using Windows Server 2012 Update Services (WSUS). Monitored policies and standards for allocation related to the use of computing resources.   Supported a robust Microsoft based network running XP, Windows 7. Supported users connections to iSCSI targets on SAN/NAS storage. Manage equipment list, maintained hardware and software at the highest operational status. Monitored servers and workstations performance and optimized if necessary. Carried out regular maintenance of various equipment, planning, migration, and expansion of environments as needed.   Organized IT technical documents into clear and concise instructions for end users. This included: authoring and formatting written instructions, importing and formatting drawings, performing updates and changes to existing documents.  Administrated software and hardware in copy/print center. Installed, configured, updated, serviced, maintained, troubleshooted proprietary programs for printing. Controlled availability, installed drivers, setup configuration for HP Canon Epson Lexmark printers and Epson scanners. Systems Administrator IT Services - UA 2010 to 2012 Implemented retail automation projects. Configured and administrated Microsoft SQL Server 2005. Installed FTP server, configured Windows Server 2008 VPN server and software for accounting. Troubleshooted, installed and configured networks equipment, proprietary software, POS systems, barcode scanners Datalogic, Proton, Zebex, Motorola. Setup and configured thermal receipt and barcode printers Epson, Zebra, TSC in retail stores. Updated software for the POS systems.   Configured hardware, peripherals, services, settings, directories, storage, etc. in accordance with projects and operational requirements. Performed daily systems monitoring, verified the integrity and availability of all hardware, resources and services. Provided education for company staff in using software and POS equipments.   Administrated SQL server user accounts. Managed AD users and computers. Configured user rights. Evaluated, tested and installed patches, new software releases and system upgrades. Maintained internal company Apache web-server based on CentOS operating system. Troubleshooted server, researching the servers log files.   Performed system backups using Windows Server 2008 Backup feature and Acronis True Image, ensuring all required system files and data are successfully backed up to the appropriate media. Provided data recovery at a fast pace in a short time. Education San Diego Community College District Continuing Education 2016 to 2018 Zaporozhye National Technical University 1983 to 1991 HS Degree Chernigovskaya HS # 1983 Skills HP, Dell, NEO Tape Library, Security, Imagin, Migration, Desktop Support, Active Directory, Tech Support, Service Desk, Linux, Windows Systems, Administration, Troubleshooting, PowerShell, Bash, Testing, HP, IBM Tape Drives, BackUp Exec, DUO Multi-Factor Authentication, Help Desk, NovaBACKUP Certifications/Licenses Cybrary Certificate: TCP/IP Present Cybrary Certificate: Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard PCI/DSS Present Cybrary Certificate: Health Insurance Portability and Accountability ACT (HIPAA) Security Awareness Present Microsoft Virtual Academy Certificate: What's New in Windows Server 2016 Present Microsoft Virtual Academy Certificate: Using PowerShell for Active Directory Present Microsoft Virtual Academy Certificate: Windows 10: Top Features for IT Pros Present Microsoft Virtual Academy Certificate: Windows 10 Deployment: Tips and Tricks from Microsoft IT Present Cybrary Certificate: Open Systems Interconnection model (OSI model); Present