Director, Electoral Program Director, Electoral Program Director, Electoral Program - DigiDems Antioch, TN CIO/COO/IT Management expert with over twenty years of experience leading teams, managing projects,  and delivering above and beyond every expectation. Work Experience Director, Electoral Program DigiDems - Nashville, TN January 2019 to Present At the end of our program in 2018, I was approached by the leadership to assume managerial role over the 2019 program. I was selected over and above my other 88 peers for my abilities to lead and manage such a task.    For DigiDems I have translated the vision of the Executive Vice President into a functional team of direct  reports serving to support state-level political races on a variety of IT projects.    My duties include being a technical resource to our field operatives, designating projects for them, gathering data from said projects, and reporting to our executive leadership team.    Skills: Leadership Development, IT Management, Metrics Collection/Reporting, Public Speaking, Business  Communications    Critical Wins: Designed and executed a training session for our 2019 program. Provided ongoing leadership  development and technical training for our 2019 field operatives. Freelance Marketing Consultant Self - Nashville, TN March 2010 to Present I have always had a knack for marketing consulting and use it to fill in during periods of transition. I  designed and produced exciting projects on a freelance basis between 2017-2018. Those projects ranged from marketing plans, to video marketing pieces, to copywriting and graphic design.    Throughout my career, I have always had a dual set of skills that have allowed me to work in a number of combinations and for a plethora of clients/employers.    Skills: Marketing Communication, Marketing Audits, KPI Development    Critical Wins: Developed a comprehensive marketing strategy for a major church in the Nashville area. Digital Organizer DigiDems - Reston, VA July 2018 to November 2018 For DigiDems I provided a number of high-level technical skills to a top-tier federal political campaign in a CTO/CIO capacity. I provided the following key points of leadership:    IT Security - I was responsible for training, enforcing, and auditing the campaign IT Security issues.  Endpoint security, firewall management, network management, and authentication and verification  protocols all fall under my purview.    IT Management - Evaluating, demonstrating, and supporting all aspects of the IT Infrastructure including  desktop and cloud-based apps that were mission-critical to the campaign. These include G-Suite  administration, and several campaign-specific apps like Team, Hustle, and VAN.    Multimedia Production - I also provided my skills and support to the production of video/print/web design to help our campaign win on the digital front.    Skills: IT Security, IT Management, Social Media Management  Critical Wins: Protected campaign from massive DDoS attacks. Transitioned all staff onto hardened  security protocols. Developed a social media video series to help engage our constituents. Video Services Administrator Warren Averett, Inc - Montgomery, AL September 2015 to 2017 For Warren Averett, I stepped into a space far broader than my title allowed. I handled all of the copywriting, all of the video production, and a significant portion of the Marketing Communication  strategy for a top thirty accounting firm. I used video and live training to communicate key initiatives and set standards for our internal brand. In addition, I effectively crafted C-Level communications on behalf of  our CEO and other officers for both internal and external use.    Skills: Marketing Communications, Copywriting, Adobe Creative Suite, DSLR Video Production, Audio  Production, Scripts/Screenplays, Marketing Strategy    Critical Wins: Created a role from scratch and delivered six figures' worth of video production over six  months. Received and overcame challenges with regard to budgets, locations, and talent. Communicated to and from top executives down to entry-level new hires.    Systems Administration/IT Management Warren Averett, Inc - Montgomery, AL January 2013 to September 2015 My duties, originally, were closer to Systems Administration. Within six weeks of hire I was given IT  management responsibilities for the Montgomery office. I contributed both up and down the command  structure for our environment and supported every part of our infrastructure. A key element of my job was  effectively communicating IT concepts both from our engineers to our users and from our users to our  engineers in a way that is mutually beneficial.    Skills: Scripting, Trend Micro OfficeScan, Backup/Disaster Recovery, Microsoft Windows Server 2012, Microsoft SCCM 2012, Corporate Communications    Critical Wins: Stepped into a critical role with a week's notice, managed transition with no downtime and effectively coached new direct report into a functional relationship. Deployed Trend Micro IWSVA to replace  aging Websense platform and custom configured corporate web filtering.    IT Training/Corporate Videography/Relationship Building  Warren Averett, Inc.    January 2013 - September 2015 • Montgomery, AL  In addition to my functions with Systems Administration and IT Management, I served a number of other  significant purposes for Warren Averett. I handled the onboarding IT training for all our new users  teaching at least one full class every month and often teaching dozens of individuals remotely. I  developed client presentation videos using Adobe Premiere and professional video equipment. This  included writing scripts, coaching talent, and communicating the vision for the piece to all involved.    Skills: Training, Corporate Communications, Creative Writing, Leadership Development, Event Planning, Fun and General Mischief    Critical Wins: Kept a year's worth of major corporate events under budget while leading a diverse group of people towards greater and greater success.    Systems Administration Systems Administrator Raycom Media, Inc - Montgomery, AL May 2011 to December 2012 with a special emphasis on endpoint security. My tasks  included overseeing and developing our antivirus and antimalware software, web security, desktop  security and general administration.    In addition to my standard duties, I was often called upon to craft corporate-wide communication to clearly explain major IT changes for our entire organization.    Skills: Active Directory, Symantec Endpoint Protection, GPO Creation, Web Filtering and Security, Microsoft  Windows Server 2K8, Exchange 2K7, SQL Server, Corporate Communications    Critical Wins: Saving the company 30K per year by implementing a custom server monitoring system and helpdesk. Revamped endpoint security scope and outbreak response.    Ten more years of experience available on request.    Skills  Leadership Development, IT Management, G-Suite Administration, IT Security Management, Threat  Assessment, Marketing, Corporate Communications, Copy Editing, Video Production/Direction/Editing, Technical Writing, Social Media Promotion/Marketing, Apple Hardware/Software, Adobe Creative Suite  Premiere/Photoshop/After Effects/Illustrator/Audition, Graphic & Web Design, CMS/Wordpress/Drupal/Joomla/Concrete, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Corporate Presentations, C-Level  Communications, Technical Training, Marketing Training, Public Speaking Education High school or equivalent