Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer System Administrator Vilonia, AR IT Specialist with experience in a fast-paced environment that demands excellent technical, multitasking, and customer service skills. Driven to succeed with the ability to see things as they are. Skill areas include:    ? Server Administration ? Customer Service  ? Cisco device configuration ? Project Management  ? Problem Solving ? Network Design / Troubleshooting  ? End user support ? Vendor Management Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Engineer Business Network Solutions - Conway, AR May 2019 to Present System Engineer for an MSP that provides support for multiple in fields such as medical, legal, and small business.   • Project management  • Escalation point for tier 2 issues and technical team lead   • Network support and improvements with Cisco, HP, and Netgear devices  • Server and workstation support  • Managed backups on Datto and StorageCraft products.   • Electronic medical records support   • Manage and support on premise electronic medical records and Exchange servers  • Supported and managed clients with server versions ranging from 2008 R2 to 2016  • Supported and managed clients with workstation versions ranging from windows XP to 10. System Administrator Pain Treatment Centers of America February 2018 to May 2019 IT Support Specialist reporting to IT Director supporting 11 locations and 180+ internal clients supporting all IT related functions.  ? Lead IT projects as assigned.  ? Train users on new systems as they are implemented.  ? Configuration and implementation of all Cisco ASA, Catalyst, and Small Business switches.  ? Microsoft Active Directory 2016 administration.  ? Implementation HIPAA compliance measures throughout the network.  ? Design, direct, and oversee installation of IT infrastructure at new clinics.  ? Ensure network security through web filtering (OpenDNS), software updates, Webroot antivirus scans, Bitlocker hard drive encryption, Active Directory GPO, VLAN configurations, Cisco firewall, and VPN setups.  ? Support of Onelogin bringing Single Sign On to business applications.  ? Management of wireless environment on Cisco Meraki infrastructure along with implementation of 802.1x Radius authentication.  ? Microsoft Office 365 administration.  ? Administration of 8x8 VOIP phone system for enterprise and call center.  ? Perform installation, configuration, and support of desktop hardware, software, printers, and other peripheral devices.  ? Administration of camera and access control systems.  ? Setup servers in VMWare environment.  ? Ensure server and O365 backups through Datto high availability recovery solution.  ? Track all requests through the Samanage Service Desk system to show IT's value to the business.  ? Utilize Solarwinds to monitor network resources and send alerts for network based issues.  ? Responsible for ensuring all IT documentation is up to date.  ? Develop and maintain relationships with multiple vendors (MSP, EMR, Printer, Cabling, etc).  ? Research and recommend innovative, and where possible automated approaches for system administration tasks. Technical Analyst Cabot Police Department August 2013 to February 2018 Supported all aspects of technology for the police department.  ? Provided end user support for 50 officers and administration.  ? Imaging of new PC's and support of Windows 7 and Windows 10 hardware.  ? Manage and maintain PC inventory.  ? Work with city IT Director to escalate and troubleshoot issues.  ? Cameras and access control system administration.  ? Active Directory administration  ? Created inventory system for body cameras  ? Video retrieval, archival, and editing for freedom of information requests.  ? Investigate identity fraud, credit card fraud, and other cyber crimes.  ? Strong customer service skills working with vendors and the public at large. Multi Skilled Assistant Conway Regional Medical Center October 2010 to August 2013 Licensed CNA  ? Phlebotomy  ? Operate lab machines  ? Assist in community Health Fairs  ? Assist with the training of new employees  ? Maintain patient records Education Associates in Computer Systems and Network Technology Arkansas State University May 2020 Skills Help Desk, Service Desk, Tech Support, Active Directory