Network System/Server Administrator Network <span class="hl">System</span>/Server <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network System/Server Administrator - DOUBLE BRIDGE TECHNOLOGIES, INC Edison, NJ Work Experience Network System/Server Administrator DOUBLE BRIDGE TECHNOLOGIES, INC - Princeton, NJ January 2018 to Present * Identify errors for CPU configuration by checking BMC System Event Log to confirm if mainboard needs to perform a replacement.  * Verify DIMM failure, the error could be located by executing SEL Log and MCE log then replace related memory; if memory lost, needs to confirm it could be found in BIOS after the replacement, the mainboard and/or CPU is required to be replaced in order if data cannot be retrieved after replacement of memory.  * Analyze root cause of hard disk failure, perform changing of hard disk based on SOP; if speed down, analyze routed chain and replace parts in order then check Isscsi/Ispci to confirm; if lost, perform hard disk replacement after collecting slot position.  * Perform checking issue of cooling exhaust fan, if speed down, update PIC FW/CM4 FW and BMC FW, perform chain routed check and replace parts if speed still down; if stop working, verify if it's well-inserted and if the fan needs to be replaced, if issue still exists, perform checking chain routed then replace parts in order till exhausted fan work as normal.  * Verify the reason that server down, check log to identify if it's related to mainboard, if yes, analyze further, if it's related to FW, update FW, if not, proceed to replace mainboard. If no, proceed to replace.  * Identify root cause of PSU abnormal performance, if power lost, check whether it's related to loose of power line or dead of battery; if LED displays orange, change battery; if error occurred, check BMC log and analyze chain routed in order till PSU works normal. Computer Systems Engineer DoubleBridge Technologies Inc March 2017 to Present Pfizer ACD project  * Responsible for collecting requirements from stake holder based on Pfizer Acquisition& Collaboration and Divesture projects  * Draft project strategy and create Business Analytic Property Enrichment Template (BAPET) for documents that need to be uploaded/ updated within Pfizer system.  * Cooperate with technical team or business operators for bulking upload/ update based on generated BAPET  * Analyze and discussion with related technicians in case of any unexpected scenarios raised up  Pfizer Automation project  * Responsible for analyzing and recognizing currently manual process that could be simplified if Robotic Process Automation (RPA) applied  * Cooperate with Project Manager and initiate the proposed flowchart  * Research the RPA realization process details and estimate the amount of time savings against manual  * Work with development team about the functionalities realization.  Pfizer Business Support project  * Responsible for statistics of monthly helpdesk in-scope tickets and analyze the reason for the increasing or decreasing of volume if any.  * Report influence of big event that includes system new release, change request deployment and bug fix.  * Inform team of recent work instruction updates if any through weekly based meeting. User Acceptance Tester July 2016 to March 2017 * Responsible for manually executing testing scripts for Pfizer Quality Management System project through the Application called HP ALM-QC (Quality Center);  * Draft test strategy and test scripts for Pfizer CAL project;  * Creating and maintaining testing documentation to ensure the traceability of requirements implementation;  * Reporting system defects and documenting them in deviation log used for tracking status;  * Communicating with business users and technical leaders to confirm project scope and defect solutions.  Academic Project Student STEVENS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY - Hoboken, NJ August 2014 to June 2016 Remote Controlling a Car Over the Smartphone and Raspberry Pi                                        ?         Programmed Python codes and searched references online to learn how to use smart phone to control the model car remotely.  ?         Connected a camera module for Raspberry Pi 2 and used WinSCP to transfer the file from PC to Raspberry Pi 2.  ?         Used VLC media player to watch the real-time situation when the car was moving, using L298N H-Bridge being a motor driver module.    Currency Exchange Rate Prediction Using BP Neural Network                                                        ?         Developed the back propagation algorithm and implemented it by MATLAB R2013b.  ?         Used statistic from website (www.investing.com) and chose one year’s currency between USD and CNY including 312 days record.  ?         Concluded that the average error of my prediction is 0.1163, which means the error rate will be 1.81%.    Pseudo-random Noise Generator                                                                                                          ?         Reported defects and documented them in deviation log which is used to tracking defect status. Communicate with business users and developers to confirm project scope and defect solutions.  ?         Designed sustainable gate-level schematic and layout using L-Edit and assembled modules including D flip-flop, XOR gate and 2-input OR gate.  ?         Conducted DRC, extracted SPICE file and used T-Spice for simulation to check errors after each module construction completed.   ?         Simulated different supply voltages and temperatures to determine the highest-speed condition. STEVENS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY August 2015 to December 2015 * Developed the back propagation algorithm and implemented it by MATLAB R2013b.  * Used statistic from website (www.investing.com) and chose one year's currency between USD and CNY including 312 days record.  * Concluded that the average error of my prediction is 0.1163, which means the error rate will be 1.81%.    Pseudo-random Noise Generator Jan - May 2015  * Reported defects and documented them in deviation log which is used to tracking defect status. Communicate with business users and developers to confirm project scope and defect solutions.  * Designed sustainable gate-level schematic and layout using L-Edit and assembled modules including D flip-flop, XOR gate and 2-input OR gate.  * Conducted DRC, extracted SPICE file and used T-Spice for simulation to check errors after each module construction completed.  * Simulated different supply voltages and temperatures to determine the highest-speed condition. Education Master of Engineering in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering Stevens Institute of Technology - Hoboken, NJ May 2016 Bachelor's in Electrical Engineer Jilin University of China - Changchun, CN August 2010 to June 2014 Skills Linux, Xilinx, Matlab, Visio, Spotfire, Ms office, Sql, Excel, Outlook, Powerpoint, Word, Windows, Technical Support, Networking