IT Engineer IT Engineer Forest Grove, OR 5 successful years of customer service and IT administration experience. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Engineer Pavelcomm - Portland, OR September 2014 to 2019 • Update and maintain a ticket queue for multiple clients to resolve issues in a timely manner.  • Resolution experience in small and enterprise scale infrastructures.  • Coordinated migration projects to 365 with team.  • Printer setup and maintenance. Technical Support Representative Peak Internet - Corvallis, OR April 2013 to September 2014 • Diagnose and resolve network and internet related issues.  • Guided clients through configuration of Personal and enterprise networks.  • Assisted with various hardware and software issues.  • Provided remote assistance.  • Maintained documentation of software configurations. Technical Lead Boys and Girls Club - Corvallis, OR April 2012 to April 2013 • Managed software and hardware upgrades for servers and workstations.  • Maintained Active Directory for the organization.  • Managed and coordinated with volunteers and children.  • Organized programs and taught basic troubleshooting to children.(network/Hardware)  • Printer setup and maintenance. Education Associate PCC 2019 to Present High school Diploma Portland Community College Skills Backups (5 years), Networking (5 years), Troubleshooting (5 years), System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin, Active Directory, Printers (5 years) Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/pe5gnth3dcvvrsgp Technical Support — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qnaumea1gdjpwn0 Project Management Skills: Time Management — Highly Proficient August 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/4ocsmhts-7gziv8e Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Experience:  - Virtual Environments  - Networking  - Hardware Deployment  - Active Directory  - Project Management  - PKI Certifications  - CRM (Tiger Paw)  - RMM (Remote Monitoring and Management)  - Windows Environments (Windows XP - Windows 10, Server and Exchange)  - IOS Environments (Mobile and Workstation)  - Purchasing and RMA  - MVLS  - On-Site Experience  - MSP