IT Systems Administrator IT <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Systems Administrator - Funai Corporation Harbor City, CA Work Experience IT Systems Administrator Funai Corporation - Torrance, CA May 2015 to Present Performed the following upgrades to VMware infrastructure with little to no downtime:  o vCenter 5 to vCenter 6.7  o ESXi 5 to ESXi 6.7  o Datastore upgrade from VMFS 3 to VMFS 6  • Managed Citrix Infrastructure. Performed upgrade from Xenapp 6.5 to CVAD 1903.  • Upgraded all Windows Server 2003/2008 servers to Window Server 2012 R2.  • Worked alongside IT Director to plan and perform company e-mail migration from Exchange 2010 to Office 365 with minimal interruption to business functions.  • Researched and implemented Druva InSync for remote file backup of the Sales and Marketing team due  to infrequent connection to the company network.  • Implemented Veeam Backup & Recovery for VM/file-level backups and disaster recovery.  • Configured MSA2040 SAN to expand VM and file storage.  • Provided Microsoft Dynamics AX support to IT Development team (security role access, code migration,  troubleshooting) and performed basic SQL database maintenance (configuration, migration, backup/restore)  • Run monthly/quarterly reports for JSOX auditing.  • Provide full help desk support throughout the company. System Administrator I Punch Studio, LLC - Culver City, CA March 2014 to May 2015 Build out and managed VMware ESXi 5.5 server environment to consolidate physical servers to reduce  energy consumption and plan for future infrastructure expansion.  • Domain controller upgrade from Windows Server 2003/2008 to Windows Server 2012. Setup secondary  domain controller for DHCP/DNS/AD replication.  • Mail migration from third-party hosted solutions (fat cow.com, gmail.com) to in-house mail server  (Smarter Mail) and created policies to enforce e-mail rules.  • SAN data migration from Promise M610P to Promise E610F. Worked with department heads to re- organize folder structure to streamline workflow using DFS-N, security groups, access-based enumeration,  and disk quotas.  • Deployed Spiceworks server for ticket tracking and asset management.  • Setup Windows Server 2012 WSUS server to download and manage Windows Updates locally.  Monitor backups and file restoration with Symantec Backup Exec 2014.  • Technical support for new and existing computer systems (Windows 7/MAC OS X) and maintenance on all printers (HP/Xerox/Canon Systems Administrator Murad, Inc - El Segundo, CA January 2013 to March 2014 • Set up and manage VMware ESXi 5.1. Provision and manage Windows 2008 virtual machines for development and production through VMware vCenter.  • Build, configure, and maintain Sophos AV Server to replace System Center 2012 Endpoint Protection.  Monitor virus/malware intrusions via Sophos Enterprise Console and provided monthly status report to management on web usage.  • Setup Windows KMS to centralize activation for all Windows 7 OS and Office 2010 products.  • File recovery and backup tape management via EMC Networker.  • Active Directory - Creation and management of user accounts and security groups.  • Exchange 2007/Exchange Online (Office 365) - Administration of all distribution and shared mailboxes in the Murad domain. Audit and maintain Office 365 license activation on all user accounts.  • GPO management - Creation/modification/management of all GPO's within the Murad domain.  • Executive level support for Service Desk department. Primary point of contact for the Torrance  Distribution Center regarding repair and maintenance of all Motorola RF scanners, all computer  equipment (desktop/laptop/printers) and servers (UPS World ship, file shares). Sr. IT Campus/Division Technician University of Phoenix - Gardena, CA January 2012 to January 2013 On-site technical and administrative support for new and existing computer systems (Windows XP/7),  peripheral devices and software systems.  Primary technician for the Gardena Learning Center and backup support for all learning centers in the  Southern California and San Diego areas.  Provided technical assistance to students in the Student Resource Center.  Support and maintenance of telephone systems through Avaya MSA. Desktop Administrator Murad, Inc - El Segundo, CA September 2010 to January 2012 • Daily support for 350+ users, including distribution center in Torrance and field users across the US.  • General duties - hardware and software support on HP systems running Windows XP/7 (desktop/laptop)  and HP printers, smartphone support (Android/iOS), MAC support, and virus removal.  • Primary technician for Torrance Distribution Center regarding repair and maintenance of all Motorola RF  scanners, all computer equipment (desktop/laptop/printers). Education University of Phoenix - Gardena, CA January 2012 to January 2013 Skills Active Directory (10+ years), Database management (4 years), help desk support (10+ years), System Administrator (6 years), Vmware (6 years), System Admin Links http://gmail.com Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) Present VMware Certified Associate - Data Center Virtualization Present CompTIA A+ Present