Linux Systems Administrator Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Linux Systems Administrator - DPSCS, State of Baltimore, MD Baltimore, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Linux Systems Administrator DPSCS, State of Baltimore, MD - Baltimore, MD April 2017 to Present Responsibilities  • Expert in Installation and Configuration of Linux server and management  • Expertise in establishment and configuration of Linux server and virtual environments  • Installed and configure Networker Backup. Indexing and scanning of tapes for backup  • Experience designing, implementing, maintaining and optimizing Disk Management utility,  • Configure and maintain user authentication using LDAP  • Performing needs assessment and patch management for Linux Enterprise systems.  • Infrastructure hardening and Security Administration & Installation on multiple systems  • Working knowledge with shell scripting using Bourne Again Shell (BASH)  • In-depth knowledge of Network, DNS, NFS, DHCP, NFS, FTP  • Installed and configured Symantec VERITAS NetBackup master, media and client servers.  • Provide the needs assessment, System administration and patch management  • Perform security management using Stateful and Stateless firewall (Security groups and ACL)  • Working knowledge with SAN, NAS (Disk Array RAID)  • Experience using YUM and RPM for package management  • RHEL virtualization with Kernel-based Virtual Machine (KVM)  • Virtualization (VMware, Xen, Hypervisor)  • Exposure to security concepts / best practices  • Experience managing full application stacks from the OS up through custom applications  • Troubleshooting user logins using various remote login utilities. Proficient in troubleshooting system Linux System Engineer Maximum Federal Inc - Vienna, VA February 2015 to March 2017 Responsibilities  • Designs Amazon Web Services architecture for new cloud computing systems or existing systems migrating to cloud architectures.  • Expert in provision of EC2, S3, Glacier, Route53, VPC, and SecurityGroups  • Expertise in establishment and configuration of Linux server and virtual environments  • Provide the needs assessment, System administration and patch management  • Perform security management using Stateful and Stateless firewall (Security groups and ACL)  • Automate managing of Systems using Ansible.  • Experience working in both virtualized and cloud environments across technologies such as Hyper-V, VMWare and AWS  • Experience designing, maintaining and optimizing AWS S3 and Disk Management utility LVM.  • Infrastructure hardening and Security Administration & Installation on multiple systems  • Provide deployment for scalable applications to container based technologies such as Docker  • Perform integration of new systems into enterprise environments.  • Querying and modifying items in directory service providers like Active Directory and LDAP environments.  • Automation experience using languages such as Python or Bash shell.  • Possessed oral and written communication skills with a keen sense of customer service.  • Expert in problem solving and troubleshooting skills.  • Working knowledge with shell scripting using Bourne Again Shell (BASH)  • In-depth knowledge of Network protocols and security, DNS, NFS, DHCP, NFS, FTP.  • Working knowledge with SAN, NAS (Disk Array RAID)  • Experience using YUM and RPM for package management  • Experience managing full application stacks from the OS up through custom applications  • Troubleshooting user logins using various remote login utilities.  • Monitored client disk quotas & disk space usage. System performance monitoring and tuning.  • Creating and Updating of the department's Standard of Operation (SOP). Linux Administrator Bank of America, CA December 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Installation and Configuration of Linux and win2k higher end & Midrange servers. Environment: Symantec antivirus console management, DNS, DHCP, and FTP configuration, configuring printers, modems and scanners, installing windows XP, win 7, Win 2003, 2008 and LinuxOS.  • Creating and managing user accounts in Active Directory.  • Monitoring networking and connectivity.  • Securing and performance tuning of Linux servers.  • Troubleshooting network, application, and server related issues.  • Scheduling of automatic repetitive Jobs, and Shell Scripts with Crontab.    • Adding/expanding new storage to existing/new systems using LVM, Veritas Volume management RHEL servers.  • Upgraded Linux Kernel using YUM.  • Experienced in User and Group administration and security issues.  • Provided server and client support for all issues such as logon failures, account lockout, network connectivity and authentication issues.  • Provided technical support for the users and resolving software/hardware issues.  • Performed hands-on administration and monitoring of Local Area network (LAN  • Experience with solar winds monitoring tools for servers and network devices.  • Resolved Microsoft desktop applications (Word, Excel, Power Point and Outlook) issues.  • Installation and configuring of Print Servers for Network printing.  • Monitor and maintain servers and routers.  • Assembled, configured, installed, tested and repaired computer hardware and software.  • Management of Active directory and windows server infrastructure.  • Provided technical support for the users and resolving software/hardware issues.  • Performed hands-on administration and monitoring of Local Area network (LAN  • Installation of various Operating Systems likeWin98, Win XP, Win NT, win 2000, Win 2003, Win 2008etc.  Environment: Solaris 8/9/10, Red Hat Linux 4/5, Sun Fire V95, IBM 225Series, SUN BLADE X6270, SUN BLADE X6250, Sun Ultra 20, Sun v210, Sun v240 Sun T5120, Sun Fire 120, Ibm x series 345. Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Networks and Cybersecurity University of Maryland Baltimore County - Baltimore, MD Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY (3 years), LDAP (3 years), VMWARE (3 years), BASH (3 years), SYMANTEC (2 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    Platforms:  AWS, Red Hat (RHEL 5, 6 and 7). CentOS 6 and 7 X86/X64 platforms, Windows 2003, 2008, 2012,  Server, Windows 7, VMware 5, Cloud Computing, AWS, KVM    Hardware: Dell PowerEdge R710, R420, M91, R520  Languages: Bash, Perl, HTML Ruby  Software: VMware, LDAP, Active Directory, Networker, BMC Remedy 7, Symantec NetBackup, VPN, MySQL Database, Apache, SMTP