Kubernetes & Sr. Devops Engineer Kubernetes &amp; Sr. Devops Engineer Kubernetes & Sr. Devops Engineer - Great American Insurance Group Devops Engineer with Nine plus years of experience in all phases of diverse Programming and Tools  technology projects specializing in DevOps. Team builder with excellent • Python Programming  communications, time & resource management & continuous client relationship • SQL, PL/SQL  development skills. • Grafana & Prometheus  • Chef, Ansible  • Jenkins  CAREER ACHIEVEMENTS • Docker, Kubernetes  • 9+ years of IT experience as Dev Ops Engineer/ Linux Administrator • Chef, Ansible, Puppet  • Experience in Linux Administration Installation, Configuration, Tuning and • Kickstart, Terraform.  Upgrades of Linux.  • Expertise on DevOps essential tools like Chef, Puppet, Ansible, Docker, Public Cloud Platform:  Kubernetes, Subversion (SVN), GIT, Hudson, Jenkins, Ant, Maven and • Azure  • Amazon Web Services: (EC2, S3,  migrated VMWAREVMs to AWS and Managed Services like EC2, S3,  CloudWatch, RDS, Elastic Cache,  Route53, ELB, EBS. IAM)  • Used Kubernetes to orchestrate the deployment, scaling and  management of Docker Containers. Operating Systems  • Performs necessary systems maintenance in accordance with Sun and • UNIX  RedHat best practices and Company change management policies. • Windows  • Created infrastructure in a coded manner (infrastructure as code) • HP open view  using Puppet, Chef and Ansible for configuration management of virtual • VMware vSphere and BDE  environments, and Vagrantfor virtual machine and resource control. • Docker, Kubernetes  • Worked on cloud-based servers like AWS and Azure.  Databases  • In-depth understanding of the principles and best practices of Software • MS Access, MS SQL Server  Configuration Management (SCM) processes, which include compiling, • MySQL  packaging, deploying and Application configurations. • Oracle  • Extensively worked with Version Control Systems CVS, SVN (Subversion),  GIT. Network Protocols  • Extensively worked with automation tools like Hudson, Jenkins and Build • TCP/IP, UDP, DHCP, HTTP, VPN,  Forge to implement the End-to-End Automation. DNS, NTP, FTP, SSH, and Telnet  • AWS and OpenStack to provision new machines for clients. S3 Storage Value-Added skills:  Services on AWS. • Quick learner, problem-solver  • Server provisioning, automation (Puppet/Chef/Ruby), maintenance and • Troubleshooting skills,  performance tuning analytical mindset  • Hands on experience in installing and administrating CI tools like • Team Building & Mentoring  Hudson/Jenkins, Bamboo and ALM tools like Anthill Pro and TFS. • Client Relations & Presentations  • Vendor Management Work Experience Kubernetes & Sr. Devops Engineer Great American Insurance Group July 2017 to Present • Worked on building the multiple Kubernetes clusters.    • Managed Kubernetes charts using Helm. Created reproducible builds of the Kubernetes applications, managed Kubernetes manifest files and Managed and releases of Helm packages.  • Designed and documented CI/CD tools configuration management.  • Orchestrated CI/CD processes by responding to Git triggers, human input, and dependency chains and environment setup.  • Used CI/CD tools Jenkins, Git/Gitlabs, Jira and Docker registry/daemon for configuration management and automation using Ansible  • Created Containers in Docker  • Automated and updated the security groups to allow only the specific CIDRs. In addition to that, automated  Iptables with puppet config.  • Automated our Kafka /Schema registry clusters to add/in corporate SSL/TLS. Schema registry is a JAVA app  and we added Nginx in front of it and enabled SSL.  • Containerized all the Ticketing related applications- Spring Boot Java and Node.Js applications using Docker.  • Used Spinnakar and Artifatory for pen source, multi-cloud continuous delivery platform for releasing  software changes with high velocity and confidence  • Created monitoring capabilities for all pieces of the infrastructure.  • Developed micro service on boarding tools leveraging Python and Jenkins allowing for easy creation and maintenance of build jobs and Kubernetes deploy and services.  • Worked on deployment automation of all the micro services to pull image from the private Docker registry  and deploy to Docker swarm cluster using Ansible.  • Worked with Open Shift platform in managing Docker containers and Kubernetes Clusters.  • Worked on infrastructure with Docker containerization and maintained Docker Images and containers.  • Implemented and managed Dynatrace on business social critical desktop and mobile applications.  • Resolved 30+ customer complaints everyday related to Jenkins, Git, Clear case, Nexus, Sonar, Java.  • Used Jenkins pipelines to drive all micro services builds out to the Docker registry and then deployed to Kubernetes, Created Pods and managed using Kubernetes  • Building/Maintaining Docker container clusters managed by Kubernetes Linux, Bash, GIT, Docker, on GCP  (Google Cloud Platform). Utilized Kubernetes and Docker for the runtime environment of the CI/CD system  to build, tests deploy. Senior Systems Engineer The Hartford Insurance July 2013 to June 2015 • Implemented EP Data Lake provides a platform to manage data in a central location so that anyone in the firm can rapidly query, analyze or refine the data in a standard way.  • Systems Engineer role responsible for creating new appliances with windows 2008 R2 EE SP1, SQL DB.  • Responsible for maintaining and sustaining the appliances with the latest hardware such as storage  controllers, its firmware upgrades etc.  • Worked on performing the benchmark tests for servers running the appliances and calculate the datawarehouse capacity.  • Worked with different teams from Microsoft to integrate the scripts into the appliance and test the functionality of the appliances with the UI framework developed by the team.  • Written scripts to work on a new method of performing an appliance factory reset from the SD cards located  on the server.  • Integrated with Platform teams and worked on the prototype servers. Installed the appliance on the prototype servers and reported any performance degrades caused by prototypes.  • Worked on setting a server with backup software such as NetVault backup software to perform database  backups running SQL/Oracle DB etc. System Administrator Mass Mutual November 2010 to February 2013 System Administrator role in a large team responsible for maintaining of different Unix operating systems  such as RHEL 3/4/5, Solaris 8/9/10, AIX 5.1/5.3/6.1, Windows servers.  • Experience in racking the IBM servers, maintaining the IBM blades using the HMC and Install different AIX on the P series servers and Linux on the Xseries IBM servers.  • Installed different application products such as Jboss 3.0/4.0/5.0 on linux servers and set up liferay tomcat  and work on setting up high availability between two application servers.  • Worked on different virtualization concepts in IBM P series servers such as LPAR, WPAR, and install different  OS such as Linux or AIX depending on the architecture of the server.  • Created VIOS (Virtual IO Server) and map the LPAR in the server, which will take care of n/w and storage  facilities for the servers.  • Designed several firewall rules in the ESX host as part of restricting the use of undefined ports.  • Experience in installing and configuring the OpenLDAP on the LDAP servers to maintain the users in domains.  • Performed master-master replication using the syncrepl on the OpenLDAP and master-slave replication  using slurpd.  • Worked on installing veritas products such as SFHA (Storage Foundation High Availability), and its sub  components such as Veritas Cluster Server (VCS) 5.0.  • Responsible for installation, configuration and support of WebLogic 10/9.2/8.1 on Sun Solaris 10 Servers. Skills Devops