Implemented site recovery manager Implemented site recovery manager Implemented site recovery manager - Cognizant Technology Solutions • Systems Administrator with 5.4 years of experience in Datacenter Operations, VMware virtualization, Windows, UCS and Storage Solutions.  • Experience in design & implement VMware products including Vrealize Suite, VMware Vcenter, SRM, Vrealize operations manager, Replication, VMware Update Manager & ESXI.  • Hands on experience in Vcenter Upgrade, ESXI upgrade & migration strategy from 5.1 to 5.5, 5.5 to 6.5, 5.5 to 6.7.  • Hands on experience in hyperconverged infrastructure Vblock 100,340, 540 and 740 & firmware Up-gradation of Cisco UCS. 2.1, 2.2, 3.1, 4.0(2d).  • Experience in design & implement UCS from scratch includes day-to-day administration i.e. creating service profile for new blades, VLANS.  • Experience in Designing the Datacenter Layout & cabling architecture & managing the datacenter includes Vendor management, Inventory management, maintaining and keep a track on hardware support & day-to-day operations.  • Experience in calculating the power & cage dimensions in datacenter for new requirement & implementing the monitoring for racks in datacenter.  • Hands on experience in pure storage operations and knowledge on Netapp A320.  • Experience in Powercli & PowerShell to automate the day-to-day operations in VMware environment.  • Experience in implement & Upgrade the NSX environment.  • Experience in SRM deployment, configuration and management.  • Experience in Citrix XenApp/ Xendesktop administration & Migration from legacy.  • Experience in with Virtualization technologies like installing, configuring, VMware vSphere. Creation, management, administration and maintenance of virtual servers and clients. Extensive knowledge in advance features of ESX VMOTION, SVMOTION, HA, quarantine mode, Proactive HA and DRS. Experience in P2V, V2V MIGRATION using VMware Converter & PlateSpin. Creating host and client VM templates and cloning.  • Experience on windows 2003, 2008, 2012 &2016, including zero day patch management, TLS & SSL configuration protocols, DHCP, DNS, SSL certificate renewal and day-to-day operations.  • Perform preventative maintenance & DR test in data center according to schedule and ensure effective working of servers.  • Unpacking servers, racking, cabling and installation of servers & equipment. Work Experience Implemented site recovery manager Cognizant Technology Solutions August 2016 to Present RESPONSIBILITIES:-  • Migrated from Vcenter 5.x to 6.x including ESXI upgrade and migrated 6000-production workloads to 6.7.  • Implemented site recovery manager 8.1 including categorizing the server based Tier level.  • Migrated from VCOPS to VROPS. Analyzing and reporting Virtual environment usage through VROPS and creating reports and projects.  • Cisco UCS firmware upgraded from 2.1(3c) to 2.2(4d), 2.2 (4d) to 2.2 (8f), 2.8 to 3.1 and 3.13 to 4.0(2d).  • Experience in implement & Upgrade the NSX environment.  • Design & implemented own converged infrastructure model to get rid off Vblock 340.  • Working on day-to-day administration on Cisco UCS & UCS central i.e creating service profiles, VLANS, VNIC templates & HBA templates.  • Performed Physical to Virtual on 100 physical servers including HP, Dell & cisco.  • Implemented ISCSI methodology in Vblock to augment the capacity.  • Performed DR test and were able to run the VM's from remote site. Successfully implemented own DR solution to Citrix Xendesktop infrastructure by scripting.  • Worked on windows 2003, 2008, 2012 &2016, including zero-day patch management, TLS & SSL configuration protocols, SSL cert renewal, AD, DNS and day-to-day operations.  • Experience in Citrix XenApp/ Xendesktop administration & Migration from legacy.  • Designed the Datacenter Layout & cabling architecture. Managed datacenter includes Vendor management, Inventory management & day-to-day operations including Unpacking servers, racking, cabling and installation of servers & equipment.  • Knowledge on Backup tools, like Avamar, Veeam & Commvault.  • Experience in day-to-day administration on pure storage array & Netapp A320 i.e. creating boot luns, Provisioning data luns and creating protection group to replicate the data to remote site. vCenter Update Manager server R Staffing Company LLC - Bloomington, IL June 2015 to August 2016 Bloomington, IL Jun 2015- Aug 2016 Client: - Keysight Technologies, Colorado Springs, CO  RESPONSIBILITES:  • Deployment of vSphere infrastructure from the ground up, including vCenter Server 5.1, External vCenter MSSQL Database server, vCenter Update Manager server, ESXi hosts installation and configurations.  • Upgraded Vcenter from 5.1 to 6.0 &Upgraded UCS manager from 2.1 to 2.2 (4d) and Migrated 2500 VM's from 5.1 to 6.0 U2.  • Implementation of stateless Cisco UCS service profiles with boot from SAN policy for ESXi hosts.  • Implemented Vrealize suite to create on-premises cloud infrastructure.  • Monitoring the datacenter using Vcops and HPOM. Deployment of vApp Templates and Catalogue Publishing. Configure SNMP based monitoring on all infrastructure components (ESXi hosts, vCenter, UCS, nexus switches) and integration with Alert logic & Qradar to troubleshoot and Resolve configuration related VMware issues.  • Configure and troubleshoot ESXI/ WINDOWS OS related issues on our servers. Participate actively in on-call rotations to support our data center infrastructure.  • Unpacking servers, racking, cabling and installation of servers & equipment. Managing the datacenter includes Vendor management, Inventory management & day-to-day operations.  • Day to day support and resolution of help desk tickets using HPOM tool. Systems Administrator Ozni Mobile Solutions (p) Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2012 to July 2013 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Served in computer maintenance, performed all types of hardware, software maintenance and engineering in addition to systems selection, backup and technical support.  • Installing, configuring and Windows 2003 servers of DHCP, FTP, WSUS and SQL Database Server.  • Creating and managing the users, groups, GPO in the Active Directory.  • Implemented, Managed ISA server 2004 with web filtering and Remote Access VPN.  • Implemented and managed McAfee Antivirus EPO Server and clients for LAN security.  • Monitoring of Internet usage, Antivirus statistics and reporting to Project Manager.  • Installation and Configuration of networks, router configuration and wireless access point/router with security, TCP/IP, VPN, Content Filtering, Access Control Lists on router/switches, VLANs (port mapping, naming etc.), and routing IP address in both LAN/WAN and wireless networks.)  • Investigated user problems, determined possible solutions, installation and upgrades.  • Creating a backup job and took backup of data center on daily, weekly basis. Education Master of Science Wilmington University - New Castle, DE August 2013 to May 2015 Master's in Information Assurance Jawaharlal Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2008 to May 2012 Skills CITRIX, VMWARE, XENAPP, CISCO, SOLARWINDS, AVAMAR, SRM, BLUEPRINTS, WINDOWS 2000, PRICING Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • VMWare Vcenter 6.x, 5.x, 4.x/ ESXI 6.x, 5.x, 4.x/ SRM 8.x, 6.x, 5.x/VCOPS 5.x/VROPS 6.x/VCD 2.x/ UCS 2.x, 3.x, 4.x/ Windows 2000.2003, 2008, 2012, 2016/IBM endpoint manager/ SCCM/ SCCD/ HPOM/ Solarwinds.  • VMware Vrealize Automation- i.e. creating blueprints, Create workflows using VRO, compute reservations, Network pools & pricing.  • Knowledge in Citrix XenApp 7.15 / XD 7.15 administration and VMware SDDC manager.  • VCE Vblock 340,540,740/ RCM code upgrade.  • NSX  • Knowledge on Commvault, Avamar, Veeam.  • Working Experience with cisco hardware UCSB200M2/ B200M3/ B200M4/ B200 M5, C series blades, Dell PowerEdge and HP ProLiant hardware.