Job Seeker 23 years of service with The United State Army. 5 years of experience as a light wheeled vehicle/power generation mechanic (63B). 10 years experience as a Quartermaster and Chemical Equipment repairer (63J). 8 years experience as an Electronic Warfare / Intercept Tactical Systems Repairer (33W). I have served in many shop supervisory positions, and in a military leadership position as a platoon sergeant. I have served as an Air Assault School instructor at Ft. Campbell, Ky. Possess a Top Secret Security Clearance with Special Compartmental Information (SCI) access. Airborne and Air Assault qualified. See attached DD 214 worksheet for detailed description of experience and qualifications. Work Experience U.S. Army - Fort Huachuca, AZ 2003 to 2005 Supervised and trained data collectors for the operational testing of multiple Intelligence electronic warfare (IEW) systems.  • Planned and managed necessary logistical resources for operational test events.  • Served as subject matter expert for IEW systems under test.  • Reviewed all test documents for systems undergoing operational testing. System design NCO, systems administrator, platoon sergeant U.S. Army - Fort Meade, MD 1998 to 2003 Repaired, maintained and tested PC and Sun computer hardware systems to include desktop and servers (IBM, Data General Corp., AT&T, Dell and Sun) for The National Security Agency (NSA).  • Provided support for a wide variety of printers of many manufacturers.  • Served as a systems administrator for Windows and Sun (Solaris) computer systems.  • Led soldiers consisting of 12 different occupational skills in direct support of NSA operations. Responsible for coordinating, conducting and evaluating training and counseling. Tracked and reported all duty and training statuses. Processed evaluation reports for non-commissioned officers.  • Supervised a maintenance team of soldiers at a forward deployed facility supporting the TROJAN Air Transportable Electronic Reconnaissance Set (TATERS) in Bosnia. U.S. Army - Fort Meade, MD 1996 to 1997 Responsible for equal distribution of support and service request among assigned garrison organizations and tenant organizations.  • Reviewed and coordinated support requests received from 58 tenant organizations and numerous off-post organizations and activities.  • Maintained tasking files on personnel, equipment and facilities, retrieving data from 18 directorates for the Garrison Commanders Master Events Long Range Calendar. Education AA in Intelligence Operations Cochise College