Sr. Systems Administrator Sr. <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Engineer Phoenix, AZ Misti Connolly    Technical Proficiencies:   Citrix  CRM  VoIP  VMware  SQL  Oracle  SharePoint  Crystal Reports  AS400  SAS  IBM Client  Active Directory  OnBase  PowerShell Scripting  VSphere  PeopleSoft  MS Access  Six Sigma Green Belt  Powershell  Linux box  Server Administration  Wire shark   Packet sniffing Work Experience Sr. Systems Administrator Master Electronics - Phoenix, AZ September 2016 to Present To handle all technical issues:  • Network cabling  • Adding wireless access points  • Upgrading patch panels  •  Managed a team of 5 system engineers.  • Managed and maintained all projects.  •  Resolved all issue’s to local Desktop, Software printers.   • Preformed computer refreshes.  • Deploy new software and hardware.  • Created access in Active Directory and set up security policies for the user with proper rights.  • Responsible for break fix for hardware/software issues related to Windows, Office 365, Exchange server, and PC issues remotely and onsite thru Gotoassist, Dame Ware, live meeting, Bomgar and Windows Remote Desktop.  • Installed , upgraded, all WIFI towers and servers.  • Patch servers, and handle penetration testing.   • Maintain all physical and cloud based servers, run VEEAM back up’s. System Administrator Brookfield relocation - Scottsdale, AZ January 2012 to August 2016 Systems Administrator  • Added user entitlements, create Desktop pool’s and assign VM.  • Maintained VM Machines, local machines and created images.  • Utilized VSphere and View Admin to troubleshoot and ensure datastore, VM health and events  • Resolved all issue’s to local Desktop, VMware, applications, and Onbase related occurrences  • Created patches for VMware imaging and server updates  • Deploy new software and hardware for data transfers  • Created access in Active Directory and set up security policies for the user with proper rights.  • Responsible for break fix for hardware/software issues related to Windows Outlook, Exchange, and PC issues remotely and onsite thru Gotoassist, Dame Ware, live meeting and Windows 7 Remote Desktop. Migration refresh tech Sait services - Phoenix, AZ June 2012 to June 2014 • Image and reimage all devices’ (Lenovo, Dell, HP, and Samsung Tablets desktops and laptops).  • Responsible for deploying new applications and hardware to support applications  • Ensure manual back and updates to Exchange servers and desktop transfers  • Set up peripherals and ensure they are functioning and replace repair any issues such as blue screen, extra ram, Jumping BIOS, sound cards, video cards etc.  • Use SCCM to upgrade and load new software  • Provide end user support correcting BIOS, fixing settings, assisting in VPN, and escalations such as re-racking a server, decrypting a crashed hard drive  • PMO experience with short term deadlines and had a small team about 8 to 15 people  • Updated the BCD ensures accuracy and also provides Rapid Onsite support in case of any potential issues with outages, servers, sip-trunking, and VoIP  • Interacted with associates to ensure scheduling and proper coordination for low down time. I have also increased my four man team to having the highest production, set up training manuals and how to effectively work tickets in HPSM  • Assisted in creation of a knowledge dashboard tool to assist with HR ticketing systems in a banking environment  • Tested and assisted in multiple software testing and ensure suitable for all operating systems (Linux Windows XP to Windows 8 and live environment.  • Run Queries in Microsoft Access, PeopleSoft and SQL Tier 2 Technical Support Nextiva - Scottsdale, AZ April 2011 to June 2012 • Set up all VoIP phones and adapters on the network  • Configured switches, firewalls to allow the sip traffic  • Bridged networks to ensure they our correctly set up and interface with applications Education AAS in Computer Information Technology Rio Salado Community College 2008 to 2012 Black Canyon High School 1994 to 1998 Skills Citrix CRM VoIP VMware SQL Oracle SharePoint Crystal Reports AS400 SAS IBM Client Active Directory OnBase PowerShell Scripting VSphere PeopleSoft MS Access (5 years) Certifications/Licenses Net+ July 2018 to July 2021 A+ Certified July 2018 to July 2021 Server+ October 2018 to October 2021 Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/f9mtjvvkzapvijaq Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Also in the middle of closing out cyber security certificate and degree with 4.0 gpa.