Linux System Administrator Linux <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Linux System Administrator Easton, PA Work Experience Linux System Administrator Choice Home Warranty-Edison NJ - Edison, NJ April 2016 to July 2019 Roles and Responsibilities:  •Responsible for the building, configuration and maintenance of both physical and virtual machines in the UNIX environment which consist of Red Hat Enterprise Linux(RHEL), CentOS servers  • Responsible for creating, deleting, copying and moving of files and directories.  • Used tar, star, gzip and bzip2 to archive, compress, unpack and uncompress files.  • Instrumental in Installation, customization, maintenance, testing, and troubleshooting the operating systems and other systems software.  • Responsible for creating and managing partitions and swaps on GPT and MBR disks.  • Creating and maintaining user accounts andmaintaining access rights.  • Created and managed access control list (ACL), diagnosed and managed permission problems.  • Configured cron jobs and set up collaborative directories.  •Performed hardware and software installations, upgrades and maintenance, kernel modifications and updates, file system management, patch administration and network configuration  • Transferred files from one system to another using FTP and SFTP.  • Worked with KVM and Vmware.  • Automated administrative tasks through scripting.  • Worked with Logical Volume Manager (LVM); create physical volumes, volume groups and logical volumes, extend and resize the volume groups when needed.  •Responsible for creating virtual machines and installing Redhat Enterprise Linux and CentOS on it  •set up YUM repository and install the patches with it.  • Managed package installations and upgrades using YUM and RPM  Provided guidance and troubleshooting for complex technical issues.  •Responsible for working on day to day administration tasks and resolves tickets using various ticketing systems.  • Monitor and analyze servers and resolve any problems, maintain systems reporting and Windows/Linux servers, alerts, disk space usage and need.  • Maintained existing programs/scripts and extended Linux system functionality as needed.  • Wrote shell scripts to incorporate automation in to day to day activities.  •Created, used, mounted, and unmounted vfat, ext4 and xfs file systems.  •Maintained necessary back-up of the important files and documented Linux scripts for future reference. Linux System Administrator ROYAL BANK OF CANADA - Mississauga, ON May 2013 to March 2016 Roles and responsibilities.  • Created users, manage user permissions, maintain User & File system quota on Linux servers.  • Configured volume groups and logical volumes, extended logical volumes for file system growth need  using Logical Volume Manager (LVM) commands.  • Maintained integrity of security with the use of group policies across domains.  • Configured and install Linux firewall security system SELinux.  • Supported users through email, on call and troubleshooting.  Provided support to customers running RedHat Enterprise Linux on their workstations.  • Maintained inventory of all components including systems and other hardware.  • Performed User Account management, data backups, and users' logon support.  • Configured LDAP Server and LDAP Client on Linux machines for authorization and authentication.  • Managed package installations using YUM and RPM  • Maintained user's data backup by creating particular user folder in File Server and applying security permission on folder.  • Applied necessary patches and updates.  • Installed, maintained and upgraded Linux server hardware and software according to security standards and best practices from the company.  Proactively monitored the environment to minimize the service disruption, prepare monitoring configurations and propose service improvements. Windows Systems Admin/IT Support Specialist Teleperformance - Montréal, QC February 2012 to May 2013 • Network configuration and basic troubleshooting, managed local storage (LVM)    • Implemented administration of Microsoft Windows servers'/Linux servers    • Worked with a team of System Administrators to support all systems to ensure maximum uptime and availability  • Proactively monitored all networked systems for alerts and problem scenarios, and respond rapidly to correct anomalies.  Created and maintained documentation regarding configurations, operations and troubleshooting procedures related to the Linux platform    • Provided day-to-day system support.  • Performed upgrade on Redhat Linux whenever required. Education Master's in Applied Mathematics MALARDALEN UNIVERSITY – Vastmanland, SWEDEN - Vastmanland Sweden August 2009 to August 2011 Bachelor's in Mathematics and Computer Science University of Buea - Cameroon - Buea- Cameroon September 2005 to September 2008 Skills Linux Administrator, Linux, Red Hat, System Admin, Vmware, Redhat, System Administrator Certifications/Licenses Red Hat Certified System Administrator July 2019 to July 2022 Redhat Certified System Administrator (RHCSA).  Certification ID 190-152-405    https://www.redhat.com/rhtapps/services/verify/