Systems Analyst <span class="hl">Systems</span> Analyst Systems Analyst - University of Washington, Bothell Bothell, WA Work Experience Systems Analyst University of Washington, Bothell - Bothell, WA March 2018 to Present Worked as part of the Systems team, responsible for managing the desktop and end user environment for the UW Bothell campus. Worked on monthly patching and updates on Mac and Windows, tested images and new software. Managed computer deployment process using scripts and automated tools, including Ghost Solution Suite, Munki Tools, ARD. Utilized Bash and Powershell scripts to administer and troubleshoot devices. Lead the JAMF testing and implementation planning project. Consulted on custom hardware orders. Served as an escalation point and trained junior staff on technical work. Worked alongside Infrastructure team on projects and daily tasks. Web Designer/ Systems Administrator Herrington Classic Homes - Wrightsville Beach, NC May 2010 to Present Redesigned the company website and manage new content, media, and updates. Increased web traffic and attracted new customers which have led to many new home sales. Manage Office 365 and Google G-Suite. Provide part time Windows/Mac support and training remotely. Perform all IT duties within organization. System Administrator/Sr. Desktop Support Technician Accenture - Redmond, WA September 2016 to October 2017 Sole IT employee at Redmond Office (200+ users onsite/remote), responsible for Mac and PC administration. Managed Office 365, Adobe, Slack, and all IT software licenses and purchases. Worked as a lead on the IT transition to Accenture: workstation migration, email and data migration. Handled new hire setup, system, software, account management, Active Directory, and company IT hardware. Purchased all computer hardware and made technical decisions to best serve company needs. Worked with outsource IT partner to support networking and hosting. Implemented new remote support software. Managed SIQ IT inventory stock of laptops, hardware, peripherals. Worked with outsource help desk to manage remote support during high volume periods. Supported consultants/coaches across the country as well as diverse staff of power users in Redmond office, and managed user IT needs. Managed and supported all IT user equipment in office including workstations, phones, printers. Business/Technical Systems Analyst University of California - Berkeley, CA November 2012 to May 2016 2 - Analyzed and resolved technical issues across campus involving Mac and Windows OS/ system errors, hardware errors, viruses, networking, and applications/software support. Worked on a small team providing Tier 2/3 support for over 1000 users. Supported multiple departments (Engineering, IT, Research/Labs, Finance, and Admin), senior staff, and advised on technical solutions to improve workflow and productivity. Handled advanced Mac/OS X team tickets and assisted coworkers with Mac training. Tested and created Windows/Mac images and created knowledge base articles. Worked with networking, engineering, and IT security teams to solve complex customer issues. Tested campus IT applications and Windows and Mac (JAMF) images. Provided remote support when efficient to quickly solve customer issues. Answered and solved urgent and critical calls/tickets from Top Level Staff and Faculty. Consistently met SLAs and received high ratings in metrics, performance review and from user surveys. Received 2 University Project Performance Awards. Helpdesk Analyst AKQA, Inc - San Francisco, CA September 2012 to October 2012 Technical analyst for creative designers and staff in Mac/Windows environment. Provided specialized application support and was responsible for imaging and deploying new computers as well as configuring and calibrating Apple monitors and systems for the designers. Tech Support Specialist La Jolla Institute for Immunology - Los Angeles, CA August 2011 to April 2012 Technical support for 300+ employee's Mac and Windows workstations in biomedical research institute. Specialized in troubleshooting Apple/Windows OS, software, hardware, and deploying workstations. Supported scientific applications and worked with vendors to configure software. Configured projectors, audio systems, and laptops for weekly guest speaker presentations. Quickly solved issues via walk-in help desk. Responsible for overall end-user experience. Customer Care/Support Specialist Squarespace, Inc - New York, NY June 2011 to January 2012 Online support for web building platform in high volume ticketing system. Provided live personal customer support, and worked with engineering team to test new features and diagnose bugs. Customer Questions - css, html, domains, web design tips and advice. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems Manhattan College - Riverdale, NY 2006 to 2010 Skills Mac, Macos, Active directory, Networking, Tcp/ip, Ghost, Tcp, Vm, Vmware, Unix, Imaging, Linux, Wireless, Vms, Data recovery, Training, Printers, Application support Additional Information Technical Skills  macOS - OS administration and application support. Diagnose and repair system errors. Imaging, networking, user support. Terminal/Unix commands. Time Machine/Apple software support. Training Windows users on macOS.  Microsoft/Windows - Win 10/8/7 OS and application support/troubleshooting. Networking, active directory, imaging, command line, remote desktop, new system setup, and removing viruses. Utilize Powershell scripts.  Networking - Troubleshooting TCP/IP and wireless issues. Configuring, troubleshooting, securing routers, switches, and network printers. Troubleshooting all networking issues on user's end.  Hardware - PC/Mac/Dell/HP upgrades, installations, and repair. Provide new hardware and product suggestions, life-cycle and upgrade advice. Knowledge of current Apple and PC hardware models.    Microsoft - Office 365 management. Active Directory basic management and Windows Domain environment troubleshooting. Basic Windows Server and Powershell.  VMs -VMware Fusion and Workstation, Parallels, and Virtual Box. VM Installation, Troubleshooting, and Management. Experience installing and supporting Win/Mac/Linux VMs.  Imaging - JAMF, Ghost, Apple Disk Utility, DeployStudio  Cloud - AWS training and homelab  Linux - supporting/basic configuration Linux (ubuntu, centOS, suse), data recovery, self study  Soft Skills