IT Technician/Junior Systems Administrator IT Technician/Junior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Technician/Junior Systems Administrator - Toledo Lucas County Health Department Toledo, OH To obtain a position in a high growth company with an opportunity to display and advance my skills with challenging projects and progressive learning while fulfilling the company's objectives and goals    TECHNOLOGY PROFICIENCIES  ? Software Application: Microsoft Office Suite (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access, Visio), Oracle VirtualBox, VMware ESXI, Hyper-V, Microsoft Exchange Online, Lotus Notes, Novell GroupWise, Veritas Backup Exec 20.4, Dentrix Enterprise (EHR system), Kronos WorkForce Ready, Novell Console One, E-Directory, ThreatTrack Vipre Console, FortiOS, Milestone Systems, Wordpress    ? Operating Systems: Windows Server 2008/2012/2016/2019 Windows 7, Windows 10, OpenSUSE, Kali Linux, Deft Eight Linux, Ubuntu Linux, iOS, Android    ? Hardware: Dell PowerEdge Series, Buffalo Terastation Series,    TECHNICAL QUALIFCATIONS  ? Experience in Desktop Support Specialist, Technical Support Specialist and Junior Systems Administrator  ? Experience in enterprise directory services (Active Directory, Novell Netware)  ? Experience with configuring switches, routers.  ? Knowledge of networking security with an emphasis on computer forensics, and configuration of FortiOS  ? Operating Systems Deployment (Windows Deployment Service, Clonezilla Server) Work Experience IT Technician/Junior Systems Administrator Toledo Lucas County Health Department - Toledo, OH April 2015 to Present Provide first line of support for the IT help desk, overseeing hardware, software, and peripheral support issues  ? Manage administration and software systems configurations  ? Maintain the upkeep of hardware and software inventory through asset management system  ? Educate the staff in the use of new operating systems and changing technologies (smart phones, tablets, WiFi, etc.)- implementing a knowledge base system  ? Responsible for maintaining, creating, and giving access privileges to user account for file sharing  ? Automated back-up solutions with different media types using the 3-2-1 method strategy  ? Developed a virtualization server environment by migrating physical servers into virtual machines  ? Developed and managed software and operating systems deployment using Microsoft Deployment Tool and Windows Deployment Services  ? Manage endpoint protection and backup solutions  ? Worked with Senior System Administrator planning migration strategy from Novell E-Directory to Microsoft Active Directory Services  ? Developed best practices and workflow solutions for EHR system  ? End-User training for Mitel VOIP phone systems and collaboration tools  ? Managed video security systems  ? Managed and content editor for organization's website Desktop Support Specialist BETCO. Inc - Toledo, OH May 2012 to April 2015 Help Desk support for thirteen end-users  ? Preventative Maintenance for hardware  ? Provide first line of support for the IT help desk, software, and peripheral support issues Education Associate of Applied Business in Networking Systems and Support in Applied Business Owens Community College May 2016 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ October 2018 to October 2022 Assessments Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/yq6d-q4bsrbb0rnr Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.