TS/SCI (active) Systems Administrator TS/SCI (active) <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> TS/SCI (active) Systems Administrator - CAE USA Aerospace Defense and Security Sacramento, CA Work Experience TS/SCI (active) Systems Administrator CAE USA Aerospace Defense and Security - Beale AFB, CA May 2019 to Present Administer and create user accounts for 250+ customers across a Joint Worldwide Information  Communications System (JWICS), Secret Internet Protocol Network (SIPR), and Non-Classified Internet  Protocol Router Network (NIPRnet) infrastructure.  • Inventory and conduct maintenance on critical mission systems and multibillion dollar equipment directly  linked to in-mission drones to ensure equipment is operational 24/7 and within mission standards.  • Run UNIX and Linux commands to update and support users for mission readiness and proper execution.  • Monitor, maintain, and secure Department of Defense Artificial Intelligence drone, Project Maven. Providing  system with needed updates, inputs, and ensuring proper security measures are being met.  • Maintain and calibrate system monitors utilizing KleinK10-A tool for multiple live world-wide mission ready  drone feeds resulting in increased mission effectiveness and accuracy when executing missions.  • Integrated new procedures for TS/SCI accountability, safety, and regulation. Resulting in avoidance of common practices dangerous to security (PDS) and aligning with Quality Assurance military standards.  • Implement technical knowledge and existing procedure to diagnose and correct system and component  malfunctions to achieve optimum operating efficiency. Analyze configurations, monitor operations of computer telecommunications, and networking systems. TS/SCI Lead Information Technician/Security and Systems Administrator USN Office of Naval Intelligence - San Diego, CA 2014 to 2018 Inventoried and tracked over 150 security systems and multimillion dollar equipment to ensure items are  managed, maintained and disposed of in accordance to security policies.  • Administered and created user accounts for 1000+ customers across a Joint Worldwide Information  Communications System Domain Infrastructure (JWICS).  • Conducted 20+ site surveys to prepare spaces for system and network installation ensuring all buildings, outlets, systems, and equipment are accredited and authorized in accordance to security policies and  procedures outlined in designated instructions.  • Managed over 6 teams that monitored networks and acted as first responders to network outages using local  monitoring systems to ensure systems are operational 24/7, maintaining a 98.9% uptime.  • Administered a local monitoring system to provide a platform for circuit troubleshooting and database storage  to ensure all users are qualified and have the correct access to fulfill job duties.  • Domain trusted agent, issuing or revoking access for over 1000+ personnel on a need-to-know bases on TS/  SCI information across a Joint Worldwide Information Communications System Domain Infrastructure.  • Accurately and efficiently administered loading and monitoring for 150+ cryptologic equipment and 200+  cryptologic keys.  • Supervised network system deployment, provided user account management for 1000+ domain users, and provided system hardware administration across a Joint Worldwide Information Communications System  Domain Infrastructure (Cisco routers, switches, VTC desktop support, and high priority cryptologic  equipment).  • Installed, maintained, repaired, and reworked electronic and/or electrical systems related to specific facilities, associated electronic/electrical components, and/or specialized equipment.  • Utilized electronic test equipment along with other tools to troubleshoot and repair systems and equipment.  • Managed hardware, software installation, and repair of state of the art electronics, computers and network  equipment utilizing analysis equipment, diagnostic software, hand tools, and technical publications to complete system integration.    Software Skills  Exchange Server 2010, Exchange Management Console, Microsoft Office, Windows (XP, Vista, 7,  10, Server 2003 and 2010), Solar Winds, SharePoint, Remedy. Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ February 2015 to February 2022 CompTIA A+ February 2015 to February 2022