Unix/Linux Systems Administrator Unix/Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - TechGlobal, Inc Laurel, MD SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR    Professional Summary:  Unix and Linux System Administrator with over 5 years of experience in a multi-platform Solaris 10 Operating System and Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Centos 6.4/7. Very Adaptable, collaborative, strong team player, detail oriented, multi-tasking. Excellent verbal and written communication skills; ability to work within strict deadlines. Experience in software installations, user and group administration, role base access control, file transfer and sharing; competent in file systems, Logical Volume Management (LVM), ZFS Volume Manager, Vmware exsi 6.4. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Unix/Linux Systems Administrator Trinitech Consulting Inc - Beltsville, MD July 2018 to Present •  Building, Installing, configuring brand new virtual and physical servers, test, deploy Solaris 10/11, RHEL 6/7, CentOS 6.4/7 servers to the network: OS installation and configuration – standard and advanced (kick start).  • User Account Management.   Experience in TCP/IP, HTTP, HTTPS, DHCP, SSH, SSL, DNS, VPN, PKI; NFS, CIFS, and samba servers in a multiplatform LAN.  • User Account Management. Troubleshoot user account password.  •  System backup/Recovery.  • Experience working with IAM in order to create new accounts, roles and groups  • Performing multi-platform volume management using LVM, ZFS volume manager, and VERITAS volume manager; installed and configure a LAN wide NAS (Free NAS) used for creating LUNs and attaching to windows 2008 servers and to Solaris 10 servers using iSCSi.  • Experience in configuring VERITAS manager and migration on Unix servers  • Basic knowledge in Bash Shell Scripting to schedule and automate  • Experience in troubleshooting Solaris and Linux servers.  • Experience in Solaris Zone (Build, configure, secure and deploy Solaris 10 system (global).  • Setting up a domain and an Active Directory on a Windows 2008 server; install and configure a samba server on a Solaris 10 and mapping to the windows 2008 server.  • Knowledge in LDAP configuration.  • Responsible for data management using native Solaris utilities for archiving, compression backup and restore.   • Experience in Apache.  • Participating in root-cause analysis of recurring issues and security setup, Provide 24X7 support.  • Experience in building and managing servers with VMware Exsi6. Junior Systems Administrator Bridges Inc - Hanover, MD January 2017 to April 2018 • Performed multiplatform Server builds on VMware, which included Windows Server 2008, UNIX Solaris 10, LINUX Centos 6.4, and RHEL 6.4. DNS addresses to Windows 2008 Servers so as to introduce them to the network. Used the “dcpromo” tool to configure DNS, Active Directory as well as to promote standard Windows 2008 servers to domain controllers   • User Account Management  • Built and deployed virtual servers from scratch.  • Experienced in troubleshooting Solaris and Linux servers.  • Setup, configured and troubleshot SSH, TCP/IP, DHCP, CIFS, DNS, NFS, and Samba servers in a multiplatform LAN  • Windows 7 and configurations and software deployment. Created new User accounts and profile on Windows NOS, UNIX and LINUX systems. Troubleshot and resolved OS.  • Applied malware desktop related issues on various Windows NOS. Used TCP/IP troubleshooting tools to troubleshoot and resolve network connectivity and DNS related issues in the LAN.  • Configured Windows NOS clients to join the domain as well as configure file and print sharing on some Windows NOS to enable resource sharing.  • Knowledge in LDAP server. Desktop Support Technician Sparks Group - Greenbelt, MD 2008 to 2012 • Responsible for the ongoing maintenance and future planning needs of the company’s desktop environment.  • Collaborated with existing vendors to evaluate the new technology that is available and make recommendations to management on using that technology.  • Consulted with IT support and design departments to make sure that network and expansion projects were in line with the company’s plans.  • Monitored the performance of the company’s desktop infrastructure and made suggestions for improving efficiency.  • Evaluated applications and software patches for desktop applications to see if they will solve desktop issues.  • Tested and troubleshot clients’ equipment remotely and on-site  • Configured clients’ servers and workstations  • Oversaw technical installations and support projects for new and existing clients. Education Some college Associate Scrum certified Skills Linux, UNIX, Windows7 and 10, VMware, Solaris. (2 years), Vmware, System Administrator, System Admin, Linux, Linux Administrator, Redhat, Active Directory, SCCM, Red Hat Certifications/Licenses Scrum Master