Senior System Admin Senior <span class="hl">System</span> Admin Senior System Admin - Accenture department Austin, TX • IT Professional with over 7+ years of experience in the area of Virtualization with Installation, Configuration, Administration, Support of VMware ESX 4.0, VMware ESXi 4.1/5.0/5.1/5.5/6.0 vCenter Server 4/5/6 and Windows Server 2003/2008/2008R2/2012.  • Expertise in the area of Virtualization with Installation, Configuration and Administration of VMware ESX 4.0, VMware ESXi 4.1.1/5.0/5.1/5.5/6.0, and vCenter Server 4/5/6.  • Expertise in advanced features of ESX/ESXi 4/5, vMotion, Storage vMotion, HA, DRS, and Update Manager.  • Xenapp's off Winframe/Metaframe/Presentation Server/XenApp  • Experience in configuring and upgrading Flex-10 Shared Uplink Sets, SAN Fabrics, and Server Profiles on Virtual Connect Manager for BL460c, BL680c g6/g7/g8/g9 on HP C7000 enclosures.  • Expertise with maintaining and updating the Domain Controllers and RODC in Windows Server 2003/2008.  • Experienced in running RHEL 5/6, SUSE 10/11 and ESXi on Cisco UCS 5100 enclosures running  B200's, B250's blades.  • Experience in creating WWPN, WWNN, and IQN Pools for FC and iSCSI Storage connectivity for storage provisioning on UCS profiles.  • Expertise in configuring Management pools for any current and future Cisco UCS blades that are added to the Cisco UCS environment.  • Experience configuring EMC PowerPath for all bare metal Linux Servers to ensure multipath policies as well as PowerPathVE for all ESXi servers.  • Experience in creating protection groups, recovery plans, test DR plans, and SRA's in SRM 5/6.  • Experience deploying and configuring vCloud director to coordinate with VMware Orchestrator to deploy vApp's, and VDC's.  • Experience utilizing vMotion, SvMotion for large datacenter migrations to migrate from EMC Clariion to EMC VMAX 20k Storage Arrays.  • Expertise in supporting enterprise level windows system administration  • Experience with Server Monitoring & Alerting  • Familiar with linux (debian, redhat)  • Scripting - PowerShell & batch scripting  • Experience with Windows based DHCP, DNS, File, Print, and Proxy server administration  • Strong experience, Active Director  • Strong experience, GPO Work Experience Senior System Admin Accenture department January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Install, configure and maintain web/application servers  • Administered and supported cloud based services including Box, Webex and SharePoin, SFTP, HTP.  • Maintenance/Configured/Monitor Oracle databases and Web servers using IBM Web Sphere and HTTP servers. Helped troubleshoot issues involving development projects and software customizations.  • Investigates application logs to uncover and address error patterns  • Troubleshot and resolved bugs in .NET applications to ensure optimal development environment.  • Hosting responsibilities will encompass security, access control, load-balancing, data sources, one and two-way SSL setup and certificates.  • Windows Web administrator IIS 6.0 7.0 with extensive experience installing, configurations, integrations with ASP.NET, .Net Framework 2.0,3.0 3.5 Configuration.  • Designed and Implemented SCOM 2012 environment with multiple management groups monitoring over 10,000 servers and devices.  • ADFS Design and implementation in Multiple Forests and Multiple Domains, Web access and Single Sign On  • FIM Design, installation and troubleshooting in Multiple Forests, Multiple Domains  • Responsible for architecting, designing, implementing and supporting of cloud based infrastructure and its solutions.  • Managing Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure with automation and orchestration tools such as installing, configuring instances.  • Experienced in creating multiple VPC's and public, private subnets as per requirement and distributed them as groups into various availability zones of the VPC.  • Created NAT gateways and instances to allow communication from the private instances to the internet through bastion hosts  • Installing, configuring StrongSwan, side to side tunnel to connect to vendors and contractors. Senior System Admin VA department October 2017 to January 2019 Responsibilities:  • Install, configure and maintain web/application servers  • Implement and upgrade vaproducts  • Establish and maintain documentation and standards  • Deploy J2EE and .NET applications in Windows and UNIX environments  • Maintaining and implementing data sources, SSL certificates, API integrations, and extensions of web the architecture.  • Create, maintain, and use scripts to automate routine tasks and gather data for performance tuning  • Monitor server and application performance, resource utilization, and assist the other departments and Systems Administrators in forecasting resource needs.  • Install web Infrastructure application patches/fixes and plan/implement upgrades  • Monitor server and web application server logs with a deep understanding of java application logging  • Perform advanced problem determination and root-cause-analysis  • Document technical environments, processes, procedures, test and project plans  • Assist Development and Project teams in designing applications consistent with established architecture  • Assist with capacity planning, architecting new environments, and long term resource forecasting  • Windows Web administrator IIS 6.0 7.0 with extensive experience installing, configurations, integrations with ASP.NET, .Net Framework 2.0,3.0 3.5 Configuration  • Making sure of High Availability of PRODUCTION Infrastructure. VMware Systems Administrator Alcoa - New Kensington, PA August 2014 to October 2017 Responsibilities:    • Installing and configuring ESXi 4/5/6 using custom based ISO's and Boot From SAN based installs on several hundred CISCO UCS B200's, B250's as required for UAT/Production deployments of Windows 2003/2008/2012 and RHEL/SUSE deployments.  • Installation of ESXi 5.0/5.1/5.5/6.0 Hosts, vCenter Server, vCenter update manager and administering VM's across 7 Datacenters running 10000+ VM's  • Responsible for capacity planning, design, install and configuration of newly provisioned CISCO 5108 enclosures, ESXi servers running B200's, B250's.  • Install, Configure and update VMware ESXi 4.1 to VMware ESXi 5.0/5.1/5.5/6.0, vCenter 5/6 Servers.  • Engineered and migrated 400+ Windows Servers from physical to virtual using VMware converter  4.3/5.0 as part of a large datacenter migration project.  • Deploy VMware Operations Manager Suite (vCOPs) for enterprise level monitoring, resource utilization and weekly and monthly reports.  • Implementation of SRM 5.0 on vSphere across multiple sites to provide Disaster recovery solution for VMware vSphere Environment and working with SAN team to replicate storage across multiple datacenters.  • Deploy and configure vCloud director to coordinate with VMware Orchestrator to deploy any specific VDC's and vApp's.    • Deploy various private cloud VMs and VM builds for Middleware Testing environments using VMware vCloud Director/vShield.    • Provide level high support for ESXi servers running on HP ProLiant BL460's/HP DL 580's/380's and Windows/Linux Virtual Servers.  • Active Directory user and security group creation in AD, create shares and designate permissions for specific groups.  • Configure and maintain Host Profiles, Distributed Switch, DRS, vMotion, Sv-Motion, Resource pools, permissions, Patches, Snapshots, Tools Upgrade, disk expansions, and Templates.  • Deploy various private cloud VMs and VM builds for Middleware Testing environments using VMware vCloud Director/vShield. Skills Git, SCRIPTING, CISCO, NAS, PUPPET, SCOM, VMWARE, EMC CLARIION, CLARIION, VMAX, VNX, ISCSI, NETAPP, RED HAT, APACHE, LINUX, JIRA, SQL, CLOUDFRONT, EBS