IT Systems Administrator IT <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Mishawaka, IN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Systems Administrator Dometic - Elkhart, IN February 2017 to Present IT System Administrator, Dometic      Acts as the IT administrator for multiple locations; covering office, warehouse, and manufacturing environments. Provides a wide array of IT support ranging from end user support, to server maintenance, to project work.  • Manages IT inventory for all administered sites   • Works with office department supervisors and plant managers to recognize new technology needs and then orchestrates with multiple company resources to achieve newly set IT goals.  • Deals with multiple vendors and contractors to meet IT necessities  • Manages company’s digital signage using MVIX  • TCP/IP, LAN, Wi-Fi troubleshooting  • Works with networking team to identify and resolve potential networking issues, utilizing multiple tools such as: SolarWinds and Wireshark  • Monitors third party hosted servers on VMware platform using VSphere client.   • AD Maintenance   • Troubleshoots file and print servers, physical and virtual on Hyper-V platform (Windows Server 2008 R2, 2012 R2, 2016)  • Does tape site backups using Backup Exec      Extensive support work done on factory and warehouse shop floors.  • Provides support for shop floor CLI, Linux based, terminals  • Technical and networking support for scan guns and mounted barcode scanners  • CNC and other production machinery networking   • Services Zebra label printers  • Manages Asure time clocks  • Provides support, from the ground up, on a plethora of other shop floor devices such as: IR cameras, Serial Servers, etc. From hardware and software installation, to configuration, to system network communications.  • Coordinates with control engineers to ensure consistent communications between PLCs and our data network.   • Manages manufacturing software licensing utilizing FactoryTalk       Provides exceptional end user support   • Provides support over the phone, email, onsite, and remotely using TeamViewer and DameWare.  • Windows 7 and 10 support  • Mobile device support (iPhones, Androids, Windows Tablets/Surface)   • Manages incidents using our FreshService ticketing system.  • Hardware deployments, break/fix.  • Software installation, configuration and troubleshooting.   • Mapping of users’ network drives and printers  • Client-side networking issues  • Virus removal   • Peripheral setup and configuration  • Office printer support IT Specialist The Bowen Center - Warsaw, IN November 2015 to February 2017 Worked in a dynamic, multi-faceted environment, providing technical support for:  • Windows office users  • Remote users on Mac and PC platforms  • Users on Linux Ubuntu thin clients, which were mainly used to connect to our Citrix environment.   • Tracked hardware and software inventory using Dell KACE        Provided courteous and timely support to end users.  • Provided support via phone, email, remote connection, and onsite.  • Managed and documented incidents utilizing Jira Service Desk.  • Remote support is performed using Bomgar for Windows Clients, and VNC Viewer for Linux thin clients.   • Mapping user network drives.  • Printer installation and management via Print Logic  • Software installations and troubleshooting  • Hardware troubleshooting and repair  • Malware removal  • TCP/IP, LAN, Wi-Fi troubleshooting  Provides troubleshooting and account support for multiple systems:  • Active Directory  • Avatar  • WikID   • Interaction Desktop  • Citrix (interfaced using Citrix Director)  • Kronos  Assists with monitoring and maintaining the company’s VMware environment.  • Builds and clones new VM servers  • Performs OS upgrades as needed  • Monitors VM resource and network usage using vSphere Web Client  Wireless network setup  • Implemented wireless capability at select locations using Meraki Aps  • Configured wireless encryption; WPA2-Enterprise 802.1X  • Synched APs with RADIUS server  • Assisted users in getting onto the network   Executed company wide time clock upgrade  • Setup and configured new Kronos timeclocks  • Configured each of the timeclocks accordingly (based on each location)  • Performed actual physical installation of new units   • Trained site managers in usage of the new clocks, e.g. how to enroll and un-enroll employees.  • Continued to provide residual support as needed  Desktop Support Technician TekSystems - Warsaw, IN May 2014 to November 2015 Worked on contract at Zimmer Biomet in Warsaw, IN  • Interacted with end users and provided them with a wide range of technical support that was given in a polite and timely manner.   Provided desktop support to end users.  • Managed and documented tickets in queue using BMC Remedy   • Extensive use of the LANDesk Management console suite  • Provided support in person, over the phone, email, and remote connection (LANDesk remote and RDP).  • Quickly assessed each issue and determined the quickest and most effective plan of action to resolve it, or assessed whether or not if an issue needed to be escalated.   • Software installations and upgrades  • Deployed new hardware including computers, printers, scanners, iPhones etc.  • Hardware and software troubleshooting and repair on office and shop floor machines.  • TCP/IP, LAN, Wi-Fi troubleshooting  • Virus and malware removal  • Data recovery and restoration using mixed tools; primarily Druva inSync  • Mapped network drives and printers  • Peripheral setup and configuration  • Handled warranty claims for qualifying hardware.   • Executed equipment terminations: removed old computers from AD, and managed chain of custody forms  Worked with Zimmer Biomet’s Windows 7 deployment team which was responsible for the enterprise-wide migration from Windows XP to 7.  • Replaced old XP workstations with new Win7 workstations, or performed in place upgrades depending on the user’s current hardware.   • Imaged new workstations, or hard drives (for in place upgrades) via a PXE server  • Migrated the user’s profile settings and data files after OS upgrade  • Ensured that all proper documentation is complete (e.g. asset change forms)  • Provided any additional support that may have been needed after the upgrade was complete.  • Kept track of progress by utilizing SharePoint for collaboration.   Filled the application technician role on a capital project involving a large scale setup of workstations and 2D scanners.  • Performed site surveys for desired locations  • Worked directly with the engineering team and vendors to determine the best product (scanner) to go with in terms of functionality, reliability, and monetary cost, essentially determining which device has the best overall value for the company  • Reviewed data compiled by engineering team  • Configured workstations and scanners to fit desired functionality.  • Did hardware testing for desired devices  • Was responsible for the actual physical setup of workstations, scanners, and other peripherals. Network Systems Technician IP Solutions - Mishawaka, IN March 2014 to May 2014     Provided technical support for commercial and industrial clients in a courteous and professional manner.   • Network setup and troubleshooting  • Hardware and software troubleshooting and repair  • Created and applied system images  • Mapped shared drives and printers  • Worked on several small scale Windows XP to 7 migration projects Remote Services Technician Support.Com Inc. - Elkhart, IN March 2013 to March 2014 Provided excellent customer service to residential users.   • Troubleshot computer and networking issues; fixing issues via remote connection or phone therapy  • Network setup and repair  • Setting network configurations for all major operating systems  • All aspects of router configuration (setting network credentials, port forwarding, DMZ, etc.).  • Setup file and printer sharing  • Keeping track of , monitoring, and documenting incidents using the Ninjato ticketing system  • Understanding the scope of the issue and escalating it to higher tiered support if required. Education Bachelor's in IT--Cloud and Systems Administration Western Governors University - Salt Lake City, UT 2015 to Present Associate in IT--PC and Network Support and Administration Ivy Tech Community College - Goshen, IN 2011 to 2014 Skills Active Directory, Vmware, System Administrator, Windows 7, Windows 10 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Cloud Essentials July 2019 to Present CompTIA Project+ April 2016 to Present CompTIA Security+ April 2013 to April 2022 CompTIA Network+ November 2012 to April 2022 CompTIA A+ April 2013 to April 2022