Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Tampa Bay Tech Solutions Lutz, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Tampa Bay Tech Solutions August 2017 to Present One of the largest MSP's (Managed Service Provider) in the bay area  ? Supporting over 140+ Clients in the surrounding Tampa Bay Area  ? Work daily with a plethora of platforms including both Windows and Linux  ? Manage Office365  ? Manage Active Directory  ? Manage backups  ? Daily usage of ticketing system and Screen Connect for Remote Login  ? Team player, works well with team to ensure all clients are satisfied Systems Administrator Excel Network LLC June 2015 to May 2017 Responsible for Tier 1 all the way to System Administration tasks  ? Responsible for asterisk server management  ? Responsible for Linux Mint installations  ? Responsible for Windows maintenance  ? Maintain ViciDial and GoAutoDial software  ? Point of contact for third party vendors  ? Maintain IP Tables and port configurations for remote agents and Executive staff at home access  ? Configure and implemented new HP Smart Switches  ? Manage FTP and SFTP clients  ? Manage asterisk logs and backups  ? Setup VPN and an IPMI KVM with our off site colo  ? Ensure stability for servers on site and off site  ? Manage carrier balance and DID's Network/ Systems Administrator Vantage Point Title February 2015 to March 2015 Responsible for implementation of network scanning tool  ? Active Directory GPO Script manipulation for security  ? Mobile Device Management (MDM) research and implementation  ? Research and create Staff Security Assessment PowerPoint and Test  ? Maintain ticketing system and escalations  ? Point of contact for third party vendors Staples - Certified Tech December 2014 to January 2015 Responsible for sales and technical quotas met each week  ? Phone and hands on support for Windows/Mac machines  ? Imaging and repairing computers  ? Configuring and setting up new computers for display  ? Maintaining a clean and stocked work environment  ? **Helped bring the tech center back up to company expectations** Jr. Systems Administrator AGR Group Inc December 2012 to August 2014 Maintained local domain and network resources  ? Managed network security via Group Policy Management  ? Managed Active Directory Users and Groups for over 400 users  ? Installed, configured and maintained hardware and software  ? Installed network cabling and components as needed  ? Performed various preventative maintenance for all networked components  ? Utilized Microsoft Excel & Word on a daily basis to manage client inventory  ? Managed local data center with Windows 2008 and CentOS 6 servers  ? Configured and managed SIP peering with dedicated and load balanced telephony service providers  ? Configured and managed Office 365 Enterprise  ? Managed Microsoft Exchange  ? Used PowerShell to script administrative tasks  ? Used SQL to troubleshoot various issues with MSSQL database driven software  ? Created a standardized platform for all server and workstation builds Technical Lead Staples - Certified Tech March 2010 to December 2012 Responsible for keeping up to date on inventory  ? Responsible for customer support and interaction  ? Phone and hands on support for Windows machines.  ? Configuring and setting up new computers for display  ? Responsible for fixing and repairing computers in tech bay Skills Active Directory (2 years), DHCP (Less than 1 year), DNS (Less than 1 year), Exchange (1 year), Linux (2 years) Additional Information Key Skills  Proficient in or familiar with:  Active Directory & GPO, Enterprise Antivirus OS Imaging MS Exchange  DHCP, DNS VMWare Network Administration Linux CLI experience SSH Compliance Windows Server & Client Asterisk 11.x