Contracted as Systems Administrator Contracted as <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Tempe, AZ ? Reliable and able to work independently with little direction  ? Committed to the task at hand with an excellent attention to detail.   ? Assist with planning service capacity, forecasting demand, analyzing software performance, and tuning systems  ? Sustain servers, load-balancers, and data storage found in various places  ? Experience in high bandwidth HTTP traffic, content delivery and caching  ? Familiarity with network operating systems - scripting language   ? Solid grasp of clustered and virtual storage solutions  ? Experience with Active Directory, WSUS, DHCP, DNS, GPO, VPN, File and Storage Services, IIS, NPAS, RDP, Print services, and PowerShell  ? LAN, WAN Design/Administration  ? Microsoft Office 365 experience  ? Wide ranging experience with MS Windows 10, 8, 7, and XP  ? Comprehensive knowledge of VoIP and 3CX  ? Well-founded grasp of VPNs (virtual private networks)  ? Experience with Windows Server 2003, 2008, 2012, and 2016 -- Linux and VMware  ? Experience with Network Administration, OS installation, desktop support, and software licensing  ? Experience resolving application issues, website hardening, and solving network and security problems  ? Experience maintaining business critical Disaster Recovery program  ? Experience monitoring security profiles and antivirus software  • Experience Facilitating risk/threat vulnerability studies and impact assessments.   • Experience managing all related vendor support contracts and assigned vendor resources. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Contracted as Systems Administrator Metco Metal Finishing LLC - Phoenix, AZ April 2018 to Present • Administration of the following software/technologies: CSI Visual Shop, Adobe Acrobat DC, QuickBooks, Offce365, SQL Server 2014, Visual Studio 2008, and Office 2013, Trend Micro antivirus, Acronis and Veeam backup solutions, Acronis cloud backup, Spice works ticketing system, VMware ESXi 5, Site-to-site IPsec VPN between WAN locations, End-user OpenVPN, IIS for SQL reporting, LAPS, Cloudflare DNS, Azure Active Directory, SharePoint, and PowerShell and batch scripting for automation.  • Administration of the following Hardware: HP ProLiant DL360 G7, Ubiquiti Wifi APs, Cisco SG200-26 Switches, TNAS, Raspberry Pi, SonicWALL firewall, Netgear GSM7248 switches, Epson projectors, Linksys switches, industrial mini-PCs, APC UPS battery backups, PA intercom systems, Yealink phones, and Sceptre/ASUS/Dell/Acer/AOC/HP monitors.  • Asset management and quarterly reports on department.  • Administration of Backblaze cloud backup Systems Administrator Triumph Manufacturing LLC - Tempe, AZ April 2018 to Present • Administration of the following software/technologies: Dasi Solidworks, ASI DataMyte Engage, Autodesk AutoCAD 2010/FeatureCAM, Minitab, Trusted Linked OpenText EDI, Bartender, Adobe Acrobat DC, MP2 5, QuickBooks, OpenSync, QCBD, Predator, Cimplicity 5, Offce365, SQL Server 2008 R2 and 2014, Visual Studio 2008, Office 2010 and 2013, Trend Micro antivirus, Acronis and Veeam backup solutions, Acronis cloud backup, Spice works ticketing system, VMware ESXi 5 and 6.5, Site-to-site IPsec VPN between WAN locations, End-user OpenVPN, IIS for SQL reporting, LAPS, FileZilla FTP for website management, CAcert, Cloudflare DNS, Azure Active Directory, SharePoint, PowerShell and batch scripting for automation, and company website design and administration.  • Administration of the following Hardware: Dell PowerEdge R410, 2950, R730xd, Mikrotik cloud switch, Qnap, TP-link T1600G-52PS Layer 3 Switches, Ubiquiti Edge Switches, Ubiquiti Wifi APs, Cisco SG200-26 Switches, Netgear GS108PE PoE switches, 3com 3300 and 4500 switches, Latronix time clock system, Pfsense firewall with pfBlockerNG and Suricata IDS, Raspberry Pi, AnywhereUSB/2, Netgear GSM7248 switches, Epson projectors, Epson SureColor T3270 plotter, Linksys switches, industrial mini-PCs, APC UPS battery backups, PA intercom systems, NEC phones, Sceptre/ASUS/Dell/Acer/AOC/HP monitors, Acer UPS Power Switches, and Datamax label printers.  • Asset management and quarterly reports on department.  • Manage one employee for six months. Level I/II Support Technician Kryterion - Phoenix, AZ October 2010 to March 2018 • Worked with Program Managers (PM) and Development staff to address software and database issues.  • Managed all required materials needed for PDF certificates and contracted location payments.  • Level I/II Help desk and KTN Administrator support to users of proprietary software on Windows and Mac systems.  • Created 500+ knowledge base articles that detailed how to resolve known issues.  • Salesforce and Zendesk ticketing system to document troubleshooting steps  • Designed end-user system check page on company website to improve customer service  • Reset end-user user passwords and updated account information  • Mentored coworkers on correct troubleshooting processes Education Bachelors in Information Technology Security in Information Technology Security Western Governors University - Salt Lake City, UT Associates of Applied Science in Networking Technology in Networking Technology Jefferson Community College - Watertown, NY Links http://linkedin.com/in/timothygilbertson Certifications/Licenses Microsoft MCSE Core Infrastructure Present Microsoft MCSA Server 2012 Present CompTIA Cybersecurity Analyst (CySA+) April 2021 CompTIA Project+ Present CompTIA Linux+ Present CompTIA A+ April 2021 Cisco Certified Meraki Network Operator (CMNO) Present Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/m7ywrsuhyi-brck Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/bvhjoe0vmni6tdsz Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.