Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer Phoenix, AZ Work Experience Systems Engineer Ongoing Operations - Phoenix, AZ June 2018 to Present • Respond quickly to any client request by phone, email, or in person ensuring a support ticket is opened and updated with any activity and time spent resolving the issue.  • Performs preventative maintenance on services provided to clients and on the company infrastructure documenting activity and preventative maintenance results.  • Supports users in a cloud environment (using Citrix App Center, cloudworks, and Citrix XenApp)  • Provide remote Office 365, Citrix, VMware, MS Server post-migration support to end-users  • Sets up, maintains, and deletes users; assists with voice mail and phone tree messaging; and makes appropriate changes to phone system as required.  • Participates in disaster recovery response overseeing workspace, physical network connections, phone system changes, and any other needs as assigned by supervisor during response to a disaster declaration or critical client system outage. In the event of a disaster or production down event, is responsible to respond and contribute to the resolution of the operational disaster.  • Ensure accurate and timely resolution for assigned issues Microsoft Exchange Administrator ATR - The United States Navy - Washington, DC April 2017 to September 2017 • Monitor the Exchange environment and Windows Server health.  • Serve as the primary lead on exchange.  • Solid proficiency with Exchange Toolbox and other Exchange diagnostics.  • Creates user accounts and maintains security levels on databases.  • Monitor existing messaging infrastructure.  • Solid proficiency with Microsoft Exchange Server 2010 and configuring System Administrator General Dynamics - Springfield, VA July 2016 to February 2017 • Support Thin Client using Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI) Technology.  • Interacted with network services, software systems engineering, and/or applications development to restore service and/or identify and correct core problem.  • Support Thick & Thin Client web-based applications. (Microsoft Office 365,2016, Adobe, Cisco Jabber)  • Support Microsoft Office applications.  • Active Directory account and GPO management.  • Set up equipment for employee use, performing or ensuring proper installation of cable, operating systems, and appropriate software.  • Maintain and troubleshoot network printers.  • Provide support-using Remedy ticketing system. Tier 1-3 tickets that are routed to System Administrators. Windows Administrator U.S. Department Of State - Washington, DC April 2015 to July 2016 • Monitored servers/networks for outages.  • Manage user's account, OU's and GPO's via Active Directory  • Create/manage distribution lists through Microsoft Exchange Management Console.  • Use Power Shell to run scripts for managing users email mailbox and migration.  • Transfer Classified/Unclassified data between different system networks.  • Map user's to network drives and printers.  • File recovery and back up management using Comvault. Exchange Administrator U.S. Department Of State - Washington, DC December 2012 to March 2015 • Provided Tier III support via Telephone, Email, and Remote Desktop and in person.  • Ran migration for Outlook mailboxes from 2003 Exchange to 2010 Exchange.  • Used Power Shell to run scripts for managing users email mailbox, Distribution list, and Migration  • Resolved disabled accounts, password resets and account transfers.  • Interacted with network services, software systems engineering, and/or applications development to restore service and/or identify and correct core problem.  • Fluency with Windows Active Directory User and Computer Management, GPO's /PKI/Group Policy/ Exchange email. Education Diploma Mountain View High School - Centreville, VA Skills Active directory, Cisco, Citrix, Voip, Microsoft office, System Administrator Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: E4