Customer Support Engineer Customer Support Engineer Customer Support Engineer - Technijian Torrance, CA Analytical and systematic Systems Administrator with 4+ years of experience dedicated to maximizing performance and ensuring a highly-available and secure environment. Work Experience Customer Support Engineer Technijian - Irvine, CA August 2018 to Present ·        Implementing and supporting technology solutions following industry best practices and all relevant standards.  ·        Engineer for US Office under IT Director, oversee and collaborate with offshore tech team.  ·        Act as Field Engineer to administer/deploy and troubleshoot all hardware devices for Clients in the Irvine Area, interface with clients about escalations (managed switches, AP, Firewalls, Hosts, NAS, hard-drives, Wyse, etc) B2B  ·        Remote cloud engineer administering requested servers for clients with Vmware/vsphere 5-6.7 (Exchange, Email Servers, Terminal, Storage, etc)  ·        Network monitoring and System administration using Solarwinds N-Able / PRTG / Carbon Black/ Cisco Umbrella / for issue prevention. (1500+ users Hospitals, Insurance Agencies, Manufacturers, Distributors, Hotels, Govt, etc)  ·        Resolve tickets/issues over remote, phone and on-site as a field engineer for small-mid size corporations  ·        Troubleshooting all technical aspects of a business, software/hardware and document time and work.  ·         System management configuring AD, GPO, Exchange, program permissions, Firewalls, hosted cloud services, etc.  ·        ESXi 5-6.7 based Server builds and upgrades, Storage RAID configuration and troubleshooting, Vmware/vSphere configuration and troubleshooting, ESXi/RAID install to Datastore configuration.  ·        Assist maintaining and configuration of on/off premise data centers providing hosted cloud servers. (Exchange 2010-16, Antispam, Encryption, Backups, Storage, Web, IIS, and all other requested cloud Servers built on Cisco UCS on Cisco Fabric Interconnects and Nimble Storage Array (100TB+)  ·        Maintaining standards and documentation on an ongoing basis as products and technologies evolve. Systems Administrator Artissmo Designs - El Segundo, CA September 2016 to September 2017 • Handling technical aspects of managing a production/manufacturing environment in the consumer goods industry specializing in Wall Décor hosted on Mac & Windows / Dynamics AX (4 locations)  • Assist with design, implementation and management of Multi-National hardware networks and Data Centers. Supported sites and users in El Segundo, San Diego, Tijuana, Quebec.  • Assist users with Dynamics AX Functionality and troubleshoot issues created in EDI systems/programs.  • Traveled to address offsite issues in San Diego and Mexico.  • Manage new user Onboarding, Perform user Moves, Adds and Changes as needed in all hardware/software systems.  • Assists with management for data center and computer systems including hardware, software and equipment such as Blades, Switch, UPS (uninterrupted power system), Key Card Systems, RF Guns, CCTV, Phone Systems and other data center equipment.  • Develops procedures, programs and documentation for backup and restoration of systems and applications.  • Acts as support for troubleshooting technical issues for organization. (500 Users) Analyze and Selecting technologies, implement new technologies to streamline ERP automation.  • Create JIRA workflows, assisted with upgrading business process automation with Filemaker integrations. Technical Support Engineer Sidewerks - West Hollywood, CA January 2016 to August 2016 IT administration and management MSP in the restaurant, hotel and nightlife industry. (180 Locations/networks)  ? Act as an in-house IT Administrator for all IT duties, act as an outsourced liaison/consultant for escalated IT services for corporations with internal IT Staff. Troubleshoot AD / VPN / all hardware and software systems.  -Logmein, VNC, VPN, RDP, Freshdesk ticketing, Phone, Deskside assistance.  ? Field technician/engineer: troubleshoot restaurant operation POS systems MICROS, Aloha, Heartland, Digital Dining Certified* in Digital Dining / Heartland EMV support.  ? Design build and implement PCI ISS compliant restaurant systems and office IT systems. Install physical servers and SonicWALL's and integrate/layout physical wiring for restaurant POS system. Program requested configurations into POS system and train management on daily duties. Maintenance and troubleshooting.  ? SonicWALL's / Servers / UPS / EMVinstallation or configuration as a field engineer for existing and new infrastructure.Analyze business network issues with Network Toners to troubleshoot Patch Panels and resolve.  ? Managed Programming Modification Request from clients and used DBI-SQL to program changes into POS database via for new menus items, employees, special events etc. modified database with SQL queries to address issues and run changes to MICROS SQLDB. Helpdesk Administrator Malibu Design Group - Commerce, CA February 2014 to March 2016 Handling all technical aspects of managing a production/manufacturing environment in the fashion industry.  ? Experienced in Local and Wide Area Networks and protocols firewall SSL configuration, knowledge of an enterprise VMware ESX environment.  ? Manage and configure users in Windows / OSX environment, AD, DHCP, DNS, 365, Exchange 2010-2013, Adobe CC, ERP, SQL, Polycom PBX, Gentran, Sonicwalls, Biometric Scanners, and other department permission programs/clouds/portals.  ? Manage and configure VMware ESX Environment with iSCSI storage backend to accommodateinternal data growth. Virtual Machines, vMotion, Clusters, vCenter.vFusion Nimble Stoage Certified* (NIOP)  ? Create and manage 15 virtual machine servers and 10 desktops VM for Production/testing environments.  ? Providetechnical support and assistance to IT Director (80 onsite users.)  ? Manage and configure Server Room, Routers, Cabling, Hubs, Arrays, Blades, LTO Decks, LAN/WAN, UPS, PBX, Switchs, Patch Panels, NAS/DAS, Large Format/Label/Thermal Printers and all other hardware.  ? Manage and configurex3corporatebackup systems. Symantec Backup Exec / Nimble / Geovisions. Restore all user requested data. LTO Tapes and Nimble snapshots, Surveillance.  -Daily, weekly, incremental/full backups- maintain, document and store for future use.  -Provide videos and codecs to government insurance agencies  ? Manage all corporate IT purchases, licenses, SLAs, interface with IT/IS vendors and internal accounting/upper management.  ? Assist EDI/IT director with EDI mapping and reporting -networkscripting, analyze raw EDI and tested business processes and other duties.  ? Maintain and support NY Office IT site and 20 users remotely through RDP/VNC.  ? Organize and participate in meetings with vendors, consultants and department managers.  ? Research, Present and deploy company network/hardware upgrades and changes.. EDI Associate/ System Support Nyx Make-Up - Commerce, CA February 2013 to July 2013 Answered phones through multi-line system to help users resolve EDI/IT issues.(80 onsite users)  ? Load/test custom ERP builds from SalesPad developers and documented errors created within NYX Information System for ERP quality assurance testing in a virtual/live server environment. Coordinated with SalesPad developers for fixes in SalesPad, Inventory Control and Mobile Data Scanner builds.  ? Addressed critical user issues regarding Dynamics GP and SalesPad. EDI 810, 856, 850 to meet transaction deadlines to avoid charge backs.  ? Coordinate with vendors to address documented issues within EDI system. - Resolve code, script and mapping errors from builds with 3rd party via remote/telephone.  ? Manually generate order error reports using advanced excel functions, resolve transaction errors.  ? Supported company through ServiceDesk ticketing system for system support. Education Bachelor of Science in Management Information Systems California State University Northridge December 2011 Skills VMWARE (4 years), EDI (3 years), ERP (4 years), LINUX (2 years), ESXI (3 years), System Administrator (4 years), Active Directory (4 years) Additional Information Computer Skills  ? Apps: 365 Personal - Enterprise E5 Suite, Visio, G-Suite, Active Directory, DHCP, Exchange 2013, Adobe Suites, SonicWALL, VMware vCentervSphere, vFusion, Citrix VirtualBox, VNC, RDC, VPN, RDP, VOIP, SSL, efolder, Cloud Computing, Azure AD 365, Sharepoint, Solarwinds, PRTG, Hypervisors.  ? Languages: HTML, XHTML, C#, EDI  ? OS: Windows XP- Windows 10, Windows Servers 2003-16+, Windows Embedded, OSX, Linux / Ubuntu / CentOS  ? ERP: SalesPad, SalesPad Inventory Control, Microsoft Dynamics Great Plains GP, Dynamics AX, Bluecherry 6, Bluecherry Infinity CGS, Digital Dining POS, MICROS  ? Rack Hardware: Nimble Storage Arrays CS420 & CS220 ESX iSCSI SSD, Dell PowerEdges Blades, Tower Based Servers, Tape Based Storagedecks LTO, HP/Cisco switchs, Patch Panels, Sonicwalls Small to Enterprise, UPS, PBX VoIP, Polycom, Mitel, 3CX, Geovisions Surveillance Analog/IP Cameras