Domain Administrator Domain <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Domain Administrator - SOSI International LLC -Regional Cyber Center-CONUS Fort Huachuca, AZ Work Experience Domain Administrator SOSI International LLC -Regional Cyber Center-CONUS - Fort Huachuca, AZ January 2019 to Present • Worked in conjunction with 7th Signal Command to provide technical guidance for enterprise level Group Policy objects across the CONUS footprint.  • Managed site domain controllers alongside DISA's JRSS technicians, on the operation of private Domain Main Name System (DNS) and authentication to the Continental United States (CONUS) Army users.  • Administered AD Services using enterprise tool sets such as Native Active Directory tools, Change Auditor, Advanced Group Policy Management (AGPM) and SCOM.  • Maintained over 300 Domain Controller servers, 85 Military sites and over 500,000 users on a daily basis Controllers consisting of NASE, NAE, NASW, NANW and DAHQ domains.  • Performed audits on all Privileged user permissions across platforms, developing strategies for disaster recovery, offering technical  • Provided technical support to users, adding and deleting users, creating and managing group policies, managing file share, security permissions.  • Technically administered DNS services by creating Host A-AAA records, CNAME records and created forward lookup zones, server firmware upgrades, patching and ensuring compliance with regulations.  • Policies for the entire US Army CONUS by adhering to the DISA STIG.  • Operated on Native Active Directory tools, Quest Change Auditor, Advanced Group Policy Management (AGPM), SCOM, Windows Active Directory services, Windows Server 2012 R2 administration, physical (Dell, HP, IBM).  • Operated Active Directory Sites and Services to manage site domain controllers and ensured domain replication is set appropriately.  • Familiarity with virtual (VMware/Hyper-V) servers, client/server hardware and software configuration, networking concepts, Modifying scripts batch, PowerShell, McAfee Host Based Security System (HBSS), and Group Policy.  • Administered enterprise level Group Policies across CONUS, performed item level targeting, trusted sites zones, etc.  • Managed Dell iDRAC's by performing software upgrades and system configurations in hardware/software server infrastructure.  • Knowledge in operating Microsoft System Center Operations Manager (SCOM) services.  • Operated on WSUS servers  • Installed and configured Axway Tumbleweed Validator which provides integrity verification checks against Certification Revocation Lists on each domain controller across CONUS.  • Perform Kerberos delegation requests through Active Directory for Service Principle names on servers.  • Rebuilt and upgraded Domain Controller servers according to 2nd Regional Cyber Center - Western Hemisphere (2RCC-WH) TTP. System Administrator Vectrus - Bagram Airfield - Bagram, AF May 2017 to Present • Managed the overall administration of Windows System applications.  • Performed various troubleshooting and maintenance operations in Windows Server environments  • Installed server roles and features on multiple purposes per requirements of the military base on Microsoft Server 2012 R2 Hyper V.  • Sorted complex issues pertaining to hardware and network failure -  • Monitored both Hardware and Software systems for errors and updated them regularly to maintain proper functioning and flow of information through  • Assist in facilitating Software Center updates in lieu of Microsoft Server SCCM 2012  • Performed patching for file, print, and network policy servers for multiple military bases.  • Provided Tier 2 and Tier 3 technical support for end user troubleshooting or on site troubleshooting.  • Utilized Configuration Client Manager to remotely patch servers.  • Documented the new Windows server settings that have been applied to the network.  • Created policies for 802.1X protocol on Network Policy servers across 4 bases. Ensured that all SSL certificates were up to date.  • Configured DISA Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIGs) on network printers and servers to ensure compliance.  • Remediated identified vulnerabilities on network printers, servers, and workstations, detected by Assured Compliance Assessment Solution (ACAS) scans.  • Monitored system detections in McAfee Host Intrusion Prevention application on network servers and workstations.  • Manage security and services in MS Internet Information Server (IIS)  • Create/modify AD Security Groups, user accounts, create and grant permissions to a new AD OU.  • Create/Modify .ORG mailboxes and distribution lists.  • Demonstrate Exchange database maintenance procedures.  • Monitor VM Stack Servers and Storage using vSphere 5.5 and 6.0  • Exhibit McAfee HBSS client installation and configuration Service Desk Administrator Vectrus, 25th Signal Battalion - Bagram, AF November 2015 to Present • Tasked to create and provision 5,000 plus user accounts and mailboxes for users requesting access to Nipr, Sipr, and Centrix networks on the Afghan.Swa and SWA domain in Active Directory.  • Provided technical guidance for Information Manager Owners to have sufficient knowledge in IT related request or issues under the USFOR-A governance.  • Performed Active Directory administration for end users requiring access to specific server files thereby allowing them to complete their daily work assignments.  • Regularly installed approved software on client workstations and notebooks for operational functionality  • Daily mailbox creations using Microsoft Exchange 2010.  • Given access to create DISA Enterprise Email\Organizational mailbox\Distribution Lists for any user requesting a new DEE mailbox in theater.  • Performed extensive troubleshooting for approved software, network voip phones, mailbox, network printer, and user account related issues in the RC-East area of operations.  • Held and maintained elevated privileged user accounts on Nipr, Sipr, Centrix to execute advanced functions on client computers.  • Proficient at operating BMC Remedy for trouble ticket creating, resolving, and Remedy admin password resets for Remedy holders.  • Familiar with DMDC profile modifications for end user work status and PIV activations.  • Knowledgeable on CAC Card password resets through a specific DMDC application.  • Extremely familiar with the USFOR-A Cyber Directives for regulated procedures and IT compliance. Vectrus - Bagram Airfield - Bagram, AF November 2015 to 2017 Desktop Support Specialist Capgemini - Austin, TX July 2015 to October 2015 • Managed day to day service desk support for State of Georgia government offices providing quality end user support for over 4000 end users  • Responsible for ensuring password resets antivirus scans and hardware/software issues were resolved in a timely manner  • Performed active dire rectory maintenance for end users requiring access to specific server files thereby allowing them to complete their daily work assignments.  • Specialized in Active Directory Users and Computer for managing multi-user account objects, security groups, and domain devices.  • Apart of the Knowledge Management team for Remedy ITSM 8.1 technical templates for ensuring customer service and problem resolution.  • A member of a 5 man team for testing of Avaya phone systems to prepare for go live environments.  • Operated on OWA 365 for ensuring full availability for customer email solutions across the State of Georgia state office departments. Advanced NOC Specialist Megapath Networks Network Hardware - Austin, TX December 2014 to January 2015 Network Support)  • Configured over 500 Fortinet Firewall devices as an Advanced NOC Specialist  • Expedited the replacement of 300 + 80CM devices with 60D devices for all Papa Johns locations in the United States  • Utilized the Clarity ticketing system for network troubleshooting visibility purposes for high level  • Configured network failover strategies for Papa Johns locations across the United States to ensure redundancy. Information Technology Systems Analyst United States Army 2010 to 2013 • Responded to network and enterprise email outages across the Continental United States (CONUS).  • Responsible for maintaining visibility and situational awareness for classified/unclassified networks  • Compiled updates on the status for every Army/Joint Forces installation in CONUS on Classified (NIPR) and Unclassified (SIPR) network connectivity  • Developed Commanders Critical Information Requirements and troubleshooting procedures  • Provided first level support to a user population of more than 20,000 Users accounts on three different networks.  • Created Unclassified/Classified/Coalition accounts for the Army  • Completed configuration baselines, created and updated various Organizational Units, and assigned System Rights using Active Directory.  • Conducted / Instructed IMO classes for Information Manager Officer Applicants for Bagram Airfield.  • Managed a low volume of technical and service issues simultaneously by ensuring rapid resolution and maximum user productivity.  • Efficiently operated BMC REMEDY 7.5 and 8.1 for various tracking purposes in the Continental United States (CONUS) and outside the Continental United States (OCONUS).  • Installed and updated necessary network drives for organizations on various domains by utilizing Active Directory  • Installed software such as Microsoft Office, Symantec Ghost, WhatsUp Gold Pro, Adobe Professional, Nero, and AVG  • Applied over 200+ images on machines for local network via RIS server, DVD/CD, and ghosting. Created images for computers and network using Symantec Ghost Server  • Managed high-volume of mission critical technical and service issues simultaneously at NETCOM.  • Front door customer service for users with connectivity, internet, and software problems. Set up data base for trouble tickets/ issues/ problems Education Technology Cybertex Institute of Technology February 2014 to November 2014 University Maryland University College 2011 United States Army Information Technology Specialist School - Fort Sill, OK February 2005 to June 2005 Bay City High School - Bay City, TX 2004 Technical Trade School Skills System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory, Linux, Vmware Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: SGT