Field Service Engineer Field Service Engineer Field Service Engineer - Cintel, Inc Huntsville, AL Over 6 years military trained in the Advance Electronics and Computer Field, carries an unparalleled depth of knowledge for electronics, combat systems and strike operations. Maintains and operate an abundance of DOD, Military, and Government systems for rudimentary and high value assets.    Owner and Found of CYP Foods, all natural foods and products. This venture stemmed from a proclivity for entrepreneurial pursuits and and is just one facet that creates a drive for excellence.     As a philanthropist and humanist works with many charities as both a representative and worker to benefit any group or person. Maintains a fervent belief that compassion is our last bastion of humanity and thus, self starting to rectify this personally is the least we can all do as individuals. An eating disorder and mental health advocate, Ex-Ambassador for Feeding San Diego. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Field Service Engineer Cintel, Inc July 2019 to Present Support field operations for real world and test invents for DOD, Government and military assets.  • Perform periodic maintenance on networks and data systems involving rudimentary and high value assets.  • Perform basic to advanced command line scripting dealing with process execution and networking.  • Maintain and operate software in support of tactical and simulated entities.  • Draft and write daily, quarterly and situation reports dealing with complex concepts systems and operations.  • Report any feedback and deadlines as well as drafting new processes in which old systems can be  refurbished and streamlined. Combat Systems System's Engineer SOLUTE November 2018 to June 2019 • Creates, manages, and maintains servers and client network in both physical and virtual environments  • Consultant to development and implementation of new technologies  • Drafting of intersystem design documentation  • Provided in depth operator, system administrator, and technical training to ship's force of varying rank as well as provides training, and technical insight in aid of other system engineers.  • Provides distance supports to Naval Commands aiding in response to system trouble tickets, casualties, and anomalies.  • Aids in troubleshooting and implementation of network and security on ship wide Local Area Networks Senior Systems Administrator Alion Science and Technology July 2018 to November 2018 • Maintains 10 plus Linux based GCCS-J Servers  • Maintains operation and administration of over 50 GCCS-J assets (Clients and Servers) provided service  for tactical operation across multiple fleets as well as direct support for PAC and PACNW.  • Tactical System Administrator responsible for integration between GCCS-J systems and various warfare  areas (Air, Land, Strike, etc )  • Provides local and distance support related to client and server maintenance to include:  o IAVA updates  o Implementation of security patches  • Maintains coherence across multitude of C4I systems ensuring the proper administration and functionality  in all areas allowing for successful maintenance and operations of all assets utilized by joint operations.  • Builds and manages machines in virtual environment  • Maintenance of physical hardware and connection for C4I equipment Systems Engineer/Senior Systems Administrator SOLUTE July 2017 to July 2018 As Global Command and Control Systems Maritime (GCCS-M) Systems Engineer, performed complete  and successful installation of GCCS-M Software on multitude of platforms to include: DDG, CG, LPD, MCM, LSD.  • Has maintained a 100% success rate on all assigned installs with no outstanding work items on any  platform.  • Aside from the technician side of installs has successfully completed all systems operability tests ensuring  complete warfare readiness for all attempted commands.  • Provided in depth operator, system administrator, and technical training to ship's force of varying rank as well as provides training, and technical insight in aid of other system engineers.  • Provides distance supports to Naval Commands aiding in response to system trouble tickets, casualties, and anomalies.  • Aids in troubleshooting and implementation of network and security on ship wide Local Area Networks.  • Manages ship's active directory and exchange servers.  • Builds and manages machines in a virtual environment Fire Control Technician/Safety Officer/Division Supervisor 8027 Caminito de Pizza Unit F - San Diego, CA February 2012 to March 2017 San Diego, CA, 92108 (860)-933-1003 stanfordjt@gmail.com  UNITED STATES NAVY  Fire Control Technician/Safety Officer/Division Supervisor, February 2012 - March 2017  • Over four years of experience as Tactical Tomahawk Weapons Control System: Operator and maintenance  man; Two years as supervisor  • Supervised and managed over 15 sailors directly in day to day responsibilities including maintenance, qualifications, and provided counseling in personal and professional growth  • As training officer directly managed the qualification and certification process of over 15 sailors personally  as well as supervising the qualifications and training of the entire weapons department which included three  separate divisions and over 50 sailors  • Directly managed the department's safety program ensuring zero mishaps as well as providing consistent  and extensive training on personal and work place safety  • Over a four-year period as Tomahawk Missile Manager and two years as supervisor has received multiple  commendations and recommendations for promotion. Education East Lyme High School - East Lyme, CT 2017 Skills GCCS, GCCS-M, COOLING, SCHEMATICS, AC/DC, CIRCUITS, LINUX, RADAR SYSTEMS, ROUTER, WEAPONS, MATERIAL HANDLING, HAZMAT, ELECTROMECHANICAL SYSTEMS, TRAINING, MAINTENANCE, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, COMPUTER OPERATIONS, NETWORKING, SYSTEM ADMINISTRATION, SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT, Microsoft Word, Word, Management Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/jacobstanford Military Service Branch: Navy Service Country: United States Rank: E-5 February 2012 to March 2017 Commendations: Navy-Marine Corps Achievement Medal  Fleet Letter of Commendation Certifications/Licenses Security+ August 2018 to August 2021 Linux+ October 2018 to Present