IT Specialist IT Specialist Information Technology Specialist and Navy Veteran San Diego, CA IT profesional with comprehensive background in information security, network and computer systems infrastructure. Led, trained, and mentored fellow IT employees while exceeding expectations of executive staff. Performed exemplary service in both a domestic and international environment as reflected through an outstanding review given by senior leadership. Highly specialized in the following areas:  • Server Management • Training and Application Development • Active Directory  • IT Policy Compliance • Systems Administration • Computer Troubleshooting   • Technical Consulting • Network Infrastructure • Project Development • Information Assurance Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Specialist Naval Medical Center Balboa - San Diego, CA November 2015 to Present • Provide remote and on-site IT customer support to professional hospital staff and personnel at designated clinical sites to prevent technical interruptions. Operating systems include Windows 10 and Windows Server 2012. Software includes MS Office 2013 and Office 365.  • Implemented, troubleshot and supported Active Directory processes such as account provisioning, lockouts, password resets / password changes as well as account set up / deleting accounts, and group permission, user IDs creations.  • Create computer and user accounts using Active Directory. Reset CACID cards when users accounts lockout.  • Proactively monitor command network which enables to quickly detect, diagnose, and resolve network performance problems and outages. The network infrastructure consists of both Brocade and Cisco routers and switches.  • Accountable for updating new operating system, installing new patches and conducts system re-imaging when necessary using enterprise imaging services.  • Vulnerability management scheduling and running vulnerability scans using ACAS  • Performed installations of all printer drivers in network and configuring TCP/IP network printers by assigning a static IP address using DHCP Systems Administrator Teksystems - San Diego, CA March 2015 to November 2015 • Work as part of project team with technical issues in the initiation and planning phases of standard Project Management Methodology including technical strategy, research & development within the project life-cycle, technical analysis and design while supporting operations staff in executing, testing and rolling-out IT solutions.  • Strategic consulting on enterprise IT hardware and equipment, and develop business plans on IT projects.  • Develop agreed solutions on implementing new systems, and presenting solutions in written or oral reports.  • Upgraded over 100 computers to take advantage of new operating system features and new versions of application software.  • Provide and implement new system features to users and clientele for new installations and upgrades while training new internal personnel on necessary user information.  • Diagnose and resolve any problems caused by computer viruses or malware. I ensured that users are aware of company’s IT security policy. IT Specialist DEPARTMENT OF VETERAN AFFAIRS - San Diego, CA January 2013 to March 2015 • Responsible for managing all of companies IT help desk services through utilization of imaging 300+ laptops and administration software.  • Support company operations through the implementation of work tickets and telecommunication.  • Assist in system function, troubleshooting and repair of 200+ personal computers to ensure network viability.   • Resolved, identified, and resolved over 300+ remedy customer inquiries user questions as part of an IT help desk serving 4,000+ medical students and staff.  • Assisted with the deployment of computer on wheels technology used for patient barcode medication administration (BCMA).  • Performed daily system monitoring, verifying integrity and availability of all hardware, server resources, systems and key processes, reviewing system and application logs, and verifying completion of scheduled backup jobs.  • Create and computer and user accounts using Active Directory. Reset CACID cards when users accounts lockout. Education Bachelors of Business Administration in Management Information Systems San Diego State University 2015 Associate of Arts in Arts and Sciences Vincennes University - San Diego, CA 2013 Skills Active Directory, Networking, PowerShell, Windows Troubleshooting, Network Problem Solving, Windows Server 2012, Network Security, DOD Information Assurance Policy, Print Management (10+ years), Information Assurance, System Admin, System Administrator, Active Directory, Linux, SCCM Links http://linkedin.com/pub/victor-pagan/57/b61/8b6 Certifications/Licenses Security+ October 2015 to Present Global certification that validates the baseline skills needed to perform core security functions and pursue an IT security career. Certificate in Computer Information Systems – Networking Concentration May 2017 to Present Foundational skills required to install, configure, troubleshoot, and maintain network systems in business environments. Major topics covered include hardware technologies, operating systems, networking, routing, security, and database management. This program prepares students for careers in a variety of positions including Information Security Technician, LAN Administrator, Junior Network Administrator, Technical Support Specialist, and PC Technician. Secret Security Clearance November 2015 to November 2025 This level of clearance will grant the right to access designated and classified information up to Secret level on a need-to-know basis. Department Heads have the discretion to allow for an individual to access Top Secret-level information without higher-level clearance on a case-to-case basis.  Only those with a Secret clearance, with enhanced screening have access to Protected C information.