Sr Linux Unix Systems Administrator - AT&T Contractor Sr Linux Unix <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> - AT&amp;T Contractor Contractor - AT&T Bothell, WA Work Experience Sr Linux Unix Systems Administrator - AT&T Contractor IT America Inc - Bothell, WA November 2015 to Present Sr Linux/Unix Administrator  Supporting Digital experience, Commerce Analytics platforms to provide business intelligence solutions to the Digital Experience (DE) management team that manages att.com and associated web properties. Supported platform that develops a set of reporting & analysis tools that support the business teams with leading edge business intelligence capabilities. The primary responsibility is to develop & sustain EDM Datamart that is heavily used to track various data including clickstream, order, and fulfillment and subscriber metrics for att.com. Played key role by providing services in infrastructure planning, growth, and support. Worked closely with other SAS, DBA's and Sr. technical team leads in the group to identify, recommend, develop, implement, and support systems with a focus on high availability and scalability.  Responsibilities:  • Build, configure and maintain infrastructure for Ecommerce Analytics Platform with over 400 servers running RHEL 5.x, 6.x, 7.x, Sun Solaris 8,9,10, CentOS, Ubuntu.  • Responsible for Server builds, OS installation, and patch management. Administrating and managing HP Proliant (DL 580 & DL 380) G8, G9, G10 servers. VMWARE ESXi installation, vCenter installation, configuration and management for Linux and Windows VMs.  • Automated OS deployment using Kickstart on over 200 servers.  • Built, configured and maintained Red Hat Cluster with High Availability and Resilient Storage. Includes Active - Active Clusters and Active - Passive Failover / failback clusters. Configured fencing devices, failover domains, resources and service groups to be managed by cluster. Includes networking and shared storage file systems (GFS2 & EXT4), Oracle DB services, Application services managed by cluster itself.  • Configure & Support Veritas Volume manager, Veritas Cluster services VCS, Sun Solaris cluster. Managed clustered file systems Informatics.  • Architect new system when required, continue to evolve current E-Commerce Analytics infrastructure. Making system hardware and software recommendations. Work with Vendors to procure and install, upgrade hardware.  • Automate repetitive tasks through shell, bash, Perl scripting. OS automated deployments with KickStart and Puppet.  • Expertise in writing Ansible Playbooks, modules and roles. Utilized Ansible for configuration management of Hosts.  • Involved in writing custom Ansible playbooks for deployment orchestration and developed Ansible Playbooks to simplify and automate day-to-day server administration tasks.  • Assists Developers with high-level application performance optimization, environment configuration and troubleshooting.  • Monitoring:  Managed and maintained monitoring and alerting services through Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).  • Security:  Managing Security, Server Vulnerability Remediation and handling annual server audits on over 400+ servers.  • Installing and maintaining AT&T mandatory ITO security tools to meet compliance requirements. Installed and managed McAfee and McAfee - On Access Scanning OAS.  • Dedicatedly configured operating systems to meet audits like CSO Unix Security Checklist, PCI, SoX, Security Tools Verification, Trust level 1.  • Configured and managed Data Router and IBM Connect Direct file publishing and subscription services.  • Created and managed User access roles in central tool. Managed automated access request and deployments.  • Experience configuring and troubleshooting Shared Storage (Fiber Channel and iSCSI).  • Storage Administration:  Managing Hitachi HUSVM & AMS2300 storage arrays with over 100TB of data. Migrated from IBM terraform appliance with over 70TB of data.  • Configured & managed critical backups. Understanding of hardware and software RAID configurations and building is desirable.  • Worked with NAS Storage, HBA card configuration, iSCSI setups.  • Experience in Configuring and Managing Virtual Disks, Disk Mirrors & RAID Levels.  • Maintaining UNIX / Linux Disaster Recovery Plan and actively participate in Technology and Business Recovery activities.  • Experience managing and handling: Change request, Trouble request, Access request & Support request in JIRA project management tool.  • Staying updated with technical and operational tools and knowledge required to perform assigned duties.  • Support:  Document and maintain the inventory using asset management techniques.  • Coordinating with Vendors to provide hardware support. Managed and supported 200+ servers in data center.  • Provide 24 x 7 on-call application support on the UNIX/Linux systems in rotation with other team members. UNIX Administrator - AT&T Contractor AT&T - St. Louis, MO January 2014 to November 2015 UNIX ADMINISTRATOR  Responsibilities:  • Installation, Configuration and upgrade of Red Hat Linux (4, 5), and HP-UX, Windows Server Operating Systems. User Administration, management and archiving.  • Majorly lead in Unix-to-Linux Migration of BMC Remedy Applications and upgrading AR System 7.1 to 8.1.01. Personally, installed and configured Apache, Java, Oracle 11g, AR System, and Mid-Tier. Migrated objects & data to AR System 8.1.01, configured LDAP, AR Email Service, on cluster environment. Provided Post-Migration support for multiple Remedy Applications which involved deploying Emergency & Production Releases, monitoring services, fixing performance issues, installing security patches.  • Responsible for Monthly & Emergency Release activities such as moving the packages/code from Test, Staging to Production using CVS, SVN. Professionally handled various issues in Release Processes.  • Raised, handled and closed multiple Change Management and Trouble Management tickets accordingly with Standards.  • Configuring NFS, NIS, NIS+, DNS, Auto Mount & Disk Space Management. Created File Systems and maintained its data consistency. Installed and Configured LAMP Server.  • Monthly security patches deployment on Linux dev, test, stage and production servers.  • Installation, Configuration, and Maintenance of Apache Tomcat, Web Sphere, and Red Hat Linux environment.  • Automated daily health checks, resource monitoring and alerting for multiple application servers.  • Conducted Annual Disaster Recovery exercises for applications on different platforms.  • Regular disk management, partitioning according to the requirements, creating new file systems or increasing existing ones, managing file systems and adding virtual swap space.  • Scripting and task automation using Shell and Bash scripting.  • Experience with configuring firewalls using Linux. Familiar with configuring advanced features such as NAT, Port Redirection, and Logging.  • Providing Knowledge Transfer to new recruited Team Member.  • Providing production support for multiples applications residing on Linux and Windows environments. Making sure Zero-Down time for enterprise critical applications by raising outages, escalations whenever necessary.  • Supporting servers on a 24x7 basis on different platforms. Education Master's in Software Engineering International Technological University - San Jose, CA 2016 to 2017 Master's in Computer Science University of Southern Mississippi - Long Beach, MS 2013 to 2014 Bachelor's in Information Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana 2008 to 2012 Skills HP-UX, UX, NFS, RED HAT, SOLARIS, UNIX, VERITAS CLUSTER SERVER, CLUSTER SERVER, APACHE, LINUX (5 years), RS/6000, SPARC, SUN, DNS, PCI, TCP/IP, DISASTER RECOVERY, SOX, SSL, Ansible, High Availability, Release Management, Outage Management, Data Center, Automation, Shell, Python, Bash, Redhat, Linux Administrator, System Administrator, System Admin, Vmware Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/ssbudamagunta