Commercial NOC Metro-Ethernet Technician Commercial NOC Metro-Ethernet Technician Commercial NOC Metro-Ethernet Technician - Frontier Communications Rochester, NY Work Experience Commercial NOC Metro-Ethernet Technician Frontier Communications 2015 to Present -Provided remote repair support for commercial customers of Frontier's Metro-Ethernet fiber network.  Primarily working with layer 2 NID's & CO switches to support DIA (Dedicated Internet Access),  Point-to-Point, and Point-to-Multipoint connections for Enterprise level customers. See 'Technology  Experience' section below for specific hardware & software knowledge.  -Intensively troubleshot layer 2 connectivity issues with customers on a regular basis. Cooperated with various carriers to achieve ticket resolution, with a focus on customer experience & low MTTR.    -Assisted in the acquisition of new Verizon assets & was selected to train new employees in Tampa, FL on the Frontier Metro-E network & layer 2 concepts.    -Selected for MEF Certification training & acquired MEF Certification 2015. Trouble Resolution Specialist Earthlink - Advanced Services 2014 to 2015 -Provided support & repairs for circuits including MPLS networks, Hosted Voice (VoIP solutions), T1, DSL  & GiGE circuits, and managed Wireless AP's (see Hardware & Software sections below for specific  platform knowledge) -Acquired specific knowledge of Hosted Voice (VoIP) products, implementing  Aastra & Polycom phones in conjunction with Adtran 6355 & VLAN configurations. Worked with field technicians & customers directly to resolve issues.  -Managed ticket queue using Remedy ticketing platform & part of inbound customer call queue using Aspect. Junior Systems Administrator Ward Greenberg Heller & Reidy. LLP 2013 to 2014 -Oversaw production-level front-end IT operations of the ~50 employee firm, including ticket gathering & resolution from 3 regional offices. -Corresponded with third-party IT Services vendor to resolve server-side  IT problems.  -Established new documentation and procedures which were previously non-existent. Resulted in skyrocketing solution efficiency. Education B.S in Applied Networking & Systems Administration Rochester Institute of Technology 2013