DevOps Engineer DevOps Engineer DevOps Engineer - Cricket Wireless Atlanta, GA • 9+ years of IT experience as DevOps Engineer and Systems Administrator.  • Experience with principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) in Agile, scrum and Waterfall methodologies.  • Worked on the deployment procedure using Apache, Tomcat and Jboss by creating the deploy scripts and setting up for the production release.  • Experience with deploying .Net / Java based applications using Jenkins and Bamboo.  • Implemented Jenkins Workflow and Plugins for repeatable deployments of multi-tier applications, artifacts and services to Docker and RHEL.  • Experience in deploying application using Container Management platforms like Kubernetes, OenShift and Docker Swarm.  • Expert in using different source code version control tools like GIT, Subversion.  • Expertise in using build tools like MAVEN and ANT for the building of deployable Artifacts such as War & Jar from source code.  • Knowledge on Configuration Management tools like Maven, Puppet, Chef, Saltstack.  • Created Chef Cookbooks and Recipes to maintain and automate various parts of infrastructure.  • Proficient with in depth knowledge of using various AWS services which include IAM, VPC, EC2, ELB, Auto Scaling, S3, Glacier, Athena, glue, ECS, EKS, RDS, Lambda, API Gateway, SQL, PostgreSQL, Redis, DynamoDB, CloudFront, CloudWatch, Route53, SNS, SQS.  • Experience in migrating On-Premise Applications to AWS Cloud.  • Experience in working with Azure.  • Experienced with event-driven tasks and scheduled AWS Lambda functions to trigger various AWS resources and Migration.  • Hands on experience with AWS solutions using CloudFormation Templates and launch configurations to automate repeatable provisioning of AWS resources for applications.  • Installation and configuration ESX hosts. Making new virtual machines, with Linux Redhat server, making templates, cloning VMs using VMware Virtual Client.  • Good experience in Python, Ruby, Shell, JavaScript and Groovy Scripting, SQL Server. Work Experience DevOps Engineer Cricket Wireless - Atlanta, GA January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designing and deploying multiple environments using AWS stack (EC2, Route53, ECS, EKS, EMR, Glue, Lambda, API Gateway, S3, RDS, RedShift, Athena, SQL, PostgreSQL, Redis, Aurora, CodeCommit, CodeDeploy, CodePipeline, SNS, SQS, IAM) focusing on high availability, fault tolerance, auto scaling in AWS cloud formation  • Provided solutions for migrating existing infrastructure to cost effective and highly scalable AWS cloud infrastructure.  • Exposed to all aspects of software development lifecycle (SDLC) such as Analysis, Planning, and Developing, Testing, and Implementing Post-production analysis of the projects.  • Experience in working on several Docker components like Docker Engine, Hub, Machine, creating Docker images, Compose, Docker Registry and handling multiple images primarily for middleware installations and domain configurations.  • Experience in Implementing Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Maven, Ant, Jenkins and AWS.  • Proficient with cloud services like Amazon Web Services.  • Experience in using AWS including EC2, Auto-Scaling in launching EC2 instances, Elastic Load Balancer.  • Ability in development and execution of Shell Scripting.  • Efficient in working closely with teams to ensure high quality and timely delivery of builds and releases.  • Having good Experience in Chef for Deployment on Multiple platforms.  • Deploying the applications in Apache Tomcat.  • Good exposure to multiple roles as a Developer, Build and Release engineer.  • Proficiency with build and release engineering tools including Jenkins configuration, Subversion, Git, Maven and Jenkins Plugins, SonarQube, UDeploy.  • • Extensive working experience on Jenkins Jobs configuration and CI/CD pipeline creation.  • Developed a fully automated Continuous Integration Pipeline using Jenkins and custom tools developed in Python and deploying them onto Jboss.  • Hands on experience on Terraform a tool for building, changing, and versioning infrastructure safely and efficiently.  • Automated MySQL container Deployment in Docker using Python and monitoring of these containers using Nagios monitoring tool.  • Proficient in Splunk administration tasks such as installing, configuring, monitoring and tuning.  • Developing scripts for build, deployment, maintenance and related tasks using Jenkins, Docker, Maven, Python and bash.  • Creating Project XML, Project URI using different Endpoints, Resources/Methods and Groovy Scripting for Rest services.  • Worked on Ansible core concepts like Inventory, Playbooks, Roles, Tasks and Modules.  • Worked on Kubernetes to manage containerized applications using its nodes, ConfigMaps, selectors, services and deployed application containers as Pods.  • Used & Implemented Kubernetes to deploy scale, load balance, scale and manage docker containers with multiple name spaced versions.  • Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Groovy scripting to build a pipeline for continuous deployment.  • Experience on perl, bash, Shell, JavaScript and python scripting.  • Experience on automating the code using chef and Shell Scripting to build AWS environments autonomously.  • Used Application Performance Management (APM) Tools such as Dynatrace and Kibana.  Environment: LINUX (RHEL), Jenkins, Git, JAVA, JavaScript, .Net, Nagios, Kafka, AWS, Azure, Tomcat, Jboss, Bamboo, Selenium, JIRA, Bitbucket, Powershell, Docker, Kubernetes, OpenShift, Chef, Terraform, Sonarqube, Splunk, EC2, Kinesis, S3, Lambda, DynamoDB, SQL, PostgreSQL, Redis, VPC, ECS, EKS, IAM, CloudFront, CloudWatch, RDS, RedShift, Route 53, CodeDeploy, CodePipeline. DevOps Engineer TXU Energy - Irving, TX November 2015 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Amazon Web Services (AWS) Certified DevOps Engineer having 3+ years of experience in Configuration Management, Build and Release Management, DevOps Engineering, System Administration.  • Strong working knowledge on the principles of Software Configuration Management (SCM) for tracking, controlling changes in Software in the SDLC methodologies like Agile, scrum, and Waterfall methodologies.  • Responsible for build and deployment automation using AWS, Docker, Tomcat and Chef  • Focused on containerization and immutable infrastructure. Docker has been core to this experience.  • Developed container support for cloud environments and Docker. Deployed the applications in Docker containers and managed the containers in enterprise level.  • Created Docker images using a Docker file, worked on Docker container snapshots, removing images and managing Docker volumes.  • Configured Docker container for branching purposes and Implemented Docker automation solution for Continuous Integration / Continuous Delivery model.  • Created and implemented chef cookbooks for deployment and used Chef Recipes to create a Deployment directly into Amazon EC2 instances  • Developed Chef Cookbooks to manage system configuration and for Tomcat, MySQL, Windows applications and versioned them on GIT repositories and Chef Server  • Installed RedHat Linux using kick start and applying security polices for hardening the server based on company's policies.  • Created users, roles and groups using Identity Access Management (IAM) and attached the required policies.  • Performed Branching, Tagging, Release Activities on Version Control Tool GIT (GitHub)  • Experience in Software Integration, Configuration, building, automating, managing and releasing code from one environment to another environment and deploying to servers.  • Strong experience in setting up the enterprise infrastructure on Amazon Web Services (AWS) like Auto Scaling, CloudFormation, CloudTrail, CloudWatch, DynamoDB, EBS, EC2, ELB, ECS, IAM, EMR, Glue, Redshift, RDS, SQL, Aurora, Redis, S3, CodeCommit, CodeDeploy, CodePipeline, VPC, Route 53, CloudFront, security group, API Gateway, and AWS lambda.  • Proficient in DevOps culture through CI/CD tools like Jenkins, GitLab, Maven and configuration management tools like Chef, Puppet, Ansible.  • Enhancing existing framework by fixing open issues using ReadyAPI with Groovy scripting tool.  • Used Terraform for server provisioning.  • Installed and configured MySQL and MariaDB on Linux and Windows environments.  • Experience in Virtualization technologies like VMWare, OpenShift, OpenStack, Vagrant and worked with containerizing applications like Docker, Kubernetes.  • Configure Jenkins build jobs for Continuous Integration and for regression testing.  • Hands on experience with created several Manifests, Playbooks, and Cookbooks to automate infrastructure maintenance & configuration.  • Used Groovy scripting to automate Jenkins jobs. Configured Jenkins jobs as a code with Groovy DSL.  • Used Jenkins file to automate the build trigger process whenever a branch is merged with master.  • Worked on DynamoDB NoSQL database using boto3, which included creation of tables, items and automating the tasks.  • Worked on creating the Docker Files to build the customized Images.  • Designing and maintaining production-quality Splunk dashboards.  • Proficient in setting up and configuring Baselines, Branching, Merging, and Backup through GIT.  • Experience writing shell scripts, Python, Chef, Puppet to automate the deployments.  • Dockized applications by creating Docker images from Docker file, collaborated with development support team to setup a continuous deployment environment using Docker  • Extensive experience ticketing and tracking tools like JIRA, Bugzilla for Production hot fixes and bug fixes.  Environment: RHEL, AWS, EC2, EMR, Glue, Lambda, API Gateway, S3, ECS, RDS, RedShift, CodeCommit, CodeDeploy, CodePipeline, VPC, Docker, Kubernetes, Jenkins, Sonarqube, Azure, Bamboo, OpenShift, Ansible, Terraform, Nagios, Tomcat, Jboss, Splunk, Python, .Net, JavaScript, Groovy, Linux, Shell, Team city, Salt, CloudFormation, Jira, Selenium, TFS, Git, ANT, Maven. Build and Release Engineer Aspire Systems - Chennai, Tamil Nadu January 2013 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Used Team Foundation Server TFS, VSTS and GIT as Version Control.  • Maintained servers used to build product releases. Installed daily builds on QA machines and ran preliminary performance Smoke Tests  • Developed Perl and shell scripts for automation of the build and release process.  • Extensively used ANT tool to do the builds, integrated ANT to Eclipse and did local builds.  • Integrated Apache Maven with Jenkins for the builds as the Continuous Integration process.  • Build Java code and .NET code on to different Jenkins servers as per the schedule.  • Built and Deployed Java/J2EE to a web application server in an Agile continuous integration environment and automated the whole process.  • Created and maintained the Shell/Perl deployment scripts for TC Server/Tomcat web application servers.  • Constructed Netapp Efficiency and Operations Service Reports (NEOS) and presented to end clients of all levels.  • Participated in weekly release meetings with Technology stakeholders to identify and mitigate potential risks associated with the releases.  • Responsible for designing and deploying best SCM processes and procedures.  • Developed and maintained integration and release processes.  • Tracked all the changes in Jira tracking tool and provided metrics reporting for the project release activities.  • Maintained and coordinated environment configuration, controls, code integrity, and code conflict resolution.  • Involved in Research of the project application architecture to support/resolve build, compile, and test issues/problems.  Environment: Subversion (SVN), Git, TFS, MS Build, XML, Jenkins, Splunk, Anthill pro, JIRA, Visual studio, PowerShell, Shell Scripts, Java, .Net, Windows, Web Sphere Application Server. Systems Administrator Value Labs - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2010 to November 2012 Responsibilities:  • Experience with different flavors of Linux (RHEL, CentOS, Oracle Linux, Debian, and Ubuntu)  • Installed and configured Red Hat Linux Kickstart and Solaris jumpstart Servers.  • Setup a couple of hundred VM's running CentOS to be used for web, database, application, mail, rftp, monitoring and Git repositories.  • Designs, configures, implements, and maintains UNIX hardware and operating system environments including; AIX, HP-UX, and Solaris.  • Worked on redhat 5.x, performed daily tasks using CRON scheduler, and automated it.  • Discussed and planned the development issues with the team members and the lead.  • Daily tasks such as taking data backups, cleaning junk content and updating software.  • Configuration of Hardware and Software RAID on Digital & Sun Servers.  • Installation of Oracle Patches and Troubleshooting, Creating and modifying application related objects, Creating Profiles, Users, Roles and maintaining system security.  • Configuration and maintenance of NaIS, NFS, DHCP and DNS Servers on Solaris.  • Administrative tasks such as System Startup/shutdown, Backup strategy, Printing, Documentation, User Management, Security, Network management, dumb terminals and devices carried out.    Environment: RHEL, CentOS, Oracle Linux, Debian and Ubuntu, VMWare, Veritas, LVM, PostgreSQL, MySQL Python. Education Bachelor's