Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Application & IT Infrastructure administration - Alert Enterprise Fremont, CA • Over 14 years of Network Solutions and Data communications Industry experience with expertise in Application Support & Infrastructure management including planning, setup, design, implementation and support of LAN and WAN.  • Experience in Site reliability operations in multi-tier production environment.  • Experience in handling change management process in a production site of 1200 Server's; and working under to keep the SLA at bar.  • I have in-depth knowledge in setting up alerts and monitor application flow & Server and Application health in a multi-tier environment.  • Thorough understanding and hands on expertise in Windows Serve environment ; DNS; DHCP; Exchange ; PKI Infrastructure; MS Lync ; Group Policies; WSUS; Bit locker Security; User data work folders; Windows deployment services; PXE network boot.  • Hands on experience in installation & maintenance of VMware ESX 5/5i with HA and DR.  • Hands on expertise in Installation and maintenance of RedHat Linux, Nagios and addons, OCS inventory, SQUID;APACHE; SAMBA; CVS  • Thorough understanding of monitoring tools and hands on expertise on Nagios, SCOM.  • Hands on expertise on Powershell, VBS, and a passion of trying to automate and customize applications and linking multiple applications to single dashboard.  • Maintaining Technical and User Documentation and follow ITIL life cycle for user requests.  • IT Vendor/Helpdesk Management  • Highly motivated active team player and always willing to work in challenging and cross-platform environment. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Systems Administrator Alert Enterprise January 2011 to Present Team: IT Team    Project Description:  Job Responsibilities:  Manage the Engineering, Administrative, Sales, Support teams for data and voice networks, including, but not limited to the data network components, data security, management systems, TDM and VOIP Systems, and other network resources for SUFI and their portfolio companies.  Assist with daily operations of data center, LAN/WAN/VPN Communication, patch remediation, server monitoring; support the technical teams and provide IT compliance activities. Responsible for security measures.  Build, maintain, troubleshoot Server OS [ Windows, Linux, VMWare ESX 5/5i, Citrix].  Follow and improve standard operating procedure documentation.  Maintain software and hardware inventory, and ensure compliance and asset management.  Maintain routing equipment, firewall equipment, server systems.  Work closely with Engineering team, do research and provide expertise on integration on third party software and tools for engineering teams.    Projects implemented:  • Actively planned and executed Active Directory upgrade from Windows 2003 to Windows 2008.  • Actively planned and executed migrating mailing environment from Exchange 2007 sp2 to Exchange 2010, having ~300 mailboxes.  • Implemented Microsoft Bit locker disk encryption system across the enterprise did extensive testing on recovery thru key based and cert based.  • Configured an Enterprise Nagios Network and system monitoring application to monitor the Servers, devices, services connected to network; had configured Nagiosgraph and Nagvis for a complete system.  • Configured and maintained SAP HANA & HADOOP instances for engineering product integration and to replicate customer scenarios.  • Implemented Windows Update Services with process document for a smooth work flow.  • Implemented OCS Inventory/Kwoksys to handle enterprise asset allocation and tracking system.  • Implemented Trendmicro enterprise security & antivirus across the office.  • Implemented OpenVas network security tool and scanner for internal server landscape.  • Actively involved in upgrading datacenter rack space and switches.  • Maintain Oracle/SQL Server / Mysql / Postgresql installation, backup & restore activities. Implemented a bi-weekly backup scheduled calendar with clear instructions for restore.  • Handled an environment of 300 physical hosts and ~480 vm guests.  • Defined processes to streamline Dev/QA request queue and make it a smooth run. Skills Site Reliability Engineer, Application Support, Production Support, System Engineer, Windows Network Infrastructure , VMware ESX 5, Redhat Linux, Nagios, OpenVas,