Senior Corporate Systems Administrator/Cloud Architect Senior Corporate <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Cloud Architect Senior Corporate Systems Administrator/Cloud Architect - PGI Kansas City, MO • Over twenty+ years of experience in installation, configuration and administration on Windows server NT-2016 and Exchange 5.5 - 2016 and Office 365 and Azure.  • Experienced in Active Directory, Azure AD, ADFS, Office 365 stack, SCCM, VMware ESXi, Hyper-V, OCS/Lync Server/Skype for Business, PowerShell, GPOs, DNS, DHCP, File and Print services.  • Experienced in installing, maintaining, and managing Windows servers on various hardware platforms.  • Excellent analytical, troubleshooting, time management, problem solving skills.  • Follows through on assignments and projects with minimal direction, have worked remotely for ten years  • Experienced in the ITIL framework, change management and incident management  • Able to conceptualize technical issues, research server and network problems. Work Experience Senior Corporate Systems Administrator/Cloud Architect PGI January 2013 to Present • Managed day-to-day operations of global, multi-organization exchange and active directory environment supporting over 10000 AD objects.  • Provided Windows Server management for 100+ physical servers and Hyper-V 200+ VM's.  • Served as technical project lead for the migration to Exchange Online and maintained the Hybrid Exchange deployment.  • Architected the Exchange 2010 to Exchange Online migration.  • Architected the migration to Microsoft Office 365 services and Azure  • Setup, maintained and administrated Azure AD conditional access, Identity Protection and PIM  • Provided full Office 365 Services Administrator tasks licensing, AD Connect, EXO, OneDrive for Business, O365 groups, O365 teams as well as Azure AD identity management.  • Implemented, maintained and administered Mimecast Security suite, which included Targeted Threat Protection, Secure Messaging, Email Archiving and Continuity.  • Implemented and administered DLP security polices for O365  • Defined and maintained data retention policy for EXO, SPO and OneDrive for Business.  • Migrated 3000+ users from OCS to Skype for Business  • Maintained SSL Certificate management for various applications.  • Setup, Managed and implemented ADFS for SSO for various applications.  • Setup and Deployed Azure MFA for North America employees.  • Provided third-level escalation support for helpdesk and desktop support teams for all active directory and messaging-related support issues and requests.  • Participated in all Active Directory and Messaging-related tasks for all PGi domains in the capacity of an Enterprise admin.  • Responsible for day to day operational activities to ensure health and integrity of global messaging systems for 8000+ objects Senior Systems Administrator LAYERED TECHNOLOGIES June 2012 to January 2013 • Architected and deployed Exchange migration from 2007 to 2010 to EXO/Office365  • Consulted, reviewed and provided solutions for clients Infrastructure requirements  • Provided level three support to various clients for Windows Systems Infrastructure  • Administering, Managing and troubleshooting Exchange 2007 and 2010 for several clients with 12000+ mailboxes  • Provided Citrix Xenapp 6.5 administration.  • Provided VMware ESXi infrastructure support for several clients. Lead the Migration 2010 to 2010 from Exchange 2003 to Exchange 2007 to Exchange 2010 utilizing Quest tools  • Designed, built and implemented Blackberry Enterprise server 4.1 and 5.0  • Experience with VMware ESXi and Virtual Center 200+ Servers.  • Experience with Trend Micro Control Manger.  • Performed daily backup operations for all North American locations.  • Applied OS patches both with SCCM and Manually.  • Experienced with implementation and support of Citrix Presentation Server.  • Investigated and troubleshot all hardware and software issues.  • Ensured highly functioning stable systems by performing regular systems monitoring. Education MS in Information Systems Security Colorado Technical University BS in Information Technology University of Phoenix AS in Business Administration Tulsa Community College