Regional Systems Support Specialist Regional <span class="hl">Systems</span> Support Specialist Regional Systems Support Specialist - Nixon Peabody US LLP Tysons Corner, VA Skilled IT Support Professional with over 8 years of experience providing exceptional technical support and troubleshooting in large and small office environments. Extensive experience in all aspects of solving server, network, and desktop technology issues as well as providing audio-visual technical support and proactive customer service. Continually exceeds expectations by building valuable relationships and works well with people at all levels of an organization, including stakeholders, management, team members, and clients. Work Experience Regional Systems Support Specialist Nixon Peabody US LLP - Washington, DC October 2018 to Present • Providing in-person or remote desktop support of the firm's information technology assets and software applications to all 200+ attorneys, executives, and staff in the Washington, D.C. and Raleigh offices.  • Participating in the testing, troubleshooting, and rollouts of all major firm software or hardware upgrades including major Windows Operating System updates, wired and wireless networking hardware installations, and other propriety software.  • Configuring desktops, laptops, mobile devices, smartphones, telephones, multifunction Work Centers, or printers per the standard configuration process as direct by the Local IT Manager.  • Accepting ownership and accountability for Service Desk call tickets, acknowledging and resolving client service and IT issues, applying extensive technical knowledge to answer questions, ensuring client satisfaction while providing professional client support. Systems Administrator IAC Applications, Inc - New York, NY February 2015 to September 2018 • Provided desktop and audio-visual support to all 300+ employees and executives, primarily within the New York Office, in a mixed Windows and Mac OS X operating systems environment.  • Increased team efficiency by improving hardware/software deployment and lifecycle management practices. Including:  ? Leading the implementation of both JAMF Pro (Mac OS X workstations) and ManageEngine DesktopCentral (Windows workstations) to automate deployment and provide more detailed monitoring/reporting of hardware and software usage.  • Collaborated with various other IT leaders in several security-based infrastructure strengthening projects and initiatives. Including:  ? Leading the implementation of Microsoft Local Administrator Password Randomization (LAPS).  ? The rebuild of the Windows Operating System patching environment and the creation of new patch deployment policies and procedures.  • Installed and maintained new or existing physical and virtual servers by configuring all hardware, services, settings, network shares and storage in accordance with operational/project requirements.  • Created and enforced Windows Group Policies used to ensure all user workstations were in compliance with IT policy.  • Quickly and efficiently resolved all assigned JIRA work order tickets, collaborating with other IT teams, such as DevOps and Networking, when necessary. Associate Systems Administrator IAC Applications, Inc - Yonkers, NY November 2013 to February 2015 • Provided desktop and audio-visual support to over 300 company employees, including executives, via telephone, remote access troubleshooting and in-person.  • Corresponded between corporate offices to provide additional technical support to other company business units/teams and executives as requested.  • Led and managed team projects such as company-wide software roll-outs (Microsoft Office 2013) and the rebuild and deployment of the Symantec Endpoint Protection anti-virus environment.  • Onboarded all company new hires by creating user email accounts, configuring workstations, and providing IT orientation sessions as well as efficiently and effectively resolved Tier 1 and Tier 2 work order tickets submitted through Atlassian JIRA with little to no supervision or escalation. IT Technology Support/Audio-Visual Specialist Hogan Lovells US LLP - New York, NY June 2012 to November 2013 • Provided technical support to more than 400 New York attorneys, executives, and staff via telephone and in-person, overseeing the use and maintenance of all audio-visual equipment used for daily meetings or various firm-sponsored events.  • Assisted in the installation and continued maintenance of all firm IT assets including PC hardware, software, printers, and audio-visual equipment as well as assisted Network and Telecommunication engineers in the troubleshooting or maintenance of all networking equipment.  • Applied technical expertise to solve complex technical problems through creative and sound troubleshooting while partnering with technical support and enterprise services to provide proactive and reactive technology solutions to internal firm personnel.  • Maintained IT asset inventory, conducting testing and preventive maintenance as well as working with vendors to troubleshoot and resolve issues with smartphones, PCs, printers and AV equipment. Media Services Assistant Supervisor Dynamic Campus Solutions, Inc, Manhattanville College - Purchase, NY July 2010 to May 2012 • Coordinated all audio-visual services provided to the university and managed the operation and continued maintenance of facilities used for large university events such as open houses and campus lectures.  • Supervised and trained staff, organizing team schedules to provide a high level of customer service and coverage for the setup, operation, and maintenance of all Media Services equipment.  • Provided hands-on technical support to all faculty, staff, and administration. Proactively evaluating and improving Media Services policies and procedures in response to technical or service issues encountered.  • Resolved issues concerning staffing, equipment, and all audio-visual services including troubleshooting technical problems in a high-stress environment while managing daily operations with the Director of User Services. Education Bachelor of Arts in Finance in Finance Manhattanville College 2010 Skills Active directory, Dns, Exchange, Itil, Networking, Customer Service, Desktop Support, Help Desk Certifications/Licenses ITIL v4 July 2019 to Present