System Administrator <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator - Steward Medical Group Syracuse, UT I am detail-oriented with excellent analytical and organizational skills, experience in the Health Care Industry, problem  solving, and I have the ability to work well with people to build long-term relationships. I am well versed in NextGen,  Cerner, McKesson, etc. I have a history of being an effective team member with a desire to provide the best support  possible to those I interact with both internally and externally. Work Experience System Administrator Steward Medical Group - Salt Lake City, UT October 2014 to Present In this position, I am responsible for completing the following objectives:  • Resolve complex IT issues for Medical Clinics and Hospitals. • Coordinate and rollout system upgrade.  • Coordinates resolution strategies with Hospital and Medical Clinic Managers • Work directly with Clinic managers and Doctors in improving end user  and Physicians. experiences.  • Manage Clinical IT infrastructure. • Educate Physicians and Clinical Staff on the usage of Medical Record  • Network and Desktop Support. systems with emphasis on best practices to steam line and simplify end  user experiences.  • Influential in the decision making for changes to Medical Record and Clinical  systems. • Work directly with the IT Director to implement IT improvement  strategies. IT Manager/ Network Administrator Packsize International LLC - Salt Lake City, UT May 2013 to October 2014 In this position my responsibilities were:  • Manage the IT Support Department. • Streamlined provisioning of company laptops saving the company  • Manage Global Exchange Email system. almost $30K in one year.    • Strategically Plan and Implement technology uses throughout the • Work hand in hand with Accounting in quarterly negotiations with Cell  company. Phone provider saving almost $28k in one year.    • Manage Network infrastructure, Server configurations and Global • Implemented a sustainable Help Desk system to streamline support  Communications. resolutions making IT support more effective.    • Coordinate and rollout system upgrades. • Implemented Dropbox for Business streamlining communication on a Global scale.  • Manage enrollment and system access for employees. Systems Administrator Salt Lake Regional Medical Center - Salt Lake City, UT April 2011 to May 2013 • Manage and Support Network and Desktop systems.  • Coordinate and rollout system upgrades.  • Manage enrollment and system access for employees.  • Manage monthly and quarterly reports for Hospital Census Program Manager Sanmina - SCI - Salt Lake City, UT April 2010 to May 2013 • Coordinate projects between engineers, buyers and manufacturing floor manager.  • Responsible for assisting sales team by providing assembly quotes.  • Responsible for tracking receipt of parts in order to complete client projects. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Information Systems University of Phoenix - Salt Lake City, UT 1995 to 1998 Weber State University - Ogden, UT 1992 to 1995 General Studies University of Utah - Salt Lake City, UT 1989 to 1990 Skills Citrix, Vmware, Networking, Microsoft office, Windows 7, Windows server 2008, Mac, Mac os, Training, System Administrator, Active Directory, System Admin