Systems Manager <span class="hl">Systems</span> Manager Systems Manager - MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS White Plains, NY Motivated and driven Systems Manager with exceptional experience in IT infrastructure, Software Operating Systems/Platforms, IT Security, IT Project Management, and Planning, that has guided all efforts to the operational efficiency, cost reduction, and leveraging of large data to help drive better and more profitable business decisions. Work Experience Systems Manager MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS December 2017 to Present • Act as the Subject Matter Expert (SME) on a total of 10 new security proposals and/or requests as well as provide summary report revisions of the proposed/requested technology in order to align business needs with emerging technologies.  • Lead Manager in the collection, retention, and dissemination of information to 2 of clients, 3 key stake holders.  • Liaison with clients and key stakeholders to execute a total of 15 projects through the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), in order to identify and analyze business requirements as well as to manage the progress throughout the design, test and implementation process.  • Developed step by step guidelines for 40 finalized Methods of Procedures (Mops) in order to provide how-to procedures for the maintenance, security, and upgrade of the networks, as well as end-user consoles.  • Identified, investigated, diagnosed over 50 network errors involving the hardware, software, power and/or communications issues.  • Simultaneously managed 5 high-level and high-profile projects each consisting of over 50 tasks with authority and effectively closed all projects successfully.  • Led as well as participated in over 200 project related meetings with internal staff, key stakeholders and/or clients maintain consistent and clear communication as well as to track overall progress.  • Collaborated with 3 additional project managers, 2 architects, 3 engineers, and 5 technicians to properly diagnose 10 network issues and aided in drafting 25 reports to establish and implement network management policies and guidelines. Network Analyst NTT June 2016 to May 2017 • Developed 2 manuals for upgrading various elements of higher-level client networks.  • Assisted in training 3 new clients on network procedures and priority lists.  • Installed and replaced over 20 Cisco switches.  • Upgraded over 10 existing equipment hardware and IOS.  • Conducted troubleshooting procedures for over 4 LAN/WAN assigned tickets for 4 hospitals.  • Assisted in 4 network transfers during the acquisition of 4 hospitals while also providing maintenance of existing equipment.  • Assisted a 3-person security team in the installation and replacement of 15 Cisco FW ASA.  • Performed daily troubleshooting and virus detection processes and generated reports for management.  • Worked closely with a10-person IT support team to identify and eliminate recurring network issues. Project Manager RHI October 2015 to December 2015 • Was responsible for the overall redesign of the client LAN, including VLANs consolidations, new layer 3 routing schema, addition of VTP domain, upgrade of security, and replacement of 5 "End of Life" switches with newer 3800 models.  • Inventoried 2 LAN, 5 server equipment and gathered all requirements from client upper management in order to draft the migration planning, identify the scope of project, outline the schedule and necessary resources as well as prepare contingency plan.  • Built 2 VMware LINUX RED HAT 7 server: ran comparison tests of NAGIOS and SPICE monitoring system performances.  • Provided 3 recommendations for additional monitoring tools for LAN and servers and added SNMP V3 monitoring ability.  • Facilitated over 12 project related meetings with internal staff and key stakeholders to ensure responsibilities were clearly communicated, and to track each project milestones as well as the overall progress of the project. System Administrator Raytheon October 2012 to October 2013 Video System  • Was responsible for translating Army requests into technical requirements.  • Documented 50 software error messages, to include but not limited to: MS SQL.  • Participated in over 50 Change Request meetings and maintained the proper documentation and dissemination of all changes.  • Worked with a 2-person Security team, a 3-person Architecture team and a 5-person Infrastructure team to assess and avert any potential risks/threats that may arise during deployment.  • Supported and monitored the health of a proprietary and classified JAVA based Digital Video Application System used for surveillance of ANTI-terrorist activities and identification.  • Conducted 20 root cause analyses, investigated and worked with 5 developers for a resolution.  • Updated10 Servers including IIS web server.  • Assigned 50 permissions and as well as revoked 100 access to SharePoint Server and maintained documentation of the 1000+ users.  • Managed the reinstallation of 4 SAN equipment.  • Conducted redesign of the rack space for better efficiency and managed 25 nodes.  • Installed Windows 2008 Servers on 6 machines: provided troubleshoot techniques and replaced 20 servers with failed hardware. Senior Project Manager EOIR February 2012 to September 2012 • Successfully managed the installation of over 10 Point-to-Point radio equipment such as Motorola PTP600 models as WAN links to augment or replace existing ones to Broadband for the support of the Full Motion Video (FMV) upgrade initiative in Afghanistan for Force Protection and Persistent Surveillance Sensor Systems:  • Attuned Microwave Line of Sight (MLoS) and de-conflicted transmit/receive signals to ensure optimum peak performance as well as to prevent interference with radio frequencies.  • Oversaw the configuration and installation of over 10 V-Brick digital video compression and encoders to real-time video feeds of Standard Ground Stations (SGS) of Persistent Threat Detection Systems (PTDS) and Persistent Ground Surveillance Systems (PGSS) connected to RAID Towers and Aerostat camera systems and sensors.  • Tested 20 Multi-cast video streams, their interoperability and dissemination via classified networks throughout Theater, for availability to the war fighter.  • Provided technical training to over 5 assigned personnel.  • Coordinated with Helpdesk to assist in the resolution of over 50 issues.  • Deployed and traveled to Fobs throughout Afghanistan, for extended periods of time under austere conditions in order to carry out 20 missions of critical installations. Network Administrator Lead ITT EXELIS June 2008 to February 2012 Datacenter Manager  • Successfully delivered the security migration of the secured Army networks by implementing 802.1X, Radius and TACACS access project to all switch ports in compliance to DoD mandates for 2-factor authentication logon of army personnel.  • Monitored Network equipment with various SNMP tools and programs and the physical access and security into key locations of ADNs and remote access Network equipment for troubleshooting.  • Oversaw a 3-person team of engineers throughout the configuration, deployment and securing of Cisco Switches in Army LAN and upgraded their respective IOS.  • Installed and replaced 3000 switches as well as stripped the Datacenter equipment upon base closure.  • Managed 12 networks administrators and engineers and coordinated all high-level activities necessary to reach the objectives of the US Army.  • Defined the scope of over 25 projects and prioritized requirements in order to meet deadlines.  • Was directly responsible for the redesign, consolidation, and implementation of a DOD Enterprise Network with over 1100 switches, in 3 enclaves.  • Led in the troubleshooting and preventions of 2 Network outages in an EIGRP environment resulting in the 100% mission success due to the continuous ability to disseminate vital information to troops.  • Ensured continued connectivity, ventilation and electrical power to all switch locations and conducted troubleshooting procedures during Fiber Optics breaks, as well as HVAC and electrical power generator failures.  • Supervised the development in support of 3 migration procedures, such as network redundancy and Re-I Ping of 3 VLANs.  • Developed and conducted migration presentations, as requested and worked with PMS, to develop and maintain migration projects remained on schedule.  • Developed 30 engineering documentation, processes and standards.  • Presented 150 briefings and over 30 presentations on Enterprise Migration Projects to 10 key leaders; 5 local on-site representatives to customer's organization.  • Managed the assignment of 600 nodes to corresponding VLANs. Administer DCHP reservations and VLAN scopes and spear-headed the project of adding 10 new IP subnets to super-scopes.  • Blocked and prohibited the access to Network resources of 300 non-complaint nodes for virus infestation and investigated, documented and tracked down unauthorized PCs connected to LAN.  • Managed the base-wide addition, modification and removal of Cisco VOIP phones project.  • Carried the building of a VMPS Linux System and maintained the LAN and switch inventory files. Education Skidmore College in WIndows Administration Computer Systems Institute - White Plains, NY Skills Active directory, Cisco (8 years), Orion (5 years), Datacenter (10+ years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/bruno-chapeton