Help Desk Technician/ System Administrator Help Desk Technician/ <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Information Technology Specialist (Help Desk Technician / Systems Administrator) - United States Army Fort Stewart, GA Work Experience Help Desk Technician/ System Administrator United States Army - Fort Stewart, GA January 2015 to Present Serves as the Help Technician for an organization with over 700 personnel. To include initiating and assisting with video tele-conference (VTC) sessions and troubleshooting automation equipment for hardware and software malfunctions.  ? Consistently improves information technology operations, decrease turnaround times, streamline work processes and work cooperatively and jointly to provide quality seamless customer service.  ? Conducts training on a monthly, quarterly and annual basis on physical and information security awareness.  To ensure a person knows how to respond to potential threats and potential security violations.  ? Oversees system administration and small computer response for 1,300 users across five diverse/secure information technology networks.  ? Supervises sites' hardware/software maintenance resolution and repair for local information technology network/operating system configurations for senior leadership and supporting staff.  ? Act as a point of contact between the organization, and other Government agencies, outside entities, and coordinate with other security office to exchange appropriate system access information.  ? Ensures computer system security and integrity were in compliance with DoD and Army network policies, regulations, federal laws, and precedent decisions.  ? Monitors, evaluates, and maintains over 200 systems and procedures to protect data systems and databases from unauthorized users.  ? Administers the accountability of information technology and communications equipment worth $140,000 and provided technical support to the command group and special staff.  ? Supervises, installs, operates and performs unit level maintenance on multi-functional/multi-user information processing systems, peripheral equipment, and associated devices in mobile and government facilities.  ? Monitors and manages email spam filters, firewall, anti-virus systems, and government scanners in support of Garrison and combat operations.  ? Advises on technical support, troubleshooting, maintenance, and upgrades to help military personnel maintain their Oracle and Microsoft SQL database infrastructure.  ? Worked with Server Team to incorporate and maintain organizational units into Active Directory Users & Computers.  ? Assist, managed and deployed over 2,000 systems with network configurations to allow the broadcast of the Software Center Configuration Manager PXE request to be forwarded beyond the local subnet.  ? Install, configure and support Microsoft technology solutions on windows 2012 platform while maintaining security patches, antivirus updates, backups, monitoring and performing routine server maintenance. Information Technology Specialist (Help Desk Technician / Systems Administrator) United States Army May 2014 to Present Supervisor: SGT Arroyo Giron, (912)-346-1890, alexgiron26642@hotmail.com Education Bachelor's Degree in Cybersecurity Management and Policy in Cybersecurity Management and Policy University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD May 2019 Associate's Degree in General Studies in General Studies University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD October 2017 High School Diploma Clifton J. Ozen Magnet High School - Beaumont, TX June 2013 Skills Customer relations, Customer service, Problem-solving, Presentation skills, Process improvement, Active Directory, Windows 7, Technical Support, Windows, Security, System Administrator, System Admin, SCCM Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/dante-williams-b06559141 Additional Information With over five years of information technology expertise, knowledge and training, provided implementation methodologies to protect people, systems and facilities. Assisted government organizations with establishing operating policies and procedures that prevents the unauthorized users, proprietary materials and equipment. Extensive knowledge in Information Technology (IT) Operations and Management with military/civilian environments. Proficient in performance management, IT operations, and Microsoft Office. Decorated United States Army career; honorable discharge.    SKILLS  Problem-Solving Skills ? Process Improvement ? Solve Complex Problems  Active Learning/Listening ? Customer Service/Customer Relations ? Judgment and Decision Making  Excellent Communication and Presentation Skills ? Organization and High Productivity ? Leadership/Management  CAREER OVERVIEW WITH HIGHLIGHTED ACCOMPLISHMENTS