IT Support Analyst IT Support Analyst IT Support Analyst - BioTelemetry Inc Township of Hamilton, NJ Work Experience IT Support Analyst BioTelemetry Inc - Hamilton, PA 2016 to Present Demonstrate expertise and success in enterprise-wide technology support to ensure complex systems  and IT products operate at maximum performance. Serve as strategic technical lead and administrator for Windows Server, SharePoint, and Active Directory while resolving 70% of daily tickets and providing  remote assistance for doctors and nurses. Successfully support patented wireless heart monitoring  systems and applications and set up multiple physical patches and devices for 100 technicians. Develop  documentation reporting for multiple applications for senior leadership to make effective business  decisions.  Key Achievements:  • Successfully resolved 1800 tickets in one year (8% of all tickets) for five major global locations while effectively supporting 120 users in Trenton and 85 users in Norfolk.  • Served as periodic 24-hour Global Support Analyst and achieved zero issues with HIPAA audits due  to strategic business efforts.  • Constructed new training rooms and offices with world-class technical products.  • Installed new phone systems across the entire organization.  • Contributed to cost-savings measures by streamlining processes in line with improvement  initiatives. Systems Administrator Assistant New Jersey School Boards Association - Trenton, NJ 2014 to 2016 Provided technical support by serving as technical lead for all district meetings and presentation and consultant on acquiring and integrating new contract approval software. Led multiple technology  projects and streamlined processes for installing software and hardware for various school departments  across the district. Successfully managed technical aspects of event planning including voice recording, video, and live stream. Built and created image software for Windows desktops and laptops.  Key Achievements:  • Organized, set up, and supported Atlantic City New Jersey School Boards Association Workshop  Convention.  • Integrated and consulted on Contract Approval and Ticket System software applications.  • Served as lead support for the Director and Governor at various workshop locations. Information Technology Technician Rider University - Lawrenceville, NJ 2009 to 2014 Delivered support and resolution for computer-related issues via email and telephone. Installed and fixed  printers, Dell laptops, Mac PCs, and MacBooks while reimaging computer systems using GhostCast, multicast, and troubleshooting external drives.  Key Achievements:  • Conducted installation projects on over 250 campus computers and coordinated the removal and recycle of computer systems.  • Produced and resolved tickets utilizing Parature Customer Service for students and faculty. Education MBA Rider University - Lawrenceville, NJ 2014 Bachelor of Science in (BS) - Computer Information Systems Rider University - Lawrenceville, NJ 2011 Skills Active directory, Exchange, Citrix, Network monitoring, Vmware, Sharepoint, Ghost, Ghost imaging, Video conferencing, Imaging, Sap, Printers, Mac, Mac os, Microsoft office Links http://linkedin.com/in/ryan-murphy-77849274 Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES    Platforms: Windows, Mac OS, Windows Server  Tools: Active Directory, Bomgar, RDP, Adobe, WebEx, Google Docs, Microsoft Office Suite, MS  Exchange, SAP, Citrix, VMware, Custom Heart Monitoring Applications, Acronis Imaging,  Ghost Imaging, Unity Client, PTRG Network Monitoring, OnPage, Retarus Fax Solutions,  SharePoint  Hardware: Laptops, Printers, Desktops, Samsung Phones, Evolve Phones, Video Conferencing