Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Content Producer Mayfield, KY Hard working and experienced media producer with proven leadership, organizational and production skills seeking to apply my skills to larger enterprises. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Credit Bureau Systems - Paducah, KY February 2018 to Present To maintain a constant workflow of XML imports to ensure that all EMS clients reach a 100% import rating.    To create, update and remove user access to all software as needed.    To ensure a prompt and efficient response to system errors in order to maintain steady workflow.    To keep all patient information secure in accordance with HIPAA regulations.    To generate comprehensive client reports for review on a as needed basis. Video Services Assistant Murray Electric System - Murray, KY January 2015 to February 2018 Generating and maintaining content for Murray Electric Systems Channels 11, 15 and 18.  ? To broadcast live sports coverage for the Murray High Tigers and the Calloway County Lakers.  ? To schedule all production on a daily schedule using the Nexus software.  ? To provide production consulting for area schools and churches to ensure a constant creation of content  ? To provide coverage and to render services for community events in and around the city of Murray, Kentucky. Sales Associate Phelps Farm and Home Service - Paducah, KY August 2011 to December 2015 Responsibilities included to provide excellent customer service  ? To maintain a constant and accurate inventory of warehouse and showroom items.  ? To receive and ship deliveries to providers and customers. Video Assistant West Kentucky and Tennessee Telecommunications - Mayfield, KY September 2010 to May 2011 Work as a camera operator during live productions of sporting events  ? Work as audio director during live productions  ? Work as line director during live production Education Bachelor of Science in Television Production with Journalism Minor Murray State University - Murray, KY 2014 to 2016 Associate of Arts West Kentucky Community and Technical College - Paducah, KY August 2011 to December 2013 Skills Adobe Creative Cloud (5 years), Audio Mixing (7 years), Video Production (8 years), Video Editing (8 years), Customer Service Skills (4 years), Excel (3 years), Graphic Design, Social Media, Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, Digital Marketing Links https://mattchappellblog.wordpress.com Additional Information SKILLS    • Proficiency in camera operations  • Proficiency in Adobe Creative Cloud Software  • Expertise in audio mixing for a live setting and for post-production   • Proficiency in voice over work  • Expertise in Microsoft Office  • Proficiency in Information Technology and Administration