Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Senior Systems Engineer Torrance, CA Highly skilled, experienced, and industry-certified (COMPTIA CySA+ CE) Cybersecurity and Information Technology Professional with over 10 years of proven ability. Particular strength in strategic network design analysis, troubleshooting, maintenance and optimization.     IT consultation and account management with an advisory role to clients, providing services to meet business needs of industries within the private sector.    Notable success within Network Design Implementation, Systems Administration, Cloud Migrations, and Tech Support. Work Experience Systems Engineer Kinecta Federal Credit Union - Manhattan Beach, CA June 2019 to July 2019 Kinecta Federal Credit Union is one of the nation's largest credit unions, with approximately $4.44 billion in assets    Systems Engineer – Contract  Assisted in completing project requirements involving Data Center migration (Corporate Headquarters ~800 Servers).    ? VMWare / ESXi 6.5 Administration, HP Blade Servers, Symantec AV Solution, Altiris  ? Microsoft Server 2016 Server Provisioning, Cisco ASA Firewall Admnistration  ? Identified areas for improvement related to Server Build Processes and Information Security  ? Application Migrations via SRM  ? Collaborated with IT departments to accomplish project requirements  ? Remediated Vulnerabilities as per Vulnerability Scans Senior Systems Engineer TeamLogic IT May 2017 to April 2019 May 2017 - April 2019  TeamLogic IT is a national Franchise Network of Managed Service Providers (MSPs), providing IT service, support, project consultation, and account management for businesses.    Senior Systems Engineer  Served major lead role in design, implementation, and maintenance of IT environments for multiple local and national businesses, including department of defense (DoD) contractors, non-profit organizations, real estate firms, management consultant firms , and retail firms. Developed excellent customer relationships while providing the highest standard of technical IT support, contributing to 100% customer retention rate. Implemented Cybersecurity and incident response policies.    ? Established Cybersecurity controls necessary for compliance requirements (NIST, etc)  ? Implemented SOPs for Internal day-to-day activities  ? Provided Risk-assessment and vulnerability scans with respect to IT systems and network infrastructure  ? Implemented Security Information and Event Monitoring (SIEM) solutions and developed incident response procedures (Playbooks, Severity Models, Documentation, etc)  ? Developed security policies (GPO) and auditing reports  ? Managed Help Desk operations (Autotask)  ? Performed Email migrations (on premise to cloud - Office 365 / GSuite)  ? Microsoft Office 365 Administration (including Email, Sharepoint, OneDrive, etc)  ? Systems Administration via Microsoft Active Directory and NPS  ? Network Administration including 802.1x, VLAN management, DHCP scoping, and VoIP traffic optimization using Industry Standard equipment (Dell, Sonicwall, Cisco, HP, Watchguard, etc.)  ? Administered Storage Area Networks (SAN)  ? Designed, Configured, and Administered failover (cluster) systems for High-Availability (HA)  ? Designed, Configured, and Administered Virtualization Host Platforms (VMWare, Hyper-V, etc.)  ? VoIP PBX administration (Allworx, Shoretel, Jive) IT Consultant (Contract) October 2016 to May 2017 Provided Network and Systems Administration for multiple clients including prestigious Hollywood Visual Effects Production Studios and national Healthcare firms.    Network Administrator, Linux Systems (CentOS) Administrator, Network Engineer  Contract positions fulfilling diverse IT roles. Movie Productions Studio and Healthcare firm with offices throughout US and Canada. Responsible for managing and supporting Linux and Windows based infrastructure, including design, configuration and optimization of all Firewalls, Ethernet switches and phone systems (PBX and VOIP). Coordinate activities with Producers, Artists, and healthcare professionals. Provide technical assistance to entire company and call centers.    ? Administration of SANS and DFS filesystem networks  ? Administration of HP, Cisco, Watchguard, and Fiber Switches, firewalls, and Access Points  ? Configuration of PCoIP clients and hosts  ? Remote Technical Support  ? Maintained and Supported IT equipment in 3rd party Data Center (VoIP, NIS Servers, metadata controllers, etc.)  ? Configured and Administered Server OS and Client builds (CentOS / Linux, Microsoft Server, Windows)  ? Administered Apple OSX and PC workstations (Microsoft and Linux -based Domain)  ? Deployed Virtualization via Amazon AWS and Hyper-V  ? Establish site-to-site Connectivity (Branch Office VPN tunnels / IPSEC etc.)  ? XSAN administration  ? Implemented network security (IPS / IDS - Intrusion Prevention / Detection Systems)  ? Microsoft Active Directory Administration - Group Policy, WSUS integration, etc.  ? Custom Scripting (VBA, Login/Logoff, etc.) IT Consultant Ventura and Orange Counties April 2011 to October 2016 Managed Services Provider providing IT services to clients located in the LA, Ventura and Orange Counties. Clients include a diverse mix of government agencies, private firms, startups, corporate environments, restaurants, and retail and small businesses.    Network Engineer, Systems Administration, Web Development  Manage client and server-side operations, troubleshooting, migrations, data backups, email migrations and new deployments, involving Virtualization, ERP and CRM and EDI technologies (Microsoft Dynamics AX and GP with API integrations). Responsible for managing and supporting corporate Windows infrastructure, including design, configuration, and optimization of all Ethernet switches and phone systems (PBX and VOIP). Coordinate activities with vendors and outside consultants. Provide technical assistance to entire company and call center. Microsoft 365 Administrator. Microsoft Dynamics AX Administrator.    ? Planned, created, and implemented Office 365 (Sharepoint, Lync, etc.) cloud migrations and deployments for company-wide personnel (Microsoft Exchange Administration).  ? Planned, implemented and administered Network Domains via Active Directory (Microsoft Server).  ? Created, updated, and maintained help-desk service tickets via cloud solution (Connectwise, custom-designed Web Applications)  ? Provided client support remotely (Labtech, Microsoft Remote Services) as well as on premise support via personal transportation.  ? Provided VPN and Remote Access solutions and administered firewall / network security functionality (SonicWall, Cisco, MPLS and Site-to-Site VPN infrastructure) Pioneer DJ Americas, Inc - Long Beach, CA March 2015 to March 2016 Pioneer Corporation is a leading global manufacturer of electronics products for the consumer and professional markets. Pioneer DJ is the favored brand of worldwide DJs, with a leading presence in the DJ equipment market. Pioneer DJ leads the top global market share due to its strong brand image and technological differentiation.    Systems Administrator  Managed server-side operations, ERP, CRM and EDI technologies (Microsoft Dynamics AX). Responsible for managing and supporting the corporate Windows infrastructure, including design, configuration and optimization of all Ethernet switches and phone systems (PBX and VOIP). Coordinate activities with vendors and outside consultants. Provide technical assistance to entire company and call center. Microsoft 365 Administrator. Microsoft Dynamics AX Administrator.    ? Planned, created, and implemented entire IT infrastructure  ? Planned, implemented and administered ERP solution (Dynamics AX )  ? Planned, implemented and administered Network Domain via Active Directory (Microsoft Server) and Office 365 (Sharepoint, Lync, etc.) technologies.  ? Created and Deployed company-wide IT help desk system website online.  ? Deployed automated EDI transaction system integrated with ERP solution.  ? Involved in budget and execution of company relocation including all IT infrastructure and new Cat5e cabling installation to new location.  ? Assisted President and Vice - President of operations in all aspects of company operations involving IT Project Management, accounting and operations (customized BI reporting, budgeting / forecasting, etc.)  ? Created automated accounting reports and report repository used by accounting team for monthly closing procedures Systems Administrator JK Imaging ltd - Torrance, CA February 2014 to March 2015 General Imaging Co (General Electric), Torrance, CA February 2014 - March 2015  JK Imaging is an official licensee for Kodak line of digital cameras. General Imaging Co is an official licensee for General Electric line of digital cameras.    Systems Administrator  Managed server-side operations. Administered ERP and CRM technologies (Microsoft Dynamics GP, Microsoft CRM). Responsible for managing and supporting the corporate Windows infrastructure, including configuration and optimization of all network switches and phone systems (PBX and VOIP). Coordinated activities with vendors and outside consultants. Built specific reports based on needs presented by call center, operations, accounting, or IT Manager. Provided technical assistance to entire company and call center.    ? Deployed and administered Microsoft Dynamics (Great Plains) technologies  ? Implemented security protocols and user permissions via Active Directory (Microsoft Server)  ? Custom server and VBA scripting/programming  ? Involved in relocation of entire computer network system and data installation to new location  ? Managed and performed entire new CAT5e cabling installation in new building  ? Office 365 (Sharepoint, Lync, etc.) administration Education A.A. in Computer Science Los Angeles City College - Los Angeles, CA A.A in Mathematics and Natural Sciences Los Angeles Harbor College - Wilmington, CA A.S. in Physics, A.S (Some Coursework Completed) Los Angeles Harbor Community College - Wilmington, CA B.S. in Computer Science (Some Coursework Completed) California State University Los Angeles - Los Angeles, CA Skills Vmware, Linux, Active Directory, System Administrator, System Admin, Networking (7 years), Incident Management (3 years), Systems Integration (7 years), Information Security (4 years), Nist, Siem, It Security, Cyber Security, Cybersecurity, Network Security, Comptia Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ CompTIA Network+ COMPTIA CySA+ CE Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/s4nkabf7wxg4y6xp Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills Include    Information Technology  Network Design and Administration  Cybersecurity Incident Response  Web/App Development  Planning / Management of Technology Life Cycles  Business Continuity  Disaster Recovery  Network Architecture   LAN/WAN Infrastructure   Microsoft 365 / Exchange Administration   Routing Protocols   Network / Server Administration   Group Policy   Active Directory   Microsoft Server OS  System/File Auditing   RMM   Scripting   C++/C#/Java/HTML/JSP/VBA/AP and Web Programming   Web Development / API Programming   SQL Database Management   SIEM   Incident Response