Lead Systems Engineer Lead <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer IT Professional Bowling Green, KY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Systems Engineer Western Kentucky University - Bowling Green, KY June 2019 to Present I lead a team of systems administrators tasked with the design, implementation, and administration of data center infrastructure and IT systems for Western Kentucky University. Our systems serve 20,000+ students and 3,000+ employees spread across four campuses and a worldwide online learning community.  •  Lead technical resource for all WKU systems infrastructure. Provide design and technical oversight for all enterprise virtualization, storage, and servers, both on-premise and public cloud.  •  Provide leadership and supervision to the Systems Administration team, promoting technical proficiency among team members and ensuring efficiencies in the team’s daily operations.  •  Direct the development and maintenance of technical systems documentation.  •  Establish and maintain partnerships with outside vendors to secure the best possible pricing, value, and service for the University.  •  Act in a consulting capacity regarding University wide or departmental projects that require ITS collaboration throughout their lifecycle.  •  Provide advanced technical support to other IT staff and in limited cases directly to clients.  •  Collaborate with relevant colleagues to participate in a unified ITS business continuity / disaster recovery strategy.  •   Research, evaluate, and implement new technologies including technical analysis, cost analysis, and strategic planning. Systems Administrator Western Kentucky University - Bowling Green, KY August 2016 to June 2019 • Co-manage crucial IT infrastructure including two data centers and multiple SAN  environments.  • Responsible for the deployment and administration of Windows and Linux server  operating systems.  • Install and administer enterprise SAN hardware including Cisco FC switches and storage appliances from DellEMC, NetApp, and IBM.  • Maintain and enhance the university's VMware environment (20+ hosts, 400+ virtual  servers) including vSphere configuration, ESX host management and PowerCLI scripting.  • Designed and configured AWS cloud infrastructure and migrated select workloads  off-site.  • Install and maintain database software including MS SQL Server, MySQL, and MariaDB.  • Configure and support enterprise server hardware and software, including advanced  hardware, software, and network troubleshooting.  • Administer and support mission critical systems including Blackboard Learn, Red Hat  Satellite, Mediasite lecture capture, Office365, Exchange 2016, Windows file and print  servers, Active Directory, Bomgar, NFS file servers, and many others.  • Maintain systems security by assessing and mitigating any detected or anticipated  threats.  • Manage a Nagios network monitoring solution to proactively verify the health of enterprise systems.  • Primary admin for SAP Business Objects Enterprise BI platform. Technical lead on upgrade from v4.1 to v4.2  • Develop automation/configuration tools using various technologies including Ansible,  Powershell, bash, and Python.  • Manage DNS and DHCP configuration as needed using Infoblox.  • Coordinate with hardware and software vendors in order to obtain product support,  execute projects, and implement/upgrade systems.  • Configure and administer mission critical backup and disaster recovery solutions  including Veeam and Zerto.  • Participate in a 24/7 on-call rotation to address after-hours systems issues. Network Specialist Western Kentucky University - Bowling Green, KY October 2014 to August 2016 • Served as primary administrator for a variety of IT systems including video  surveillance, electronic access control, and public safety systems.  • Responsible for the safeguarding and retention of sensitive video and audio  surveillance data.  • Maintained, monitored, configured, and regularly patched Windows servers (both virtual and bare metal).  • Configured RAID volumes for DAS and local storage.  • Responsible for troubleshooting all relevant server hardware and software issues as needed and participate in an on-call support rotation.  • Planned and executed server and storage hardware and software upgrades on a regular basis.  • Significantly expanded video surveillance storage capacity and reliability.  • Managed DNS and DHCP configuration for all relevant servers and endpoints  including 700+ IP surveillance assets.  • Developed detailed and technical systems documentation for WKU's video  surveillance server infrastructure.  • Managed the life cycle of numerous IP video surveillance projects concurrently;  including coordination with end-users, construction/architecture firms, and structured  cabling installers.  • Configured and assigned server resources on Dell converged infrastructure chassis.  • Managed and configured select VMs as needed in VMware vSphere Client.  • Conducted training sessions for end users in order to enable them to make the best  use of physical security technology.  • Administered various applications requiring advanced knowledge of IIS and MS SQL  Server. Desktop Support Consultant Western Kentucky University - Bowling Green, KY August 2011 to October 2014 • Responsible for maintaining hardware-independent Windows images and associated  OS deployment technologies for faculty and staff PCs.  • Resolved hardware and software issues for 3,000+ employees spread across four  campuses in a highly service-oriented role.  • Managed the installation of network-attached imaging devices (e.g. multi-function  copiers); coordinated with third-party vendors.  • File server, print server, and Active Directory administration.  • Developed Powershell scripts and GPOs to efficiently maintain faculty and staff  computers.  • Deployed software using Symantec ITMS and GPOs  • Conducted training sessions and developed documentation for colleagues regarding new technologies or processes.  • Participated in multiple project teams including a University-wide e-mail migration  from CommunigatePro to Microsoft Exchange.  • Worked with a small team to plan, implement, administer, and provide relevant  training for TeamDynamix PPM and ITSM software. Education Master's in Criminology Western Kentucky University - Bowling Green, KY June 2012 to December 2017 BS in Systems Management Western Kentucky University - Bowling Green, KY August 2007 to May 2011 Skills Active Directory, DHCP/DNS, VMware, Exchange Server, Windows Server, Linux, Group Policy Administration, SAN Administration, Amazon Web Services, Project Management, Networking, Blackboard, File and Print Server Administration, Office365, Backup and Recovery, SAP Business Objects, Ansible, NetApp, Powershell Certifications/Licenses Project+ July 2014 to Present Zerto Certified Professional (ZCP) 2018 to Present Red Hat Certified System Administrator April 2019 to April 2022 Credential URL: https://www.redhat.com/rhtapps/services/certifications/badge/verify/7JWKDI3GSEBBS5AEEK25NZI6KIAEQU3CUPSQX2KSDXT6RW46LQ3T7ULZ55KZZ56SKO7EQ3ETTLYZQ4U5NQYTCNA62RUWOCM34WWBUYQ= Amazon Web Services Solutions Architect Associate February 2019 to February 2022 Credential URL: https://www.certmetrics.com/amazon/public/badge.aspx?i=1&t=c&d=2019-02-11&ci=AWS00777754 Additional Information Skilled at:    VMware vSphere • Red Hat Satellite • Active Directory • Amazon Web Services  (EC2, VPC) • Blackboard Learn LMS • Office 365 • Exchange 2016 • MS SQL  Server • MariaDB • Apache • Tomcat • SMB/NFS File Server • DNS/DHCP •  Nagios • Powershell • Print Server Administration (Windows/CUPS) •  PowerCLI • Bash • Python • RHEL • CentOS • Ubuntu Server • Elasticsearch •  Subversion • Mailman • Veeam • Zerto • DellEMC Unity • NetApp E-Series •  IBM XIV • Barracuda Networks (Load Balancers and Email Security Gateways) •  IIS Configuration • Cisco IOS