LINUX SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR / JR. DEVOPS ENGINEER LINUX <span class="hl">SYSTEM</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> / JR. DEVOPS ENGINEER LINUX SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR / JR. DEVOPS ENGINEER - PURCHASING POWER LLC Smyrna, GA • Customer focused, passionate and articulate Systems Administrator with excellent multitasking and people skill-set.  • Result oriented and focused on measurable deliverables.  • Extended history of productive engagement with corporate customers and vendors.  • Commended for excellent documentation fervor and mentoring skillset.    • OS: Red Hat Enterprise / CentOS Linux 6,7, Windows Server 2012, 2016, Ubuntu Server 2017, 2018.  • Hardware: HP ProLiant servers DL380p, DL380E, DL560 Gen8, DellEMC PowerEdge R930, R840, R940  • Languages: Linux BASH & Python. Work Experience LINUX SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR / JR. DEVOPS ENGINEER PURCHASING POWER LLC - Atlanta, GA July 2018 to Present • Working with developers on Hybris deployment of new features for both Web and Mobile Apps.  • Building and configuration of production and development environments.  • Documentation of processes/activities, knowledge sharing and collaboration on JIRA, Confluence.  • Load balancing and traffic management on the F5 - LTM.  • Management of storage volumes/snapshot/aggregates/LUNs on NetApp.  • Deployment and Resource Management of Virtual Servers / Virtual Hosts on VMWare ESXi.  • Maintenance of patching and upgrades schedule, I work with system and architecture teams to ensure low impact and 100% updated environments ( production and development)  • Monitoring system performance of virtual memory, managing swap space, disk utilization and cpu utilization  • Design and building automated code deployment systems that simplify dev tasks.  • Troubleshooting and resolving system outages or performance impact, and documenting findings for ongoing improvement.  • Installed and maintained linux and other third party software.  • Building and management of automation inside configuration management tools / automation pipelines.  • Building and automated testing / validation for both software and system configuration. LINUX SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR AND AWS CLOUD TECH UNITED AIRLINES - Atlanta, GA 2013 to 2018 • Performed virtual machine deployments.  • Implemented iptable and ACL on Red Hat Linux servers  • Monitoring system performance of virtual memory, managing swap space, disk utilization and cpu utilization  • Installed and configured harshicorp vagrant for resource provisioning and testbed  • installed and maintained linux and third party software  • Maintaining the regular backups using tar, ufsdump, ufsrestore, snapshot backup etc.  • Managing system processes and scheduling processes with the cron utility.  • Checking alert logs, trace files and file system maintenance.  • Day-to-day functional administration tasks, as well as application-specific technical support  • Performed server installation using kickstart, network, and dvd on physical servers  • Managed system processes and scheduling processes with the cron utility  • Installed and configured and optimized media servers to achieve optimal solutions for netbackup media servers  • Installed configured and deployed netbackup media servers to handle varying levels of data traffic and load  • Disk configuration & managing file systems in rhel 6/7 environment using lvm.  • Introduced new servers to the network. Maintaining and troubleshooting network connectivity.    • Intimate use of vi editor to edit files  • Configured varying netbackup policies to address varying SLA requirements  • User management, creating and managing user account, groups and access levels.  • Controlling the system logging services, and examining system log files of all system events.  • Use amazon s3 for storage and point of origin for ec2s and cdns  • Install amazon ec2 instances from ami  • Use amazon virtual private cloud (vpc) as a virtual network environment for aws resources and services  • Elastic load balancing employed to maintain high availability of aws across amazon ec2s across availability zones. Education Bachelor's Skills Aws (5 years), Git (Less than 1 year), Jira (Less than 1 year), Netapp. (Less than 1 year), Vmware (Less than 1 year), System Administrator, Linux, System Admin, Linux Administrator Additional Information • Software / Tools: Hybris - SAP, F5 Load Balancer, Ansible, Amazon AWS, GIT, GITHub, NetApp, Dynatrace, AppDynamics, Zabbix, VMWare, Graylog, Docker, Jenkins, Terraform, JIRA, Confluence.