Assistant Manager Assistant Manager Assistant Manager Katy, TX to obtain a job that will challenge me and allow me to use my education, skills and past experiences in a way that is mutually beneficial to both myself and my employer. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Assistant Manager Timewise - Fulshear, TX December 2016 to August 2017 Prepare store for each businesses day    Ensure store is stalked and items are in proper placement and alignment.    Prepare daily reports.    Check in new items to inventory and communicate with venders.    Ensure all employees are up to date on store procedures and preforming all assigned duties. Insulation Technician Perfection Supply - Houston, TX June 2014 to May 2015 Load truck based on work schedule    Upon arrival at job site, inspect job site, ensure site is safe in accordance with OSHA standards and tools required are present    Preform repairs as needed in order to ensure air tight boundaries    Install insulation to needed R rating  Organize Trucks and inventory tools    Coordinate with supervisor to ensure all technicians have need tools and consumables Computer Systems Administrator Spirit Clips LLC - Los Angeles, CA January 2014 to May 2014 Computer Systems Administrator January 2014 to May 2014 Write computer code to create automated functions    Create multiple access point network    Monitor status of multiple servers.    Create and streamline multiple server connections Work Center Supervisor for following systems USS Millius DDG January 2012 to September 2013 Tomahawk 1136  • GCCS 0340  • Harpoon 1169    Create weekly maintenance schedule    Ensure maintenance men have all tools, parts and materials  needed for all maintenance    Train maintenance men    Coordinate training drills    Order parts and consumables    Coordinate weekly schedule with divisional officer.    Ensure all systems maintain 100% functionality Firecontrolman US Navy - USS Mustin DDG January 2009 to December 2011 • Navy Firecontrolman  ? Maintenance man for following systems:  • Tomahawk Cruise Missile 1136(Navy Enlisted Classification)  • Global Command and Control System - Maritime 0340  • Naval Fires Control System 1152    Check weekly maintenance schedule    Read Maintenance Requirement Card  Collect tools, parts and materials for MRC    Check maintenance availability against ship's schedule (if needed)    Preform all steps on MRC    Report/sign off maintenance checks as completed Audio/Visual engineering technician Kingsland Baptists Church - Katy, TX 2005 to 2007 Set up all audio and visual equipment for large scheduled church events and regular Sunday morning service(s)    Worked with Sound Technicians for testing of sound and microphones.    Performed system troubleshooting, repair and adjustment.    Set up lighting shows with multiple projectors and video screens.    Worked with bands to achieve desired results. Education Navy Basic Training Calvin Nelms High School Navy Firecontrolman A school Navy Tactical Tomahawk Weapon Controls System C school Navy Naval Fires Control System C school Navy Harpoon Weapon System C school Management Maritime C school leadership Work Center Supervisor Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E-5