Business Systems Administrator Business <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Information Systems Administrator - Harnish Group Seattle, WA Work Experience Business Systems Administrator Harnish Group - Tukwila, WA October 2016 to Present Support, challenge resolution, application support for all rental and sales systems. Ongoing maintenance of programs which includes communicating software enhancements to end users, coordinating/conducting training, and vendor communications. Researching, troubleshooting, resolving system issues. Training users for system releases. Ensure common practices across all business units are documented and disseminated to support staff and end users. Administration and testing new system releases. Created and continuous maintenance of documentation for all rental, sales, DBS, and general departmental programs. Lead roll out of new projects including CAT Rental Store, IR Mobile app, and SalesLink Touch. Served as Chair of the Safety Committee - establishing meeting agendas, conducting semimonthly meetings, follow up with tasks and assignments, ensuring regular facilities evaluations are conducted. Business Analyst Boeing Company/Search Pro Staffing - Renton, WA July 2015 to August 2016 Collect and assemble data from multiple sources. Conduct research and evaluation of organizational issues. Support leadership in the strategic and tactical intent and directional focus of large facilitated meetings and events. Write, edit, summarize, and review documentation and develop informational and technical materials. Gather customer requirements for projects. Develop and maintain project schedule, monitor and track execution of plans. Work with the team to plan and execute employee-related initiatives. Technical and editorial lead in communications committee. Create and maintain project status reports.  • Co-lead initiative to re-evaluate governance board charter, mission, purpose, and direction  • Lead re-writing charter and governing guidelines team  • Managed all logistics, scheduling, documenting, and follow up for board directed projects, initiatives, and ongoing responsibilities Business Analyst October 2014 to May 2015 Establish training schedules/rosters, instructor calendars, monthly reports, for new hire and transfer employees. Maintain training schedules for mechanical new hires, rosters, industrial athlete, on boarding, and reporting to shop. Work with team to evaluate, document, and streamline complete process for identifying training needs, registering trainees. Develop and deliver presentations. Centrally involved with 5S planning, organizing, and phase progression. Identify and implement new customer requirements and verify system functionality, quality, and accuracy. Document, implement, and evaluate document control procedures and guidelines for optimal implementation.  • Working with team to evaluate, document, and streamline complete process for identifying training needs, establishing curricula, registering trainees, and executing training.  • Fully documented job functions of the scheduler position as performed in training team.  • Research, draft, write, review and edit original content for variety of communication media electronic, BERT reports, and SharePoint boards. Regulatory Documentation/Accounts Payable Administrator Crowley Maritime - Seattle, WA April 2012 to December 2013 Managed purchase order processing, documentation management, expense reconciliation, and calendar management working directly with the accounts payable addressing issues with invoices and vendor accounts. Provided expense tracking and reports for key internal customers for contract work and large maintenance projects. Worked with federal, state, and city government regulatory agencies in managing surveys, certificate, and related financial issues.  • Facilitated communication among Engineering, Accounting, and Accounts Payable to understand, document, streamline, and resolve process flow issues  • Created monthly aging report to show actual to forecasted spending for accounting  • System Administrator for SharePoint site - managing all regulatory surveys and certificates; adding/adjusting user accounts, creating and updating libraries, managing accounts, and updating user interface based on end user feedback  • Fully documented job functions of both the financial and documentation tasks of the position.  • Automated and put on-line functions that had previously been performed manually. Saving the company approximately $20,000 in outside consulting fees Business Administrator Microsoft Corporation/Act 1 - Redmond, WA April 2011 to April 2012 Worked with a staff of a direct, managers, and individual contributors; provided calendar management, administer budget business expense reconciliation. Manage procurement of goods and services including computer equipment, and office supplies.  • System Administrator for SharePoint site - managing user accounts, creating and updating libraries, managing accounts, and updating user interface  • Event planning for manager meeting, morale events, team meetings, and executive briefings  • Manage space planning and maintenance for 150 offices including move 30 offices to a new location tracking and expense reconciliation, coordinate travel all aspects of travel arrangements Business Administrator Starbucks Coffee Company/Volt - Seattle, WA December 2010 to April 2011 Worked with a staff of a vice president, directors, managers, and individual contributors; provided calendar management, administer budget tracking and expense reconciliation, coordinate travel all aspects of travel arrangements, process business expense reconciliation. Manage procurement of goods and services including computer equipment, and office supplies.  • Established new accounts, setup computer equipment, and established electronic and filing systems for new executive  • Research issues and gathering information including budget, moves, and procuring resources  • Special project coordinating, communicating, and executing space and facilities moves over 200 participants. Program Coordinator Microsoft Corporation/Act 1 - Redmond, WA November 2009 to November 2010 Provided administrative and reporting support to several senior project managers. Scheduled meetings, maintaining documentation, and writing correspondence for internal and external communications.  • System Administrator for SharePoint site - adding/adjusting user accounts, updating libraries, managing email accounts, and user interface  • Budget data tracking, manage legal documents archiving Education BA in Organizational Psychology in Regions The Evergreen State College June 2005 Skills System Admin, System Administrator