Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer/ Administrator Brandon, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Engineer Scytl - Tampa, FL December 2018 to July 2019 Planned and physically moved small office network, ensuring minimal downtime as we brought the network and servers back up  ? Created and executed a plan to move overprovisioned AWS EC2 and RDS instances into a right-sized model to reduce overall cost and lower AWS expense  ? Tier I, II, III support for business needs of small office with large AWS production infrastructure  ? Some experience with Fortigate Firewall and Cisco ASA Devices  ? Managed a small XO Hosted PBX Solution for VOIP Cloud Services Administrator Bisk Education, Inc. - Tampa, FL September 2016 to November 2018 Created, secured, monitored, and developed day-to-day business practices for multiple AWS accounts  ? Migration of websites from Umbraco 6.0/7.0 CMS to Heroku and AWS Elastic Beanstalk  ? Creation, security, and monitoring for CloudFront CDNs supporting marketing and ecommerce sites in Heroku and AWS  ? Worked with Agile methodologies to assist in cross functional teams to deliver resources needed for company initiatives  ? Incorporation of CloudFront CDN into a media warehouse to provide improved storage reliability and delivery of content for a learning management system  ? Implementation of Organizational Change Control using Manage Engine Service Desk Plus  ? Providing administration, maintenance, and day-to-day business needs for Manage Engine Service Desk Plus. Ensured requests and issues raised by the business were taken care of in an effective and efficient manner including escalations to the appropriate engineer or vendor support team  ? Construction of a process to create a System Map of infrastructure using Service Desk Plus Asset Agent and CMDB  ? Creation of single sign-on for AWS, Slack, Chrome River, Canvas, and Salesforce through ADFS and Aflex Scripts on Palo Alto A10 Application Content Delivery Controller  ? Formation of single sign-on for homegrown applications specific to Bisk using Azure AD Connect and Business to Business users to provide access to employees and vendors Jr. Systems Administrator Bisk Education, Inc. - Tampa, FL April 2015 to September 2016 Responsible for the Maintenance, monitoring, and verification of Backup Infrastructure utilizing Symantec Backup Exec 11 with Overland Tape Libraries for daily backup. Coordinated with vendor Iron Mountain to ensure pick-up and delivery of Tapes for long term storage and restores.  ? Maintained, supported, and upgraded Digital Rights Management solution for PDFs, books, and other course content related material using Vitirum  ? Deployment and maintenance of website infrastructure within IIS 6.0 to 8.5 for multiple domains and subdomains as well as troubleshooting server side and some coding related issues  ? Creation of Group Policies for Security to lock down Desktops and Laptops  ? Implemented Manage Engine Active Directory Self Service Portal to assist users in unlocking their own account, password expiration reminders, and resets of passwords in case of expiration Help Desk Technician Bisk Education, Inc. - Tampa, FL December 2012 to April 2015 Managed day-to-day operation and configuration of Service Desk ticketing system  ? Provided Tier 1 and Tier 2 Help Desk support to employees for Desktop support with Microsoft Office, Talisma CRM, Bria/asterisk phone issues, VPN connectivity issues, or 3rd party back office software.  ? Managed deployment of Windows 7 to entire company before Windows XP was no longer supported by Microsoft.  ? Implementation of Manage Engine Service Desk Plus to provide a more cohesive Service Desk ticketing system for ease of use by employees.  ? Creation, modification, and deletion of Users, Groups, and Distributions with Active Directory  ? Creation and mapping of File shares to drive letters or networked shares based on the specific request  ? Creation, maintenance, and deployment of Windows Ghost Images for the various Desktop and Laptops needs of different departments on Windows XP and Windows 7 Education None in Computer Science Hillsborough Community College - Brandon, FL 2015 Business University of South Florida Skills Deployment, Web services, Amazon web services, Maintenance, System Administrator, AWS, Active Directory, DNS, System Admin Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified SysOps Administrator - Associate November 2018 to November 2020 VQJ35W51KER41TCD AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associate January 2018 to January 2020 MESXBXC1BBR4QK5N