DEVOPS/ENGINEER DEVOPS/ENGINEER DEVOPS/ENGINEER - Northrop Grumman Crofton, MD Work Experience DEVOPS/ENGINEER Northrop Grumman - Baltimore, MD February 2017 to Present • Migrated WebSphere applications from Unix to Linux  • Installed configured and managed Atlassian tools (JIRA, Bit BUCKET, ROCKET CHAT and CONFLUENCE)  • Supported Kafka messaging systems  • Installed and deployed Tomcat in a clustered environment  • Installed and Managed Docker and Jenkins for developers  • Currently working with Redhat 6 and 7 Including satellite  • Currently working with Ansible  • Supported open stack systems  • Working and coordinating with application Stakeholders to meet their needs and requirements  • Writing documentation articles and committing it in our central repository  • Logging and tracking Daily task using JIRA  • Coordinating with developers to ensure that goals and objective set are met  • Spin-up instances , created security groups, IAM roles, Volumes AMIs, etc on AWS SYSTEM ENGINEER/DEVOPS NATIONAL INSTITUE OF HEALTH - Bethesda, MD January 2016 to February 2017 • Strong Linux Administration background  • Strong VMWARE Knowledge  • Experience with automation/configuration management tools puppet and chef  • Ability to use wide variety of open source technologies  • Involved in the software development life cycle of an application / project  • Experience with CMS tool Drupal  • Experience with OPENVPN  • Experience with Central Authentication system CAS  • Knowledge of best practices and IT operations in an always available service  • Installed and managed Redhat Satellite Server  • Coordinated and performed builds and deployments using ( Maven Script)  • Installed configured and managed Tomcat and Apache  • Installed and configured Virtuoso  • Worked with Jira dashboard to track and monitor workflow  • Worked with confluence for knowledge Article  • Managed HP Application Life Management (ALM)  • Worked with Versioning control ( Tortoise SVN and GitHub )  • Working knowledge of Postgres and oracle database Lead Systems Analyst/Engineer OXFORD FINANCE - Alexandria, VA April 2014 to January 2016 • Primary contact for all troubleshooting issues of over 100 Red Hat Linux servers.  • Provided implementation and configuration support, monitored, upgraded and maintained PLM enterprise applications and involved in SDLC design  • Supported multiple customer instances; i.e. development, test, and production.  • PTC Integrity Application Life Cycle Management (ALM) environment monitoring and maintenance.  • Utilized Oracle, MS SQL and MySQL databases and Apache and IIS web servers.  • Created SQL scripts that dumped *.csv files of staging tables extracted from the source database.  • Install, configured and managed apache, MySQL, splunk, JBOSS, and Ansible  • Build and maintain all Red Hat Apache web servers including creation and correct deployment of SSL certificates.  • Maintain Red Hat VPN servers for our clients.  • Logical and physical database and application design for OLTP and data warehouse applications  • Design and development of OLAP data marts using Microsoft Analytical Services.  • Provided day-to-day production application support within the global Centralized Application Production Support Team (CAPS)  • Responding to service tickets and monitoring transaction flows and identifying bugs relating to the system and providing solutions or submitting services requests to related teams.  • Setting up automated job and AutoSys using Unix/Linux Shell Scripting  • Involved in Reviews, Production defect fix and test support for production application  • Involved in Scoping, planning, architecture and design of in house production application.  • Full Software Development Life Cycle experience with expertise in the areas of Analysis, Design, Development, implementation, testing and maintenance of software and Involved in all phases of testing, which includes Unit Testing, Batch Testing, Systems and Integration Testing,  • Created related documentation, standards and procedures to comply with corporation and industry standards  • Work closely with the network engineers to ensure installation of all network equipment and configuration worked as designed.  • Maintain and tune JBOSS server clusters.  • Work with other IT departments to understand all business functions and build customize Linux servers to meet the needs of the company and our customers.  • Manage and maintain HP and IBM blade servers and Red Hat HA cluster for the VoIP servers.  • Manage and maintain multiple networks/VLAN's and ensure that the appropriate server is configured and placed in the correct VLAN based on the network zone the system is being built for  • Work closely with developers and database administrators to deploy the correct type of server needed for their projects along with the correct packages.  • Work with MySQL DBA for automating MySQL startup & shutdown processes.  • Configured & installed Apache Web server for web focus application.  • Installation, configuration & maintenance of DB2 on Centos OS and troubleshooting of MySQL database.  • Scripting for automations of tasks like backup, application startup & shutdown etc.  • Timely troubleshooting, resolution of customer tickets  • Perform daily System monitoring, maintenance, and upkeep. Provide technical solution design, implementation, and upgrades.  • Mentor and assist junior members of the Linux Server staff.  • Technical lead on multiple projects involving RHEL or Solaris servers, including updates of existing technologies or deployment of new technologies.  • Interact with application administrators to deploy and configure Apache, Tomcat, Weblogic and other Oracle applications on Red Hat and Oracle Linux, including updating and customizing multiple Java environments. Sr. System Administrator USA TODAY - McLean, VA August 2012 to April 2014 • BEA WebLogic Server Configuration  • Available as Level 2-3 on-call support and point of contact for supporting satellite operations.  • Responsible for performing various system administration support functions on Linux servers/workstations and Windows PCs.  • Maintained and documented disaster recovery SOP  • Responsible for monitoring status of operational hardware/software through Linux-Open View and other custom shell-scripts and implementing remedial actions.  • Responsible for updating operational procedures for use by support personnel.  • Responsible for updating software at Control Center Backup facility, performing integrity checks, and coordinating activation of facility for testing on a regular basis.  • Perform ongoing maintenance and installation of patches and packages.  • Experienced with UNIX Production Support and application support, Level 3 SME  • Licentiate and coordinate functional requirements between business users, development team, DBA, internal stakeholders and vendors.  • Worked as an application lead for four major telecom applications and interfacing with forty other applications that deal with financial transactions and day to day business applications.  • Worked with auditing teams to implement the compliance requirements for FCC (Federal Communications Commission)  • Identify and making sure that the IT security of application functionality is compliance with FCC (Federal Communications Commission).  • Install patches required by the user team (Business team) if any functionality issues occur with the application.  • Establish standards, policies and procedures for all aspects of UNIX based applications on day-to-day issues and activities for multiple applications.  • Gather necessary requirements from business and end users and notify development teams.  • Install the application release on the application for every three months (quarterly release) and patches if required by the business and end users.  • Worked on requirements gathering for Business continuity and Disaster Recovery Planning on building and installing the DR servers.  • Licentiate between business teams, end users and gather requirements for application releases, up-grades.  • Worked with Internal auditing teams to implement the compliance changes  • Involved in reviews meetings with Business, End clients, Vendors and gather the requirements for the next application Release.  • Worked on installing the application full releases and required application patches as per the business requirement.  • Experience on configuring WebLogic, I-planet, JBoss, apache, WebSphere, SSL certificate and configuring FTP server and DNS servers Installation and Troubleshooting the problems related to these web applications  • Working with H/W vendors to fix all H/W issues and replacements (Vendor Call Management).  • Installation of SSH and configuration of keys bases secure authentication.  • Setup, maintain and manage user accounts and groups according to the security compliance needs.  • Experience on Oracle and Java based Applications, SQL, Load Balancer and Proficient in shell and PERL scripting  • Experience in Security Hardening in UNIX, Linux and Windows servers.  • Implemented policies, procedures, and technologies that ensured Linux system security through secure system access, monitoring, control, and routine security evaluations.  • Expertise on implementing and writing Load Balancer rules and Single Sign-On concepts.  • Installation and configuration of Veritas Volume Manager, Veritas File System and Veritas NetBackup  • Created User, Groups per client requirement.  • Designed and deployed a distributed monitoring environment using NagiosXI  • Designed LDAP Authentication system for NOAA's Linux servers  • Automated several tasks with bash scripts  • Designed a Virtualization Network using Linux KVM and VMWare  • Rebuilt Redhat system after catastrophic failures and performed site failovers and corrected documentation  • Team trainer for new hires Provide tools and procedures for resources provisioning. Created Vlan and moved VMs between VLAN.  • Perform maintenance activities in a large environment composed of a mix of different UNIX/Linux, platforms and configurations. Trouble-shoot hardware, software and network related problems.  • Monitor performance and system utilization and participate in activities related to growth analysis and capacity planning  • Ensure customer uptime and performance through monitoring, proactive support, maintenance, and utilization of best practices  • Installed puppet in master and agent node. Deploying configuration files and templates for lightning-fast installation. Automating every aspect of the systems including provisioning, deployment and change management  • Installing the MySQL Assisted DBA in configuring MySQL Database. Linux System Administrator EVOLENT HEALTH - Arlington, VA November 2010 to August 2012 • Dynamically adding new VMware disk into the kernel and LVM  • Disk Configuration on Oracle Linux Servers  • Created User, Groups, file systems per client requirement.  • Created SUDO Policies for the different applications  • Performed data migration via Veritas from Server to SAN.  • Diagnosis network issues and evaluate if it's hardware or switching devices.  • Updated Firmware and OS patches on outdated servers inside maintenance window.  • VMware ESX 5 Server installs, Client configuration(Windows and Solaris), maintenance, and patching.  • VSphere Administration, for ESX server and client servers.  • Monitored ticket system, and worked on reported issues to resolve tickets.  • Opened Change Control tickets to perform maintenance and server patching and upgrades.  • Operated with in Change Control time limits to coordinate project SLA's.  • Administrated AD servers to add, change, or remove users, groups and passwords.  • Managed Change control ticket for EOL Servers for retirement and data destruction.  • Installed Java, JBoss, J2EE, WebLogic, WebSphere.  • Configuration and Administration of DNS, NIS, NIS+, NFS, sendmail.  • Installation, configuration and remediation of various Security software.  • Wrote Shell scripts for system maintenance and file management and wrote Perl Scripting for automation of job.  • Configuration of Hardware and Software RAID. Disk replacement and File system recovery.  • Configure a JumpStart including implementing a Jump Start server, editing the sysidcfg, rules and profile fi les, and establishing Jump Start software alternatives  • Trouble shooting of day to day system and user problems including resolving issue tickets and documentation of the issues and their fixes  • Support hotline call, Global on-call and 24X7 pager duties Education Masters in Cyber Security University of Maryland University College Present Skills Devops, Linux, Jenkins, AWS, Linux Administrator, Rhel, Redhat, Kernel, Ansible, Vmware, Bash, Red Hat, Hadoop, Puppet Certifications/Licenses TS/SCI clearance