IT Manager/ Systems Administrator IT Manager/<span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Operations Controller Salt Lake City, UT JRSS Network Operations Controller for the Department of Defense. With Interim Top Secret Clearance.    A joint regional security stack (JRSS) is a suite of equipment that performs firewall functions, intrusion detection and prevention, enterprise management, virtual routing and forwarding (VRF), and provides a host of network security capabilities. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Manager/ Systems Administrator Salt Lake Mattress & Manufacturing Co. (Serta Mattress) - Salt Lake City, UT March 2019 to Present IT Manager overseeing all operations within manufacturing plant.    • Systems support  • Budget  • OHM ERP Bedding Software  • WAN/LAN  • Infrastructure Upgrades Network Operations Controller APEX Systems - Salt Lake City, UT November 2018 to March 2019 JRSS Network Operations Controller for the Department of Defense. With Interim Top Secret Clearance.    A joint regional security stack (JRSS) is a suite of equipment that performs firewall functions, intrusion detection and prevention, enterprise management, virtual routing and forwarding (VRF), and provides a host of network security capabilities. Network & Systems Administrator United States Air Force (Active Duty) - Andrews AFB, MD June 2016 to November 2018 • Planned and executed 40 bare metal and 8 virtual server moves to new hospital as part of a data center relocation on Joint Base Andrews, MD.  • Designed, installed, and led Ubiquiti wireless local area network implementation for hospital surgery suite allowing better communication concerning patient care orders.  • Wrote PowerShell script that scanned network file share to identify potential HIPAA and PII security violations. Recommended remediation actions to senior leadership.  • Identified the root cause of widespread wireless network outage and restored access point (AP) connectivity to Aruba wireless controller by eliminating layer 2 loop.  • Established procedure and led the deployment of new Cisco voice over internet protocol (VOIP) phones.  • Developed networking and systems administration standard operating procedures based upon security technical implementation guides, Air Force security standards, and HIPAA requirements.  • Deployed 190 Hewlett-Packard and Xerox multi-function printers. Ensured each device was configured to meet DOD STIG’s to include encrypted email communication, and network scanning capabilities.  • Network team lead for implementation of new medical Defense Health Agency network on Joint Base Andrews, MD. This includes assisting in migration of existing network traffic and services.  • Designed network file share based on business requirements while increasing the confidentiality and integrity of data.  • Maintained local area network consisting of 100 layer 2&3 Cisco switches and routers. Responsible for configuration of VOIP and data VLAN’s, SVI’s, and port security.  • Sustained continuous operation of over 70 servers and networked medical devices by patching vulnerabilities, troubleshooting outages, and implementing operational best practices to ensure compliance with DOD and HIPAA regulations.  • Administrator for virtual environment using VMware ESXi hypervisor consisting of 2 hosts and 5 servers. Familiar with VMware vCenter Server and vSphere management.  • Managed user role-based access permissions for Microsoft Windows domain through active directory for over 1,400 personnel. Information Assurance Officer/Cyber Security Liaison United States Air Force (Active Duty) - Elmendorf AFB, AK March 2013 to June 2016 • Renovated Information Assurance program for organization consisting of 1,500 personnel. This included resolving over 100 information security violations, writing access control policy, and briefing personnel concerning cyber security.  • Created process to patch over 25,000 server and workstation vulnerabilities using PowerShell. Patching assisted with passing command cyber readiness inspection (CCRI).  • Exercised cyber security incident response plans for social engineering attempts and violations of information security policy.  • Led 5 Air Force Non-classified Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRnet) security violation investigations due to user negligence of policy and potential introduction of malware to network. Education BS in Software Development Western Governors University - Salt Lake City, UT August 2018 to August 2020 Health Services Management Tech School - Fort Sam Houston, TX February 2013 to April 2013 Skills NOC, Cisco, CCNA (3 years), Healthcare IT, Windows Server, Linux, Networking, Technical Support, Active Directory, Vmware, Information Assurance, Firewalls, Customer Service Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/gabrielpatkinson https://thenetsysadmin.com https://www.udemy.com/basic-ubiquiti-unifi-network-setup/ Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: SrA December 2012 to December 2018 Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching March 2017 to March 2020 CCNA Security March 2017 to March 2020 CompTIA Security+ February 2014 to February 2020 CompTIA A+ CompTIA Healthcare IT Technician Present CIW Web Foundations Associate Projected Publications The 7 Best Networking Certification Training Websites https://thenetsysadmin.com/the-7-best-networking-certification-training-websites/ Top 6 Reasons to use Standard Operating Procedures in Information Technology https://thenetsysadmin.com/top-6-reasons-to-use-standard-operating-procedures-in-information-technology Additional Information Network and systems administrator with Interim TS/SCI Clearance, skilled in maintaining high availability LAN/WAN/WLAN networks. Experienced in troubleshooting network outages, installing and maintaining servers, and implementing security best practices. Proven problem-solving abilities with attention to detail. Distinct experience managing critical medical information systems and infrastructure.    ~Technical Knowledge~    Hardware:   Cisco Catalyst 3750/3850/3950/4500/6500 series switches.    Software:     Cisco IOS, Linux (Debian, Ubuntu, Red Hat, CentOS), Windows Server 2003/2008/2012/2016, VMware vCenter, Wireshark, BMC Remedy Incident Management, Windows XP/7/8/10, Office 2016/365, Microsoft Visio, PowerShell, Cisco Unified Connection Manager (CUCM), Cisco Unity Connection (CUC).    Protocols:   Transport Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP), User Datagram Protocol (UDP), Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP), Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP), Cisco Discovery Protocol (CDP), Spanning Tree Protocol (STP), ARP, Internet Protocol Version 4 (IPv4), Routing Information Protocol (RIP), OSPF, Enhanced Interior Gateway Routing Protocol (EIGRP), Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP), Secure Shell (SSH), HL7, DNS, DHCP.    ~Additional Information~    Personal blog & podcast - centered on the profession of network and systems administration. The Net Sys Admin: https://thenetsysadmin.com    Udemy Instructor - teacher for over 3,000 students worldwide who seek to learn how to set up basic networks using Ubiquiti Networks equipment.  https://www.udemy.com/basic-ubiquiti-unifi-network-setup/