LOGISTICIAN I LOGISTICIAN I Newport, NC • To gain an Information Technology position using skills in troubleshooting, development, asset management, repair, upkeep, and network/database administration. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience LOGISTICIAN I LTM Inc - Havelock, NC March 2018 to Present • Develop web-based application for CHIT Management for a single client.  • Work with team to develop/upkeep web-based application for multiple logistics forms used by various clients.  • Create and upkeep documentation concerning various applications.  • Use Adobe Dreamweaver as IDE.  • Offer implementation of GIT into development cycle for version control.  • Create tables, views, stored procedures, and triggers in Microsoft SQL Server.  • Assist with user management for development, production, and database servers.  • Find and help implement solution for converting Office file types to PDF in ColdFusion.  • Find and implement solution for CAC/PKI certificate enabling client applications.  • Introduced coding standards focused on secure coding for ColdFusion Applications.  • Set up data sources within the ColdFusion administration application.  • Assist with various IT issues when needed. INFORMATION SYSTEMS ANALYST JOHNAN AMERICA, INC September 2017 to February 2018 • Provide end user support as necessary.  • Administer Cisco ASA 5508 firewall by adding/removing access-list rules and other items as necessary for increased security.  • Create and administer VPN via Cisco ASA 5508 firewall.  • Manage Base2 systems for shipping, EDI sending/receiving, and label printing.  • Ensure label printing continuity for manufacturing by resolving automation and handling issues with software and printers.  • Increase security by implementing new password policies.  • Administer Active Directory, SQL Server, and other systems to ensure limited downtime.  • Research ideas for offsite backups, and present to management for implementation.  • Write several scripts to automate different tasks using powershell and batch.  • Write Excel VBA macros for accounting.  • Coordinate and conduct disaster recovery due to Ransomware attack.  • Rebuild servers and reimage all user machines in order to ensure clean base for new network. IT ADMINISTRATOR MAGNUS HEALTH, LLC August 2015 to September 2017 • Deal with day to day IT needs for the company including virus removal, software installation, printer upkeep, and setting computers for new employees or those employees receiving new computers.  • Find specifications for new computers to replace old computers used throughout the company, and then distribute those computers.  • Interact with Active Directory to add and remove users and computers on the network.  • Write Powershell scripts to add users to Active Directory and to check which computers on the network are up to date.  • Write Bash scripts for server functions such as deploying web applications, backing up files, and monitoring.  • Write miscellaneous Batch, Powershell, Bash, and Make scripts for automation purposes.  • Use Docker to containerize items such as monitoring systems, inventory, and various other items so that they can be more easily transferred in the event of a server failure.  • Use Puppet to be able to bring servers up faster by having templates for different servers such as test servers, development servers, and production servers.  • Maintain an inventory database of all computer equipment for the company both local and remote, to include which users currently use which equipment, using MySQL for the backend and PHP for a user friendly front end.  • Provide remote support for users that are not local to the main office, or that are working from home.  • Maintain Cisco ASA firewall, for both VPN access and various applications' access.  • Deploy an enterprise version of Symantec Endpoint protection to all Magnus computers and ensure that computers' virus protection remains up to date.  • Assist the Records team with ensuring that client faxes are received and processed properly.  • Assist the development team with their work when needed due to high demands of new features and/or bugs for the Magnus Health application using Java, javascript, HTML, CSS, JSP, and JSF.  • Assist the Sys-admin with moving the application from local hardware to Amazon AWS. ADVANCED REPAIR AGENT GEEK SQUAD October 2011 to May 2015 • Help keep clients secure by running in-depth software scans, and performing software fixes as necessary.  • Perform computer maintenance such as hardware replacement, reimaging, updating, and general tune ups.  • Keep communication with clients so they have a constant status of repair progress.  • Assist front of shop employees with client needs.  • Offer phone support for technical issues. Education BACHELOR'S OF SCIENCE in Computer Science UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA WILMINGTON - Wilmington, NC May 2015 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ Present CompTIA Security+ CE May 2017 to May 2020