Systems/Network Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span>/Network <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems/Network Administrator - Juniper Networks San Mateo, CA Work Experience Systems/Network Administrator Juniper Networks October 2013 to Present • Maintenance of network and system infrastructure.  • Provide technical support and resolution for Juniper hardware, software, and network issues, hands on experience with Cisco/IOS.  • Problem Identifier and resolution of networks at Layer 1,2, 3 and 4.  • Installed and configured various services like DNS, DHCP, NFS and SSH, managed and installed patches and software packages using YUM, APT-GET, and RPM.  • Storage setups, RAID, Logical Volume Manager, storage configurations for VM, NFS, ISCSI and Fiber Channel.  • Creation of VMs, cloning and migrations of the VMs on VMware vSphere 6 and 6.5.  • Deployed several VMs from Templates and customized their configurations as needed.  • Building VM's and new Templates for new Projects and allocating them to appropriate Resource pools.  • Created clones from existing VMs (both live and powered-off).  • Esxi installation configuration, vSwitch/Distributed Switch and port group configuration, adding configuring storage both local and network.  • Monitoring system logs for important messages such as errors and warnings hardware for failures.  • Installed, configured and diagnosed and resolved hardware and OS problems with Dell, HP, Lenovo, Intel, Quanta, Super Micro, IX systems servers and other networking equipment.  • Monitored data centers using Solar winds.  • Responsible for keeping records of all devices and infrastructure in data centers up to date and relevant, including fiber cable mappings.  • Un-rack decommissioned Routers, switches and servers and rack new ones.  • Running patch using Twisted and fiber cables (1GB, 10GB, 40GB and 100GB)  • Responded to server down alerts in a timely manner and brought them up via HP ILO/ Dell DRAC/IPMI Supermicro/Ix systems.    • Strict attention to detail regarding physical device requirements, serial numbers, locations, labels, and connections.  • Resolved tickets using JIRA ticketing systems.    • Documented procedures and helped develop guides to aid in the troubleshooting of software and hardware systems and configurations.  • Worked as a member of both the projects as well as the steady state operations teams. System Administrator Cisco Systems August 2013 to October 2013 • Installations of devices in racks, running Ethernet patch cables, running fiber patch cables, connecting console monitor to systems for remote-hands recovery.  • Works as part of distributed team, coordinating by phone, email, IM, web conference with members in other geographical areas,  • Installation, configuration of Cisco switches and rack servers.  • Worked with vendors in a Data Center for system repairs SUN, IBM and EMC. Computer Technician University of San Francisco January 2013 to October 2013 • Imaging and prepping both Windows and Apple computers.  • Provided technical support in the hardware deployment and managed tasks to handle troubleshooting.  • Setup of Network printers and Networks using both Static and DHCP.  • Installation of new and old programs on new computers.  • Migration of data/data recovery from the old workstations to newly installed system.  • Assisted clients in solving computer-related issues and ensured quality customer service.  • Maintained working knowledge of products and/ or services.  • Used Service now ticketing system to track new requests of deployments and computer issues from customers.  • Used Cisco NAC to configure PDA and Mobile devices.  • Conducted troubleshooting of software and hardware programs and assigned tasks to the team.  • Provided help desk support via telephone and communications with end-users.  • Performed diagnostics and troubleshooting of system issues, documented help desk tickets/resolutions, and maintained equipment inventory lists.  • Coordinated work with the IT team and other departments to ensure an efficient and effective support process.  • Managed and maintained clients supports throughout the enterprise and ensured proper coordination.  • Assisted in the development of procedures to ensure that the team is providing the best possible service to the customers.  • Setting up new computer labs.  • Performed other duties as assigned by supervisor. Junior Network Administrator ATS Computers October 2011 to February 2012 • Windows server installations.  • Configured routers and switches.  • Installed various PC components including hard drives, memory chips, CD ROMS, power supplies, motherboards, network cards, sound cards, video cards and software CDs.  • LAN and WAN  • Created dual boot systems.  • Created Active Directory including creation of new user accounts and assigning user rights.  • Skilled at handling all computer and networking hardware Education A.S. degree Applied Science in Computer Information Technology Heald College - Hayward, CA A.S. degree Applied Science in Networking Technology Heald College - Hayward, CA Skills Bgp, Ipv6, Mpls, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vmware, Fiber channel, Nas, Iscsi, Red hat, Technical support, Hsrp, Ipsec, Vrrp, Jira, Ftp, Linux, Python, Scripting, Snmp, Windows, Networking, Customer Service, Active Directory Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/harjit-singh-1a906689