IT Systems Engineer, NSA Media IT <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer, NSA Media Brookfield, IL Work Experience IT Systems Engineer, NSA Media January 2018 to Present Systems Engineer responsible for the complete reworking of the IT infrastructure after the spinoff of NSA Media from its parent company. Worked on the consolidation of the datacenter from 10 racks to 4, which required moving and reconfiguring all IT server and network assets, dramatically diminishing the IT footprint. Rebuilt the entire vSphere infrastructure from the bare metal and oversaw the upgrade to vSphere 6.7. Responsible for configuration, management, and maintenance of hardware assets including HP BL460 Gen8/9 servers, NetApp SAN, Brocade switches, and Meraki networking gear. Oversaw the migration of all Windows Servers to Server 2016 and recently began testing Server 2019. Responsible for creating vSphere templates and policies to allow for rapid deployment of servers and monitoring of the same. Other major projects included setting up a DR environment in AWS, rolling out InTune for MDM, and working on the Security and Policies and Procedures documents. IT Systems Engineer PSAV January 2015 to December 2017 Sole systems engineer for a $100 million vertical within PSAV. Responsible for design, implementation, and maintenance of network monitoring and reporting infrastructure for over 200 remote sites with over 10,000 nodes. Served as the project manager for the development of proprietary software for access control and bandwidth allocation. Responsible for the maintenance and inventory control of all equipment/licensing. Partnered with the Director and VP within the department in the budgetary process for the upkeep and rollout of new and existing products/services as well as serving as the point of contact for all vendors. Facilitated communication/partnership with peers in IT departments for the other verticals to ensure all technical activities were coordinated. IT Specialist, AIS January 2014 to January 2015 IT Specialist focusing on municipal and small/mid-sized business infrastructure across a variety of industries. Responsible for the evaluation, deployment, and maintenance of infrastructure for clients. Daily tasks included working with Cisco, Meraki, and Sonicwall networking equipment, administration of Active Directory environments from Windows Server 2003 to 2012, and a variety of Exchange environments both on premise and Office 365. Working for a company that functioned as the IT department for our clients meant tackling new issues daily while simultaneously being proactive in designing and presenting new solutions that both met their needs and worked within budgetary constraints.    Office 365 Deployment, Heritage Crystal Clean, Contract August 2013 - January 2014  Responsible for all phases of Office 365 rollout from vendor selection, network and computer compliance issues, implementation and migration, and rollout of Office 2013 suite for 1000 end users and more than 1500 devices. Technical challenges overcome included revamping the MDM server configuration to allow a seamless transition as well as dealing with a lack of infrastructure for centralized updating of necessary systems. IT Support Analyst Office Max February 2013 to August 2013 Routine tasks included level 2/3 remote and desk side support for end users and systems; computer imaging, deployment and asset management; and management of Active Directory groups and objects. Special projects included the creation of bootable media and distribution to 900+ retails stores for a self-service kiosk upgrade initiative. Microsoft Office 365 Migration Specialist Complex Care Solutions June 2013 to July 2013 Worked directly with the project manager and senior technicians to create a blueprint for migrating over 600 end users from an on-premise Exchange 2003 environment to a hybrid Exchange 2010/Office 365 environment. Duties included planning waves of users to migrate, performing the migrations utilizing both a GUI and custom Powershell scripts, and follow up with end users to ensure success and satisfaction. LAN Support Specialist Walgreens August 2012 to February 2013 Responsible for remote level 2 support of enterprise level business solutions for end users, assignment of groups and installations packages using Enteo, and maintenance of Active Directory groups and permissions as well as Exchange distribution lists and shared mailboxes. Special projects included support for a migration to Office 365, support for a migration from Checkpoint VPN to Cisco AnyConnect, and assisting in the rollout of Airwatch as an MDM solution. Additional duties included configuring custom iPhone/iPad applications and input into training modules for the level 1 support team. Desktop Support, Grainger, Contract May 2012 to August 2012 Working in a multi domain environment worked to support the rollout of Office 365 with a focus on client configuration. Helped end users complete enrollment in Mobile Iron MDM solution as well as support for custom mobile applications. Extensive work with field users utilizing Cisco AnyConnect as well as RSA tokens and aircards to connect to corporate infrastructure. Systems Administrator Class Computing January 2012 to May 2012 Projects included a migration from Windows XP to Windows 7 for over 150 end users for a non-profit client, a migration from POTS to Cisco VOIP for over 50 users, and a cabling project running Cat 6 cable to over 100 workstations. Routine duties included creating and maintaining Active Directory profiles and permissions for small business clients, virus removal, machine builds, and utilizing Kaseya to remotely monitor and trouble shoot over 1000 workstations. Skills Active directory, Exchange, Networking, Deployment, Migrations, Ldap, Vmware, Vpn, Mdm, Byod, Android, Ios, Avaya, Database, Provisioning, Maintenance, Pbx, Windows xp, Mac, Application support Additional Information Skills    Microsoft Server 7+ years: Experienced with all versions of Windows server from 2003 through 2019, including SBS versions. Duties included setup and configuration, as well as maintenance and upgrades/migration. Strong emphasis on Active Directory and Group Policy management with Powershell used to facilitate recurring/time consuming tasks.  Exchange Server 7+ years: All versions of Exchange supported from 2003. Typical duties included managing/monitoring database size, mailbox permissions (full control, send as, etc.), and mailbox size; as well as creating transport rules as appropriate, spam filtering, and troubleshooting issues with mail flow. I have also done extensive work with Office 365 working on 10+ migrations to Exchange online.  VMWare ESXi 7+ years: Mainly focused on working with vendors to build and configure physical hosts. After building the host and installing/configuring ESXi responsibilities included provisioning VM's, installing guest operating systems, and working on image management.  Windows Desktops 6+ years: Windows XP through 10 supported across a variety of environments from 20-10,000 end users. Duties included image management, deployment, antivirus management, application support, and troubleshooting.  Networking 6+ years: Network management, configuring NAT rules and port forwarding, adding MAC addresses to access points via CLI, and group creation and configuration for web browsing restrictions. Configuring VPN end users for both AnyConnect and Open VPN clients as well as experience using LDAP for AD integration.  Mobile Device Management 3+ years: Experience with Airwatch, Mobile Iron, and Microsoft InTune MDM platforms from user configuration and management, to supporting end users on both corporately owned and BYOD iOS and Android devices.  3Com PBX 1+ year: New phone setup, voicemail box setup and management, creation of call paths and groups. I also have had exposure to Avaya systems and Cisco's CallManager.