Technical Writer Technical Writer Experienced Systems Administrator Bridgeport, CT Work Experience Technical Writer Self employed - Bridgeport, CT February 2019 to Present Technology content writer for medium and large businesses.    Past topics have included:  • "Transforming Data with Tableau"  •"Best Practices with AWS Machine Learning"  • "The 5 Pillars of AWS Well Architected Framework"  • "Serverless Technology and Agile Software Development"  • "DevOps and AWS "  • "Growth Engineering: When Growth Hacking Grows Up" Systems Administrator Lockheed Martin - Sikorsky Aircraft - Stratford, CT May 2017 to May 2019 May 22, 2017 - May 29, 2019    ? Managed 2 manufacturing sites alone with over 600 employees  ? One of the top producers department-wide  ? Excellent interpersonal skills: customer service, speaking, and writing    In-depth understanding:  • Software and Hardware Installs  • Imaging and Data Migration  • SCCM  • Windows 7, 8, 10 troubleshooting and installation  • Remote Desktop Assistance (Dameware, TeamViewer)  • Ticketing Systems (ServiceNow, Remedy)  • Inventory Management (CATS)  • Device Management (Lansweeper)  • Device Driver Problems and Resolution  • Peripheral Configuration and Troubleshooting  • Printer Diagnostic and Repair  • Encryption (BitLocker)  • IP Phones  • TCP/IP, routers and switches, DNS, DHCP  • Active Directory Users and Computers IT CONSULTANT Bridgeport, CT July 2014 to July 2018 ?Organized network security and desktop experience for a veterinarian  ? Worked with a private investigator to uncover data for consumers and court investigations  ? Managed small business server, network, and desktops for an accountant  ? Help consumers with laptops, desktops, tablets, and smartphones including iOS and macOS users TELECOMMUNICATIONS SUPERVISOR ICF International - Seattle, WA January 2012 to April 2013 ?Efficiently and effectively maintained roughly 20 agent station VoIP connections using PuTTY  ? Troubleshooting of agent computers and peripherals  ? Thorough use of Microsoft Office suite including Excel for personnel management  ? Successfully troubleshot and rebooted agent stations under instances of great duress and time constraints, including building-wide loss of power and internet connection  ? Data collected affected health policy for hundreds of thousands of Washington residents Education Master's in Information Technology Grantham University November 2017 to Present Bachelor of Science in Computer Science GRANTHAM UNIVERSITY - Bridgeport, CT October 2016 Skills Virtualization (3 years), Active Directory: Users and Computers (1 year), TCP/IP (3 years), Basic Programming (4 years), SCCM (2 years), Vmware, Windows 10 (4 years), Imaging (2 years), Inventory Management (2 years), Office 365 (2 years), Printer repair (3 years) Certifications/Licenses TestOut PC Pro (A+ equivalent; CompTIA Approved Quality Content) July 2015 to July 2018 TestOut Network Pro (Network + equivalent; CompTIA Approved Quality Content) July 2015 to July 2018