Senior Server & VMWare Admin Senior Server &amp; VMWare Admin VMWare and System Admin Renton, WA I have a deep understanding of the functions needed to be a successful system administrator. With a wide background in many subject areas I can handle the data center operations from practically every aspect. I am seeking a challenging and rewarding environment to grow my talent. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Server & VMWare Admin Central Transport - Ontario, CA June 2014 to Present Overview:  • I plan and head major projects as well as assist with hardware and application outages. I am the senior technical resource for projects, and also assisted on issues that escalated beyond helpdesk. I reported directly to the Senior Datacenter Manager and the CIO. My scope is not just for Central Transport but all CentraInc. Companies and their respective IT resources.  Responsibilities:  • Attend to daily maintenance of our datacenter servers and applications  • SAN management (Left hand and Store-virtual)  • Work with senior datacenter manager on 3par SAN replacement  • Head and coordinate terminal server rollout for our insurance arm  • Manage and maintain esxi 5.1 and 5.5 clusters  • Manage backups, sql, exchange, and any other application or service provided to CentraInc. employees.  • Maintain physical hardware of datacenter including room environment (hvac, cleanliness, lighting, presentation, cable management/tagging, and security) Systems Administrator Network Source One - Wixom, MI March 2012 to June 2014 Overview:  • NSO is a third party IT solutions provider. Our clients would range in size from small to very large. Our clients range from single server to 100+ server environments, both physical and virtual. I had a firsthand experience with many different technologies and vendors in different environments.  Responsibilities:  • Attend to server alerts (Service down, Drive Failures, ect )  • Build/Repair/Deploy servers for new clients (Physical and Virtual)  • Perform maintenance and upgrades based on our clients service contracts  • Suggest upgrades or changes to clients as they needed or requested them  • Verify customer backups daily and general network monitoring  • Worked primarily on backup and virtualization projects for customers Systems Engineer GLP & Associates - Farmington, MI August 2008 to March 2012 Responsibilities  Achievements:  • Deployed server 2k8 domain environment  • Built web applications field agents and internal accounting departments  • Created disaster recovery plan to secure our technical data  Responsibilities:  • I was the helpdesk contact for all users in my building (about 45)  • Remote support for our field sales team including configuring mobile phones  • onitor and sustain a stable Windows Server 2008 Environment   • Install Server based applications and use SCCM for updating machines   • Upgrade and maintain company hardware  • Help end user with issues and questions  • Install network printers, imaging devices, and fax machines  • Installed and configured network backbone for our office Helpdesk & Network Admin Interactive Financial - Troy, MI August 2005 to August 2008 Responsibilities:  • Manage and backup company data  • Image computers and servers as needed  • Planned and implemented server environment (AD, DNS, DHCP, File Server, Etc.)  • Help end user with issues and questions  • Configure Blackberry, Treo, and iPhone devices for company email  • Install network printers, imaging devices, and fax machines  • Keep track of equipment and department budget Education Oakland Community College Stanley Community College Skills vmware, active directory, backup, networking, dns, dhcp, storage, san, exchange, sql