Systems Specialist / System Administrator / Backups SME <span class="hl">Systems</span> Specialist / <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> / Backups SME Systems Specialist / System Administrator / Backups SME Madison, WI Work Experience Systems Specialist / System Administrator / Backups SME Applied Tech February 2019 to August 2019 System Administrator  ? Administration of O365 users and applications during workstation deployments  ? Active Directory and Group Policy Object administration  ? LOB administration; both cloud and 'on premise' (Skype, Excel, Exchange, Outlook, Sharepoint)    Backups Solutions Expert  ? HPE server configuration (RAID, iLO, Intelligent Provisioning, Server Manager, Roles, NIC teaming)  ? SME of StorageCraft backups solution (Full Ecosystem)  ? VEEAM backups solution configuration and troubleshooting (including virtualized infrastructure)  ? Deep understanding NTFS/REFS filesystems, CIFS/SMB file share, and sector level data mapping  ? Leveraging manufacturers and vendors for knowledge transfer when necessary  ? Working proficiently with manufacturers during the RMA and Compatibility Troubleshooting process    Security Specialist  ? Implementing best practice Security Procedure during the remediation of compromised accounts  ? Working vigilantly within (PCI-DSS) (NERC) and (HIPAA) regulated environments to ensure the environment integrity against compliance standards (strong practice of HISP)  ? Manually extracting remnants from the of users infected workstation (Trojan Virus)    Virtualization Specialist  ? Azure VM SKU validation for hosted applications based on statistical insights provided by resource  trends  ? Building VMware VM's to spec with required components and passthrough configuration, in addition  to restoring them from backup images  ? Azure Blob Storage management  ? Cognoscente of 'Scale Out' and the economics resource management (storage, vm's, application  resources)  ? Experience working with Server-Less & Micro-Service application environments    2 Managed Services Operations Analyst / NOC Engineer / Enterprise IT Incident Manager CDW Corporation - Fitchburg, WI November 2016 to December 2018 Operate daily in such a way that is fundamentally oriented toward customer satisfaction and incident  closure in order to satisfy Service Level Agreements (SLA's) and Minimize Mean Time to Repair  ? Engaged daily in Problem ticket creation, Event correlation, Analyzing systems and Configuration  Changes, and overall Incident Management using a variety of resources and tools  ? Working with customers and engineers to Define Issues, Measure Severity, and Analyze Root Cause  ? Using appropriately communication channels to notifying customers and engage Stakeholders, Vendors & Suppliers  ? Consulting Engineers and informing Service Account Managers, Project Managers and Coordinators  when appropriate (Completion of work, Key Milestones are met, Mission Critical information)  ? Creating Problem Tickets as a Control Measure on Known Issues or when patterns are identified and assign the Task of Discovery to the appropriate assignment group based on Technology Category,  Upstream Relationships, and the Classification of the Configuration Item, all while remaining within the scope of the item's business service agreement  ? Logging occurrences for known issues in Problem tickets and updating Knowledge articles to be used  by Tier 1 - Tier 3 engineers during Control efforts and future Change planning  ? Building and updating Knowledge Articles with new information to improve process and hone in on the procedural efficiency by defining clear stopping points  ? Manage wastage by utilizing workflow tools, documentation, and communication channels effectively  & efficiently  ? Logging onto devices performing Manual Diagnosis of the issue and confirming Live Events  ? Exercise a strong understanding of ITIL and A+ CDW Corporation March 2016 to November 2016 Smart hands (ISO/IEC 27001 compliant)  ? Analyze Technical Documentation and Data Sheets before installing components  ? Work closely with engineers on the ordering of new components for servers and network gear to ensure the item meets spec and is compatible  ? Stage, Rack, Stack, and Cabling of gear according to schema  ? Aid in the migration of circuits with vendors while on a bridge with engineers  ? Escorting IBM, NetApp, EMC, and Cisco techs  3    ? Personally manage and log billable time and logging work performed when working on Tasks of Projects  ? Auditing Assets for Compliance and Assessing Power Systems  ? Escort IBM, NetApp, EMC, and Cisco techs NOC Technical Support TDS Telecommunication - Madison, WI August 2015 to March 2016 Business and Residential)    ? Layer 1 - Layer 3 troubleshoot fiber and DSL service issues  ? Testing DS1 - DS3, T1-T3, PRI (Channelized), MPLS, BGP, SD-WAN, DSL and POTS circuits  ? First contact for business enterprise  ? Fiber and DSL residential testing    Software & Hardware Skills  Operating Systems: Windows, Linux/Suse, UNIX, iBM iSeries, Cisco iOS, vMware and vSphere    Managed Infrastructure: HPE Servers, HP Aruba, Cisco Routing & Switching, Cisco Meraki, Wireless  Controllers and AP's, Storage Controllers, f5 Load Balancers, Synology NAS, Hyper-V, VMware, Azure Cloud, Azure Blob Storage, Server-less & Micro-service, VEEAM, StorageCraft    Software & Other Enterprise IT Solutions: ServiceNow(Workflow), CRM, Automate Connectwise (RMM), TIDAL (Job Scheduler), SciLo (Monitoring), O365, Microsoft Office, Exchange Server Online, RSA Console  (SecuriD Token), MFA & Bitlocker, Anyconnect VPN Client, RDP, Putty    Certifications & Knowledge Base  A+, ITIL, and Agile, Linux System Administrator    Current working towards: Google Cloud Platform Certification path Education Associates in Arts & Sciences Madison College September 2012 to April 2014 Skills Customer relations, Architecture, Linux, Active Directory, System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin