Linux System Administrator/DevOps Engineer Linux <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/DevOps Engineer Linux System Admin/DevOps Engineer - Data Service Group Inc Houston, TX Red Hat Certified Linux System Administrator/DevOps Engineer with strong system support background in managing, monitoring, configuring, troubleshooting, and maintaining documentation for Linux based Systems and network applications. Excellent use of diverse DevOps tools for rapid and collaborative development and deployment of software applications. Work Experience Linux System Administrator/DevOps Engineer Data Service Group Inc - Bear, DE July 2016 to Present • Working with Dev team, making modifications on the code using Git VCS to clone, add, commit and push codes from local and master branches to central repositories.  • Creating new Ansible YAML, Play-books, Roles and bash shell scripts for application deployments.  • Perform application support to different applications in DevOps environment.  • Collaborating with Dev and Prod teams to ensure smooth running of the pipeline.  Verify and troubleshoot failed maven builds on Jenkins, verifying artifact id, and date stamps on Nexus, troubleshoot, document and communicate failed builds to the Dev team.  • Deploy snapshots of application codes to Dev and SIT/QA environments using playbooks & roles.  • Participate in daily scrum to improve system performance, and automation capabilities.  • Searching and testing open source applications and software to integrate into the infrastructure.  • Creating documentation resources to aid in future troubleshooting issues, to interact with users and business partners to design solutions for current and future business problems.  • Monitor system infrastructure against zero downtime, perform periodic backups, and troubleshoot failures.  • Diagnose application memory, and identify library dependencies for third party software.  • Collaborating with different teams and escalating tickets to different departments.  • Resolve package Management dependency issues.  • Using Logic Monitor to monitor overall server performance, log management and communicating log messages to appropriate teams in different environments within the organization.  • Granting Access and permissions to users in different applications.  • Creating users' account in LDAP, creating new LDAP groups and service accounts.  • Installation, configuration and hardening of Linux Servers  • Installation and Configuration of the APACHE web Server on Linux platforms, troubleshoot and access log files for errors and web access traffic.  • Launching EC2 instances, and deployment to AWS environment Linux Systems Administrator Pether Solutions - Manassas, VA February 2015 to July 2016 • System performance tuning and basics in monitoring, analyzing system and application logs, vulnerability assessments, performing upgrades and Patching.  • Managing physical, virtual, and network storage ( HD's, LVM's, NFS, SAMBA, NAS).  • Using command line & software server/application monitoring and process management tools (Nagios, Rsyslog).  • Perform installation, configuration, monitoring and troubleshooting of LAMP.  • User/group administration, file/directory security, authentication and access management (SSH, Firewalls).  • Analyzing and interpreting system and application log files.  • System configuration/hardening using Iptables, SELinux, permission on Linux server as well as restricting access to terminals, disabling unnecessary services.  • Configuration and management of network services (HTTP, NFS, SCP NTP ).  • Resolve package management dependency issues.  • Collect system information to aid in troubleshooting, document resources, monitor for any behavior modifications & intrusion, configure system to send log messages to system centralized host.  • Installation, configuration, and Hardening of standalone Linux servers.  • Performing periodic system updates/Patches.  • Performed other duties as assigned Help Desk Technician Pether Solutions - Manassas, VA December 2013 to January 2015 • Provided customer service to resolve computer issues.  • Ensure that client's computers have access to Servers and other Network resources.  • Helped customers with internet connectivity.  • Troubleshot internet and connections issues.  • Troubleshot hardware, software, and network issues.  • Provision and troubleshot telephony issues at multiple branch/resident location.  • Assisted systems support team with onsite technical troubleshooting and repair.  • Orientation of new employees. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology University of Buea 2006 Certifications/Licenses Red Hat Certified System Administrator (RHCSA) December 2017 to Present Scrum Master January 2019 to Present Logic Monitor Certified Professional (LMCP) July 2019 to Present