IT Network Administrator IT Network <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Network Administrator - Tenere Inc Northglenn, CO • Dedicated IT Support worker with strong interpersonal and organizational skills with a keen ability to multitask a variety of challenges and responsibilities.  • Extensive Hands on experience troubleshooting, maintaining, and repairing hardware and software issues with security system products and company workstations.  • Experience working side by side Vendors testing and implementation of software and hardware need to manage and run daily software.  • Experience working with the ticketing and remote software.  • Extensive experience replacing and upgrading end users systems, including Windows and MAC.  • Extensive experience supporting end users and customers utilizing strong written and verbal communication. Work Experience IT Network Administrator Tenere Inc February 2019 to Present • Help build new network for new building in WI and MX.  • Build, replace, or troubleshoot problems with all Tenere systems.  • Procured, built, tested, and deployed new hardware for Tenere employees.  • Answer calls from Business Partners and troubleshoot issues over the phone.  • Server management.  • Network Monitoring.  • Asset management  • Responsible for the network switching and routing.    Environment: Office 365, InTune, Azure, Dell computer platform, Active Directory IT Systems Administrator Tenere Inc March 2016 to February 2019 • Help build new network for new building in CO.  • Build, replace, or troubleshoot problems with all Tenere systems.  • Procured, built, tested, and deployed new hardware for Tenere employees.  • Answer calls from Business Partners and troubleshoot issues over the phone.  • Server management.  • Network Monitoring.  • Asset management    Environment: Office 365, InTune, Azure, Dell computer platform, Active Directory Desktop Support Consultant Southwest Search & Consulting Inc November 2015 to February 2016 • Build Win10 Dell computers.  • Work with Shea Homes customers and troubleshoot issues.  • Build, replace, or troubleshoot problems with Shea systems.  • Deploy systems that needed to be refreshed.  • Answer calls from Business Partners and troubleshoot issues over the phone.    Environment: MS Office Suite, Multiple software, Dell computer platform Desktop Support Intermediate Apex Systems June 2015 to October 2015 • Build Win7 and Win8 HP computers.  • Work with Kaiser Permanente customers and troubleshoot issues.  • Work with Remedy to build, replace, or troubleshoot problems with Kaiser Systems.  • Deploy systems that needed to be refreshed.  • Answer calls from Business Partners and troubleshoot issues over the phone.  • Troubleshoot vendor specific software used by Kaiser Permanente departments.    Environment: MS Office Suite, Lenel software, Multiple software, HP computer platform Desktop Support Associate Kaiser Permanente October 2014 to March 2015 • Build Win7 and Win8 HP computers.  • Work with Kaiser Permanente customers and troubleshoot issues.  • Work with Remedy to build, replace, or troubleshoot problems with Kaiser Systems.  • Deploy systems that needed to be refreshed.  • Answer calls from Business Partners and troubleshoot issues over the phone.  • Troubleshoot vendor specific software used by Kaiser Permanente departments.  • Dealt with department specific equipment supported by outside vendors. When needed documented for future use to save time for techs.    Environment: MS Office Suite, Lenel software, Multiple software, HP computer platform Workstation PC Technician Rose International - Contracted July 2013 to October 2014 • Build Win7 computers.  • Work with Kaiser Permanente customers and troubleshoot issues.  • Work with Remedy to build, replace, or troubleshoot problems with Kaiser Systems.  • Deploy systems that needed to be refreshed.    Environment: MS Office Suite, Lenel software, Multiple software, HP computer platform Education High school Diploma Boling High School - Boling, TX Skills Switching, Ms office, Remedy, Lenel, Crystal reports, Microsoft access, Information Technology, Desktop Support, It Specialist, Help Desk Additional Information SKILLS  • MS Office Suite, Remedy, Lenel, SAI, AIMES, and Patriot, Crystal Reports, Microsoft ACCESS, Kaiser SMART and SAT, NexDGen software delivery, Kiosk set up. Troubleshooting hardware and software issues. Use of SCCM and other software delivery systems. Office 365, AD management, network switching and routing.