Technical Support Specialist Technical Support Specialist Technical Support Specialist Ripley, WV Skilled and highly motivated experienced Microsoft Certified Professional with extensive customer support experience in the corporate environment seeking a challenging position that will enable to me apply my skills, education, certification and technical knowledge in the service of a progressive organization in the computer and network technology industry. Work Experience Technical Support Specialist NGK Spark Plugs (U.S.A), Inc - Sissonville, WV April 2014 to June 2018 Provided advanced Technical Support to end users on Windows 7 and Windows 10  ? Supported users with resolving advanced issues with Microsoft Office 365 full suite  ? Experienced with installation and configuration of Microsoft Office 365 as well as upgrade from previous versions  ? Provided support with LAN and WAN issues, including but not limited to: ethernet wiring and connection issues, routing issues, wireless, DHCP and DNS  ? Assisted users with creation and modification of bar code labels using Bartender software  ? Assisted with migration of labels and formatting from Bartender 10.1 to Bartender 2016  ? Assisted with migration of Bartender server from ver. 10.1 to 2016  ? Administered and maintained Axis Security camera and recording system, along with troubleshooting issues with individual cameras and providing firmware upgrades  ? Imaged and configured computers using Windows Deployment Services and Volume Activation Management Tool  ? Familiar with Manage Engine Desktop Central tools for asset management and patch deployment  ? Provided assistance and back up to System Administrators as needed Jr. Systems Administrator Innotrac Corp - Columbus, OH May 2008 to March 2012 Provided Technical Support to end users on Windows XP  ? Supported end users with troubleshooting and resolving computer network, hardware and software issues  ? Assisted users with resolving issues with Microsoft Office products including Word, Excel, Outlook, and Power Point  ? Created and printed labels using Bartender  ? Configured and provided support for Zebra label printers  ? Assisted in maintaining company network and server infrastructure on Windows Server 2003  ? Monitored and maintained current backups of servers using Netbackup  ? Monitored and maintained servers using Windows Performance Monitor and Event Logs  ? Configured, monitored and maintained current and timely server and desktop updates using WSUS  ? Configured and maintained wireless infrastructure in warehouse environment using Avalanche Mobility Center  ? Managed user and computer accounts using Active Directory and Group Policy  ? Built and imaged new PCs and servers using Symantec/Norton Ghost products  ? Familiar with HP server platforms, Extreme networking switches, and Symbol RF devices  ? Assisted with planning and implementing CAT5 and fibre optic cable routing to meet changing business needs Technical Support Agent TeleperformanceUSA - Columbus, OH February 2007 to December 2007 Provided Premium Technical Support to Verizon DSL customers  ? Supported customers in troubleshooting and resolving computer network, hardware, and software issues  ? Assisted customers with installation and configuration of third party software  ? Assisted customers with configuration of various Windows operating systems, including 98SE, ME, 2000, XP Home and Professional, and Vista  ? Assisted customers with setup of home networking systems, including wired and wireless router configuration and printer sharing  ? Assisted customers with identification and removal of various malware  ? Assisted customers with Remote Access and VPN issues  ? Assisted customers with configuration and troubleshooting of email clients including Outlook and Outlook Express  ? Accurately entered call tracking information into call tracking database and escalated to appropriate departments Education High school or equivalent