Sr Systems Services & Support Analyst Sr <span class="hl">Systems</span> Services &amp; Support Analyst Linux Systems Administrator Cincinnati, OH Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Systems Services & Support Analyst Fidelity Investments April 2018 to Present • 24/7 support of over 500+ applications  • Diagnose and troubleshoot server problems.  • Wrote custom php dashboard to display os/security patching status  • Sha1 to sha2 certificate upgrades across load balancer and web applications  • Maintain Security/Os patching compliance  • Support new build outs and upgrades of applications Linux Systems Administrator Cincinnati Bell June 2017 to February 2018 Document technical procedures for knowledge base  ? Diagnose and troubleshoot server problems using Elk stack (kibana)  ? Built new virtual machines using the foreman (vcenter frontend) for provisioning  ? Upgraded NagiosXi and gearman add on using Puppet  ? Maintained puppet git repo for handling software changes and user changes on all linux  machines  ? Handled all tickets related to windows and linux using Team Dynamics ticketing system  ? Google Administrator for the whole miami university domains  ? Helped maintain datacenter machines. This included wiring and racking machines. As  well as configuring drac cards and troubleshooting bad hardware.  ? Maintained tcp wrappers, iptables and Two factor authentication (PAM) for proper  system access  ? Handled all server decomissions. This includes windows and linux.  ? Ibm Spectrum Protect (formerly Ibm Tivoli)  ? LastPass Administrator  ? Helped troubleshoot CUPS issues within Banner application  ? Maintained LISTSERV user permissions and access.  ? Maintained inventory in NocIT system  ? Built development and test boxes using vagrant and puppet for local testing. Tier 2 Network Engineer Nuspire Networks December 2016 to June 2017 Responding to down Firewall alerts  ? Security Events  ? Virtual Ips/Port Forwards  ? Content/Web Filtering  ? Application Control  ? SSL Inspection  ? Proxies  ? Protection Profiles  ? Firewall Polices  ? User Accounts  ? SNMP Services  ? IDS/IPS (Fortinet and Snort)  ? DHCP/DNS configuration  ? Working with our SIEM (Security Information and Event Management) system  NuSIEM for Analysis. NoMachine Support Engineer Computer Products Corporation June 2016 to November 2016 Responded promptly to pre-sales for US/Canada including trouble shooting of issues and determining the best product to fit their environment.  ? Prepared pricing quotes for software licensing and processed orders.  ? Answered calls for the US presales and support lines for NoMachine US/Canada.  ? Organized conference calls and Webex demonstrations of the product.  ? Reproduced, troubleshoot and resolved trouble tickets while working as a liaison between between NoMachine US/Canada customers and the EU support/development team.  ? Built Linux and Windows environments in VirtualBox to use for reproducing issues and testing new versions of the NoMachine software.  ? Built multi-node environments for testing load balancing and high availability and web-based cloud computing.  ? Diagnose and repair hardware issues as part of Igel America's RMA team.  ? Built and maintained a network used for imaging and updating thin clients.  ? Responsible for ordering and keeping a stock of parts used to repair thin clients. Linux Systems Administrator Impactfax/Wolverine Wireless/UTS April 2013 to June 2016 Design and implement Pfsense firewalls for full deployment to a 100 sites  ? Nagios full deployment with alerts.  ? Full freenas build out including server design  ? Freeswitch with hand built custom modules for skype  ? Converted from headless virualbox to Proxmox  ? Upgraded mysql to maria db  ? Added support for mysql-proxy  ? Handle all emergency situations  ? Implemented ticketing system for company wide use ( Request Tracker)  ? Advance voip configs for Grandstream and Yalink phones (dhcp boot)  ? Maintain all email including new dovecot and sendmail setups  ? Setup and maintain apache webservers  ? Implemented pfsense, freenas, proxmox, and windows clients rotating backup script  ? Bash and awk data mining.  ? Write sql queries for reporting  ? Openvpn and ipsec setup  ? Github setup for developers. Also added gogs front end.  ? Designed omega holdings website: http://omegahold.com  ? Handled all netgate box flaws. Including reflashing.  ? Asterisk maintenance and troubleshooting of ivr and call issues.  ? Quickbooks daily backups on windows server 2012  ? Restructure of colo racks for better server optimization and clean wiring  ? Commercial UAV reasearch I.T. Consultant The Normandy Group August 2012 to February 2013 Maintaining, upgrading SharePoint sites  ? Developing custom web parts for SharePoint  ? Create, change and delete user accounts and privileges.  ? Moving/copying sites.  ? Regular review of the events and messages reported in Event Viewer and Performance  Monitor  ? Setting up alerts and enforcing policies for improved SharePoint security  ? Checking for operating system, SQL Server and SharePoint patches and cumulative  updates Internet Analyst Local Great Deals/Harvest Info February 2011 to June 2012 Design, code, test, and document web solutions, including some web page design tasks.  ? Enhance existing sites and programs to ensure that data processing production systems  continue to meet user needs.  ? Develop detailed system design specifications to serve as a guide for system/program  development.  ? Assist in estimating time required to complete projects  ? Other duties as assigned Nutrition Specialist General Nutrition Center October 2010 to December 2010 Sold, Trained, and educated customers about nutrition.  ? Help customers develop personal fitness goals and nutrition plans Imaging Tech and Network Specialist Forward Edge August 2010 to August 2010 Network service consultant wiring, set up.  ? Configuration of all Mairemont and Terrace Park school computers ATM Software Tester Kal Software July 2010 to August 2010 Perform system, unit, acceptance, regression, load and functional/performance testing on dozens of applications using both automated and manual testing methods.  ? Leverage knowledge of programming to help validate, verify, communicate and resolve  software issues through careful, thoroughly documented. Software Tester London Computer Systems (LCS) January 2009 to June 2009 Responsible for user requirements analysis, Business Scope Determination, Analysis,  installations, Data Capturing, System pre-testing, Post implementation requirements  analysis.  ? Software implementation and deployment  ? Support and application maintenance:- Application upgrades, user training manuals,  solution design to enhancement  ? Documentation - using naming standards, easy to read for anyone to use. Test plans,  requirements, application changes, sign off, support business Scope Determination  ? Maintain and administer company's in-house LAN infrastructure Education Bachelors in Information Systems Strayer University Skills LINUX (8 years), BASH (5 years), FIREWALLS (3 years), INTERNET PROTOCOL SECURITY (3 years), IPSEC (3 years), Vmware, Active Directory, System Administrator, System Admin, Red Hat, Linux Administrator, Redhat, System Admin, Vmware, System Administrator, Red Hat, Active Directory Additional Information Seven years of Linux experience and Windows administration  One year of MS SharePoint maintenance and upgrade experience  Very familiar with all versions of Linux, most versions of Linux  Experienced with maintenance tasks on Python, PHP, LAMP, MySQL/Mariadb (via LAMP)    Technical Proficiencies  Operating Systems: Linux (Red Hat, Debian, Fedora and Ubuntu) Windows 95+ to Windows 10, Windows  Server 2008+ to Windows 2016, Android and IOS.  Network: TCP/IP, DNS, OpenVpn, Ipsec, SSL VPN, DHCP, SMTP, IMAP, POP, Dovecot, Openldap, Network  issue debugging experience (Packet Sniffing), SSH, Telnet, FTP, Traceroute, NMap, Active Directory, Cloud  Services (Office 365). MS Exchange 2003/2012, VPN setup and configuration. Also experienced working  with pfsense and fortigate firewalls.  Storage: Nfs, CIFS, FreeNas, Vsan, ISCSI, LVM  Programming/ Scripting Languages: Perl, Python, PHP, Bash  Databases: Microsoft Access, MySQL, and MariaDB  Hardware: Unmanaged and Managed Network Switches, Routers, hubs, Printers, Servers.  Web Development: CSS3, XHTML, HTML5, Photoshop, SharePoint, PHP, Flash, Adobe Photoshop,  Adobe Dreamweaver/Illustrator, MS Visual Studio 2012, MS Visual Web Developer 2010