Program Manager and Technical Advisor Program Manager and Technical Advisor Program Manager and Technical Advisor Fredericksburg, VA Work Experience Program Manager and Technical Advisor USASA Fort Belvoir - Fort Belvoir, VA September 2018 to August 2019 • Earned DISA facility of the year for 2 consecutive years while the operations and program manager for the entire facility.  • Developed new training pipeline and course materials for new employees to certify in proprietary site equipment and procedures. Improved customer satisfaction and work efficiency by 200%.  • Maintained, authorized, and coordinated all work done in the facility to ensure customers approved all outages, and upgrades for high level government communications.  • Supervised and implemented strategic communication link setup, operation, and teardown. Controlled all change request, customer feedback, and operational changes for the entire facility. Shift Supervisor USASA Fort Belvoir - Fort Belvoir, VA May 2017 to August 2018 • Led a team of 20 customer support technicians at a 24-hour facility maintaining satellite communications for government agencies, the Secretary of Defense, and the President of the United States.  • Lead the most efficient and technically knowledgeable team for the facility out of 4 shifts and rated 1 out of 10 supervisors for the facility for 2 consecutive years.  • Supervised daily maintenance, correspondence, and reporting on satellite and network equipment.  • Watch Officer and liaison to all agencies and companies for troubleshooting and solving technical and administrative issues. Trainee/Operator Joint Communications Unit - Fort Bragg, NC August 2016 to April 2017 • Worked with the most advanced signal equipment in the DOD to conduct training and operations.  • Passed the top-level communications course in the top 10% of all the DOD.  • Conducted operations and assessments in clandestine environments with minimal resources. Technical/Program Advisor 7th Special Forces Group Airborne - Kabul, AF August 2014 to July 2016 • Maintained and controlled over 15 million dollars of equipment for over 12 different communication sites across the country.  • Developed organizational size networks for temporary use from different locations around the U.S. Improvised networks in order to meet the needs of the organization in various locations for over 250 work stations with 99.9% reliability.  • Received honors for building, innovating, and implementing with a team the standardization of a multinational network to help the organization communicate with the customer.  • Oversaw maintained and adapted multiple organizational networks. Lead a support team of 10 with technical expertise, logistics, and customer support. Conducted daily briefings at a strategic level for Division heads, and Deputy Directors.  • Corresponded with outside agencies, customers, and in order to expand and troubleshoot network wide operations. Sr. Systems/Network Administrator 7th Special Forces Group - Eglin AFB, FL June 2012 to August 2014 Kandahar, AFG  • Worked as the only IT support for over 120 people, operating as a System/Network Administrator, Comsec Manager. Briefed and conducted high level operations under stress successfully with limited resources maintaining a 99.9% reliability. Inventoried and maintained over 1 million dollars in electronic equipment.  • Work scope included network infrastructure, imaging and software upgrades, optimizing and planning setup and tear down of entire network.    Technical Expertise| Training  • VSAT communications, Hawkeye/SNAP antenna, AN/GSC-52A/B, AN/FRC-181, EBEM  • Information Assurance, Active Directory, Helpdesk  • Proprietary Integrated systems monitoring  • TCP/IP Networking  • Microsoft Systems and Software Academy/Cybersecurity Skills Microsoft Office (8 years), Iinux (1 year), Cybersecurity (4 years), Azure (Less than 1 year), Satellite Communications (8 years), AWS (1 year), Cisco Networking (7 years), TCP/IP (7 years), Networking (8 years), Information Security (6 years), Information Technology (8 years), Unix Administration (Less than 1 year), Splunk (1 year), satellite communications (8 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/vancewrichmond Certifications/Licenses Security+ December 2019 to December 2022 Network+ December 2019 to December 2022 A+ Certified December 2019 to December 2022