Sales Associate Sales Associate Construction Los Angeles, CA I am a U.S. Marine Corps veteran transitioning into the field of construction and carpentry. I live a drug free life style with no criminal background, and own a work ethic and dedication to duty not commonly found in others. Although I am new to the field, I am passionate and eager to learn. I am confident that my experiences in and out of the military will prove to be a valuable addition and force multiplier in your team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sales Associate The Home Depot - Gardena, CA January 2019 to May 2019 As a flooring/decor sales associate, assist customers with expert knowledge on floor and wall install and remodel. Field Service Technician Cubic Transportation Systems - Norwalk, CA April 2018 to June 2018 Perform testing, repair and maintenance activities to equipment at field sites.   Operate and maintain digital and analog electronic devices and troubleshoots assemblies to the board level.   Interfaces with customer agency in a professional manner.  Identify and analyze equipment malfunctions and utilizes various maintenance and repair manuals, test equipment, wiring diagrams, schematics, electronic devices and electrical equipment, to rework, repair and maintain equipment. Order Puller/Packer Beyond Staffing Solutions - Carson, CA January 2018 to March 2018 As an Order Puller/Packer my primary responsibility is the accurate inventory and accountability of frozen food products and weights asked for on order purchase documents. After being verified, orders are then lifted using pallet jacks or forklifts into transportation trailers. Data Systems Administrator United State Marine Corps - Cherry Point, NC March 2013 to January 2018 Data Systems Administration   • Successfully establish and maintain tactical networks overseas and within the U.S. in field and office environments. This includes preventative and reactive maintenance of information systems, audio and visual equipment, and printing/scanning assets.  • Physical wiring of computers, switches, and servers. Email account creations using Microsoft Exchange Server 2010 and user/group account creations using Active Directory.   • Developed a baseline Cyber Security Management program for unit, resulting in the increase of cyber security readiness and awareness, and the decrease of cyber incidents involving unauthorized external devices and illegal network activity.     Warehouse Clerk  • Packing of equipment for transportation on and off pallets.   • Loading and unloading of equipment from trucks.  • Issue and transport of equipment for routine calibrations and disposition on 3-ton trucks.  • Request and purchase of equipment through the Marine Corps Global Combat Support System (GCSS-MC).  • Conduct routine wall to wall inspections and reconciliations of warehouse equipment on Consolidated Memorandum Receipts (CMR).    Field  • Established multiple Combat Operations Centers (COC) in field environments, which involves set-up and tear-  down of large tents, liners, lighting and air conditioning systems, which resulted in proving unit capabilities in a  deployed environment.    Security  • Extensive experience working in security details throughout 5 year enlistment for classified spaces, special events,  and entry control points into operational compounds.  • Trained in day and night patrol in urban and field environments, with routine room clearing.  • Qualified as Expert with M16 Rifle in 2013, 2014, 2017.  • Qualified as Expert with M27 Infantry Automatic Rifle in 2014.    Emergency Medical Service  • Conducted 48 hours of ride along time with local Fire-Rescue teams, resulting in on-hand patient treatment and  transportation.  • Conducted 8 hours of in-hospital care for emergency and minor patient treatment.    Supervision  • Provided leadership to junior personnel ensuring 100% increase in promotions.  • Conducted routine counseling and guidance to personnel, resulting in success in their personal and professional  lives.    Investigation  • Investigated and tracked down over $10,000 worth of information systems.  • Routinely reconciled and audited information system inventories, totaling over $60,000. Custodian/Janitor LA Fitness - Los Angeles, CA 2013 Groundskeeper Los Angeles Parks and Recreation - Los Angeles, CA 2011 Teacher's Assistant Los Angeles Unified School District - Los Angeles, CA 2009 Education Associate in Carpentry Los Angeles Trade Technical College - Los Angeles, CA August 2018 to February 2020 Data Systems Technician in Communication Electronics School United States Marine Corps - 29 Palms, CA January 2014 to June 2014 Marine Combat Training School United States Marine Corps - Camp Pendleton, CA October 2013 High School Diploma John C. Fremont H.S - Santa Monica, CA Skills Leadership Training (3 years), Conflict Resolution (4 years), Training & Development (3 years), Fire Safety (1 year), Computer Repair (3 years), Communications (4 years), Marksmanship and Fire-Arm Safety (5 years), Active Directory (3 years), Order Puller (Less than 1 year), Picker Packer (Less than 1 year), Field Technician (Less than 1 year), Field Service, Microsoft Word, Training, drywall, Framing, Carpentry, Remodeling, Construction Laborer, Trim, Skilled Military Service Branch: Marine Corps Service Country: United States Rank: Sergeant / E-5 March 2013 to Present June 2014- December 2017: Served as Marine Aircraft Group 14 (MAG-14) S-6 Data Systems Administrator responsible for the installation, operation, and maintenance of all MAG-14 communication systems in order to provide reliable communications services to all users within MAG-14 to all users within MAG-14 in both a garrison and deployed environment; provide expert technical support for ongoing exercises and deploying subordinate MAG units. Commendations: NATIONAL DEFENSE SERVICE MEDAL  SEA SERVICE DEPLOYMENT RIBBON  NAVY AND MARINE CORPS ACHIEVEMENT MEDAL SECOND AWARD  MARINE CORPS GOOD CONDUCT MEDAL  GLOBAL WAR ON TERRORISM SERVICE MEDAL  GLOBAL WAR ON TERRORISM EXPEDITIONARY MEDAL  CERTIFICATE OF APPRECIATION  CERTIFICATE OF COMMENDATION  LETTER OF APPRECIATION (FOUR) Certifications/Licenses North Carolina EMT-Basic A+ Certified Present Earned A+ certification and reviewed CCNA modules 1-3 during Marine Corps Communications School Driver's License Additional Information References    1st Lieutenant Jack Chang  U.S. Marine Corps  (310) 483-3377  jack.j.chang@usmc.mil    1st Lieutenant James A. Hughes  U.S. Marine Corps  (404) 314-7296    Sergeant Desirae L. Weis  U.S. Marine Corps  (443) 462-1652    Roberto Villanueva  Cubic Transportation Systems  Field Technician and Dispatch Supervisor   (562) 412-9776