Web Administrator Web <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Toledo, OH My name is Nick, I have a passion for computers and Linux. I've been working with Linux for 4 years now. I have learned a lot, but also have a lot more to learn. I'm a very quick learner and love to learn. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Administrator Nicks.TV October 2015 to Present Administer numerous Linux machines. Debian and CentOS.  I work with NGINX, PHP, Python. I don't have much programming experience, but I know how to make modifications if needed to get things working Sys Admin HomeLab January 2015 to Present Windows  - Windows 7/10 support and configuration  - Windows Imaging using Fog Project  Linux  - Debian and CentOS  - Systemd and Systemv (Configure and control units Troubleshoot why unit/service isn't  starting and/or working correctly)  - Iptables (Edit and configure firewall rules)  - PHP (Created a website in college and I know how to configure a public PHP site within NGINX)  - NGINX (Configure PHP, Static, and Reverse Proxy websites)  Networking  - Cisco (Configure VLANs. Configure ports for VLAN and/or trunk access)  - pfSense (Configure firewall and routing for subnets behind Cisco switch)  PBX  - FreePBX (Configure SIP trunk and SIP devices)  - FusionPBX (Configure SIP trunk and SIP devices)  Programming  - Light python, PHP, and C++ programming.  - Have also worked with Arduinos (C+, Java) and Picaxe (BASIC) Systems Administrator MR Direct - Toledo, OH April 2019 to July 2019 Linux Administration  - Work with CentOS and Debian servers, some with cPanel and others without.  - Work with MySQL on Linux and Windows servers. Create database, users, and light querying  - Configure Apache on Linux servers. Create virtual hosts and configure logging  Windows Administration  - Manage Windows 7/10 computers being used as servers for Quickbooks and UPS WorldShip  VMWare  - Work with vCenter and ESXi 5.5 for managing VMs  AWS Administration  - Audit billing, VMs, and firewalls  - Work with S3 storage utilizing rclone  Projects Headed and executed  - Migrate Quickbooks to new VM in ESXi environment  - Migrate Jira, Bitbucket, and Bamboo into new VM  - Install and configure network monitoring using LibreNMS and SNMP on Windows and Linux  servers  - Set up Jitsi meet server  - Set up Wiki using MediaWiki  Development  - Light PHP development  - Bash Scripting Jr System Admin CISP - Sylvania, OH June 2018 to April 2019 Linux troubleshooting and configuring  - Network issues (Configure networking using /etc/network/interfaces)  - Systemd and Systemv issues (Determining why unit or service isn't starting and resolve the issue)  Windows server and desktop troubleshooting and configuring  - Network issues  - Set up AD, DNS, DHCP  VMWare ESXi, vSphere, and VCSA  - Work with VCSA and vSphere to spin up and deleting VMs. Tier 2 and Desktop Support CISP - Sylvania, OH December 2014 to June 2018 Client and In house Technical Support  - Configure Windows 7/10 Computers for employees  - Add PCs to domain  - Change AD information  - Add users in AD and Exchange  - Fog Imaging Software  Control4 support  - Program switches, TVs, etc  - Create and edit scenes  Security Camera Support (Unifi, Avigalon, Bosch, BlueIris)  - Configure cameras (IP Addressing, Bandwidth settings)  Network support  - Assist network engineer while onsite Education Associate of Applied Science in Computer Science Owens Community College - Perrysburg, OH August 2014 to April 2019 Springfield High School - Toledo, OH August 2008 to June 2012 Skills System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory, Linux, Vmware, Linux Administrator, Redhat, Red Hat Links https://nicks.tv https://nickshelp.info Certifications/Licenses Linux+ January 2019 to Present Comptia Linux+ LPIC-1 January 2019 to January 2024 LPIC-1