Sr. DevOps Engineer Sr. DevOps Engineer Sr. DevOps Engineer - MERCK West Point, PA • 8+ years of experience in various software domains where my specialization is in System Administration & DEVOPS which includes Build Configuration, SCM, Build and Release Management application under various platforms.  • Expertise in Red Hat Satellite Server installation, Red Hat Linux Kick start, System Imager, SUSE Autoyast and Jumpstart in Solaris.  • Experience in Design and perform system management, database management, configuration management.  • Deep troubleshooting, preventative and corrective maintenance, performance monitoring and enhancement.  • AWS Certified Solutions Architect.  • Having good Experience in Chef and Puppet for Deployment on Multiple platforms.    • Experience in VMware and Open Stack.  • Familiarity with a broad portfolio of AWS infrastructure resources (EBS, S3, EC2, Elastic IP, Redshift, EMR, Route 53, VPC, Security Groups and Network ACLs)  • Experience in using version controller tools like Subversion (SVN), GIT, IBM Clear case UCM and PVCS.  • Extensively worked on Hudson, Jenkins and Team City for continuous integration and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Implementation of Micro services applications using Netflix tech stack*  • Contribute to the Ansible Galaxy role-sharing service with roles, pull requests, and reviews.  • Contribute to the Ansible support knowledgebase.  • ELK Stack components (Elasticsearch) to build dashboards that aggregate application metrics for both proactive and reactive monitoring of a major IPTV player's IPTV Systems.  • Incorporated the Code Quality Tools to Find Bugs and Covertures into ANT Projects.  • Look for errors like missing S.N.M.P Data in windows azurecloud using NetMON tools.  • Deep knowledge of IaaS platform(s) like AWS, Azure, and VMWare.  • Strong understanding of infrastructure automation tooling (terraform, cloud formation templates  • MySQL database backup and recovery strategies and Replication and synchronization.  • Hands-on experience with Chef/Puppet as Configuration management tool, to automate repetitive tasks. Extensive technical knowledge and experience in enterprise virtualization environments including creating and managing Datacenter, Virtual Machines.  • Utilized Ansible, Puppet, Git and Rundeck to install and Confgure Linux environments with successful production.  • Experience in using IDE Tools like Eclipse andNetBeans.  • Good experience in implementing J2EE compliant applications using various Design patterns, Struts framework, Spring, MVC framework, Hibernate and Messaging Middle-ware using JMS.  • Extensive experience in .Net Applications based on Object Oriented Programming (OOPS),Internet Technologies, Web based, Client/Server, n-tier and Service Oriented Architecture (SOA)  • quickly deploys critical applications, and proactively manages change.  • Worked with development engineers to ensure automated test efforts are tightly integrated with the build system and in fixing the error while doing the deployment and building.  • Exposed to all aspects of software development life cycle (SDLC)such as Analysis, Planning, Developing, Testing, and Implementing, Post-production analysis of the projects.  • Good understanding of Cloud Computing: virtualization technologies, Infrastructure as a Service, Platform as a Service and Software as a Service Cloud delivery models and the current competitive landscape.  • Ability in deploying the developed code in a WebSphere/WebLogic/Apache Tomcat/JBOSS, IIS7.  • Excellent knowledge on Java/J2EE and also the ability to develop XML, HTML, Shell Scripts and Perl Scripts.  • Experience with querying on data present in Cassandra cluster using CQL (Cassandra Query Language)  • Efficient in working closely with core product teams to ensure high quality and timely delivery of builds.  • Excellent experience in documenting and automating the build and release process.  • Ability in managing all aspects of the software configuration management process including code compilation, packaging/deployment/release methodology & application configurations.  • Expertise in QueryingRDBMS such as Oracle, SQL Server using SQL, PL/SQL for data integrity.  • Experience in using bug tracking systems like JIRA, Remedy, and HP Quality Center  • Proficient in tracing complex build problems, release issues and environment issues in a multi-component environment  • Extensively used build utilities like Maven, ANT for a building of jar, war, and ear files.  • Expertise in troubleshooting the problems generated while building, deploying and also in production support  • Excellent communicative, interpersonal, intuitive, analysis and leadership skills with ability to work efficiently in both independent and team work environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. DevOps Engineer MERCK January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Implemented AWS solutions using E2C, S3, RDS, EBS, and Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups and optimized volumes, EC2 instances.  • Classified and identify the configurations Items such as documents, Source Items, Support Items and Archive items Created Repository structure in the Subversion. And Installing Subversion, Apache Tomcat, Application servers on Unix Servers.  • Migrated applications to the AWS cloud.  • Implementing new projects build framework using Jenkins & maven as build framework tools.  • Experience with an in-depth level of understanding in the strategy and practical implementation of AWS Cloud-Specific technologies including EC2, EBS, S3, VPC, RDS, SES, ELB, EMR, ECS, Cloud Front,  • Cloud Formation, Elastic Cache, Cloud Watch, RedShift, Lambda, SNS, Dynamo DB.  • Implementing a Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment framework using Jenkins, Maven &Artifactory in Linux environment.  • Established the change control in response to approved issues and maintained the revision management, base lining  • Maintained the Tags, Branching and merging the code in the parallel development of two phases and applied the vendor patches to the Trunk and All branches in Subversion Repository.  • Extensively worked on Jenkins, Buildforge and AnthillPro for Continuous integration and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Documenting the process of code promotion, defect tracking and user guide for Subversion. Maintained users' security on SVN. Worked with MAVEN for building the application, has written MAVEN scripts and shell scripts to automate the build process.  • Experience in Building S3 buckets and managed policies for S3 buckets and used S3 bucket and  • Glacier for storage and backup on AWS. Experience in writing scripts in Python for various applications.  • Administering the UNIX, SVN Repository. Migrated the code from other Version Control to Subversion.  • Integrated Maven with Jenkins for the builds as the Continuous Integration Process.  • Jenkins Continuous integration Server - Installation, Configuration, Design and Administration, and integrating tools with other systems  • Creation of new Perl classes and the associated .t test files.  • Written Perl script to automate the daily Production Data EXchange jobs, daily production DB data extracts.  • Development involved technologies like core Java, groovy, grails, javascript.  • Expertise in developing and implementing web applications using J2EE Technologies, which includes Servlets, JSP, Java Beans.  • Used CLI library as a best practice to achieve code optimization in groovy.  • Proficiency in using RDBMS concepts and worked with Oracle, SQL server.  • Responsible for analyzing, designing and coding of applications using Python(Robert framework)  • Hands on openstack command line interfaces to use admin commands.  • Creation of stand alone, browser based and command line, Perl utilities that run on windows and linux.  • Involved in Installing and configuring GIT distributed version control tool.  • Written pre-commit, post-commit, post-receive hooks in GIT  • Managing the database DDL, DML scripts in SVN and GIT.  • Evolving new tools/methodologies to improve this existing process and show better results to all stakeholders.  • Implemented Chef to spawn new servers with right configuration  • Creating a scope change request with plutora.  Environment:Ant, Maven,AWS,Groovy,Jenkins,git, plutora Jira, Crucible. Sr. DevOps Engineer Medica - Hopkins, MN June 2016 to 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked with different application teams to understand, analyze their current process, tools, techniques, workflows and involved in evaluation and finalization of a state of art tools.  • Improved entire release process by automating all manual/time-consuming Steps with DevOps tools likeChef, Jenkins, Rundeck, Docker, and AWS.  • Developed Chef recipes to configure, deploy and maintain software components of the existing/new infrastructure,  • Maintained and enhanced the chef recipes and MSBuild Scripts.  • Used PowerShell, Python, MSBuild, and Web Deploy for deployment automation.  • Used Chef to manage Web Applications, Environment configuration Files, Users, Mount Points, and Packages.  • Worked on cloud environment, OpenStack and created instances and migrated various applications to OpenStack.  • Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test.  • Created mockups and wireframes for a new website.  • Developed Chef roles, environments, Databags, Cookbooks, templates and test kitchen.  • Created Puppet modules to define the resources within our code. Created the MongoDB module to install the server and client, set options and configure replica sets.  • Wrote good number of Puppet manifest and checked with Puppet lint before commit.  • Migrated SVN repositories into GIT using SubGit.  • Managed SVN/Git repositories for branching, merging and tagging.  • Resolved merging issues during rebasing and re-integrating branches by conducting meetings with Development Team Leads.  • Provide views into the ElasticSearch, Logstash, Kibana (ELK) stack that Amazon Elasticsearch Service provides.  • Exposure to automation in Ansible using its Python API.  • Implement and manage Continuous delivery systems and methodologies on AWS, Used Subversion as source code repositories.  • Used BitBucket for Version Control and Tortoise Hg for Branching and Merging.  • Responsible for designing and deploying best SCM processes and procedures.  • Worked closely with software developers and Sysadmin to debug software and system problems  • Maintained and coordinated environment configuration, controls, code integrity, and code conflict resolution.  • Installing, configuring and administering Jenkins CI tool on Linux/Windows/Mac machines.  • Coordinate/assist developers with establishing and applying appropriate branching, labeling/naming conventions using GIT source control.  • Analyze and resolve conflicts related to the merging of source code for GIT.  • Implemented the setup for Master-slave architecture to improve the Performance of Jenkins.  • Suggested tools and related implementation to engineering teams regarding cloud-based services.  • Executed QA services for enhancing the efficiency of technologies AND related updates for cloud storage Applications.  • Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration and continuous deployment to Tomcat/Weblogic Application Server in Multiple environments.  • Installed and Configured the Nexus repository manager for sharing the artifacts within the company.  • Supported and developed tools for integration, automated testing and release management.  • Verified if the methods used to create and recreate software builds are consistent and repeatable.  • Involved in Research of the project application architecture to support/resolve build, compile, and test issues/problems.  • Releasing code to testing regions or staging areas according to the schedule published.  • Used Jira as ticket tracking and work flow tool.    Environment: Java/J2ee, SVN, GIT,Bitbucket, Jenkins, AWS, Open stack, Chef, Maven, ANT, Tomcat, Cloud computing, Jvm, Jira,Shell/Perl Scripts, Python. LINUX Administrator FedEx - Dallas, TX January 2015 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for installing and configuring Red Hat Linux using Kick Start server.  • Installation and configuration ESX hosts. Making new virtual machines, with Linux Redhat server, making templates, cloning VMs using VMware Virtual Client.  • Created new File systems and Logical Volumes, performed file system management and troubleshooting in Redhat.  • Involved in developing scripts for cloud environment (Red Hat OpenStack).  • Installing Redhat Linux using Kickstart and applying security policies for hardening the server based on the company's policies.  • Configuration of LVM (Logical Volume Manager) to manage volume group, logical and physical partitions and importing new physical volumes.  • Involved in SAN migrations at host level using LVM mirroring and SVM Mirroring.  • RPM and YUM package installations, patch and other server management.  • Managed users, disks, group's administration, File Sharing Permissions, backup and restore operations, and networking service.  • Configuration and installation of DHCP, DNS, web (Apache), mail (SMTP, IMAP, POP3) and file servers on Linux servers.  • Using Puppet code, pinned specific versions of packages to ensure the same version always gets installed so as to control upgrades.  • Setup configured and maintained NFS, NIS, and TCP/IP network, setting up SSH and SCP features between hosts.  • Deployed Servers and helped assemble architecture touching AWS Linux servers, Django/Python  services, MongoDB/PostgresSQL and NGINX  • Provisioned and configured Ubuntu Linux 16.04 LTS servers with Nginx and Proxy load-balancers.  • Lockdown the local accounts to secure the environment using NIS.  • Setup user and group login ID's, password and network configuration.  • Implemented early stages of a continuous integration process based on Jenkins.  • Worked with DBAs on installation of Oracle database.  • Installed and configured Oracle RAC 11g for database purpose.  • Worked and performed data-center operations including rack mounting, cabling.  • Automate configuration through Puppet.  • Responsible for installing, integrating, tuning and troubleshooting Apache, Tomcat, WebSphere and Web logic application server.  • Collaborate on monitoring and troubleshooting Servers using various third party tools like Nagios.  • Deployed latest patches for Linux and Application servers performed Red Hat Linux Kernel Tuning and Performed Servers consolidation and virtualization using VMware virtual infrastructure, VMware ESX, Virtual Center, VM tools.  • Maintenance, performance, tuning and testing of servers for proper functioning.  • Network troubleshooting using 'netstat', 'ifconfig' and Worked closely with vendors on Hardware Problems, software fixes.  • Managing routine backup, scheduling jobs, enabling system logging and network logging.  • Troubleshooting tickets using BMC remedy.  • Developed bash shell scripts to automate routine activities.    Environment: Redhat Linux 5.7/6, VMware, Oracle, Nagios, Fedora 17. Linux Administrator Bank of America - New York, NY January 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities  • Managing UNIX Infrastructure and EMC storage involving maintenance of the servers and troubleshooting problems in the environment.  • Installing operating systems Solaris, Linux and HP according to business requirements.  • Planning and implementing the configuration changes to the servers adhering with ITIL change management process.  • Trouble shooting the issues ranging from Solaris, Linux and SAN environments.  • Created and Maintained Solaris 10 zones/containers.  • Experience in creation and maintenance of ZFS file systems.  • Regularly applying patches both for SUN and Linux systems.  • Installed and Configured Jumpstart and Kickstart Server.  • Working with VERITAS Volume Manager for creating volumes and file systems for various applications and databases.  • Experience in writing shell scripts to automate the administrative tasks and management using cron  • Used Nginx for MicroServices load balancing on dev and local setup.  • Experience with Java Enterprise Application Servers such as IBM Web Sphere, Oracle Application Server.  • OC4J, BEA Web Logic, JBOSS, and Tomcat.  • Creating and maintenance of Virtual machines in VMware ESX.  • Worked on different VMware products like VMware workstation, GSX/VMware server, VMware player.  • VMware Converter and ESX server 3.X.  • Configured, Installed LDAP Solaris and Linux server.  • Connecting to ESX server by using VIC, putty and Web access.  • Installed and configured Send mail on Solaris Linux and AIX servers.  • Experience in working with Hitachi Storage navigator.  • Manages Site minder administrator accounts and users when using the Site minder LDAP repository.  • Migrated central send mail server to Postfix and Installed and Migrated SAP from Linux to Sun servers.  • Involved in SAN migration project to migrate the data across the storage arrays.  • Established end-to-end software development process using shell ontop of BO, including automated builds of Rhapsody models.  • Implemented security policy and managed firewalls/IDS. Managed DNS, send mail, IP space, and co-location facility transition.  • Providing 24/7 on-call support on a rotation basis.  • Assembled, Replaced and Handled Sun, Linux and AIX Hardware problems in Data Center.  • Developed Korn and Bash shell-scripts to automate routine activities.  • Installation and Configuration of Windows Active directory server 2000 and Citrix Servers. Administration  of applications via Citrix MetaFrame.    Environment:SUN E10K, E35000, Hitachi 9980v. Solaris 8/9/10, RHEL 3, ESX 3. solstice disk suite (SDS),SUN UCE, Jboss, Veritas Volume Manager (VxVm), VMware, Veritas Cluster server (VCS) Systems Administrator Virtusa - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2011 to December 2012 Responsibilities  • Installation, Configuration, Upgradation and administration of Sun Solaris, Red Hat Linux.  • User account management and support.  • Jumpstart & Kick-start OS integration, DDNS, DHCP, SMTP, Samba, NFS, FTP, SSH, LDAP integration.  • Network traffic control, IPSec, VLAN, Proxy, Radius integration onCisco Hardware via Red Hat Linux Software.  • Responsible for configuring and managing Squid server in Linux.  • Configuration and Administration of NIS environment.  • Managing file systems and disk management using Solstice Disk suite.  • Involved in Installing and configuring of NFS.  • Package and patch management on Sun servers.  • Kernel tuning, Writing Shell scripts for system maintenance and file management.  • Worked on Solari's volume manager to create file systems as per user and database requirements.  • Trouble shooting the system and end user issues.  • Responsible for configuring real-time backup of web servers.  • Log file was managed for troubleshooting and probable errors.  • Responsible for reviewing all open tickets, resolve and close any existing tickets.  • Document solutions for any issues that have not been discovered previously.  Environment: Sun Solaris 2.6/7, SUN Ultra Enterprise 6000/450, SUN Ultra 10/5/2/1, Windows NT 4.0, RHEL 3.x. Education Bachelor's Skills Apache, Linux, Unix, Application server, C++, Ant, Maven,AWS,Groovy,Jenkins,git, plutora Jira, Crucible Java/J2ee, SVN, GIT,Bitbucket, Jenkins, AWS, Open stack, Chef, Maven, ANT, Tomcat, Cloud computing, Jvm, Jira,Shell/Perl Scripts, Python (7 years)