Information Security Intern Information Security Intern Information Systems Security Officer - United States Air Force Stafford, VA United States Air Force Veteran and cyber security professional with 6 years of cyber security & 3 years of management experience. Skilled, innovative, driven leader and team member who takes initiative on projects whether large or small. Committed to mentoring and developing the future leaders of cyber security and other industries. Willing to learn new skills and techniques to better assist team members, provide better productivity to management, and further cyber defense and management skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Security Intern Aireon, LLC - Tysons, VA July 2019 to Present - Responsible for securing satellite data for Aireon, LLC in the Aviation and Aerospace Industry.   - Assists the Information Security Architect and Information Security Manager in developing and maintaining cyber security policies in accordance with NIST 800-53.   - Provides recommendations to improve the cyber security posture within the Aviation & Aerospace environment.   - Coordinates with the Information Security Architect to develop and configure log analysis, log centralization, and SIEM solution utilizing the ELK/Elastic Stack.  - Secures third party access to data resources by monitoring physical security controls and maintaining access badges  - Develops Bash scripts to automate tasks Information Systems Security Officer United States Air Force - Offutt AFB, NE June 2016 to Present - Provided guidance on integrating, upgrading, and securing National Security Agency networks critical to the national Intelligence Community and the United States Strategic Command mission capabilities.   - Directs network operations for Red Hat Enterprise Linux systems that provided Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance data for the National Security Agency, Air Combatant Command, & Geographic Combatant Command.   - Supervises three administrators in maintaining $20 million National Security Agency (NSA) network responsible for delivering Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance data to three Air Force organizations.   - Maintained policies/directives & the Red Hat Enterprise Linux network platform which secured the Air Force's authority to operate on the National Security Agency's (NSA) network.    Key Accomplishments  - Showcased Intelligence, Surveillance, & Reconnaissance capabilities by briefing senior management on Red Hat systems. Secured funding for system upgrades.  - Managed project for National Security Agency (NSA) directed network upgrade. Updated critical network assets which solidified Intelligence Community compliance.   - Repaired a Linux system application responsible for publishing an average 83 thousand radio frequency signals yearly. The repair boosted the frequency output by 14% and surpassed United States Air Force Pacific Command intelligence requirements for 34 nations.  - Inventoried classified account IT account holding 243 critical assets. Identified & resolved 35 discrepancies. Reconciled $50 million account.  - Engineered an Intelligence Community toolkit solution. Revamped legacy software & developed Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) installation blueprint. Nominated for company Information Dominance Award.  - Identified server room structural failure. Mitigated roof leak, protected National Security Agency (NSA) network assets, led the fix action efforts. Saved critical assets worth $119 thousand  - Engineered secure Linux LDAP directory server. Configured & secured classified equipment for Intelligence community. Streamlined administration duties saving man hours. Lead Cyber Security Administrator United States Air Force December 2013 to June 2016 - Provided network security for enterprise network of over 22 thousand personnel.   - Utilized McAfee's Host Based System Security (HBSS) suite to safeguard the enterprise network and provided network & system administration. Ensured 24/7 continuous operations enterprise wide.   - Maintained Information Technology Equipment Custodian program for Tactical Local Area Network Encryptors (TACLANE).   - Maintained multiple network switches and routers for the enterprise network environment. Engineered technical solutions for the Unit Level Command & Control and Defense Information System Agency (DISA) systems.  Key Accomplishments  - Led a team of 10 members to build a local area network for the United States Air Forces in Europe Air Traffic Control Center. Configured 200 nodes in approximately 90 minutes. Successfully established a control center for organization planning group. Awarded a letter of appreciation from the company director.  - Lead the distribution project of communications security assets by reallocating $440 thousand worth of equipment. This ultimately increased the Unit Level Command & Control backend network support by 200%.  - Revamped the cataloguing process for classified network assets which reinforced the Command & Control Asset Management process and secured a $985 thousand account.  - Secured a total 800 classified switch ports and successfully completed a network infrastructure lock-down which deterred intrusion vulnerabilities of $2 million Command & Control devices  - Led a team in a project to reconfigure 180 classified & unclassified network devices and 300 user accounts in a service pack install for Unit Level Command & Control systems. Upgraded three base organization networks in 3 days vs 14 days.  - Coordinated the Installation Control Center overhaul project. Led a team of 5 members to re-image and configure 40 workstations, 3 switches, & 9 VOSIPs (Voice over Secure Internet Protocol). The completion of this project modernized the Command and Control capabilities for 3 base organizations  - Selected to lead project to revitalize 27 network control centers. Overhauled 59 computers & network devices. Successfully restored crisis intelligence for the base command post  - Saved 10 GB of classified email data by removing malicious e-mails for Airlift company. This ultimately secured the base airports classified data.  - Revamped operations tracking by creating 36 classified & unclassified server rack diagrams for 391 servers. These diagrams were key to senior management's operations planning process.  - Led a team of 7 members to contain a cooling system equipment failure for the base server room. Containing the disaster restored a $42.5 million server network center and ensured secure operations for the base enterprise network. Education Bachelor of Science in Cyber Security and Information Assurance Western Governors University August 2019 Bachelor of Science in Management Information Systems Virginia State University 2013 Skills Linux (3 years), Information Security (6 years), HBSS (Host Based Systems Security) (3 years), Active Directory (6 years), TCP/IP (3 years), Cissp, Military, Cybersecurity, Comptia, Cyber Security, Information Assurance, Network Security, Siem, Nist, It Security Certifications/Licenses Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) August 2018 to August 2021 Certified Encryption Specialist (CES) Systems Security Certified Professional (SSCP) Web Security Associate (WSA) CompTIA Security+ CompTIA Network+ CompTIA Project+ CompTIA A+ Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) March 2019