Sr. Systems Admin Sr. <span class="hl">Systems</span> Admin Sr. Systems Admin - Verizon Irvine, CA • Over 6+ years of experience in providing IT infrastructure solutions on technologies like Office 365, MS Exchange, System Center Configuration Manager, Active Directory, VMware, Hyper-V, Windows Server, storage administration.  • Experience with multiple Microsoft products including Exchange 2013, 2010, 2007, 2003, Office 365, Lync, Skype for Business, and Microsoft Office Suite, Hybrid Exchange, Outlook Web Access (OWA), Active Sync, email queue.  • Extensive experience in configuring and managing. Troubleshooting Physical, Virtual infrastructure in Cloud and On Premise on Windows server, Active Directory, Networking, Storage, VMware, Hyper -V, AWS Cloud, Microsoft Azure (IAAS, PAAS, SAAS), MS Exchange, Office 365, Power Shell scripting, and Power Shell.  • Verified user functionality and access to services via Outlook, OWA, and Outlook anywhere and assisted in resolving any issues.  • Experienced in installing, configuring and administration of a broad range of Microsoft tools/technology including: Windows Server 2003/2008/2012r2, Exchange Server 2013, 2010, 2007, 2003, Lync 2010/2013, SharePoint & windows clustering.  • Implemented and administered Windows Server 2012 R2 Active Directory Environment for the Entire Organization from the ground up using old and new hardware.  • Administered & implemented DNS, DHCP, DFS, WINS, FILE & PRINT SERVER, IIS, FTP, terminal server and MS exchange mail server. Created and managed user and group accounts in User Manager and in MS Exchange Administration.  • Experience in Design and Implementation of VMware ESXi 5.0 & 5.5 and Hyper-V Virtualization Environments.  • Experience in managing a large Microsoft Server environment with Systems Center Configuration Management (SCCM) & System Center Operations Management (SCOM).  • Administer and specialize in Microsoft SCCM capabilities to ensure large enterprise network patch management, distribution, and compliance functions  • Install and configure users with VPN access & remote access Experience with System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM). Patching updates/ Application Inventory/ deploying software etc.  • Creates SCCM management reports as required to support daily operations and staff tasks on the state of the information technology enterprise  • Participates in development, testing and successful deployment of software to all applicable SCCM supported platforms deployed using SCCM and Windows Installer technologies  • Hands on experience of changing over Servers from physical to virtual (P2V) and virtual to virtual (V2V) by utilizing VMware, PlateSpin.  • Administered the Domain Name Server (DNS). The AD Integrated-DNS, and the operation of the directory service is based on a properly functioning dynamic DNS infrastructure.  • Windows Patch Management through Software Update Services.  • Vast experience in troubleshooting and resolving both client and server end issues.  • Migration of Windows 2008 Domain Controllers to Windows 2012 R2 Domain Controllers.  • Expert in overseeing exchange 2013 servers and investigating issues related to Clients and group accounts, mail delivery, configuring MX records to enable/disable domain.  • Experienced in managing Group policies, user accounts & configuring sites in a multi-site domain structure.  • Creating and Maintaining Active Directory for creating Users and Groups.  • Administered user and group accounts. This includes user password resets, user creation and deactivation, user and group recovery from accidental deletion, user group creation, and membership management.  • Performance monitoring, Error logging, Diagnostics, Fine-tuning and Backup management.  • Experienced in working with PowerShell scripts to automate admin tasks.  • Research, Design, Install, Configure, Test, all Microsoft server-based solutions to proactively support business requirements.  • Documented and tracked all peripherals and network problems using SharePoint 2010 and Action Remedy.  • Documented and tracked all peripherals and Network problems using Care360/ E-forms Ticketing System SharePoint 2010, Action Remedy Ticketing System in a 24 X 7 Enterprise Data Center Environment.  • Skilled at the installation and configuration of hardware and software components of networking environments including Cisco routers and switches, firewalls and VPNs.  • Participate in the verification of DNS and Exchange 2010 systems and made changes to infrastructure to better suite migration effort.  • Hands-on experience on incident management and prioritizing tickets on problem resolutions.  • Experience in handling multi data center environment and remote hands support.  • Worked on Remedy Change management, Request management and Incident tickets.  • Expertise in working with Microsoft InfoPath Designer to create dynamic custom electronic forms and integrate with SharePoint applications.  • Provide daily technical support and 24X7 on-call support. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Systems Admin Verizon - Irving, TX July 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  * Part of Level 3 team, managing 120 hosts and 5000 virtual machines and 10+vCenters. VMware/vSphere Hypervisor Infrastructure Upgrade project -Lead the team technically in migrating from VMware 5.x to VMware vSphere 6.0.  * Performed VMWARE ESX 5.5 to 6.0 Servers Installation, Configuration & Administration.  * Troubleshooting issues related to Virtual Machine V-Motion, snapshots, clones, templates.  * Proficient in designing, developing Web Services API (SDK-language binding) that allowed integration, automation and custom solutions leveraging data protection capabilities of Hitachi V2I in Hitachi Storage Connector for vRealize Orchestrator  * Used PowerCLI commands to automate the VM deployment process, managing ESX hosts and V-Center.  * Perform logical switching, dynamic and logical routing with the NSX server along with vRealize automation along with Routing protocols like BGP and OSPF.  * Worked with SCCM client and installed various software packages, to include- imaging, re-imaging Desktop & Laptops, administrating Land Desk Management, My Apps and pushing software application  * Developed PowerShell/PowerCLI scripts as a part of every day's requirements.  * Configured NetScaler Content Switch rule for ShareFile integration for SSO and integration with virtual apps and desktops for optimized on-demand, on or off-premises data sharing and sync service meeting the mobility and collaboration needs of users and the data security requirements of the enterprise.  * Administration of VMware ESX, ESXi Servers using vCenter Server, experienced with VCenter operations manager (VCOP's).  * Provided system support in all aspects of Amgen's Skype for Business/Lync migration project including but not limited to en masse account migration, voice mail setup, route, voice policy and Lync control panel trunk configuration creation/manipulation.  * integration of Nutanix Prism with in-house DNS, CA (SSL certificates), NTP, vSphere, and monitoring systems.  * Installation of Active Directory Federation Services on Windows 2012 R2 Servers  * Lead and coordinated ability to secure network traffic by researching, analyzing, and modifying firewall rules as part of corporate restructuring to return firewall management to internal operations from third party provider.  * Configured to provide an integrated solution of LDAP (Directory) Services, and data backups  * Designing of vSphere for implementation of vCloud infrastructure.  * Performed VSphere Replication using Site Recovery Manager5.0 (SRM 5.0) for backup in case of disaster.  * Managed VMware ESX (i) hosts using vSphere client and Web client.  * Handled the VMware solutions to support storage connectivity options such as FC-SAN, iSCSI, NFS (NAS).  * Implemented VMware Horizon View and VMware VSAN for a VDI solution for remote workers and developers.  * Worked on V-realize automation in dealing with activities like migration of Operating Systems and Deployment activities.  * Worked with V-realize Operations Manager administrator on capacity planning created and reserved VM's in a datacenter for an upcoming project.  * Implemented Disaster Recovery Plan for Virtualization Infrastructure in the Event of Power Failure.  * Responsible for support, maintenance and troubleshoot of VDI Infrastructure for multiple domain of the organization using VMware View Technology.  * Assisted with business justification documents for firewalls and provided suggestions to ensure PCI compliance  * Working with Windows 10 upgraded project; by user requirements package, imaging and re-imaging, ODS (Operating System Deployment). OS Deployment Windows 10, Deployment Form, MDT Image Tools, USMT. Working with SCCM ( System Center Configuration Manager) Client Install and push application.  * Create VDI's from template, manage and configure VDI template as per the client requirement.  * Used Monitor Tool for unified capacity planning monitoring and management across Windows, Linux, Virtual (VMware, Hyper-V, Xen).  * Performing VDI migration via developed process workflow - VMware View 5.1 to Horizon 6.2.  * Work extensively with Outlook/SFB-Lync integration issues including being solely responsible for resolving intricate delegation issues between executives and their support staff.  * Configured NetScaler VPX to host Exchange CAS server, formally hosted on MS TMG.  * Routinely evaluate VDI system for performance optimizations and capacity planning.  * Performed Data store migration using VMware storage vMotion on NetApp's NFS, dell ISCSI SAN Storage.  * Integration of vCloud Director with vShield and vCenter.  * Secured network traffic by examining firewall rules for unencrypted transmissions, blocking vulnerable ports under guise of best practices, reconfirming permitted traffic was from authorized sources and destinations, and identifying unauthorized applications transmitting traffic.  * Installed, configured, administered Windows 2008, 12 servers, Active Directory Services, FTP, WSUS, IIS Web Server & SQL Database Server (2008  * Responsible for using Power CLI and Power shell scripts for better management and health checks of vSphere environments.  * Implemented a FTP infrastructure that uses LDAP for authentication and supports virtual domains. Created custom LDAP schema to support infrastructure.  * Evaluation, Design, POC planning for HCI implementation (Nutanix on UCS)  * Performed P2V migration for approximately 100 physical servers using VMware converter.  * LDAP directory and email migration. Created and documented migration plan.  * Active Directory, GPO and Security evaluation and management.  * Configured Azure Virtual Networks (VNets), subnets, Azure network settings, DHCP address blocks, DNS settings, security policies  * Deployed Azure IaaS virtual machines (VMs) and Cloud services (PaaS role instances) into secure VNets and subnets.  * Designed VNets and subscriptions to confirm to Azure Network Limits.  * Coordination with Microsoft Azure team and App team to migrate existing application to Azure Cloud. Setup Azure Cloud Infra, Cloud services for smooth migration.    Environment: ESXi 6.5/6.0, VB Script, Office 365, Windows2008 R2, 2012 R2,2016, HPUX, WebSphere EMC VNX, VMAX, Linux, Apache Tomcat, EMC Avamar, Skype, VB Script, HPSA, Virtualization (Hyper-V, VMware), Dell Blade Servers, Dell Open Manager, vCOPS. Office 365 Admin Toyota Inc - Torrance, CA August 2015 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  * Help migrate Microsoft clients from Exchange-Premises over to Office365 while moving public folders and configuring local relays for faster connectivity. Creating accounts and delegating mailbox configuration.  * Used Exchange Server Profile Analyzer to understand the current environment.  * Cleaned up Active Directory user objects with inconsistencies that prevented them from synchronizing through DirSync to Office 365.  * Managing Dir Sync between Exchange on premise to Exchange online.  * Troubleshooting various mail flow and message tracking solutions using Office-365 ECP and server 2010 ECP Administrator console.  * Export eDiscovery search results to a PST file.  * Administration and management of Mailboxes and troubleshooting Exchange components (Exchange Database, Outlook Web Access, Offline Address List, Mail Flow, Public Folders, Free/Busy Information).  * Setup and maintained Microsoft Office 365 (SharePoint Online, Exchange Online).  * Migrated 45,000 e-mail accounts from Rackspace Hosting Services to Microsoft Office 365 Exchange Online.  * Created user mailboxes via PowerShell and utilized move commands to relocate accounts to Office 365.  * Hands-on experience in backup applications like Tivoli and Net backup and the various methods about backing and restoring Exchange Database and configurations.  * Utilized ActiveSync for configuration of mobile messaging services.  * Troubleshot issues with Microsoft Office Communicator (2007) and performed testing for migrations to Lync 2010.  * Troubleshot issues with public folder access and delegates.  * Hands on experience in the implementation of Skype for Business 2015 for IM, Voice, Video, and collaboration services.  * Used built in Exchange migration tools to move data from on premise into Office 365 environment.  * Worked on and managed Operating System upgrades within the environment from Windows Server 2003 to Windows Server 2008.  * Assist with on Premises Exchange Server, Azure AD, DirSync and Federation configurations.  * Provided Active Directory Management and Support.  * Delivered assistance to the level 1 and level 2 help desk techs when trouble tickets are escalated to Tier 3 and Tier 4 which included hardware software break fix, in depth research to resolve issues, upgrading servers.  * Deploying and managing Enterprise Voice for Lync 2010/ Lync 2013/Skype for Business.  * Manage clustered servers, user accounts, storage groups, and setup policies.  * Monitored, managed and troubleshoot using tools such as Performance Monitor logs, event viewer, MMC, exchange management shell, PowerShell, message tracking tool, regsvr32, regedit, regedt32.  * Documented and tracked all peripherals and network problems using SharePoint 2010 and Action Remedy.  * Documented and tracked all peripherals and Network problems using Care360/ E-forms Ticketing System SharePoint 2010, Action Remedy Ticketing System in a 24 X 7 Enterprise Data Center Environment.    Environment: Exchange server 2007/2010, SharePoint, Office 365, Windows Server 2003/2008 R2, Microsoft Exchange server 2007/2010, Lync 2010, Azure Directory, Active Directory,eDiscovery,Skype for Business, ActiveSync, Security and distribution groups, ESXi. Systems Administrator Bank of Oklahoma - Tulsa, OK October 2013 to July 2015 Description: Implementing and managing the on-premises and Office 365 exchange environment. Managed the Active directory with Synchronization to Office 365 cloud environment. Backup the Entire Exchange Network and Active directory. Troubleshooting the Outlook, OWA, Outlook Anywhere Issues. Migrating the Physical Environment to Virtual to Cloud Environment. Maintaining the Windows Servers by continuously monitoring and troubleshooting issues related to servers.    Responsibilities:  * Hands on experience with Office Pro Plus 365 portals, created/deleted users, white listed email Addresses, delegated permissions, configured email client with office 365 email address, configured mobile phones with email clients, shared calendars and troubleshoot issues related to sharing, experience with Office 365 Pro Plus troubleshooting issues.  * Experience with Exchange online and Skype for Business Online.  * Used Exchange Server Profile Analyzer to understand the current environment.  * Managed and configured Microsoft's Office 365 Azure active directory so that it was properly synchronized with the on premise Active Directory environment.  * Experience with Microsoft Exchange server 2007/2010.  * Excellent knowledge of Administrator Exchange environment.  * Creating and deploying of Operating System template images using VMware Infrastructure client.  * Creating of standard Virtual Machines and templates for VMware ESX, VMs, and Cloning.  * Creating snapshots, P2V Migration, Configuring Data stores in case of space constraints.  * Performance monitoring on the overall utilization of the cluster. Experience in implementation of Office Enterprise 365 E1, E3, E4 and E5.  * Hands on experience installing, configuring, troubleshooting ESXi  * Managing day to day operations related to ESXi/Virtual center.  * Experience in the administration of Windows 2008/2012 server.  * Implemented various Backup & Restore mechanisms using PowerShell and STSADM command utility  * Hands on experience PowerShell scripting to migrate existing data for new 3rd party tool.  * Knowledge in designing and implementing of Active Directory and Network Fundamentals Protocols such as TCP/IP, DNS and Group Policy.  * Create user accounts, assign group rights, create distribution lists, maintain windows folder security, create group policies etc.  * Troubleshoot server issues, participate in server builds & raid array configuration.  * Maintaining virus protection, OS & service packs, general operations, and providing backup and disaster recovery.  * Manage and troubleshoot Lightweight Directory Access Protocol authentication for applications.  * Configure and troubleshoot AD smart card authentication.  * Pinpoint and diagnose directory problems using in-depth troubleshooting diagnostics available to domain administrators.  * Respond to AD DS data calls from auditors.  * Administered user and group accounts. This includes user password resets, user creation and deactivation, user and group recovery from accidental deletion, user group creation, and membership management.  * Administered the Domain Name Server (DNS). The DNS is tied to the directory, and the operation of the directory service is based on a properly functioning dynamic DNS infrastructure.  * Virus sweeps using ESET Antivirus, ESET Smart Security, AVG, malware bytes, cc cleaner etc.  * Install and configure users with VPN access & remote access Experience with System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM). Patching updates/ Application Inventory/ deploying software etc.  * Oversaw Tag/ Designed phase liaison between IT & business customer.  * Create and Maintain documentation for AD, Exchange, Air Watch and Other IT procedures.  * Configure and secure all personal and corporate mobile devices for enterprise mail using AirWatch Mobile Device Management system.  * Revamping Air watch console by removing devices that have been inactive for 30+ days, maximizing access to resources and accelerating work efficiency  * Ability to move mailboxes between Air watch on cloud to Air watch on premise.    Environment: Exchange server 2010, Office 365, Windows Server 2008 r2 /2012 r2, Microsoft Exchange server 2007/2010 Hybrid, Azure Directory, Active Directory, Lync 2010/2013, Skype for Business, DNS, outlook, Air watch, P2V migration, IMAP, VMware, PowerShell scripts. windows/Vmware Engineer La Care - Los Angeles, CA November 2012 to September 2013 Description: Designed and implemented ESX server infrastructure environment. Administrated server consolidation program through use of VMware ESX server and VMware Virtual Center, creating VMs, using/building VM templates and customization files, and scheduling tasks    Responsibilities:  * Experience in implementing ESX/ESXi servers with efficient virtualization strategies by creating clones, templates, task scheduling, prioritizing VMs, creating and managing snap shots.  * Migration of virtual machines from ESXi 5.0 to ESXi 5.5.  * Implementation of different Host Profiles for Multiple Clusters across Multiple Data centers.  * Administering rights for Users and Groups for Virtual Center access.  * Patching servers via WSUS where in cluster servers need to be failed over to the passive nodes for patching servers within a time window.  * Configure and troubleshoot backup jobs, perform file and full server restores using Symantec's Net back up.  * Publishing Applications on Citrix Consoles and managing with security permissions.  * Configuring SRM site pairing and installing storage replication adapters.  * Responsible for conducting vulnerability scanning and identify system and network vulnerabilities.  * Able to create and setup virtual machines using VMware 5.5.  * Provide day-to-day administration and support services in a Citrix and VMware vSphere hosted environment.  * Working on VROPS checking the performance & utilization for 90 days period for each individual VM.  * Took support of VROPS tools to dig into the errors and resolve the issue in precise fashion. It's helpful in providing the LUN number for the Storage department instead of logging into the console and previewing it.  * Install and configure of vRealize Automation, Application Services, vRealize Orchestrator.  * SCOM management packs & SCOM monitoring issue fixes.  * Installing, configuring and administering Windows 2008/2012 R2 servers and perform Patch Management.  * Provide project support by configuring DNS, DHCP, GPO's and Active Directory changes and implementations as needed.  * Added and removed server roles and features; configured AD Domain Services roles.  * Update patches on Servers Working Experience with Active Directory Components (AD Users and Computers, DNS, DHCP and WINS).  * Resolved Active Directory, Print Server and Citrix Access issues, User account creations in Active Directory and providing permissions to Shared Project Drives & creation of Roaming Profile Drives.  * File and Print Server migration from physical to VMware virtual environment.  * Performed inventory of existing server environment and gather server utilization statistics such as CPU, disk usage and Alert Management.  * Server Performance tuning and troubleshoot the application and server side issues.  * Resolving tickets (User access to VMs) in Service Now and Tech Excel and coordinating with offshore team.  * Created remediation tickets for concerned teams depending upon the severity of the vulnerabilities found..    Environment: VMware ESXi, Windows Server 2008/2012, Windows 8.1/7/ XP, SCCM, SCOM, Microsoft Exchange Server 2007/2010, Domain Name Servers (DNS), vROPS, Internet Information Services (IIS), PowerShell, Symantec Net Backup Windows/ VMware Admin PEPSICO/HCL - Frisco, TX January 2010 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  * Deployed ESXi 5.1 and Windows 2012R2 on new HP ProLiant DL 380 G8 servers.  * Played a key role in Datacenter Consolidation at Lake Forest by converting the Physicals to VM's and decommission-ing the old Physicals.  * Designed the SOP document for best practices of migration from ESX 3.5 environment to ESX 5.1 Environment.  * Performed the P2V, V2V and P2P for the Windows Machines using SCVMM 2012 in the Hyper-V Environment and From ESXi 5.1 Environment to Hyper-V Environment.  * Planned and executed the migration of VM's from EMC Clarion to EMC VNX using the EMC recovery point.  * Knowledge on how the storage processors work (A and B), Connection of storage processors to the Drive Arrays, Zoning, Masking and MDS switches.  * Used SCCM 2012 to push the File, Print and SCEP anti-virus (Replaced MacAfee) on to 2000 user desktops.  * Migration of Citrix 4.5 farm to XenApp 6.5, Installing and configuring the Citrix PS 4.5 component.  * Enabling Zone Data Collector & Web Interface server in Citrix Infrastructure Server.  * Responsible for the implementation of VMware View VDI upgrades, Change Management, Problem Management,and ITIL related process.  * Responsible for using Power CLI and Power shell scripts for better management of VSphere and VDI environments.  * Performing VDI migration via developed process workflow - VMware View 5.2 to Horizon 6.0.  * Installed and configured VMware vRealize Operations(vRops) Manager, generated day to day reports to monitor and manage the performance of virtual environment.  * Upgraded from View 5.x to Horizon view 6.0, Implemented and supported Horizon view 6.0 for VDI (virtual desktop infrastructure) project.  * Responsible for Configuration and Maintenance of VMware 5.5 Hosts for Horizon View environments.  * Worked with the database optimization, Performance tuning and index tuning for optimization of queries.  * Implemented trigger and stored procedures and enforced business rules via checks and constraints.  * Creating and managing databases, schema objects such as tables, views, indexes, procedures, triggers and DB constra-ints to meet business requirements and policies and maintained referential Integrity.  * Install hotfixes on XenApp 6.5 Citrix Servers.  * Configuring the Citrix Farm for session to set Disconnect, Idle and active session limits.  * Automated routine tasks using scripting language such as PowerShell and PowerShellCLI.  * Played a key role in design & implementation of the Cisco UCS B230 M2 /B200 M3 blades, in datacenter Infrastructure build outs of HP rack mount servers and Cisco UCS Blade Servers.  * Designed the Custom Dashboards for monitoring the Data stores, ESX Hosts and virtual machines using different Widgets Like Heat Maps, Metric graphs, Root Cause Ranking and also using Super metrics.  * Designing and executing the Phase by phase migration plans and performing upgrades from vCOps 5.0.3 to 5.7 with negligible downtime.  * Hands on experience in upgrading hosts from 4.1 to 5.1, Vcenter 4.1 to Vcenter 5.1 and the Single Sign On feature (SSO).  * Designed and Implemented the VMware Site recovery Manager (SRM) 5.1 in the Datacenter as a team.  * Generated the ROI/TCO reports using the VMware ROI/TCO Calculator.  * Intensive working with Windows WSUS, Patch Management, and Windows/Linux OS build outs.  * Played an active role in the implementation of the vCloud Director 5.1 based on Allocation Pool (Allocation Pool/Pay-As-You-Go/Reservation Pool) for the Organization vDC.  * Participating in alternate change/Release Weekends.  * Extensive knowledge and work on Configuring the Vcenter Operations Operation Manager 5.0 which can manage the health of the Whole environment including Datacenters Hosts, Vm's, data stores.  * Implementing and installing the Vmware View (VDI), creating a base image (replica) for desktops and spinning the number of required desktops for Users. Pushing the updates to the base image and rolling them to the existing desktops and for the new desktops.  * Worked extensively on live migrations Using VMware Converter / Double Take by taking minimum downtime for P2V andV2V Migrations.  * Participated in patch Management and upgrades of the infrastructure.  * Migrated the VM's using the SAN to SAN replication using Recovery point.  * Configuring the Windows clustering and SQL clustering in the VMware environment.  * Expert in Building the virtual machines in the DMZ zone with the Load Balancers that are required depending on the applications that are accessed by the outside world from different places by different users.    Environment: vCenter server5.1, vCenter Operations Manager5.0/5.0.3/5.7, vCenter Infrastructure Navigator, PowerShell, Plate Spin, Windows2000/2003/2008 server, VMware ESX 4.0/4.1 & 5.0, vCloud Director 5.0, Cisco UCS B200 M3, VMware Converter, vCenter Operations Manager 5.0, VMware View (VDI), NetApp filers, Citrix server and Capacity planning using vCops. Education Bachelor's Skills Active Directory (5 years), Exchange (5 years), Hyper-V (4 years), scripting (4 years), VMware (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Server Operating Systems Windows Server 2003/2008 R2, 2012 R2  Messaging Environment Lync 2010/2013, Exchange 2003, 2007, 2010, 2013 and Office 365  System Management Tools vCenter, SCCM, SCOM  Operating Systems Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8.1, 10, Apple Mac OS  Virtualization Tools VMware vSphere ESXi, Hyper-V  Cloud AWS, Office 365, Microsoft Azure  Network Servers Active Directory, DNS, DHCP  File Servers DFS, FTP, Windows SharePoint  Protocols SMTP, POP3, IMAP, DHCP, TCP/IP, HTTP, STP, RSTP, FTP, IMAP  Active Directory  Design, Configuration& Troubleshooting, AD certificate services, AD federation services, AD right management services    Scripting PowerShell