Systems Support Analyst <span class="hl">Systems</span> Support Analyst Gilbert, AZ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Support Analyst Onni Group - Phoenix, AZ January 2019 to Present ? Trains staff members on business systems and operations by hosting online webinar based training,  phone training & in-person training  ? Manages and develops Learning Management Systems (LMS) to ensure all users are completing training modules as developed by deadlines. Communicates training progress with supervisors and HR team.  ? Manages help desk ticketing system and email tickets to assist end-users with trouble issues or  knowledge requests. Systems used include: Yardi Voyager and YRS, CRM, Rentcafe, Connectwise,  Freshdesk, Isolved HCM, ELearning, Kaseya, Bluemoon, Bright Gauge, Workspeed, Salesforce, and Angus.  ? Assist with system upgrades, implementations, and maintenance's when required.  ? Continuously stay up to date with systems changes and updates to ensure knowledge of business systems.   ? Preforms general support for staff (onsite and offsite) laptops, computers, ipads, and cell phones. This includes but is not limited to setting up user profiles, antivirus software, running updates, RAM upgrades, and more. Lease Administrator Progress Residential - Scottsdale, AZ May 2016 to January 2019 Lease / Contracts Admin | 35,000 + Home Portfolio  ? On a team that is tasked with drafting, proofing and sending out all legally binding leases, lease renewals, and contracts between tenants and our management company  ? Responsible for record-keeping, data entry, auditing and reporting  ? Helped to create and implement new resident services policies, insurance program, and rental verification program  ? Responsible for managing and oversight of rental insurance program of 35,000 + homes and verification processes for past tenants.  • On teams that consults and troubleshoots our online databases (yardi, rent cafe, salesforce, docusign) to increase efficiency and decrease technical issues  • Help out on support tickets to ensure issues are resolved in a timely fashion. Leasing/Marketing Manager Apache Station - Tempe, AZ June 2014 to July 2016 400 Units / 658 Bed Spaces  • Promoted to property Leasing Manager in June 2015 in recognition of outstanding performance  • Manage all aspects of leasing and marketing activities including oversight of 6 onsite leasing associates  • Responsible for record-keeping, data entry, auditing and reporting to the corporate office  • Create and implement all marketing & social media activities related to leasing operations  • Responsible for the design and implementation of new policies and trainings to run more efficiently  • Troubleshoot issues related to Bluemoon, yardi, package log Leasing Agent Apache Station - Tempe, AZ September 2014 to June 2015 • Meet with potential tenants; conduct individual and group property tours  • Interact with existing residents to answer questions and solve issues as necessary  • Complete, scan & file all required paperwork; perform appropriate quality control reviews  • Answer incoming calls as needed and respond to potential leasing prospects Casework Intern U.S. Senator John McCain - Phoenix, AZ January 2014 to May 2014 • Research and analyze issues related to inquiries and requests from constituents  • Coordinate with local, state & federal agencies in the U.S. and abroad  • Monitor political and world affairs for noteworthy or significant items  • Prepare related reports for the Senator's senior staff Community Assistant University House - Tempe, AZ August 2013 to May 2014 • Staff community customer service desk  • Respond to tenant and prospective tenant inquiries  • Manage leasing activities Education Bachelor of Science in Political Science Arizona State University - Tempe, AZ 2015 Skills Graphic Design (4 years), Microsoft Office Suite (10+ years), Research (4 years), Data Entry (2 years), Social Media Marketing (3 years), Yardi (6 years), Salesforce (3 years), R and R Studio (Less than 1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/pub/lance-navin/57/71a/a79 Certifications/Licenses CPR/First Aid/AED November 2016 International Studies May 2015 to Present Minored in U.S. History while also receiving a Certificate in International Studies from ASU. Additional Information LEADERSHIP AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS    • Organizer, Founding Father & First President of Delta Tau Chapter of Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity at ASU  • Organization & Chartering approvals obtain in less than 24 months – fastest in recent fraternity history  • Developed & managed $150,000 annual budget  • Conceived, organized & participated in over 270 hours of community service projects    ASU Rugby Team| Former Team Captain and Three Year Starting Player  • Assist youth rugby teams develop fundamentals, referee youth rugby tournaments hosted at ASU    • College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Academic Dean’s List