Storage Engineer Storage Engineer Storage Engineer - End Client Macungie, PA • 6+ years of IT experience primarily as EMC/NetApp NAS Engineer specializing in Data storage management, with also extensive experience with Unix/Wintel System administration.  • Experience with design, configuration and administration of EMC Isilon, EMC VNX, Unity, Pure System and NetApp Filers.  • Knowledge of protocols such as NFS, SMB, REST, iSCSI.  • Very good understanding of Isilon and NetApp hardware architecture and its different tools from various vendors EMC Isilon - SmartConnect, Smart Fail, SmartPools/Zones, SyncIQ, SmartQuota, SnapShotIQ, SmartLock, InsightIQ and NetApp - SnapMirror, SnapVault, Oncommand Manager, FilerView, OCI, OnCommand Insight.  • Experiences in managing SmartQuotas, SyncIQ, Snapshots, Deduplication on various versions of Isilon Clusters.  • Network Appliance (NetApp) DATA ONTAP, SnapMirror replication, storage planning, data management, and disaster recovery planning best practices and testing. Installation and configuration of NetApp hardware and software products.  • Experienced in performing OneFS upgrade on ISILON.  • VNX, NFS/CIFS shares administration, VNX replication, Checkpoints.  • Experienced in migrating data between different NAS arrays using a wide range of Migration Tools (SyncIQ, robocopy, isi_vol_copy, rsync, snapmirror, XCP, Datadobi).  • Prepare operational procedures and technical documentation of all NAS related projects and change management.  • Configuring replications in DR site.  • Good Experience in handling and providing support to customer in achieving the desired goals.  • Good Experience in adapting to respective Company Standards in Quick time.  • Expertise in Handling Tickets raised by Customers teams.  • Good Experience with best Practices that helps Company in Fixing issues and avoid security breaches.  • NetApp Cluster mode ONTAP8.3  • Extensive experience on configuring storage devices on UNIX machines primarily on Windows, Sun Solaris, Red Hat Linux and HP-UX Machines.  • Experience with Storage Area Networking (SAN) and Network Attached Storage (NAS) storage and their operation (Fiber Channel switches, RAID disk subsystems and networking devices).  • Well versed with ITIL process.  • On call support for SAN and NAS environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Storage Engineer End Client - Allentown, PA March 2016 to Present Environment: EMC Isilon X410, S210, NL400, OneFS, SyncIQ, InsightIQ NetApp 7 Mode FAS6080, NetApp Clustered Data OnTap 8.1, EMC VNX, Snapmirror, On Command Manager, Sun Solaris, Red Hat Linux, InsightIQ for Isilon.  • Administer and maintain day-to-day operational support, implementations and periodic hardware and software maintenance. HW/OS installs/upgrades, Performance analysis, tuning and management, Configuring data storage On Isilon Cluster with 7.x and 8.x using CLI and Web GUI.  • Data Migration in PB using isi_vol_copy from Netapp to isilon and syncIQ from isilon to isilon.  • Leading the migration team for storage and backup technology. Working on planning, designing and implementing storage and backup infrastructure of two new data center.  • Consolidated in 2 Data Center moves to a Co-Location consisting of 15 Isilons and 10 Netapps.  • Created a script and added to crontab on cluster that runs log gathers, checks synciq backups, dedupe and other essential daily activities.  • Performed creation on Quotas on NFS and SMB Shares.  • As part of the Buss/Apps storage, I was handling Pure Storage (All flash array), a block-based storage for high performance to meet the Database requirements and ScaleIO storage for VMs.  • Performed Node reboot when the Isilon clusters have BMC/CMC issues.  • Performed Rolling Upgrade on source and Target ISILON clusters from 7.1.1.2 to 7.2.1.2 and further to 8.0.0.4 and various other versions which includes current version of 8.0.0.6.  • Have experience in managing clusters which are Gen5 and Gen6 (High performance isilon clusters).  • Experienced in installing patches and Upgrading Node and Drive Firmware.  • Installation, monitoring, administration of Veritas Netbackup servers. Implementation of Oracle, SQL and VMware backups. Implementation of vaulting and SLPs for duplication.  • Designed and architected storage networks, backup environments and replication to meet customers' business requirements  • Work with storage requests, incident tickets and changes in a timely manner and work with Helpdesk to resolve issues  • Closely working with Unix, Windows, Network teams to seamlessly provide the storage availability, accessibility for all clients.  • Work closely with EMC and internal customers, interfacing with management personnel, to accomplish requested technical tasks  • Work with the storage engineering team to standardize the storage maintenance, provisioning and decommissioning process  • Follow policies and procedures for change, problem, and incident management Storage Administrator End Client - Troy, MI May 2014 to February 2016 Environment: EMC Isilon X410, S210, NL400, OneFS, SyncIQ, InsightIQ NetApp 7 Mode FAS6080, NetApp Clustered Data OnTap 8.1, EMC VNX, Snapmirror, On Command Manager, Sun Solaris, Red Hat Linux, InsightIQ for Isilon.  • Administered a NAS environment comprising of 5 + NetApp FAS6080 Filers utilizing Data ONTAP, NetApp Snaplock, 8 EMC Isilon with over 13 nodes each.  • Administer and maintain day-to-day operational support, implementations and periodic hardware and software maintenance. HW/OS installs/upgrades, Performance analysis, tuning and management, Configuring data storage On Isilon Cluster with 7.x using CLI and Web GUI.  • Configured Smart Zones, Access Zones, NFS/SMB Exports, Smart Pools, and SmartQuotas. Responsible in Configuring/Joining nodes in Isilon cluster, and involved in Configuring NFS, SMB shares.  • Configured Quotas for Isilon at the directory and sub-directory level using Smart Quotas. Configured SyncIQ, file transfer policy event from one cluster to another cluster. Configuration including Smartconnect (dynamic) with Multiple IP Pools and Access Zones, Generate Insight IQ and OnCommand (NetApp) reports on utilization, chargeback and growth trends and provide recommendations.  • NetApp to Isilon migration using OneFs (isi_vol_copy) for NFS and Robocopy for CIFS/SMB.  • NetApp Configurations including vfiler, qtree, volume, aggregates and snapshots. Expand volumes identifying and resolving performance problems.  • Configuring Snapmirrors, Snap Lock and Snapvault between source and destination volumes. Monitoring Snapmirror Status on daily basis.  • Working on provisioning new hosts on NetApp devices on daily basis for NFS, CIFS and Multiprotocol environments  • Worked with NetApp Engineer on OS upgrades.  • Monitor the NetApp devices on a daily basis for hardware failures comprising of Hard Disks failures, Disk Shelf failures, Interface failure, overheating of system, etc., performance thresholds; System latencies broken down by protocols: SMB, ISCSI, NFS, day-to-day troubleshooting, existing configuration modifications, data migration and newly provisioned storage configuration.  • Managed VNX using Unisphere Manager.  • Planned, designed and configured SAN for backup infrastructure with NetBackup solutions, Monitoring and troubleshooting the backup failures.  • Following process of ITIL like change managements, trouble management.  • Working on storage scripts.  • Configuration and troubleshooting Storage backup and data migration using SnapVault , Snapmirror.  • Created SOPs for Backup projects and worked for starting new projects of datacenter support  • Troubleshooting RAID and Mirroring, creating Disk Groups/RAID/Pools  • Create/Modify LUNs; assign LUN to a FC port  • Expose a LUN to specific host HBA and iSCSI, LUN Expansion/MetaLUN.  • Configured pools and RAID groups with HOT Spares.  • Participate in the development of technical support strategies and plans; acts as an internal consultant regarding use of tools and process re-engineering to improve delivery, support and governance process execution.  • Plan and maintain NAS disaster recovery / business continuity components and procedures. Systems Engineer End Client July 2011 to December 2012 • Responsible for administration of multi-vendor tiered storage environment, performing daily administrative tasks like storage provisioning and troubleshooting SAN related issues including incident escalations and root cause analysis and remediation.  • Day to day provisioning of storage on DMX(Storage device selection/creation, Zoning, LUN Masking). Managed and deployed LUNS from EMC storage frames to multiple servers using the SYMCLI, Navisphere.  • Identified and resolved configuration problems with HBA drivers, and cabling.  • My other duties were the weekly shifts of 24x7 on-call duty and the cooperative queue management of trouble calls using a trouble-ticket system. Education Masters in Information Technology Southern New Hampshire University May 2014 B.Tech in Information Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2011 Skills SAN, EMC, Brocade, Netapp, Isilon (4 years), RPA, Iscsi, NFS, Cifs, Commvault Additional Information Technical Skills:    Storage Arrays NetApp Filers, Isilon (Gen5 & Gen6), EMC VNX, PureStorage  Replication Software: VNX Replicator, SyncIQ, SnapMirror  OS: Windows 2003 / 2000 / NT, Linux, Solaris, HP-UX, IBM AIX, VMware ESX  Monitoring / Reporting NetApp OnCommand, Isilon InsightIQ, NetApp Performance Analyzer  Scripting: Shell Script  Migration Tools: Isilon SyncIQ, XCP, rsync, Snapmirror, isi_vol_copy, DataDobi  Backup: Netbackup 8.1/6.5/7.5, Avamar, Cohesity, Igneous, EMC Networker