Windows Administrator Windows <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Windows Administrator - ISS Information Systems Solutions Inc El Cajon, CA 6 Years of IT experience.    Former U.S. Air Force, Cyber Systems Operator (3D052).    TS/SCI Clearance - (November 2020).    Bilingual (Fluent in Spanish and English). Work Experience Windows Administrator ISS Information Systems Solutions Inc - San Diego, CA December 2018 to Present Navy Secret Wide Area Network (SWAN) Administrator / Lab Administrator, primary duties include ensuring all workstations meet DISA STIG requirements, Built Secret Navy test network backup server. Created and modified network wide GPOs to ensure DISA compliance. ACAS administrator. Responsible for testing and implementing Windows 10 test images. System Administrator Taurean Agile Cyber Defense - San Antonio, TX August 2017 to December 2018 Primary duties include providing support to DISA (Defense Information Systems Agency) EGS (Enterprise Sensor Grid) contracts. Maintained and repaired ESG server hardware, conducting site surveys for server upgrade installation across various locations in the United States. Network and Server administrator for Taurean Agile Cyber Defense Headquarters in San Antonio. Created and implemented company wide DoD security compliance policies. Reorganized and restructured headquarter infrastructure. Cyber Systems Operator United States Air Force - Lackland AFB, TX November 2015 to August 2017 Provided system administration on both Air Force Secret and TS/SCI domains. Provided system support for Commvault, VMWare DFS, DNS, DHCP, Active Directory and Remedy. Help Desk Technician for the 690th Intelligence Support Squadron, created/provisioned Secret user accounts for entire JBSA (Joint Base San Antonio) Lackland Air Force Base. Cyber Systems Technician Ramstein AFB October 2013 to October 2015 Primary duties included maintaining four different classified networks to provide network access to data and live full motion video to 500 Intelligence analysts in order to perform missions related to Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance to the Air Force and any other organizations within the Department of Defense and NATO. Recreation Leader I City of San Diego - San Diego, CA June 2010 to April 2013 Provided customer support for residents of the City of San Diego across various locations. Education High school or equivalent Skills System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin, Active Directory Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: E-3