Field Service Tech II Field Service Tech II Field Service Tech II - Health-First Rockledge, FL Work Experience Field Service Tech II Health-First - Rockledge, FL July 2017 to Present • Maintains a high level of security awareness in assigned areas of responsibility, ensuring all established Health First Information Security policies and procedures are met and followed.  • Maintains the Technical Support Services (TSS) for Mass Storage Data System (MSDS), eyewash station logs, hurricane preparedness, and other safety related documentation.  • Participates in the deployment and troubleshooting of computer system configurations, mobile devices, patient entertainment systems, multimedia systems, pagers, medication carts, and applications related to core systems.  • Monitors open Incident, Request, Problem Reports, along with Change/Data Management tickets.  • Ability to create, close or properly assign cases within the help desk tracking software.  • Creates needed Incident, Request, Problem Reports, and Change/Data Management tickets.  • Creates problem ticket for multiple instances of similar nature and escalates as needed/required per the problem management policy.  • Increases visibility to a 3rd Level Support Group only after unresolved problem reports have been properly troubleshot and processes have proven ineffective and the ticket has been properly documented.  • Properly documents all assigned help desk tasks  • Interacts with Physicians and Health Care Providers daily to properly assist with applications such as Allscripts Sunrise Clinical Manger (SCM) and/or Centricity Electronic Medical Record (CEMR) along with other application issues as required.  • Conducts Quality Assurance audits for the junior team member's work and assists that team as needed  • Provides Customer Support within the priority and case closure standards as agreed to in the departmental Service Level Agreement (SLA) documentation. Participates as requested in customer service training programs.  • Understands the Priority system for assignment of Support Center cases.  • Ensures help tickets are completed within the Service Level Agreement (SLA) time line for all contractual priorities. Contractual priorities are accomplished by coordinating with other Health Information Technology (HIT) areas to ensure that issues are worked and resolved utilizing an integrated product team approach.  • Applies fundamental customer support techniques such as standard greeting, restating issue/request for confirmation, apologizing for short term system related inconvenience, along with inquiring if there are other instances that can be assessed or supported while on-site to ensure customer satisfaction. System Administrator Range Generation Next (RGNext) - Cape Canaveral, FL February 2015 to June 2017 • Ensures that Meteorological computer systems are operational at all times. Coordinates hardware and software maintenance on multiple computer systems, data communications equipment, and remote sensors to provide continuous support for:  ? Meteorological System Computers (MSC)  ? Automated Meteorological Profiling System (AMPS)  • Perform fault diagnosis to isolate problems to the appropriate software and hardware.  • Resolves all problems and restores service quickly to ensure continuous system availabilities.  • Interfaces with USAF Range Weather Operations to schedule repair time, communication outages, and restore cycles.  • Maintains daily logs and records on all software problems and hardware failures  • Maintain network configuration on multiple computer systems.  • Performs software functions to include operational configuration control, maintenance of operational database parameters, backup and restoration/recovery, user access and software initialization. Information Systems Security Professional Computer Sciences Raytheon - Patrick Afb, FL September 2012 to February 2015 Cape Canaveral, FL    • Conducts technical and programmatic assessments on the Eastern Range for the 45th Space Wing.  • Conducts various computer and IT systems related audits to ensure optimal operational compliance and data is protected from both internal and external attack.  • Evaluates security systems according to industry best practices to help safeguard internal information systems and databases.  • Monitor security audit and intrusion detection system logs for system and network anomalies.  • Compile extracted information from different asset risk assessment to build Department of Defense Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process (DIACP).  • Coordinates activities with management and other IT specialists. Investigates security violations and breaches.  • Prepares reports on intrusions as necessary and communicates the impacts of non-compliant security issues with management.  • Conducts vulnerability assessments to ensure compliance with contractual requirements.  • Utilizes various vulnerability assessment tools (Nessus, Wireshark, Retina, Gold Disk and SRR scripts) to assess information systems security posture for DIACAP.  • Reviews and defines security requirements to determine if designed to comply with established standards.  • Generated compliance systems documentation for authorization into site locations .SAAs/SRWs for access to  • Completed company compliance, SRW, and Information Assurance (IA) control audit training for Information Security.  • Generated System Account Authorization (SAA)/SRW spreadsheet for tracking purposes for team. Product Technician Aarons Rental - Melbourne, FL August 2011 to August 2012 • Provided technical support for all products/rentals, ie computers, printers and etc.  • Provide customer service by servicing products/rentals.  • Coordinate delivery and setup of products to customers.  • Maintains the products before and after deployment.  • Reimaging laptops and desktops after devices are returned. Education Bachelor of Science degree in Business Barry University Skills EMR (Less than 1 year), Ethernet (Less than 1 year), Excel (Less than 1 year), LAN (Less than 1 year), LAN/WAN (Less than 1 year) Certifications/Licenses Security+ September 2013 to September 2021 Additional Information Operating Systems: Windows XP/Vista/Windows 7/Windows8 & Red Hat Linux  Software Application: MS Suite (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access), Novell, Trend Micro, Centricity EMR  Networking: LAN/WAN, TCP/IP, VPN, Ethernet, Routers, Phones