Job Seeker Owings Mills, MD Work Experience Northrop Grumman Corporation April 2019 to Present • Coordinating current DB2 Upgrade from version 10.5.9 to 11.1.4  • Coordinating schedules and tasks between different stakeholders  • Use tools like Confluence, JIRA, Visio and Sharepoint to manage project documentation  • Implement upgrade strategy per project timeline  Outcome: On-going Project DevOps Engineer Northrop Grumman Corporation December 2017 to Present Windsor Mill, MD 12/2017 - Present  CONTRACT - Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services Fraud Prevention System (CMS FPS)  DevOps Engineer    • Worked with Splunk Professional Services to develop best practices to maintain the performance of Splunk.  • Guided SMEs in using Splunk to create dashboards, alerts, reports etc.  • Upgraded Splunk versions.  • Installed different Splunk applications like Cisco for Splunk, VMware for Splunk and Windows for Splunk.  • Efficiently handled work load management for load balancing and failover; thereby, improving performance, reliability and scalability.  • Implemented Splunk Enterprise Security in the environment for Security operations.  • Onboarded data from different applications.  • Worked on parsing data on heavy forwarders.  • Monitored reports in license master.  • Integrated JIRA with Splunk for alerting and submitting a ticket.    Database Engineer  • Coordinated and ran Scrum meetings as needed.  • Created and maintained all SQL Scripts used to move and manipulate data in DB2 Environment.  • Maintained DEV and Production Environment of FPS DB2 Database.  • Maintain and troubleshoot DB2 instance problems and resolve developer issues  • Configured and Migrated new HADR database servers.  • Established and spear headed new projects to ensure database is well organized and free of clutter.  • Assisted Data Modeler with database design and structure.  • Met with Product Owner to streamline business needs and technical requirements.    Achievements: Successfully helped to implement FPS System through multiple releases and also with continuous improvement. Successfully migrated from single instance DB configuration on a VM to HADR single standby configuration on physical servers. HADR October 2017 to September 2018 • Put together requirements for project implementation  • Coordinated between various technical stakeholders to provide various technical deliveries  • Coordinated between Client and Management stakeholders to provide updates, feedback and mange expectations  • Held frequent meetings to keep all project participants in sync in regards to deliverables  • Used tools like Confluence, JIRA, Visio and Sharepoint to manage project documentation  Outcome: Successfully implemented HADR across all environments (DEV, VAL, IMPL and PROD) CONTRACT - Center Northrop Grumman Corporation April 2016 to December 2017 for Medicare and Medicaid Services Quality Payment Program (CMS QPP)  AWS Database Engineer    • Responsible for standing up new PostgreSQL Database Servers in AWS.  • Maintained, monitored and managed PostgreSQL AWS RDS Instances.  • Assisted Modeler and DEV team with database design.  • Tuning developer SQL queries to ensure optimum performance.  • Performed patching and upgrades as needed to keep database current and secure.  • Created and implemented database SOP.  • Managed DynamoDB instance in AWS.  • Managed AWS IAM and also policies required to access AWS resources    Achievements: Successfully went LIVE with QPP Application, implemented various cutting edge technologies in conjunction with DEVOPS and DEV team. Technology Consultant Compass Solutions - Alexandria, VA August 2015 to February 2016 Alexandria, VA 08/2015 - 02/2016  CONTRACT - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)  Technology Consultant    • Performed Analysis based on quarterly database security scans.  • Managed Splunk applications development, release and maintenance  • Performed data ingest, index administration, maintenance and optimization.  • Manipulate raw data and Field extraction. Distributed search and search performance tuning  • Configured Splunk for all the mission-critical and large-scale applications  • Used Splunk effectively for application troubleshooting and monitoring post go lives.  • Designed Splunk Enterprise Server 6.2 infrastructure to provide high availability by configuring clusters across two different data centers  • Created many of the proof-of-concept dashboards for IT operations, and service owners which are used to monitor application and server health.  • Installed and implemented several kinds of visualization to Splunk Dashboards  • Participated in standardizing Splunk forwarder deployment, configuration and maintenance across UNIX and Windows platforms  • Drafted and Implemented MySQL Database and Splunk Server Baseline document based on CIS Security recommendations.  • Managed, re-mediated and closed existing POAMs.  • Drafted and implemented MySQL and Splunk Best Practice document.  • Drafted and implemented Account Management plan.  • Drafted and implemented patching/upgrade plan.  • Monitored server alerts from server team and advised on appropriate action to be taken by appropriate team.    Achievements: Successfully closed all 17 open POAMs that were highlighted by Congress in less time than expected. Succeeded in facilitating database upgrade across USPTO from all legacy servers to at least version. Succeeded in bridging the gap between database team, security team and business owners. Systems Administrator/Project Lead CONTRACT - Washington Suburban Sanitary Commission (WSSC) - Columbia, MD August 2012 to August 2015 • Managed mainframe system (managing existing and creating new accounts).  • Managed Microsoft Exchange Server (creating new and maintaining old accounts).  • Managed Active Directory (creating and maintaining new accounts and policy).  • Managed Microsoft System Center and Configuration Manager (creating software packages, managing PCs on network).  • Managed printers on the print server/Network.    Achievements: Successfully coordinated Operating System upgrade to Windows 7. Successfully set up satellite office for Customer Care team. DBA Digirev Consulting - Hyattsville, MD January 2014 to July 2015 • Managed MySQL databases for company clients.  • Performed weekly back-ups and recoveries as needed.  • Tuned database servers to ensure efficient running of systems.  • Performed database security tasks including, user maintenance, password cycling, privilege auditing. CONTRACT - Washington Suburban Sanitary Commission (WSSC) June 2013 to May 2015 • Led team of 5 to implement Windows 7 upgrade across organization of about 3500 employees and contractors  • Held weekly meetings with team members to coordinate tasks  • Coordinated meetings with different Depts to gain requirements for golden image  • Put together test plans for individual tests with relevant software for different teams  • Managed project administrative aspects using MS Project  Outcome: Successfully deployed Windows 7 across organization MySQL DBA - Contractor Dalma Ventures - Baltimore, MD June 2011 to August 2012 • Managed MySQL databases (over 50 databases in a replication environment).  • Performed backup and recovery of databases as needed.  • Created and altered database structures and schema as needed.  • Wrote SQL scripts to perform tasks that were repetitive.  • Served as a point of contact for database users  • Participated in development of database architecture and management policies, procedures and standards. Skills Database, Db2, Mysql, Postgresql, Jira, Dynamodb, Splunk, Sharepoint, Active directory, Remedy, Bmc, Erwin, Microsoft office, Excellent written, Time management, Dsm, Database management, Excellent written and verbal communication skills, Written and verbal, Multitasking Additional Information General Skills Overview: Strong analytical skills, Resourceful in project completion, time management, multitasking. Excellent written and verbal communication skills. Strong leadership and inter-personal relationship skills    Technology Skills:  Server Monitoring Tools: Splunk (5.x, 6.x, 7.x), DSM  Databases: MySQL (5.0, 5.1, 5.5, 5.6, 5.7, Percona), PostgreSQL (9,4, 9.6, 10.1), DynamoDB, DB2 LUW.  AWS Tools: Cloudwatch, IAM, DynamoDB, RDS, Cloud formation, Cloudbreak  Database Management Tools: IBM DataStudio, PgAdmin, MySQL Enterprise Manager, Monyog, TOAD, Erwin DM.  Project Management Tools: JIRA, Confluence, Sharepoint.  Other Tools: GitHub, Active Directory, Microsoft System Center, BMC Remedy, Microsoft Office.