Server Server Portland, OR Hospitality Information Technology professional with experience across multiple Point of Sales (POS) platforms in high profile corporations. Certified POS system trainer with comprehensive understanding of industry Operations, Marketing, and Reporting activities. Strengths in both technical and interpersonal aspects of the business, with 13 years of industry experience and the ability to efficiently and effectively transition and implement menu management systems. Work Experience Server YAKIMA STEAK COMPANY - Yakima, WA January 2019 to July 2019 Server  • Demonstrated genuine hospitality in a fine dining atmosphere while greeting and establishing rapport with all guests, ensuring specific customer needs and requests be met and delivered proficiently.  • Productively prepared for large parties and reservations, anticipating planning and staffing needs.  • Precisely described menu items and seasonal offerings, appropriately identifying wine, beer and spirit pairings.  • Guided guests through menu while demonstrating thorough knowledge of the food, beverages and ingredients. Server CLAIM JUMPER RESTAURANT - Costa Mesa, CA November 2017 to December 2018 • Demonstrated genuine hospitality in a fine dining atmosphere while greeting and establishing rapport with all guests, ensuring specific customer needs and requests be met and delivered proficiently.  • Productively prepared for large parties and reservations, anticipating planning and staffing needs.  • Precisely described menu items and seasonal offerings, appropriately identifying wine, beer and spirit pairings.  • Guided guests through menu while demonstrating thorough knowledge of the food, beverages and ingredients. Restaurant Systems Supervisor CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN, RESTAURANT SUPPORT CENTER - Playa Vista, CA July 2016 to November 2017 • Managed multiple versions of the menu for the POS system and online ordering for ~200 locations, administering menu modifications including regular pricing updates, regional or site-specific discounts, promotions, tests, and seasonal offerings.  • Executed multiple POS menu rollouts per year, which included building and QA/QCing multiple new menu items and features, organizing said items over multiple price and tax tiers, then facilitating a team to deploy these items company-wide across five time zones.  • Project managed both the company-wide computer server upgrade as well as all Verifone credit card chip reader installations. Managed each hardware installation project which consisted of simultaneously scheduling on-site third-party technicians as well as in-house tech support for each location, creating concise training documentation for the on-site technician, tracking and confirming hardware shipments, heading all communication with third-party vendors, and providing following-up for all management teams. POS Administrator BJ'S RESTAURANTS INC., RESTAURANT SUPPORT CENTER - Huntington Beach, CA May 2014 to July 2016 • Oversaw and updated over 170 versions of the menu for POS system and online ordering, all consisting of unique combinations of food; beverages; national, regional and local beers; catering and buffet menus; happy hour offerings and discounts; and marketing offerings; all falling in one of 11 price tiers with unique tax flags.  • Programed and deployed all new PLU, menu item, or restaurant discounts in POS system, closely communicating with Marketing, Operations, Brewery, and Reporting departments to ensure accuracy in build and implementation.  • Managed the menu pipeline for deployment teams, arranging all build, QA/QC, and deployment dates and details for any and all POS or online ordering menu items. Education Bachelor of Arts in HumanCommunication in Interpersonal/Organizational Communication California State University Skills POS, POS SYSTEMS, TIME MANAGEMENT, ORDER ENTRY, EXCEL, MICROSOFT WORD, WORD, BILINGUAL Additional Information RELEVANT SKILLS    Proficient in Microsoft Word, Power Point and Excel; experience with Posi, Aloha, CAKE, and Northstar Order Entry POS Systems; bilingual in both English and Spanish; strong communication, organization, and time management skills.