Jr. Systems Administrator Jr. <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Dana Point, CA Work Experience Jr. Systems Administrator Rudy Project USA - San Clemente, CA July 2017 to Present Maintained and administered computer networks and related computing environments including computer hardware, systems software, application software, as well as, respond, troubleshoot and resolve problems involving hardware, operating systems, and applications both remotely and onsite.    Performed regular and system backups.    Created User Accounts in AD, Exchange Mailboxes, MS Lync Accounts, and Avaya Phone account and mailbox set up.    Provided customer and network administration services such as passwords, electronic mail accounts, and security. Help Desk Technician ll Squar Milner - Newport Beach, CA January 2016 to July 2017 Setting up and configuring desktop and notebook computers and printers, initializing and stabilizing performance.    Respond, troubleshoot and resolving problems involving hardware, operating systems, and applications both remotely and in person.    Install Company approved software (MS Office, Skype, TeamViewer, etc.).    Providing end-user support by answering the help desk line and mailbox. Tracking help calls and solutions by creating Spiceworks tickets and notifying team members when taking and completing an open request. IT Support Technician C&G Technologies - Lake Forest, CA March 2014 to December 2015 Assess through a troubleshooting process, then deploy and document the necessary technology based solution to meet the project needs.    Actively managed user's technical issues, by investigating, verifying, resolving and documenting resolutions.    Assisted with the development of client side Statements of work (SOW) and Service level agreements (SLA), and contributed to the company knowledge base with the creation of SOP document for commonly reported incidents.    Front line support for client relationship management. Technical Analyst Computer Nerds - Moreno Valley, CA October 2012 to February 2014 Responsible for on-site installing, maintaining and repairing company systems which include hardware, software and networking products as well as operating systems.    Participated cross-functionally on team that managed the imaging, setup and deployment of servers and PCs.    Supported operations involving hardware, software and peripherals.    Communicating with internal and external clients about their requests for changes, rework/repair, updates and modifications. Education Associate Degree in Network Systems Administration in Network Systems Administration ITT Technical Institute - Orange, CA Skills Active directory, Data center, Data center maintenance, Exchange, Vpn, Lan/wan, Network connectivity, Crm, Microsoft exchange, Lan, Microsoft office, Windows xp, Training, Maintenance, Inventory Additional Information Technical Skills    Windows XP, 7, 8, 10 System Upgrades Cable Management Inventory Tracking  Productivity Software System Recovery Microsoft Office LAN/WAN/VPN  Printer troubleshooting Driver Installation Hardware Configurations Active Directory  Network Connectivity New User Training Phone & Online Support CRM Ticketing  Window Server 2008 r2 AV installs / Updates Data Center Maintenance Microsoft Exchange