Linux Administrator Linux <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Linux Administrator - Vanguard Charlotte, NC • IT Professional with over 7+ years of experience in System Administration and DevOps under heterogeneous environmentconsisting of Red Hat Linux, Cent OS, Solaris, Ubuntu Linux & Windows Environments.  • Experience in working with Amazon (AWS) Console services like EC2, VPC, IAM, S3, Auto Scaling & Load Balancer.  • Experience in Installation, configuration, and System Administration with Linux (RHEL 7/6/5), (SUSE 12,11), Solaris(11/10/9), HP-UX (11.x/10.x), AIX (6.x/5.x) and Windows (2012/2008/2003/NT) administration.  • Expertise in RHEL/OEL provisioning, Upgrades, Patching, Configuration and Performance Tuning in Linux utilizing YUM and Red Hat Satellite Servers.  • Strong knowledge on Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Experienced working in Agile andScrum methodologies.  • Expertise in Virtualization with installation, Configuration and Administration of VMware ESXi and vCenter Server.  • Strong background in Linux/Unix Administration, Build and Release Management and Cloud Implementation all within that suites the needs of an environment under DevOpsCulture.  • Extensively worked on administering NIS, NFS, DNS, DHCP, LDAP, Samba, Mail servers, RAID and Shell Scripting.  • Configured and used Jumpstart, Kickstart, Ignite and NIM to install OS.  • Experience in configuration Management tools like Ansible, Puppet, Chef and Vagrant.  • Expertise in managing and configuring multipath based solution and well experienced in working with Storage Administrators to configure SAN based LUNs in Red Hat Enterprise Linuxfor LVM creation and Extension.  • Experience in writing shell scripts to automate the administrative tasks and management using cron and daemons. Familiar with DevOps Continuous Delivery environment.  • Extensive working knowledge on automation for deployment/ configuration of different Applicationservers like WebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss; Web Servers like and Apache Tomcat and Web Containerslike Nginx etc.  • Experience in installing, configuring the Volume/File system management using VERITAS Volume Manager (VxVM), Logical Volume Manager (LVM), Solaris Volume Manager (SVM) and VERITAS File System (VxFS).  • Expertise implementing VMware Virtual infrastructure environment that consisted of ESXi Server, multiple Virtual Center, vMotion, HA, DRS, VCB, Update Manager.  • Expertise in deploying various Red Hat Enterprise Linux builds both Physical and Virtual on HP/IBM/Dell Hardware running ESXi.  • Experience with tier three supporting servers and directory service issues. Any unresolved issues were escalated directly to VMware support.  • Extensive experience in Shell (Bourne, Korn) and knowledge of HTML, Java Scripts, SQL, PerlCarrying out administrative task periodically such as cleaning of system log file, var file, removing temp files, checking file system, scheduling jobs, create user accounts, installing packages.  • Technical professional with management skills, excellent business understanding and communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Linux Administrator Vanguard - Charlotte, NC August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Installation, Configuration, Administration & Trouble Shooting of Linux, Solaris, HP-UX and AIX Operating systems.  • Worked on agile methodology throughout the project. Involved in weekly and daily bases release management.  • Working with a strong team of architectures, backend developers to gather function and non-functional requirements  • Storage setups, RAID, Logical Volume Manager, system backup design and disaster recovery Systems performance monitoring.  • Creation/configuration of Additional swap/tmp dynamically as and when required.  • Wrote Shell/Perl Scripts to collect the System Performance Information, account information etc.  • User administration through power broker and power password tools.  • Installation, configuration and administration of IBM Oversimplification server v6.0 and WebLogic Servers.  • Installed and configured Red Hat satellite Server V5, V6.1.8, V6.2 and Subscription Asset Manager (SAM) for V5 from scratch  • Installing and Implementation of VMware ESXi 5.0/6.X host servers with VMware vSphere Client V5.x/6.0, vSphere CLI and Configured HBAs and iSCSI SAN storage.  • Package, Patches management, migration, integration & distribution in development, testing, QA, Training, Production environment. (Testing: UAT, SIT, OAT, Performance testing)  • Configured VCS, RECS and Service Guard Cluster from the scratch and added Service Groups and resources based on the requirement with appropriate dependencies in Active/passive and Active/Active Cluster Server configuration. Documented the in-change design/Architecture diagram of Cluster Servers.  • Experience in Load Balance workload evenly across two or more servers, network links, CPUs, hard  • drives, or other resources, to get optimal resource utilization, maximize throughput, minimize  • response time and avoid overload.  • Configured Global filesystem (GFS), Terabytes file system (ZFS) pools, file systems, snapshots and clones.  • Created User, Groups. File Systems per database requirement.  • Managed physical and Logical volumes, Volume Groups etc. in Linux and HP-UX using Logical Volume Manager.  • Created CMR and followed proper process to validating and closing project/SR.  • Responsible for Implementing and maintaining SUDO, SSH and other security tools like Potables, SCOM, Qualys, Flexera etc  • Unix Shell/Perl scripting for job automation.  • Develop, Maintain, update various scripts for services (start, stop, restart, recycle, and corn jobs) UNIX based Korn shell and Bash.  • Monitoring, Capacity planning, Health check of the systems. Documentation. Bridge call (24/7) support. Incident & defect analysis of server & application hosts. Application validation & verification.  • Taking pro-active action plan for various issue management.  • Responsible for doing Performance management & Capacity planning for old and new applications.  Environment: Solaris 8,9,10, RHEL4,5,6Windows 2003,2008, Sun Enterprise  server, Sun fire 6800/4800/480, E10k/25K. Series, Series, HP Itanium, HP PA -RISC boxes Rp8200, IBM series 670, p5 595, series, HP Blade Server C7000, BL660, BL460. Dell Blades M1000e Linux Administrator Milwaukee - WI Kohl's, Milwaukee - WI November 2016 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  • Installation, Configuration & Upgrade of AIX&Red Hat Linux operating system.  • Installation & configuration, trouble shooting of Web Sphere, Apache.  • Application, Operating System & Hardware performance monitoring, tuning & defect analysis on the third-party tool OP Manager.  • Develop, test, and maintain a Disaster recovery plan for critical VMS an application data.  • Ensuring the Network Infrastructure is up and running.  • Implemented resource pools to divide the VM's according to their resource requirements.  • Build, Deployed and Configured VMware Guests with Windows 2008 and Windows 2003 Servers.  • Performance Analysis, Uptime &Response time analysis, capacity analysis for future business.  • Package& Patches mgmt, Upgrade the OS. Vendor co-ordination for existing & new technology.  • Extensive experience with operating systems, network protocols, systems programming and configurations, and/or hubs, switches, and routers. (TCP/IP, TCP Dump, Trace Route), host mgmt.  • Follow up change management procedure & implement the documentation standard as per requirement.  • Written shell/Perl scripts for system maintenance.  • Application migration from physical to virtual/virtual to virtual platform.  • Windows OS build, IP configurations, Domain Builds, Active Directory Site Builds and Support & Administration.  • Configuring LVM, NFS, DNS and LDAP on RHEL server environment.  • Experienced with volumes creation, resizing and troubleshoot to the client's development/production environment using Logical Volume Manager.  • Patching up the systems to the latest version as per the recommendations.  • Configuration & Monitoring of the networking devices which includes (Routers/Switches/ASA Firewall)  • Monitoring all the systems for latest Virus definitions and System and Security patch updates.  • SEND MAIL configuration and administration, testing the mail server.  • Responsible for Installation Windows 2000 Servers& Configuration of Domain Controller, DHCP, DNS&Active Directory.  Environment: Red-Hat Linux Enterprise servers (HP Proliant DL 585, BL 465/485, ML Series), Solaris 8,9,10,11 AIX 5.3, 6.1, SAN(Netapp), Blade Logic, Veritas Cluster Server 5.0, Windows 2003 server, Shell programming, Jboss 4.2, JDK 1.5,1. 6, VMware Virtual Client 3.5, VMware Infrastructure 3.5. Linux Administrator Serco - Chicago, IL April 2014 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Administration, Installation and maintenance of Red hat Linux&Windows Servers.  • Installing and configuration ESXi using custom based ISO's and Virtual Media based installs on several hundred CISCO UCS b200's as required for UAT/Production deployments of Windows 2003/2008/RHEL/SUSE deployment.  • Responsible for the installation, configuration and support of VMware vSphere and the daily management/monitoring of the virtual environment.  • Performance Monitoring & Tuning of Red hat Linux.  • Installation of Printers, Hard disk and Tape Drives etc.  • Security, users, groups' administration and daily backup and restore operations in Windows & Linux Environment  • Implemented resource pools to divide the VM's according to their resource requirements.  • Logical Volume Management (LVM) administration of Red hat Linux.  • System administration including user, system & group management, system updates, performance monitoring, backup/recovery, disk & storage management.  • Responsible for Maintenance of LAN& troubleshooting in network related problems.  • Responsible for Installation Windows 2000 Servers& Configuration of Domain Controller, DHCP, DNS&ActiveDirectory.  • Responsible for coordination with vendor for repair & maintenance of all Hardware  • Configuration & Monitoring of the networking devices which includes (Routers/Switches/ASA Firewall)  • Reports preparation of uptime, CPU usage, Memory usages & bandwidth utilization for all the networking devices.  • Performed setting up Configuration Server and Boot Server for Jumpstart process  • Extensively worked on Solaris 10 container technology, created non-global zones, modified local zone parameters, created file systems on local and global zones.  • Installed and configured Redhat Linux using Satellite Server.  • Implemented and organized a rollout project which involves upgrade of servers using Redhat Satellite Server.  • Installed, configured and maintained the Apache, Nagios, MySQL and php (LAMP).  • Involved in OS upgrade and Server migration from Solaris and HP-UX to Redhat Linux and data migration using EMC Open replication.  • Was managing user accounts for the team access for Redhat Satellite Server. Also created RPM packages using RPMBUILD, verifying the new build packages and distributing the package.  • Installation and configuration of Solaris Zones.  • Designed, supported, and maintained Oracle Real Application Clusters supporting business critical applications on HP Proliant BL465/BL685 & Integrity Itanium2 platforms on RHEL 4 & 5.  • Setup and maintained NFS, NIS, and TCP/IP network, configured the systems for TCP/IP Networking with the existing LAN, setting up SSH and SCP features between SUN systems and other Red Hat/UNIX hosts.  • Installed and configured VMware ESX server instances for virtual server setup and deployment. Responsible for creating VMware virtual guests running Solaris, Linux, Windows.  • Integrated the Linux environment with Active Directory providing a Single Sign On (SSO) solution.  • Using rsyslog & MySQL, deployed a custom syslog reporting solution for system alerts and notifications.  • Deployed Redhat Satellite Server with custom repositories to provide a stable management solution for the Linux environment.  • Experience with Jumpstart & Kickstart Installations on Solaris & Linux  • Installed, maintained and finetuned the Apache-Tomcat server and WebSphere Application Server in Linux Platform  • Created Bash/Korn shell scripts to monitor system resources and system maintenance.  • Wrote Perl and Python scripts to generate statistics and monitor processes.  • Deployed Active/Active MySQL clusters using Redhat Cluster Suite for supporting internal applications built on the LAMP stack.  • Automated system management tasks like user account creation, file system size monitoring, monitor system resources and system maintenance using Shell  • Installed, configured & upgraded WebSphere and provided extensive support in code deploy, change management and application level troubleshooting for the Dev, Test, Pre-Prod & Production environment. Deployed applications (EAR/WAR) files on multiple Servers/Clusters and maintained Load balancing.  • Worked with DBAs on installation of Oracle database, RDBMS database, restoration and log generation. Perform security patching of Linux servers.  Environment: Red Hat Enterprise Linux 4.x,5.x, Sun Solaris 8,9,10, VERITAS Cluster Server, Veritas Volume Manager, Oracle 11G, HP UX, IBM AIX, HP Proliant DL 385, 585 WebLogic, Oracle RAC/ASM, MS Windows 2003 server. Systems Design Engineer/Admin KLA Corporation - Milpitas, CA July 2012 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Administered +1000 Red Hat Linux servers 5/6/7, SUSE Linux 12/11/10 Supporting, Windows 2008/2012servers both production and Part of Build team for new Linux High-Performance Grid from 0 to 24.000 nodes  • Implementing new project build framework using Jenkins& maven as build framework tools.  • Build Custom Golden Images using kiwi-image creation tool.  • Installed and configured several hundred Red Hat Enterprise Linux in both Physical Blade utilizing Kickstart/PXE/Red Hat Satellite Server and VMware ESXi 5.0/5.5/6.0 Virtual Environment.  • Developed and implemented Shell and Python Scripts for automation purpose.  • Configured and maintained automated environment using Chef Recipes and Cookbooks to manage system configuration with in AWS environment.  • Design roles and groups for users and resources using AWS Identity Access Management (IAM).  • Configured and maintained Jenkins to implement the CI process and integrated the tool with Ant and Maven to schedule the builds.  • Responsible for Building, Installing, Configuring Linux (Red Hat 5.0, 6.0,7.0), (SLES 10/11/12).  • Configure Red Hat Cluster Nodes for any Legacy applications and verified the daily health check on the Cluster Nodes utilizing client.  • System builds from the scratch for Linux system using manual and automated (Kickstart, Satellite) installation.  • Worked on building and monitoring servers on various Virtualization platforms (VMware, KVM, Z/VM).  • Responsible for creating & mounting file systems using Logical Volume Manager on Linux Systems.  • Configuring Installed Ansible Tower and wrote Ansible playbooks for converting production support scripts.  • Installed, configured and Managed Red Hat Identity management (IDM) for access management on Linux.  • Worked on installing Docker with thin pool for various application teams.  • Worked with middleware team in setting up environment for Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment (CI/CD) framework using GIT, Jenkins, IBM Urban code etc.  • Created Monitors, Alarms and Notifications for EC2 hosts using Cloud Watch.  • Design roles and groups for users and resources for users using AWS Identity Access Management (AIM).  • Setting up VM Kernel Network and Enable vMotion and performed storage vMotion.  • Configured and Maintained VMware DRS Rules and VMware HA on Clusters in Virtual Center.  • Creating and monitoring Resource pool for Virtual Machines Resource.  • Helped in auditing Datacenter Inventory and in Data Center Migration.  • Configured and managed site recovery using VMware SRM.  • Worked on Package management using RPM and errata using UP2DATE in Linux.  • Build channels and push the packages to master Red Hat Satellite Server.  • Installed, configured and performed troubleshooting of VMware products vCAC, vCloud Director, Infrastructure Navigator, vCOPS, vSphere, vCenter, vCNS, SRM, and vCloud Orchestrator.  • Worked on Creation of packages using RPMBUILD, verified and distributed new packages.  • Responsible for Planning and performing routine disaster recovery test.  • Wrote Shell/Perl Scripts to collect the System Performance Information, account information, remote logging for root password changes.  • Maintain a high level of server-based security utilizing SELinux, IPTABLES, editing Linux kernel modules and parameter, along with Splunk agent deployment, and periodic vulnerability scans port scan.  • Responsible for doing user administration like creation and deletion of user accounts (LDAP), SUDO, Iptables and managing groups.  • Configured Samba with Active Directory and managed users file shares.  • Experienced in using VMWARE snapshot for system cloning, installation and production deployment.  • Written and developed shell/Perl scripting for application performance, system maintenance and backup.  • Interacted with vendors (Sun/HP/EMC/Dell) for Hardware and software supports.  • Experience on Expanding LUNs and allocated Storage to VMware ESX.  • Supported 24/7 high availability production servers.  Environment: Red Hat Linux 6/7, Solaris 10/11, VMware, DevOps tools Puppet, Chef, GitHub, Jenkins, Maven, Sun Enterprise Servers, Disk Suite, VERITAS Volume Manager 6.x, LDAP, DNS, NIS, NIS +, SNMP, HBA, VERITAS Volume manager, Veritas net backup, Veritas cluster server, EMC Symmetrix/Clariion/vBlock. Education Bachelor's