Procurement Analyst Procurement Analyst Procurement Analyst - Marc Jacobs Beauty San Francisco, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Procurement Analyst Marc Jacobs Beauty - San Francisco, CA October 2018 to Present Execute mass data changes & order management across 20+ vendors and 25 product lines.  ? Super user of Microsoft Dynamics A/X for purchasing, receiving, manufacturing execution, work orders & AP.  ? Partner with logistics, inventory control & demand planning to issue and receive purchase orders with contract manufacturers, component vendors  ? Partner with internal QA for sample approvals to process OTIF shipping across multiple distribution channels  ? Measurements, Analytics, & Reporting of procurement KPI including late orders, data integrity & invoice reconciliation Financial Systems Consultant (Procurement, Inventory, AP) Self-Employed - San Francisco, CA January 2018 to September 2018 Work with users across the organization to solve data and technical issues & provide user training.  ? Recommend, create and manage customization and enhancements for Procurement & billing functions in NetSuite.  ? Create and maintain documentation of the system and business processes  ? Maintain confidentiality of company programs, activities, records and financial information.  ? Contracted by Dewinter Technology Consulting, Robert Half & Ry & Hamer LLC for tech & distribution companies using NetSuite & Microsoft Dynamics  ? Analyze & improve business processes using DMAIC methodology NetSuite Administrator Procurement & Manufacturing, MRP - San Francisco, CA October 2015 to November 2017 Implemented Advanced Procurement & Inventory modules to ramp manufacturing processes including process documentation, cutover & roll out.  ? Configure enhanced NetSuite workflows for approval routing and advanced PDF layouts, lists and custom fields for purchase orders, item receipts, bills, work orders and other custom transaction forms  ? Clearly communicate advanced GL requirements to NetSuite development teams to correctly map expenses and fixed assets across procurement, inventory, manufacturing routing and work orders to meet monthly close audits  ? Managed 25+ full access users & 40 employee center users over 20 custom roles to include full NetSuite process documentation in Confluence, messaging and roll-out to the organization  ? Conduct functional testing, sandbox demonstrations, bundle installation cutovers and end user training for NetSuite processes across finance and manufacturing.  ? Prepared an executed high level weekly budget reports in NetSuite through saved searches and published user dashboards for multiple engineering programs from design to manufacturing  ? Serve as the primary point of contact for business stakeholders around prioritization, coordination and escalation of projects, enhancements and issues around Logistics, Manufacturing and Procurement, Accounting, FP&A and Program Management for NetSuite customization.  ? Facilitate business process review meetings with subject matter experts to refine business processes & maximize business efficiency  ? Create high-level functional designs that are accurately documented and mapped to business or architectural requirements, and communicate those designs to the technical development teams  ? Established aerospace manufacturing supply chain logistics within the company including ERP/MRP processes design/ roadmap, workflows & systems implementation  ? Responsible for tracking multi-million dollar budgets for global supply chain transactions & execute yearly close audits resulting in zero control flags to the organization Quality Manager Amazon - San Francisco Bay Area, CA April 2015 to October 2015 Measurement of quality & inventory transaction integrity accuracy while providing feedback to the operations  ? Review & analysis of customer defect data with development of corresponding action plans to reduce defects  ? Develop & execute daily, weekly & monthly action plans that increase quality, inventory accuracy & service  ? Partner with Area Managers & Operations Managers in the communication of policies.  ? Follow up to ensure compliance & consistency for policies & procedures surrounding Inventory Control & Quality  ? Plan & execute cycle counts as described in each area of the facility  ? Establish & Maintain Inventory handling procedures within the building  ? Plan for & identify root causes of inventory deviation through cause & effect analysis  ? Lead & supervise associates in Inventory Control/Quality Assurance operations Responsible for the overall direction, coordination, & evaluation of the operation  ? Carry out supervisory responsibilities in accordance with the organization's policies & procedures: to include interviewing & training exempt & nonexempt employees; full accountability for setting & meeting operational goals; strategic planning & forecasting; assigning & directing work; appraising performance; rewarding & disciplining employees; resolving problems; & staffing; as well as developing SOPs  ? Drive process improvements & the ability to keep pace with our explosive growth while motivating others to meet the challenges of an extremely deadline-driven environment  ? Teach & educate managers and associates on the importance of inventory control & quality assurance Process Analyst & Team Lead Amazon - Phoenix, AZ April 2012 to April 2015 Helping support daily management of department duties, including allocating labor, leading meetings, assigning job duties, and communicating with internal and external suppliers  ? Providing vacation coverage for Area Managers  ? Ensuring successful area performance, through tracking, reporting and feedback of associate performance  ? Participating in Operational Excellence initiatives including Kaizen events  ? Fully understanding workflow and daily production goals & updating SOP as required  ? Coaching associates to work safely at all times & participating in safety initiatives  ? Lead trainings and/or start of shift meetings to a group of 20+ associates  ? Maintains expert-level knowledge in at least two production departments; evaluates and improves processes within work areas; refines learning tools and techniques across the FC  ? Assists in measuring the effectiveness of learning; develops, maintains and applies learning to encourage associate development  ? Identifies areas for associate cross training and support and implements the training; supports the updating of SOPs and SOP certification of associates and managers.  ? Giving and receiving effective feedback  ? Responsible for tracking customer orders employing IT systems and tools to ensure process SLAs & escalations  ? Continuous improvement & PDCA cycles to standardize processes resulting in better workflow management & increased throughput  ? Defect reporting & analysis to improve quality metrics Education Technological Entrepreneurship and Management Arizona State University College of Technology and Innovation 2015 to 2017 Skills Supply Chain, Procurement, Purchase, Buying, Buying