Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Smiths Station, AL 40% Disabled Veteran providing focused and results-driven IT professional service with more than 7 years of experience that includes vulnerability analysis, technical testing and data analysis. Systems Administrator experience providing software, hardware, client/server and networking technical support in multiple Secure and Non-Secure environments. Excellent problem solver in the areas of information security, web applications, information management systems, and technical training. Versed in identifying alternative information security strategies to address organizational security objectives. Recommend solid solutions for system stabilization with the ability to reverse engineer troubled systems. Current holder of a Secret Security Clearance, expires 07/2020.    Risk/Vulnerability Assessments Active Directory Management Administrative Trainer  Change Configuration Management Group Policy Management End User Training / Support  IT Security Policies/Procedures Hardware Configurations Technical Troubleshooting  System Testing & Validation Customer Service Oral Communication Skills  NIPR, SIPR, JIANT Administration Technical Documentation Mobile Device Provisioning Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator ByLight Professional IT Services, Inc - Fort Benning, GA April 2018 to Present Serves as the Information Technology Systems Administrator for By Light Professional IT Services LLC and the NEC (Network Enterprise Center) for the Fort Benning, GA installation, maintaining the highest possible availability rate in managing 12,000+ automated computing assets, supporting 10,000+ end users for unclassified and classified systems. Filled in on multiple occasions as Help Desk Supervisor, supervising over 20 Information Technology Technician’s, 5 contractor desktop technicians, 14 direct support technicians and 3 Imaging Technicians. Selected to provide IT Management support in absence of site supervisor; recognized by Program Manager and the NEC Director as the “go-to” technician to assist with VIP and high priority work orders within the IMCOM Garrison Command office. Scheduled installation of new software and operating systems to limit the impact on the customer providing maximum availability and integrity of the end user system. Mapped printers to Non-Secure Internet Protocol (NIPR) and Secure Internet Protocol Router (SIPR) and JSOC Information Automated Network (JIANT) machines; assisted with print spooler and print server issues. Manage print servers in NIPR, SIPR and JIANT environments. Hands-on work experience in support of installations, repair, and troubleshooting of computers and networking components. Performs Information Assurance Security Officer (IASO) and Information Management Officer (IMO) duties within IMCOM. Attend and participate in conferences, special projects, and meetings with operating personnel from user activities and higher headquarters on new applications development methods, operational requirements, standards changes, and policies. . Ensure compliance with DoD Instruction 8510.01(Risk Management Framework), DoD Instruction 8500.01 (Cybersecurity), and NIST Special Publication 800-53 REV4.     Notable Contributions  § Provides technical assistance to users when system problems arise minimizing disruption of computer operations  § Document and control the functional and physical characteristics of a system, network or product to include the requirements, design, software, hardware, and procedures during the system life cycle.  § Provide assistance and guidance to Customer Service, Systems Administrators, Imaging and Active Directory Departments.  § Serves as Software, Troubleshooting and Scripting Subject Matter Expert (SME)  § Develop and document system administration Standard Operating Procedures (SOP).  § Provide consultation services to executive staff and department heads of supported departments on effects of real world IT issues.  § Present information assurance awareness training to all personnel at indoctrination and refresher training at periodic intervals throughout the year.   § Assisted in developing long-term strategies and capacity planning for meeting future desktop hardware needs. Conducted research on desktop products in support of PC procurement and development efforts. Evaluated and recommended products for purchase.  § Coordinated with vendors to remove, install / upgrade and service emergency systems to include fire alarms.  § Managed IMCOMs $204,000 Verizon Wireless phone bill servicing over 398 users. Human Resource Specialist US Army Reserves - San Antonio, TX October 2014 to July 2018 Supervisor: Bill Jordan  706-626-1020    Entering data into automated human resources systems such as the Electronic Military Personnel Office (eMILPO); Receiving telephone and email inquiries and referring to appropriate staff; Reviewing documentation such as promotion packets, records and other case documentation to ensure they are procedurally correct and contain sufficient information. Ensured records are in accordance with regulations by taking actions such as reviews, approving additions, revisions, or deletions to records. Processed military personnel actions such as awards, reassignments and separations. Performed a wide variety of duties such as record keeping, updating manuals on policy and directives, and preparing reports and information in support of the organization's programs, functions, and projects. Applied knowledge demonstrated by using proper telephone decorum when answering phones and or directing telephone calls to appropriate extensions. Ensured all paperwork such as required forms, records, and files pertaining to assigned work are maintained. Respond to telephone, written and verbal inquiries by using standard operating procedures. Performed administrative tasks using a word processor, spreadsheet software program to record, update, revise, correct, merge and print program material to meet multiple report formats and produce standard reports. Provide superior customer service.    Medical Support Assistant  GS-0342-04  1026 Chaffee Rd.  El Paso, TX 79916    40 hrs. per week Jorge Rubio October 2016 to January 2018 915) 742-4781)    Worked collaboratively in an interdisciplinary coordinated care delivery model and performed receptionist duties, customer service and other duties assigned for the proper and timely treatment of patients and maintained appointment schedules for one or more outpatient clinics. Advanced knowledge of policies and procedures associated with operational activities that affect the patient flow, patient care, and the revenue process. Assists with clinic access contingency plans by adjusting appointment times, location or dates as well as shift patients to other healthcare providers as conflict with staffing and/or coverage occurs. Utilized computer and software applications in support of office functions. Able to collaborate, communicate, set priorities, and organize work in order to meet deadlines, while ensuring compliance with established processes, policies, and regulations. Entering, manipulating, and/or retrieving information and data from automated systems. Created various documents, such as rosters, forms and checklist for the organization. Greeted patients and visitors as the initial point of contact, in person or telephonically.    Notable Contributions  * Compiled data for a variety of reports, using automated systems and prepared releases of information for patients. Used the Automated Data System (ADS) and various Automated Systems to include but is not limited to Composite Health Care System (CHCS) computer systems and Armed Forces Health.  * Managed Database, maintained sensitive and confidential files in accordance with HIPAA regulations information assurance policies and procedures.  * Ensured patients were registered in CHCS/AHLTA and DEERS.  * Was responsible for the maintenance, identification of record deficiencies and tracking of over 5,000 outpatient medical records Wrote technical specifications for purchase of PCs, desktop hardware and related products.  * Responsible for weekly monitoring and corrective actions of duplicate provider appointments, scheduling errors and recall program follow-up.  * Took and relayed incoming calls/messages to doctors and staff personnel; utilize knowledge of medical terminology and their abbreviation Data Inventory Specialist Jorge Rubio - El Paso, TX October 2016 to January 2018 Jorge Rubio  (915) 742-4781)    Supported the testing of the MIM-104 Patriot surface-to-air missile (SAM) system by collecting voice, audio, analog and digital data using Epiphan servers. Responsible for maintaining instrumentation and communication equipment, while monitoring the flow of information into and out of the system to ensure smooth equipment operation. Observed malfunctions of network servers to ensure functionality and reported communication problems to the Network Enterprise Center (NEC). Troubleshoot and diagnose network outages and system/software failures. Make continuous impromptu corrections to resolve security violations and revamp poor practices. Maintained the accuracy and integrity of a database in automated systems. Managed 20+ automated computing assets supporting 20+ end users for unclassified and classified systems that included command websites and MIM-104 Patriot surface-to-air missile (SAM) system functions. Prepared progress and quality control reports for all work performed during testing.    Notable Contributions  * Provides broad technical and professional support involving analyzing, diagnosing, and recovery of system abnormal ends Managed Database, maintained sensitive and confidential files in accordance with HIPAA regulations information assurance policies and procedures.  * Documented and communicated system issues and risks that were unable to be resolved to the Network Enterprise Center (NEC).  * Monitors and reports on the status and progress of work, checks on work in progress, and reviews completed work for compliance with supervisor's priorities, methods, deadlines and instructions.  * Maintains, controls, and updates test environment with new, current, and purposed changes during the duration of the MIM-104 Patriot surface-to-air missile (SAM) system testing. Technical Advisor Blackboard Student Services - Killeen, TX May 2015 to July 2015 Resolved client inquiries by utilizing multiple technological sources, including but not limited to telephone, live web chat, email responses, and customer submitted web inquiries. Interpreted technical issues and solved problems. Strived for one-call resolution of customer issues while communicating appropriate options in a timely and professional manner. Utilize automated computer systems to update, revise, and sort data. Documented information into web based ticketing system. Searched and navigated knowledge base to identify appropriate resolution for client issues and escalated unique issues or inaccurate information contained in the knowledge base to the immediate supervisor for resolution. Provided delightful, efficient and accurate resolution to customer inquiries.    Notable Contributions  * Achieved consistent 90% and higher in monthly customer satisfaction ratings and issue resolution.  * Researched and diagnosed technical issues, and implemented resolutions.  * Multitasked across systems and applications, analyzed and resolved technical issues, and comfortably navigated a virtual work environment. Cargo Specialist U.S. Army - Fort Hood, TX April 2012 to March 2014 Served as operations clerk exhibiting a high performance level working independently for more than fifty percent of the time. Ensured accuracy of shipment to meet requirements using numerous sources including LMRs, TMRs, and Mil Air by preparing well and closely monitoring movement of equipment and parts. Assisted with scheduling loading and delivery appointments delivering military vehicles, ammo, and equipment to various military posts and resolved scheduling issues. Maintained daily tracking reports to ensure that all orders were delivered on time to various warehouses and to the customers. Kept a detailed mileage log of over 24,000 miles as well as a detailed inventory of items that were requested for delivery. Responsible for all supplier inbound transportation routing including handling the daily optimization of small package, LTL and TL shipments. Also required troubleshooting shipper, carrier and optimization routing errors    Notable Contributions  * Prepare all Transport Movement Request (TMR) and Air Movement Request (AMR) for all PM IED DEFEAT sites.  * Ability to effectively and professionally present and collect information from customers, clients and other employees of the organization.  * Process documents or paperwork requiring a thorough knowledge of procedure and ensuring accuracy when customers requested Cargo services via freight, railhead, and air transfer.  * Maintained accurate transportation logs including vehicle inspection reports. Cargo Specialist U.S. Army April 2011 to March 2012 Served as a Cargo Specialist in 551st Inland Transfer Cargo Company and successfully maintained 100% in- transit visibility of containers, maintaining accountability of containers and chassis for other services and commercial carriers, as well as ensuring prompt return to the appropriate transport system. Employed safety procedures when directing signal winch man, hoist man, or cargo equipment operator. Minimized incidents and  accidents through strict implementation of safety regulations and effective leadership of personnel to motivate them to comply with procedures and guidelines. Provided expert oversight in maintaining proper coordination for all inbound/outbound oversized cargo, including contacting customers, receiving terminating cargo, and arranging pallet train build up for transit cargo. Identified and provided  solutions to problems and discrepancies with vehicles, loads, or convoys to leads and/or supervisor for disposition. Ensured the safe and secure transfer of cargo loaded on trailers, including crates and pallets; also tie, chain, and strap down loads on trailers. Handled all repairs of section vehicles, including changing tires, adding POL products, and changing lights, among others.    Notable Contributions  * Strictly executed compliance to program requirements of inventory, parts location, and quantities through proper storage management of repair parts.  * Demonstrated adeptness in managing property book inventories, purchasing supplies, preparing work schedules and implementing standard operational procedures.  * Equipped with superior leadership and technical skills in functional areas of transportation, supply management, as well as maintenance and services professionals, resulting in attainment of corporate goals. Education B.S. in Computer Science Trident University International - Cypress, CA August 2019 Information Technology New Horizons Computer Learning Center - Tampa, FL November 2017 to January 2018 Sumter County High School - York, AL 2010 Skills Active Directory, System Administrator, System Admin Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: SPC/E-4 November 2010 to March 2014 Certifications/Licenses Security+ January 2018 to January 2021 MTA Security Fundamentals October 2018 to October 2023 Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/b7n4wrwccahrucen Data Analysis — Familiar August 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/v4kl5xixeq8mvwot Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.