Lead | Junior Systems Administrator | Help Desk Lead | Junior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> | Help Desk Johnson City, TN I am very interested in a Systems Administrator / Help Desk position with an opportunity for growth. I believe that with my training, experience of 6+ years, and soon to be graduate education it has prepared me to be able to contribute my skills to any technology department. The bulk of my experience has been in help desk and system administration but as with many technology positions its expanded into other areas. One lesson that my experience has taught me is that everything in the field is continuously changing which requires always learning new skills. I hope to meet that expectation and would be a valued addition to anyones team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead | Junior Systems Administrator | Help Desk ETSU Physicians and Associates - Johnson City, TN May 2017 to Present Duties Include:   • Providing customer service   • Troubleshooting technical problems   • Helping with project installs   • Keeping track of orders through a work order system   • Logging and tracking inventory   • Training users on different systems   • Setting up and deploying new systems Help Desk Technician Baily Computing Technologies (BCTI) - Gray, TN October 2016 to May 2017 Duties Included:   • Providing customer service   • Troubleshooting customer’s technical problems   • Helping with project installs   • Pulling and terminating cable   • Reviewing systems daily to make sure they are operational   • Keeping track of orders through a work order system   • Logging and tracking inventory   • Proctoring Test Device Repair Technician FoxPaw - Kingsport, TN November 2016 to March 2017 Duties Included:   Communicated with customers on what services were available and performed the repairs of accepted devices including smartphones, tablets, and laptops. These customer transactions were controlled through a work order and payment system.  Parts Delivery Specialist O'Reilly Auto Parts - Erwin, TN July 2016 to September 2016 Duties Included:  Communicated with customers on the stock that was available in the store. Delivered parts and merchandise to the commercial account clients. Transferred stock between the different stores and also stocked shelves with new merchandise. Security Guard | Event Staff Axis Security - Johnson City, TN April 2015 to September 2016 Duties Included:   Worked with other staff to secure private areas and ensure the safety of events by providing traffic and crowd control. In addition to working entry points performing pat downs and bag searches to make sure that contraband was not being brought into an event.  Security Guard Sierra Nevada Brewing Company - Asheville, NC March 2016 to July 2016 Duties Included:   Preformed regular patrols inside and outside of the building to maintain the safety of patrons on the property. Worked with warehouse staff to process the sending and receiving of tractor trailer shipments. Also pulled video tape footage and wrote reports when needed.  Systems Administrator | Help Desk Unicoi County School System - Erwin, TN April 2012 to August 2015 Duties Included:   • Evaluating and completing work orders with the help of a help desk ticket system  • Troubleshooting and maintaining software/ hardware   • Communicating with other support staffs about the products used  • Troubleshooting network problems   • Installing and setup of network phones, patch panels, switches, and access points.   • Pulling and terminating various types of cable (CAT 5, CAT 6, and Coaxial Cable).  • Repairing and upgrading workstations, tablets, and laptops.   • Installing and maintaining local and network printers.   • Helped deploy and manage a one-to-one iPad program involving 1,500+ devices.   • Replacing broken screens on laptops, iPads, and iPhones.   • Installing and maintaining security magnetic door locks, strikes, and badges.   • Installing and maintaining of security cameras and systems (DVR).   • Auditorium and presentation audio/visual equipment setup including celling mounted projectors, interactive whiteboards, and microphone/speaker systems. Education Master's in Information Systems Milligan College - Elizabethton, TN August 2018 to Present Bachelor's in Information Technology King University - Bristol, TN August 2014 to August 2016 High school or equivalent Unicoi County High School - Unicoi, TN August 2007 to May 2011 Skills Active Directory, Technical Support, Windows, Help Desk (6 years) Certifications/Licenses For Hire Endorsement July 2016 to Present For Hire Endorsement on Drivers License