Senior Team Technician (Mission Defense Team) Senior Team Technician (Mission Defense Team) Senior Team Technician (Mission Defense Team) - 53rd Computer Systems Squadron Colorado Springs, CO Highly knowledgeable, detail-oriented cyber security technician with extensive knowledge in mapping, distribution systems, and cyber operations. Routinely detects vulnerabilities, determines improvements, and applies the industry's applicable best practices to enhance organizational efficiency and effectiveness. Communicates complex processes to customers in a manner that is easily understood and effortlessly establishes collaborative working relationships with internal and external representatives at all levels across the organization. Continually anticipates customers needs, identifies problems, and seeks mutual resolutions.  Security+ Certificate; TS Clearance w/ SCI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Team Technician (Mission Defense Team) 53rd Computer Systems Squadron - Eglin AFB, FL June 2018 to Present Executes critical mapping and circuit analysis of mission essential networking systems for 42 aircraft platforms and 800 various global sites locations  ? Manages $55M of Cyber Operations assets in multi-service data distribution system  ? Manages deployment of the Cyber Defense Toolkit to provide threat detection capabilities for more than 1,000 war fighting aircraft stationed at 22 separated units  ? Conducts vulnerability assessments to detect and mitigate malicious activity  ? Launched Combat Shield cyber evaluations and hygiene tests across 8M files  ? Created cyber data retention policy to preserve $55M of historical data system  ? Expanded storage system by 250% to remove redundancies and consolidate items  ? Established collaborative working relationships with intelligence support personnel  ? Maintains accountability of $193K of cyber systems tools and data center assets  ? Navigated port security project to reinforce switches-- cleared 4,000 vulnerabilities  ? Reestablished NATO database connections when top secret intelligence was sent from the Airborne Warning and Control System (AWACS) during critical aircraft maneuvers Systems Administrator United States Air Force - Eglin Village, FL September 2015 to Present Security Systems Administrator 53rd Computer Systems Squadron - Eglin AFB, FL April 2016 to June 2018 Migrated support services of 64 networks and 148 servers located at various sites for exercise operations  ? Responsible for daily operations of a $42.5M data center and advanced systems  ? Oversaw the daily operations of the Air Force's only Electronic Warfare (EW) Integrated Reprogramming (EWIR) Help Desk-- resolved problems and issues for personnel located at 800 joint sites worldwide  ? Ensured vital database support to over 2,300 users located at 22 separated units  ? Administered server decommission plan to reduce redundant systems by 9%-- reduced yearly costs by $6,000  ? Resolved network outages issues by replacing power modules at 96 intelligence analysts stations within three hours-- restored access to EWIR systems and ceased future interruptions to mission operations  ? Unified data systems for the HVAC installation and relocated five systems-- reduced the amount of utilized space by 50% to enable a newly identified project the ability to obtain necessary equipment as mandated  ? Prevented critical data loss during consolidation of 95 terabytes and backup suites  ? Selected to execute the squadron's network configuration, valued at $32K, to increase bandwidth by 1000% and accelerate master file data processes 10 times normal speed-- successfully migrated 37 devices  ? Built cut-over plans for network storage systems to reduce electronic footprint by 50%-- increased capabilities by 400% while preserving collaborative services  ? Routinely led safety inspections to identify deficiencies  ? Migrated support services of 64 networks and 148 servers located at various sites for exercise operations Education B.A in Computer Networks and Cyber Security University of Maryland University College January 2021 A.A. in Information Systems Technology Community College of the Air Force August 2017 Skills System Administrator, Active Directory, Vmware, System Admin Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: SrA Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ April 2016 to April 2022 Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) October 2018 to October 2021 ITIL v3 April 2019 to Present