Jr Devops Jr Devops Jr Devops - Data Service Group Inc District Heights, MD I am a motivated IT professional with hands on systems administration and System configuration. Enthusiastic team player, i am always looking for innovative and efficient engineering solutions. Am also an energetic self-starter capable of learning quickly with minimal guidance. I am seeking to progress my career in the Information Technology sector where I will use my skills and experience in system maintenance and technical troubleshooting to contribute to an active growth and productivity of the company. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Jr Devops Data Service Group Inc - Bear, DE December 2017 to Present • Working with Dev team, making modifications on the code using Git VCS to clone, add, commit and push codes from local and master branches to central repositories.  • Creating new Ansible YAML, Play-books, Roles and bash shell scripts for application deployments.  • Collaborating with Dev and Prod teams to ensure smooth running of the pipeline.  • Verify and troubleshoot failed maven builds on Jenkins, verifying artifact id, and date stamps on Nexus.  • Troubleshoot, document and communicate failed builds to the Dev team.  • Deploy snapshots of application codes to Dev and SIT/QA environments using playbooks and roles.  • Participate in daily scrum to improve system performance, and automation capabilities.  • Searching and testing open source applications and software to integrate into the infrastructure.  • Creating documentation resources to aid in future troubleshooting issues, to interact with users and business partners to design solutions for current and future business problems including cloud Migration solutions.  • Monitor system infrastructure against zero downtime, perform periodic backups, and troubleshoot failures.  • Collaborate with business partners to perform software enhancing testing and scans.  • Resolve package Management dependency issues.  • Messages to appropriate teams in different environments within the organization.  • Installation, configuration and hardening of Bare Metal Linux servers,  • working with security team on future patching needs.  • Installation and Configuration of the APACHE web Server on Linux platforms,  • Troubleshoot and access log files for errors and web access traffic. Linux Systems Administrator Data Service Group Inc - Bear, DE September 2016 to Present • Vulnerability assessments, performing upgrades and Patching.  • Managing physical, virtual, and network storage (HD's, LVM's, NFS, SAMBA, NAS).  • Using command line and software server/application monitoring and process management tools  • Perform installation, configuration, monitoring and troubleshooting of LAMP.  • User/group administration, file/directory security, authentication and access management (SSH, Firewalls).  • Configuring SElinux and Tripwire intrusion detection security software.  • Configuration and management of network services (HTTP, NFS, SCP NTP).  • Troubleshoot boot issues, identify and resolve service failures affecting boot.  • Resolve package management dependency issues.  • Collect system information to aid in troubleshooting, document resources, monitor for any behavior modifications and intrusion.  • Installation, configuration, and Hardening of standalone Linux servers.  • Performing periodic system updates/Patches. Help desk technician Swift Staffing - Lefkosa TRNC February 2015 to June 2016 • Monitoring Operations and collaborating with employees Help Desk level2 Tech Support  • Network installation and connectivity tasks for business clients.  • Providing fast customer service satisfaction in a quota driven environment,  • providing accurate customer support to clients all over Europe of English, French and Turkish, Italian language backgrounds.  • Hardware assembly and quality control.  • Testing and troubleshooting new applications.  • Providing end-user system support, resolving access and connectivity issues.  • Collaborate with IT professional to track company asset inventory database. Education Bachelor's in engineering Biomedical engineering - lefkosa - TRNC Skills Apache, Linux, Shell scripting, Firewalls, Nas, Virtualization, Git, Jenkins, Scripting, Lamp, Web server, Http, Mysql, Oracle, Bash, Jira, Version control, Deployment, Process management, Control systems, Linux Administrator, Redhat, System Administrator, Red Hat Additional Information Skills    • Bash Shell Scripting,  • Version Control Systems: Git, bitbucket  • Continuous Integration: Jenkins, Nexus  • Automation/Deployment: Ansible,  • Virtualization: Oracle Virtual Box,  • Platforms: Linux Centos 6 & 7 RHEL 6 and 7, Ubuntu  • Storage: LVM, NAS  • Web server: Apache  • Ticketing: Jira/kanban board/Confluence/  • Strong verbal and written communication skills  • Experience with MySql, Apache web Server, error.log,  • Customer service, help desk  • Firewalls, HTTP, inventory, LAMP,  • Process management,  • Redhat Linux, SAMBA,  • Scrum,  • System Administrator Tech Support, troubleshooting,  • Server Patching,  • Good understanding on Linux commands