Systems and network Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> and network <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator Biloxi, MS Resourceful System Administrator able to respond to a wide range of challenges with a focused and creative approach. Highly effective at problem solving and decision making. 5 years of dynamic IT experience. Work Experience Systems and network Administrator The people’s bank - Biloxi, MS October 2018 to Present System Administrator DOD-USMC - Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune, NC July 2017 to Present Personally responsible for updating and maintaining the USMC east coast enterprise network,  ? Evaluated latest innovations and adopted cost-effective, useful solutions.  ? Resolved issues and escalated problems with knowledgeable support and quality service.  ? Optimized system security and performance with proactive changes.  ? Maintained a flexible schedule and responded to after-hours and weekend emergencies in a timely manner.  ? Standardized job tasks and trained junior team members on best practices and standards.  ? Planned and implemented upgrades to system hardware and software.  ? Directed onsite training for business users to maximize productivity.  ? Consistently met deadlines and requirements for all production work orders.  ? Monitored network performance and provided network performance statistical reports for both real-time and historical measurements.  ? Trained junior members of IT team regarding network security and troubleshooting of data circuits.  ? Advocated for end-users to perform testing and problem analysis for server, desktop and IT infrastructure work.  ? Ensured network, system and data availability and integrity through preventative maintenance and upgrades. System Administrator DOD-USMC - Camp Hanson, Okinawa July 2015 to July 2017 Lead a team of more than 30 communication specialist, programmers, and network technicians, who all then provided technical support to the united state as well as its allies while in a foreign county.  ? Planned and implemented upgrades to system hardware and software.  ? Evaluated latest innovations and adopted cost-effective, useful solutions.  ? Standardized job tasks and trained junior team members on best practices and standards.  ? Configured, tested and maintained network equipment.  ? Worked with users to determine areas in need of improvement.  ? Optimized system security and performance with proactive changes.  ? Diagnosed and troubleshot UNIX and Windows processing problems and applied solutions to increase company efficiency.  ? Recommended architectural improvements, design solutions and integration solutions. Education USMC Communications Electronics School - Palms, CA 2015 High School Diploma Stone High School - Wiggins, MS 2014 Skills ARCHITECTURE (Less than 1 year), BACKUPS (1 year), CISCO (5 years), CODING (2 years), COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (5 years), Active Directory, System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin, SCCM Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: E-4 Certifications/Licenses Security+ January 2017 to January 2020 Additional Information Skills  ? Troubleshooting  ? User support  ? Project management  ? Infrastructure planning  ? System upgrades  ? Reporting and documentation  ? Servers expertise  ? CISCO router management  ? Team oversight  ? Database design  ? Team leadership  ? Enterprise technologies    ? Power distribution techniques  ? System backups  ? Coding and modularization  ? Remote access technology  ? Customer service  ? Data backup and retrieval  ? Storage hardware architecture  ? Computer programming  ? Windows and Linux  ? Network upgrades