Developer and Systems Administrator Developer and <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Minneapolis, MN Work Experience Developer and Systems Administrator Minneapolis, MN April 2018 to Present Developed and maintained several medium-to-large scale projects on a variety of platforms including different forms of the LAMP stack and .NET MVC.  ? Lead developer for one of our largest clients utilizing a variation of the MEAN stack.  ? Launched an internal time tracking application using Django to reduce over-budget  accounts.  ? Created tools to interact with the JIRA Service Desk API and the Slack API to provide  better knowledge into our client satisfaction, ticket completion rate, and SLA adherence  ? Assisted our Backend Development and Application Maintenance teams with systems-level development insights for a variety of projects.  ? Created and integrated a system of tools to automate our update process for our hosted  web applications using Lambda, Bash, and Python. System Administrator and Research Assistant University of Minnesota - Minneapolis, MN August 2014 to May 2018 Managed locally-hosted databases, including routine backups and system checks, consisting of several nodes and RAID configurations.  ? Facilitated communication between various researchers to gather information about configuration and development of our software. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science College of Science and Engineering, University of Minnesota - Minneapolis, MN 2014 to 2018 Skills C++, DJANGO, DOCKER, Git, HTML, Linux, Linux Administrator, System Administrator, System Admin Additional Information Skills    Languages Python, JavaScript/jQuery, HTML, PHP, CSS/Sass, Bash, Java, C++    Operating Systems Windows Server, CentOS, Fedora, Ubuntu, Mac OS X    Frameworks Django, jQuery, Node, Angular, Wordpress, Drupal, Magento, Express, React,  Ruby on Rails    Databases Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL, MongoDB    Infrastructure and Software AWS, Azure, DigitalOcean, Jenkins, Docker, Gulp, Git, Bitbucket    Strengths Self starter, detail attentive, project leader, driven learner