Business Systems Consultant 3 Business <span class="hl">Systems</span> Consultant 3 Charlotte, NC A knowledgeable professional well-versed in legal and business guidelines and corporate governance best practices.    Skills:  • Corporate Compliance  • Enforcing Regulations  • Interpreting and implementing compliance obligations  • Strong problem solving and decision making skills  • Risk Management  • Data Analysis  • Advanced Microsoft Office Skills  • Creating and maintaining risk and compliance policies and procedures Work Experience Business Systems Consultant 3 Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC September 2018 to Present • Oversee all ORM and the process of Technology Risk Management from centralized review.  • Ensure ORM and ACO engagement.  • Report/presentation development for various requests from Risk leadership and ETR CC – detailed, in-depth analysis of status, remediation progress, interpretation of data, and reduction of complex issues to easily digestible slides for use by the VPPI program or leadership.  • Meeting facilitation, effort coordination, and presentation of reporting/analysis.  •    Tracking and follow-ups with the necessary teams to ensure that the datasets are being provided for the Risk Validation, that the datasets are correct and comprehensive, that any discrepancies have been resolved, and that the various SORs for these areas are properly updated.  • Prepared and completed forms for regulatory requirements as needed, including accurate and sufficient narratives.  • Detailed review and validation of Patching. Fiduciary Procedural Consultant-AML/BSA Regulatory Consultant Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC October 2017 to March 2018 • Maintained accurate knowledge of the laws applicable to money laundering, including Bank Secrecy Act (BSA), The Patriot Act, U.S. Treasury AML guidelines, OFAC requirements and Suspicious Activity Reporting requirements.  • Investigations - Conduct AML Investigations consistent with Investigations procedures. Performed account/transaction research as needed. Conducted background investigations as required. Conducted extensive, complex investigations and is responsible for investigations across all lines of business.  • Prepared and completed forms for regulatory requirements as needed, including accurate and sufficient narratives.  • Reviewed and researched suspect items and/or transactions and report suspicious activity  • Communicated with AML Compliance Manager any customer activities and trends that could implicate potential money laundering or terrorist financing.  • Stayed apprised of regulatory matters and developments through regular review of appropriate compliance publications and websites and by participating in relevant compliance conferences and other training events.  • Applied knowledge of company policies and standard practices to resolve problems.  • Analyzed issues and used judgment to make decisions relating to the filing of suspicious activity with FINCEN. Underwriter/Escrow Administrator First American Financial Title & Trust Company - Charlotte, NC October 2015 to August 2017 • Provided underwriting support, counsel, and authorization to company personnel, agents, and customers, related to the issuance of real estate title insurance commitments and policies.  • Managed three accounts of $25+ million title insurance program that consisted of researching and analyzing risks throughout North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia for the purpose of underwriting a title insurance policy.  • Collaborated with peers to develop prospecting initiatives in the local branch that resulted in exceeding the yearly business goal.  • Counseled customers, brokers, and appropriate attorneys for clients in efforts to provide guidance and interpreted materials to help ensure their understanding of the company requirements regarding title insurance policies.  • Opened escrow transactions; developed and obtained appropriate escrow documentation in accordance with policy and procedures and applicable statutory and Federal regulations. Education Juris Doctor CHARLOTTE SCHOOL OF LAW 2017 Master of Business Administration in Finance JOHNSON & WALES UNIVERSITY 2013 Bachelor of Science in Economics NORTH CAROLINA A&T STATE UNIVERSITY 2010 Additional Information SKILLS    • Experience working with various agreements  • Risk Management  • Able to assemble and present Executive Level Presentations  • Able to research, compile, and perform complex analysis on data  • Expert Microsoft Office Skills  • Excellent written, verbal and interpersonal communication skills  • Legal and Business Acumen  • Able to interact with all levels of an organization  • Strong analytical skills with high attention to detail and accuracy