Information Assurance Engineer Information Assurance Engineer Network Administrator Southampton, MA Highly flexible and detail oriented network administrator with over 5 years experience in dynamic and fast paced environments. Provided network support through troubleshooting connectivity issues, ethernet cabling, and IP routing . Eager to learn new technologies and practices best suited to accomplish tasks. Proven ability to succeed in different roles and manage complex obstacles. Work Experience Information Assurance Engineer General Dynamics Mission Systems - Pittsfield, MA May 2014 to September 2014 • Performed log file audits of Windows Servers/Clients, Red Hat Servers, and Solaris Unix systems.  • Monitored programs to ensure security policies detailed by the system security plan were followed.  • Assisted with the development and maintenance of system security plans ensuring compliance with Security Technical Implementation Guides and information assurance vulnerability management processes. Systems Administrator/Network Administrator 5th Special Security Communications Team, USMC - Camp Lejeune, NC 2012 to 2014 • Provided network and system administration support of multiple classified networks for the 2nd Marine Division G-2.   • Coordinated with the network operations center to trouble shoot all issues pertaining to the networks to resolve trouble tickets while providing help desk support to a wide range of users.  • Supported the intelligence analysis systems including all services and software applications, voice over IP services, video teleconferencing, and print services.  • Temporarily assigned duty supervising the 3rd Marine Expeditionary Force's Direct Support Intelligence Cell (DSIC) helpdesk in support of Operation Enduring Freedom.  • Configured and maintained patches for various intelligence analysis servers including Windows and Linux servers.  • Worked closely with software engineers to troubleshoot database servers for intelligence analysis software.  • Configured and maintained Cisco switches in support of field exercises supporting over 100 users.   • Served as a Communications Security Representative between the Division G-2 and Division G-6 Communications Security Material System Staff on all matters pertaining to Electronic Keying Material, utilized by the Division G-2.   • Administered NetApp FAS storage utilized by intelligence analysts. Systems Administrator/Network Administrator 3rd Intelligence Battalion, USMC - Camp Hansen, Okinawa 2010 to 2012 • Performed system/network administrative duties for a battalion level unit across multiple classified networks in a fast-paced environment with high rates of personnel changes.  • Provided helpdesk support for the battalion utilizing SharePoint to manage and track trouble tickets.  • Built and configured domain controllers, exchange servers, and intelligence analysis servers utilized by the battalion for use in field exercises.  • Maintained active directory utilizing group policies and organizational units for the battalion.  • Conducted system briefings to the unit and unit commanding officer.  • Configured and maintained Cisco switches and routers for use on secure networks utilizing port security, ACLs, and VLANs.  • Set up and administered network printers, VOIP technologies, and video teleconferencing equipment (Tandberg, POLYCOM).  • Validated and built over 20 domain controllers and Exchange servers to ensure compliance with Department of Defense Information Assurance and Defense Information Systems Agency policies for over six joint service exercises. Education Bachelor's in Environmental Science Westfield State University - Westfield, MA 2015 to 2019 Special Intelligence Systems Administrator/Communicator Course in System/Network Administration; Network Security; Cryptography and Cryptographic Systems; Satellite/Radio Communications Center for Information Dominance Corry Station - Pensacola, FL 2009 to 2010 Skills Active Directory, Networking (Cisco), Microsoft Office, Technical Support, Windows 7/8/10, Windows Server 2008/12, Customer Service, eEye Retina Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: Sergeant Certifications/Licenses CCENT May 2019 to May 2022 CompTIA Network+/Security+ May 2011 to October 2017