Unix/Linux/Windows Systems administrator Unix/Linux/Windows <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span> Unix/Linux/Windows Systems administrator - TRINITECH CONSULTING Inc Greenbelt, MD TRINITECH CONSULTING Inc., Beltsville, Md, 20705  Unix/Linux/Windows Systems administrator:  May 2016 - present  • Experience working with Operating Systems and Applications including:  • Windows NOS vista, 7, 8, and 10; Centos 6.4; Redhat Enterprise Linux 6.4 and Solaris 10.  • v Experience installing and configuring Oracle Virtual Box host as well as setting up multi-platform VM guest system.  • Proficient and knowledgeable in the following, with hands-on experience:  • v Installing and configuring of Windows Servers, Linux and Unix OSs from scratch and introducing them to a network.  • v Building and configuring guest systems on Oracle Virtual Box, bridging guest systems to communicate with other physical LAN systems.  • v Configuring Windows NOS and Unix clients to join the local domain, as well as configuring file and print sharing to enable resource sharing.  • v Assigning hostnames, static IP addresses, default gateway addresses and DNS addresses to Linux, Unix, and windows Servers OSs to introduce them to a network.  • v Manually configuring IPv4 on Windows NOS, Servers, Linux and Unix OSs.  • v Using TCP/IP troubleshooting tools to troubleshoot and resolve network connectivity issues, Default Gateway issues, IP address issues and DNS related issues in a LAN. Troubleshooting connectivity issues in a LAN using tools like Ping, tracert, arp, nslookup and resolving operating system malware.  • v Experience in creating user accounts in Windows and Unix.  • v Performing User and Security management in Windows and Unix Systems  • v Managing Windows, Solaris and Linux Operating System file systems, including ext4, ZFS, UFS and NTFS file systems.  • v Experience in Disk Management in Unix (ufs) and Linux (Ext4)  • v Experience in Volume Management in Unix (zfs, svm) and in Linux (lvm).  • v Managing Swap configurations in Linux and Unix systems.  • v Managing software installation/software patches using yum and rpm.  • v Creating soft or symbolic links, remotely assessing Servers using putty terminal emulator, transferring files using WinSCP emulator, transferring files between UNIX, Linux, and Windows systems.  • Modifying the content of text files using the "vi" text editor.  • v Used secure tools like SCP, SSH and wget to securely transfer data over the network in a  • multiplatform environment. Work Experience Unix/Linux/Windows Systems administrator TRINITECH CONSULTING Inc - Beltsville, MD May 2016 to Present • Experience working with Operating Systems and Applications including:  • Windows NOS vista, 7, 8, and 10; Centos 6.4; Redhat Enterprise Linux 6.4 and Solaris 10.  • v Experience installing and configuring Oracle Virtual Box host as well as setting up multi-platform VM guest system.  • Proficient and knowledgeable in the following, with hands-on experience:  • v Installing and configuring of Windows Servers, Linux and Unix OSs from scratch and introducing them to a network.  • v Building and configuring guest systems on Oracle Virtual Box, bridging guest systems to communicate with other physical LAN systems.  • v Configuring Windows NOS and Unix clients to join the local domain, as well as configuring file and print sharing to enable resource sharing.  • v Assigning hostnames, static IP addresses, default gateway addresses and DNS addresses to Linux, Unix, and windows Servers OSs to introduce them to a network.  • v Manually configuring IPv4 on Windows NOS, Servers, Linux and Unix OSs.  • v Using TCP/IP troubleshooting tools to troubleshoot and resolve network connectivity issues, Default Gateway issues, IP address issues and DNS related issues in a LAN. Troubleshooting connectivity issues in a LAN using tools like Ping, tracert, arp, nslookup and resolving operating system malware.  • v Experience in creating user accounts in Windows and Unix.  • v Performing User and Security management in Windows and Unix Systems  • v Managing Windows, Solaris and Linux Operating System file systems, including ext4, ZFS, UFS and NTFS file systems.  • v Experience in Disk Management in Unix (ufs) and Linux (Ext4)  • v Experience in Volume Management in Unix (zfs, svm) and in Linux (lvm).  • v Managing Swap configurations in Linux and Unix systems.  • v Managing software installation/software patches using yum and rpm.  • v Creating soft or symbolic links, remotely assessing Servers using putty terminal emulator, transferring files using WinSCP emulator, transferring files between UNIX, Linux, and Windows systems.  • Modifying the content of text files using the "vi" text editor.  • v Used secure tools like SCP, SSH and wget to securely transfer data over the network in a  • multiplatform environment. Education Bachelor's Degree in public law in Public Management UNIVERSITY OF YAOUNDE - YAOUNDE, CM September 1993 Skills LINUX (3 years), RED HAT (3 years), SOLARIS (3 years), UNIX (3 years), VM (3 years), ORACLE, Redhat (3 years), System Administrator (3 years), Linux Administrator (3 years), Vmware (3 years), Veritas (3 years), Microsoft office (3 years)