Level 3 Technician Level 3 Technician Level 3 Technician - NCR Aurora, CO Level3 support technician with 5+ years of proven experience in the hospitality information technology field. PCI-DSS QIR and Dell TechDirect Client certified. Confirm, harden, and maintain the Windows base images for POS end-user hardware. Perform essential computer hardware, software, and network troubleshooting for end-user workstations, POS, and on-prem servers. Supplied CCTV monitoring and basic technical troubleshooting while in hospital security. Was the contact person for the networking, CISCO, and Sprint vendors at Porter Adventist Hospital. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Level 3 Technician NCR Corp. - Arvada, CO February 2019 to Present L3 escalation technician for NCR. Aloha POS end-user support. Identify recurring issues, research the root cause, and implement permanent solutions. Train L1 and L2 technicians best practice troubleshooting methods in order to best assist client in a timely and efficient manner. In-depth knowledge of Windows OS, including regedit, GPO, and secpol. Read and decipher Event Viewer logs, debout logs, and other error logs in order to locate the root cause of issues. Configure cfg files. Read, write, and create batch files. Other duties as assigned. Jr. Systems Administrator BECPOS September 2017 to February 2019 • Create, edit, harden, capture, and apply images for POS servers and terminals • Computer staging for new hires and existing replacements • Monitor edge firewall • Monitor alerts and logs for anomalies • New Hire integration o AD, Exchange, ActiveSync, Splashtop, e-Automate, BEC wiki, set up profile on PC with all necessary internal programs, Mitel phone system, door code alarm system • Termination procedures o Remove from infrastructure, repurpose or recycle PC • First level response to end-user issues • First level response to infrastructure issues • Coverage of all immediate IT needs - escalated to IT manager if necessary • Maintain assets • Other projects as assigned Level 1 and 2 Technical Support BECPOS October 2015 to February 2019 technical support • Troubleshoot hardware, software, and network • Phone and on-site support • Connected Payments support • Research and resolve escalated issues • NCR Aloha Mobile technical support o Staging and installation • Electronic Draft Capture (EDC) support o Credit Card reconciliations • Work side-by-side with other third party IT support techs • Troubleshoot Windows OS components that integrate with the Aloha software and network • MobileBytes technical support Education High school Skills Mitel, Technical support, Cisco, Nas, Networking, Active Directory, Windows, Mac, access, Call Center, Customer Service, Customer Support, Desktop Support, Help Desk, Helpdesk Support, Service Desk, Tech Support Certifications/Licenses PCI-DSS QIR Certified January 2018 to January 2021 PCI Compliance Dell TechDirect 1000 Client Foundations July 2018 to Present Additional Information SKILLS  Technology:  Windows (XP-10 and server class)  Mac OSX  Microsoft Office  CCTV  Mobile (Android, iOS, Windows)  Powershell, CMD, Linux  Point Of Sales Systems  -Aloha, MobileBytes, Aloha Mobile  Web Design  -HTML, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap 3/4  Technical Support  -Hardware, Software, Internet, Networking, Point Of Sales  System Administration  -Windows Client and Server class, AD, Hyper-V, NAS, Asset Management, Fortimail, Mitel, Imaging, GPO  Networking  -Mikrotik, Aerohive, Ubiquiti, CISCO  Virtual Machines  -Hyper-V, Parallels Desktop, VMWare  FANTASIA LIRA  (720)404-5887  flira81@gmail.com