Network & Systems Administrator Network &amp; <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network & Systems Administrator - FANNIE MAE Herndon, VA • Over 5 years of progressive experience in Network Protocols, Communication Network and Firewalls. Comprehensive Cisco technology knowledge in designing, implementation, administration and support. In-depth knowledge of deploying IP protocols and troubleshooting.  • Installing, configuring and troubleshooting of network devices like Cisco Routers, Nexus, ASR and Cisco Switches.  • Extensive knowledge and experience in routing protocols as RIP, OSPF, EIGRP and BGP.  • Hands on experience of firewalls Cisco PIX and Cisco ASA.  • Experience in preparing Technical documentation using Microsoft VISIO/Office.  • Excellent problem solving, troubleshooting and written documentation skills.  • Experience in performing firmware upgrades and capture restarts.  • Good knowledge in packet capturing, troubleshooting on network problems with Wireshark.  • Providing documentation by creating MOPs and VISIO diagrams for the network designing team.  • Monitoring system Health and trigger performance for all applications in the enterprise environment using tools like Extrahop, Solarwinds.  • Worked extensively on Juniper MX series Router and EX series Switches  • Palo Alto Networks Solutions (Next Gen Firewalls, IPS, Wildfire Sandbox, Web filtering, Threat Monitoring, Global Protect VPN, etc.)  • Responsible for Datacenter Design and Deployments  • Handled the maintenance and Deployment of all servers.  • Proficient in usage of Microsoft VISIO as tools for technical presentation and documentation.  • Extensive experience in Planning, Implementation, Configuring, Testing and Troubleshooting of networking system. Competent in handling escalating problems.  • Configure and maintain Site-to-site VPN solution for Remote users.  • Troubleshoot, maintain, upgrade, and provide wireless solutions to solve hardware/software problems  • Support and work within the ITIL support structure for Change, Problem and Capacity management  • Received and solved customer service tickets and you take over the documentation of service cases and solutions.  • Basic understanding of Splunk dashboards and Splunk alerts.  • Handled the troubleshooting of network problems. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Network & Systems Administrator FANNIE MAE - Reston, VA April 2018 to Present • Part of the core implementation team to deploy the ExtraHop infrastructure in both the primary and disaster recovery data centers - UTC and OOR  • Day to day responsibilities include Onboarding new applications and Monitoring network activity and wired data analytics for critical applications, upgrades to dashboards, device groups, triggers and alerting in UTC and OOR.  • Participated in production support and helped triage several issues with application owners and several teams with application monitoring setup on ExtraHop.  • Utilized ExtraHop to assist in network and application triaging several issues like DNS, Database issues, HTTP errors, taking packet captures, analyzing packet captures using Wireshark  • System Admin Responsibilities include SSL certificates requests, giving read-only access for new users, Capture Restarts, applying Licenses and configuring SNMP alerts in all the ExtraHop Appliances.  • Provides operational and project support for enterprise initiatives.  • Configuring and troubleshooting of various routing protocols such as RIP, OSPF and EIGRP  • Experience in Layer 3 Routing Protocol configurations: RIP, OSPF, BGP, EIGRP, MPLS and Cisco ACS protocols like RADIUS and TACACS.  • Installation of Enterprise Splunk servers, Deployment servers, Universal forwarders, Indexers.  • Onboarding syslog to Splunk, Monitoring health check of Splunk servers.  • Configured Network Device such as switches, routers Wireless equipment  • Implement, and support WLANs by performing and documenting 802.11 wireless surveys.  • Implement and modify DNS entries and managing IP Addresses.  • Configured and Maintained rules on Palo Alto Firewalls & Analysis of firewall logs using various tools.  • Configuring Palo Alto policies and setting different device configurations.  • Experienced configuring and troubleshooting active/passive HA on Palo Alto Devices.  • Troubleshoot, maintain, upgrade, and provide wireless solutions to solve hardware/software problems  • Knowledge in network management tools like Wireshark, SolarWinds.  • Experienced in Synthetic monitoring via Catchpoint to detect, troubleshoot whether the issue is on the DNS, response time or connection issues.  • Ensured that SolarWinds monitoring tools were accurate and functioned appropriately for network management and real-time event notification.  • Involved in triaging and troubleshooting firewall issues using different network management tools.  • Experience in F5 LTM load balancer to configure DNS Ip address  • Created and updated tools training documentation  • Define and Document standards for configuring and implementing Azure Services (network, security configurations, and identity) for delivery teams.  • Provide production network deployment, configuration, support and upgrades of Load balancing, DNS, and Sys Logging services  • Support and work within the ITIL support structure for Change, Problem and Capacity management. Network Engineer Federal Credit Union - Anchorage, AK October 2017 to March 2018 • Analyzed traffic and troubleshooting  • Created and maintained network documentation  • Designed, developed, implemented, analyzed the functionality of Client internal network  • Designed, installed, maintained, and supported LAN, WAN and VoIP infrastructures at all locations  • Establishing networking environment by designing system configuration, directing system installation, defining, documenting, and enforcing system standards  • Identify network problems and resolve in accordance Incident and Problem Management procedures, policies, and SLAs  • Basic understanding of Splunk dashboards and Splunk alerts.  • Installed, configured, and maintained monitoring and management tools needed to provide services, resolve problems, and manage growth  • Troubleshooting issues related to owned and managed network devices•  • Designed and implemented large scale virtual private network for all sites.  • Configured and maintained routers, switches and monitoring network traffic for potential threats to the network.  • Created VPN tunnel configurations for new site requirements and troubleshot existing IPSEC VPNs  • Analyzed and troubleshot performance of applications deployed in LAN and WAN to find out root-causes: network, optimization, application or compatibility between deployed network devices using Wireshark.  • Updated firewall rules for access to web hosts and file transfer systems and managing change requests  • Redesigned the network architecture for Large Scale Virtual Private Network for two data centers  • Performed Layer2 implementation for VLANS and trunk configuration on Fast-Ethernet channel between switches  • Scripted PowerShell reports to check for user account audit compliance.  • Palo Alto Networks Solutions (Next Gen Firewalls, IPS, Wildfire Sandbox, Web filtering, Threat Monitoring, Global Protect VPN, etc.)  • Used the ExtraHop to troubleshoot imaging network issues, as well as to gain information on client computers for data transfer and information gathering.  • Site to Site Virtual Private Network Design and Configuration 'Fortinet FortiGate's 100/600 Firewalls  • Configured and performed troubleshooting on link state protocols like OSPF in single area and multiple areas.  • Implement Network Security Groups to control access to Azure cloud network resources.  • Provided technical services and support for the network, backups, and monitoring of systems.  • Worked projects as needed to upgrade to new and/or improved communication equipment and procedures Network Engineer, Mid COCA-COLA COMPANY - Atlanta, GA May 2016 to September 2017 • Primary duties are network management and support/maintenance application software; responding to user system problems, testing/installing new components  • Working knowledge of routing protocols [OSPF, MPLS]  • Basic network monitoring skills using SNMP, NetFlow  • Working knowledge of Cisco ASA firewall and VPN configuration [site-to-site, remote access]  • Highly developed verbal and written communication skills  • Coordinates and performs on-site customer work including network equipment installations, repairs, upgrades, and maintenance  • Develop network documentation, specifications, and schematics for terrestrial and wireless tactical network architectures  • Perform analysis of hardware and software solutions including tools and techniques to meet specification and design  • Help architect, design, document, and maintain datacenter network  • Hands-on operational experience working on Palo Alto next generation firewall  • Configured site to site and client to site VPN tunnels on Palo Alto next generation firewall  • Responded Incidents from monitoring/altering systems and end-users.  • Performing on call duties as required.  • Successfully developed and delivered more than 20 migrations from on-premise Exchange platforms to Office 365.  • Perform day-to-day general storage administration tasks  • Provide administration, new setup and troubleshooting for servers, sites, routing and domains  • Responsible for diagnosing and repair network outages.  • Create end-user documentation, manage checklists for migrations, Create User instructions. Assist in On-board of users to Office 365, Microsoft Exchange, Migration to Office 365, Support for existing Distribution Groups.  • Configure and manage virtual networks (Vent) in Azure Cloud.  • Maintain and manage all LAN/WAN devices on a global scale. Network Engineer Level INFOSYS - Bengaluru, Karnataka August 2014 to July 2015 • Coordinates and performs on-site customer work including network equipment installations, repairs, upgrades, and maintenance.  • Performing system administration tasks including backups and file restores, account installation and deletion, workstation, Server installation, and operating system upgrades.  • Maintaining the network security and integrity, hardware and software problems in the setup.  • Provides immediate on-call support and assists with root cause for business impacting network outages.  • Proactively performs network audits to improve network efficiency and apply corrective action to the network based on audit results  • Monitored network via SolarWinds Network Management and created network maps using Cisco Works and Visio 2003  • Troubleshoot Layers 2 & 3 TCP/IP switching, VPN  • Performed Troubleshooting end-to-end between sites related to network issues  • Analytical thinking  • Managed user accounts and computers using Active Directory  • Installed Windows XP and Windows 7 Operating system on PC's  • Used Remedy ticketing system to document any troubleshooting steps to resolve any network issues.  • Responsible to install, set up, maintain network and configure the cabling and equipment.  • Responsible for configuring and troubleshooting router/switches.  • Develop several network administration policies that made support more efficient for users.  • Troubleshooting of routing protocols, which include RIP, BGP, EIGRP, and OSPF.  • Creating general routines, documentation, systems and developing SOP to more complex issues and detailed sequences of internal program related to the successful implementation and installation of Office 365.  • Maintaining and regularly updating network documentation and network diagram using MS Visio. Education Master's Electrical Engineering University of South Alabama Bachelor's in electrical & Electronics Engineering ANITS in electrical & Electronics Engineering Andhra University Skills Networking, Windows, Technical Support, Active Directory, Vmware Additional Information Technical Skills:    Equipment's (Switches Routers)  Cisco routers (7600, 7200, 3900, 3600, series) & Cisco Catalyst switches (6500, 4900, 3750, 3500, 4500, 2900 series, juniper SRX, MX, EX Series Routers and Switches.    Routing OSPF, EIGRP, BGP, RIP, Route Filtering, Redistribution, Summarization, Static Routing.  Switching  VLAN, VTP, Inter VLAN routing &Multi-Layer Switching, Multicast operations, Layer 3 Switches, Ether channels, Transparent Bridging.    Firewalls Cisco ASA, checkpoint, Palo alto, Juniper  Load Balancer ACE Module, F5 LTM GTM  Monitoring Tools Extrahop, Catchpoint, Solarwinds, App Dynamics, Dynatrace, Splunk  Other  Microsoft Visio, Incident Management, Active directory, Windows NT 4.0 (Desktop/Server), Windows 2000/2003/2008 Server, Windows XP/Windows 7/8, LINUX, UNIX, MS Exchange server, Solaris, PowerShell, Putty, Vitalnet, TACAS, Python