CLIENT SUPPORT SPECIALIST CLIENT SUPPORT SPECIALIST CLIENT SUPPORT SPECIALIST - CITY OF AMES Work Experience CLIENT SUPPORT SPECIALIST CITY OF AMES April 2018 to Present • Provide first-response and follow-up help desk services over the phone, on site, and remote desktop support  • Install, setup, and maintain computer hardware, software, and peripheral equipment.  • Help maintain accurate hardware and software inventories, and assist in ordering equipment.  • Provide basic instruction to users on computer hardware, computer system procedures, computer software, and peripheral equipment.  • Troubleshoot and support the technology systems, including computers, laptops, monitors, printers, scanners, Point of Sale devices, and mobile devices. COMPUTER REPAIR SPECIALIST DMACC October 2017 to April 2018 • Provide on-site support by installing, delivering, and repairing computer hardware, software, peripheral devices, and media equipment on the Ankeny campus.  • Install and troubleshoot audiovisual systems including, but not limited to, Extron teaching stations, Extron speakers, TV's, microphones, and video conference equipment.  • Perform warranty repairs including failure symptoms, repairs completed, and parts used.  • Assist Helpdesk and Senior Network System Analysts to resolve all computer and media technical issues.  • Provide work direction and training to other student workers and interns. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR WOODRUFF CONSTRUCTION November 2014 to October 2017 • Tasked with setting up IT Policies and Procedures for the company.  • Provided on site, remote, and phone support of all IT equipment, including but not limited to, desktops, laptops, servers, modem/routers, printers, cell phones, tablets, drones, and more.  • Assisted in researching, choosing, setting up, and managing asset tracking software for all tools and equipment owned by the company.  • Handled procurement and set up of all technology assets in the company, including but not limited to desktops, laptops, servers, AP's, firewalls, printers, cell phones, office phones, and tablets. Education Associate in Information Technology UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX July 2014 Skills Customer service, Software troubleshooting, Team player Additional Information SKILLS & ABILITIES  • Strong Customer Service Skills  • Extensive Hardware and Software Troubleshooting Abilities  • Effective team player delivering superior results with the ability to multitask in a fast-paced environment.