Linux Systems Administrator Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Linux Systems Administrator - Indiana Department of Environmental Management Brownsburg, IN Work Experience Linux Systems Administrator Indiana Department of Environmental Management January 2019 to Present • Performed installation and configuration of CentOS/RHEL 5/6/7 operating systems.  • Installed host firewall potables for RedHat Linux.  • Automated server building using Kickstart, system imager, PXE boot.  • In charge of Upgrading, installation, configuration and administration and monitoring on Linux servers.  • Hand on Experience working with AWS RDS, Creating, updating and backups of Databases.  • Excellent in patches and packages installation on Linux/Unix Environment  • Configure, build and deploy Virtual machines and templates.  • Hands on experience in configuring ESX, ESXi and vSphere4 with virtual center management.  • Installed/configured/maintained the Linux servers NIS, DNS, NFS, Sendmail, Apache, FTP.  • Setup and management of SFTP server for file transfer services.  • Configured volume groups and logical volumes, extended logical volumes for file system growth needs using Logical Volume Manager (LVM) commands.  • Installation of local yum repository and package administration using yum and rpm. Installation of local yum repository and package administration using yum and rpm.  • Used Nagios to monitor CPU usage, inodes, memory, iSCSI disks, physical disk, file systems and network using the tool Nagios.  • Mounting & un-mounting the LUNs to the Red Hat Linux servers and troubleshooting the issues encountered.  • Performance tuning to obtain Peak activities from all Linux servers.  • Troubleshooting network connectivity and firewall issues.  • Update YUM repository and RedHat Package Manager (RPM).  • Setting up cron schedules for backups and monitoring processes.  • Configuration and administration of NIS, NFS & DNS environment • Create and maintain technical documentation for new installations and systems changes as required.  • Install and configure Jira ticketing and management servers and Confluence servers for company-wide projects.  • Installing and configuring Apache Tomcat and supporting it on Linux production servers. System Administrator Brooks Life Science - Indianapolis, IN August 2017 to January 2019 • Act as software and Instrument specialist for Laboratory Operations and Technical Support Team  • Maintain Workstation Software, IT, Database backup, Task Scheduler, and Robocopy backups, for Analytical Instruments.  • Responsible for maintaining data integrity.  • Excellent validation experience of equipment and software (UAT, execute IQ/OQ, PQ protocols).  • Administered Linux servers Linux (RHEL 6/7), for several functions including managing Apache/Tomcat server, mail server, and firewalls in both development and production environments.  • Install and configure hardware and Linux OS on over 600 servers in the network per specifications of clients.  • Experience in installation and configuration of various services - DNS, DHCP, NFS, and Send mail, Apache Web Server, Samba, LDAP, SSH, HTTP, RPM package management.  • Maintaining and Troubleshooting of FTP Server, Samba Server of the client.  • Storage Management, Created VGs, LVs, and disk mirroring, Managed LVM and file systems, Paging space management, restore and availability, Monitoring System and Network Performance.  • Perform run level checks in store on a weekly basis to ensure high availability of database and applications.  • Created and assigned file attributes & permissions, defined network protocols and ensuring TCP/IP and router connectivity  • Extensively worked on administering NIS, NFS, DNS, DHCP, Mail servers & Samba server.  • Troubleshooting user logins issues using various remote login utilities and engaged users in constructive login best practice including inculcating strong password approaches.  • Provide thorough Documentation of the various issues handled along with the resolution provided  • Install and configure Jira ticketing and management servers and Confluence servers for company-wide projects  • Monitor systems performance on all servers (Virtual memory, Disk, and CPU utilization)  • •Installation and configuration of Nagios/OMD plugin to manage remote machines.  • Installed packages and patches for Red Hat Linux servers including tools such as RPM and YUM. Jr. Linux System Administrator Covance Central Laboratory - Indianapolis, IN December 2016 to August 2017 • Act as software and Instrument specialist for Laboratory Operations and Technical Support Team  • Maintain Workstation Software, IT, Database backup, Task Scheduler, and Robocopy backups, for Analytical Instruments.  • Responsible for maintaining data integrity.  • Experience with equipment and software (UAT, execute IQ/OQ, PQ protocols).  • Setup, Troubleshoot and Configure Tomcat and Nginx servers.  • Importing Creating and setting mounts points and user-mount points.  • Define/setup network protocols, Network File Services (NFS), Samba, and Network Information Services (NIS) on Linux environments.  • Performed daily backup of systems while assisting with restoration of procedures.  • Troubleshooting and maintaining DNS Application.  • Installation and configuration of Nagios to manage remote machines and disk usage, CPU, and RAM metrics.  • Responsible for maintaining user accounts and basic service access permissions on infrastructure servers.  • Add, remove and resizing Logical volumes using LVM in Linux and implementing software RAID at installation time.  • Installation and configuration of the system-wide monitoring tool  • Install, upgrade and manage packages via RPM and YUM package management.  • Install and implement new patches to the Linux operating system software using RPM  • Provided on-call support by rotation 24/7.  • Reset password and unlock user account.  • Install and configure Jira ticketing and management servers and Confluence servers for company-wide projects  • Created and deleted user accounts enforce security and compliance rules to regarding passwords and access to computer systems.  • Keeping track of maintenance of the servers in hardware & software  • Respond to emergency calls relating to server performance, diagnosis of problems, repairing  • Install and configure Jira ticketing and management servers and Confluence servers for company-wide projects Education Health Service Management Indiana University and Purdue University Indianapolis - Indianapolis, IN December 2016 Associate in General Studies in General Studies Ivy Tech Community College - Indianapolis, IN April 2016 Skills System Administrator, Active Directory, Linux, Linux Administrator, System Admin, Vmware, Red Hat, Redhat Additional Information A dedicated Linux Systems Administrator with three years of experience building, configuring, monitoring, upgrading and maintaining systems. Extensive expertise, deploying and supporting VMware virtualization including building virtual machines, managing physical server's resources. Experience with users and groups administration, granting privileges and permissions. Possess the ability to multi-task, work with strict deadlines and eager to take on new challenges.    Skills/Applications    CentOS, OEL, Red Hat, Logical Volume Manager and partitioning, network optimization and troubleshooting, VMware, Jira, Confluence, DenyHosts, Tripwire, SSH, Putty, Microsoft Office, Lynis, GIT, NIS, WinSCP, Nginx, FTP, OMD/Nagios, Icinga, Check_MK, Thruk, Fail2Ban, AWS EC2 Deployment, Samba, Apache, DNS, ESXi, NFS, vSphere, PhpMyAdmin, Tomcat, Kickstart, Jenkins, Apache Visual Host, Visual IP and IP bonding, Nessus, Verification & Validation, IQ, OQ, PQ.