Systems and Network Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> and Network <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems and Network Administrator Belgrade, MT Work Experience Systems and Network Administrator Zoot Enterprises Inc - Bozeman, MT August 2016 to December 2017 Doing my best everyday to help coworkers solve their problems however I can  and learn as much as is possible from them in return.    • Planning and deploying network changes to firewalls, routing, DNS and web proxy.    • Patching and performing preventive maintenance on network equipment.    • Troubleshooting and resolving critical incidents at all hours.    • Supporting IT automation tasks with Puppet and Ansible.    • Managing and helping troubleshoot Apache deployments and configurations.    • Planning and deploying changes to F5 Big IP Local Traffic Managers and Global Traffic  Managers (load balancing between data centers, inside and outside certificate  management, virtual ip management, etc).    • Installing code to production environment as a member of the production install team  which included coordinating pre-install review.    • Troubleshooting full network path, application to application when possible, using tools  such as curl and Wireshark.    • Helping build, configure and troubleshoot Linux server and network reporting tools  using Elastic search, Kilbana, Logstash, simple event correlator, snmp traps and NetFlow.    • Administrating two factor authentication and logging for remote and local access to multiple environments.    • Writing scripts in bash to extract useful log information (sed, awk  and grep)    • Configuring Linux sendmail for log email alerting Service Desk Technician December 2013 to August 2016 Diagnosing and escalating new and ongoing issues. Quickly and accurately  determining issue severity and impact.    • Creating and updating documentation for corporate knowledge base (Atlassian  Confluence)    • Issue tracking and resolution (Atlassian Jira)    • Troubleshooting applications written in python, bash, perl and sql in a distributed  computing environment that provided on demand real time credit decisions.    • Changing system account passwords quarterly and for separation of employees with privileged access. I also helped maintain and improve automation tools for this process  (Python + Fabric).    • Basic administration and maintenance of the following operating systems: Windows  server 2008 and 2012, CentOS, Slackware, Solaris, RedHat and Oracle Linux.    • Training new employees. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Western Governors University Skills Linux, Vmware, Active Directory, System Administrator, System Admin