Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - First Stop Health Cloud, wireless, and security expert seeks expansion into dev and data fields. Work Experience Systems Administrator First Stop Health - Chicago, IL January 2019 to Present Took charge of internal and external office networks, including device deployment, Helpdesk management, and infrastructure support. Built physical and AWS servers, created CI/CD pipeline, and drafted network security policies. Polished skills with Ubuntu Linux, server administration, infrastructure as code and SSO. Solutions Engineer MB Financial 2018 to 2019 Handled planning, documenting, and building cloud-ready solutions to enterprise clients in retail, banking and insurance. Worked with clients to drive DevOps principles in legacy institutions. Gained skills with AWS, Git, and Docker to build secure systems, data management pipelines, and infrastructure as code. Administered working teams to beat aggressive timelines and exceed high standards with explicit outcomes. Endpoint Security Manager INT Inc 2017 to 2018 Managed security for all endpoint hardware, including update schedules, and backups. Improved security posture by identifying and retiring insecure devices. Gained experience using VMWare, Linux environments, and scripting with PowerShell & Python. Engaged automated security measures to protect local assets. Lead Help Desk Technician Berkshire Hathaway Home Services 2014 to 2017 Improved client support for regional users and cut ticket response times at help desk call line. Improved workflow to improve support for 22 Chicago area offices. Gained experience with Exchange, Office 365 and Windows Server 2012. Navigated users from legacy services and crafted responses for adverse network events. Education BA in English Literature in English Literature DePaul University - Chicago, IL Social Psychology Universidad Iberoamericano - Mexico City, MX Associate's in English University of Illinois Springfield - Springfield, IL Skills Visual studio, Git, Virtualization, Linux, Saas, Security, Comptia, Ec2, Bash, Active Directory, Linux Administrator, System Administrator, Red Hat, Vmware Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ Additional Information Skills  Proficient with Linux, Git, Bash, AWS S3, EC2, and IAM; Visual Studio Code, Office 365 and Azure Cloud.  Extensive experience with Monitoring, Hardening, High Availability, Virtualization, Automation, and SaaS Migration.  CompTIA Security+ Certified. Fluent in Spanish, conversational German.