Clarizen Systems Administrator and Implementation Expert Clarizen <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> and Implementation Expert Clarizen Systems Administrator and Implementation Expert - Equinix Ozark, MO Work Experience Clarizen Systems Administrator and Implementation Expert Equinix January 2017 to Present Supervised initial standup of Clarizen instance  * Met with business teams to identify product needs  * Worked with all teams to identify standard practices and custom needs of the solution.  ? Provide administrative support for Clarizen  ? Manage 2300+ user accounts across 4 geographic regions  ? Utilize custom workflows and fields to help the teams achieve their desired management style  ? Created custom dashboards and reports for Executive leadership and project managers  ? Worked with many different teams to create templates and profiles to match their project management methodologies  • Project Manager  ? Engaged in PM activates to help facilitate $4 billion acquisition of Verizon Data Centers  ? Managed scope items of Enterprise Application projects  ? Facilitated alignment between PMO and GTS  • Project Management System Solutions Expert  ? Lead adoption efforts for new Project Management tool Clarizen  ? Lead workshops on training and best practices for using the Clarizen tool  ? Created company documentation for standard use and functionality Sr. Business Analyst Bass Pro Shops April 2014 to January 2017 Lead team to redefine Business Analyst role within Bass Pro shops  ? Created a standard set of documentation for project management driven projects  ? Trained existing Business analyst in new role and use of standard documentation  ? Trained project management team in use of standard documentation and use of Business Analysts in projects  ? Engaged in full Business Analyst lifecycle in Agile and Waterfall structured projects  • Project Manager  ? Managed implementation of new warehouse management system  * Engaged in Scope definition, Resource Planning, and Cost Estimation  * Created milestones and deliverables to drive project plan and timeline  * Lead risk analysis and mitigation efforts  * Managed vendor budgets and level of efforts to complete deliverables  * Oversaw Go-Live and Post Go-Live support with issue detection and resolution activities  ? Lead effort to utilize ship to customer functionality with newly implemented warehouse management system  * Coordinated systems integration with USPS and FedEx for certification of packages  * Oversaw creation of end to end test scenarios  * Managed Unit Testing and issue resolution with focus on Business stakeholder involvement Support lead Accenture Federal Services February 2013 to April 2014 for United States Postal Service custom application  ? Lead teams cross applications in issue identification and solution  ? Lead cleanup effort for old defects not scheduled for release  • System Specialist, Senior Analyst  ? Created system requirements for new functionality based on To-Be Business process requirements  ? Created Technical Review Documents to aid development of new functionality Senior Consultant Cronin Business Solutions March 2010 to February 2013 • Functional Lead for Oracle Project Management module  • Trainer/Instructor at National Oracle Conventions    Mining Company (Barrick Gold - On Site in Toronto CA)  • Engaged in As-Is and Future State Business Process Definition for Capital Management, Sourcing and Asset Management  • Created As-Is and To-Be Visio process flows  • Conducted interviews with international divisions  • Documented feedback and conducted workshops with South America and Australia business divisions  • Analyzed existing financial systems and made recommendations for Finance Business Process Improvements, Projects systems implementation and end to end integration    Overseas Telecommunications Infrastructure Company (Huawei - On Site in China)  • Lead workshops to define business process and technical requirements regarding Project Management and accounting (P2P, OTC, T&L)  • Led development and integration of business solution documentation and IT solution  • Led business process development and documentation for Projects implementation  • Technical lead of Oracle Project Management  • Developed program and project definition  • Acted as go-between with IT and business leads for Project Costing, Billing, Project Management, and Project Contracts to ensure uniformity in implementation and business procedures.  • Supported workshops defining all business process requirements    Aerospace and Defense Company (AreoVironment)  • Participated in full Oracle ERP implementation from As-Is discovery through Go-Live support  • Integrated Contracts with Costing, Billing, and Project Management  • Configured Project Management to fulfill specific government requirements for auditing and reporting  • Integrated Microsoft Project with Project Management for enhanced scheduling needs  • Set-up Project Resource Management for enhanced tracking of employee data within Project Management  • Conducted interviews for requirements gathering in regards to Project Foundation, Resourcing, Expenditure, Collaboration and Change, and Project Analysis and Closure  • Managed the created all documentation including but not limited to: BR100, Configuration spreadsheet, As-Is and To-Be Process Flows and Issue tracking    Engineering and Construction Company (Burns & McDonnell)  • Implemented Oracle Project Management, Oracle Resource Management and Oracle Collaboration modules  • Created As-Is and To-Be Visio and Primavera process flows  • Implemented Work Plan/Financial Plan shared service structures  • GAP Mapped and Implemented best in class processes and procedures for Earned Value. Including actuals, managing budgets, collecting physical percent complete, and estimate to completion.  • Modified existing views using user-defined attributes  • GAP Mapped and Implemented best in class processes and procedures for Issue Tracking, Status Reporting, Change Order Tracking and Deliverable Management  • Customized Project Intelligence via Project Performance Reporting and Project Status Inquiry    Shipping Certification Company (ABS)  • Led the configuration and design of a Series of Oracle Project Modules (Patch Set L -portions of M):  ? Project Resource Management  ? Project Management  ? Project Collaboration  ? Core Oracle Projects  • Activities Included:  ? Working with Oracle Support to resolve a significant number of technical assistance requests related to the new modules  ? Completing configuration documentation (BR100) for each of the modules  ? Performing a series of integrated test scenarios/CRP's  ? Setting up multiple types of structures, fully shared, partially shared, and no sharing to meet desired business needs.  ? Configured Change management for government audit and reporting specifications Intern Covidien June 2008 to August 2008 • Researched replacement of I-131 with Ba-133 in Nuclear pharmacy neck phantoms  • Performed audits of nuclear pharmacies    System Experience  Clarizen/Clarizen One, ServiceNow, HPALM, Oracle Software / Products: Project Billing, Project Costing, Contracts, Project Management, Resource Management, Project Collaboration, General Ledger, Self-Service Web Applications, Application Developer, System Administrator  Development Tools / Languages: SQL*Plus, Swift  Tools: MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Teams, Access, Project, Visio Education B.S. in Nuclear Engineering University of Missouri - Rolla, MO May 2007