Infrastructure Security Engineer Infrastructure Security Engineer Infrastructure Security Engineer Seattle, WA Driven Security Engineer with a proven track record of learning new technologies quickly, and planning, building, testing, and implementing solutions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Infrastructure Security Engineer Yubico - Bellevue, WA November 2018 to Present As a member of the Infrastructure Security team, I work to continuously improve the security of the infrastructure that provides services to our customers, both external and internal. In this role I often collaborate with our infrastructure team and other developers in the engineering organization to provide guidance on securing their projects.  ? Created tooling to audit, monitor, and alert for third party applications with access to data in G Suite via OAuth scopes, substantially reducing the risk of company data being exposed to unauthorized third parties.  ? Developed infrastructure security monitoring infrastructure with OSQuery and Fleet. Integrated the OSQuery data with threat intelligence feeds to create real-time alerts and dashboards.  ? Provided security guidance to the infrastructure team and other employees.  ? Performed thorough security reviews of potential third party vendors. Senior Support Engineer Yubico - Bellevue, WA January 2018 to November 2018 Provided L3 technical support and deployment guidance to business customers both in the pre-sales and post-sales phases, specializing in smart card deployments.  ? Wrote automated tests for software using Python and Behave, leading to the discovery of 4 bugs and greatly reducing the amount of time needed to test for future releases of the software.  ? Created and maintained public facing documentation including technical manuals, deployment guides, usage guides, and troubleshooting articles.  ? Wrote testing methodology and performed testing for pre-release hardware and software..  ? Developed training material and trained new employees on the support team. Support Engineer Yubico - Bellevue, WA August 2017 to January 2018 Provided L1 and L2 support to business and retail customers for a wide variety of topics including Yubico products and software, as well as YubiKey features such as OTP, OATH, U2F, OpenPGP / GPG, and smart card.  ? Set up labs to test partners' integrations with the YubiKey. Documented the set up procedures, known issues, and caveats to share with the technical pre-sales team. Systems Engineer BCT - Tukwila, WA March 2015 to August 2017 Served as the technical account manager to many of the company's larger clients, providing technical guidance to address organizational goals and needs.  ? Initiated, planned, managed, and executed projects for the company's clients including on-prem to cloud or on-prem to hybrid cloud migrations.  ? Created PowerShell scripts in the company's remote endpoint management software to automate common tasks including: new user creation  ? Worked closely with the sales team to assist with pre-sales efforts, including auditing potential client networks and communicating the findings to technical and non-technical employees of the client.  ? Performed vendor assessments for backup solutions and migrated a large portion of the business' clients to the new, centralized solution. This change increased backup reliability, reduced ongoing maintenance costs, and reduced technician training time.  ? Performed virtualization hypervisor and SAN upgrades and replacements with little to no downtime.  ? Configured networking equipment for deployment to customer sites, including L2/L3 firewalls, routers, switches, Wi-Fi access points, Wi-Fi controllers, VoIP equipment, and IP security cameras. Systems Administrator BCT - Tukwila, WA March 2014 to March 2015 Supported over 1200 end points and 200 servers across more than 70 distinct customer networks.  ? Operated as the primary point of contact for two of the company's largest clients, including regular on-site visits to branches throughout the Pacific Northwest. Education Bachelor's in Cloud and System Administration Western Governors University - Seattle, WA April 2017 to April 2020 Associate in Computer Networking, Data Recovery Highline College - Des Moines, WA January 2012 to June 2014 Skills Linux, Amazon Web Services, Python, Go, Google Cloud Platform, Threat Modeling, Secure Architecture Design, Implementation Review Links https://linkedin.com/in/jamesalseth https://github.com/jalseth