Sr. VMWARE / Windows Engineer Sr. VMWARE / Windows Engineer Sr. VMWARE / Windows Engineer - Chevron Louisville, KY • Installation, configuration, and administration of Windows server 2000/ 2003/ 2008/ 2012/ 2016 and VMware vSphere, ESX 4.x, 5.x, VCenter 4.x, 5.x.  • Extensive experience with VMware VDI and Horizon 6.0  • Excellent experience and knowledge with designing, installing and implementing VMware ESXi server, VMware virtual center server, setting up V-Motion, HA, DRS, and related VMware products such as VM Workstation, VMware converter, VM Backup products and other products for virtualization  • P2V and V2V conversions by using VMware Converter  • Strong understanding of VMware Networking concepts like creation of Vswitches, different types of port groups, NIC Teaming and VLAN Problem management on VMware ESX 5.X and Virtual Center and VMotion.  • Excellent experience with VMware update manager to install patches and updates on ESX hosts and virtual machines  • Excellent experience working with Hyper-V installation, implementation and administration  • Extensive experience managing and troubleshooting Microsoft Exchange 2010 and 2013 environment.  • Experience working with Black Berry Enterprise Server Administration 5 and 10 version  • Worked with windows 2000/ 2003/ 2008/ 2008R2/ 2012 server architectures and administered them successfully and windows migrations.  • Worked in windows Active Directory (AD) environments, Group Policies and technical writing, documentation, security assessments, vulnerability assessments or other related activities.  • Extensively worked in EMC Avamar Backup technology to setup, troubleshooting and maintenance.  • Experience working with SCCM, WSUS and other patching tools.  • In depth knowledge in Terminal Services, LDAP, GPOs, IIS, DHCP, DNS.  • Experience in configuring DRS, HA, vMotion, storage vMotion, virtual networking, cloning, deploying VM's from templates and automating VMware environment.  • Creating and managing the users, groups, GPO in the Active directory.  • Excellent experience in configuring and troubleshooting Active Directory Domains, sites & services, global catalog, dns, dhcp and AD replication  • Experience in resolving all levels of Severity Tickets, root cause investigations, system outages.  • Experience in configuring VMware CPU and memory shares for virtual machines.  • Experience in building VMware virtual machines from templates and CD/ISO image.  • Experience on Group policies, SCOM, SCCM and configuring file/print services.  • Expert knowledge on configuring hardware iSCSI and NFS storage to VMware ESXi hosts from vSphere client.  • Experience in PowerShell Scripting.  • Experience in managing DNS, DHCP, Remote Desktop Session Host, DFS, NLB and Microsoft Failover Clusters.  • Experience in configuring VMware standard vSwitch & dvSwitch.  • Experience in cloning VMs and deploy new virtual machines from clones.  • Experience in migrating the virtual machines between the ESX (i) Hosts using cold migration and VMotion.  • Provided 24/7 On Call production support onsite and remotely on rotation basis.  • Ability to maintain a reliable and methodical approach to support and Documentation. Quick learner, highly motivated team player with excellent organizational and analytical skills.  • Worked in windows Active Directory (AD) environments, Group Policies and technical writing, documentation, security assessments, vulnerability assessments or other related activities. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Sr. VMWARE / Windows Engineer Chevron - Louisville, KY November 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Take charge of designing, implementing, and evaluating existing and future infrastructure initiatives to achieve the highest level of performance and efficiency  • Organize and execute system enhancements and upgrades in collaboration with system architects and project managers  • Organize and execute system enhancements and upgrades in collaboration with system architects and project managers  • Devise and deploy virtual machines, networks, and storage accounts  • Display strong competencies in infrastructure as a service (IaaS), platform as a service (PaaS), website deployments, endpoints, load balancers, cloud services and Azure resource manager (ARM) templates  • Conduct point-to-site and site-to-site network configuration in Azure and on-premise application migration to Azure cloud  • Good understanding of implementation of compute, networks and storage in Azure cloud  • Render technical support to global virtual infrastructure such as VMware and Hyper-V, including capacity planning, monitoring, and analysis  • Hold responsibility in troubleshooting and resolving issues associated with Windows performance, Internet Information Services (IIS) operations, and Active Directory  • Comply with current incident, problem, release, crisis, and change management procedures and make sound recommendation focused on process improvement  • Collaborate with Network, Application, and Backup teams in support of Windows-based product installations, customizations, and deployments  • Created base images, pools and deploy virtual desktops for all departments based on requirement.  • Experience in working with the vMotion technology and Storage vMotion and HA technology.  • Configured and maintain new VM's, install Microsoft Windows 2012 R2 Servers, manage VM's and ESX servers and install VMware Tools on VM's. Configured and managed VSphere 5, ESXi hosts and VMs.  • Support and Manage VMware 6.0 infrastructure, installation and configuration of vCenter Server.  • Interacted with business users for gathering the requirements for on boarding the applications to Azure cloud. Good Knowledge on Azure Cloud. Worked on managing disks and various storage accounts in azure.  • Expertise in troubleshooting and resolving issues in enterprise Citrix environment, Including Web Interface, application enumeration and performance issues, Printing and provisioning issues, for internal and external clients.  • Worked in Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, Virtual Server Administration, and Patch Management on Microsoft Windows Servers.  • Hands on experience in updating / upgrading ESX servers, Virtual Center servers and windows virtual machines using VMware Update manager. Restoration and Hardening of Windows Servers which are affected by Malware.  • Created thin provisioned VMs as per client application requirements and expanding Hard Disk sizes as requested. Configured VMware HA, VMware DRS, FT in acquiring higher efficiency for VMware Infrastructure.  • Migrated VMware VMs from on premises to Azure cloud  • Installed and configured Site Recovery Manager (SRM) for DR. Did Mappings and configuration of VM and data stores to DR site.  • Performed datastore migration using VMware storage vMotion on NFS, SAN Storage  • Implementation of different Host Profiles for Multiple Clusters across Multiple Data centers  • Responsible for solving ITSM (incident management) tickets for various issues related to VMware and Windows Servers. Built new virtual servers required for the customer and managed the systems.    Environment: Windows 2016/2012 R2/2008 R2/2008 Servers, Windows 10/7, VMware ESXi, vSphere 6/5, Hyper-V, vCenter 6, MS SQL Server 2014, Active Directory services, WSUS, DHCP, DNS, IIS, Citrix, vSphere Configuration manager(VCM), Azure, Jenkins, Remedy, JIRA. VMWare/ Windows System Administrator JTEKT - Cleveland, OH September 2012 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Conceptualized and executed comprehensive infrastructure solutions for various clients within a managed hosting environment  • Fulfilled various tasks such as designing, deploying, and supporting VMware virtualization environment, Windows servers, and Active Directory  • Effectively handled Exchange and Active Directory performance and replication  • Spearheaded the VMware migration project, responsible for the migration of ESXi 5.0 to 5.5 vSphere and vCenter server from 5.0 to 5.5 environment  • Developed snapshots, VM migrations, and clones, including facilitation of daily administration activities  • Held responsibility in minimizing total cost of ownership (TCO) and maintaining high availability of business-critical applications through physical-to-virtual (P2V) migration  • Launched and oversaw virtual desktop infrastructure (VDI) environment for a client, which involved configuring View Horizon application and pools as well as assigning and provisioning VDIs to application users  • Expertly managed the following projects:  ? Server consolidation projects: Reduction of number of physical servers, which entailed decommissioning and moving critical applications to virtual servers  ? AD migration project: Upgrade and migration of windows 2008 single forest single AD domain to Windows 2012 AD environment; and ? VMware migration project: Upgrade and migration of vcenter 4.5 & 5.1 to 5.5, ESXi 5.1 to 5.5  • Assumed accountability in overseeing and troubleshooting Widows OS issues including Active Directory (AD), Domain Name System (DNS), Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP), and Windows clustering  • Initiated the deployment of EMC Avamar backup and storage solutions, which involved aiding with the configuration of virtual appliances for Avamar collection servers and client agent for overall customer systems  • Installed and configured ESXi hosts, vCenter servers, configured DRS, vmotion, FT, configured datastores, extended LUNs, Template creation, working with Snapshots, VM migrations clones and performed all the major and day to day administration activities  • Configured the Hyper-V, provisioned VMs, assigned hardware resources  • Administered and Troubleshoot Windows Server OS issues, AD, DNS, DHCP and Windows Clustering  • Migrated the 2010 Exchange servers to 2013 environment, migrated all the Mailbox servers, CAS servers, user mailboxes, room mailboxes, distribution groups, contacts.  • Manage and Troubleshoot MS Exchange 2010 servers, configure connections, transports, TLS certificates, DAG group  • Monitor the mailbox and CAS servers, take appropriate actions for the issues reported, put the DB into maintenance and perform DB maintenance tasks  • Troubleshoot user outlook problems, resource mailbox issues and provide full manage mailbox permissions  • Install, configure and troubleshoot BlackBerry Enterprise server console 5.0 & 10  • Actively worked with storage team in storage migration from HDS to EMC SAN storage  • Actively worked with Backup team in implementing new Backup solution, EMC Avamar replacing TSM. Helped configure virtual appliances for Avamar collection servers and Avamar client agent for all the client systems  • Implemented, Managed and troubleshoot Antivirus servers and client issues - both Symantec and Mcafee  • Worked along with the team on adding Nodes to the existing windows clustering service for servers containing printer services  • Implemented TLS authentication in Exchange to enable communication with vendors email systems  • Worked on backup and restore of VMware host server configuration, Virtual Machine Backup, snapshot, P2V-V2V conversation with VMware converter and with other third-party converters, Patch updating, monitoring/reporting, SSH and SNMP and notification of alerts.  • Implemented third party virtual appliances from VMware vCenter server  • Proactively diagnose the AD health by using dcdiag, netdiag tools  • Managed separate VMware clusters like QA, Development and Production and VMware Update manager for Host upgrades and patches.  • Worked with Storage team to migrate Hitachi SAN storage to EMC SAN Storage  • Worked with the DCOPS if there are any issues with the hardware and that needs to be replaced  • Implemented and managed Symantec Enterprise Management technologies to secure the client infrastructure  • Worked with the Tools team in implementing Nimsoft monitoring system  • Helped configured nimsoft hub points and Nimsoft agents on client machines  • Experience working with multi-hardware platforms-Cisco UCS, IBM, HP & Dell Blade servers.  • Managed SharePoint Portal, providing permissions, creating libraries, folder and file level restrictions.  • Planned and performed patch management quarterly using Shavlik and WSUS  • Guide and help team members on the technical issues. Share best practices with the team. Key contributor to the KB articles  • VMware performance, capacity planning, monitoring, virtualization analysis, and consolidation activities using different Tools. Provided user access to the users for any required server based on the requirements.  • Profound knowledge of web server administration using: IIS 6.0/ 7.0/ 7.5/ 8.0.  • Install & troubleshoot patches and updates on ESX/ ESXi hosts and virtual machine using VMware Update manager.  • Works on security/vulnerability patching of VMware/VSphere hosts and Virtual machines, including deployment and process documentation. Worked on Migration concepts like vMotion and Storage vMotion.    Environment: VMware ESXi 4.x, 5.x Server, VMware vCenter, VMware converter, vSphere, Horizon, Hyper-V, Windows 2003/2008R2/2012 Servers, SQL Server cluster, Exchange Server 2010/2013, EOP, Symantec DLP, BES 5/10, OCS, WSUS, SCCM, Active Directory, SAN/NAS, HP ProLiant Blade Servers, IBM Proliant, Dell PowerEdge, Remote desktop services, EMC SAN, EMC Avamar Backup & Storage, IBM TSM, Tapes, ILO, HP update manager, DRAC, IBM IMM, SCOM, Symantec, Mcafee, Shavlik, Nimsoft, Unicenter, SNMP, SMTP, TCP/IP, Windows Failover Cluster, NLB, Spectrum, Firewall, Cisco UCS. Senior Systems Engineer Thomson Reuters - London June 2009 to August 2011 Responsibilities:  • Took full charge of migrating the Active Directory users' data and desktops from legacy domain with the new AD forest or domain  • Carried out the installation and configuration of the System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM) secondary site servers and SCCM roles; as well as the Branch Office Servers  • Adhered to the standard checklist upon installing the Windows 2008 and SCCM agent regarding servers to be endorsed to the Monitoring Team  • Efficiently handled the documentation of best practices and preparation of knowledge base (KB) documents of identified problems  • Guaranteed proper acknowledgment of respective resolver group regarding designated incidents, and coordinated with various teams, and closely monitored incidents to closure  • Addressed major incidents and delivered constant updates to the higher management and customer  • Served as focal point of contact for overall technical teams regarding any issues to be escalated to the client  • Installed & configured Branch Office Servers and promote it to RODC & RWDC as per the client requirements  • Follow the standard checklist after installation of windows 2008 and SCCM agent on the servers and hand it over to the monitoring team  • Planned the Disaster Recovery drive and offered regular upgrades to involve stakeholders  • Monitored Server Health closely and proactively checked for hardware issues for any part replacements using tools like Spectrum, HP openview.  • Worked in windows Active Directory (AD) environments from design to setup, maintenance and technical writing, documentation, security assessments, vulnerability assessments or other related activities  • Administered Windows 2000/ 2003/ 2008 servers and Domain controllers, DNS, DHCP, web services  • Maintaining the file server, application and Print Server.  • Troubleshoot and fix windows OS related issues  • Created User Accounts, groups and running scripts on production servers.  • Assigned local security policies on member servers and standalone servers using RDP.  • Manage and monitor Active Directory services and group policies.  • Assigning folder permissions to the users by gathering approval from the group owners.  • Efficiently created and managed various Groups (Domain Local and Global Security)  • Manage Group Policy Objects (GPOs), Organizational Units (OUs), domain controllers (DCs), and Trusts and supported DFS for file sharing.  • Proactively check the domain controllers' health and troubleshoot if any issues  • Coordinate with various internal teams like backup, network, itsm teams on regular basis  • Work with the hardware vendors in case of any faulty hardware  • Worked on Ticket process in receiving Incident tickets in Remedy Tool in 24x7 environments.    Environment: Windows 2008/2003/2000, Windows XP, Vista, SCCM, SCOM, Remedy, Quest, ADMT, Dell IFDT, IBM Blade servers, Symantec, Mcafee, WSUS, Exchange, Outlook, Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, Windows Clustering. Senior Systems Analyst ANZ Bank - AU June 2007 to June 2009 Responsibilities:  • Performed troubleshooting and repaired Windows operating system (OS) related issues  • Created users and groups including configuration of group policies  • Generated requests for proposal (RFPs) and promptly answered request for information (RFI) in collaboration with the Pre-sales Team  • Sizing hardware according to needs and requesting quotes from different vendors.  • Maintain DNS, DHCP and Trust Relationship between domains.  • Added SAN Storage on a regular basis to clusters based on capacity requirements.  • Maintained SCOM, Software Assets including licenses and 3rd Party Vendor Interaction  • Experience with MS clustering and maintain the quorum disk.  • Updating service account passwords. Supported 24*7 on call schedule for Production support.  • Installed, configured and managing network file servers, print servers and maintaining various logs.  • Maintaining Active Directory system data and file server volume backups. Monitoring Active Directory integrity and replication. Logs file analysis using the Event Viewer and troubleshooting to resolve issues  • Provided support for teams in activities such as Load testing, troubleshooting, and performance tuning  • Involved in trouble shooting and fixing day-to-day problems of the applications in production  • Analyze performance issues and provide recommendations to improve the performance of windows servers  environment.  • Served as internal change control mentor within the team and ensured all RFC's are processed properly.  • Worked with users for installation of connect direct application  • Implement and troubleshoot group policies at both computer and user level  • Created/modified user account, security groups, and distribution list to protect company proprietary information. Implemented DNS for external name resolution. Setup Managed service accounts for the domain  • Setup and troubleshoot IIS issues    Environment: Windows 2000/2003/2008R2R2/2012 Servers, Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, Windows Clustering, MS SQL Server, SCOM, GPO, FRS, NTFS, IIS, Remedy. Education Master of Business Administration in Information Technology Sikkim Manipal University Bachelor of Commerce in Computer Applications Sri Venkateshwara University Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY (9 years), DHCP (9 years), DNS (9 years), MICROSOFT WINDOWS (9 years), IIS (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    • VMware Platform Skills: VMware vSphere 5.x / 4.x, Virtual Center Server, VMware Horizon View, VMware vCenter Orchestrator, HA, DRS, Storage vMotion, Site Recovery Manager, VMware vCenter Heartbeat, VMware vCenter Converter, P2V, V2V, Capacity Planning.  • Microsoft Products and tools: Active Directory Domain Services, AD lightweight Directory Services, AD Certificate Services, Active Directory Federation Services, Exchange 2007, Exchange 2010, Hyper-V, WSUS server, SQL server 2008, Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager, Microsoft System Center Operations Manager, ADMT, SharePoint, IIS 6, IIS 7, DNS, DHCP, TCP/IP, OCS, Excel, PowerPoint, Visio  • Server Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows 2000, 2003, 2008 R2, 2012, 2016  • Cloud Technologies: Azure Cloud Implementation  • Desktop Operating Systems: Windows XP, Windows Vista, Windows 7/8/10  • Messaging: Microsoft Exchange 2010/2013, Lotus Notes  • Tools & Technologies: Symantec, Mcafee, Quest, iLO, DRAC, IMM, BlackBerry (BES), Robocopy