Propulsion Engineer / Team Lead Propulsion Engineer / Team Lead Aerospace Engineering MS Graduate Tempe, AZ Passionate Aerospace engineering graduate student with five years of experience in product design, project management, rapid prototyping, high-powered rocketry, data analysis, and corrosion research. Interested in an aerospace associate engineering position to continue work in aerospace industry. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Propulsion Engineer / Team Lead Sun Devil Rocketry Liquids Team - Tempe, AZ August 2018 to May 2019 • Designed a pressure-fed, Isopropyl Alcohol/Nitrous Oxide rocket engine to produce 200 pounds of thrust with a chamber pressure of 200 psi and a burn time of 2 seconds.  • Performed thermal analysis with ANSYS to determine chamber wall thickness and thermal profile.  • Lead a team of graduate and undergraduate engineering students overseeing the design and construction of the rocket chamber, nozzle, injectors, ignitors, and cooling. Intern / Special Projects Administrator Telgian Corporation - Phoenix, AZ May 2017 to August 2018 • Gathered and cleaned data for stewardship reports. Generated data visualizations in Excel and found opportunities for system improvement and modification regarding current customers.  • Gathered inventory data from Microsoft AX and compiled in Excel for scheduled pricing true-ups.  • Quality checked inspection reports while filing work orders to fix fire alarm failures, mechanical fire sprinkler failures, and federal fire safety violations and routed appointments all over the country for several quality inspectors.  • Worked with deadlines and provided summarized reports in a timely manner. Systems Engineer / Project Lead Sun Devil Satellite Laboratory - Tempe, AZ September 2015 to June 2018 • Lead and worked as a systems engineer with a team of multiple engineering disciplines through designing, reporting, testing, and fabrication phases.  • Designed and modeled probe in Solidworks and improved dimensions for tolerances needed for integration due to fabrication methods and 3D printing tolerances.  • Built and launched a high-powered Level 1 rocket with Cesaroni i303, 38mm, 4 grain motor. Structures and Mechanisms Lead Aerospace Engineering Capstone Project - Tempe, AZ August 2017 to May 2018 • Produced a MATLAB tool calculating the normal drag produced by slender body theory and crossflow drag to determine the aerodynamic stability of a bluff body. The tool calculated drag for sweeping angles of attack for a range of freestream velocities by use of iterative loops.   • Designed and built a blunt, passively controlled aero-braking capsule that descended nose-down, at a set rate while taking atmospheric data and protecting a payload. Peer Mentor Barrett, the Honors College Resident Life - Tempe, AZ August 2016 to May 2018 • Planned, organized, and ran several student events with attendance over 100 people, to involve students with both Barrett and Fulton  • Networked with first-year residents and connected them to academic resources and clubs as needed  • Represented the Barrett, Ira A Fulton, and ASU brands at different outreach events Researcher Material Properties of Galvanically Corroded Titanium and Aluminum April 2016 to May 2017 • Worked on a team of eight graduate students under direct supervision of Dr. Kiran Solanki.  • Designed a rig in Solidworks to test a 7075 Aluminum sample under a constant load with a Titanium galvanic couple before building it from steel and aluminum by use of a mill.  • Performed electrochemical testing on samples to track corrosion rate and pitting.  Assistant Recruiter Barrett, the Honors College - Tempe, AZ April 2016 to August 2016 • Contacted and worked with prospective students around the county through marketing campaigns.  • Worked with a high volume of students, preparing agendas for student experience days.   • Gave tours and information on the Tempe Barrett campus while utilizing public speaking and presentation skills to convey positive Barrett experiences. Temporary Associate Sun Devil Campus Stores - Tempe, AZ August 2015 to September 2015 • Worked customer service and cashiering  • Processed returns and exchanges  • Worked efficiently in a fast pace environment with little training and high customer volume  Education Master of Science in Aerospace Engineering Arizona State University June 2019 Bachelor of Science in Engineering in Aerospace Engineering Barrett, the Honors College at Arizona State University May 2018 Skills CFD, FABRICATION, SOLIDWORKS, TIG WELDING, WELDING, Microsoft Office Suite (10+ years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/mccourtanthony