Firefighter/First Responder Firefighter/First Responder Aircraft Logs & Records and Systems Administrator Buffalo, NY Work Experience Firefighter/First Responder Buffalo Fire - Buffalo, NY February 2016 to Present • Attending to emergency calls   • Adapting and reacting to different situations and individuals   • Promoting safety, education and risk prevention  • Represent and promote the Fire Department in a positive manner Account Specialist II American Coradius International, LLC - Amherst, NY 2014 to September 2016 • Process files and activate new accounts   • Assist internal departments and clients with accessing information and troubleshooting problems  • Ensure client reporting, exception processing and file processing requirements and timelines are met  • Perform detailed reviews of letter data and Process and release the letter files  • Assist with mail processing, check depositing, payment posting, transaction balancing and remit reporting  • Comply with company policies and procedures  Aircraft Logs & Records and Systems Administrator UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS - San Diego, CA June 2012 to July 2014 Maintained and accurately documented all aircraft and engine logbooks  ? Directly responsible for Safety of Flight systems  ? Trained, mentored and supervised a group of 4 Analysts  ? Prioritized all requirements within the work center including staffing and scheduling of personnel  ? Arrange for delivery, assembly, or distribution of supplies or parts to expedite flow of materials and meet production schedules  ? Calculate figures, such as required amounts of labor or materials, manufacturing costs, or wages, using pricing schedules, adding machines, calculators, or computers Administrative Assistant UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS - San Diego, CA February 2010 to July 2012 Maintained and update filing, inventory, mailing, and database systems, either manually or using a computer  ? Communicate with customers, employees, and other individuals to answer questions, disseminate or explain information, take orders, and address complaints  ? Compile, copy, sort, and file records of office activities, business transactions, and other activities  ? Operate office machines, such as photocopiers and scanners, facsimile machines, voice mail systems, and personal computers  ? Type, format, proof read, and edit correspondence and other documents  ? Answer telephones, direct calls, and take messages  ? Complete work schedules, manage calendars, and arrange appointments Education Certification Marine Corps Institute June 2015 Regents Diploma Burgard Vocational High School - Buffalo, NY 2009 Skills educating (4 years), Excel (4 years), inventory (4 years), MS Excel (4 years), MS PowerPoint (3 years) Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: Sgt Certifications/Licenses Driver's License July 2006 to Present Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY    ? Computer Skills including MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint, Outlook Express    ? Time Management  ? Supervisory Skills  ? Organizational Skills  ? Project Management  ? Inventory Management  ? Training/educating