Virtual Desktop Infrastructure Administrator Virtual Desktop Infrastructure <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Virtualization Consultant Fairfax, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Virtual Desktop Infrastructure Administrator Federal Bureau of Investigation October 2016 to April 2017 My role as the Virtual Desktop Infrastructure Administrator is to monitor and troubleshoot connectivity issues with one of FBINet's remote access VDIs. In addition, I also analyze performance metrics via Citrix Directory and implement modifications to reduce logon times and improve customer performance. I also assist in configuring and managing two separate Nutanix infrastructures at different sites. System Administrator U.S. Dept. of Homeland Security January 2014 to October 2016 My role as the ISSE Guard System Administrator is to ensure that my users can move emails, documents, and other files between the various DHS Networks to support the mission. This position requires a very proactive individual to communicate with the end user to troubleshoot any rejections and failures that arise. In addition, I frequently manually check all of the guards between each network to verify that all the services are up and running. In the event that a thread is down, I will troubleshoot the issue and restore services. I was the second person on staff for the CDS team as it was a project in it's infancy, There were no policies or procedures to follow therefore I had to develop the guides and the support structure for the DHS users. Citrix Consultant Citrix Consulting May 2013 to October 2013 My role as a Citrix Consultant was to travel to customer sites and provide and implement recommendations to improve end user experience of the existing infrastructure. A large portion of the work was to document and evaluate the current running state of the Citrix infrastructure and provide recommendations based on the finding. I also was involved in deploying a Proof of Concept for an international insurance and financial organization utilizing XenDesktop 7 with Nvidia GRID GPU's when this was still being pioneers. Help Desk / System Administrator U.S. Dept. of Homeland Security February 2012 to May 2013 My role as a Help Desk / System Administrator was to take calls for the 24/7/365 DHS classified enterprise and provide support as necessary. The task ranged anywhere from monitoring network services to troubleshooting taclanes. There were no limitations to the responsibilities that we had, we would frequently troubleshoot network connectivity, hardware failures, exchange issues, and/or other services that users relied on. The tools used were HP OpenView, Remedy, VMware vSphere client, Citrix AppCenter, LanDESK, Active Directory, Quest, and more. System Administrator Accenture July 2011 to February 2012 My role as System Administrator was to provision different tenant environments as well as assist users in connecting to these environments. I managed the users that had access as well as track other incidents via Remedy. I was also responsible for generating reports for my supervisor and updating SOP documentation to be more user friendly. Senior Help Desk / Systems Administrator Missile Defense Agency via Science Applications International Corporation March 2009 to March 2011 My Role as the Senior Help Desk / System Administrator was to manage all of IT assets for my group. Most of the machines were standalone so user accounts were manually managed. All the systems were scanned and hardened using the latest Gold Disk and/or WASSP tool. I also helped with troubleshooting VTC issues, Windows Server 2003, and locking down laptops. Senior Technical Specialist U.S. Army National Guard via NCI Information Systems, Inc March 2008 to March 2009 My role as a Senior Technical Specialist was to provide on-site and remote support to over 2,000 civilians and soldiers of all ranks. I worked with Pointsec encryption software, Bitlocker, as well as Microsoft's SCCM to image and deploy Windows XP & Vista. Most of the support was at user's desk throughout the building but I also had to occasionally travel. Desktop Support Technician Northrup Grumman July 2007 to March 2008 My role as a Desktop Support Technician was to provide on-site and remote support to Northrup Grumman employees in the DMV area. Tickets came through our help desk via Peregrine Service Center. I was responsible for installing, upgrading and supporting Windows 2000, XP, and Office 2003 for the various workstations and laptops. I also worked with PC Guardian Encryption, Cisco VPN Client and managing Blackberry users.    TECHNICAL SKILLSETS  Virtualization | Citrix, XenDesktop, XenApp, VMware, vSphere, vCenter, Nutanix, KVM  Storage | ZFS, RAID, FreeNAS, Synology, NFS  Networking | pfSense, Ubiquiti, EdgeMax, Eero, Cisco, LACP, Port Security, Cabling  Linux|Ubuntu Server, FreeBSD, Open Solaris, Open Indiana, OmniOS, Mac OS X  Windows | Microsoft 2000, XP, Vista, 7, 8, 10, Server 2003, 2008 R2, 2012 R2  Physical Security | Biometrics, CCTV, IP Cameras, NVR  In my spare time I have a fully populated rack at home where I can build out and test various technologies that I am interested in learning at any given time. I have 7 compute nodes populated with a minimum of Dual Xeon E5-2670's with 96GB of ram each. I also have several storage nodes, redundant power w/ generator backup. My rack is connected to the world via Verizon FIOS through an Ubiquiti enterprise router connected to a Cisco SG300 layer 3 switch. Education George C. Marshall High School 2006 MCSE Marshall Academy Skills AWS