Tier 1 Service Desk System Administrator Tier 1 Service Desk <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Tier 1 Service Desk System Administrator - Navy Marine Corps Intranet (NMCI) Norfolk, VA Seeking a position in the Computer Information's field with a creative, technology-driven organization in an environment that encourages innovative thinking, recognition, and career development. I am highly qualified, experienced, and motivated to perform tasks and objectives that would lead to success for the organization and myself. Work Experience Tier 1 Service Desk System Administrator Navy Marine Corps Intranet (NMCI) 2019 to Present • Executed the migration of Windows 10 1607 to 1803 and successfully resolved over 400 Windows 10 1803 upgrade and install issues and failures. Performed account activation, enabling, and unlocking using Active Directory and Active Directory Account Edit Operations (ADAEO). While using Microsoft Windows 10 I provided technical support to customers in need of assistance using all Microsoft applications such as Word, Outlook, PowerPoint, Excel, and Access. Successfully assisted in troubleshooting resolving 95% of customer application issues  • As a Tier 1 Service Desk Administrator I Resolved problems within Microsoft office (outlook, excel, etc.). I worked with Active Directory to build user network profiles, reset passwords, unlock accounts, etc. I also installed, repaired and setup computer peripherals and drivers and Performed set-up, break-down, and transport of company electronic equipment on an as-needed basis Computer Information Systems Technician (IT) United States Navy NCTAMS LANT 2014 to 2019 • Maintained, supervised, isolated, and restored 250 vital systems to over 3,500 major organizations worldwide, resulting in the completion of over 900 trouble ticket resolutions while providing the uninterrupted delivery of 60,000 mission critical messages daily supporting Navy and Joint tactical users  • Facilitated over 3000 hours of system, security, and leadership training resulting in a 45% decrease in system and security incidents and improving the flexibility of qualified personnel by 50%.  • Provided technical support to end-users, leveraging broad-based expertise to handle problem identification, diagnosis, resolution, and escalation via helpdesk system, telephone, and remote support tools. Performed troubleshooting, repair, and maintenance of computer systems, hardware, peripherals, and telephony. Analyzed system requirements to efficiently isolate and resolve a wide array of technical issues. Participated in large-scale upgrades and installations. Education High School Diploma Armuchee High School - Rome, GA May 2014 Skills Cisco (Less than 1 year), Cyber Security (Less than 1 year), Data analysis (Less than 1 year), maintenance (5 years), technical support (5 years), Help Desk, Desktop Support, Tech Support, Service Desk, Helpdesk Support, Active Directory, Comptia, Computer Repair, Information Technology, It Specialist, Secret Clearance, Network Support Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E5 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ CompTIA Security+