Corporate Systems Administrator Corporate <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Corporate Systems Administrator Richardson, TX Highly motivated Technical Support professional. Strong verbal, listening and written skills. Comfortable in interacting with all levels of the organization and public. Able to troubleshoot and problem solve quickly, accurately, and efficiently. Adept at multitasking to achieve individual and team goals. Diverse background includes financial, hospitality, entertainment, customer service and supervision.    Proficiency  Windows Server 2008-2016, WSUS, VMWare EXSi 5.0-6.5, Storage: EqualLogic, EMC Avamar, NetBackup, NetApp, Unitrends, and Fusion-io NexGen SAN. Deployment Tools: SCCM 2012, MDT, Acronis. Security Software: Symantec Endpoint Protection Manager, Malwarebytes Management Console, RSA Security Console, and InstallShield. Ticketing Systems (Footprint (EMC), Service-Now, Remedy, ServiceDesk Plus, SpiceWorks, ZenDesk) Work Experience Corporate Systems Administrator Omni Hotels & Resorts - Dallas, TX December 2017 to 2019 is an American privately held, international luxury hotel company based in Dallas, Texas which owns 60+ hotels across America with a 2B+ in revenue.  Corporate Systems Administrator, December 2017 - 2019 (current) - Dallas, TX  • Responsible for enterprise backup and recovery utilizing Veeam 9.5 included software upgrade and data architecture. Fully configured data repository servers and reporting applications.  • Configured, maintained, and updated backups on 1400+ physical/virtual hosts at 60 hotels and 2 co-locations. Racked and installed ESXi servers and added to vCenter Clsuters. Upgraded VMWare Vcenter and ESXi hosts from 5.5 to 6.5.  • Performed Netapp filer server management. Monitored and scheduled routine email backups with CommVault Backup and Recovery. Administered and manage CIFS file storage's from the aggregate to the share level  • Manage infrastructure assets by maintaining system component inventory. Oversee new and existing equipment, hardware and software upgrades.  • Managed Active Directory (2008+), including Domain Topology, DNS, policy management, user-level security and permissions, and Patch/ Systems maintenance on WSUS.  • Assisted on 0365 management, Menlo (web-filtering), and Proof-Point ( Email-Filtering ).  • Resolved daily tickets related to systems access and permissions. AD accounts clean up and UltiPro accounts remediation.  • Diagnosed and resolved LAN configurations and systems errors.  • Created Visio network diagrams for hotel properties and co-locations for Network Engineer  • Collaborated with other departments and IT-onsite to create backups SOP, documentations and hands-on best practices.  • Interacted and negotiated with vendors, outsourcers and contractors to secure products and services.  • Results Expected and duties performed IT Systems Administrator Enservio - Boston, MA December 2016 to 2017 MA  • Managed Active Directory (2008+), including Domain Topology, DNS, policy management, user-level security and permissions, and Patch/ Systems maintenance on WSUS.  • Maintained and implemented Cisco networking infrastructure devices, including routers, switches (Cisco x3750 Stack), firewall administration (Cisco x5510), VPN Support (Site to Site and Client), Meraki Wireless Controller, and Palo Altos IDS devices  • Troubleshot VPN, complicated application issues, and upload patches on ASA firewall to prevent vulnerabilities  • Assisted on-site and remote End-Users on Windows 7/8/10, MacOS, IOS, Android, and Office 365.  • Resolved desktop and helpdesk tickets (Zendesk AWS) on daily basis for remote/onsite 300+ End Users.  • Supported production VMware and Windows servers on Dell R720 Hypervisors  • Configured, upgraded, and modified firmware for Equallogic and NetApp Storage  • Identify and document network diagrams as well as troubleshooting documentations  • Assisted Systems Engineering team on installing and upgrading new projects: Cisco USC 5108 Chassis and Nexus 5548 switches.  • Participate in an on-call rotation and point of escalation to upper management and other departments.  • Monitored IT department budget and submitted Purchase Orders.  • Collaborated and networked with multiple vendors for enterprise discount IT Manager / Systems Administrator Radius Bank - Boston, MA July 2016 to December 2016 • Report directly to CIO  • Assisted on hiring 2 helpdesk technicians and 1 desktop engineer  • Supported 150+ on-site and remote End Users.  • Responsible for Laptop/Desktop/Tablets/Desk-phones/Mobile devices deployment for new hires.  • Managed Active Directory included Distribution Groups, Security Groups, and folders access.  • Vmware ESX management utilizing VCenter for Virtual Servers (Windows Servers 2008/2012) maintenance and Virtual Hard-Drives expansion.  • Configured and modified back-up jobs on Unitrends UI and Symantec Endpoint Protection Anti-virus management console.  • Prioritized tickets to troubleshoot on-going issues related to banking applications.  • Created and managed mailboxes on Exchange Management Console including Mailbox access and integrity.  • Responsible for Craden checks printers and Xerox network printers including giving badge access scan to emails and shared folders.  • Established and tested VPN connectivity.  • Assembled and installed Procurve Switches and Fortigate firewalls.  • Researches and recommends new technologies for implementation.  • Meets with business managers regularly and provides proactive ways to enhance productivity through technology.  • Directs enterprise wide technology upgrades.  • Helps facilitate all technology audits and exams while keeping the Bank compliant with all regulations Systems Administrator BSC Group - Boston, MA May 2016 to July 2016 • Provided excellent customer service to End Users in Boston office and 4 other remote offices.  • Supported applications that are installed and running on Windows server that require special administration and maintenance  • Performs system backups and recovery on Microsoft Azure.  • Managed SpiceWorks ticketing system and Shoretel IP phone system.  • Created User accounts, mailboxes, and security groups on Active Directory.  • Troubleshot, identified, and documented issues on Office365 Applications: Outlook, Word, Excel, Skype.  • Presented IT orientation and went over company applications to new users.  • Assisted IT Manager on small tasks and upcoming projects such as imaging PCs, upgrading Windows 7 to Windows 10 for all PCs, set up VPN access for remote users and served as an escalation point when manager is on site or on vacation. Service Desk Analyst II BMC HealthNet Plan - Boston, MA March 2016 to May 2016 • Coached peers and acts as an escalation point for Service Desk support.  • Provided advanced level technical support for all PC hardware, software, and peripherals, while assisting in maintaining the stability of LAN/WAN connections and maintaining a consistent high level of quality ensuring all details of requests are met within defined and documented Service Desk SLA's.  • Maintained highest level security when granting access to network resources and IT access areas.  • Consistently adheres to defined Service Desk processes and procedures.  • Records, tracks, and reports on all customer incidents and service requests through to completion within defined and documented Service Desk SLA's.  • Acquired and maintained an advanced level of knowledge for supported products and support policies.  • Proactively research and stay abreast of new technology including to but not limited to: Windows 7, Office 2010 and Desktop/Laptop security solutions.  • Responsible to script solutions as well as package and deploy software using automated tools.  • Provided emergency 24X7 technical support as needed with some travel required.  • Regular and reliable attendance is an essential function of the position. Senior Help Desk/Network Specialist WHDH - Boston, MA July 2015 to January 2016 July 2015 to January 2016 - Boston, MA  • Direct end user support and user training.  • Windows 2008R2/2012 Server and Domain administration.  • Basic Cisco switch administration.  • Citrix, OSI, and INews administration.  • Administration and maintenance of email, data backups, network, wireless devices and other corporate IT related items and productivity tools.  • Development of processes and tools to continuously improve the level of support provided.  • Plan, implement and support corporate IT security and policies.  • Maintain existing and develop new vendor relationships.  • Install PCs, software and network equipment including the installation of network cabling.  • Register and assemble Cisco phones.  • Weekly maintenance for Reporter laptops ( Windows and Macs ) and create new images for Mac laptops if necessary to minimize issues on the field for reporters.  • Research equipment and software, and recommend purchases.  • Make documentations for HOW TO shared folder from ticketing system.  • Work with various departments to implement IT solutions for their business requirements. IS Helpdesk Analyst (temp) Steward Health Care System - Westwood, MA May 2015 to August 2015 • Opened 650+ phone calls and resolved 400+ tickets per month.  • Worked with other professionals to quickly rectify user issues and provided professional, courteous, and efficient technical support to end-users.  • Relied upon to quickly adapt and learn newly released applications, procedures, and protocols while training. Helpdesk Specialist (Tier2) IT Desktop - Norwell, MA January 2015 to May 2015 • Built Refurbished/Pre-imaged PC/Laptop for users in local and remote offices.  • Handled helpdesk phone calls on daily basis for network, printers, and thin clients troubleshooting.  • Setting up VPN access for remote laptop users and RSA tokens for Mobile devices.  • Collaborated with departments' managers to give users access to shared folders.  • Assisted manager to implement Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI) environment.  • Configured user accounts and email accounts in Active Directory, mail-boxes in MS Exchange Management Console and assigned RSA tokens to mobile devices for Remote Users.  • Created MS Exchange and network infrastructure Visio diagrams on share-point and maintained changes on desktop configuration check-list.    Financial Services firm with $270+ billion assets under management IT Infrastructure- System/Storage Eaton Vance - Boston, MA January 2014 to June 2014 • Managed Eaton Vance's NetBackup infrastructure, including but not limited to backup job monitoring, documentation, reconciliation of records and basic tape operations.  • Designed infrastructure diagrams for messaging environment including Microsoft Exchange and CISCO IronPort's.  • Assisted Senior System Engineers in troubleshooting network file share issues, daily tasks included symptoms tracking with multiple data sets, problem categorization, this was crucial to the final successful resolution.  • Monitored Exchange mailboxes on daily basis. member of the five person helpdesk team Internal Services Co-Op - Boston, MA April 2013 to September 2013 - Boston, MA  • Provided end user support to 500 employees worldwide, working as a member of the five person helpdesk team.  • Demonstrated on re-imaging and deployed desktops to new employees' weekly basis.  • Provided technical consulting to helpdesk staff for Active Directory and Exchange access issues.    A fast data company develops on-demand storage appliances Summer Intern Terascala - Avon, MA June 2009 to September 2009 • Repaired and assembled robotics hardware in a testing environment with C++.  • Assisted Senior Engineers for additional tasks on programming Java and web design. Education B.S. in Computer Networking in Computer Networking Wentworth Institute of Technology 2014 Skills Active Directory, Linux, Vmware, Excel (2 years), NetApp, O365, Veeam (3 years), Active Directory, SQL, Cloud Computing, Budget Management, UCS (2 years)