Senior Security Engineer Senior Security Engineer Senior Security Engineer - Encore Capital Group San Diego, CA A Cisco, Palo Alto and Fortinet certified Security Engineer with an active government Clearance and 6 years' experience implementing, configuring and managing various vendor firewalls and security devices in medium to large, multi-site, multi-national networks. I am most fluent as a Security Engineer for various firewall products in the physical enterprise as well as the Cloud; however, my goal is to continue to expand my scope of experience in network engineering and enterprise security; addressing evolving security standards and supporting larger and more complex network environments.  Certification & Experience -  • Palo Alto ACE 7.0 and 8.0 - 6 Years - Certification Completed 2017  • Cisco ASA - 5 years  • SPLUNK 6.X Fundamentals Part 1 - 2 years - Certification Completed 2017  • Fortinet Network Security Expert 1 and 2 - Certification Completed 2017  • COMPTIA SECURITY+ ce (2014 - not maintained)  • Network and Systems Administration - 7 years  • Management Systems - Cisco FirePower, AlgoSec, FireMon Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Security Engineer Encore Capital Group February 2019 to Present • Cloud Migration - Contracted as Senior Information Security Engineer to lead a project to deploy Palo Alto firewalls into an Amazon Web Service (AWS) environment.  • Report to CISO with weekly progress updates. Maintain project time line, meeting deliverables schedule. Met with CISO and other team members on a weekly basis to insure deliverables were being met.  • Team Lead - Lead the implementation team using FireMon to configure devices. Also implement SSL/TLS encryption throughout the entire network.  • Insured Encore was security compliant by running weekly PCI reports and sending findings to the Security Analyst team. Information Security Engineer Cubic Corporation May 2018 to February 2019 • Cloud Migration - Team member responsible for migrating from physical firewall devices to GPCS. (GlobalProtect Cloud Services). This project was on going and included the re-architecture of the firewalls, including policy and functionality, to meet GPCS operating standards.  • Within 4 months, selected by CISO to promote to Senior Security Engineer. Directed to review multi-site security policies and implementation practices. Insured that all remote sites were operating within the Global Security Standards of the company. Was selected to travel to both Florida and the U.K to mitigate and fix issues involving firewall's and company security. Project was not completed due to budget.  • Support Team Member - Handle 20-25 new support tickets daily while maintaining contractual SLAs. Maintained government level SLA's while part of a 5 person team. Tickets were resolved based on severity and were resolved within stated SLA's.  • Complete initial AlgoSec certification. Manage firewall Configuration and Migration using AlgoSec Security Management. Operation Center/ Systems Firewall Engineer and Administrator Burwood Group May 2017 to May 2018 • Support the 24/7 Operations Center - Monitor traffic and threats, engineer 400 firewalls, handle 100+ issues a day and resolve 70 tickets a day on average. The issues that were resolved ranged from endpoint telecommunication devices not functioning properly to entire sites losing network connectivity.  • Update, implement and create rules and policies as well as update firewalls and management GUI's for various Palo Alto and Cisco ASA devices.  • Provide training to 5 other teammates on a weekly basis, addressing security standards and the correct implementation of Palo Alto and Cisco firewalls.  • Perform weekly audits on all Palo Alto and Cisco firewalls.  • Configure global rules and protection standards - specifically address "wannacry" and other ransomware attacks. Information Security Technician United States Navy 2013 to 2016 • NOC technician - Support and maintain over 160,000 user accounts using active directory.  • Aviation Command Systems Administration support. Single point of contact to provide account maintenance and data management on accredited Navy systems to over 280 command members.  • Maintain Cisco, Palo Alto and other vendors firewall rules as well as perform device maintenance. These actions were completed using the provided vendor tools that come with the hardware suite.  • Perform other military related duties, technical and non-technical, in support of Navy and Command mission objectives.  • Complete various DoD and Vendor technical training classes related to job requirements. Education B.S. in Information Technology Drexel University April 2021 Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E4