Information Systems Security Engineer Information <span class="hl">Systems</span> Security Engineer Information Systems Security Engineer - New Directions Technologies Incorporated Roy, UT Seeking a position with an organization in need of an individual with experience in maintaining a wide variety of  unique and sustainable cyber security solutions in a federal environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Systems Security Engineer New Directions Technologies Incorporated - Hill AFB, UT February 2017 to Present Hill Air Force Base/Utah Test & Training Range, Utah  Information Systems Security Engineer    • Performed the duties of ISSO (Information Systems Security Officer) for the enterprise's network  infrastructure, to include the completion of ITDCs (Information Technology Categorization and Determination Checklists), SSPs ( System Security Plans), CIEs (Cyber Impact Evaluations), and POA&Ms  (Plan of Actions and Milestones) in coordination with Project Management personnel.  • Assisted in the writing of RMF cyber security policies and procedures.  • Performed the initial configurations and continuous management of the enterprise's Host Based Security  System (HBSS) to include McAfee's E-Policy Orchestrator, Host-Based IPS, Host-Based Firewall, Virus  Scan, Data Loss Prevention, and ESS (Endpoint Security System).  • Performed the initial configurations and continuous management of the enterprise's log management  system, ELK (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana).  • Configured, collected, analyzed, and reported system audit logs for the enterprise's information systems.  • Performed system vulnerability scans utilizing Security Center, Nessus/ACAS (Assured Compliance  Assessment Solution).  • Assessed and reported the enterprise's compliance with RMF Security Controls to maintain Authorities to Operate (ATOs). Security Engineer/ Systems Administrator Jacobs Engineering - China Lake, CA August 2015 to January 2017 Managed HBSS suite for the enterprise in accordance with DOD (Department of Defense) compliance  standards.  • Configured McAfee's E-Policy Orchestrator, Host IPS, Virus Scan, Data Loss Prevention, and other  custom modules to remediate false positives and support customer requirements.  • Assisted in the maintenance and configuration of McAfee SIEM, Cisco Defense-Center, and Tipping Point  IPS.  • Audited and configured IP-based network devices, servers, and workstations to improve their security  postures.  • Monitored network security devices for intrusion attempts, potential compromises, and user-agreement  violations, utilizing various threat-intelligence sources.  • Provided initial incident-response recommendations to organization's Network Security Officer following  malware detections.  • Assisted in creating incident-response procedures and analysis environments.  • Conducted post-incident forensic investigations and malware analysis of Windows and various Linux  Operating systems.  • As a member of the Security Assessment Detection and Response (SADR) Team, prepared for DIACAP  accreditations and assisted in RMF transition requirements.  • Completed SCAP/SCC scans, STIG checklists, and preliminary CSI/CCRI audits on a regular basis.  • Assisted in the supervision of the security posture of the infrastructure and end devices of 2 Classified  Networks and 1 Unclassified Network and 500+ end-users.  • Evaluated new cyber security solutions deployed throughout the enterprise. Education Marine Corps Communications School January 2012 to May 2012 Diploma Cheyenne East High School May 2011 Skills IDS, IPS, CYBER SECURITY, ENCRYPTION Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: Sergeant (E5) Certifications/Licenses Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) July 2019 to July 2022