Electronic Security Systems Administrator Electronic Security <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Electronic Security Systems Administrator/Integrator - CACI International, Inc Abu Dhabi Work Experience Electronic Security Systems Administrator CACI International, Inc October 2014 to Present Maintenance, programming, integration, and reconfiguration of a $4 million dollar electronic based security system  and a $6.5 million dollar RF (Radio Frequency) based system consisting of 800 total alarm points. The combined sys- tems encompass Intrusion Detection (IDS), Access Control (ACS), Command Control and Display Equipment  (CCDE), Closed Circuit Television (CCTV), Infrared Sensors, Lines of Detection (Fiber Optic Cable), RF Microwave  Links, Annunciator/Vindicator (VCC) Server, and Public address systems.  • Build and maintain efficient network infrastructure to assure the integrity of The Vindicator network and data, over- all minimizing vulnerabilities and deficiencies.  • Secure network infrastructure by programming/troubleshooting Cisco switches, CommNets, Uninterrupted Power  Sources (UPS) and various Network Security Appliances that support the Security System.  • Analyze and troubleshoot all system failures to component level if necessary, rapidly initiating repairs to ensure mini- mal down time, and reacting to any catastrophic systems failures within a 1 hour response time.  • Accountability, inventory, distribution, and coordination of $10 million dollars worth of equipment suited for recon- figuration, repairs, and maintenance.  • Work closely with Senior Leadership of the Security Forces squadron in regards to all Security System issues by giv- ing detailed corrective action reports based on knowledge of system, infrastructure, and parameters.  • Coordinate with Communications and Civil Engineering Squadrons to mitigate any Electrical, Networking, and Phys- ical Security issues that may jeopardize the performance of Security Systems.  • Analyze Preventative Maintenance Inspections (PMI) by collecting, assessing, and compiling data from Electronic and Tactical Security Systems for indications of faulty equipment or problematic areas of the base defense system.  • Installed and maintained Tactical Automated Security Systems (TASS) at various installations throughout AFCENT  and USAFE/AFAFRICA that went on to be provided contract awards. Fitness Attendant DynCorp International August 2014 to October 2014 Provided safe, effective exercise instruction and proper use of equipment. Fitness Instructor, IAP Worldwide Services December 2013 to April 2014 • Led PT for 60+ members of the USAF EFSS Squadron that went on to score 90 or above on overall PT Tests.  • Designed Fitness and Nutrition programs for all US Armed Force branches in their attempt to eat well, feel great, manage their weight, sustain their energy needs, and improve their overall quality of life. Personal Trainer Eco Fitness & Blue Turtle Yoga October 2012 to June 2013 Worked 1-on-1 with clients to improve nutrition, strength, flexibility, mobility, stability, and overall wellness. Professional Football Player European Football Leagues January 2009 to September 2012 Played Running Back and Wide Receiver in France, Austria, and Germany's Division I American Football Leagues.    Certifications & Achievements  Honeywell Vindicator Technology- Intrusion Detection (IDS), Access Control (ACS), Vindicator Command Control  (VCC), and Vindicator Badge Manager (VBM).    Scholarship Student Athlete at The Citadel- Current Single Season Rushing Touchdown Record Holder. Education Bachelor's in Health, Exercise, and Sport Science The Citadel, The Military College of South Carolina - Charleston, SC August 2003 to May 2008 Certifications/Licenses Honeywell Vindicator November 2016 to November 2020 Intrusion Detection (IDS), Access Control (ACS), and Vindicator Command and Control (VCC).