Business Applications Analyst II Business Applications Analyst II Scottsdale, AZ My main strength is that I understand how computer systems work and I can relate prior knowledge on what I am currently learning. I pick up processes quickly and I am extremely detail orientated. I enjoy building new reports from scratch and deconstructing old reports to test their effectiveness. I can communicate plainly to others that may not be as versed in computer science as I am while translating business needs to the IT department in a vernacular that they understand. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Business Applications Analyst II Taylor Morrison - Scottsdale, AZ July 2018 to Present In the year I have been with Taylor Morrison I have been introduced to new software programs and I have become proficient in those programs. I have become a key employee with Visual Studio, Power BI, One Stream Accounting, SSRS and Sharepoint. My role is primarily focused on writing stored procedures that produce data for the Power BI we are introducing to the company. I work in all facets or the company; Accounting, Purchasing, Customer Service, Sales and Marketing, etc…My knowledge of data modeling has also been strengthened in this position.   • Worked with end users and built functionals for projects.  • Troubleshot existing reports on the fly to meet tight deadlines.  • Collaborated with colleges and designed a process to help the new hire process.  • Worked with Inspire BI, DAX, SSRS, and a variety of Microsoft based software programs. Business Systems Analyst STORE Capital - Scottsdale, AZ April 2016 to May 2018 -Fulfilling a need to return to Arizona, I found a position at STORE Capital as a Business Systems Analyst, this position was extremely challenging in a field of business I have never worked in before. STORE is a leader in REIT's and it was experiencing explosive growth, it had gone public a couple years prior to my arrival and my predecessor wasn't meeting their expectations. I worked with their data consultant who taught me the mapping on their extremely custom and complicated relational database. I was still developing crystal reports for departments but more on a SQL level, I was writing stored procedures and views directly in their database rather than doing the work in crystal itself. This was challenging at first, but I was a self-sufficient member of the team in under 2 months.  •Interdepartmental relations and building functionals that satisfy the needs of those departments and the executive committee members.  •Organizing a business process with goals and objectives based on the information given during the discovery phase.  •Maneuvering through several relational databases to match business rules while staying compliant with SOX auditing.  •Contributing to the streamlining of business processes saving key personnel valuable time in decision making and report preparation.  •Managing a Que of projects while also servicing database changes and ad hock data requests.  •Meeting deadlines and keeping key personnel up to date on progress. Report Developer National Entertainment Network - Westminster, CO May 2014 to April 2016 When I was first hired, I was intended to support the SQL report developer and build stored procedures when we get report requests. In three days, I had a good knowledge of the database structure and I was servicing my own report requests. The company was not utilizing Crystal XI to its full potential, so I set up a report request structure that would quickly and accurately produce reports that were displayed in a presentation style format rather than the raw data results the company was used to getting with stored procedures built in SQL. I met with department heads and developed business processes for each of them that automated their routine report requests and developed 14 projects containing dozens of reports that produced "The best reports they have seen in decades", direct quote from DOO. My mission statement for this position was centered on automation, accuracy and saving time.  •Information gathering for the purpose of implementing effective reporting.  •Organizing a business process with goals and objectives based on the Information given.  •Meeting deadlines and keeping key personnel up to date on progress.  •Thinking "outside the box" to solve business opportunities and produce reports that automated processes.  • Freeing up the time spent by department heads on report preparation, so they could focus on decision making. Group Coordinator Starwood Resorts - Scottsdale, AZ March 2011 to May 2013 Scottsdale, AZ Mar 11'-May 13' - May 14' (This entry seems odd, but I started in Phoenix and was transferred to Denver so hopefully that clears things up)  Group Coordinator - My initial position was a front desk agent but the resort used the same programs that I had learned in the previous position so I did my required job description while also developing reports for operational departments so I was quickly promoted to a Group Reservations Coordinator.  I took the entry level job at the Phoenician solely to get my foot in the door and work my way to revenue management.  Front Desk Duties: • Conflict Resolution with high end guests.  • Communication with other departments in a fast-paced environment.  • Working with multiple software programs to ensure a seamless guest experience.  • Managing room inventory and setting up daily reservations to maximize revenue.  • I developed several pre-arrival reports from scratch that set the department up for success.  Group Reservations Coordinator: • Coordinating with Sales Staff on client needs and building master accounts designed to support those needs.  • Communicating with the meeting planners and continuing to provide support until their group's arrival.  • Meeting with key staff members and following through the event process.  • At the end of the event, we provide the necessary accounting documents to close the group.  • The reports I developed for this position were more for billing and room blocks, again, I built these from scratch.  Revenue Analyst - I was recognized for building custom Crystal Reports and they found a need for me in Denver as a Revenue Analyst. In the short time I was in this position I built 15+ reports for the revenue team and other departments. I was given several awards and recognition for my contributions. My reports were user friendly, easy to read, and extremely accurate. I worked in both archived and forecasting data. I was also named "Champion" of a new Sales software program. Several of my reports have been distributed Company Wide.  • Built Routine Reports that monitor rate changes, occupancy forecasting, and group pickup.  • Streamlining and improving existing reports that were distributed company wide.  • Developing new custom reports that improve hotel efficiency and accuracy. Salesforce.com Administrator CP1 Marketing LLC - Scottsdale, AZ February 2010 to March 2011 Scottsdale, AZ Feb 10'-Mar 11'  Salesforce.com (SFDC) Consulting and eMarketing specialists located in Scottsdale, AZ.  Salesforce.com Administrator  Certified Salesforce.com Administrator (ADM201). Able to design technology tools to mine, migrate and report data to drive project plans that achieve business objectives.  This was the start of my computer science education, before this I had worked 10 years in hotel operations. At the beginning of this position, I would work a shift at the Scottsdale Princess and then I would work another shift at CP1. After 2 months I had proved my worth and offered a full time position as a report developer. While I was developing reports, I also received my SFDC certification. I have let the certification expire but I have retained the knowledge and wouldn't mine being a salesforce admin again if the opportunity presented itself.  • Designed project workbooks including requirements, data models, and project plans • Designed and implemented Custom Fields and Custom Objects • Designed multiple reports as well as custom Crystal Reports to meet business objectives • Well versed in the Salesforce API using tools such as APEX Explorer and Data Loader tools • Managed Google AdWords and SEO campaigns Education Bachelor's in Hotel and Resort Management American Hotel and Lodging Educational Institute (online) - Ellensburg, WA November 2006 to November 2011 Skills Word Processing (10+ years), Excel (10+ years), Outlook (10+ years), Crystal Reports (10+ years), Salesforce (3 years), SQL (7 years), Various Proprietary CRMs (10+ years), SSRS (2 years), Tableau (2 years), Powerpoint (6 years), Inspire BI (2 years), Sharepoint (2 years), One Stream (4 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Software Knowledge:  ? Word (Advanced)  ? Excel (Advanced)  ? Outlook (Advanced)  ? Crystal 9-13 (Expert)  ? Delphi (Advanced)  ? Salesforce.com ( Administrator Certification)  ? Access (Normal)  ? DAX (Normal)  ? Power Point (Advanced)  ? SQL Server Management (Advanced)  ? Various CRM's  ? Tableau (Novice)  ? SSRS (Normal)  ? Power BI (Normal)  ? One Stream (Normal)  ? SharePoint (Novice)  My main strength is that I understand how computer systems work and I can relate prior knowledge on what I am currently learning. I pick up processes quickly and I am extremely detail orientated. I enjoy building new reports from scratch and deconstructing old reports to test their effectiveness. I can communicate plainly to others that may not be as versed in computer science as I am while translating business needs to the IT department in a vernacular that they understand.