C2 Subject Matter Expert C2 Subject Matter Expert C2 Subject Matter Expert - Obsidian Solutions Group Fallbrook, CA Detail-oriented and driven Command and Control (C2) and Intelligence Systems Professional  with 8+ years of experience coordinating and troubleshooting with multiple Department of  Defense organizations, focused on server administration, physical security compliance, and  network security in multiple locations around the world. Work Experience C2 Subject Matter Expert Obsidian Solutions Group - Twentynine Palms, CA October 2017 to Present GCCS Engineer    • Responsible for providing C2 subject matter expertise to Marine Corps Tactics and Operations Group (MCTOG) Communications Officer to help decision-making process in  regards to command and control systems.  • Administers an enterprise C2 architecture consisting of VMWare, NetApp, Global  Command and Control System(GCCS)-J/GCCS-M, C2PC, CPOF, JBC-P, JCR, SPEED and JCATS, as well as maintaining the aforementioned tactical systems and associated  workstations by installing, configuring, and troubleshooting each in accordance with supporting technical documentation.  • Through understanding of the interoperability of non-federated C2 systems, as well  as research and development for emerging C2 technologies.    on next page)  574 E. Dougherty St (760) 622-3715  Fallbrook, CA 92028 Mgearhart0892@gmail.com  • Provides C2 training and support to MCTOG students and Exercise Control (EXCON)  personnel during exercise to enhance Marine Corps command and control  proficiencies. Intelligence Systems Subject Matter Expert CSRA Inc - Camp Pendleton, CA June 2015 to October 2017 C4I Analyst    • Responsible for providing deployed and remote support for mission essential Command, Control, Communications, Computers, & Intelligence (C4I) systems for the Operating Forces Tactical Systems  Support Center (OFTSSC) under the Marine Corps Tactical Systems Support Activity (MCTSSA).  • Deployed to training, exercise, and operational environments both CONUS and OCONUS in support of large  and small-scale military operations and exercises to provide over-the-shoulder support and training to military units for intelligence and command and control (C2) systems including the Combat Operations  Center (COC), Intelligence Analysis System (IAS) Family of Systems (FoS), Identity Dominance System - Marine Corps (IDS-MC), and Marine Civil Information Management System (MARCIMS).  • Applied years of Marine Corps and commercial training, knowledge, and experience to integrate complex  systems under demanding and diverse expeditionary operating conditions.  • Responsible for providing supported units with feedback and recommendations through After Action  Reports (AAR) on how to improve network performance and enhance training in order to keep the Marines'  skills honed.  • Provided recommendations to Marine Expeditionary Force (MEF), Division, Special Purpose Marine Air- Ground Task Force (SPMAGTF), and Marine Expeditionary Brigade (MEB) level units that were implemented  into the unit's standard operating procedures in order to optimize how the unit conducts their  exercises and operations.  • Responsible for conducting technical interviews, performing detailed assessments of individual  technical skills for C4I Analyst candidates. Systems Chief United States Marine Corps - Camp Pendleton, CA June 2014 to June 2015 Sergeant    • Performed data communications planning to support all tactical operations and deployments.  • Prepared presentations and documentation representing the communications section for the Command  Automated Inspection Readiness Survey (AIRS) and Commanding General's Readiness Inspection (CGRI) and was the only individual to score 100% on all communications inspection areas.  • Responsible for integrating security systems into tactical data networks and provided video feeds to base security personnel via multicast routing.  • Managed all the IAS FoS throughout the 1st Marine Division; ensuring the systems were up to date with the current patches, provided training to Marines, and ensuring gear accountability for all systems.  • Worked closely with JTCW, TCW, C2PC, TCS Server Administrators to provide a communication path between two like GCCS-based servers for Division level field exercises. Trojan Spirit Lite Operator United States Marine Corps - Camp Pendleton, CA January 2013 to June 2014 MCB Camp Pendleton, CA  2nd Special Security Communications Team  1st Marine Division G-2  Trojan Spirit Lite Operator  EKMS Custodian  Corporal    • Responsible for the maintenance and accountability of all communications security (COMSEC) components  for the 1st Marine Division G-2.  • Responsible for the setup, operation, and maintenance of the 1st Marine Division G-2's Trojan Spirit  Lite satellite terminal in order to provide Secret Compartmentalized Information (SCI) communications.    References Available Upon Request  574 E. Dougherty St (760) 622-3715  Fallbrook, CA 92028 Mgearhart0892@gmail.com Systems Administrator United States Marine Corps - Camp Lejeune, NC June 2010 to December 2012 EKMS Custodian  Lance Corporal    • Responsible for the maintenance and accountability of all communications security (COMSEC) components  for the 2nd Marine Division G-2.  • Managed all the IAS FoS throughout the 2nd Marine Division; ensuring the systems were up to date with the current patches, provided training to Marines, and ensuring gear accountability for all systems.  • Provided assistance with helpdesk operations for the 2nd Marine Division G-6, ensuring division  personnel and assets were provided timely and efficient service. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Systems Security in Information Systems Security American Military University Present Marine Corps Communications Training Center - Camp Pendleton, CA 2013 Northwest Rankin High School - Flowood, MS 2010