ESOC Service Desk Specialist ESOC Service Desk Specialist Linux System Administrator - ICF International Baltimore, MD Seeking a challenging position where I can leverage my current knowledge as a System Administrator and grow professionally within the IT field.  SECURITY CLEARANCE  • Active - Top Secret/SCI Clearance (June 2014)  • Active - CI Scope Polygraph (November 2014) Work Experience ESOC Service Desk Specialist General Dynamics - Annapolis Junction, MD February 2018 to Present • Works on a 24/7 Help Desk as a service desk specialist responsible for quickly and professionally answering phone calls within SLA timelines.  • Using remote desktop responsible for troubleshooting PKI, Microsoft Outlook, Web browser, and terminating hung sessions.  • Responsible for unlocking user accounts, verifying user credentials, enabling/disabling accounts, and working one-on-one with customers to resolve their issues in a timely manner.  • Responsive, responsible, and professional while dealing with numerous customers ensuring customer satisfaction.  • Versatile in the field can troubleshoot computer problems, answering phone calls, and resolving web-tickets in a timely manner.  • Tier II technician troubleshooting and problem solving, escalating when necessary. System Administrator December 2014 to Present • Built and configured servers, blade servers, Gigamon visibility platforms, network taps, and other appliances for deployment in tactical and mission critical environments in support of vital mission functions. Configured the servers with correct IP's, IPMI's, and BIOS settings to run properly once deployed.  • Deployed within the continental United States and overseas to multiple countries in support of missions for the US Combatant Commands (USCOCOMs). Responsible for information technology equipment installation, configurations, and providing up-to-date site documentation. Additionally, responsible for troubleshooting configuration problems, mission capability and security certifications, and ensuring network sustainability.  • Coordinated with customer sites while on deployment, networking with customers to meet expectations and obtain proper access to sites and equipment.  • Responsible for updating tasking on USCOCOM sensors which aided in fitering so that only pertinent data was collected, processed, and reviewed by analysts for operational needs. Allowing for data selection and prioritization capabilities at collection points, and transport, routing, and processing of data.  • Updated task IP addresses on numerous occasions to remain current on customer needs and ensuring mission success.  • Responsible for upgrading firmware, IPMI (management port), and diagnosing kernel issues to provide continuous support of classified sensors that lead to performing network vulnerability assessments.  • Established and maintained professional relationships and networking with customers within the Agency as well as representatives of other agencies and uniformed services.  • Performed preventative and corrective maintenance on networks across multiple mission enclaves.  • Remotely troubleshoot server issues, installed certificates, upgrade their BIOS, and remediate any hardware or networking issues.  • Maintained physical security; performed installations, deployments, tests, troubleshooting, and repairing or replacing hardware.  • Analyzed problems to determine complete technical solutions.  • Performed preventative and corrective maintenance for networks across three enclaves.  • Created system operating procedures for proper security, distribution, handling, accounting, reporting, and control of Communications Security (COMSEC) materials, systems, and equipment.  • Configured external peripherals such as workstations to ensure network connectivity.  • Monitored sensors infrastructure ticketing, and maintenance on over 100 sensors directly supporting customers across the globe.  • Updated and created installation and connection documents to reflect up-to-date rack configurations and diagrams.  • Responsible for hardware deployments, hardware maintenance, and sustainment of Data Center IT services.  • Managed projects compiling data to create system operating procedures, and installation guides.  • Responsible for building and configuring Gigamon servers, and blade servers for deployment.  • Created and used innovative methods to troubleshoot various errors on servers and blade servers, leading to mission sustainability and success.  • Performed deployments of server installations, upgrades, troubleshooting, and equipment extractions.  • Maintained equipment and software spreadsheets ensuring accountability. Information Systems Technician United States Navy - Fort Meade, MD 2014 to February 2018 IT2/E-5 Tier 1 Team Lead United States Navy November 2015 to December 2016 • Supervised three Navy personnel as a Tier 1 System Administrator.  • Trained, supervised, and supported over 16 networks creating standard operating procedures for new hires.  • In charge of monitoring the ticketing queue, and dispersing tickets to proper recipients.  • Created qualified customers' accounts granting administrative privileges if applicable.  • Reset accounts, and troubleshot any network connectivity related issues. Education Bachelors of Science in Physical Education K SUNY Cortland 2012 to May 2013 Associates of Science in Physical Education Studies SUNY Delhi May 2011 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY (Less than 1 year), DHCP (Less than 1 year), DNS (Less than 1 year), LINUX (Less than 1 year), MICROSOFT OFFICE (Less than 1 year), Desktop Support, Service Desk, Help Desk, Helpdesk Support Additional Information Astute, results-oriented, self-motivated professional, with a passion for excellence. Proven ability to adapt to new surroundings and roles while accurately observing and engaging with and completing any emerging requirements. Able to employ novel or creative approaches while meeting or exceeding all designated objectives.  • Four years of experience as a System Administrator  • Experienced in Windows, and Linux operating systems.  • Great organizational and communication skills  • Motivated trainer, mentor, and team player.  • Security + Certified, December 2017    TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  Hardware Platforms:  Gigamon, Desktop Computers, SuperMicro Servers, Servers and blade servers, Laptops, Routers, Switches, Printers    Software Platforms:  DNS, Windows, DHCP, Linux, CENTOS6/REDHAT, Putty, Active Directory, Remote Desktop, VPN, ELK, Microsoft Office Proficient, KVM,