Professional PC Technician contracted Professional PC Technician contracted Professional PC Technician contracted - City of Cleveland Wellington, FL Technical professional with a strong work ethic who has experience with PC support and troubleshooting, systems administration, web server administration, and large scale PC deployment.    Proficient in many operating systems including Microsoft Windows 95/98/2000/XP/Vista/7/10, MS-DOS, Linux and OS X. Experienced in network protocols including HTTP, TCP/IP, DNS, FTP/TFTP, SMTP and Telnet/SSH. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Professional PC Technician contracted City of Cleveland - Independence, OH November 2017 to Present Contracted by The City of Cleveland during Public Safety PC Refresh to work with Police, Fire, and EMS services for large scale deployment of PC hardware upgrades.    ? Troubleshooting PC issues with Police, Fire, EMS services, assisting with hardware and software troubleshooting or replacement, networking issues, email setup, and printer troubleshooting.  ? Working knowledge of the network setup and protocols including remote access  troubleshooting, and user account permissions.  ? Responsible for applying Windows 7 and Windows 10 custom images to 200+ PCs via SCCM PXE boot server.  ? Configured custom Public Safety apps on PCs.  ? Deployed PCs to various Public Safety Divisions throughout the City. Working knowledge of the City building locations, and use of company vehicles.  ? Maintained excel lists for inventory Management and Asset disposal during project.  ? Configured and assembled PCs for Identiphoto Visitor Management Project consisting of license readers, web cam, barcode scanner, and thermal printers.  ? Responsible for solving help desk tickets in Dell/Quest KACE ticketing system used by the city of Cleveland.  ? Imaged, configured, and deployed Surface Pro tablets to Police command staff, and configured additional Surface Pro tablets for deployment of additional staff and services. Tier 3 PC Technical Support/ Systems Administrator LiquidWeb - Lansing, MI April 2014 to August 2017 Multiple building Datacenter system Administrator and webserver/PC systems repair    ? PC, Network, and Web Server troubleshooting for LiquidWebs multiple buildings/locations and customers.  ? LAMP stack/RedHat troubleshooting, configuration, and monitoring in real time (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP, email, DNS).  ? Systems administrator for level 3 escalation of trouble tickets.  ? Monitoring web server system alerts through nagios real-time network monitoring system.  ? Working knowledge with logging in remotely to web servers to correct service alerts. Alternately, if unable to resolve through remote login - then physically connecting a terminal to the web server to log in directly and correct the service alert.  ? Systems administration of user accounts on Linux servers.  ? Working knowledge with parsing LAMP stack, cPanel, and Wordpress event logging and troubleshooting issues.  ? Firewall rule auditing or IP blocking & unblocking.  ? Provided assistance to security team to run security patches to maintain most recent standards of security, antivirus, and hacking prevention.  ? Hardware troubleshooting, configuration, and replacement, direct peer-to-peer data transfer through network, and drive cloning.  ? Monitored trouble ticket handling and resolution to ensure customer satisfaction.  ? Resolved customer technical issues using phone, email, and online chat.  ? Served as customer liaison in unmanaged hosted computers. Followed proper security protocols online, phone, and in person for proper access to hosted web servers for the purpose of preserving and securing customer data.  ? Mediator between technical support staff, network engineers, and customers.  ? Worked with registrars, domain controllers, and SSL providers Skills Linux, Malware cleanup/removal (5 years), Data migration (5 years), Customer service (5 years), File management (5 years), Mac, Excellent written and verbal communication skills (5 years), Desktop Support (5 years), Pc Support (5 years), Help Desk Support (5 years), Deployment Additional Information ? Strong knowledge of Operating Systems (Windows, Linux and Mac), File Management, and Data Communications, including but not limited to troubleshooting, reading and parsing configuration and log files, Working knowledge with patching and security protocols, and with cleanup of malware and spam issues.  ? Working knowledge with backup and data migration, Server or workstation build, image, reimage, and configuration.  ? Working knowledge with using windows PXE and console.  ? Excellent written and verbal communication skills, customer service skills with phone, chat, and email help ticketing systems. Patience and understanding in stressful situations. Desire to help customers, and ability to explain technical issues in layman's terms.