IT Systems Administrator IT <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Cloud & Infrastructure Solutions Expert ? Specialty in transforming companies to new & updated technologies ? Bilingual Charlotte, NC Microsoft Certified Azure Administrator & Technology Specialist with over 8 years of professional experience. Special interest in cloud projects that require analyzing and defining new business solutions that can meet a company’s demanding needs and their constant changes. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Systems Administrator Plavica - Cataño, PR April 2018 to Present o Created pipelines with Azure Data Factory to manage data between different Azure Storage Accounts.  o Managed hybrid identities in Azure.  o Managed Web Apps, Azure Storage and SAS management, deploy VMs, VPN Site-to-Site and Point-to-Site Configurations in Microsoft Azure.  o Managed IT team and improved customer service experience.  o Upgraded servers to maximize efficiency and capabilities.  o Administered VMware VSphere.  o Fortigate administration.  o Office 365 implementation and tenant administration.  o Migration of users from G-Suite email environment.   o Strategized and implemented disaster recovery procedures.  o Budget planning and expense management.  o Implemented and Administered WSUS.  o Inventoried all Microsoft licenses and implemented correct procedures to ensure company is compliant with Microsoft standards.  o Created plan and strategized migration from on-premises infrastructure to Microsoft Azure.   o Created apps to automate and streamline processes.   o Built Sharepoint platform and configured to meet company needs and to its different departments.  o Created dashboards visualization with Power BI to help executives to determine best course of action.  IT Help Desk Technician SOL PARTNERS - San Juan, PR October 2013 to March 2018 o System Center Administrator – Manage over 500 clients, Deploy OS images, Software updates and Repackage Software to automated time saving processes.  o Kramer Controls (OnControls) – Implemented audio visual cloud-based solution to automate and control video wall on conference rooms and audio on all office spaces.  o CEO’s first point of contact - Manage and customize network settings for his companies and private homes. Entrusted with personal passwords and confidential information.  o IT / Audiovisual project management - Oversee all new implementations from design, budget planning, construction and development. Create project plans and strategies for the CEO to approve.   o Manage vendor relationships and lead in contracts negotiations correlated to IT services for Sol and its partner companies.   o PowerShell – Creation of reusable scripts to assist automatization of time consuming processes.   o Office 365 – Oversaw migration from on-premises to Office365.  o Customer Service & Equipment Management – Responsible for keeping computers, servers, and services up and running in our call center facilities and four other companies and its employees.  o Source and purchase all equipment required along with expense management. Claims Resolution Specialist First American Home Buyers Protection - Santiago, Dominican Republic March 2012 to April 2013 o Responsible to make important decisions and determine the best course of action to the home owners and the Warranty Company including repair, replacement or deny claims.   o Explain warranty coverage and honor signed contract offering comprehensive coverage in all standard systems and appliances.   o Provide solutions and customer service by determine priority on each claim (normal, same day/next day or emergency).   o Make dispatches by assigning technicians accordingly based on priority on claim   o Take reports and authorize job for technicians.   o Take payments over the phone and process Outside Reimbursements. IT Specialist Compuservicio Alfa Y Omega - Bogota, CO August 2011 to March 2013 o Remote technical support to users in three different countries (Colombia, Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico)  o Equipment maintenance (Install and Configure peripherals, Rebuild PC, Cleaning and troubleshooting).   o Network Management– Support to different clients including installation of switches, and router configurations.  o Client Services – Migration of user profiles, Microsoft Office setup over 5 different enterprises while providing customer service experience.  o Responsible for diverse client support with unique environment setups including troubleshooting, migrations, installations and connect different software’s to correct server.  Education Associate Degree in System & Network Administration Instituto de Banca y Comercio August 2010 to July 2011 Skills Cloud Computing (3 years), Customer service (8 years), Sharepoint Online (2 years), Web design (5 years), Virtualization (5 years), Power bi (1 year), Migrations (2 years), Office 365 Tenant Administration (2 years), Powershell (5 years), Project Management (6 years), Azure Administration (3 years), Bilingual (10+ years), Teamwork (7 years), Work Ethic (7 years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/omar-ortiz Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Azure Administrator April 2019 to April 2021 MCSE Cloud Platform And Infrastructure February 2017 to Present MCTS System Center Configuration Manager February 2015 to Present MCSA Wibdows Server 2012 March 2016 to Present Additional Information KEY SKILLS    Azure Administration   Cloud Computing Powershell  Office 365 Tenant Administration  Project Management & Delivery Virtualization Power BI Technician   Sharepoint Online Azure Data Factory     OTHER SKILLS  Good Communication  Verbal & Written Skills  Interpersonal Skills  Work Ethic