System Administrator <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator - Atlas Sand, Kermit Pflugerville, TX Looking for a position as a Sr. Systems Administrator/ Systems Engineer that will continue to allow me to specialize and grow within the field. Work Experience System Administrator Atlas Sand, Kermit - Monahans, TX May 2018 to Present Directly responsible for several projects during Atlas Sand's start-up phase through becoming operational. Handled all local IT requirements to bring multiple sand plants into production. This included end user support for all locations, building out the offices' IT infrastructure, building out living quarters, and integration of the plants with our headquarters in Austin.    Below is a list of the projects that I was directly responsible for:    • Wyatts Lodge: Designed, configured and implemented a campus wide network infrastructure that supports 200+ residents. Oversaw the project from the construction phase to completion. This included negotiating with the high-speed internet company to provide services for 30+ buildings and setting up direct TV for all residents. Also managed contract personnel for the install phase.    • Opened Kermit/Monahans plants: Architected and implemented sand plant LAN and WAN network infrastructure. Designed and built the domain controllers for the sites. Implemented and managed Windows server environment as well as building out employee workstations. Administered and managed O365 environment for office.    • Designed and configured production and enterprise backup solutions: Created cross site, local and physical backup solutions for Hyper V and ESXI 6.5 using VEEAM. Administered enterprise level back-up and recovery process.    • Virtualization and optimization of the sand load out process: Redesigned the load out process to run on virtual machines and integrated a cloud-based ticketing system that communicates with RFID readers and a factory talk based HMI. IT Support Specialist/ Systems Admin, Tier 2 Austin, TX December 2015 to January 2018 • Engage with customers on the phone, in person, and through the customer portal to resolve issues  • Proactively monitor, troubleshoot, resolve, and report alerts to customers and internal  • Install hardware upgrades into existing equipment  • Support complex customer environments utilizing a variety of platforms and technologies  • Perform network, operating system, san storage, backup, firewall, dns, hardware, server, and virtual machine support / management tasks  • Manage physical security of the data center by authentication of guests and visitors * Accurately and professionally document all communication with customers  • Expand and maintain technical knowledge needed to support rapidly changing technical needs of customers System Administrator Tangoe, Inc - Austin, TX September 2013 to December 2015 Server and Application Administrator for day to day operations for environment of more than 10000 users.    • Responsible for administration of RHEL 5 and 6 Linux servers, including all PCI compliance patching using nexpose. Carry out patching operations both in production periods and during scheduled downtime.  • Maintaining VM's, Implementation of virtual hosts using ESXi 5.0 and 5.5, P2V older physical production servers to virtual.  • Inventory and documentation of primary data center at CoLo datacenter.  • Build DEV and UAT environments.  • Worked closely with the Network Operations Team.  • Wrote all technical documentation for IT Operations. Field Engineer AT&T - Austin, TX April 2013 to August 2013 • Participated in the initial deployment of AT&T's new Digital Life service in Austin. I was responsible for managing my own Digital Life Store/ Truck remotely while Endeavor Telecom completed their Austin office setup.  • Installation and configuration of AT&T Digital Life smart home services, performed on site customer education and quality testing of equipment. System Administrator Central Texas Technology Solutions - Round Rock, TX October 2012 to April 2013 • I was responsible for providing the following services for our clients: Managed IT Services, Remote Support, Business Disaster Recovery, Network Integration and Business Consulting, Security Assessment and Remediation, Wireless Networking and Security.  • Assisted clients with the following environments: Windows XP, 7, and 8 and Windows Server 2000, 2003, and 2008.  • Managed our online ticketing system as well as MITS services for remote monitoring and maintenance. Jr. Systems Administrator Global Electronic Technology, Inc - Austin, TX November 2011 to May 2012 • Assisted in the migration from Torrance, CA location to the Austin, TX location. This consisted of setting up all workstations, firewall configuration, switch configuration, VOIP implementation, virtualization of primary off-site servers, and documentation of the process.  • Managed IT support for both locations, troubleshooting both minor and major problems. Performed security assessments and audits for both sites, keeping us in compliance with the PCI security standards. Handled everyday IT issues. Education Associate of Applied Science in Computer Networking and Systems Administration Technology Texas State Technical College - Waco, TX 2018