Global Sales Administrator Biamp Systems Global Sales <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Biamp <span class="hl">Systems</span> Global Sales Administrator Portland, OR Experienced admin looking for growth Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Global Sales Administrator Biamp Systems Portland July 2018 to Present The World's leader in networked Audio & Video Systems  • I Support the global sales team and Executive leadership team by making domestic and international travel accommodations. Process expense report through Concur Solutions. Prepare agendas, and plan catered luncheons, Global Sales meetings for over 150 people, and dinner parties for leadership, board, and other meetings.    • Attended meetings to record minutes and serve as primary point of contact for all managers' team meetings.    • Maintained records and generated reports; utilizing word processing, spreadsheets, database CRM, and other software as required.    • Set-up and run 2 major showcase events a year; ISE in Amsterdam and InfoComm in Orlando, FL Executive Assistant/ Sales Insight Group - Portland, OR October 2015 to July 2018 • Oversee receptionist area, including greeting visitors and responding to telephone and in-person clientele. Handle all media and public relation projects. Coordinate office and social events, travel arrangements, and meeting for executive level staff and management using Concur. Screen resumes submitted to company and post openings to job boards, as well as orchestrate all first round interviews. Be first of contact to numerous visitors, including VIPs, vendors, and interview candidates. Ran all outside errands for upper level staff.    • Successfully orchestrated dozens of events ranging in size from small business cocktail parties/ dinners to a 275 person Purple Heart charity event in 2016.    • Ran product booths at festivals and events from start to finish Education B.A in Marketing Indiana University May 2013 Kelly School of Business Skills EVENT PLANNING, FILING, EXCEL, MICROSOFT OFFICE, TRAINING, Customer Service, Order Entry Additional Information Skills  • Expert in Microsoft Office, with a focus on Excel  • Web and tech savvy, require little to no training    • Event Planning  • Meeting Support, Documentation    • Travel and meeting management- Concur certified  • Filing and Organization  • Communication and Multi-tasking  • Event and party planning from start to finish