Desktop Certified Support Systems Technician Desktop Certified Support <span class="hl">Systems</span> Technician Desktop Certified Support Systems Technician Saint Augustine, FL I am an IT support professional that has adapted to a fast paced continuously changing environment over the last eight years, with a background in Computer Systems support, telecommunications, retail and customer service. Currently, as a Clinical Voice dictation analyst, I have been supporting hardware and software systems and resolving issues in a clinically demanding environment. Networking, working with end users, troubleshooting, and software analysis have been required skill sets. Work Experience Desktop Certified Support Systems Technician Dell - Jacksonville, FL August 2010 to September 2014 • Installed software, (EMR & vendor) modified and repaired hardware and resolved technical issues.  • Provided base level IT support to non-technical personnel within the business.  • Managed call flow and responded to technical support needs of customers.  • Met and exceeded Service Level Agreement times for incident and request tickets.  • Resolved customer issues in a clear, courteous and straightforward manner.  • Identified and solved technical issues with a variety of diagnostic tools.  • Followed up with clients to ensure optimal customer problem resolution.  • Managed within AD and Novel environments, performed network closet work as needed, configured and repaired nurse & lab network printers as required, worked with LIS (Lab Information Services ) as needed, configured all mobile devices, Ipad, Android, and Wyse Terminals.  • Supported off site primary care offices as required and within strict SLA guidelines of Ascension Health Information Services policies & standards.  • Prepared & maintained installation documentation for vendor related software and hardware on SharePoint as events occurred.  • Performed imaging operations and created images as needed.  • Documented new procedures when required. Business owner, student, Entrepreneur Saint Augustine, FL January 2009 to August 2010 IT Administrator Marine Park of Flagler - Saint Augustine, FL August 2006 to January 2009 • Translated technical specifications into detailed product requirements.  • Tested and implemented new technology.  • Maintained audiovisual equipment, including overhead projectors, laptops and video conferencing equipment.  • Delivered on-site IT and AV technical support for over fifty staff members.  • Maintained and monitor the server room, the wireless network and other server infrastructure.  • Implemented and maintained firewalls, series switches and security appliances.  • Troubleshot and maintained all networking devices and infrastructure across the enterprise including switches, routers and firewalls.  • Communicated with vendors to resolve network outages and periods of reduced performance.  • Documented all server and network problems and other unusual events in detail.  • Upgraded and expanded network systems and their components.  • Created databases using Microsoft Access, including inventory, report and invoicing databases.  • Completed remote repairs involving software solutions and hardware repairs.  • Defined security requirements for computer systems, including Server, workstations and personal computers.  • Served as liaison between the user community and software providers.  • Resolved computer hardware and software, printing, installation, word processing, email and operating systems issues.  • Repaired and replaced hardware, including MCK Citel VoIP, Nortel Phone Systems and respective peripherals.  • Ordered necessary supplies and parts to repair malfunctioning hardware.  • Restored data, Operating Systems, files, documents and drivers.  • Resolved virus and malware issues with a 70% success rate, Re-imaged those that could not be saved with Acronis and Norton Ghost disk utilities Education High School Diploma Mayde Creek High School - Houston, TX 1992 AS degree in Computer Sciences Northwest Houston Community College - Houston, TX Skills Active directory, Cisco, Encryption, Networking, Tcp/ip, Imaging, Pacs, Voip, Wireless, Dell certified, Tcp, Track-it, Mdm, Desktop engineer, Scripting, Hippa, Hl7, Deployment, Software configuration, Linux, SCCM, Desktop Support, Comptia, Help Desk, Service Desk, Tech Support, System Admin, System Administrator Additional Information Skills  • TCP/IP, Active Directory, GPO  • Strong communication skills  • Networking and Wireless  • Knowledgeable of Linux OS.  • Customer Service Expert  • Knowledgeable in Mac systems  • Experience with Nortel PBX POT telecom equipment/ VoIP.  • Point of Sale System Support  • Service Now ticket system experience  • Track-IT Ticket system  • MModal Voice Dictation support  • SCCM 2012 Imaging/deployment/MS updates.    • MDM (Mobile Device Management)  • Desktop and laptop repair    • A + Certification October 22,  2003 COMP001001733029  • Payroll Experience.  • AV Troubleshooting specialist & experience with Cisco SX80 and SX20 products.    • Technical Manual Writing Experience.  • Proficient with Microsoft Office Suites  • Previously Dell certified Technician  • Helpdesk call center Analyst    March 2017 to present - Flagler Hospital- Promoted to VOICE DICTATION ANALYST  • Analyst for MModal Fluency Direct and Fluency for Transcription support for clinical dictation.  • Scripting to install and deploy dictation software and patches.  • Supporting the local Physician community for voice dictation needs, commands & templates, local software installs and ADT QC.  • Supporting phone dictation transcription service.  • Working with Allscripts Sunrise Clinical systems and HL7.  • Serving as backup desktop support engineer for PACS & Desktop teams as needed.  • Updating and maintaining voice dictation servers and related systems.  • Provide Clinical training for dictation software usage to end users.    February 2016 - Promoted at Flagler Hospital to DESKTOP ENGINEER.  • Managed/Deployed windows security updates via SCCM (Software Configuration Manager) 2012 to 1,400 pc's in the environment. (*note* I did not have prior SCCM training, which was known at the time of promotion. Knowledge was gained off of forums and learning solutions such as CBT Nuggets.com and Pluralsight & manuals.  • Managed imaging and windows security updates duties.  • Established standards for software adoption and provided documentation to support them.  • Managed Mcaffee EPO server 4.5.1 for encryption requirements to managed endpoint devices per hospital security mandated practices.  • Scripted silent software installations, packaged, and pushed software as needed by analysts and fellow engineers. Also utilized Emco re-package manager.  • Supported PACS team for imaging and GPO assist as needed for clinical reading workstations. Assisted with RA1000 upgrade scripting for GE PACS software.  • Managedl Snapcoms desktop messaging solution server.  • Created and managed existing GPO's within Microsoft server 2003/08/2012 environments.  • Managed two Microsoft printer servers and supported Desktop staff as needed for printer mapping via GPO to increase efficiency.  • Configured and installed the faxfinder server solution for office staff requiring a secure fax line for HIPPA compliancy requirements.  • Single Sign support and deployment- Certified Imprivata Engineer.    August 2015 - Experienced promotion at Flagler Hospital to TECH II position within Desktop Support.  Responsibilities included:  • Imaging, creating images, locking machines down with local GPO and providing solutions to solve problems.  • Soldered and repaired small electronics, assisted with AV setup.  • Orated to 30 + people for NEO status to introduce them to our environment.  • Took charge of documenting and working with surgery center with onboard intent.  • Performed site assessment for new installs, and wrote executive summary requisitions for procuring equipment needed to complete solution.  • Interfaced frequently with executive team members for troubleshooting assistance with MAC's, PC's and office suite issues.