Systems and Network Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> and Network <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems and Network Administrator - Southwest Research Institute San Antonio, TX Over 5 years of hands-on enterprise IT experience with expert knowledge in Linux/Windows, Cloud Architecture, Automation, Databases, Networking, Security, Programming, and Web Development. Managed and architected private cloud and data center architectures with a high level of success. One of my core competencies is Linux and Windows administration, Scripting, SAN Storage, Continuous Integration, Automation, Openstack and AWS. I have a broad range of knowledge and expertise in the field of IT, having worked with many technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems and Network Administrator Southwest Research Institute May 2013 to Present Helped architect a private cloud running Openstack from concept to production. Part of this process involved moving each VM gradually off of each compute node and preparing it to run on OpenStack, setting up the networking, SAN storage, and Fiber Channel configurations. Set up the OpenStack Controller nodes to run PostgreSQL with Gluster as the method for storing Glance images and instances. The operating systems involved in the migration were a combination of Windows Server and Centos Linux. A combination of Puppet and Ansible are used to maintain base configurations on each system. Implemented massive amounts of scripted procedures on each server to help automate backups/reporting in PowerShell/BASH.    Manage CI/CD automation using Jenkins and puppet for production configuration management. As part of the new infrastructure I am project lead on dockerizing the current applications to be run on Openshift.    Project lead on architecting the disaster recovery of web applications, storage and databases across multi-site datacenters. Used Dell SAN storage replication along with incremental snapshots to ensure high availability for critical services.    Managed a full Windows environment complete with Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, Group Policies, and Certificate services. Auditing was configured on Active Directory to adhere to NIST requirements to track changes made to the whole environment. There were approximately 100+ nodes total between Windows and Linux servers and roughly 500+ desktop systems running mostly Windows. Managed System Center Configuration Manager 2012 and successfully replaced it with Desktop Central to manage server and workstation patching in an automated fashion.    Key Achievements:  • Implemented Openstack architecture to run critical production workloads for Linux and Windows  • Created web application high availability with HAProxy load balancers  • Implemented a DMZ Linux infrastructure with Confluence, Jira, Bitbucket, and a WebDAV file sharing resource.  • Implement and administer Microsoft System Center 2012 Configuration Manager and Operations Manager  • Created key Jenkin's build processes and pipelines  • Managed Active Directory, DNS, and DHCP  • Create Puppet modules for critical automation  • Maintain Brocade fiber channel environment for SAN connectivity  • System maintenance and support for Microsoft Windows, Suse Linux, Red Hat, and Mac OSX  • Manage and implement security auditing and processes in an enterprise environment  • Help maintain multi-site Cisco environment Technician I Alamo Heights School District May 2012 to May 2013 Responsible for installing and configuring Cisco wireless access points through a Wireless controller. Successfully deployed 75+ WAPs to each school. Installed and upgraded hundreds of client machines running Windows and Mac OS X using a disk imaging solutions Deploy Studio and Altiris. Responsible for troubleshooting and repairing hundreds of systems. Troubleshoot and repair Hitachi and Epson projectors. Implemented new network equipment in all of the new school buildings and coordinated the effort with the lead network administrator. Worked with other technicians to address all hardware and software issues.    Key Achievements:  • Configure and maintain Cisco Wireless Access Points  • Maintain Windows and Mac OS X client environment  • Troubleshoot and repair Windows and Mac OS X systems  • Troubleshoot and repair projectors  • Install network switch equipment Education Bachelor's of Science in Network Administration Western Governor's University April 2015 Associate's of Applied Science in Network Administration San Antonio College May 2012 Skills CISCO (6 years), RED HAT (5 years), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (5 years), BASH (5 years), System Administrator, Ccna, aws (2 years), Python (2 years) Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE    • Expert level Red Hat Linux Administration  • Jenkins/CircleCI  • Openstack/AWS Administration  • Load balancing experience with HAProxy  • Puppet and Ansible Automation  • Network and Systems Administration  • MySQL, MSSQL, PostgreSQL  • Splunk monitoring  • Amazon EC2 and Cloud based solutions  • PowerShell/Python/Bash scripting  • Windows and Linux Operating System Migrations  • Active Directory/LDAP  • Confluence/Jira/Bitbucket  • Disaster Recovery for critical web, database and storage IT resources  • Cisco networking maintenance    TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES    Cloud Experience:  Managing AWS/OpenStack resources, cloud compute administration, EC2, EBS, Puppet and Ansible Automation, Terraform    Operating Systems:  Windows Server, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, SuSe Enterprise  Linux, Mac OS X    Enterprise Software:  Hyper-V, Amazon EC2, SharePoint, Puppet, Ansible, Windows Clustering, Microsoft SQL Server 2008 R2, Systems Center 2012 (Configuration Manger, Service Manager, Operations Manager), MySQL, Tomcat, Apache, IIS, Samba, LVM, NIS, NFS, BIND, DHCP, SharePoint Designer, SharePoint Development    Networking:  Cisco switching, single mode and Multimode Fiber, Brocade Fiber Switch, Wireshark, Nmap    Programming Languages:  Python, Ruby, PowerShell, HTML5, CSS3, BASH, jQuery, JavaScript, SQL, C#