NOC Technician - Night Shift NOC Technician - Night Shift Technology Support Specialist / Desktop Support Laurel, MD To obtain a position that would allow me to contribute and enhance my skills by utilizing my knowledge and experience in the field of Tech Support / System Administration in Information Technology and Management. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience NOC Technician - Night Shift GANTECH - Columbia, MD July 2018 to Present GANTECH, Columbia, Maryland  NOC Technician - Night Shift (07/2018 to Present)                                          • Provide 1st contact resolution and remote hardware, software and network technical support to include technical guidance, equipment installations, and removals and even for some categories of Request for Change.  • Troubleshoot Layer 1 and Layer 2 network connectivity issues on routers and switches.  • Escalate unresolved incidents or problems to the appropriate service owner, business owner, account manager or Service Manager.  • Monitor 24/7, with automatic alerts that notify technicians when servers or network connections are down with SolorWinds Orion. Technology Support Specialist III Howard Hughes Medical Institute - Chevy Chase, MD September 2018 to July 2019 • Systems Administrator for KACE Systems Deployment Appliance Administrator Console imaging console, creating and deploying PC images.  • Systems Administrator for VMware Infrastructure - vSphere/vCenter/VDI environments.  • Create and manage Virtual Machines, install VMware tools, Templates, Cloning, deploy Virtual Machines and assign to the proper Pools.  • Administer rights and permissions to license, manage, and modify SaaS, such as Dropbox, Adobe Creative Cloud, Microsoft Office 365.   • Work with Dell representatives on yearly equipment hardware upgrade and recommendations.  • Provide training and mentor new hires/contractors on the company’s processes upon joining the Tech Support Team.  • Print server Administrator for Canon and Xerox multi-function copiers and printers. Technology Support Specialist II Howard Hughes Medical Institute - Chevy Chase, MD February 2018 to September 2018 • Responsible for administrating NAS storage/file sharing using CTERA for field sites/SOO’s.  • First point of contact when incidents are escalated to Tier III and implement a resolution in a timely manner.  • Create documentation for Knowledge Base, HOW-TO’s and share with Teammates and end users.  • Responsible for twenty-two Canon multi-function copiers hardware upgrade deployment project.  • Follow up with end users once tickets are resolved to gage their overall user end experience and satisfactions.  • Coordinate with People & Culture, hiring managers, to perform onboarding and offboarding task.   Technology Support Specialist I / Systems Administrator Howard Hughes Medical Institute - Chevy Chase, MD June 2016 to February 2018 •     Support users operating Windows 7/10 on DELL and Lenovo hardware.  •     Support MAC High Sierra and below OS, managed with Casper/Jamf.  •     Install/configure Secure Pulse VPN client.  •    Support users running Microsoft Office Suite and Microsoft Office 365 Cloud products.  •   Exceptional interpersonal skills, with a focus on rapport building, listening, and questioning skills.  •     Provide remote support, including installing and upgrading software, implementing file backups, installing anti-virus software and configuring systems and applications.  •     Troubleshoot virtual desktop issues (VDI) - connectivity problems. Systems Administrator/Desktop Support CFP Board - Washington, DC October 2015 to June 2016 • Support the CEO, CFO, CIO and the Executive Leadership Team (ELT) along with 143 users.  • Responsible for VOIP infrastructure including Cisco Call Manager.  • Setup and configure Cisco phones using CUCM for new users and perform MACD (Move, Add, Change, and Delete) users for Call Manager, and Voicemail.  • Handle high profile seminars/webinars and events that include VTC and A/V support.  • Administrate Adobe Connect, monitor webinars and live recordings.  • Install software, modify and repair hardware and resolve technical issues.  • Process incidents/requests in a high pressure, time sensitive environment via email, instant messaging, fax phone and desk side.  • Perform staff development duties and train IT support team members; author and develop user guides for system applications; monitor and analyze performance, and document operational activities.  • Monitor System Performance of Virtual memory, Disk and CPU utilization. IT Help Desk Specialist II University of Maryland Medical Systems - Columbia, MD February 2015 to October 2015 • Active Directory password resets, account creation and membership management.  • Troubleshoot and monitor Citrix sessions via the Citrix AppCenter (Citrix Farm).  • Troubleshoot VPN and connectivity issues with Juniper.  • Assist with the installation of Citrix receiver, troubleshoot .ica issues.  • Utilizing remote access, troubleshoot and install various applications.  • Provide advanced troubleshooting and assists customers with systems issues including Novell, AD, PC/Laptop/Mobile, printer, software, hardware, network connectivity and database problems over phone or remote support.  • Assist in training staff and mentor Help Desk staff. Help Desk Analyst TEKSystems - Catonsville, MD August 2014 to October 2015 • Responsible for supporting end users in a 24x7 capacity worldwide.  • Support a helpdesk that is going through a Windows 7 migration in a large enterprise environment troubleshooting to triage and/or resolve issues.  • Test, Rollout and Support Globally for RSA Secure ID Tokens as well as reset pins and generate token push to mobile devices.  • Create, route, and track incident tickets through HP Service Manager.  • Troubleshoot and monitor Citrix sessions via the Citrix AppCenter (Citrix Farm).  • Received and answered all calls and emails related to computer issues and interruptions to service and disruptions to working ability, as well as connectivity errors.  • Configure and troubleshoot Cisco AnyConnect VPN access.  • Connect remotely to clients PC's to resolve issues via LANDesk.  • Add/move/change user profiles, group policies/permissions, execute backups/migrations, corrupted profile recovery, etc. Jr. Systems Administrator/Desktop Support Specialist NGEN, LLC - Largo, MD June 2013 to August 2014 • Support the CEO, CFO and the Executive Leadership Team (ELT) along with 100 users.  • Part of a weekly on call rotation that handles 24-hour support for clients nationally.  • Engaged and tracked Level I and Level II technical issues with responsibility for the timely documentation, escalation, resolution and closure of tickets in AutoTask.  • Assist Help Desk customers with troubleshooting of computer related issues such as virus removal, software installs.  • Manage, create new user accounts and reset passwords in Active Directory, Exchange and Office365.  • Part of the support specialist team that migrated users from Exchange to Office365. Helpdesk Support Specialist Intern Immersive Concepts - Adelphi, MD August 2012 to May 2013 • Provision, configure, integrate, test, install, operate, troubleshoot, and maintain ( system level) Video Teleconferencing equipment to include Video Communication Servers (VCS), Telepresence Management Suite (TMS), Multipoint Control Units (MCU) and Cisco Telepresence Endpoints in the corporate integration lab  • Maintain integration lab Unified Communication testing environment to include, web collaboration services, for use-case testing  • Provision, configure, integrate, test, install, operate, troubleshoot, maintain, and repair ( system level) enterprise VOIP phone systems including VOIP phone units, voicemail, and the call manager system.  • Perform racking and equipment installation according to schematics.  • Establish and maintain cable management Education Associates in Information Systems in Information Technology University of Maryland University College (UMUC) Present Skills Networking. (4 years), self-starter (7 years), self-directed (7 years) Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ Present CompTIA Network+ Present CompTIA Security+ Present HDI Desktop Support Technician Present ITIL v3 January 2017 to Present Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate (MCSA) Windows 10 May 2017 to Present Additional Information • Technical Skills: Proficient in installation, configuration, and troubleshooting of various software applications, hardware and software tools.  • Highly motivated self-starter with experience in Tier 1, 2 and 3 support and Computer Networking.  • Demonstrated professionalism and tact when addressing issues that required to rapidly and cost-effectively resolutions of challenging and technical matters.  • Quickly study in mastering new technology; equally successful in both team and self-directed settings; and proficient in a range of computer systems, languages, tools and IT methodologies.