Engineering Manager Engineering Manager Engineering Manager - LEONARDO DRS Rock Island, IL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Engineering Manager LEONARDO DRS - Rock Island Arsenal, IL 2016 to Present Lead three separate teams of Network Administration, System Administration, and Cyber Security personnel  supporting a global communications network for the Department of Defense (DoD). Promoted to oversee the end- to-end lifecycle of technology and engineering projects across multiple teams, including developing, planning, and  executing project plans.  • Maximize team performance by effectively communicating strategic project plans, direction, and performance  expectations, as well as operations and project objectives.  • Optimized project performance by aligning engineering resources to better support the goals and requirements  of each project; monitor availability and performance of all network nodes through Solarwinds NPM.  • Place a strategic focus on maintaining maximum uptime while simultaneously prioritizing cyber security, technology, and engineering efforts.  • Partner with internal and external stakeholders, including directly with customers, to develop the proper scope for each project; this allowed consistency in identifying risks, setting expectations, and meeting client needs.  • Integrated technology and business solutions by leveraging strong IT experience and knowledge to evaluate  Federal government parameters, including technical, management, staffing, and Statements of Work (SOW). Systems Team Lead 2015 to 2016 Led a team of 5 direct reports comprised of System Administrators managing and maintaining all applications, 80+  servers, and 500+ workstations in support of a global communications network. Managed a virtual environment using  VMware vSphere 5.5, performed VNX SAN management using EMC Unisphere, and worked with Cyber Security on STIG and IAVM processes.  • Ensured on schedule and on budget project completion by developing and executing all project plans for the Systems team, and associated project initiatives.  • Successfully relocated services from a physical environment to virtual environment hosted at three  geographically separate data centers; completed the large-scale migration 2 months ahead of schedule.  • Owned the full Windows Domain network utilizing Certificate Services to employ local PKI services, DNS and DHCP  for IP and URL management, and User and Computer Services for controlling accesses and privileges.  • Drove the successful migration from locally hosted MS Exchange and SharePoint environments to Government- hosted enterprise services, followed by the decommissioning of both environments post-migration.  • Eliminated downtime during local outages by configuring and deploying Microsoft SQL Cluster, as well as by migrating databases from a standalone instance.    on  Professional Experience, Continued Systems Administrator II 2014 to 2015 Managed a Windows Domain network with Active Directory tools including Users and Computers, Group Policy, DNS, and DHCP with 60+ Windows 2008 and 2008 R2 servers, and 250+ workstations. Served as the primary resource for  backend services for MS SharePoint farm, Exchange Server, and File Sharing services.  • Centralized patch management for 80+ Windows servers and 500+ Windows workstations by creating and deploying a full Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager 2007 R3 hierarchy.  • Reduced configuration time for new workstations from 6+ hours to 90 minutes by utilizing OS Deployment through SCCM to simplify the imaging process across all workstations.  • Administered Microsoft SQL instance with 15+ application databases, including creating scheduled  maintenance, backups, logging, and indexing to reduce operational efforts. Infrastructure Analyst TEK SYSTEMS - Moline, IL 2013 to 2013 Managed and maintained 60+ Windows servers, including Windows Server 2003 and 2008 R2. Led troubleshooting of Citrix servers and VMware virtual environments across North America. Management Consultant BAY TECHNOLOGIES CONSULTING GROUP - Rock Island Arsenal, IL 2012 to 2013 Managed 50+ virtual Windows server hosted on Microsoft Hyper-V infrastructure. Installed and configured Microsoft  System Center Operations Manager 2007 R2 to automate monitoring, notifications, and basic tasks to increase  efficiency. Applied patches for IAVM mitigation using WSUS and Windows Powershell.  • Aligned systems, processes, and business goals by developing and applying security measures to support DoD  Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Processes. SCCM Administrator and Tier III Support DELL SERVICES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT - Rock Island Arsenal, IL 2010 to 2011 Sr. Service Desk Technician 2009 to 2010 Help Desk Technician 2008 to 2009 Recruited originally as a Help Desk Technician and received two promotions in two years to Senior Service Desk  Technician and SCCM Administrator and Tier III support. Provided advanced-level troubleshooting in Windows  Desktop and SCCM, as well as packaging and deployment of software.  • Wrote and introduced new policies, best practices, and Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for the deployment of Windows 7 to 6,000+ Windows XP and Vista workstations.  • Successfully deployed software applications and updates by developing collections with scheduled queries and advertisements, ensuring each proper version was installed.  • Streamlined the migration process by utilizing Windows Automated Installation Kit to capture user profiles and data throughout the migration.    TOOLS & TECHNOLOGY  Microsoft System Center (Configuration Manager, Operations Manager)  MS Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, Project, Visio) MS SQL Dell & EMC Applications  Active Directory Cisco Switches and Routers Palo Alto Firewalls Education Computer and Information Sciences Coursework Butler University Links http://linkedin.com/in/kielengstrom