Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Housecall IT Arlington, VA Work Experience Systems Administrator Housecall IT - Washington, DC September 2017 to Present Provide technical support for 12 offices in the House of Representatives and their corresponding district  offices. Manage and administer Mac, PC, Android, and iPhone devices. Troubleshoot Windows 10 and Microsoft 365 on both Mac and PC. Hardware and software assistance for clients including multi-  functioning printers. Active Directory management for each office along with computer and printer  purchasing. Use Slack to communicate effectively with a team of administrators for additional  knowledge and troubleshooting. Position requires composure along with excellent verbal and written  communication skills. Genius, Technical Specialist Apple, Inc - Arlington, VA March 2014 to September 2017 Provided creative and innovative solutions to complex user-based computer software and hardware is- sues. Maintained a high level of technical expertise and understanding of all products and constantly  changing processes. Gave and received feedback to and from leadership and colleagues. Assisted and explained new processes to fellow employees. Repaired products and relationships with customers.  Mentored fellow employees by listening and giving constructive advice and feedback. Replaced  hardware components in Mac desktops, laptops, and servers. Shift Supervisor, Assistant Store Manager Starbucks Coffee Company - Annandale, VA November 2006 to January 2009 Assisted store manager in executing store operations. As a team lead, was responsible for deploying and delegating tasks to create the 'Starbucks Experience' for customers by providing legendary customer  service promptly, delivering quality beverages and products, and maintaining a clean and comfortable  environment. Recognized and reinforced individual and team accomplishments by using organizational  tools; an ability to direct the work of others effectively and efficiently; enriching the lives of customers; and excellent cash handling skills. Education Associate's Degree Northern Virginia Community College May 2015 Annandale High School June 2005 Skills System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory, Vmware Certifications/Licenses ACIT Present Apple Certified IPhone Technician ACMT Present Apple Certified Mac Technician Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ipeokevgmvp9kfu3 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.