Administrator and IT Specialist <span class="hl">Administrator</span> and IT Specialist Computer Science New Grad Royal Palm Beach, FL Recent graduate with a Bachelor of Science in Computer Science seeking an entry-level software engineering position. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Administrator and IT Specialist Academy for Positive Learning - Lake Worth, FL February 2011 to Present • In charge of creating, maintaining, and entering information into databases for timekeeping and payroll for teachers.  ? Responsible for monitoring academic and administrative computer systems and networks for the school.  ? Developed and currently maintain a website & social media platforms to attract new student enrollment.  ? Actively maintained computer equipment (routers, modems, network switches, etc.) Computer and Information Systems Internship American Credit Bureau - Boynton Beach, FL December 2018 to February 2019 ? Utilized SQL to create a database for administrators to search, modify and update existing customer tables for  debt records and files.  ? Created web pages for the debt collection agency and maintained related websites.  ? Developed a program to filter spam from denial of service attacks (DDoS). The system provided protection for  end-user email accounts. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Florida Atlantic University - Royal Palm Beach, FL August 2016 to May 2019 Associate in Computer Science Palm Beach State College - Lake Worth, FL August 2016 to May 2019 Skills Microsoft Office (3 years), C++, C, HTML, SQL Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/mauricio-cuervo Awards HONORS AND SCHOLARSHIPS ? Graduated with honors Cum Laude  ? Dean’s List multiple semesters  ? Phi Beta Kappa  ? Theordore R. and Vivian M. Johnson Scholarship  ? Vocational Rehabilitation State Grant (specifically for those with disabilities) Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/5waetax2kei2tdr4 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Groups Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPC) July 2019 to Present Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) July 2019 to Present Additional Information COURSES AND PROJECTS  Principles Software Engineering (Spring 2019)  ? Part of a team that created a Web application for elderly people to search, modify and update their  existing account medical information records, files and make appointments with their doctors.  ? Tools used: Brackets, SQL, Window Server 2019  Embedded Systems (Fall 2018)  Created a product for children called the E-Cube. The product’s main function is to change LED lights and color,  based on how you turn, shake and speak into E-Cube. It has an embedded microcontroller device with a sound  sensor, an accelerometer and a gyroscope. Added the software logic to interact with children under certain  conditions.  ? Tools used: MSP430G2, Energia, Arduino, C programming.  Website Development (Summer 2017)  Created and maintained the website for the Academy for Positive Learning School. The website includes  webpages for curricula, parent information, admission and contacts. A photo gallery was added to the website to  help promote the schools facilities and share student events.  ? Tools used: Atom, Winx, Brackets