Solar Installation Supervisor Solar Installation Supervisor Lead Installer / Systems Technician / Supervisor / Trainer Citrus Heights, CA To obtain a challenging and exciting position where my talents and natural abilities, together with my high degree of motivation, will be of mutual benefit. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Solar Installation Supervisor Grid Alternatives - Sacramento, CA May 2019 to Present • Supervise and train volunteers and trainees on the installation of residential PV systems.  • Responsible for materials, timely completion of projects, instructing, and enforcing safety standards, and passing all inspections. Lead Installer / Systems Technician Dynamic Digital Displays - Rancho Cordova, CA July 2016 to June 2019 • National and international travel-based installations of advanced, very large high resolution LED displays, and their control systems in extremely high-profile retail spaces.  • Manage, lead, and train local laborers to install, troubleshoot, and repair displays  • Responsible for occasional troubleshooting and repairs on existing displays.  • Daily use of Windows 10 and Ubuntu based Linux systems Photovoltaic Systems Lead Installer / Site Surveyor Four Phase Energy - Rocklin, CA June 2013 to July 2016 • Ensure PV installs conform to the NEC and permitted local building department codes.  • Responsible for all electrical connections: High voltage: DC, AC, grid interconnection. Low voltage: Internet Monitoring.  • Responsible for materials, crew safety, adherence to safety standards, and passing all inspections.  • Experienced in the installation and replacement of load centers and service panels  • Performed Site Surveys by measuring potential installation surface areas, detailing any obstructions, and capturing shade analysis using a Solmetric Sun Eye 100 series device. Contract Administrator Spherion - Roseville, CA July 2011 to November 2011 • Manage Channels partners' contractual support agreements and customer contract environments for Hewlett-Packard server hardware, and software configurations in an SAP, GIS database environment.  • Formal training and daily use in Microsoft Office programs: Excel, Word, and Outlook, as well as Formal training in SAP production environment software as tailored for the Hewlett-Packard contractual business.  • Daily professional business level customer contact by phone and email correspondence. Engineering Technician Steve Miller QA - Citrus Heights, CA December 2010 to July 2011 Inspect and document electrical connection schedules for safety and future reference for the San Juan Unified School District. Education Associate in Electronic Systems Technology American River College - Sacramento, CA 2010 to 2013 High school Mesa Verde High School - Citrus Heights, CA 1999 to 2003 Skills Low Voltage, Lead Installation of Solar PV Systems (3 years), Microsoft Office Suite (10+ years), Windows 7 (9 years), Ubuntu Linux (1 year), Solar, Windows 10 (4 years), Computer Building (10+ years), Lead Installer / Supervisor (6 years) Certifications/Licenses OSHA 10 Advanced Solar Systems Technology Cert. 2014 to Present NABCEP entry level Certification Osha 30