Senior IT Analyst / Systems Administrator Senior IT Analyst / <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior IT Analyst / Systems Administrator IT Professional with over 5 years of experience providing System Administration and user support. In-depth knowledge and understanding of numerous software packages and operating systems. Skilled in providing customer and End-User Help Desk Support. Easily identify and resolve technical issues and concerns in relations to networking, systems, and servers. Excellent communication and customer service. Work Experience Senior IT Analyst / Systems Administrator Hyla Soft Inc - Chicago, IL February 2014 to May 2019 • Successfully lead deployment and training teams in SPC and MES projects leading to increased customer retention  • Helped manufacturing customers automate and improve their production process by creating customized SPC & MES projects  • Resolved database issues writing SQL scripts using SQL Server Management Studios 2012, manage all databases  • Performed software training and data analysis to improve production processes  • Provided hardware and software support for Windows PC and tablet users  • Managed LAN/WLAN, G Suite, Office 365, Cisco accounts and on-premise applications  • Developed technical documentation and user manuals  • Configured and set up VMs using VMware Workstation 12 Help Desk Tier I Follett Higher Education - Aurora, IL April 2013 to October 2013 • Managed network accounts in Active Directory and Windows applications  • Troubleshoot service requests for Windows 7, Mac OS X and browser issues  • Troubleshoot hardware and software issues on Windows 7 desktops and laptops.  • Troubleshot and resolved network issues.  • Used ticket management software to document resolutions and ticket statuses using Sales Force CRM application  • Used malware software to remove viruses from infected pcs.  • Restored and upgraded OS and hard drives.  • Provided excellent technical support and customer service by phone and email  • Escalated hardware and software issues to Tier II and Tier III technical support levels  • Trained new employees on software applications  • Achieved a 98% customer retention and satisfaction rating Maintenance Software Engineer Schaumburg, IL January 2013 to February 2013 • Performed validation testing on Windows applications and resolved software bugs by writing VB.NET code.  • Deployed VB.NET code fixes to the production server after validation testing passed.  • Managed tickets in Salesforce, documenting corrected VB.NET code.  • Presented issues and resolution to management is weekly status meetings. Education Bachelor of Science in Technical Management in Technical Management DeVry University - Addison, IL Skills DATABASE, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2012, SQL, ACTIVE DIRECTORY