Financial Solutions Advisor Financial Solutions Advisor Financial Solutions Advisor - MERRILL East Greenwich, RI Work Experience Financial Solutions Advisor MERRILL - East Greenwich, RI July 2017 to Present • Provides full service financial guidance to our affluent clients.  • Advises clients on financial and investment decisions including retirement planning, short-term and long-term asset goals, and portfolio management.  • Conducts reviews of investment portfolios and recommends solutions to help reach financial objectives.  • Effectively performs in a team oriented and highly collaborative environment.  • Provides mentorship and training to new hires.  • Creates and fosters a strong and effective sales team within the Financial Center.  • Collaborates with Consumer Banking Market Managers to motivate and improve under-performing branches. Licensed Investment Specialist Lincoln, RI August 2015 to July 2017 • Built client relationships leading to over $4mil in new assets.  • Gained extensive knowledge about FINRA and securities regulation.  • Effectively performed in a team oriented and highly collaborative environment.  • Developed policy and procedure guidelines for new hires.  • Assists supervisors and managers with administrative duties including sending team emails, coordinating events, updating team stats, and document shipping. Client Systems Administrator Rhode Island Air National Guard - North Kingstown, RI September 2010 to September 2016 • Enforced policy and procedures to new Airman.  • Created continuity guides for purposes of training new recruits.  • Coordinated and managed base wide projects and kept base commanders informed.  • Delegated tasks to team members and ensured all projects met deadlines. Manager Rhode Island Air National Guard - North Kingstown, RI February 2012 to December 2013 • Administered the base Secret Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNET).  • Implements and manages the Air Force Electronic Key Management System (AFEKMS) program.  • Handled classified information and accounting.  • Reviewed Department of Defense's policy updates and implemented them base wide. Education Community College of the Air Force 2010 to 2015 Johnson & Wales University 2009 to 2010 Skills SERIES 7, SECURITY, OPERATIONS, OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT, WEALTH MANAGEMENT, MICROSOFT OFFICE Additional Information KEY SKILLS & CERTIFICATIONS  • United States Veteran • Operations Management  • FINRA Series 7, 63, & 66 Certified • CRPC (Charted Retirement Planning Counselor) • Wealth Management    DEVELOPMENT COURSES & AWARDS  • Airman Leadership Graduate • Recipient of National • Microsoft Office Suite  • Top Secret Security Clearance Defense Medal • John Hopkins Leadership Award