Linux Administrator Linux <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Linux Administrator - Piedmont Airlines Cleveland, OH Highly motivated Windows and Linux expert offering years of experience as an open source aficionado and creator of a healthy and robust networking environment. Work Experience Linux Administrator Piedmont Airlines - Cleveland, OH March 2016 to Present • Responsible for up to 1500 servers and over 10,000 users in a global technology environment. LINUX OS supported web services, email, and a significant CRM application for this client.  • Led technical site relocation project involving up to 40 servers successfully completing project in a single weekend.  • Diagnosed and resolved complex load balancing issue by phone for global site amazing and satisfying client.  • Converted Linux systems from local password authentication to LDAP and NFS homes significantly increasing administrative efficiency.  • Coordinated resources with varied programming expertise to create a holistic solution to system update and service interruption issues.  • Educated users on business interruption risk and received their buy in for system standardization and update.  • Develop tools/scripts to automate integration with other IT tools in support of accurate asset management, cyber reporting capabilities and to manage licenses.  • Designed and deployed a scalable Linux/Windows infrastructure that seamlessly integrated a network storage server.  • Jumpstart, configured, updated Solaris servers with Solaris 8, 9, and 10.  • Support functional testing, performance testing, backward compatibility testing and prosecution break fix testing environments. Windows/Linux Administrator DTLR Corporate - Charlotte, NC May 2015 to March 2016 • Install, configure, and upgrade the following operating systems and applications, Windows 7, Windows Vista, Windows XP, Windows NT, Windows 98, DOS, Outlook, MS Office 2010, MS Office 2007, MS Office 2003, Windows Server 2008, Windows Server 2003 and Active Directory.  • Jumpstart, configured, updated Solaris servers with Solaris 8, 9, and 10.  • Installed, configured, and updated Linux machines, with Red Hat, Debian, and CentOS.  • Troubleshoot, analyze and resolve computer problems related to both hardware and software.  • Deploy new equipment and install applications, which enable the customer to perform their job function on updated equipment which leads to higher work output.  • Researched and consulted with customer on new hardware purchases to insure that the proper equipment was purchased which provided high productivity within their budget.  • Performed CA CEM Administration & CA Wily Introscope 6,7,8,9 administration, configuration, tuning and migrations • Provided in depth technical expertise in Operating System platforms focusing on AIX, Redhat, SUSE running on IBM/HP/Cisco hardware.  • Converted Linux systems for local passwords authentication to LDAP and NFS homes significantly increasing administrative efficiency. Systems Support Analyst High Class Marketing LLC - Toledo, OH December 2012 to March 2015 • Suggested and provided IT solutions to executive level management.  • Analyzed systems modeling, simulation, and full data analysis.  • Deployed system upgrades and integration activities in support of future systems.  • Developed and conducted tests to ensure systems meet documented user requirements.  • Developed and maintained high availability systems in multiple remote locations.  • Developed and managed architecture transition plans and enterprise integration activities to include compliance and interoperability consideration.  • Established a defined framework within an analytic environment.  • Focused on troubleshooting interoperability.  • Monitored infrastructure capabilities and troubleshooting • Participated in the development of Overall System architecture • Participated in the upgrading of operating systems and design of systems enhancements • Expertise in installing, configuring and administering Web Servers like IBM HTTP server, Sun One Apache Tomcat Web Servers.  • Experienced in migrating existing applications from WebLogic 7.x.x version to WebLogic 8.0.x Application server on UNIX, LINUX and WINDOWS platforms.  • Strong knowledge in Clustering EJB objects, JDBC connections and JMS connection factories. Education The University of Toledo - Toledo, OH Skills LDAP (3 years), Linux (5 years), NETWORK FILE SYSTEM (3 years), NFS (3 years), Solaris (3 years), Vmware, Active Directory, Linux Administrator, System Admin Additional Information TECHNOLOGIES  • Web Server Administration  • Perl, Bash, Python Scripting  • Storage Technologies (FC, NFS, iSCSI)  • CFEngine and Puppet  • VMWare  • IBM HTTP Server  • IBM ITCAM  • IBM WSRR  • IBM UrbanCode Deploy  • LDAP Active Directory  • Java Script  • JBOSS  • JIRA Enterprise Instance  • Apache Tomcat  • Windows Server, Linux, Unix  • Solaris