Field Service Technician Field Service Technician Field Service Technician - EbryIT Houston, TX Work Experience Field Service Technician EbryIT - Houston, TX June 2019 to Present Implemented Active Directory for user accounts and configured end user accounts in Microsoft  Exchange.  • Kept detailed inventory of all desktop and laptop parts in a database to ensure replacements  were checked in and out accurately during and after a service repair.  • Support including networks, workstations, peripherals, security, timeclocks and phone systems.  • Imaging, installation, and repair of desktop and laptop computers in an educational  environment.  • Network troubleshooting of wired and wireless connections. Junior Security Analyst United Parcel Service - Houston, TX December 2018 to June 2019 Performed Risk Assessments to identify system vulnerabilities and create Risk Assessment  Reports.  • Provided detailed status updates on existing cyber security incidents daily to include follow up  with client/customer to ensure satisfactory resolution.  • Provided high level analysis on security data to identify significant activity.  • Prepares or assists in the preparation of assurance documentation to support the evaluations. Systems Administrator United Parcel Service - Houston, TX September 2015 to December 2018 Responsible for all repairing and replacing computer system related problems as they arrive on a daily bases.  • Created online documentation to help employees resolve day to day issues.  • Provides customer support in resolving issues with incorrect labels product troubleshooting or general questions.  • Performs day-to-day maintenance and installation of server, network equipment, virtual  machines, messaging, backups and storage.  • Building, configuring, patching, upgrading and troubleshooting of physical and virtual Windows  servers (rack mounts/blades, and VMs). Computer Technician DelFix Tech - Houston, TX March 2014 to July 2015 • Provided affordable and professional residential computer service/repair.  • Educated customers on proper usage of hardware/software and preventive measures to insure  problems do not return  • Took systems off-site as needed for major repairs/rebuilds.  • Contacted customers regarding repair status, soliciting additional information, and provided  work estimates. Education Associate in Computer Science Houston Community College - Houston, TX 2017 to Present Skills Cisco, Dhcp, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Telnet, Vlan, Vpn, Wins, Dns, Networking, C#, Computer programming, Python, Sql, Ftp, Smtp, Ios, Linux, Software troubleshooting, Pop3 Additional Information Skills  • Windows/Linux/OSX/Cisco IOS    • PC Hardware/Software troubleshooting    • Networking protocols (TCP/IP, DHCP, DNS, WINS, ARP, FTP, Telnet, SMTP, POP3, NAT, VPN,  VLAN).    • Computer programming (C#, Python, SQL).