NETWORK/ SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR NETWORK/ <span class="hl">SYSTEMS</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> NETWORK/ SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Hagerstown, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience NETWORK/ SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR DALB, INC - Kearneysville, WV April 2017 to June 2019 • Swap-Out and, troubleshoot software issues; Reimaging computers/hard drives  • Upgrade over 2.3 miles of CAT 6 cable through the facility to remove antiquated routers and switches.  • Identifying, repairing, resolving and documenting end user technical issues regarding basic network/desktop/laptop support, printers and LAN cable drops  • Manages and maintain active directory ( adding and deleting users, password reset )  • Addressing user tickets regarding hardware, software and networking issues  • Ip address, sub netting and fixing wireless LAN  • CISCO router configuration ( Sub netting, Ip routing, basic Access List configuration)  • CISCO Switch configuration (VLAN, Spanning tree protocol and Port security)  • Deploy WYSE thin clients to cut down costs of physical hardware. Desktop support Technician Parkland Hospital - Dallas, TX March 2015 to April 2017 • Assisted customers in setup of Network, printers, scanners and Laptop/desktop  • Work with special project team to configure and set parameter for Zebra label to Epic and Medcopia software  • Maintain spare parts/inventory list monthly and coordinate for any disposal requisites  • Categorize and prioritize end user support requests (incidents) and service requests utilizing ticketing system to track tickets and provide up-to-date status and information.  • Performs day-to-day client account management, adding, deleting, and modifying user accounts TECHNICAL SUPPORT SPECIALIST UT Southwestern Hospital - Dallas, TX January 2014 to March 2015 • Provided technical support to over 1900 employees (on-site and remote), consultants, and academic personnel.  • Used tools such as Go to Assist and Bomgar to remote into employee's machines to troubleshoot issues.  • Manage mobile devices, provide level 1 technical support to doctors, nurses and health care professionals  • Assist in the installation of various computers, computing system, networks telecommunication and video components.  • Configured new accounts, exits, and transfer employees and build new hardware for deployment.  • Performed regular updates of all client computers. Used system imaging software to deploy new Windows PCs  • Troubleshoot end user connectivity issues within the office and replaced hardware as necessary. Education A.S. in Computer Networking and cyber in security Hagerstown Community College 2019 CCNA Northlake College - Irving, TX Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, SWITCHING, VMWARE, NETWORKING, TECHNICAL SUPPORT, MICROSOFT OFFICE, System Administrator Assessments Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Completed June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/hwgvegsyoav4auhg Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.