Regional Surveillance Network Technician Regional Surveillance Network Technician Cleveland, OH Technically-advanced information technology specialist successful in software administration and data communications.  ? Dedicated Surveillance Officer  ? Accomplished U.S. Marine possessing leadership training and skills  ? Public speaking experience with an emphasis on facilitating  ? Troubleshooting Proficiency  ? Technical help desk experience  ? Task oriented to the project on hand with a growth mindset when given feedback Work Experience Regional Surveillance Network Technician Jack Entertainment 2017 to Present Install, maintain, troubleshoot, and monitor the digital/analog surveillance camera system within the guidelines for the Jack Entertainment properties, Horse Racing, Gaming, OLC and OCCC.  ? Communicate between all key people  ? Maintain proper logs that comply with state and internal regulations Data Systems Administrator US Marine Corps March 2013 to Present Specialize in the use of Microsoft based technologies such as MS Exchange/Server, Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) modules.  ? Evaluate and resolve customer information systems problems, effect required hardware upgrades, and repair existing systems to maintain mission capability. Squad Leader US Marine Corps March 2013 to Present Supervise and guide workforces to create a better and more proficient work environment.  ? Utilize the ability to communicate information and ideas in speaking so others will understand.  ? Monitor emergency frequencies to detect distress calls and respond by dispatching emergency equipment.  ? Excel in planning and agenda creation through the use of Microsoft Office. Surveillance Officer JACK Thistledown Racino February 2013 to 2017 Provide CCTV and personal observations of all departments and applicable job functions to assure compliance with established laws, regulations, policies, procedures and internal controls.  ? Look for criminal activity of any kind.  ? Cooperate with Security and department heads to assure property protection.  ? Complete accurate, timely reports on all incidents.  ? Adhere to regulatory, departmental and company policies. Foreign Security Force Advisor US Marine Corps December 2015 to November 2016 Created a curriculum for a foreign country's data communication program.  ? Taught courses and gave suggestions to a foreign military's senior communications executive.  ? Investigated 10 years of legal documents and corrected deficiencies resulting in better organization and tracking of $500,000 worth of equipment.  ? Formulated and executed the construction of a data communication network to facilitate proper exchange of information. Education Associates Jamestown Community College September 2009 to May 2012