System Administrator <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator Utuado, PR, US Over 10 years of combined experience in education and training, information systems maintenance and network  administration. Possess high ethical standards and great organizational skills. Great motivator and highly motivated;  intellectually driven and loyal to superiors. Proven analytical skills and advanced knowledge of computerized  applications. Fluent in English and Spanish. Unblemished reputation as a trusted consultant to upper management and  partners. Have strong written and verbal communication skills. Resilient team player who enjoys collaborating with others  and contributing to the overall mission. Work Experience System Administrator ICPR Junior College February 2018 to August 2019 • Install and configure computers, laptops, security cameras, alarms, printers, Ids  • Maintaining Data base  • Basic, intermediate and advance IT support  • Server Management  • Network Administrator  • App troubleshooting  • Active Directory  • Create users and assign functions  • Working hand in hand with high level staff  • Computer refresh\replacement  • Hardware and software Troubleshooting  • Switch Configurations  • Hardware, toners recycle  • Patches  • Videoconference meetings  • Personnel training in basic computer functions Customer support\ IT related issues ABBVIE APL-ABL BARCELONETA August 2017 to November 2017 August 2017- Nov 2017  • Computer refresh  • Laptop reimaging, software installation, asset management, SharePoint, outlook, active directory  • Customer support\ IT related issues IT SUPPORT Bristol Myers Squibb/Netser IT Group July 2016 to August 2017 • Install and support LANs, WANs, network segments, Internet, and intranet systems.  • Install and maintain network hardware and software.  • Analyze and isolate issues.  • Monitor networks to ensure security and availability to specific users.  • Evaluate and modify system's performance.  • Identify user needs.  • Determine network and system requirements.  • Maintain integrity of the network, server deployment, and security.  • Ensure network connectivity throughout a company's LAN/WAN infrastructure is on par with technical  considerations.  • Ensure data integrity and protocols transferring Metadata  • System repair  • Data recovery, Data entry  • Assign configuration of authentication and authorization of directory services.  • Maintain network facilities in individual machines, such as drivers and settings of personal computers as well as printers.  • Maintain network servers such as file servers, VPN gateways, and intrusion detection systems.  • Administer servers, desktop computers, printers, routers, switches, firewalls, phones, personal digital assistants,  smartphones, software deployment, security updates and patches. Network Administrator Metropolitan Hospital Utuado - Utuado, P.R., US August 2014 to February 2015 • Install and support LANs, WANs, network segments, Internet, and intranet systems.  • Install and maintain network hardware and software.  • Analyze and isolate issues.  • Monitor networks to ensure security and availability to specific users.  • Evaluate and modify system's performance.  • Identify user needs.  • Determine network and system requirements.  • Maintain integrity of the network, server deployment, and security.  • Ensure network connectivity throughout a company's LAN/WAN infrastructure is on par with technical  considerations.  • Design and deploy networks.  • Perform network address assignment.  • Assign configuration of authentication and authorization of directory services.  • Maintain network facilities in individual machines, such as drivers and settings of personal computers as well as printers.  • Maintain network servers such as file servers, VPN gateways, and intrusion detection systems.  • Administer servers, desktop computers, printers, routers, switches, firewalls, phones, personal digital assistants,  smartphones, software deployment, security updates and patches. Information Technology Director Dorado Community Health - Vega Alta, P.R., US March 2014 to August 2014 Responsible for Windows 2003 and 2012 Servers upkeep. Accountable for backup, maintenance and optimization  of systems.  • Technical Consultant to company CEO in the areas of network design, and ad-hoc technical related requests.  • Performed port forwarding, user configuration, data monitoring and system policy implementation.  • Flawlessly Performed and Directed the Following tasks:  o Computer Repairs  o Hub Configurations  o CCTV Installation, Maintenance and Monitoring  o Web Security  o Email Administration  o Installed Servers, Routers, and Cable cat 5 System Administrator Headstart - Utuado, P.R., US October 2012 to August 2014 • Maintained system efficiency.  • Troubleshoot problems reported by users.  • Made recommendations for future upgrades.  • Maintained network and system security.  • Monitor networks to ensure security and availability to specific users.  • Identify user needs.  • Maintain integrity of the network, server deployment, and security.  • Perform network address assignment.  • Assign routing protocols and routing table configuration.  • Assign configuration of authentication and authorization of directory services.  • Maintain network facilities in individual machines, such as drivers and settings of personal computers as well as printers.  • Administered servers, desktop computers, printers, routers, switches, firewalls, phones, personal digital assistants,  smartphones, software deployment, security updates and patches. Computer and Information Systems Instructor Tecnofor Puerto Rico, Inc - Hato Rey, PR February 2013 to March 2014 Successfully Trained 3,000 educators of Puerto Rico Department of Education in Microsoft Office  Suite.  • Assessed and certified their teaching methods with advances in technology.  • Updated teams on software functionalities and advances. System Administrator and Support University of Puerto Rico - Arecibo, PR May 2012 to October 2012 • Performed Maintenance and System Monitoring for university departments advanced programs  • Implemented preventative measure to ensure systems ran flawlessly each morning.  • Audited systems to ensure that followed universities policies and procedures.  • Provided direct support on cat 5 cabling installs and repairs.    • Administered servers, desktop computers, printers, routers, switches, firewalls, phones, personal digital assistants,  smartphones, software deployment, security updates and patches. Education Bachelor's Degree in Information Technology in Information Technology National College University September 2010 Skills Desktop Support, Help Desk, It Specialist, Information Technology, Comptia, Network Support, Computer Repair Certifications/Licenses A valid IT Specialist certification Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES  Budget Development • Audit • Leadership • Communication Skills • Strong Organization Skills • Proven  Analytical & Problem-Solving Skills• Network Administration• System Administration •Policy Management •  Web Security • System Maintenance    TECHNICAL SUMMARY  Proficient on the use of Microsoft Windows Server knowledge, Windows 2000X Active Directory knowledge,  WINS Servers experience, Wintel Security and Wintel Server Configuration experience. Windows Server,  CCTV, Microsoft Word, Excel, Window 7,8,10  Office suite, Basic on HTML and  C Sharp Programming languages.