Computer Repair Technician Computer Repair Technician Computer Repair Technician - Csat Solutions LP Houston, TX I am an astute and versatile Information Technology Professional with 6+ years of experience and a proven  knowledge of demonstrated success implementing strategic IT initiatives that improve business functionality. Skilled  and experienced in systems administration, deployment, troubleshooting and resolving day-today issues arising from  applications, software and hardware in lab, office and production environment. Able to multitask, prioritize tasks, and  apply excellent customer service skills. Willing to be trained in any aspect of the job. Work Experience Computer Repair Technician Csat Solutions LP - Houston, TX April 2019 to Present Reviews customers complaint to determine details of equipment problems  Disassembles machines to examine parts, for wear or defects, using hand or power tools and measuring  devices  Conducts diagnosis of problems according to customer complaint  Repairs laptop or desktop units according to requirements, using hand or power tools and measuring  devices  Completes repair ticket (traveler)  Installs and configures new equipment, including operating software or peripheral equipment as required  Maintains repair parts inventories and places order for any additional parts needed for repairs  Reinstalls software programs or adjust settings on existing software to fix machine malfunctions  Compares findings with the customer's reported problem and advises customer call center of failures found  Runs basic tests (mri and e-test)  Learns and uses new processes and procedures for the WUR repair line Systems Engineer Field Nation - Minneapolis, MN July 2017 to March 2019 Daily lab tasks like server imaging, OS installations, Configuring Disk arrays, RAID configurations and handling lab stuff like VLAN, network cables, KVM, security patching  Building virtual machines using Hyper-V, configuring and trouble shooting them  Worked on building cluster environment that provides live migration of VM's using windows server 2008  R2 and NetAPP (SAN Storage)  Worked with installation and configuration of system center tools like SCVMM ( system center virtual  machine manager) and monitoring tools like MOM, SCOM ( system center operations manager).  Provide technical support for internal computer problems and customer problems  Configured and supported inter-office networks and file servers  Configure LAN/WAN hardware of all types including desktops and printers  Installed, configured, managed windows servers, domain controllers, DHCP servers, DNS servers, created  user accounts, groups, group policies, deployed, upgraded software, managed applications, backup and restored data, checked event logs, assigned permissions, managed tasks for disks and volumes, files and  folders management, managed servers remotely, Monitored server performance, security related events, managed network printers.  Analyzed and recommended network configuration as needed. Systems Administrator Alliance Integrated System - Lagos, NG March 2016 to May 2017 Installing and Maintaining Windows 2003, 2008 R2 and 2012 R2 and 2016 R2 Servers in virtual and physical  environment.  Worked on Domain retirement and Server decommissioning projects to clean up the Active Directory.    7520 Cook Rd 1011 Houston, TX, 77072 (832) 672-2626 kenrot83@gmail.com  Migrated Virtual Servers from host to host and host to cluster, installed the security certificates on Servers and Monitoring the System logs on production Servers etc.  Involved and maintenance in WINS, DNS, DHCP and Active Directory services in Windows  2003/2008/2012 R2 and 2016 servers.  Update patches on Servers Working Experience with Active Directory Components (AD Users and Computers, DNS, DHCP and WINS etc.).  I was responsible for creating security groups, service accounts, and privileged accounts (1accounts) in AD.  Helped in auditing Datacenter Inventory in the process of Data center migration.  Worked on AD Cleans up project, to delete the disabled users and servers from the domain  Resolved Problems related to Disk Space Usage. Desktop Support Technician Alliance Integrated System - Lagos, NG February 2013 to February 2016 Analyze network data to determine network usage, disk space availability, or server function.  Configure wide area network (WAN) or local area network (LAN) routers or related equipment.  Install and configure wireless networking equipment  Install new hardware or software systems or components, ensuring integration with existing network  systems.  Test computer software or hardware, using standard diagnostic testing equipment and procedures.  Troubleshoot network or connectivity problems for users or user groups  Analyze and report computer network security breaches or attempted breaches.  Monitor industry websites or publications for information about patches, releases, viruses, or potential  problem identification  Provide telephone support related to networking or connectivity issues.  Train users in procedures related to network applications software or related systems. Education Associate in Information Technology MyComputerCareer.com-Raleigh - Houston, TX January 2019 to July 2019 Bachelor's UNIVERSITY OF ILORIN - Ilorin March 2003 to October 2006 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CCNA, CISCO, CLUSTERING, DNS, MCSA, NETWORKING, TCP/IP, VIRTUALIZATION, DHCP, ROUTER, SWITCHING, TCP, VM, VPN, WINS, CLOUD STORAGE, HYPER-V, SECURITY, COMPTIA Additional Information Windows: Server 2008/2012/2016, VM Migrations, Azure Cloud Services, Active Directory, Data Migration,  ExpressRoute, Power Shell, OMS, Security Center, Intune - SCCM.  Networking: Cisco Router Configuration/Installation, TCP/IP, Ethernet, Firewall, VPN, Wi-fi, Hyper-V,  Virtualization, Cloud storage, Clustering, DHCP, DNS, WINS    CREDENTIALS AND LICENSES  Microsoft MCSE: Cloud Platform and Infrastructure  Microsoft MCSA: Windows Server 2012  Microsoft MTA: Security Fundamentals  CompTIA: A+  CompTIA: Network+  CompTIA: Server+  Cisco: (CCNA Routing and Switching)  Linux Academy: Linux Essential