DevOps Engineer DevOps Engineer DevOps Engineer - WESTAT Rockville, MD • Over 7+ years of professional experience in IT industry, with over 4 years of experience in DevOps and AWS and 3 years as a System Administrator.  • Experience with Subversion control, Build, Configuration Management tools like GIT, ANT, MAVEN, CHEF, PUPPET, DOCKER, ANSIBLE and Integration & Monitoring tools like JENKINS and NGINX, UNIX, LINUX and Windows environment.  • Experience with an in-depth level of understanding in the strategy and practical implementation of AWS Cloud-Specific technologies including Virtual Private Cloud, EC2, EBS, AMI, RDS, S3, Route53, IAM, SNS, SQS, ELB, EMR, ECS, Cloud Formation, Cloud Front, Cloud Trail, Elastic Cache, Cloud Watch, RedShift, Lambda, Dynamo DB  • Experience in installation, configuration, backup, recovery, maintenance, support of Linux and Solaris, Administration of Windows, Red Hat Linux, Cent OS and VMware Environments.  • Install and manage Middleware tools through Chef such as WebSphere Application Server 7.x/8.x, JBOSS GA7/EAP6, IBM IHS, Apache & Tomcat.  • Experience with Chef Enterprise hosted as well as On-Premise, installed Workstation, Bootstrapped Nodes, wrote Recipes and Cookbooks and uploaded them to Chef-server, managed On-site applications/Services/Packages using Chef as well as AWS for EC2/S3/Route53 & ELB with Chef Cookbooks.  • Deploy Puppet, Puppet Dashboard and Puppet DB for configuration management to existing infrastructure. Create Ansible roles and playbooks and Puppet Modules to configure, deploy and maintain software components of the existing/new infrastructure.  • Configure Jenkins to build CI/CD pipeline which includes to trigger auto builds, auto promote builds from one environment to another, code analysis, auto version etc. for various projects.  • Proficiency in writing automation scripts using Shell, Power Shell, Ruby, JSON, Python to support infrastructure as code and continuous deployment.  • Extensively used Docker for virtualization, Ship, Run and Deploy the application securely for fasten the build/Release Engineering.  • Collaborate with development support teams to setup a continuous delivery environment with the use of build platform tool Docker and virtualize the servers on AWS using the Docker; create the Docker files and version control.  • Extensive experience in using version control systems includes Subversion (SVN), GIT and build management tools Ant and Maven.  • Responsible for ensuring Systems and Network Security, maintaining performance and setting up monitoring using Cloud Watch and Nagios.  • Manage Linux and Windows virtual servers on EC2 using Chef Server and familiar with Cloud watch, Elastic IP's and managing security groups for EC2 servers. Hands on experience with the AWS CLI and SDKs/API tools.  • Expertise to automate the code Integration and deployment also use Elastic Beanstalk, Lambda, CodeCommit, CodeDeploy, CodePipeline, CloudFormation, OpsWorks.  • Expertise in architecting and deploying of fault tolerant, cost effective, highly available and secure servers in AWS.  • Use EC2, auto-scaling and VPC to build secure, highly scalable and flexible systems that handled expected and unexpected load bursts.  • Use Simple storage services (S3) for snapshot and Configured S3 lifecycle of Applications logs, including deleting old logs, archiving logs based on retention policy of Apps.  • Create customized AMIs based on already existing AWS EC2 instances by using create image functionality, hence using this snapshot for disaster recovery. Create AWS Launch configurations based on customized AMI and use this launch configuration to configure auto scaling groups.  • Manage Amazon Redshift clusters such as launching the cluster and specifying the node type  • Expertise in querying RDBMS such as Oracle, MY SQL and SQL Server by using SQL for data integrity.  • Knowledge of using Routed Protocols: FTP, SFTP, SSH, HTTP, HTTPS and Connect direct.  • Develop cloud solutions using IaaS (Infrastructure as a Service) and PaaS (Platform as a Service). Collaborate with application owners, IT operations and cloud providers to translate business and functional requirements into infrastructure solutions.  • Experience in building and deploying J2EE applications and troubleshooting the build and deploy failures.  • Knowledge about Microsoft Azure in creating cloud environment and managing the application servers across Microsoft managed global data cent.  • Experience in all phases of the software development life-cycle (SDLC) with specific focus on the build and release of quality software. Experience in Waterfall, Agile/Scrum Development.  • Use VMware VSphere, VCenter to create VMs managed these VMs on various ESX hosts.  • Coordinate different teams across the globe to deploy different builds to different environments on parallel development for multiple projects. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience DevOps Engineer WESTAT - Rockville, MD October 2018 to Present Description: Westat is an employee-owned statistical survey research corporation and provide research services to agencies of the U.S. Government, as well as businesses, foundations, and state and local governments. Design and deploy the data of agencies using EC2, S3, EBS, Elastic Load balancer (ELB), auto scaling groups.  Responsibilities  • Experience in designing and deploying AWS Solutions using EC2, S3, EBS, Elastic Load balancer (ELB), auto scaling groups.  • Shell script for configuration of IP, hostname and silent installation of chef client on the different environments.  • Migrate the current Linux environment to AWS /RHEL Linux environment and used auto scaling feature and Involved in Remediation and patching of Unix/Linux Servers.  • To automate our build/deployment process and do an overall process improvement to any manual processes automation process, we have created the recipes in run list for the chef nodes to configure the Application Server, Web Server etc.  • Hands on experience on Docker hub, Docker Engine, Hub, Machine, Compose and Docker Registry. Create Docker images and handling multiple images primarily for middleware installations and domain configuration.  • Loging Server Remotly using NGINX proxy server. To achieve Continuous Delivery goal on high scalable environment, used Docker coupled with load-balancing tool Nginx.  • Deploy Puppet, puppet dashboard and Puppet DB for configuration management to existing infrastructure.  • Experience with working on Puppet Master and Puppet Agents. Defined Puppet Master and Puppet Agents to manage and configure nodes.  • Carried deployments and builds on various environments using continuous integration tool Jenkins and design the project workflows/pipelines using Jenkins as CI tool.  • Wrote Ansible playbooks to launch AWS instances and used Ansible to manage web applications, configuration files, used mount points and packages. Deploy and configure Git repositories with branching, forks, tagging, and notifications. Experience and proficient in deploying and administering GitHub.  • Create custom sized VPC, subnets, involve in creating a public and private subnet, a route, and an Internet gateway for public subnet.  • Run Java code on a high-availability compute infrastructure and performs all the administration of the compute resources, including server and operating system maintenance, capacity provisioning and automatic scaling, code monitoring and logging using Lambda.  • Handle the details of capacity provisioning, load balancing, scaling, and application health monitoring using Elastic Beanstalk.  • Implement auditing and logging for the Redshift and RDS DB engine as per IAPP requirement.  • Use CloudFront to set alarms for notification or automated actions; and to monitor logs for a better understanding and operation of the system.  • Configure and manage AWS Glacier, to move old data to archives based on retention policy of databases/ applications (AWS Glacier Vaults).  • Maintain the user accounts (IAM), RDS, Route 53, SES and SNS services in AWS cloud.  • Create and manage S3 buckets; Enable logging in S3 bucket to track the request that is accessing the data and enable versioning in S3 bucket and restore the deleted file.  • Configure Elastic Load balancer (ELB) including high availability of ELB using various subnets in various availability zones, configured security settings and health check for application.  • Accelerate log and data feed intake, processing the data and data analytics using Kinesis.  Environment: AWS, S3, EBS, Elastic Load balancer (ELB), Auto Scaling groups, VPC, IAM, Cloud Watch, Glacier, bash scripts, PHP script, Linux environment, chef, Puppet, Docker, Jenkins. AWS Operation Engineer State Street Corporation - Boston, MA March 2016 to August 2018 Description: State Street Corporation is a financial service holding company. Design high availability financial services with less cost effective using EC2 instances, Auto Scaling, Elastic Load Balancer, S3 and AMIs.  Responsibilities  • Design highly available, cost effective and fault tolerant systems using multiple EC2 instances, Auto Scaling, Elastic Load Balancer and AMIs.  • Define AWS Security Groups which acted as virtual firewalls that controlled the traffic allowed to reach one or more AWS EC2 instances.  • Use Chef for provisioning the infrastructure and also wrote chef cookbooks and recipes to provision several pre-production environments.  • Coordinate/assist developers with establishing and applying appropriate branching, labeling/naming Designing and implementing for fully automated server build management, monitoring and deployment By Using DevOps Technologies like Chef, Puppet.  • Knowledge of puppet as Configuration management tool, to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploy critical applications, and proactively manage change.  • Manage Amazon Redshift clusters such as launching the cluster and specifying the node type.  • Use AWS Beanstalk for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Java, PHP, Node.js, Python, Ruby, Go and Docker on familiar servers such as Apache.  • Create Puppet manifests and modules to automate system operations. Created monitors, alarms and notifications for EC2 hosts using CloudWatch.  • Execute user administration and maintenance tasks including creating users and groups, reports and queries. Expert in user management and plugin management for Jenkins.  • Configure and managing daily and hourly scheduled snapshots backup and restore the data.  • Utilize Nagios based Open Source monitoring tools to monitor Linux Cluster nodes configured using Red Hat Cluster Suite.  • Work on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle. Worked on various Docker components like Docker Engine, Hub, Machine, Compose and Docker Registry.  • Experience involving configuring S3 versioning and lifecycle policies to and backup files.  • Provide policies to groups using policy generator and set different permissions based on the requirement along with providing ARN (Amazon Resource Name).  • Design roles and groups for users and resources using AWS Identity Access Management (IAM) and managed network security using Security Groups, and IAM.  Environment: AWS, Windows 2003/2008, Windows XP/Vista/Win 7, Remote desktop services, Linux, apache, CloudWatch, Chef, Puppet, Ansible, Ant, Maven, Jenkins, Nagios. AWS Engineer 24 Hour Fitness - Carlsbad, CA November 2014 to January 2016 Description: 24 Hour Fitness is the gym for meeting personalized fitness goals. Track the performance of individuals and ensure that application is designed properly.  Responsibilities  • Work with application development teams to ensure that their applications are designed properly for interacting with AWS.  • Hands on experience in EC2, VPC, Subnets, Routing tables, Internet gateways, IAM, Route 53, VPC peering, S3, ELB, RDS, Security Groups, Cloud Watch, SNS on AWS.  • Attach Elastic IPs to Amazon EC2 Instances to Provide Static Internet Addresses and create AMI images of critical EC2 instances as backup.  • Maintain and administrate GIT source code tool and create branches, labels and performed merges in GIT and implement and maintain the branching and build/release strategies utilizing Subversion in Linux.  • Experience working with Chef Enterprise and Chef Open Source. Install, configure, upgrade and manage Chef Master, Agents & Databases.  • Maintain Jenkins continuous integration infrastructure and automated releases to DEV/TEST/STG/PROD environments.  • Configure, monitor and distribute on multi-platform servers using Puppet. Define Puppet server and workstation to manage and configure nodes.  • Virtualize the servers using the Docker for the test environments and dev-environments needs. and configuration automation using Docker containers.  Environment: AWS, bash script, AWS Linux AMI, Chef, Puppet, Jenkins. System Administrator Business Intelli Solutions Inc - Dallas, TX February 2012 to September 2014 Description: Business Intelli Solutions is a provider of high quality information technology services. Involve in IT-Support team that offers mission critical services for all Software, Hardware team.  Responsibilities  • Install software, patching, upgrading and maintenance of OS and server hardware components as per requirement.  • Troubleshoot Windows 2003 Servers and streamlining the user policies. Managing user accounts using Active Directory.  • Perform daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware, server resources, systems and key processes, reviewing system and application logs, and verifying completion of scheduled jobs such as backups.  • Answering and responding to all calls and requests within agreed time scales.  • Keep customers updated as to progress and update support documentation.  • Install and configure Apache, Tomcat to provide troubleshooting and configuration support for client desktop and networking environment.  • Develop Unix Shell scripts with embedded SQL*Loader calls and PL/SQL statements to extract data from the existing application in the form of flat files and load the extracted data into the new proposed application, as a part of migration.  • Configuration and Administration users and group management.  Environment: Windows, Red Hat Linux, Apache, Putty storage Linux Systems Administrator Raminfo Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2011 to December 2012 Description: Raminfo provide IT solutions to Government, Public sector, banks and enterprises. Work with administration of Red Hat Linux.  Responsibilities  • To manage the day-to-day tasks, operation and problem-solving of a team to meet with the required service level Agreements and standard.  • Installation of VMware ESX 3.5 and administration of VMs.  • Patches and Package administration for installation of patches following company policy.  • Take care of 1500+ Linux Servers in critical production environment with 24/7 support running in-house applications, web services and databases.  • Coordination with datacenter support teams to perform hardware upgrades (Addition of CPU, Memory and PCI cards).  • Regular performance tuning after installing/ upgrading / deployment of patches and proactive monitoring to maintain a good database server.  • Work on the configuration of server using monitoring tool like Nagios.  • Installation and management on Linux servers for applications like Apache and Tomcat.  Environment: Windows 2007, 2008, Linux Red Hat4.0/5.0, HTTP, Apache, Tomcat. Education Bachelors of Technology in Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills APACHE, LINUX, RED HAT, SOLARIS, SUN, C++, DOCKER, Git, JENKINS, JSON, PERL, PHP, PYTHON, Ruby, SCRIPTING, SVN, CHEF, DNS, NAGIOS, NETWORKING, AWS, S3, EBS, Elastic Load balancer (ELB), Auto Scaling groups, VPC, IAM, Cloud Watch, Glacier, bash scripts, PHP script, Linux environment, chef, Puppet, Docker, Jenkins. (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Cloud AWS, Azure  Configuration Management Chef, Puppet, Ansible  Continuous Integration Jenkins, Bamboo, Hudson  Build Tools Ant, Maven  Version control tools GIT, SVN, ClearCase  Networking Tools DNS, Route53, FTP, HTTP, HTTPS, TCP  Web Server Apache, Tomcat, WebSphere, JBoss  Operating System Linux, Red Hat Linux, Windows XP/2007, Sun Solaris 8/9/10/11, Windows Server 2000, 2003,2008 and 2012, Ubuntu, Centos  Programming Languages Java, C, C++, PHP, SQL  Scripting Language Bash, JSON, Python, Ruby, Shell, Perl,  Database Oracle, DB2, SQL, Mongo DB, Amazon Aurora, PostgreSQL, Maria DB  Monitoring CloudWatch, Nagios  Virtualization VMware, Docker  Methodologies Agile, Scrum, Waterfall, Kanban, JIRA  Platforms Ubuntu, Red Hat LINUX, Windows XP/ 7/ 8/10, RHEL, CENT OS