Site Lead Engineer Site Lead Engineer Site Lead Engineer - Global Technology Solutions San Jose, CA Work Experience Site Lead Engineer Global Technology Solutions - Sunnyvale, CA November 2016 to Present HQ), San Francisco, Carpentaria    Become the face of IT, while being a part of an awesome team, learning all emerging technologies and facets, whilst working with grouped various teams and departments within LinkedIn Headquarters Division.    Lead and Manage 4 In house Tech Lounge Locations, including San Francisco, and Carpentaria. Work within the Enterprise Productivity Engineering Division and Manage Tech Lounges for Regional IT.    Provide Superior Customer Service & Support to all User Levels within LinkedIn HQ, and worldwide offices.    Administrator for the following software programs:  Okta Symantec Active Directory Google Apps & Services Office 365 Airwatch/Hub    Understand and provide in-depth expertise, systems support, end-user administration, and training to all levels at LinkedIn. Assist and support new hire orientation to incoming staff.  Provide full support both in software & hardware channels for all levels of OS and provide SME Expertise on:  MAC Windows 10 Linux    Provide all levels of mobile device management to various devices and become an SME on:  Phone Android Tablets PC MAC.    Provide 2FA/MFA Assistance on both Symantec and Microsoft Platforms.    Image, Manage and push applications using Ivanti and Manage Macs using JAMF/DEP Enrollment while troubleshooting various PC, MAC and Linux issues. Remediate Filevault and Bitlocker issues, and Asset Management through LinkedIn Internal databases. Create and Manage Reports using Service Now.    Test, create and manage LinkedIn internal wiki's, Update Knowledge Bases, create how-to articles and provide User Education. Provide Training, Leadership and mentorship to all staff.    Be part of both an amazing group, at an amazing company, doing amazing things  ***Promoted to Site Lead Engineer after 1 year of employment***  Letter of recommendation available upon request  Samsung Electronics  Apple Engineer/Tier 2 Service Desk Lead at Samsung Research America Lead Teams Apple/Mac System Architecture for Samsung Research America, & Worldwide Division - Mountain View, CA February 2015 to August 2016 Mountain View, CA  Manage, Design Implement and maintain the entire Apple/Mac System Architecture for Samsung Research America, & Worldwide Division including Headquarters.  Provide Lead & Supervisor Experience for dedicated groups within IT Role.  Develop and maintain Apple Infrastructure and Mac Images for all Samsung Employees both Contractor and Full time. Configure Apple Components, Devices, Systems Images, Peripherals, and Deployment Servers. Create, Configure and maintain Mac Repository for both ServiceDesk, and Samsung Employees. Update and Manage repositories and work with an awesome team of people. Set company standards and automate processes for R&D Division. Lead Teams, and provide user education and how-to articles and training of staff.    Configure, Manage, Setup and Deploy Custom Images using Server 5, Create Certificates and work closely with Network Engineering to determine new objectives and streamline operations.  Remotely Manage Apple Desktop and Laptop Computers utilizing Apple Remote Desktop. Install software and configure updates and patches. Maintain Software compliance, SCCM and Secure Doc Encryption Installs for both Mac and Windows Environment. Created dedicated packages and upload and deploy using SCCM.  Provide Mac Expertise for all facets of Service Desk, both Levels I and II. Assist with Asset Management and Deployment Compliance for IT Security.  Report directly to Directors & IT Management, Supervise and provide direction for various teams within IT Division. Take on special projects, complete deadlines and assist with Audit compliance for entire Environment. Manage, maintain and assist all labs in all avenues of day to day operations.  ***Appreciation Award directly from Senior IT Director for compliance standards and work excellence*** Sr Systems Administrator/IT & Desktop Support Tintri Inc - Mountain View, CA December 2013 to February 2015 HQ)  Provide full IT & Desktop Support for leading VM Aware Cloud Storage Company    Install, deploy, image, implement and provide new user PC and MAC workstations. Create and add users to Active Directory 2012. Provide support for Engineering, Finance, CEO's and HR. Rack & Stack Server buildout configurations for VM Lab and out of box setup. Provide VM assistance LAN, WAN and VPN setup. Provide Cisco and Juniper Switch installs with default setup. Install updates, patches and upgrades for workstations and servers at Tintri. Provide Remote support to users locally and overseas. Provide specialized LDAP configuration for Mac users, and calendar sharing via resource mailboxes. Be the face of IT for the entire company. Create scripts for general automation in Powershell 3.0 and Work with Microsoft Exchange Server 2012.    Systems Administration for:  Shortel VOIP WebEx User Access and Grouping in AD VLAN configurations Airwatch    Create conference bridges for all Tintri Users. Manage company inventory, company directory, Administer Users in Active Directory. Schedule, present and give incoming new hire orientation and training. Provide badging and building access for users. Manage Helpdesk SLA's and respond to all requests. Provide fast response times for ticketing, and for customers awaiting support.  * Letter of Recommendation from Management and peers available *  Top Skills  Sever Configuration, DNS, Net Install, Net Restore, NetBoot, System Image Utility, Desktop Support, Remote User Support, Apple Remote Desktop, SCCM, SAAS, Imaging, User Access Control, Site Management, Leadership, Providing Direction, Troubleshooting, Software Configuration, VPN Configurations, TCP/IP, Static IP, WINS, End User Support, Software & Hardware Troubleshooting, Mobile Device Management, Web Marketing, Computer Science, ITIL, Social Media Advertisement, Live video streaming, Software Upgrades, Audio Video Installations, Firewall Configurations    Overall experience exceeds +15 years. Will provide additional positions upon request Education Associate in Computer Science Santa Clara University Skills Mac OS X (10+ years), PC (10+ years), Customer Service (10+ years), CRM (10+ years) Additional Information Sever Configuration, DNS, Net Install, Net Restore, NetBoot, System Image Utility, Desktop Support, Remote User Support, Apple Remote Desktop, SCCM, SAAS, Imaging, User Access Control, Site Management, Leadership, Providing Direction, Troubleshooting, Software Configuration, VPN Configurations, TCP/IP, Static IP, WINS, End User Support, Software & Hardware Troubleshooting, Mobile Device Management, Web Marketing, Computer Science, ITIL, Social Media Advertisement, Live video streaming, Software Upgrades, Audio Video Installations, Firewall Configurations