Linux Systems Administrator Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Linux Systems Administrator - AAA Washington, DC Linux System Administrator with 5+ years of progressive experience in wide variety of professional system support and solution-based IT services for Linux Systems including, monitoring, configuration, troubleshooting and maintenance of operating systems. Work Experience Linux Systems Administrator AAA - Washington, DC November 2017 to Present • Provide monitoring for both hardware and software needs, including system monitoring, problem diagnosis, backups, account, permission maintenance, mailflow, traffic analysis, team response and escalation.  • Administer and troubleshoot virtual machines  • Direct all configurations, process automation for patches, file changes, software installation/removal and other routine processes.  • Responsible for scheduling, monitoring, and implementing patching  • Documentation of solutions and fixes on SharePoint  • Disk Management- added and partioned hard disk  • Perform backup duties related to regular system maintenance procedures, including performing system re-boot, running rdclean, truncating system log files.  • Troubleshot network connectivity issues  • Administer system access controls by creating and managing user and group accounts, network access configuration, passwords, permissions and storage quotas. Junior Linux Administrator State Farm Insurance - Washington, DC June 2014 to November 2017 • Managed resource usage, troubleshooting routine automated maintenance and system backup processes.  • Installed and apply Barracuda, Solarwinds, and Nagios patches.  • Executed system-related operations, including off-hour maintenance as required.  • Maintained existing programs/scripts and extended Linux system functionality as needed.  • Assisted in updating existing Linux systems to meet business demands.  • Acquire permission from stakeholders to change and/or fix their systems. IT Help Desk Technician The Select Group - Alexandria, VA June 2013 to June 2014 • Provided tier 1 support to end users.  • Assisted in on boarding of new users providing hardware and peripheral equipment.  • Performed inventory checks of all the physical equipment and maintain master lists of rental equipment  • Provided initial trouble shooting support for desktop, laptop and printers.  • Performed administrative duties including account creation, password resets, and granting access to files and folders in accordance to security guidelines.  • Participated in on-call rotation to provide operational support to clients. Education Bachelor of Arts in Communications in Communications Neumann University May 2013 Skills AIX (4 years), Apache (4 years), Configuration Management (Less than 1 year), DHCP (5 years), DNS (4 years), Linux (5 years), Netbackup (4 years), Network Troubleshooting (5 years), Red Hat (5 years), sendmail (5 years), Solaris (4 years), Sun (4 years), Systems Programming (3 years), Tomcat (4 years), UNIX (4 years), VERITAS (4 years), VERITAS VOLUME MANAGER (5 years), VMware (5 years), Linux Administrator (5 years), Redhat, System Administrator