IT Support Specialist II IT Support Specialist II IT Support Specialist II - Iridium communications, Inc Ashburn, VA Technical Support Specialist with over 13 years experience performing technical support on both Apple and Microsoft platforms. I have experience installing, configuring and troubleshooting client, server and cloud applications as well as hardware from tier one to tier three. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Support Specialist II Iridium Communications, Inc - Leesburg, VA June 2017 to Present Administer, support and maintain desktops, laptops, mobile devices, peripherals and all associated operating systems and applications for all users in a multi-site corporate environment. Perform employee on-boarding IT functions for new employees and contractors including setting up user accounts and computer logins, establishing email addresses, phone system logins/pin numbers, and distributing computer, cell phone and other equipment. Perform employee off boarding IT functions which include the collection of equipment and deprovisioning of computer/security access. Work service requests and help desk tickets on a daily basis. Provide metrics and reporting as directed. Maintain existing IT monitoring systems. Take corrective action; provide root cause analysis and suggest improvements. Maintain appropriate tools to assist in the execution of duties Maintain appropriate and current documentation. Suggest improvements and seek additional training to maintain skills necessary to execute duties. Other duties may be assigned by management Senior Service Desk Analyst Forcepoint, LLC - Herndon, VA July 2017 to June 2018 Served as team lead for group of 3 users for Forcepoint Federal Helpdesk. Analyzed and resolved problems in accordance with service level agreements, escalating when necessary. Provided IT support for the users worldwide utilizing Salesforce.com to manage support requests. Provided troubleshooting and configuration support for client workstations, mobile devices and VoIP systems. Interacted via telephone, e-mail and one on one with customers to perform diagnostics and resolve technical problems. Created server and system level accounts for new hires to include, Active Directory (AD), Exchange, Lync/ Skype for Business and various 3rd party accounts cloud accounts. Activated Major Incident Management Ticket (MIMT) procedures for global outages, work with various I.T. teams to investigate MIMTs’ and keep customers informed of progress and resolution. Liaised with Global IT Support worldwide to propose and implement best practices. Documented procedures, corrective actions, and update knowledge base system. Stayed up-to-date with both technical and interpersonal training to ensure sharp knowledge and skill set. Provided efficient tracking of IT Inventory. After hours support for Forcepoint enterprise when necessary. LAN Administrator II CACI, Inc - Chantilly, VA August 2016 to February 2017 Performed software and application installations and upgrades using Microsoft SCCM. Diagnosed and repaired systems and applications to identify and correct malfunctions and other operational difficulties. Installed and repaired desktop and laptop hardware, maintained network printers and scanners. Supported mobile devices such as iPads and iPhones. Investigated basic user problems, identified their source, determined possible solutions, tested and implemented solutions. Maintained confidentiality with regards to the information being processed, stored or accessed by the network. Documented technical problems and resolutions for future reference into CACI's Cherwell trouble-ticketing system and Sharepoint sites. Worked with other IT professionals as directed to coordinate efforts, resolve cross-team issues, and communicate changes. Information Systems Specialist Marine Spill Response Corporation - Herndon, VA November 2010 to April 2016 Primary function was to provide technical support for corporate office as well as provide level 2 and 3 support for regional IT staff totaling 500 end-users troubleshooting Apple OS 10.7 – 10.11 and Microsoft Windows 7. Installed, operated, and maintained computer hardware and software including Apple and Dell laptops, desktops and servers, Microsoft Office 2008-2013, Exchange 365, local and online backup services and Symantec End Point Protection anti-virus software. Created all new employee Active Directory (AD) accounts and managed terminated employee accounts. Performed quarterly tests of MSRC’s local and cloud-based backups systems. Maintained inventory control of MSRC owned equipment, documented new policy procedures and disseminated information through MSRC wiki pages and / or PDFs. Managed all incoming support tickets using ZenDesk trouble ticketing system. Documented all support issues that originated from various means (e.g. walk-ins, texts and phone calls) and if necessary, escalated support tickets to the MSRC Systems Engineer. During emergency communications operations, back-filled IT positions at the regional sites and/or assisted at response sites with the set up and operation of emergency communication systems to include, satellite systems, establishing and maintaining voice and data circuits, installing and maintaining computer and telephone networks, and establishing and operating radio networks. Participated in annual “brown bag” training lunches for local users regarding new technologies as well as one- on-one instruction with end-users during technical support desk visits. Education A.A.S. in Information Technology Northern Virginia Community College 2003 to 2005 Skills BMC (Less than 1 year), Enterprise backup (Less than 1 year), Imaging (Less than 1 year), Mac (Less than 1 year), Mac OS (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Office (5 years), Microsoft Windows (5 years), MS OFFICE (5 years), Remedy (Less than 1 year), Service Desk (Less than 1 year) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/rolandomello Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified Present Network + Present Additional Information Skills & Expertise:    Active & Open Directory  Microsoft Server 2008 - 2012  Microsoft Windows OS 10 and Apple Mac OS X  Microsoft Office 2013 - O365  Enterprise backup procedures using cloud-based and on-prem based software.  Imaging procedures using various software packages such as SCCM and Big Fix Remote administration and troubleshooting using, SCCM, Apple Remote Desktop, Zoom, GoToAssist, etc.   Familiar with various trouble-ticketing systems such as Remedy, Cherwell, BMC Service Desk Express and Service Now