Information Systems Consultant Information <span class="hl">Systems</span> Consultant Information Systems Consultant - United Regional Health Care System Geronimo, OK Work Experience Information Systems Consultant United Regional Health Care System - Wichita Falls, TX August 2019 to Present Performing a 3 month contract to configure, install and troubleshoot PCs, peripherals and network in new construction System and Network Administrator Jim Koons Management Company - Vienna, VA September 2015 to April 2019 Provided support for upwards of 2,500 users and 2,000 PCs  ? Performed vulnerability assessments on 23 car dealerships using Kali Linux  ? Built and maintained multiple log analytic servers running Ubuntu Linux  ? Personally managed six new and used car dealerships (Toyota (2), Chevrolet (2), Ford, and Mercedes- Benz)  ? Managed learning and teaching team members in the use of new technologies  ? Configured and maintained firewalls, routers, switches and network connected devices to be  deployed throughout the company's environment  ? Incorporated Raspberry Pi 3B+ devices for remote management devices  ? Facilitated CyberSecurity regarding email hacks and ransomware attacks  ? Isolated infected PCs  ? Located and obtained decryptor key  ? Recovered vital data and documents Lead IT Help Desk Technician Symphony Solutions - Cockeysville, MD September 2014 to September 2015 Am Assistant Manager for a team of 6, and act as liaison with LifeBridge Health IT Systems  ? Configured 1500+ PCs and All In One Computers throughout Sinai, Levendale, and Northwest  hospitals  o Reimaged systems and manipulated active directory as necessary  o Installed appropriate drivers, software, and peripherals  o Deployed PCs (backing up files, tweaking configurations to user preferences, and fielding/addressing  complaints)  o Configure and troubleshot printers as necessary  o Removed used hard drives for destruction  o Assisted LifeBridge IT Department when necessary Client Service Coordinator BusinessSuites - Columbia, MD 2009 to 2013 Began as a part time receptionist responsible for client switchboard operations for up to 60 client  companies  ? Evolved from a primarily customer service role to a technical support role supporting all offices in the region  while providing technical training to other Client Service Coordinators using TeamViewer  ? Liaison between clients and technical service companies, including after hours and weekend  ? Maintained networks for clients and local centers using various brands of switches such as Linksys  and Cisco  ? Coordinated physical firewall maintenance with independent contractor  ? Built client trust by researching solutions to prevent the loss of key accounts Education High school or equivalent Centennial High School - Ellicott City, MD August 2000 to May 2004 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Computer operations, Firewalls, Networking, Tcp/ip, Tcp, Vmware, Vpn, Linux, Internet explorer, Technical support, Mozilla, Netscape, Security, Bios, Ftp, Comptia, Android, Ios Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vjnmn-ie2sh-jmjh Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/2mdaueot2-swpwfa Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Familiar June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/zelvcksw1z2sp-js Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.