Datacenter Systems Administrator (consultant) Datacenter <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (consultant) Datacenter Systems Administrator (consultant) - Biotronik Portland, OR Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Datacenter Systems Administrator (consultant) Biotronik - Portland, OR September 2017 to Present Employed Datacenter Administrator (consultant) Southern Company - Birmingham, AL October 2015 to July 2017 relocated to Oregon)    Management of two data centers located in Birmingham, AL. Infrastructure, network, security, life cycle management. Plan and oversee upkeep and upgrades of systems in the data center. Work along systems admins, network security engineers, electrical engineers to maintain critical systems. Monitor and report capacity and lifecycle of systems in datacenter. Assist network and systems engineers, troubleshoot RHEL, ESXi hosts, Cisco switches, Dell/EMC SAN systems, security appliances, IBM legacy equipment, KVM and remote access devices. Veritas backup executive systems owner and administrator SAN and HA 2016 to 2016 cluster deployments. Network and systems optimization, troubleshooting, monitoring, scheduled backups, hardware maintenance. Monitoring and deployment of VMs and resources. Troubleshooting tickets related to hardware, network, backups, etc. Deployment of Cisco/Meraki/HP network equipment. Deployment of VoIP systems. Use of Splunk, Solarwinds, and various in-house tools to monitor datacenter level systems. Veritas backup executive systems owner and administrator. Working knowledge of various other storage software including IBM TSM, Acronis, Symantec. Responsible for integrity and retention KPIs. Data Center Tech II (consultant) AFL Global - Birmingham, AL February 2015 to October 2015 Lead technician for 4 others of a 250k sq. ft. banking datacenter. Responsible for daily troubleshooting tickets of all server, network, security, storage, and communications equipment. Daily activities Dell servers, Cisco network and security equipment, F5 network equipment, running and troubleshooting fiber trunking, working with vendors to install and maintain data center level IT systems. Field Manager/Lead Tech One Ring Networks - Atlanta, GA April 2014 to February 2015 Business-Class Wireless ISP headquartered in Atlanta. Responsible for installation, maintenance, and troubleshooting of network equipment including microwave radios, routers, switches, firewalls, IP phones, AP's including wireless, and many other end user devices. Planning and deployment of infrastructure on cell towers. Managing and assisting field techs, On-Call support, dispatching techs to troubleshoot. Network Technician II Goodman Networks - Atlanta, GA November 2012 to April 2014 LTE, GSM, UMTS bands deployments across the Southeast. Installation, optimization, and troubleshooting of cellular equipment and technologies for AT&T, T-Mobile, Sprint. Installation and configuration of carrier grade microwave radios. Carrier grade network deployments. Battery backup systems installations. Extensive experience with cut-over and tiger team work. Education Some college Skills CISCO (3 years), SECURITY (2 years), OPTIMIZATION (2 years), MICROWAVE (2 years), DEPLOYMENT (1 year), Vmware (3 years), Autocad (3 years), System Administrator, Linux, Active Directory, System Admin, Linux Administrator Additional Information PROFESSIONAL SKILLS  Knowledge in Cisco networking including troubleshooting, configuring, and monitoring. Using tools such as Solarwinds, Zenoss, BMC ADDM, and several in-house tools.  VMWare tools, ESXi, VSphere, Microsoft Hyper-V networking and storage tools.    Veritas Backup exec administration, troubleshooting, maintenance.  Experience with wireless spectrum analysis, RF/Microwave/LTE/GSM/UMTS including planning, deployment, troubleshooting and optimization.  Ethernet and fiber channel deployment experience across an enterprise datacenter environment.  SAN deployments and lifecycle management.  Windows and Linux systems management experience including deployment and hardware break-fix, capacity and lifecycle management.    Basic webdev experience, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP    Security appliance systems lifecycle management.  Experience in several diverse fields and management roles.