Systems Migration and Deployment Technician <span class="hl">Systems</span> Migration and Deployment Technician Oak Park, MI Work Experience Systems Migration and Deployment Technician Farmington Hills, MI January 2019 to Present Contribution  • Testing, and implementing SCCM-based Windows 10 Images to end-user systems throughout client sites in North America.  • Strong customer Service, project planning, and general collaboration skills, along with networked systems trouble-shooting skills are exercised daily in trouble-shooting, and administering client systems upgrades. This involves utilizing knowledge in DNS, Active Directory, DHCP, Group Policy, SCCM, Office365, and general client-server network connectivity trouble-shooting. Server Administrator Tech Delta Dental - Lansing, MI February 2018 to July 2018 Contribution  • This job requires strong technical acumen specific to MS Windows Server operating systems in an enterprise environment supporting over 400 servers. Operating systems supported include Windows Server 2008, 2012R2, and 2016.  • Active Directory administration, planning and application testing, and knowledge of DNS administration is practiced, as well, along with Tier 1 / Tier 2 Office365 support, and SolarWinds N-Central for monitoring.  • Frequent racking, and cabling of servers during swing shift (I prefer day time work) data center environment, and administration of VMs using VMWare 6.5 vSphere console. Support Specialist Technician NuVasive Inc - Ann Arbor, MI April 2017 to July 2017 Contribution  • First month involved supporting relocation duties which were mainly going through each desk area, and gather all I.T. related hardware. I then update the company inventory, check for warranties on HP and Dell printers, laptops and desktop systems, which was followed up with organizing the remaining systems to be relocated to the new office.  • Setup and imaging of laptops; DISM, and WDS is used for imaging, created Windows 10 image.  • Desktop Support (basic Mac support, but mainly Windows 10) and Basic Networking trouble-shooting concepts are needed to resolve client systems incidences / tickets (ConnectWise for ticket mgmt.); involves administration of Office 365 groups and accounts, Printer Administration, SharePoint, Cisco AnyConnect VPN, and phone support for email setup, along with end-user training and onboarding.  • vSphere 6.5 Server Administration of Windows 2003, 2008, and 2012R2 Active Directory, and DNS support, along with general Tier1 Azure / Office 365 Administration, which involves security and distribution group maintenance, permissions, creating accounts and DNS records.  • Administration duties also involve backup maintenance, NAS support, Barracuda spam filter, some firewall, and switch management regarding forwarding, and port security, along with basic security camera administration NOC Admin / Server Administrator American Axle Mfg - Southfield, MI August 2016 to December 2016 Contribution  • Setup and configure Orion monitoring for performance alerts / monitoring.  • vSphere 5.5 for administering virtual hosts running Windows 2k3, 2k8, and 2012  • There is some Tier I exposure to clustering, load balancing, Linux servers, and networking devices, but here this is only for when triaging alerts, gauging the severity of the issue in relation to Service Level Agreements w/clients and department, and for contributing to root cause analysis for Break-fix trouble-shooting. ServiceNow Service Desk ticketing system.  • Active Directory, and DNS support involves security and distribution group administration, permissions, creating accounts and host A records, and for using simple novice powershell scripts when gathering data. Systems Administrator Magna Seating - Strongsville, OH May 2016 to June 2016 Contribution  This role is a hands-on Help Desk role for a manufacturing plant that has a 20-node Windows 7 end user network w/Win2k8 backend, TCP/IP networked, in a building adjacent to the manufacturing plant:  • Provide helpdesk services for all systems within the position's scope, including updating some internal wiki, and how-to documentation.  • Execute data and system backups.  • Install hardware and software for upgrades, and onboarding.  • Interface with vendors for data processing services and products.  • Desktop and phone support with corporate IT to remedy problems.  • Ensure compliance with Sarbanes Oxley IT requirements Server Analyst / NOC Admin Denver Health - Denver, CO September 2015 to January 2016 Contribution  • Windows 2003/2008/2012 Break-fix analysis support role for the data center of a major health care provider.  • Tools uses include VMware vSphere Client 5.5 and Configuration Manager - MS System Center 2012 Operations Manager both for systems administration and remote connectivity, and monitoring - MS Exchange 2007 Mail Box creations, as well as user account, Wintel security and distribution list creations completed using AD Users and Computers.  • Member of IT leadership team, which provided advice, data security and data risk management needs and strategic directions.  • ComVault for backups/restores.  • Cisco IronPort Anti-Spam  • Cherwell used for managing assigned support tickets and for tracking work. IT Systems Support Analyst 3M - Medina, OH January 2015 to July 2015 Contribution  • Administer Azure accounts, and troubleshoot the plant's Office365 environment migration as Tier I/II rep for that site, included phone setup configuration to new email system.  • Assisted desktop support role for the 100 node network that involves supporting HP Elite Book laptops, HP t610 Thin Client, and HP Pro Desk systems.  • Direct hands-on desktop support / Customer-facing work within both the office, and the adjacent plant floor, including onboarding, and terminations, acquisitions, and end-user how-to training.  • Basic understanding of systems, and printer connectivity trouble-shooting is required.  • Experience in work that is Server Support / Windows 2012R2 infrastructure related to Remote Desktop Services, Group Policy, and Active Directory User and Computers OU administration.  • Completed project: Barracuda firewall install, and spam filter. Tier 1 Systems Support Admin Tier Point - Seattle, WA August 2014 to December 2014 Contribution  • Provided Operating Systems support for Windows 2012, Windows 2008 and Windows 2003 both include virtual environments (including Win2k8 Hyper-V). It is imperative to have a strong understanding of DNS, and Active Directory, as well as the ability to utilize MS Office 365.  • Worked on rotating shift in a 24/7 SLA for Data Center supporting NOC administration of Windows 2k8/2012 and Linux server platforms, server connectivity, and systems setup for mainly either Web Administrators or DBAs to place the servers in production (both physical Dell and HP servers, and virtual VMware machines).  • External support of customers that range from small business to enterprise environment, although most contact involves medium sized companies, all of which require a meticulous, flexible, and respectful approach when communicating and explaining concepts.  • Responded to alerts using IP Mon, Graphite, and SNMP that monitor the health of development and productions environment servers (both VMware AHD physical HP servers running Windows 2003/2008/2012).  • Internal ticketing software utilized to keep track of work and cases/tickets.  • Supported Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, Event Logs, Perf Mon, Backup Jobs, understanding the functionality and use of Load Balancing and MCS. Senior Server Support Administrator Microsoft - Redmond, WA September 2013 to August 2014 Contribution  • Provided Tier I, and Tier II incident management NOC type support 24/7 for a wide array of online services hosted in data centers on the Microsoft Redmond campus.  • Responded to SCOM alerts, handling triaged tickets, performing server builds, and performing escalations.  • Additionally this role required frequent hands-on support for the HP and Dell servers the data centers regarding hardware maintenance, support, backups using Veritas Backup Exec, and system upgrades and imaging using WDS.  • Operating Systems included Windows 20012/2008 and Windows 2003 both include virtual environments (including Win2k8 Hyper-v).  • Imperative to have a understanding of DNS, Active Directory, IIS and Clustering.  • Voluntary Managed and Completed Project creating two virtual test environments for MS Exchange Support Engineers. Also, professional collaboration with support peers is vital for completing work. Windows Server Administrator Honeywell - Tempe, AZ August 2012 to March 2013 Contribution  • Provided top tier support for the internal data center in Tempe for internal 'customers' regarding production build server hardening for MS Windows Operating Systems 2003 and 2008 R2, and platform support. This is similar to working in a NOC / Data Center.  • Communication was mainly via an online incident management support application Remedy, as well as Lotus Notes 8.5. Rotating pager in a 24/7 SLA for DC as well as administration of servers, clustering, connectivity, and setup for mainly either Web Administrators or DBAs to place the servers in production (both physical Dell and HP servers, and virtual VMware machines).  • Over 500 servers which required our maintenance and monitoring using MOM/SCOM. This department takes ownership of all stages of pre-production setup while both remotely administrating machines, and occasional hands-on troubleshooting. This job does require a strong understanding of Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, Event Logs, Perf Mon, Backup Jobs, understanding the functionality and use of Load Balancing and MCS. Windows Server Administrator / NOC Operator Admin Tata Consultancy - Redmond, WA June 2010 to July 2011 Contribution  • MOC (Microsoft Operations Center in Redmond, WA) Support through TATA Consultancy in Tier I and Tier II incident management support 24x7 for a wide array of online services hosted in data centers stationed globally, and the escalation of incidents to necessary teams.  • Over 2500 thousand servers which required our maintenance and monitoring using MOM/SCOM.  • Internally provided Tier II incident management support 24/7 for a wide array of online services hosted in data centers on the Microsoft Redmond campus.  • Responded to SCOM alerts, handling triaged tickets, performing server builds, f and performing escalations.  • Additionally this role required frequent hands-on support for the HP and Dell servers the data centers regarding hardware maintenance, support, system upgrades and imaging.  • Operating Systems included Windows 2008 and Windows 2003 both include virtual environments (including Win2k8 Hyper-v).  • Imperative to have a strong understanding of DNS, Active Directory, IIS and Clustering. Windows Systems Engineer Pemco Insurance - Seattle, WA June 2008 to May 2009 Contribution  • Provided 24/7 incident management support for Wintel servers in a Data Center in the downtown Seattle area.  • Operating system Wintel security hardening, monitoring administration, and audit management.  • Duties included racking/cabling servers, Operating System installations and support as well as hardware (HP and IBM servers) break-fix support.  • Normal procedures involve utilization of Change Requests, Procedure and support documentation, as well as Support Tickets for tracking work and in completing escalations.  • Interacted with all forms of management as well as interacting with Project Managers in planning and implementing IT projects, upgrades, and roll-outs, while utilizing the MS Office 2007 suite.  • Supported operating systems Windows 2000, 2003 and 2008 (QA), of which 2008R2 was starting to be pushed out in a new virtualized environment using VMware. SMS 2003 implemented for pushing MS Windows Critical Updates, Symantec Net Backup, and ePolicy Orchestrator for managing McAfee anti-virus software updates.  • Coordinated move phases, contributing expertise toward technical documentation along with gathering and validating asset data, completing server upgrades, and communicating move updates are the position's main primary duties.  • Involved in the support for Wintel servers and racking/cabling servers.  • Created primarily for the support and assistance in managing the move of Windows servers from several data centers to a single off-site DC. Support Engineer 3 Microsoft - Issaquah, WA December 2007 to June 2008 Contribution  • Ensured the highest quality and fastest response to customers via email and phone, in a challenging environment demanding meticulous task tracking software and fulfilment of extensive administrative processes.  • Performed test case reproductions in a repro-lab for the analysis and the support of platform and performance issues for Windows XP, Server 2003, Vista SP1, Windows 2008, and 2008 Hyper-V.  • Frequently, these problems will not only be technically complex, but will be politically charged situations requiring the highest level of customer skill and diplomacy both externally and internally.  • Issues will involve broad, solid knowledge of all Microsoft's operating systems or in-depth hardware knowledge; cases have included OS installation, software/hardware compatibility and setup performance issues that involve the researching of Windows Operating System architecture.  • Responsibilities included ownership and the driving of cases, defining reproduction steps and escalation hand off, as well has technical writing, and collaboration with software and hardware developers.  • Contributed to the overall administration of the repro-lab systems, and support of Windows based Operating Systems, applications maintenance and component upgrades. In particular this includes the support of Active Directory, Terminal Services, DNS, batch, and backup specifications and verification using Veritas Backup Exec, and the upkeep of operations documentation. Projects included re-builds, and test center environment reproductions.  • Role demanded analytical skills while utilizing both initially updated knowledge base, and frequent collaboration with other departments, and if necessary outside vendors. Windows Server Administrator TRW Automotive - Livonia, MI September 2006 to September 2007 Contribution  • Resolved incident management of support tickets and escalations regarding the hardware and software of the 400 Windows 2003/2000 Intel-based servers in the Data Center of TRW North American Head Quarters.  • Involved in the use of VMware 1.3.1 Virtual Server, MS Virtual Server 2005 and documentation in support of QS 9000 goals.  • Provided Active Directory support including Account Administration and Domain integration of WinNT 4.0, 2000 and 2003 domains.  • Managed and completed a project that created two test forests, one 2000 and one 2003, and test creating forest trusts and forest integration. This had also involved upgrading a server from 2000 to 2003, and testing Microsoft's USMT 2.0.  • Used BigFix for OS Patch management, which was later changed to SMS.  • Worked with Network Administrators in regards to issues that may involve network infrastructure such as a Cisco Load Balancing Switch, or Cabling.  • Utilized the following software like MS Administrative tools, including IIS, DHCP, DNS, WINS, Group Policy, and Active Directory support tools.  • Remote Administration: PC Anywhere 10.0, VNC, Windows Remote Desktop or Terminal Services  • Monitored software, updated management software: Symantec System Center Console 10, Big Fix Enterprise Console Ver 6, Solar winds Network Monitor, Tivoli for managing backups, and GFI Network Monitor Server Manager 5.5. Education Bachelor of Arts in International Relations in International Relations Michigan State University - East Lansing, MI