Network Engineer Network Engineer Network Engineer Odenville, AL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer Dynetics - Huntsville, AL June 2019 to Present Serving as the only Network Engineer on a team comprised of four Government Contractors working on various projects with the Army, Air Force, Navy, and Marine Corps. Designs, implements and troubleshoots network architectures on various OS platforms such as Avaya, Cisco and Nexus.     Key Contributions:     • Converted and migrated six configuration files across two different OS platforms into one configuration file with 100% success rate.  • Designed and drew multiple network diagrams on Visio, which were then used to illustrate the network architecture design to the customer. Network Administrator (Contract) Spire - Birmingham, AL July 2018 to June 2019 One of two Network Administrators for Spire, INC, a national natural gas company comprised of over 60 locations and over 8000 employees. Installs, configures, and manages network switches and routers. Works directly with Cisco, Avaya and Aruba equipment, managing these devices from both a GUI and command-line-interface. Monitors networking, UPS and PDU devices using Solarwinds/Orion. Operates the SysAid ticketing system to resolve end user problems.     Key Contributions:  ·     Migrated over 200 switches and routers from ACS to ISE for authentication management.  · Performed physical and remote troubleshooting for over 500 end-user tickets in a 6-month time span.  ·    Managed the relocation of 50 new contractors to a single floor, resulting in the testing and activating of 100 ports and associated networked appliances.   ·     Managed the inventory of all organizational networking equipment with frequent team updates as needed.   ·     Responsible for documenting the organizations network interconnections diagram.  Network Technician (Contract) TEKsystems - Birmingham, AL January 2018 to July 2018 Contractor for St. Vincent’s Hospital as a network technician. Only Network Technician working with a senior level network engineer. Contract was to design and implement Avaya technology within their large healthcare environment to replace their cisco devices and technology.     Key Contributions:  ·        Converted the configured over 150 switches from Cisco to Avaya.  ·        Assisted in the configuration of two Virtual Services Platform (VSP) Avaya switches.  ·        Patch 10GB fiber optic cable through to the main data center.  PC Technician (Contract) TEKsystems - Birmingham, AL September 2017 to December 2017 Contractor for St. Vincent’s Hospital as a PC Technician during their migration project from McKesson to Cerner. Operated a ticketing system, and performed a magnitude of troubleshooting techniques.     Key Contributions:   ·        Provide technical support and troubleshooting to network, desktop and systems hardware and software applications for 1000+ employee base.   ·        Support issues and applications in Windows, MS Office environment, as well as Citrix virtual desktops.   ·        Provided support for six hospital locations during the go-live event for the Cerner Merger.   ·        Proficient with Service-Now ticketing system.  ·        Imaged a total of 45 desktop, laptop and thin client PC systems.   ·        Exhibited working knowledge of IT operation, responsibilities and workflow processes.  Signal Support Systems Specialist Soldier, US Army 2010 to 2014 Served as the only IT representative for three different companies, supporting one while deployed to a combat zone. Recognized by every level of leadership for outstanding achievements.    Key Contributions:      ·        Successfully trained over 900 soldiers in the operation of various battlefield radio systems with a 0% fail rate.   ·        Supported over 200 vehicles from various units and improved the success rate on proper radio communication by 25%  ·        Installed and updated the new Vehicle Intercommunication System-3(VIC-3) from the old Vehicle Intercommunication System-1(VIC-1) on over 150 vehicles.  ·        Served as the Communications Expert for three different companies over a period of three years  ·        Personally trained and mentored 12 platoon communication representatives.   ·        Designed and implemented new methods and procedures for putting in work orders on communication equipment,   ·        Deployed to Kuwait in support of Operation Enduring Freedom and trained over 40 Kuwaiti soldiers on various communication devices.  ·        Cross trained with our satellite experts in fiber optic cabling, and then taught a class on fiber optic cabling to 25 soldiers.  ·        Designed and set a new standard for proper cable management on all vehicles and Field Stacks, which comprised of battlefield switches and routers. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Networks and Cybersecurity in Computer Networks and Cybersecurity University of Maryland University College Associates of Science in Computer Studies in Computer Studies University of Maryland University College Skills Routers (2 years), Switches (2 years), Network Administration (2 years), Troubleshooting (6 years), ticketing system (1 year), Solarwinds/Orion (1 year), F5 APM (1 year), Documentation (2 years), Coordination (1 year), Microsoft Office 365 (3 years), Organizational Skills (6 years), Networking (2 years), Technical Support (6 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/joshua-dicker-b362b2108 Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: SPC/E-4 August 2010 to October 2014 Disabled Veteran. Served as the only IT representative for three different companies, supporting one while deployed to a combat zone. Recognized by every level of leadership for outstanding achievements.