Job Seeker Harrison, TN Work Experience Walmart August 2015 to April 2019 • Greet customers  • Anser customer questions and direct them to appropriate area  • Inspect area for safety  Assist in asset protection Systems Administrator Honeywell September 2008 to July 2013 • Maintained 3000 servers as part of a team for IBM.  • Managed space and created shares on NetAPP appliances.  • Supported Netbackup, configuration, level3 support, testing and verifying backups.  • Managed and supported Active Directory and VMWare.  • Configured permissions in Active Directory, resolved access issues.  • Troubleshoot group policies. Add memory and disk space to virtual servers.  • Configured snapshots for virtual servers. Supported virtual servers. Configured memory and disk.  • Applied patches and hotfixes.  • Supported Microsoft Clusters.  • Supported IBM blade servers.  • Familiar with Solar Winds, remote desktop, Radmin, MS server tools.  • Used batch scripting to script some admin tasks.  • Managed DHCP, DNS.  • Configured security.  • Familiarity with Visual Basic.  • Resolved connectivity and performance issues for servers both virtual and physical.  • Telephone support to remote customers  • Supported IIS.  • Supported SAN.  • Supported backups and restores using Tivoli and Netbackup  • Resolve customer issues  • Worked with netbackup and tivoli backup and tape liebrary Systems Administrator Pomeroy June 2006 to September 2008 • Maintained 3000 servers as part of a team for IBM.  • Implemented security updates and configured Active Directory permissions.  • Installed & configured Windows 2003 servers. Domain Administrator.  • Created and managed trusts.  • 3nd level AD support.  • Manage space on NetApp Volumes.  • Performed restores using SnapManager.  • Used batch scripting. Edit group policy  • DHCP, DNS, WINS.  • Configure security and NTFS permissions, problem resolution. Education Information Systems/Business Management Chattanooga State Community College - Chattanooga, TN