Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems/ Network Administrator Fishkill, NY I am a quality focused IT professional with over 20 years of experience as a systems/network administrator. I am a results-driven achiever with exemplary planning and organizational skills, along with a high degree of detail orientation. My major strengths include highly effective leadership, communication, motivational and inspirational skills, self-motivated, energetic, dedicated and well-respected by management and colleagues. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator CountyWide Insurance Agency - Jefferson Valley, NY August 2009 to Present • Install and support new Windows Servers with MS Windows 2012 operating system along with Microsoft SQL 2014, configured, and tested new equipment, including computer and peripheral equipment.  • Migrate and upgrade from Vertafore AFW version 5.0 to Vertafore AMS360 version 16.1 In- House.  • Install, configure and update all workstations from Microsoft Windows 7 to Microsoft Windows 10.  • Handle overall hardware, software and network configurations, troubleshooting, network maintenance and administration.  • Perform TCP/IP networking, including DNS and DHCP.  • Provide routine IT support in both administrative and technical areas. Network Administrator Field Home - Cortlandt Manor, NY May 2012 to March 2019 • Install, configure, secure, maintain and troubleshoot campus-wide enterprise servers, application and database infrastructure including Active Directory services, Group Policy, SQL services, Vocera services, etc.  • Management of Active Directory including creating/disabling end-user accounts, permissions, access rights, and storage allocations in accordance with best-practices regarding privacy, security, and regulatory compliance.  • Management of Avaya Definity PBX  • Management of Vocera Servers including accounts and badge activations  • Maintain the backups for systems and files locally and at remote sites  • Monitor performance and maintain systems according to requirements  • Provide end user support for workstations, laptops, printers, network devices, peripherals, and other computer-related devices.  • Ensure security through access controls, backups and firewalls  • Evaluate new technologies, services, hardware and software solutions.  • Work with vendor and consulting services to resolve technology issues.  • Write and maintain clear, thorough technical documentation and network infrastructure drawings  • Deliver effective written and oral presentations and project updates for both technical and non- technical individuals. Skills System Admin, Vmware, System Administrator, Active Directory Additional Information Summary of Technical Skill Qualifications:    Provided technical assistance and training to system users and instructed users in use of equipment. Installation of every type of hardware to computer systems such as: motherboards, processors, hard drives, video cards, printers, scanners etc. Setup new workstations and "imaged" them. Expertise includes heavy emphasis on problem detection and solving, fixing and reinstalling software and hardware. I have numerous experiences with virus, spyware, and malware removal along with implementing measures and techniques to limit infections. Troubleshoot network connectivity, desktop configuration, printer connectivity, and network access issues.    Operating Systems:    • Windows 98/2000 & Pro/XP & Pro/Vista/Windows 7, Windows 10  • Windows Server NT/2000/2003/2008/ 2012  • MS SQL 2000 through 2014  • Novell Netware 3x, 4x, 5x, 6x    Software: This is a general list of software and hardware that I have installed and operated most recently and in the past.    • Management of Avaya Definity PBX Configuration and Systems Manager  • Adobe Creative Cloud  • Management of Vocera Servers  • Backup Software - Symantec Backup Exec, Vertias, XXCOPY  • Blackberry Enterprise Software & Desktop Manager  • Citrix  • APC - PowerChute Business Edition  • Real VNC  • Microsoft Office - All versions  • Microsoft Exchange 2003 - Add/Remove/Rights account management  • MS SQL 2000 - 2014 – Add/Remove/rights account management  • Novell GroupWise 8.x  • Novell BorderManager Firewall  • Novell ZenWorks  • HP OpenView  • Management of VMware services  • Management of Active Directory services  • Sonic Wall SOHO Firewall  • Various diagnostic programs of major brands of equipment    Networking:    • LAN/WAN, TCP/IP, Ethernet, hubs, and wireless  • Some experience with switches  • Some cabling experience    Education and References furnished upon request