Server Administrator Server <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Taylors, SC Work Experience Server Administrator Roechling Automotive USA LLP - Duncan, SC May 2015 to August 2019 •  Domain wide Active Directory Group Policy management and server administration on Microsoft file and directory services 2008, 2012 and 2016 servers.  • Migrated Virtual server environment from Citrix Xenserver to Microsoft Hyper-V and Vmware 6.5 environments.  • Setup and maintain Microsoft Windows Deployment Services and standardized thick image for industrial PCs and standard users.   Systems Administrator Bob Jones University - Greenville, SC November 2007 to April 2015 • Domain wide Group Policy management and server administration on Novell and Microsoft Active Directory file and directory services servers.  • Migrate file systems and user authentication services from Novell eDirectory to Microsoft Active Directory.  • Migrate company email system from Novell Groupwise to Microsoft Exchange 2010 and Lync 2010 systems.  • Develop Microsoft Server 2008, 2008 R2, 2012, 2012 R2 standard operating system images for faster and easier standardized server deployment.  • Managed VMware virtual environment for server and special needs workstation deployments of virtual machine collection pools for labs and non-dedicated computer needs with VMware View Administrator.  • IT Service Desk coordinator and special projects developer  • Coordinate 4 technical support teams with 24 student technicians and 8 full time staff personnel for support of university owned and issued Mac and Windows computers along with 10 computer labs.  • Work with team leaders and student workers to help develop more efficient troubleshooting skills and procedures.  • Organize and develop solutions for special events and projects that would come up throughout the year and work to streamline existing processes.  • Microsoft Group Policy Administration for server and workstation configuration, standardization and security rights assignments.  • Develop standardized operating system images to be deployed to university computers for faculty, staff and computer lab machines.  • Create silent background installer packages for needed applications to be added to computer systems beyond the standard image requirements.  • Implement LANDesk Desktop Management software for centralized desktop management and monitoring.   Systems Administrator Selma Medical Associates - Winchester, VA March 2000 to November 2007 • Domain wide Group Policy management and server administration on Novell and Microsoft Active Directory file and directory services servers.  • Migrate file systems and user authentication services from Novell eDirectory to Microsoft Active Directory.  • Migrate company email system from Novell Groupwise to Microsoft Exchange 2010 and Lync 2010 systems.  • Develop Microsoft Server 2008, 2008 R2, 2012, 2012 R2 standard operating system images for faster and easier standardized server deployment.  • Managed VMware virtual environment for server and special needs workstation deployments of virtual machine collection pools for labs and non-dedicated computer needs with VMware View Administrator.  • IT Service Desk coordinator and special projects developer  • Coordinate 4 technical support teams with 24 student technicians and 8 full time staff personnel for support of university owned and issued Mac and Windows computers along with 10 computer labs.  • Work with team leaders and student workers to help develop more efficient troubleshooting skills and procedures.  • Organize and develop solutions for special events and projects that would come up throughout the year and work to streamline existing processes.  • Microsoft Group Policy Administration for server and workstation configuration, standardization and security rights assignments.  • Develop standardized operating system images to be deployed to university computers for faculty, staff and computer lab machines.  • Create silent background installer packages for needed applications to be added to computer systems beyond the standard image requirements.  • Implement LANDesk Desktop Management software for centralized desktop management and monitoring.   Education High school or equivalent Skills System Administrator, Vmware, SCCM, Powershell, Active Directory, Hyper-V, Microsoft Office, System Admin Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dbdu2emlo157o8ar Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.