Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Tillage Construction LLC Baton Rouge, LA Work Experience Systems Administrator Tillage Construction LLC - Baton Rouge, LA 2013 to Present • Performed Regular backup and maintenance on servers.  • Deployed Windows and anti-virus updates to networked computers.  • Provided end user access and permissions to data servers.  • Managed Access to email server.  • Maintained up to date systems by leading computer refresh projects. Senior Technology Support Engineer Kean Miller Law Firm - Baton Rouge, LA 2011 to Present • Exclusive Sccm Administrator with knowledge of Query creation, Reporting, Boundaries, Distribution point creation and deployment, DP Role management  • Deployed and Developed SCCM packages, OSD, and Task sequence while on Current Branch  • PowerShell and VBS scripting experience  • App-V Deployment  • 7 years of Appsense Administrator (Environment and Application Customization)  • Created and managed user accounts, computers, and security groups using active directory.  • Broadened company connectivity by expanding network from main office to satellite offices.  • Increased security by constructing VPN access for company employees.  • Accommodated growing employee base by deploying and managing virtual servers.  • Citrix Server Administration Systems Administrator Baton Rouge Community College - Baton Rouge, LA 2009 to 2011 • Responsible for setup and configuration of enterprise wide applications and servers.  • Managed and maintained 50+ Apple desktops and laptops in a computer lab environment.  • Controlled local policies from Apple X Servers to govern and mandate students in the open lab.  • Constructed user friendly tutorials for students to operate within the college's technology.  • Operated, adjusted, and performed maintenance to peripheral IT and auxiliary equipment.  • Monitored and responded to console messages and operations questions.  • Modified console job control language. Systems Administrator C &V Technologies, LLC - Baton Rouge, LA 2008 to 2009 • Performed Regular backup and maintenance on servers.  • Deployed Windows and anti-virus updates to networked computers.  • Provided end user access and permissions to data servers.  • Managed Access to email server.  • Maintained up to date systems by leading computer refresh projects.    • Apple Certified Support Professional 10.6  • Apple Certified Technical Coordinator  • CompTIA A+ Certification  • HP ATA Certification Baton Rouge Community College - Baton Rouge, LA 2007 to 2008 Southeastern University - Hammond, LA 2004 to 2006