Senior Windows Systems Administrator Senior Windows <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Windows Systems Administrator Round Rock, TX Work Experience Senior Windows Systems Administrator MANTECH/KGS/SMS - Austin, TX 2014 to Present Provide support to the Department of Veterans Affairs in order to care for those "who shall have  borne the battle" and for their families and survivors.  • Build, manage and maintain 500+ Windows servers in a cloud environment for development, test, pre-production and production environments.  • Ensure that system design and specifications conform to privacy standards and requirements.  • Create and manage objects in Active Directory.  • Manage elevated privileges for system users.    1  Round Rock, TX 78681 ? (512) 215-6009 ? dliving2010@gmail.com  • Automate repetitive tasks by scripting application installations which also ensure consistent server  builds.  • Install updated drivers, patches, and security updates.  • Ensure technical controls are in place for safeguarding PII and/or PHI from compromise or unauthorized access.  • Install and configure application software.  • Monitored systems for performance and provided recommendations as needed. Implemented  recommendations resulting in improvement of system performance  • Ensure server build consistency by following server build documents.  • Manage DNS to ensure servers and backup NICs are properly mapped.  • Install, configure and ensure NetBackup is working properly on all servers, and work with Backup  team to restore servers as needed.  • Configure RDCM to manage all cloud VMs; resulting in quicker response to issues, as well as helping  other system administrators understand the environment.  • Document cloud environment to track Build Date, Change Order, Program Manager, Configuration as well as decommission data.  • Provide timely updates to Incidents, Requests and Change Orders and ensure SLA measurements are  met.  • Collaborate with Project and Build Managers as requested to educate and provide solutions to customer requests.  • Work remotely in a self-managed environment ensuring high availability and that work is performed  promptly. Senior Systems Administrator STELLARGY - Austin, TX 2010 to 2014 • Provide server support for IBM contract consisting of 28 agencies for the State of Texas.  • Quickly resolve high priority incidents; avoiding SLA penalties.  • Manage 3,000+ Windows servers in 100+ domains; as well as standalone servers in the DMZ.  • Manage all server related issues to resolution by working with other technical teams.  • Ensure that technical controls are in place for safeguarding PII and PHI from compromise.  • Provide 24/7 Remote Support and travel to sites as needed to troubleshoot and resolve outages.  • Decrease backlogged incident count from 2,400+ to less than 100.  • Provided training and mentoring to other System Administrators to increase team's expertise and knowledge.  • Configure and update RDCM to manage all Windows Systems for the agencies; resulting in more  timely response to issues, as well as helping other system administrators understand the environment.  • Upgrade legacy systems to current supported operating system to resolve problematic system  failures.    2  Round Rock, TX 78681 ? (512) 215-6009 ? dliving2010@gmail.com Systems Administrator Advanced Continental Airlines 2006 to 2010 AT&T, etc. ) to troubleshoot issues.  • Using redundant hardware, maintain a zero-outage network.  • Using SCCM, maintain security patches on a monthly basis.  • Use MOM and SIM to proactively manage hardware issues.  • Perform annual certifications on servers to maintain a COE.  • Accommodate special customer requests as needed.  • Troubleshoot Wireless and IIS issues. Systems Administrator Advanced HP/EDS - AZ/CA/MI/TX 1994 to 2010 Systems Administrator Advanced Navy Marine Corps Intranet 2003 to 2006 • Monitor all server farms and check for server connectivity.  • Monitor and troubleshoot Exchange queues to ensure message flow.  • Monitor Print Queues and delete print jobs which are in error.  • Developed application for managing 31,000+ printers for EDS/NMCI.  • Check connectivity of servers using Unix Scrips.  • Create tickets in Remedy for incidents.  • Create daily status reports to update Management and the next shift on condition of the network.  • Run Performance Monitors to check on the health of each server.  • Clear and archive Event Logs to backup servers.  • Monitor the health of cluster services and fail over services when needed. Systems Administrator EDS/GMAC, EDS Sales, EDS Recruiting, EDS/America West, EDS/Federal and EDS Human Resources - Phoenix, AZ 1996 to 2003 • Troubleshoot and resolve network related issues.  • Responsible for daily administration of 7 Windows NT 4.0 Servers and 1 OS/2 Server.  • Provide desktop support for 70+ Windows NT 4.0 Workstation users.  • Engineered both Operation Centers in Phoenix, AZ and Flint, MI.  • Document the environment as it applies to each project.  • Assisted in developing Disaster Recovery Plan.  • Maintain and monitor Onan Diesel Generator and Transfer Switch.  • Created the System's Administration Manual for software installation, workstation configuration  and server administration to adhere to ISO 9000 standards.  • Developed databases and reports used for daily audits and performance measurements.  • Performed daily backups of all critical servers.  • Monitor, troubleshoot and resolve issues for both voice and data T1 lines.  • Work with Application and Network Vendors to resolve issues.  • Build and configure Windows NT Servers and Workstations.  • Update Anti-Virus software on all Servers and Workstations as new patches are released.  • Provide 24/7 on call support.  • Support Norstar Switch and voice mail services. Systems Administrator Neodata - Phoenix, AZ 1994 to 1996 • Buildout datacenter in Phoenix.  • Build and administer Novell Servers.  • Develop Windows Desktop templates to support COE (Consistent Office Environment).  • Build and support 400+ Windows Workstations and 500+ terminals.  • Troubleshoot and resolve network issues.  • Provide 24/7 on call support.  • Perform daily backups and software upgrades.  • Weekly meetings with clients to manage current and upcoming projects.  • Create diskless Workstations as a cost-effective solution for low budget projects. Advanced Network Administrator ALTERNATIVE RESOURCES - Denver, CO 1994 to 1994 Key Contribution:  Design and build three MDFs for IBM's customer Neodata, located in the Boulder, CO; resulting in eliminating  many network issues they were experiencing. Programmer PACE MEMBERSHIP WAREHOUSE - Denver, CO 1987 to 1994 Key Contribution:  Developed application to automate the transfer of updated pricing data from corporate office to all  warehouses stores for the Fresh department's Hobart scales. Education Associate in Computer Integrated Systems Service in Computer Integrated Systems Service OKLAHOMA STATE UNIVERSITY 1986 Skills Active directory, Exchange, Networking, Html, Visual basic, Dhcp, Network monitoring, Network troubleshooting, Vmware, Sharepoint, Firewall, Backups, Exchange server 2003, Linux, Wireless, Systems design, Symantec, Lan, Wordpress Additional Information IT SKILLS    • LAN Administration • Windows Server (to 2012) • Windows Workstation  • VMware vCD • SCCM 2007 (to 10)  • Debian / Linux • Systems Installation, • Systems Design  • Wireless Networking Configuration & Upgrading • Patching  • Monitoring Tools • AV (McAfee & Symantec) • Backups  • Active Directory Management • Exchange Server 2003 • Group Policy  • Cluster Management • HP Systems Insight Management  • HTML / WordPress Manager • Powershell  • Network Monitoring • Network Troubleshooting • Sharepoint 2010  • DHCP • Basic / Visual Basic 5.0 • Performance Monitoring  • Firewall Rules • Hardware Management • Azure