Senior Systems Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Systems Administrator - Smartronix Inc Fort Washington, MD IT Professional looking to utilize my 10+ years of System Administration and experience to support a Government entity. Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator Smartronix Inc - Arlington, VA June 2017 to Present • Administered and maintained seven (7) Nutanix clusters by pushing updates, configuration changes and troubleshooting any issues within the Nutanix enviornment.   • Administer production, development, and testing lab in a complex, heterogeneous, cross-platform enviornment.  • Support seven (7) domains via VMware ESXi 6.0/6.5 with each domain hosting between 30-40 servers.  • Conduct and coordinate functional tests across a variety of enterprise platforms to guarantee proper stability of systems.  • Manage admin/user accounts, enterprise applications, and server applications.  • Migrated applications/servers(in particular Microsoft Exchange, Domain Controllers and File/Print servers) from 2008R2/2003 to Windows Server 2012 R2 with minimal downtime and full functionality.  • Implemented security software such as Sentris, HBSS and KMS.  • Tested and stood up different troubleshooting and patching solutions such as Dameware, Shavlik and WSUS.  • Connected different server software to instances of SQL 2014/2012 and ensured functionality.  • Patched systems on a regular basis using Shavlik. Systems Administrator Harris Corporation - Washington, DC March 2014 to June 2017 • Responsible for all aspects of domain from the server to the desktop.  • Administered Windows Server 2008, 2012, 2012 R2 and Windows 7, 8.1, 10, MAC OSX workstations.  • Supported five (5) Microsoft Hyper-V 3.0 servers hosting 40 servers and workstations along with an additional five physical servers.  • Tested various software installations and patches on a test domain hosted on Microsoft Azure.  • Supported 125 users.  • Focused on maintaining Microsoft Exchange and Active Directory for all of our users and assets.  • Maintained DNS for the network on both IPv4 and IPv6.  • Assisted in the roll out of Bitlocker encryption and AtHoc that is used for our emergency notification system.  • Maintained IIS and SQLServers, as well as Help Desk call tracking and inventory software.  • Also provided support to the Mobile Device Management utilizing Good for Enterprise services primarily supporting Android and iPhone phones.  • One of the bigger tasks that were accomplished is the implementation of DISA Security Technical Implantation Guides (STIGs) across the servers and workstations needed to pass an inspection.  • I created multiple group policies to deploy all security settings to various platforms where needed.  • I created server and workstation images implementing necessary STIG and Microsoft patches.  • I installed and configured Desktop Central that is used to monitor desktops as well as software baselines and Network monitoring. Systems Administrator DMI Inc - Patuxent River, MD November 2013 to March 2014 • Scanned, patched, configured and hardened Microsoft Windows Server 2003 and 2008 using VMWare, Retina and Cisco VPN.  • Applied Microsoft updates to the servers and ensured functionality by testing.  • Automated weekly Retina scans and prepared reports for the Information Assurance Officer.  • Installed, configured and replicated VM servers using Veeam Backup. Systems Administrator DMI Inc - Alexandria, VA May 2012 to November 2013 • Managed a team of five (5) deployment technicians to ensure that data is reported correctly and installations are running accordingly.  • Deployed Windows 7 desktops and laptops for the Office of the Secretary of Defense for 16,000 users as a part of a computer refresh.  • Ensured that the users had the essential software and hardware needed to perform their jobs.  • Installed Data Armor on laptops for hard disk encryption as well as create and maintain user accounts on Data Armor's backend.  • Imaged computers using network PXE boot while maintaining and transferring the user's data from their Windows XP to Windows 7 computers. Network Administrator J.F Taylor - Patuxent River, MD October 2011 to May 2012 • Provided support for a lab connected to the Research Development Test & Engineering Network (RDT&E), both onsite and remotely.  • Supported approximately 150 computers all with Windows 7 installed along with four (4) Windows Server 2008.  • Applied the latest patches and software updates on machines for IAVA reporting.  • Maintained McAfee HBSS on all assets on the network on all network.  • Installed the latest Microsoft updates using WSUS.  • Tracked Network Administration work from the customer via Heat(Ticketing Solution).  • Hardened new systems using Gold Disk and the Retina scanning engine for accreditation to be reviewed by an Information Assurance Officer (IAO).  • Used Mac Port Authentication via Windows Server 2008 Active Directory to administer VLAN memberships for various labs.  • Managed users by creating user accounts, configuring AD group memberships and configuring Access Control Lists. Systems Administrator MIL Corporation March 2009 to September 2011 • Provided support for labs connected to the Research Development Test & Engineering Network (RDT&E), both onsite and remotely, Classified and Unclassified.  • Applied the latest patches and software updates on machines for IAVA reporting.  • Deployed McAfee HBSS required for DISA for various labs.  • Applied the latest Microsoft updates using WSUS.  • Tracked System Administration (SA) work from our customer via Heat.  • Hardened new systems using Gold Disc and the Retina scanning engine for accreditation to be reviewed by an Information Assurance Officer (IAO).  • Used Mac Port Authentication via Windows Server 2003 Active Directory to administer VLAN memberships for various labs.  • Manage users by creating user accounts, configuring AD group memberships and configuring Access Control Lists.    Dec 2008 Lockheed Martin Help Desk Operator Tier 1 Alexandria, VA  to: March 2009    • Supported a user group of 300+ Government Employees using Active Directory and Remedy to create trouble tickets and track tasks.  • Resolved issues in Network connectivity, Print Servers, account maintenance, managed access to networked drives via Windows Server 2003's Active Directory.  • Deployed data at rest encryption software such as Mobile Armor. Desktop Support UMBC Office Information Tech - Baltimore, MD September 2007 to December 2007 • Supported students on the Residential Network and the campus wireless network.  • Provided walk in support for students as well as staff for software and hardware issues.  • Performed updates of trouble tickets daily basis and resolved issues in a timely  manner.  • When called for onsite inspections, I checked jacks for active network connectivity by using a network IP tester.  • As well as supporting students and staff's with their PC's I also assisted and maintained PC's/Mac's for various UMBC computer laboratories as needed. Education Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science University of Maryland Baltimore County - Baltimore, MD Skills EXCHANGE (4 years), Windows Server 2012 R2 (5 years), WINDOWS 7 (5 years), MAC (6 years), Active Directory (10+ years), Vmware (5 years), System Administrator (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Top Secret SCI Active Clearance April 2015 to April 2021 Polygraph CI April 2015 to April 2021 MCTS: Windows 7, Configuration April 2010 to Present CompTIA Security+ May 2009 to Present Additional Information SKILLS:  • OS - Windows 10, Windows 7, Mac OSX, Windows Server 2012 R2  • Virtualization - VMWare ESXi, Vsphere Web Client, Hyper-V  • Patching - Shavlik, WSUS, Big Fix  • Troubleshooting - Dameware, Manage Engine, Putty, Telnet  • Monitoring - Nagios, Desktop Central  • Security - Group Policy, Sentris, HBSS  • Migration - Domain Controller, Exchange 2016/2013, File Server