Office Administrator Office <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Foster Mom at BARCS Vets & Pets Towson, MD ? Reliable, flexible, dedicated, and compassionate  ? High level of proficiency in basic computer skills  ? Strong verbal and written communication skills  ? Strong interpersonal skills  ? Strong multi-tasking skills  ? Strong organizational skills  ? Ability to work under stress  ? CPR, AED, and First Aid for Healthcare Providers Certified  ? HIPAA Certified  ? Working Medical Terminology Knowledge Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Office Administrator Taggart Brown & Associates, Inc - Cockeysville, MD October 2017 to Present Computer proficiency and technical aptitude with the ability to use the following:  ? Microsoft Word, Power Point, Excel  ? Microsoft Outlook  ? QuickBooks Online  ? RedTeam (Cloud-Based Construction Software)  ? Coordinates subcontractors, processes invoices, maintains databases, collects expense data, recruiting and training employees.  ? Interacts with external clients and vendors on a regular basis, cultivating strong professional relationships.  ? Ensures strict confidentiality regarding all business and customer matters.  ? Authors, maintains and distributes various reports including cash flow, invoices, purchase orders, proposals, contracts, vendors and job files.  ? Conducts research using internet and other resources in order to accommodate specific project needs.  ? Created, implemented and managed human resource guidelines to include recruiting, onboarding of new employees, staff development, conflict resolution, benefits and compensations, records management, personnel and safety manuals, policies development, legal compliance, and manage payroll.  ? Performs all financial activities to include P&L statements and management reports. Completes bank reconciliation and collect on overdue accounts. Resolves billing disputes. Patient Service Associate Orthopedics & Joint Replacement Mercy Medical Center - Baltimore, MD April 2017 to October 2017 Computer proficiency and technical aptitude with the ability to use the following:  ? Microsoft Word, Power Point, Excel  ? Microsoft Outlook  ? Meditech  ? EPIC (Front Desk 100 & 200, Scanning)  ? HealthStream  ? Effectively manages customer requests for care, service, and information.  ? Takes the initiative to problem-solve occasional provision of inadequate service by a supporting department or by the patient care area to another department.  ? Check voicemail, throughout day, for prescription, refill requests, x-ray orders, physical therapy orders, and pre-operative paperwork.  ? Consistently answer the telephone in a prompt, pleasant, and courteous manner taking accurate messages including time, name, message and return phone number, and routing message accurately and appropriately to staff. Cyber Systems Operations Apprentice United States Air Force - Keesler AFB, MS 2009 to 2010 Apply computer security policies to safeguard systems and information  ? Categorize, isolate, and resolve system problems  ? Implements security fixes, operating system patches, and antivirus software  ? Develop plans to safeguard computer files against accidental or unauthorized modification, destruction, or disclosure and to meet emergency data processing needs  ? Monitor use of data files and regulate access to safeguard information in computer files  ? Used computers and computer systems (including hardware and software) to program, set up functions, enter data, or process information Education Information Technology Community College of the Air Force - Keesler AFB, MS Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years) Military Service Branch: Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: E-3 November 2009 to November 2010