Systems / CNC Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> / CNC <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems / CNC Administrator Summerville, SC ManageForce 05/2017 - 04/2019  ? Lead support for 5 clients and team support for 10+ additional clients CNC needs including management of offshore teams' tasks for clients under my supervision. These included preforming promotions, builds and deploys of full and update packages in all environments for Xe - 9.2.  ? Additional support in other areas of CNC responsibilities including installs of DV Save locations, X-ref, User Profiles Environment Save Locations, UDC, Data Dictionary, ESU/ASU's, setup of auditing, system restarts and Server Manager / SAW monitoring. Correcting and or updating of data using SQL queries / commands.    ERP Suites 03/2016 - 04/2017  ? Supported multiple clients CNC needs for a managed services company preforming promotion, build and deploy of full and update packages in all environments. Additional support of CNC responsibilities including installs of BI Publisher, X-ref, User Profiles and Roles security setup, UDC, Data Dictionary, ESU/ASU's, system restarts and Server Manager monitoring.    Independent Contractor 09/2015 - 03/2016  ? Responsible for supporting multiple clients CNC needs for an offshore managed services company preforming promotion, build and deploy of full and update packages in all environments. Additional support in other areas of CNC responsibilities including X-ref, security, UDC, Data Dictionary, ESU/ASU's, system restarts and monitoring.    COGNIZANT 06/2014 - 09/2015  ? Monitoring, tuning and performance of 22 separate EnterpriseOne environments including daily pre-production update packages and weekly production environment update packages.  ? Management and manipulation of AS400 job queues when queues were stacked due to long running jobs keeping job queues open for new requests.  ? Completion of Packman software install and configuration to allow unattended update packages in the pre-production environments to occur, saving multiple hours of CNC time allocation related to the preparation, build and deployment of packages.    ACME BRICK COMPANY 2011 - 2014    ? Monitoring, tuning and performance of 2 separate EnterpriseOne systems including upgrading of one system to Tools Release 9.1.2.3.  ? Daily update, insert, delete of records from sql databases to correct / update system and business data.    AVAIL MEDICAL - A FLEXTRONICS COMPANY 2006 - 2011    ? Implemented full security for Enterprise One 8.11 involving Role, Action and Field Level security and setup for Active Directory management.  ? Implemented change from JAS to OAS for E1 web connectivity.  ? Implementation and administration of Outage & Promotion Controls surrounding E1 and associated software services.  ? Implemented ESU Control System for documenting installation of patches and environment status    ELECTROLUX MAJOR APPLIANCES, INC. 2004 - 2006    ? Implemented full security for Enterprise One 8.9 /8.10 including full audit review involving Role, Action and Field Level security and associated controllership metrics.  ? Implementation and administration of ChangePoint Corporate Time Management System including training of local sites and support to go-live in 4 months.    SCHENECTADY INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. 1992 - 2003    ? Earned a $10,000 bonus after leading a project team through the successful conversion of a mainframe-based legacy system to an advanced $1.5 million ERP solution in less than 10 months while remaining under budget.  ? Achieved a $12,000 rebate for an annual SLA contract and attended expensive IT seminars at no cost after leading highly successful discussions and follow-up meetings on behalf of a vendor.  ? Developed an Access database to manage ERP system object modifications that enabled users to track code changes between test settings and production environments, resulting in a 50% drop in status-related inquiries.  ? Enlisted by J.D. Edwards to perform client presentations as a result of exceptional product familiarity, proven technical expertise, well developed communication skills, and a successful regional ERP implementation record  ? Successfully reduced package build times by 50% as a result of researching and promoting the use of Dell Servers.  ? Implemented software enhancements due to lack of functionality of early-release software.  ? Prior to position as Systems Administrator developed mainframe-reporting system to allow Sales/Returns and Commissions to be organized by Division, State and Country giving management a faster and more accurate picture of sales and gross profits. Work Experience Systems / CNC Administrator ManageForce 2017 to 2019 Daily and on-call support for 5 clients and team support for 10+ additional clients CNC needs for a managed services company preforming promotion, build and deploy of full and update packages in all environments for Xe - 9.2. Additional leadership support for offshore team keeping them aware of issues. Other areas of CNC responsibilities included installs of DV Save locations, X-ref, User Profiles, UDC, Data Dictionary, ESU/ASU's, setup of auditing, system restarts and Server Manager / SAW monitoring, SQL queries to manipulate and correct data change requests from clients and direct coordination with clients for End of Year ESU installs. Systems / CNC Administrator ERP Suites 2016 to 2017 Support for multiple clients CNC needs for a managed services company preforming Installs / Upgrades promotion, build and deploy of full and update packages in all environments. Additional support in other areas of CNC responsibilities including X-ref, security, UDC, Data Dictionary, ESU/ASU's Independent Contract Support 2015 to 2016 Systems / CNC Administrator    Support for multiple clients CNC needs for an offshore managed services company preforming promotion, build and deploy of full and update packages in all environments. Additional support in other areas of CNC responsibilities including X-ref, security, UDC, Data Dictionary, ESU/ASU's, system restarts and monitoring. Sr. Systems Engineer / CNC Administrator COGNIZANT - Dallas, TX 2014 to 2015 Support and manage a JD Edwards E1 software platform on an AS400 being run as a service with 22 environments. Responsibilities from package promotions & builds for all environments, OCM mappings, User / Role security updates. ESU / ASU administration, Task building and Security. Packman setup and administration to automate package builds. Bottomline TAP Administration. SQL data inserts / updates / deletes. Managed coordination between AS400 and JD Edwards CNC team to keep system up time at 99.9%. Systems / CNC Administrator ACME BRICK COMPANY - Fort Worth, TX 2011 to 2014 Acme Brick is a leading North American brick company recently becoming an important part of the Berkshire Hathaway conglomerate.  ? Upgrade of Tools release from 8.98 to 9.1.2.3 on our Payroll system.  ? Upgrade of pre-production Vertex Sales Tax Q series.  ? Responsible for ESU system installs and promotions.  ? SQL inserts / updates / deletes to system and business data to keep systems and data accurate.  ? Build, Monitor and deploy multiple weekly package builds in all environments.  ? Monthly and yearly updates to Vertex Sales Tax Q-Series Systems / CNC Administrator AVAIL MEDICAL A FLEXTRONICS COMPANY - Irving, TX 2006 to 2011 A leading multi-billion-dollar international Electronics and Medical design, manufacturing and distribution company with manufacturing and distribution sites throughout North America and Mexico.    ? Successfully implemented corporate security system for Enterprise One version 8.11 based on Role, Action and Field accesses. Package builds, ESU, Object Management and other CNC functions and testing between different environments using Enterprise One 8.11 including the Spanish language option.  ? Full responsibility for Change Control and all updates to Enterprise One system.  ? Implemented change from using WebSphere to OAS.  ? Coordinated with remote site the setup of the DR site in California. Systems / CNC Administrator ELECTROLUX MAJOR APPLIANCES, INC - Augusta, GA 2004 to 2006 A multi-billion-dollar international home products manufacturing company with manufacturing and distribution sites throughout North/South America and Europe.    ? Successfully implemented corporate security system for Enterprise One version 8.9 based on Role, Action and Field accesses. Package builds, ESU, Object Management and other CNC functions and testing between different environments during an 8.9 implementation and upgrade to 8.10 including adding the French language option. Currently using version 8.10 in conjunction with CRM 8.9.  ? Implemented ChangePoint Time / Project Management software tool on time and under budget along with full administrative and reporting metrics responsibilities.  ? Management of the hardware replacement and software upgrade of the Tivoli Management System on an RS6000 running AIX.  ? Coordinate disparate teams to successfully complete DR switch testing and recovery. Systems / CNC Administrator SCHENECTADY INTERNATIONAL - New York, NY 1992 to 2003 Schenectady International is a global supplier of industrial chemicals, resins, and imaging products, with subsidiary companies in 13 countries and 22 large-scale production sites.    ? Responsible for the strategic management, administration, and support of the company's enterprise-wide ERP systems while successfully adhering to approved budgets and projected timeframes.  ? Participated in scheduling and managing jobs, printers, and queues, building and deploying packages to clients, performing package installs on terminal servers, and managing security systems for more than 400 end-users.  ? Performed a wide range of IT project management tasks including project oversight, team supervision, strategic planning, resource management, scheduling, budgeting, and project status reporting.  ? Provided level one support and maintained application and terminal server synchronization with corporate subsidiaries, affiliates, and production sites in North America and Europe.  ? Collaborated with user community and technical staff to plan implementation and upgrade strategies, clarify administrative details, identify priorities, and resolve project-related problems.  ? Perform a broad range of administrative tasks Including user group and profile configurations, system security management, object modification, configuration, and synchronization, report and batch version control, printer and queue management, data dictionary maintenance, application and electronic software updates, and upgrades.  ? Function as a technical liaison, facilitator, and resource that others look to for answers, solutions, and guidance.  ? Participated in the high-level design, development, and support of RPGII-based systems prior to becoming the company's Technical ERP Administrator for their new integrated business information management system. Education BA degree in INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS Accounting BARUCH COLLEGE - Manhattan, NY 1990 Skills Sql server, Sql server 2008, Sql server 2008 r2, Oracle, Sql