Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer - TECHNICOLOR - Sunset Gower Studios Los Angeles, CA Work Experience Systems Engineer TECHNICOLOR - Sunset Gower Studios - Los Angeles, CA November 2017 to Present Drive VFX business ahead in Software and hardware. Primary systems support for the VFX business, 15 flame artists, 35 CG Artists and the Management staff. Help direct and support 4 remote engineers while aligning the systems with Toronto and London.  • Planned and developed future hardware needs for the local group. Growing with  tight timelines on setting up new workstations and servers. This includes setting  up render farms on time and under budget.  • Built a VFX worldwide team between Toronto, London and Los Angeles. This  included workstations and servers sharing OS and a shared production network.  • Installed software on a central VFX server. VMware for license servers, management and license updates.  • Managed the VFX flame Artist during software updates and during new  hardware testing. Systems Engineer MOVING PICTURE COMPANY - Culver City, CA February 2014 to November 2017 Primary responsibility is to be the full systems support to the Film business in LA.  Personally supported 50+users. The departments include ART, VR, previs / postvis, screening room and film production staff, Producers, coordinators and new business.  Very experienced in setting up remote film teams.  • Supported no less than 15 people working around the US. Each remote group  was setup with a Linux server for software licenses, server storage and jobs  pipeline services including back up.    • Developed new workstation images for the various departments, upgrading and swapping out machines.  • Created new users and permissions per job and would give orientation of MPC  jobs and pipeline.  • Trained and supervised production assistants to help with engineering needs.  • Worked directly with the Executive Director for Film to plan for future Jobs, pertaining to hardware needs and artist deployments. Systems Engineer METHOD STUDIOS - Santa Monica, CA September 2007 to February 2014 Installation of Avid and Autodesk video and audio hardware. Built, installed and supported the 2d /3d workstations. User account creation and management.  Preventative maintenance and Configuration on all VTRs and signal generators.  • Charged with Calibration of all client facing compositing and editing bays and helped support C03 with Barco projector calibration.  • Main contact for flame and editing bay troubleshooting and upgrades. Systems Administrator RADIUM INC - Santa Monica, CA March 2005 to September 2007 Supported the Flame and infernos, Installed and supported Microsoft windows 2003 servers and XP workstations. Including the daily support for production staff. LAN / WAN troubleshooting. Machine room support for VTR troubleshooting and installation of rental VTRs.  ·     Upgraded the production facility to cat6.  Video Engineer DIGITAL DOMAIN INC - Venice, CA May 2002 to March 2005 Terminated, installed and tested audio and video when requested by Production.  Supported the tape operators on encoding quality for DVD creation for sales and demos.  Responsible for the CRT calibrations for the facility. First contact for Machine room to flame connectivity. Including VTR support for flame ingest and output. Education General Coursework Fresno City College Skills CALIBRATION, LINUX, AUTODESK, DHCP, DNS Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/ron-rebensdorf Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Hardware Knowledge  • DI projectors, Lenovo, HP, Supermicro, Polycom, steaming media and playback  servers, Avid and Autodesk, Routing systems, Video Tape Recorders, Photo  Research, Mellanox, Extreme.  • Networking and switch management, setting up remote groups with production  tools and managing licenses, calibration of display devices, VR hardware and  setup.  Software  • Adobe, Autodesk, PXE, DNS, DHCP, AD groups and permissions, Clonezilla,  Acronis, ticketing systems for progress and follow up on resolutions, Foundry,  NoMachine, Mocha, Vray Next, Pixologic, Symantec, Nvidia, full suite of  production tools.  • Linux, OSX and Microsoft proficient.