Sales Representative Sales Representative Top Ranked Sales Professional With Great Experience/Ready to Help Boost Your Sales. Columbus, OH I am a dependable, resourceful sales professional with 4 years of successfully exceeding sales goals and company quotas. I consistently lead my store and company district in conversion rate, sales revenue and profit contribution. I possess strong customer service and prospecting skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sales Representative Sears Holdings Corporation - Columbus, OH November 2014 to Present 1. Service customers within home appliances; maintain knowledge of products and use this knowledge to educate customers on options available.  2. Assist customers by utilizing consultative selling practices to identify customer needs and provide appropriate solutions.  3. Understand website navigation, and proactively leverages technology in order to facilitate the customer experience.  4. Maintain current knowledge of merchandise lines; product features, benefits and availability.  5. Maximize profit by driving credit, Rewards and Protection Agreements.  6. Process customer transactions in the Point of Sale system.  7. Discover appropriate ways for up selling by asking costumers the right questions.  8. Educate costumers on the importance of having their appliances protected; explain how does protection plan work.  Highlights:  1. Consistently maintained the highest yearly sales revenue and contribution rate per hour.  2. Continuously, exceeded the monthly sales target.  3. Ranked as top 10 nationwide in protection plans. Training Systems Administrator Qatar Petroleum - Doha May 2007 to January 2014 1. Ensured functionality of the learning management system (LMS).  2. Provided high quality customer support and helpdesk to QP employees.  3. Provided quality assurance checks on all new system upload.  4. Trouble -shooted e-learning courses-related issues regarding system accessibility and navigation issues. Systems instructor NEW HORIZONS - Doha March 2004 to March 2007 • Developed and delivered various training programs.  • Evaluated the effectiveness of subjects and courses.  • Systems instructor for the following courses:  1. MCSE (Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer) Diploma.  2. A+ course (Operating Systems & Hardware).  3. MCDST (Microsoft Certified Desktop Technician ).  4. Microsoft office courses. Education High school or equivalent Aleppo September 1998 to September 1999 Skills Microsoft office. (10+ years), Customer Service (10+ years), Time management (10+ years), Rapport Building (10+ years), Prospecting (4 years) Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (MCSE) Microsoft Certified Systems Administrator (MCSA) Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) A+ Certified Microsoft Certified Desktop Support Technician Microsoft Certified Trainer