Systems Engineer Sr. <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Sr. Edmond, OK Work Experience Systems Engineer Sr. INTEGRIS Health - Oklahoma City, OK October 2008 to Present ·    Responsible for Cisco UCS operations.  ·    Responsible for VMware vCenter operations.  ·    Designed and implemented VMware vRealize suite.  ·    Designed and implemented Service-Now integration with VMware VRA to automate server build and VMware vCenter functions.  ·    Lead Engineer for Unified Communications. Responsible for Microsoft Lync\Skype for Business, Avaya SIP, Avaya Management, Avaya Session Border controller, and engineering integration between these applications and the Avaya phone system.  ·    Designed and maintained the UC group’s production and test Virtual infrastructure.  ·    Built VM servers for group projects  ·    Designed and implemented Microsoft Lync\Skype for Business to increase company collaboration and save cost by not having to buy Citrix WebEx accounts.  ·    Automated Skype and Active directory task using PowerShell.  ·    Created VB.net application to replace multiple products for Help Desk to manage Active Directory accounts through a single interface.  ·    Responsible for support of over 1600 physical and Virtual servers.  ·    Responsible for all aspects of Active Directory including security, group policy and account maintenance.  ·    Designed new infrastructure for Blackberry enterprise and Upgraded from 4.2 to 5.3. Migrated 600 users to the new platform.  ·    Designed and implemented Blackberry MVS to save a substantial amount of money due to not having to have a service contract on each cell phone. A.G.Edwards\Wachovia August 2008 to Present Technology Engineer October 2000 to March 2008 • Patch and validate security compliance on 1,500 Windows servers  • Performed infrastructure and 3rd level support resolution for 1,500 Windows Servers.  • Product Manager for Microsoft Automated Deployment Services (ADS). Decreased build time for servers by 60% by fully automating the build process.  • Implemented virtualization technology using VMWare and Microsoft Softgrid  • Research and propose opportunities for improvement within the Windows infrastructure.  • Research new technologies and evaluate products.  • Product Manager for Distribution Products (HP Radia, Open Deploy and SMS). Responsible for Vendor contracts, purchases and maintenance agreements.  • Technical lead for Enterprise Distribution and Provisioning. Determined enterprise direction for all products in this area.  • Evaluated HP Radia for enterprise distribution solution. Wrote enterprise Design documentation. Designed, implemented and supported HP Radia for Distribution across the enterprise  • Technical lead for projects involving Windows Server and XP related activities.  • Coached associate level employees in engineering products and methodologies.  • Collaborate with IT analysts and operations groups to gathers technical requirements.  • Design multiple domain Active directory structure for new test lab environment.    Technical Specialist  • Develop client images and Installed clients Ghost.  • Develop, test, and distribute new software packages using wise installer and SMS.  • Maintained SMS infrastructure and clients.  • Developed deployment schedules based on firm and department needs.  • Developed web based applications using asp.net /SQL Server 2000.  • Designed SQL database tables for applications. Systems Administrator Triple I Consulting March 1999 to October 2000 • Installed, Configured, and Maintained 30 servers using multiple subnets and domains. Software configured on servers include Microsoft Windows NT 4, Microsoft Windows 2000, Remote Access, SMS 2, IIS Web Server, DHCP, WINS, Exchange 5.5, and Backups (using Veritas Backup Exec).  • Installed and configured 500 client computers running Microsoft Windows NT Workstation, Microsoft Windows 98, Microsoft Office 2000, Lotus Notes, Microsoft Outlook 2000, DB2 client, Virus protection software.  • Provided reports on existing hardware using SMS.  • Developed client images and Installed clients using Norton Ghost.  • Developed and tested Windows 2000 with Exchange 2000 environment using Research and Development network.  • Tested, proposed, and implemented Hyena software to use for network management. This software increased productivity by decreasing the number of tools necessary for system administrator to manage the network.    SYSTEMS PROFICIENCY  Hardware  Dell, HP and IBM workstation and server class systems    Programming\Scripting  VBScript, VB.Net, PowerShell    Software  Vmware, Windows Server, Windows 7, Microsoft SQL, Microsoft Exchange, Microsoft SCCM, Microsoft ADS, HP Radia, Microsoft Office, Microsoft Lync, Microsoft Skype for Business, Blackberry Enterprise, Avaya System Manger, Avaya Session Manager, Avaya Session Boarder controller Education Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist Baker College - Flint, MI Skills System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory, Vmware (7 years), VMWare vRealize (2 years), Infoblox (2 years), Microsoft Skype (3 years) Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY  More than 20 years of experience in all aspects of system administration and engineering Microsoft operating systems. VMware vrealize architect for 3 years. Lead architect for 6 years' in the field of Unified communications.