Consulting Engineer Consulting Engineer Lena, WI To use my skills, experience and adaptability to obtain a systems administration position where I am constantly challenged. My greatest strength is my ability to walk into a new environment and be functional immediately. I am quick to learn and adapt to new situations, configurations and technologies. Work Experience Consulting Engineer Heartland Technology Group - Little Chute, WI July 2014 to Present Role(s)  Administration  Maintenance  Customer Support    Environment  Windows Server 2008/2012/2016, Windows 7/8/10, Vmware 5.x/6.x    Skills/Tools  Active Directory, VMWare, AS/400, Veeam, Customer support    • Manage small, focused projects for school districts, small-medium businesses and local government entities  • Provide customer support during sales to delivery timeline  • Developed and documented backup systems  • Maintained and documented Active Directory infrastructures  • Provided L2 support and participated in on call schedule  • Planned, built, maintained and documented VMWare infrastructures Systems Administrator Xerox, Clark County Government - Neillsville, WI October 2011 to Present Role(s)  Administration  Maintenance  Customer Support    Environment  Windows Server 2003, 2008, Windows XP/7    Skills/Tools  Exchange 2003, Active Directory, VMware ESX, AS/400, Microsoft Office    • Build and manage WSUS infrastructure  • Developed and documented backup system  • Maintained and documented Active Directory Group Policy  • Provided L2 support and participated in on call schedule  • Maintained and documented VMWare ESX environment  • Began implementation of server and desktop lifecycle planning scheme.  • Transitioned Exchange 2003 to Exchange 2010 Systems Administrator Tyco Fire Protection Products - Marinette, WI January 2011 to October 2011 Role(s)  Administration  Maintenance  Support    Environment  Windows Server 2003, 2008, Windows XP/7    Skills/Tools  Exchange 2003, Active Directory, SharePoint, Microsoft Office    • Member of a team executing a domain migration of about 20,000 objects  • Developed and tested migration process  • Communicated migration schedule and progress to corporate project members  • Supplied resources for post migration support  • Managed Active Directory objects and containers as necessary  • Developed a Windows 7 kiosk configuration for SAP kiosks. Senior Systems Engineer TechNosis, Inc - Green Bay, WI June 2010 to December 2010 Role(s)  Administration  Maintenance  Support    Environment  Windows 2003 Small Business Server    Skills/Tools  Exchange 2003, LogMeIn, Astaro, Active Directory, Quicken, QuickBooks, SharePoint, Office, iPhone    • Engineered and delivered scaled down enterprise solutions to small businesses.  • Managed 20-25 individual client servers.  • Installed, configured and optimized Exchange 2003 servers.  • Installed and configured Astaro security products.  • Integrated Windows Small Business Server and migrated Active Directory infrastructure.  • Provided end user help desk support for 100+ users. Consultant ZyQuest - De Pere, WI August 2009 to December 2009 Role(s)  Maintenance    Environment  Windows, Citrix, Notes    Skills/Tools  Active Directory    • Performed PC upgrades according to schedule at customer sites throughout the Midwest and North Carolina. There were around 30 pc's in the scope of the project.  • Installed additional printing devices and insured accessibility to them. Consultant Technisource - Itasca, IL July 2009 to October 2009 Role(s)  Administration  Assessment  Maintenance  Support    Environment  Windows, Citrix, Lotus Notes    Skills/Tools  Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, SharePoint, Cisco VOIP, Lotus Notes, SyteLine    • Performed all activities related to dividing a company's IT assets and moving them to three different locations.  • Assessed IT assets, inventoried hardware, negotiated lease contracts, coordinated shipping companies, organized assets according to location, and packed assets for shipping.  • Staged, dismantled, and decommissioned data center. Staged and dismantled networking and telecom infrastructure.  • Created and supported peer to peer network for remaining employees. Senior Systems Engineer TechNosis, Inc - Appleton, WI February 2008 to April 2009 Role(s)  Administration  Maintenance  Support    Environment  Windows 2003 Small Business Server    Skills/Tools  Exchange 2003, LogMeIn, Astaro, Active Directory, Quicken, QuickBooks, SharePoint, Office, iPhone    • Engineered and delivered scaled down enterprise solutions t  • Administered 20-25 individual client servers.  • Provided backups, server maintenance and help desk support for clients.  • Installed, configured and optimized Exchange 2003 servers.  • Installed and configured Astaro security products.  • Integrated Windows Small Business Server and migrated Active Directory infrastructure.  • Provided end user help desk support for 100+ users. Systems Administrator II Plexus Technology Group - Neenah, WI September 1998 to February 2008 Neenah, WI  Product realization company providing electronics design and manufacturing services    Title  Systems Administrator II    Role(s)  Administration  Maintenance Education Associates Degree in Microcomputer Specialist Northeast Wisconsin Technical College - Green Bay, WI Assessments Spreadsheets with Microsoft Excel — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate’s Microsoft Excel knowledge including common tools, PivotTables, conditional & nested formulas, and custom visuals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fbi17qjpmjtevxtj Mechanical Skills: Aptitude — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to understand and apply mechanical concepts and processes. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ghgeuj0ty8q0zjgc Mechanical Skills: Monitoring — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to monitor machine indicators in order to ensure safe and appropriate operation. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/7cdthxhy8dwlxqms Project Management Skills: Budgeting — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to manage project budgets by appropriately allocating and monitoring financial resources. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/8idpt6tb4yjuhnz4 Basic Maintenance and Repair — Highly Proficient August 2019 Performing basic repairs and maintenance for apartment complexes, office buildings, and other facilities. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/x5b-qt7oyutzlsxb Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information • Follow change control, incident response and testing processes for all modifications to network infrastructure.    • Research and makes recommendations on network infrastructure products, services and standards in support of procurement and development efforts as requested by supervisor.    • Anticipate, identify, responds to, and resolve issues with regard to production environment.    • Monitor, analyze and work with principal business unit application users to predict trends for equipment performance, space allocation and data growth.    • Develop, document and maintain operational processes and tasks.    • Maintain and update disaster recovery plan as it relates to systems managed, failover procedures, failback procedures and access rights and requirements.    • Update documentation as system changes occur and keep team members informed of system updates and changes    • Work with/work as the back-up administrator to ensure regular back-ups are performed and tested to ensure that application data is effectively protected.