Systems Architect <span class="hl">Systems</span> Architect Systems Architect - Endurance International Group Work Experience Systems Architect Endurance International Group August 2013 to Present Tech Used: Linux, Puppet, Openstack, Ceph, KVM, LXD, razor, LVS / keepalived, MySQL    ? Deployed and managed small to medium openstack clusters of up to 500+ nodes with high availability  ? Performed a POC of EMC ScaleIO and Ceph and ran benchmarks to estimate and compare cost per IOPS and cost per GB  ? Deployed and managed small Ceph clusters of up to 8 nodes to host virtual machine  volumes via openstack cinder  ? Created a highly available LVS cluster using keepalived to serve package repos, DNS,  openstack APIs and puppet  ? Deployed and managed highly available puppet in a multiple master configuration  ? Automated OS installations using razor, kickstart and preseed  ? Configured and used LXD backed by ZFS for running containers for internal use cases  ? Setup a metrics collection and reporting platform using influxdb as a backend for grafana  via graphite-api Systems Administrator / Architect Directi November 2003 to August 2013 Tech Used (Current): cobbler, puppet, apache, mysql, nagios, bash, python  Tech Used (Defunct): serveriron, tomcat, slony, asterisk, qmail, C    ? Automated OS installations using cobbler and kickstart  ? Deployed and managed linux shared web hosting servers using Apache, PHP/fastcgi and MySQL  ? Wrote various puppet modules for configuring apache, mysql, postgresql, slony, system  users and various others  ? Wrote incremental backup scripts using bash and rsync  ? Setup and managed nagios with plugins, eventhandlers and performance tuning  ? Setup and managed a highly available java web application using a hardware load  balancer (serveriron), tomcat and postgresql  ? Setup and managed asterisk open source IP-PBX to provide PSTN and VOIP services for the entire organization  ? Built and maintained a web based interface using js/php/perl/MySQL for users to manage their SIP phone extensions, voicemail, call records, conference calls etc  ? Setup and managed qmail, courier-imap, ezmlm, clamav and horde for shared email  hosting services  ? Wrote a qmail log file parser and bandwidth usage calculator in C  ? Setup and managed ejabberd for internal chat in the organization  ? Wrote a jabber bot program in python using the jabbery.py library Education Post Graduate Diploma in Software Technology National Centre for Software Technology 2004 to 2005 B.E. in Electronics and Telecommunications Pravara Rural Engineering College - Loni, Pune, IN 1999 to 2003 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/deepakbhat81