IT Trainer, G-3 IT Trainer, G-3 IT Trainer, G-3 - 7 Army Operations Center, Pentagon Upper Marlboro, MD Work Experience IT Trainer, G-3 7 Army Operations Center, Pentagon September 2018 to Present • Provides an array of different training classes to all Military, Civilian and Contracted employees of the Army G-3/5/7 organization.  • These classes consist of beginner and intermediate level training for Microsoft SharePoint 2013 and 2016.  • Develops, maintains, and updates all aforementioned training materials, which are specifically tailored for "best practices" on the Army G-3/5/7 SharePoint Bolte Portal.  • Manages the Army SharePoint Portal Training Site where Army G-3/5/7 Portal users can register for training and access all training materials.  • Monitor SIPR and NIPR team mailbox and monitor BMC Remedy for related issues  • Grants contribute, view only, read, full control, etc. Permissions to members for various reasons  • Creates and maintains a myriad Standard Operations Procedures (SOP) Army Enterprise Service Desk National Guard March 2018 to Present • Provide enterprise management, operations, engineering, maintenance and support services for the Army National Guard enterprise, including the GuardNet XXI Wide Area Network, GKO, Active Directory and Exchange 2003, security operations, service desk, and video/audio conferencing services.  • Act as the front-line customer facing candidate communicates via telephone and/or email with customers to troubleshoot, resolve/escalate technical issues. Consistently demonstrate professional and superior customer service and interpersonal skills while identification, prioritization, resolution or escalation of issues within SLA guidelines.  • Perform troubleshooting, resolution or escalation of email requests applications  • Proactively create, improve Knowledge Management Articles and adopt best practices  • Maintain a conscious level of Situational Awareness to update peers, management and other Tiers  • Adhere to department standards, service level agreements and process and procedures  • Perform ad-hoc assignments not necessarily detailed in the job description  • Provide first line response for users requiring assistance with information technology issues and problems  • Track issues to resolution updating the internal knowledgebase and/or communicating lessons learned with relevant business units  • Knowledge of the ITIL methodology, Incident Management, Problem and Change Management processes  • Escalate more involved problems to the appropriate Tier 2 and Tier 3 support teams  • Update daily status reports and shift turnover reports  • Act as a liaison between customers and technical escalation teams to provide a single view to the organization for information technology related problems Help Desk Technical Support II Government Accountability Office January 2018 to February 2018 * Reimage, diagnose and restock Dell/HP laptops  * Provide technical support for different field offices  * Update inventory in Asset Manager to reflect accurate location of all assets  * Create excel sheets and pallets of equipment no longer needed at GAO  * Package and ship equipment to different field offices CCTV Technician CCTV, Kastle Systems June 2017 to November 2017 • Maintained services and repairs to Genetec, Milestone, Kastle Video, and legacy stand-alone video surveillance systems.  • Maintained and protect access to customer buildings.  • Patch/Crimp 5e cable  • Works well with ISP's such as Cox, Comcast, Verizon, in port management, etc.  • Assist with training new employees on VMS. United Rentals Boom Lift, Kastle Video,  • Travels locally and great amount of distance (Richmond, West Virginia etc.)  • Knowledge of Networking equipment, Computer components, network devices including routers, switches and wireless radios, and VMS systems Jr. Systems Administrator, Lycee Rochambeau Added August 2016 to October 2016 deleted users, mac address's, to Active Directory  • Installed/added HP printers to the network manually with the proper use of TCP/IP  • Added laptops/desktops to domain  • Working with co-workers on same document in real time in O365  • Imaged and deployed PC's using (Windows Deployment Services) Server Manager  • Added, /Whitelisted, devices in Cisco Meraki  • Installed French based applications  • Setup and Configured Cisco Any-Connect VPN for Administrators and Teachers  • Properly used of Application EASE US/ duplicate hard-drives Customer Service Support Specialist Tier 3 Hughes Network Systems October 2015 to May 2016 • Troubleshoot cases, creates dispatches, and works with Hughes customers to resolve their technical issues (Verizon, AT&T, CenturyLink, Cox, Etc.)  • Main job function is to thoroughly investigate terrestrial sites (Perform Deep Dives)  • Completed accurate documentation of all troubleshooting steps is required  • Worked closely with Network Access Providers, ILEC (Incumbent Local Exchange Carrier) and Hughes  • Versed in enterprise networks and must be familiar with troubleshooting routers, switches, modems. Provide advance customer relations support to SME (Small-Medium Enterprise) account customers and Government account customers  • Enter data in the ticketing system (CRM) Customer Relation Manager  • Identifying when the Transports were active or disconnected Help Desk Tier Department Of Energy June 2015 to October 2015 • Identified, prioritized and resolved reported problems including data, account administration, desktop, included application issues.  • Configured Apple IPhones 5c, 5s, 6, 6+ and IPads to an Encryption Email Application (GOOD)  • Setup Entrust/Encryption on Desktops and mobile devices  • Research, resolve, and respond to end-user issues/problems received via email, telephone, or escalations, and provide support on IPhones  • Used TeamViewer to remote into users PC's  • Added users to domain and Office 365, Download and Install Office 365 and Setup Email Application Support Specialist, Quality Technology Tier September 2014 to May 2015 • Application Support Specialist for all systems supported by the XOSC.  • Assisted with technical and policy related inquiries via email pertaining to the enrollment of consumers and through the Healthcare.gov enrollment system.  • Assisted with inquires for other ACA related Systems such as the CMS Enterprise Portal, Eligibility & Enrollment, EIDM, HIOS/RBIS, and other miscellaneous systems.  • Assisted with password resets and creation of user accounts for systems such as EIDM, CALT, SERTS, SERVIS, and zONE.  • Utilized the Remedy System for ticket intake of all inquiries received all a daily basis. Train and assist other Tier 1.5, 2, and 3 Customer Service Representatives on the Remedy tickets system and how to respond to email inquiries from system users.  • Researched aging tickets rerouted back from tier 2 and/or 3 external support teams & reassign tickets appropriately for all systems such as CMS Enterprise Portal, Eligibility & Enrollment, EIDM, HIOS/RBIS, HUB/DSH, and other miscellaneous systems through the XOSC.  • Properly used entered PII into Share Point    Small Office Home Office (SOHO) & NewWay IT Solutions (Class)  • Analyze and Monitor packets Utilizing Wireshark  • Administer Avast Antivirus IDS/IPS  • SQL Server or comparable SQL relational database management server (Training)  • Oracle. SQL & HTML (Training)  • Linux (Training)  • Database backup and recovery (Training) Sr. Field Engineer USPTO May 2014 to September 2014 - Jan 2017 - April 2017  • Manage Federal Government employees RSA secure ID access and renewals in a time sensitive manner, supporting and helping troubleshoot daily issues and stratify users concerns and answer access questions.  • Troubleshooting Skills and technical aptitude used with HP products and various software  • Provide technical product training and basic user functionality training to customer base when required  • Assigned administration rights to users that had permissions  • Data Entry into ticketing system Remedy  • Mapped users to specific network drivers  • Entering user's information into RSA console  • Use Active Directory for finding users and creating/disabling accounts  • Assigning user's accounts in RSA console  • Assigning HP Laser Printers to Workstations/IP addresses Education Langston University 2010 Diploma DR. Henry A. Wise High School 2009 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, NETWORKING, REMEDY, VIRTUAL MACHINE, Team Building, Microsoft Office, Time Management