Systems/Network Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span>/Network <span class="hl">Administrator</span> North Olmsted, OH I am an IT professional with over 20 years of experience in infrastructure, security, networking, programming, database administration, project management, and global cross-collaboration. I am looking to join a security operations team to utilize my broad IT experience to contribute in the overall cyber security efforts of an innovative organization. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems/Network Administrator Constant Aviation - Cleveland, OH August 2018 to Present • Led the implementation of Mimecast Email Security. Responsible for evaluation of multiple solutions and recommend the best product to senior management.  • Implement network QoS to improve reliability of communication with critical systems.  • Administer Office 365 environment. IT Specialist Department of Defense - Cleveland, OH April 2018 to August 2018 • Led the efforts to establish a Change Control Board to assess and prioritize system changes and trouble reports. Assist with security impact analysis of change requests.  • Assist with Risk Management Framework accreditation of system by providing artifacts as supporting documentation such as access control policy and system interface guide. Supervisor, Information Systems Engineering Giesecke & Devrient America, Inc. - Twinsburg, OH January 2013 to April 2018 Giesecke & Devrient America, Inc - Technology company that safeguard reliable transactions and authenticity. Manufactures and personalizes Visa, Mastercard, American Express, and Discover cards for top tier banks. Also manufactures secure ID cards for government and drivers' license programs for various states.    • In this position, I have been involved in the decision-making, design, and delivery of IT solutions to solve new business and technical initiatives.  • Supervise a team of Systems Engineers to manage the infrastructure and security while supporting day-to-day operations.  • Maintain security compliance with regulatory standards (PCI, ISO 27001, ISO 9001), company standards, and customer requirements. Participate in annual audit reviews.  • Designed and implemented Pitney Bowes Connect:Right Mailer for address verification to meet new customer requirements. The entire solution was implemented in six weeks.  • Implemented an online customer portal using RHEL, Oracle database, F5 load balancer, Citrix cluster, Netapp SAN, Brocade fiber channel switches, and Safenet HSM to support new business initiative.  • Expanded network infrastructure by adding new Cisco 1921 and ISR 4421 routers to support various B2B client connectivity.  • Designed and built Sys log servers using CentOS 6 Rsyslog to collect security events for monitoring and SIEM.  • Designed and built new card processing network to increase production capacity. Implemented new Active Directory domain, file servers, job database server using MS SQL, Checkpoint 4400 NG firewalls, Cisco 2960 switches, Safenet HSM server for cryptographic keys. This projected was completed in only 4 months.  • Manage high-security infrastructure to ensure secure, reliable operation of systems and networks.  * Remediate security vulnerabilities and internal/external penetration test results by reviewing and prioritizing scan results with Information Security team.  * Configure and manage syslog events for QRadar SIEM correlation and notification.  * Implement and administer Sophos endpoint security through AV, HIPS, encryption, and device control.  * Establish secure communication channels with external customers via VPN tunnel, SFTP, IBM Connect:Direct, FTPS, HTTPS, and necessary firewall rules.  * Manage server and client backup through Acronis.  * Configure high-availability of servers through hardware redundancy, load balancing, and clustering.    • Manage cryptographic keys for secure processing of payment and transit cards. Responsibilities include:  * Cryptographic key exchange with customers using RSA, TDEA, and AES.  * Ensure cryptographic hardware and software comply with FIPS 140-2 Level 3 requirements.  * Keep up-to-date documentation of key management policies and procedures.    • Product and customer on-boarding. Responsibilities include:  * Work with Product Management team to setup the proprietary production systems for flash loading of chip card products. Includes setup of profiles for QA tool to ensure quality production.  * Work with Product Management team or Sales to on-board financial institutions to specific chip card products. Includes custom setup of production systems, QA tool profile setup, and creation of test cards.  * Requires extensive knowledge of chip types, chip OS, crypto keys, supply chain, and operational requirements.    • Support day-to-day operations of EMV chip card personalization. Responsibilities include:  * Install, configure, update, and test of different software systems for data processing, data encryption, key management system, letter shop printing system, and mailing/courier shipping system.  * Ensure security and confidentiality of data in the entire production process.  * Ensure smooth daily operation of the data processing systems and production systems.  * Collaborate with R&D, engineering, and support teams globally through Jira and Confluence. Senior Systems Administrator Giesecke & Devrient America, Inc. January 2009 to January 2013 I successfully led 2 major projects during this tenure:  • In 2009, the company was experiencing tremendous growth. We expanded to an adjacent building in order to increase capacity and meet customer demands. I was responsible for implementing the entire network and telecommunication infrastructure in the new building.  • In 2012, the company expanded again to support the US migration to EMV chip cards. I managed the IT portion of the "Golden Gate" project to implement all the IT systems to support the new personalization bureau; which includes systems and network infrastructure, network design, budgeting, and scheduling resources from Germany, UK, Canada, and US.    Other responsibilities include:  • Create system and technical documentation of production systems.  • Implement and administer Lumension Device Control for system security and data loss prevention.  • Manage hardware and software support contracts.  • Perform risk assessments of critical IT systems and submit report to IT director. Programmer/Analyst, Systems Administrator Giesecke & Devrient America, Inc. June 2003 to January 2009 While performing the duties of the Systems Administrator below, I took additional responsibilities to expand my domain and gain the skills of business analysis and project management. I took over the development of Order Management  System which provided me experience on the following:    • Gather and analyze business requirements through user collaboration and discuss change request prioritization with executive management.  • Draft, present, implement, and document changes to stakeholders and management.  • Developed the Order Management System in Visual Basic 6, MS SQL, and Crystal Reports.  • Created various Crystal Reports to support Sales, Customer Service, Production Scheduling, Operations, Shipping, Accounting/Finance, and Quality Assurance.  • Managed SQL Server databases from design, administration, development, and support.  • Developed Process Improvement Request system to support the following ISO programs: 9001, 27001, 14001.  • Developed Test Report system to handle R&D project tasks and reporting.  • Promoted to Senior Systems Administrator on January 2009. Systems Administrator Giesecke & Devrient America, Inc. October 1997 to June 2003 As the only IT staff on site, I supported all the users, hardware, and software for the site. I successfully led 2 major  migrations: from NT to Active Directory domain, and Exchange to Lotus Notes, while supporting the day-to-day  activities of the business and going to school to obtain my bachelor's degree.    • Provide PC hardware and software support to 150 users.  • Manage Windows NT domain.  • Led the migration from Windows NT 4 to Windows 2003 Active Directory.  • Led the migration of Microsoft Exchange 5.5 to Lotus Notes 5 email system.  • Upgraded 3Com layer 2 switches to Foundry FastIron layer 3 switches.  • Ensure computer and information security policies and procedures are followed as defined by the company and regulatory standards such as Visa, Mastercard, and American Express.  • Manage Microsoft, Symantec software licensing for entire location.  • Manage support contracts with different hardware and software vendors.  • Manage system backups using Symantec Backup Exec and off-site tape rotation for disaster recovery.  • Liaison to telecom analyst for PBX and mobile phone support. Education BA in Business Administration and Information Systems Cleveland State University May 2003 Skills Windows Server 2008/2012, Active Directory, CentOS 6/7, Citrix XenServer, Sophos Endpoint Security, MS SQL Server 2005/2008, Networking, TCP/IP, Firewalls - Checkpoint and Juniper SRX, SSH, FTPS, HTTPS, PKI, digital certificates, HSM Certifications/Licenses Security+ July 2018 to July 2021