Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Lead Systems Engineer - USAgencies Gonzales, LA To apply my expertise in system configuration and administration and work towards an Information Systems managerial position    HARDWARE/SOFTWARE SKILLS    Microsoft Certified Professional NT 4.0  Microsoft Certified Professional Windows 2000  Microsoft Exchange Administration  Microsoft Active Directory Administration  A+ Certification  Printek Printer Certified Kyocera Laser Certified  AS/400 Certified  Hewlett Packard Laser Specialist    PRINTER REPAIR EXPERIENCE    Hewlett Packard IBM Okidata NEC Kyocera  Printek Dataproducts Genicom Star    PC REPAIR EXPERIENCE    IBM Compaq Amdek Everex  DFI Tandon Zenith Work Experience Systems Engineer Avenu Insights and Analytics - Baton Rouge, LA September 2018 to Present Multi-Domain Active Directory administration for 600 user, 100 server network.   Vmware  6.5 administration.  Hyper-V administration .  SCCM 5.0 administration  Server and Network monitoring via SCOM   VEEAM Backup and Recovery Lead Systems Engineer USAgencies March 2007 to Present Supported and Maintained 150 server network.  Active Directory and Exchange Administration for 600 plus users  VMWare Administration  Captaris Rightfax administrator  EMC Networker backup administrator  RestartIT backup administration  Administered full suite of Altiris applications including Helpdesk, Patch management, Monitor and Deployment solutions. Systems Administrator Stewart Enterprises - Jefferson, LA April 2004 to March 2007 Performed daily Network Administrative tasks to ensure reliable network operation. Administered Exchange server and user mailboxes. Maintained network server hardware and software. Handled helpdesk cases involving network administration issues. Monitored network and IBM AS/400 data backups. Maintained workstations on 600-user network. Provided both hardware and software support for users and desktop support team. Systems Administrator Benecom Computer Co - New Orleans, LA June 2001 to April 2004 Performed onsite and remote network administration for Benecom customers. Responsible for system administration and help desk support for Benecom network. Altro Limited Inc - Alexandria, VA September 1998 to April 2004 onsite system administrator New Orleans Public Belt Railroad February 2000 to April 2001 Sales Support, Designed, Configured, Priced, Purchased, Assembled and Installed computer networking equipment.  Created and implemented procedures for service department and shipping and receiving. Created and implemented procedures for Inventory Control. Created and implemented RMA procedures. Scheduled and performed in house and on site service work. Configured, installed and maintained IBM and IBM compatible MicroComputers. Installed and maintained System 36 and AS/400 Terminals and Printers. Installed and maintained IBM, Okidata, Epson, Panasonic, Star, Genicom and Data Products Dot Matrix Printers. Installed and maintained Hewlett Packard, panasonic and IBM Laser printers. Certified As/400 Repair, Printek Printer Repair, and Kyocera Laser Repair. Onsite for Texaco - New Orleans, LA June 1997 to September 1998 New Orleans, Louisiana  Responsible for maintaining all hardware onsite at Texaco - New Orleans. Created and implemented procedures for service department, warranty parts ordering, replacements and returns. Responsible for parts inventory control. Installed and configured all computers and printers.  (6-97 - 9-98    Benecom Computer Co. New Orleans, Louisiana  Created and implemented procedures for service department and shipping and receiving. Created and implemented procedures for Inventory Control. Created and implemented RMA procedures. Purchased all parts for Service  Department. Scheduled and performed in house and on site service work. Configured, installed and maintained IBM and IBM compatible MicroComputers. Installed and maintained System 36 and AS/400 Terminals and Printers. Installed and maintained IBM, Okidata, Epson, Panasonic, Star, Genicom and Data Products Dot Matrix Printers. Installed and maintained Hewlett Packard, panasonic and IBM Laser printers. Certified As/400 Repair, Printek Printer Repair, and Kyocera Laser Repair. Technical Electronics - Harahan, LA June 1991 to June 1997 Serviced IBM, Compaq, Zenith and Everx Cpmputers. Serviced IBM, NED Okidata, Epson and Hewlett Packard Printers. Installed and configured WordPerfect, Lotus, Dbase, Supercalc, Microstation, Enable, Mace, Procomm and Vista Com software packages. Service Manager January 1994 to January 1995 Entre' Computer Center - Metairie, LA January 1990 to June 1991 Serviced and Maintained Compaq, IBM Amdek, Tandon and AST Personal Computers and Peripheral. Serviced and Maintained IBM, NEC Okidata, Epson, and Hewlett Packard Printers.  (1-88 - 1-90) Education Airco Technical Institute - New Orleans, LA 2018 to 2020 St. Bernard High School - Saint Bernard, LA 1980 Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer Herzing College - Metairie, LA