Business Manager Business Manager Business Manager Baltimore, MD 20 years of Business Operations experience:   • Bookkeeping and Financial Statement Preparation  • Payroll, Benefits, and Human Resources Management  • IT Management, including computer and network installation and maintenance  • Regulatory compliance for medical practices, including OIG, HIPAA and OSHA  • Office Design, Space Planning and Project Management Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Business Manager Retina Specialists - Baltimore, MD November 1996 to August 2019 A three-physician medical practice specializing in treating diseases of the retina and vitreous.  • Prepare monthly financial statements, manage cash and fixed assets, analyze business data.  • Supervise purchasing and accounts payable.  • Coordinate and implement a comprehensive benefits program, including 401(k) and cafeteria plans.  • Support all aspects of computer network (six servers and over 80 computers and tablets), including wide-area networking, website and remote access for telecommuting. Installation and configuration of hardware and software, including servers and peripherals.  • Coordinate responses to medical records requests and regulatory audits.  • Helped to implement several new practice management and electronic health records systems.  • Designed and supervised seven new office buildouts: directed the move to new offices in 1997, 2000, 2005, and 2013, and office expansions in 2006 and 2015.  • Performed all payroll functions, including preparation of employer tax returns 1998 - 2015. After payroll was outsourced in 2015, submit payroll information to provider.  • Participated in six clinical research protocols; certified in refraction and visual acuity testing. Controller/ Systems Administrator The Retina Institute of Maryland - Baltimore, MD March 1989 to November 1996 A medical practice with five physicians specializing in treatments for retina and vitreous diseases.  • Coordinated startup of The Retina Institute of Maryland.  • Administered three research grants and provided data analysis for two other projects.  • Developed and performed a protocol for extracts used in surgery.  • Designed and managed Novell Netware network with 28 workstations.  • Participated in the design of the systems infrastructure for the Institute's new offices, 1992.  • Prepared monthly financial statements and managed cash and fixed assets, payroll and employer tax returns.  • Supervised purchasing and accounts payable; performed analysis on referral patterns and financial ratios.  • Support for network, word processing, database, and spreadsheet applications. Education Master of Administrative Science in Administrative Science Johns Hopkins University - Baltimore, MD Bachelor of Arts in Biology in Biology University of Virginia - Charlottesville, VA