Dedicated Systems Administrator Dedicated <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Dedicated Systems Administrator - Remote Desktop Hampton, VA Work Experience Dedicated Systems Administrator Remote Desktop October 2008 to Present Timbuktu,  Aerodyne Corporation/HP/NASA Langley Research Center, Hampton VA. Clarify,  • Solely responsible for resolving branch and emergency operations center's end-user TrackIT,  hardware, software, and network related issues desk side, email, or via telephone on a 24- Remedy,  hour basis. Sharepoint,  • Assist staff in migration program with the installation, configuration, and ongoing usability of PC Anywhere,  PCs and Mac's, various mobile devices, peripheral equipment, and software within Entrust,  established standards and guidelines. Entourage,  • Maintain system security by installing security patches and other necessary upgrades. Thunderbird,  • Monitor and resolve problem ticket queue to ensure all assigned tasks are completed within Veritas,  specified metric requirements. Tivoli,  • Interact with numerous computer platforms in a multi-layered client server environment. Communicator,  • Coordinate with various vendors and agency departments to resolve end-user and project- MS Office Suite,  related issues. PC's, Macs,  • Verifying the quality standards of the agency are accomplished by meeting customer BlackBerrys,  deadlines and Service Level Agreements. Smartphones,  • Perform daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware, iPhones,  server resources, systems and key processes, reviewing system and application reports, and iPads. Self - verifying completion of scheduled jobs such as backups. motivated,  • Enter purchasing orders, system/user configuration updates, and other requests into assertive, dedicated,  servicing system. organized, efficient,  • Provide guidance on IT-related purchases based on current and future requirements. meticulous, goal-  • Maintain software and hardware inventory. oriented strategist  • Administer emergency operation's center's internal network, devices, and software. whose confidence,  • Determines security violations and inefficiencies by conducting periodic audits. perseverance and  • Ensure that employees are following computer use policies, information security and privacy. vision to promote  • Upgrades system by implementing and maintaining security controls. success. Quickly  • Create and maintain software deployment packages on server. learn procedures  and methods. Rewards 2005 to 2005 communication,  interpersonal, and Security Clearance organizational skills.  Public Trust Dependable - can  work without References supervision.  Available upon request. Demonstrated  accuracy, attention to detail, and ability  to work well in a  team environment.  Achieved consistent  client satisfaction.  Able to work under pressure and meet  deadlines. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems Norfolk State University May 2011 Skills integration (Less than 1 year), INTEGRATOR (Less than 1 year), LINUX (Less than 1 year), Mac (Less than 1 year), Mac OS (Less than 1 year), R2 (Less than 1 year), SAP (Less than 1 year), UNIX (Less than 1 year), System Administrator, System Admin