Sr. Principal Systems Administrator Sr. Principal <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Principal Systems Administrator - Northrop Grumman Los Angeles, CA • Extensive experience developing and testing security architectures of cloud-based systems. Managing and supporting Data Center operations, VMware virtualization, Microsoft Windows servers, and DELL EMC storage solutions.  • Strong interpersonal communication skills and end-user support experience, responsible for managing customer service, process improvement, process standardization and metrics reporting. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Principal Systems Administrator Northrop Grumman - Redondo Beach, CA 2001 to Present • Worked closely with data center management to determine workload and resource commitments. Mentored and help developed junior staff with knowledge of data center operations and support.  • Supported ongoing Data Center operations availability and stability heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems, uninterruptible power supply or uninterruptible power source (UPS), backup power generators, structured cabling.  • Ensured operation success through network, server, and infrastructure monitoring and troubleshooting. Serve as first point of contact for customers needing assistance or turning up new services. Install network gear, servers, and cabling to meet customer and company needs. Act as first line of defense for data center crisis including natural disasters, fires and power failures.  • Managed virtual & physical environment utilizing VMware based virtual management technology such as VMWare ESX, VMWare Cloud & VMWare vCenter, Microsoft Servers 2008/2012/2016, Linux Red Hat 6/7 and DELL EMC storage infrastructures.  • Performed daily system monitoring through alerts and dashboard, verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware, storage resources, and servers, systems and key processes, reviewing system and application logs, and verifying completion of scheduled jobs such as backups.  • Implemented daily maintenance, including performance monitoring, deployment of operating system patches and software upgrades, and configuration control of the technical baseline.  • Incident handling, troubleshooting, and server hardware replacement/upgrades.  • Worked with internal and external auditors to ensure compliance. Education Master of Science in Information Systems Management in Information Systems Management Keller Graduate School of Management 2017 Skills Active Directory (Less than 1 year), air conditioning (10+ years), Avamar (Less than 1 year), backups. (10+ years), cabling. (10+ years), Citrix (Less than 1 year), Clustering (Less than 1 year), data center (10+ years), data center operations (10+ years), DFS (Less than 1 year), DHCP (Less than 1 year), DNS (Less than 1 year), EMC (10+ years), EMC VNX (Less than 1 year), generators (10+ years), HVAC (10+ years), operations (10+ years), structured cabling. (10+ years), UPS (10+ years), VMware (10+ years), Information Security, Cyber Security Certifications/Licenses Security+ March 2017 to March 2023 Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) August 2018 to August 2021