Senior Systems Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Systems Administrator - U.S. National Archives and Records Administration - NTT Data IT Management Professional with over 15 years' experience of large scale commercial and government networks. Engineering of Microsoft, Linux, Solaris, and Unix Servers. System Administration access of Datacenters totaling over 100,000 Servers. Deployment of Server Systems, Datacenters, and Server Builds. IT Project Management and Design, of Networks, SQL Databases, Web Site Design, IIS, Cyber Security, Cloud Computing, Programming, Social Media Networks, and Virtualization. Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator U.S. National Archives and Records Administration - NTT Data - Kansas City, MO November 2013 to Present • Management of Information Systems for the National Archives Records Administration (NARA) Microsoft and Linux Servers for the Kansas City region.  • System Administration of, Microsoft 2008, Microsoft 2012, and Linux Servers.  • Create and Deploy Microsoft Windows Servers  • Support of network operating systems and processes; network management systems, infrastructure, workflow and other network applications.  • Administration of SolarWinds and Dell Open Manage.  • Creation and programming of Microsoft 2008 SQL Server. Senior Systems Administrator General Services Administration - Kansas City, MO May 2010 to November 2013 • IT Project Management of the 20 Million Dollar major upgrade to Federal Building Automation Systems.  • Engineering for the planning and design of Federal Building Network upgrades to be integrated into the existing backbone of the GSA network at Kansas, Missouri, Nebraska, and Iowa.  • Management of Information Systems for the Government Services Administration (GSA) datacenters for over 10,000 servers.  • Provide support, configuration, monitoring, installation and decommissioning of, Microsoft 2003, Microsoft 2008, and Linux Servers of GSA servers.  • Administration of Solar Winds and Dell Open Manage.  • Creation and programming of Microsoft 2008 SQL Server.  • Generate Statistical Analysis reports, charts, and spreadsheets in support of production. Senior Systems Administrator United States Department of Defense - CSC - Leavenworth, KS January 2007 to October 2009 • Management of Information Systems for the US ARMY DLDC Army Battle Command System (ABCS) and the FAA Flight Control Center.  • Administration of Sun Solaris, MS Server 2003 Red Hat Linux servers. Upgrades of system hardware and software as required.  • Installation of Windows Server, Windows Vista, Solaris, Red Hat Linux operating systems.  • Installation of system Adaptations and Security patches as necessary. Manage and documentation of systems events to ensure integrity of servers. NTFS system level commands.  • Set up and participate in Global Digital War Games.  • Installation of Information Assurance Vulnerability Alert updates (IAVA).  • Analyze logs, tracks, to resolve hardware/software issues pertaining to networking, connectivity issues, printers, servers, and applications.  • Monitored remote computers and servers using Real VNC and HP OpenView. Director of Technology Persuadable Research - Overland Park, KS May 2006 to January 2007 • Director of Information Systems, Network Operations, Servers, and processes.  • Cloud Computing utilizing GO-Global application server to provide client-applications to remote users.  • Installation and administration of Red Hat Linux, Apache, PostgreSQL, Samba and VNC servers.  • Deployment of a Microsoft Net Meeting Server for virtual presentations and meetings.  • Administrating Sonic Wall VPN, Firewall, DHCP Server, Veritas Backup Exec, SQL Server, Internet Information Server, Trend Micro Antivirus, and Print Server.  • Support of network and VOIP systems and processes.  • Management of network systems, infrastructure, workflow and other network applications.  • Determining requirements and developing plans to ensure smooth installations of new software and hardware. IT Supervisor U.S. Department of Homeland Security - Lee's Summit, MO July 2001 to May 2006 • Management of Information Systems for over 1500 personnel at the DHS (Department of Homeland Security) National Records Center (NRC).  • Administration of Microsoft Domain controllers' and user accounts in Novell, MS Network.  • Provided technical expertise in resolving network and computer user issues,  • Build and deployment of SQL Server and databases.  • Creation and support of Linux Servers.  • Develop customized data base and API to meet the needs of individual department requirements.  • Generate Statistical Analysis reports, charts, and spreadsheets in support of production. Education Bachelor of Arts in Management Webster University - St. Louis, MO