Lead Systems Engineer Lead <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Lead Systems Engineer Beaverton, OR Work Experience Lead Systems Engineer DXC/Bath Iron Works - Bath, ME March 2016 to May 2019 Key Contributions:  ? Design, implement and manage a large Linux server environment on both physical hardware and VMware 5.5/6.5 with server builds based on RHEL/Oracle Linux 6 and 7, Ubuntu LTS, SLES 11/12, Oracle Grid/Cluster 11g/12c/18c.    ? Application support to include Oracle RAC 11gR2, 12c and 18c, Fusion middleware, Apache/Tomcat.    ? Legacy support of AIX and Solaris.    ? Security implemented at CIS L2 levels on many systems.    ? 24/7 uptime a priority. Linux OS Engineer Intel Corporation - Hillsboro, OR May 2015 to January 2016 Key Contributions:  ? Designed and configured an IPoIB router environment on multiple Linux distros using VRRP, IPVS and haproxy.    ? Performance tuned NFS, iSCSI and SMB/CIFS for high-speed network traffic flow.    ? Wrote official installation and configuration documentation for the initial release of the Intel OmniPath Architecture Linux Router Project.    ? Collaborated with developers in debugging and optimizing Linux drivers. Senior Systems Administrator United States Geological Survey-Astrogeology - Flagstaff, AZ November 2010 to December 2014 Manage and maintain a large Planetary Data Systems imaging center. Provided support to scientists using several Moab/Torque high performance clusters running on EL6. Designed, implemented and maintained multiple Citrix Xen clusters. Supported large programming group on Fedora workstations. Designed and maintained Infiniband networks, large fiber SANs and 10Gb switch environment. Provided support for DNS, NFSv4, Samba, Apache, Tomcat, Postgres, MYSQL, subversion and various programming IDE applications.  Key Contributions:  ? Converted 75 physical servers to VMs on Citrix Xen 5/6 with fiber storage and 10/40Gb Ethernet.  ? Researched, recommended and implemented redesign of Data Center, converting to 220 V, fault-tolerant cooling, fire suppression, alert systems and enterprise UPS system.  ? Redesigned switch environment with new 1Gb and 10Gb HP switches with fault tolerance and load balancing.  ? Implemented and maintained high-speed Infiniband networks for fast data access on lustre file systems and > 1 PB 8Gb fiber SAN.  ? Managed and trained junior sys admins and student workers. Unix Administrator Havasupai Indian Tribe, Havasu Village - Flagstaff, AZ 2010 to 2010 1999 Unix Systems Administrator Northern Arizona University - Flagstaff, AZ 1999 to 2009 In charge of all Sun Solaris and Linux systems and Sun Ray thin client solutions. Implemented Xen and VMWare ESXi virtualization in data center to support CS/CE programs. Managed Oracle 9/10 databases and Apache/Tomcat web services.    Key Contributions:  ? Designed, installed and maintained SAP ERP systems on Red Hat Linux.  ? Supported Oracle 9/10 RDBMS training environment.  ? Designed, installed and maintained Citrix Xen and VMWare ESXi virtualization systems.  ? Designed and taught Unix Networking and Administration courses and managed 2000 student accounts. NAU - Flagstaff, AZ 1998 to 1998 Education Bachelor of Science in Microbiology/Chemistry Northern Arizona University 1993 Skills Apache, Solaris, Ldap, Nfs, Vmware, Database, Mysql, Oracle, Network administration, Virtualization, Ethernet, Smtp, Technical support, Infiniband, Training, Opa, Maintenance, Database management, System Admin, System Administrator, Red Hat, Linux, Active Directory Additional Information HIGHLIGHTS OF IT SKILLS    ? Server Platforms RHEL, Ubuntu SLES, Solaris  ? High Speed Data access via InfiniBand, 10/40Gb Ethernet and Intel OPA  ? Virtualization on VMware, KVM and Xen.    ? Technical Support  ? Systems infrastructure, configuration and maintenance, including BIND, Samba, Apache, LDAP, SMTP and NFS/HANFS/HASMB    ? Database management and support of Oracle RAC 11g/12c/18c and MySQL  ? Network Administration  ? Training and supervision of junior admins