Senior Linux Systems Administrator Senior Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Paris, KY Work Experience Senior Linux Systems Administrator Lockheed Martin - Lexington, KY June 2019 to Present Senior Advanced Linux Systems Engineer General Dynamics, Inc - Dedham, MA April 2016 to June 2019 Total Technical Services, Inc - Dedham, MA August 2015 to April 2016 Sr. Linux Systems Engineer Total Technical Services, Inc August 2015 to April 2016 • Install and configure a wide variety of software products such as RedHat Directory Server and Red Hat Certificate Server  • Create and document procedures to automate or simplify many daily tasks including backup automation with Acronis Backup 11.5 for bare metal builds.  • Provide daily system administration related lab support for software engineering team to solve a wide range of problems  • Implemented NTP and BIND DNS servers for lab of 30+ systems which previously relied on hosts files for name resolution  • Systems Engineering Lead for Nagios monitoring project to automate the deployment of a Nagios server for multiple remote facilities  • Develop procedures for installation and configuration of software products  • Develop installation and testing plans/procedures for integrating commercial off the shelf (COTS) products  • Hardening systems using Security Technical Integration Guides (STIGs)  • Develop procedures to migrate operational data  • Installed and maintain Configuration Management environment utilizing Kickstart, Puppet, Satellite, Foreman and Katello  • Baseline backup and restores of servers to accommodate the needs of software development team Sr. Linux Systems Administrator Hobby Fever, Inc - Billerica, MA September 2002 to August 2015 • Designed, implemented and maintain all corporate infrastructure consisting of five Linux servers, five desktop workstations and various small business network gear including firewalls, routers, Wi-Fi AP's, switches, etc.  • Manage internet based store responsible for inventory, product selection, accounting and other business related day-to-day operations  • Performed several hardware and software migrations and upgrades between first going live and present. Environment consists of 5 production servers as well as 3 development servers. Each server runs one or more of the following: Apache, mySql, php, Dovecot, Sendmail, Postfix, Bind, iptables.  • Perform daily system and database backups.  • Perform daily security audits to check for intrusion attempts.  • Build custom kernel on a per system basis as needed.  • Perform package updates on rpm based and deb based systems with yum and apt package managers.  • Implemented Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 cloud host and Route 53 service to act as a repository for daily backups and secondary DNS server. Sr. UNIX Systems Administrator Sycamore Networks - Chelmsford, MA September 2000 to September 2002 • Sole Engineering Department UNIX Admin, hired to design and implement corporate UNIX infrastructure in preparation for Oracle migration from Windows NT to Solaris environment  • Responsible for the maintenance and support of the corporate UNIX infrastructure in support of Oracle business applications  • Implemented EMC Symmetrix storage array and integrated these systems in support of the transition of Oracle from NT to UNIX  • Worked with database administrators to plan, develop, and test disaster recovery scenarios utilizing EMC BCV technology and Veritas NetBackup 3.2  • Solely responsible for management and operation of EMC Symmetrix Array  • Provide backup support for Engineering Department UNIX Admin  • Responsible for Contract maintenance for all corporate contracts including SUN, Veritas, ADIC, and EMC  • Planned and overseen datacenter relocation from facility on Apollo Drive over to headquarters on Mill Road when Sycamore consolidated from three facilities down to one. Documented full procedure and as part of the process I had replacement hardware on standby in the event anything became physically damaged. Sr. UNIX Systems Administrator/ Systems Security Administrator Nortel Networks - Billerica, MA June 1999 to September 2000 • Responsible for East Coast UNIX environment  • Provide support for 500+ desktop workstations and 100+ servers  • East Coast UNIX Disaster Recovery Lead  ? Created and implemented backup strategy using Veritas Netbackup 3.1  ? Documented procedures for restoring all mission critical servers within the corporate UNIX environment  ? Traveled to disaster recovery site at Comdisco in New Jersey with lead DBA to test recovery procedures of all mission critical database and applications servers  ? Performed upgrade of NetBackup software to update to version 3.2 on server and all clients  • East Coast UNIX Security Lead.  ? Responsible for planning and documenting security procedures to follow across all UNIX machines  ? Maintained SSH and FTP servers on the DMZ, responsibilities included monitoring servers for unauthorized connections and blocking access to their hosts UNIX Systems Administrator Fidelity Investments - Boston, MA December 1998 to June 1999 • Provided support for 30 Solaris desktop workstations and 50 servers within a software development division  • Responsible for creating backup strategy using ufsdump to 4mm and 8mm tape drives  • NIS database management  • Implemented and maintained Solaris Jumpstart server Education Information Systems University of Massachusetts - Lowell, MA January 2002 to April 2002 CE-A-VxFS EMC Control Center - Hopkinton, MA January 2001 to March 2001 Certificate Boston University - Tyngsboro, MA October 1997 to June 1998 Psychology University of Massachusetts - Lowell, MA September 1995 to April 1996