Network Systems Administrator Professional Program Network <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Professional Program Server and Network Systems Administrator Bedford, TX More than twenty years’ experience as a Server and Network Systems Administrator with solid background in a broad spectrum of technologies. Progressive responsibilities in technology-related analysis, project management, and implementations. Possess extensive experience creating multi-vendor environment integrations, while maintaining manageability, resilience and security. Consistent ability to implement and adhere to policies and procedures designed to generate revenues by increasing productivity using efficient time management, on the spot needs assessment, and by establishing superior customer relationships. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Systems Administrator Professional Program New Horizons Learning Center - Fort Worth, TX September 2018 to May 2019 Fort Worth, TX GPA 4.0  Network Systems Administrator Professional Program  • CompTIA A+, Network+ and Security+  • Cisco Routing & Switching ICND 1 and ICND 2  • Microsoft Server 2016 Fundamentals, Microsoft Server 2016 Administration, Microsoft Server 2016 Configuring Advanced Services Systems Administrator National Computer Company - D/FW, Texas April 2013 to September 2018 • Worked with multiple clients that required expert level Windows Server and network solutions.   Active Directory and server OS upgrades and migrations from Windows Server 2000 through Server 2016.   • Hypervisors: Used Hyper-V and VMware  • Creation of Windows Server file / print shares and migrations of file and print services to new servers.  • Windows Server Administration and troubleshooting tasks within DHCP, DNS, and IIS; Review of User / Group management to maintain proper access through file / folder rights and permissions. Implement Group Policies as needed at all levels of Active Directory Organizational Units.  • Joining and removing of servers from Active Directory and manipulating Active Directory objects.  • Worked closely with applications teams building servers with required roles, features and special application-based requirements.  • Experience with in place upgrades for Server 2008 up to Server 2012 then to Server 2016 when required.  • Configuration of routers firewalls create site to site, business to business and VPN at branch offices as well as the remote users. Installed and configured wireless access points.  • Analyze and implement changes to resolve any infrastructure issues as well as business continuity.  • Created scripts in both batch and PowerShell to perform administrative functions.  • Used PowerShell to generate system information such as drive space reporting on various file servers.  • Created PowerShell "one-liners" for Microsoft Exchange migration for 2003 to 2007 migration.  • On-Site data centers or server rooms for clients and hosted solutions at remote data centers and cloud providers. Senior Systems Administrator Marsh and McLennan Companies - Westlake, TX August 2011 to March 2013 • Installed, administered and deployment of Microsoft Windows enterprise server operating systems 2008 R2 for advanced features and related applications.   • Deployed virtual Microsoft Enterprise Server 2008 R2 x64 on Hyper-V and ESXi hypervisor hosts.  • Utilized vSphere web based client to manage features for ESXi hosts and VM’s from the Wintel vCenter server.  • Remediation of server and network issues, ensuring changes adhered to corporate process and consistency of enterprise infrastructure policies.   • Execute server upgrades, capacity planning and performance tuning. Insured all server roles and features installed and are functioning properly for specific enterprise applications teams.  • Responsible for global deployment of Microsoft Windows Servers utilized as Active Directory, Exchange email, SQL database, IIS web servers and custom application solutions specific to departmental applications.  • Verified server’s connectivity within proper VLAN’s, correct switch ports within the infrastructure frame located within global datacenters, branch and remote offices.  • Worked with dedicated script management team to provide portions to a larger or master script for server deployments.  • Edit and create scripts to perform system inventory and create multiple report output types.  • Worked within large data center environment and all global data centers and teams across the globe.  • Had to work closely with the storage and network teams to verify severs could connect to EMC NetApp NAS and SAN storage solutions.   • Used PowerPath on host servers.  • Server hardware mainly provided by HP Enterprise. This included ProLiant DL rack servers and BladeSystem Enclosures c7000.  • Managed servers with iLO and HPOpenview in the lights out data centers. Senior Systems Administrator Bank of America - Dallas, TX November 2010 to June 2011 • Remotely maintained and monitored several hundred Microsoft Windows enterprise Office Communication Server in support of the Global Electronic Communications Infrastructure for 230,000 users. Business continuity tested by region to verify DR in the case of outages.  Systems and application monitoring and alerting handled by Microsoft SCOM and HP SiteScope. Alerting at preset thresholds for afterhours on-call rotation engineering staff. Alerting sent to internal 24 x 7-call center to verify accountability, by opening tickets within Maximo ticketing system for application team to restore services.  • Utilized enterprise problem/incident ticketing system Maximo. This tool used to maintain and RFC’s and all facets of enterprise wide infrastructure change management.  • Attended all engineering meetings pertaining to application and servers. Inclusive of planning implementation or application issue/failure to resolution. Responsible to take ownership and escalate issues internally and with vendors until root cause had been determined and all issues resolved. Senior Staff Consultant Verizon Business, Enterprise Solutions Group - Irving, TX July 1999 to August 2006 • Project Excellence Award – 2005: Awarded for design and implementation of the ESG InSite Web Infrastructure and "Thinking Out of the Box” for Integrated Website Portal Calendar.  The web-based application supporting approximately 30,000 users across the Enterprise Solutions Group, from marketing, sales and engineering. Website portal handled event planning, marketing and sales materials.  The portal provided end-to-end communications for clients, tracking for marketing, sales and metrics utilized by the entire organization.    • Verizon Achievers Club – 2002 – Awarded for initiating and implantation plans that created substantial budgetary savings across all of the Executive Briefing Centers networks.  This provided a superior customer experience and the ability to demonstrate the value that Verizon Business and core vendors provided for enterprise clients. Education Network Systems Administrator Professional Program in Information Technology - CompTIA - Cisco - Microsoft New Horizons Learning Center - Fort Worth, TX September 2018 to May 2019 High school or equivalent Trinity High School - Euless, TX Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY (10+ years), CISCO, CLUSTERING, DNS, IIS, SOLARWINDS, DHCP, NETWORK DESIGN, REMOTE ACCESS, VMWARE, VPN, WEB SERVER, DEPLOYMENT, VOIP, SQL SERVER, SQL, POWERSHELL SCRIPTING, CONTENT DISTRIBUTION NETWORK, HYPER-V, Customer Service, Microsoft Office, Networking, Security, Technical Support, Windows, Sales, System Administrator, System Admin, Red Hat, Linux Administrator, Linux, Redhat Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/donaldkee Additional Information Core Competencies    • Microsoft Windows Server 2000 / 2003 R2 / 2008 R2 / 2012 R2/ 2016 / Hands-On with individual physical / blade center / virtualized servers / Utilizing PowerShell and scripting  • Windows Server Roles and Features Active Directory-Directory Services / DNS / DHCP / IIS Web Server / Hyper-V / Terminal and Remote Desktop Services  • Windows Server File and Storage Services / Print and Document Services / Routing and Remote Access Server / Failover Clustering  • VMware Host setup / Deploy and manage virtualized servers  • LAN / WAN Network Design, Implementation and management SNMP / SolarWinds Cisco Hardware Integration ASA / PIX / Routers / Switches / VoIP / Call Manager Multiple vendors VPN / VoIP / Firewall implementations and management  • Microsoft Windows Media Servers with Content Distribution Network and digital signage  • Enterprise Website Portal Project Infrastructure and application design implementation contract negotiation and vendor management  • Development of processes to streamline Website migration to new platform / design of developers workstations to maximize time efficiency of team  • Managed SQL Server Integration and Deployment for custom core suite of applications / debug application crashes  • Worked closely with developers supporting custom applications by creating development infrastructure  • Maximize the potential for existing hardware and software investments through design, integration and configuration