SENIOR SAN/ SYSTEMS ARCHITECT SENIOR SAN/<span class="hl">SYSTEMS</span> ARCHITECT SENIOR SAN/ SYSTEMS ARCHITECT - Financial Network, Inc St. Louis, MO Experienced infrastructure administrator, engineer, and architect with proven ability to develop solutions that require high availability and provide sufficient performance for test and production workloads. Efforts to consolidate underutilized resources, virtualize physical datacenters, automate complex tasks, and being versatile in mastering new skills to perform new job requirements have all contributed to saving employers tens of thousands of dollars over the years in equipment, maintenance, licenses, outage reduction, avoiding adding head count or services, and increasing employee productivity. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SENIOR SAN/ SYSTEMS ARCHITECT Financial Network, Inc - Olivette, MO October 2005 to Present Evaluated. designed, installed, configured, and maintained server and storage infrastructure encompassing, at various times, HP-UX (11.11 through 11.31), SUSE Linux Enterprise Server (SLES 10 and 11), Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL 5 through 7), vSphere ESXi and vCenter Server Appliance (5.0 through 6.5), HPE ProLiant Servers (G5, G6, G7, and Gen10), Cisco UCS, Cisco Storage Area Network (SAN) switches (MDS), Brocade SAN switches (Silkworm), HP storage arrays (VA, EVA, MSA, and Nimble), EMC storage arrays (CLARiiON, VNX, and VNXe), and EMC VPLEX. Analyzed and resolved problems associated with server hardware, operating systems, and application software. Monitored, diagnosed, and repaired problems on servers. Acted as a leader within the department, shared ideas, assisted in setting policies, procedures, and standards. Exercised autonomous judgment with strong emphasis on minimizing unplanned outages.    * Evaluated and recommended storage array and SAN switch options for three refresh cycles. Planned and implemented each migration.  * Headed group of internal stakeholders ( Systems, Security, Networking, DBAs) in move to cloud provider for DR from provider interviews, selection, and implementation.  * Automated post build process for RHEL 7 virtual machines and physical servers.  * Designed and implemented virtual data center environment in collaboration with Networking and Security teams using VMware vSphere.  * Created scripts to automate employee account creation throughout environment based on employee's role in company and role-based access policies specified by Security team.  * Planned and implemented migration from Brocade/HP SAN to Cisco/EMC SAN. Implementations were performed with minimal customer impact and within tight maintenance windows.  * Evaluated and implemented security configuration changes to HP-UX, SLES, and RHEL systems based on established CIS benchmarks, security policies, and PCI requirements. Also wrote and implemented scripts to run CIS scoring tool and to generate a web page containing all server CIS score reports weekly for Security team to access.  * Developed scripts to run commands and copy files to systems in the environment, using a unique SSH key for each system, based on a variety of parameters (e.g. OS, OS version, OS type, VM vs. physical system, system location), that are maintained in a central configuration file. The flexibility of these tools has made it possible to develop other automated processes based off of them.  * Designed and implemented "poor man's" failover scripts and procedures to support redundant servers when HP Serviceguard was considered too expensive and automatic failover was considered unnecessary.  * Designed and implemented highly available NFS and NIS services that were integrated into HP Serviceguard package control scripts. SENIOR SYSTEMS TECHNICAL ANALYST Signature Consultants, LLC - Heathrow, FL April 2005 to September 2005 Performed all aspects of UNIX (HP-UX) systems administration and engineering for customer on-site and hosted systems at American Automobile Association National Office. Recommended, planned, and implemented changes to UNIX computing environment.    * Evaluated, planned, and implemented system monitoring of hosted HP-UX systems using Mercury SiteScope.  * Evaluated and implemented security configuration changes to hosted and on-site HP-UX systems based on client policies. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Miracle Software Systems, Inc - Dearborn, MI November 2004 to January 2005 Performed first- and second-level support for UNIX (HP-UX, AIX, Solaris) and SLES servers in 24X7 data center, including systems administration and troubleshooting of operating systems and web servers in the Ford Motor Company web farm. SYSTEMS ENGINEER The Sedona Group - East Moline, IL January 2004 to October 2004 Performed all aspects of UNIX (HP-UX) systems administration and engineering for customer on-site and hosted systems at John Deere Information Systems. Recommended, planned, and implemented changes to HP-UX computing environment. Provided third level HP-UX support and training to client's internal support teams.    * Developed and implemented new server build process that consolidated three separate Ignite-UX tapes and automated time-consuming manual processes. Implementation included Ignite-UX server, SD-UX, DHCP, and POSIX shell scripts. New process reduced a two days installation to less than an hour.  * Investigated and documented possibility of hosting legacy applications related to HP-UX servers to customers on Internet without VPN. Involved extensive security considerations to develop recommendation.  * Developed educational material to train the internal support staff on UNIX topics they were interested in learning. SYSTEMS MANAGEMENT INTEGRATION PROFESSIONAL IBM Corporation - Saline, MI March 2003 to January 2004 Note: Visteon Corporation outsourced entire IT organization to IBM    Performed all aspects of UNIX (HP-UX) systems administration for CAD workstations and plant floor application and database servers, physical Oracle database administration, and Windows NT Server administration. Recommended, planned, and implemented changes to computing environment. Provided support to other Visteon plants that did not have local HP-UX and Oracle database support personnel.    * Migrated plant web server from Windows2000 to Red Hat Linux. Implemented file sharing via Samba for Windows users needing access to edit web pages.  * Evaluated and implemented replacement of Hummingbird Exceed with Hummingbird Exceed onDemand. Saved nearly $90,000 in licensing costs by switching to web-enabled product for legacy HP-UX-based plant floor applications. SYSTEMS ANALYST Visteon Corporation - Saline, MI June 2000 to February 2003 Note: Auto parts supplier spin-off from Ford Motor Company    Performed all aspects of UNIX (HP-UX) systems administration for CAD workstations and plant floor application and database servers, physical Oracle database administration, and Windows NT Server administration. Recommended, planned, and implemented changes to computing environment. Provided support to other plants that did not have local HP-UX and Oracle database support personnel.    * Planned and implemented conversion from static IP addresses to dynamic IP addresses for desktop computers using DHCP on HP-UX servers.  * Initiated, planned, and implemented refurbishment of HP-UX server backup and recovery procedures to minimize outages in event of server failures. Procedures included using MirrorDisk/UX, Ignite-UX, and fbackup HP-UX utilities as well as Oracle RDBMS archivelog mode to facilitate online database backups for point of failure recovery.  * Initiated, planned, and implemented consolidation strategy for HP-UX server environment to minimize maintenance and power costs. In twelve months, this effort to eliminate obsolete, malfunctioning, and underutilized equipment reduced active server inventory from twelve to seven.  * Initiated concept and developed two web browser interfaces, one to legacy overhead paging system and another for online submission of computer access requests, using Perl CGI scripts, JavaScript, and Apache web server. SYSTEMS ANALYST Ford Motor Company - Saline, MI January 1996 to June 2000 Performed all aspects of UNIX (HP-UX) systems administration for CAD workstations and plant floor application and database servers, physical Oracle database administration, and Windows NT Server administration. Planned and implemented changes to computing environment.    * Planned and implemented migration of data between Oracle database servers for two applications to resolve Y2K compliance. Volunteering to become Oracle DBA saved approximately $10,000 per instance per year that would have been needed to contract support.  * Coordinated migration of over 600 users from mainframe-based email system to Microsoft Outlook in four weeks. Information technology support group had no supervisor during this migration.  * Planned and implemented migration from OS/2 servers to Windows NT servers during leased computer rollout of over 600 desktop computers in six weeks. UNIX SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR MIS International - Saline, MI August 1995 to January 1996 Performed all aspects of UNIX (HP-UX) systems administration for plant floor application and database servers at Ford Motor Company Saline Plant. Assisted client with use of HP-UX in support of applications being launched at site.    * Wrote shell script to provide text-based menu system for users to run, view, and print SQL reports against plant's maintenance system's Oracle database. COMPUTER SYSTEMS SPECIALIST I University of Michigan - Ann Arbor, MI August 1992 to August 1995 Performed all aspects of UNIX (SunOS and IRIX) systems administration for College of Pharmacy and Biophysics Research Division. Provided support for Windows and Macintosh computers on network. Acted as liaison to other campus departments regarding network.    * Integrated heterogeneous network of Sun and Silicon Graphics workstations using NFS and NIS.  * Migrated Sun workstations from X11R5 to X11R6. Required compiling, testing applications against, and deploying new X server software on production equipment with no interruption of service.  * Implemented email servers using IMAP, POP, and sendmail.  * Assisted in planning and implementing migration from campus mainframe to distributed computing environment.  * Created and maintained prototype web site using Apache web server. Education Master of Information and Library Studies in Information and Library Studies University of Michigan - Ann Arbor, MI August 1997 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Oklahoma - Norman, OK May 1991 Skills Linux Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ October 2011 to September 2020 CompTIA Network+ October 2011 to September 2020 CompTIA Security+ January 2013 to September 2020 CompTIA Linux+ May 2011 to Present CompTIA Server+ November 2011 to Present CompTIA Storage+ September 2011 to Present CompTIA Cloud+ January 2018 to January 2021 AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner June 2019 to June 2021 EMC Storage Associate November 2011 to Present EMC Storage Administrator CLARiiON Solutions Specialist March 2013 to Present EMC Storage Administrator VPLEX Specialist November 2015 to Present HPE Accredited Technical Professional (ATP): HP-UX v11 v3 System Administration April 2015 to Present HP Certified Systems Engineer: HP-UX v11 January 2006 to May 2015 Red Hat Certified System Administrator: Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6 June 2014 to August 2020 Red Hat Certified System Administrator: Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7 August 2017 to August 2020 VMware Certified Professional on vSphere 5: Data Center Virtualization September 2012 to January 2021 VMware Certified Professional on vSphere 6: Data Center Virtualization January 2017 to January 2021 VMware Certified Professional: Data Center Virtualization 2019 January 2019 to Present