Computer Systems Administrator Computer <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Computer Systems Administrator - Just Believe Recovery Center Pocono Summit, PA Work Experience Computer Systems Administrator Just Believe Recovery Center - Carbondale, PA February 2019 to Present Maintains/Administers infrastructure and all connected devices, to include Audio/Visual/Tele Conference components. Administers AD accounts, WYSE thin clients, Intermedia Email accounts, DHCP, Terminal Services server, DFS Shares, Print services, Printers, Printer supplies, MXIE VOIP management software and Zultys VOIP devices. Has some experience with Netgear Switches. Ensures availability of network and internet access on 24/365 basis. Assists users with various IT/Software related issues. Security Forces Police Officer United States Air Force Reserves - Peterson AFB, CO February 2009 to Present Leads, supervises, and performs force protection/air base defense functions contributing to the overall mission. Defends personnel, equipment, and resources from criminal or hostile activities in various field environments. Performs individual and team patrol movements, mounted and dismounted tactical drills and battle procedures. Trains and conducts convoys, military operations other than war, force protection, and other special duties. Recently completed a 1 ½ year active duty tour with the 10th Security Forces Squadron at the USAF Academy, CO, as a Law Enforcement Officer. M-9, M-4, Taser and ASP Qualified. Radar certified. Basic SFST qualified. Qualified Entry Controller and First Responder for all military and civilian related incidents. Accomplished senior Patrolman. Average daily mileage about 100 miles per shift. Computer Systems Administrator Science Applications International Corporation - Fort Carson, CO January 2012 to May 2018 Supported and maintained the U.S. Army Reserves Enterprise Computer/Server Systems Data Center operations. Served as the Print Server System Administrator managing approximately 4500 printers nationwide. Utilized Active Directory and DHCP to manage printer objects. Duties included, Windows Server Distributed File System (DFS) Administrator, assisting users with NTFS permissions and Active Directory Group access issues, data recovery, namespace\replication creation and server maintenance. Supported and maintained the U.S. Army Reserves Enterprise Computer Systems COOP Data Center's day-to-day operations. Set up hardware connectivity and documented all patch cables in a cable management matrix. Built Windows 2008R2 & 2012R2 Servers for Print Services, Distributed File Services Server replication and namespace configurations. Configured and migrated 15K printer objects and 100+ namespaces to new ESX VMware Servers. Maintained both physical and virtual servers in the VMware environment. Created and maintained Standard Operating Procedures for all Print Services and    DFS requirements as part of the Change Management process. Utilized the CA Service Desk ticket tracking system to process all trouble tickets and Change Management requests. Computer Systems Administrator General Dynamics Information Technology - Fort Carson, CO June 2005 to December 2011 Supported and maintained the U.S. Army Reserves Enterprise Computer/Server Systems Data Center operations nationwide. Served as the Tape Archive Manager, CA Service Desk Queue Manager, Data Center Tech and the Cable Maintenance Manager. Built Windows 2008R2 Servers for Distributed File Services Server replication and namespace configurations. Also served as the DFS Administrator, assisting users with data management, NTFS access issues and data recovery. Utilized CA Service Desk ticket tracking system to conduct all work assignments. Deployed as a government contractor to Iraq for 1 ½ years to support the U.S. Marines Intelligence computer systems, mobile communications systems and high-tech surveillance systems providing logistics for all platforms. System Controller United States Air Force, 607 ACOMS, Osan AB January 2005 to June 2005 Republic of Korea    Held the position of COMM focal point System Controller for the entire peninsula of the Republic of South Korea. Operated NIPRNET, SIPRNET and RELROK systems to monitor outages and relay messages to 8th, 51st, and 7th Air Force Commanders. Created Power Point presentations and conducted situational briefings for the 7th Air Force, A-6 Commander and the Air Component Commander. Systems Support Operator United States Air Force, 607 ACOMS, Osan AB - Colorado Springs, CO March 2001 to December 2004 Colorado    Held the positions of Helpdesk Operator, Shift Supervisor, Training Manager, COMSEC Responsible Officer, Tier 1 & 2 Administrative Support and Assistant Facility Manager. Utilized the Remedy/Call Tracker application to create, track and resolve trouble tickets. Resolved 90% of opened tickets without tier 3 support intervention. Monitored the NORAD/USNORTHCOM Intelligence System (NUIS) with the use of HP OpenView; supporting 900+ users at 14 geographically separated locations. Maintained an operational test and evaluation network supporting 60+ users. Education Associates Degree in IT Community College of the Air Force Associates Degree in IT Colorado Technical University Skills Operations, Trouble tickets, Customer service, Help desk, Problem resolution, Printers, Bi, Bi-lingual Additional Information Skill Sets:  Microsoft Certified Professional. Proficient in software operations, management, and administration. Provides support with Help Desk operations and supervision for client servers, desktops and laptop systems. Assist customers in setup and configuration of computer hardware, software and printers. Responds to tier 2 & 3 trouble tickets and console messages or alerts. Isolate faults; determine causes, recover from malfunctions due to hardware, software, communications or connectivity failures. Excellent communicator and well-versed in customer service problem resolution techniques. Possesses aptitude to learn new technologies. Bi-lingual, fluent in Spanish.