Senior Systems Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Systems Administrator - HP/HPE/DXE/Prospecta ? Ft. Detrick Frederick, MD Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator HP/HPE/DXE/Prospecta ? Ft. Detrick - Frederick, MD April 2015 to Present Job duties Daily maintenance on RHEL 7 OS some Windows 2012/2016 administration, HBSS administration, building of environments from provisioning to COTS installation, Puppet make changes that get pushed to tests then released to production for configurations and modules, Production sustainment, all patching, Logicole environments, VM ware administration, analysis and troubleshooting of any issues, work with development and fix issues that arise during builds, work with engineering to ensure every angle is scoped before implementation of infrastructure. Work on the DEVOPS team using JIRA, GitBlit and Jenkins for ticketing, code review and deployments using confluence for technical notes and documents. Alt site design and implementation, JMAR environments and their alt site. SME for Jboss application administration. Senior Systems Analyst Evolvent/ManTech ? Ft. Detrick - Frederick, MD December 2012 to April 2015 Job duties Daily maintenance on Windows 2012 administration, HBSS administration, building of environments from provisioning to COTS installation, Production sustainment, all patching, analysis and troubleshooting of any issues, work with development and fix issues that arise during builds, work with engineering to ensure every angle is scoped before implementation of infrastructure. JMAR environments and their alt site Systems Administrator Akimeka Technologies - Frederick, MD June 2009 to December 2012 Job duties Daily maintenance on Windows 2003/2008 OS, some Windows 2012 administration, HBSS administration, building of environments from provisioning to COTS installation, Production sustainment, all patching, analysis and troubleshooting of any issues, work with development and fix issues that arise during builds, work with engineering to ensure every angle is scoped before implementation of infrastructure. Alt site design and implementation, JMAR environments and their alt site Education High school or equivalent Assessments Technical Support — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/9u6ueexhlbzbilbx Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.