Consultant Consultant Consultant - McNiece Technology Services, Inc Portland, OR Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Consultant McNiece Technology Services, Inc - Portland, OR February 2010 to Present Manage information systems for small to medium businesses, from retail operations to wealth  management. The day to day tasks range and are a constant mix of ongoing projects and desktop support including  ? Network management, setup, and integration.  ? Active Directory integration, and management, applying security policies for the purpose of security, access, and application access.  ? Active Directory setup for multi-site domain structures for DFS, and disaster recovery  options.  ? Firewall management, providing remote access, and VPN to offsite users. Integration of site to site IPSEC VPN for remote offices.  ? IT consulting covering best case scenarios to clients on hardware and software  purchases in balance with budget restraints and expected growth requirements.  ? Hands on, face to face support with all levels of employees.  ? Application development for web applications using rapid development tools.  ? Migration of old systems to virtual servers to reduce hardware footprints and lower the variable of hardware failures on older hardware.  ? Use of VDI concepts to lower cost of ownership for client needs.  ? Desktop support, break/fix, virus/malware removal.  ? Consult on backup, disaster recovery options based on client application, and cost of recovery.  Windows Server Experience: Windows Server 2015, 2012, 2008, 2003, Exchange 5.0 through 2016, Windows 3.1-10, Microsoft Office Suite and Office 365, MSSQL, Active Directory  administration, Group Policy Implementation, IIS 4.0 through current versions    Linux Server Experience: Redhat, Centos, Ubuntu, Apache, Apache2, LAMP implementations,  MySQL, Shell scripting.    Virtualization Experience: VMWare platform ESX, P2V server conversion and migration on available ESXi versions. Amazon AWS services.    Network and Infrastructure Experience: Port Management and forwarding, SSH, Network  infrastructure, DHCP, DNS, TCP/IP, VPN, IPSEC, SYSLOG, SPLUNK.    Hardware Experience: PC, MAC, Raspberry PI.  Adobe Suite, WordPress, Joomla. VMware 4 - 6, VM Workstation, VMP2V, miscellaneous  Video and Audio editing suites. Systems Administrator (Contractor) ReShip.com - Portland, OR June 2019 to July 2019 Contracted to migrate infrastructure network.  • Set up IPSEC VPN  • Install 2019 Active Directory Server  • Setup & configure WIN10 workstations  • Setup UPS, FEDEX, DHL, USPS shipping systems SEO Analyst First Page Sage - Portland, OR December 2017 to December 2018 Analyze web traffic for SEO purposes. Work with clients to establish best practices in web, hosting, and WordPress security, and functionality. Partner, Director of IT Pagatim, Inc. - Portland, OR May 2010 to July 2013 Managed the startup and implementation of a community based online radio network.  Designed systems for production and administration.  ? Developed offsite media delivery system for podcasting platform  ? Managed media storage of created content  ? Managed data analysis of media use  ? Managed network and server security, hardware failover systems and off-site backup and archival system.  ? Worked with production and sales teams to deliver tools needed for performance of duties.  ? Daily management and direction conversations regarding company matters, growth,  budgets, and overall targets. Consultant NWIT Services - Portland, OR August 2007 to March 2010 IT consulting for small businesses. Manage client systems and relationships, maintain networks,  servers, and desktops for small business clients. Supported a mixture of Microsoft, and Linux  based systems. Systems Administrator Avanti Destinations - Portland, OR June 2006 to August 2007 Server management and administration of Active Directory servers for local network.  Administration and management of Red Hat server used for application development, testing, and production. Systems Administrator Picture Head - Los Angeles, CA March 2004 to July 2005 Manage network, servers, and desktops designed for audio and video editing systems used in the production of movie trailers and digital media projects. Systems Administrator Townhound.com - Portland, OR February 2000 to January 2002 Portland, OR  Manage Active Directory Server for security based access. Manage Exchange server for email and application use. Manage ColdFusion servers for application delivery, application testing, and application development. Consultant Cascade Software Consulting - Vancouver, WA January 1998 to January 2002 Technical Consulting working with various clients. Townhound.com and Firstpoint (listed above) were placements through Cascade Software Consulting. Systems Administrator Firstpoint/Teldata - Portland, OR May 1998 to February 2000 Manage Active Directory server for security based access to File, Printer Shares. Manage  Exchange server for email and application use. Support administration for Oracle Sun server,  Qubix workstations. Manage network for 3 locations with limited connectivity. Education Some college Additional Information Active Directory, Exchange, Windows, Group Policy, Port Management, SSH, Network infrastructure, DHCP, DNS, TCP/IP, Backup systems and concepts, Cloud concepts, VPN, IPSEC, Log Systems, Linux, Hardware, and multiple software systems including office suite, and adobe products. VMWare ESXi setup, migration. AWS EC2 Services, SPLUNK,