Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer - Cedars-Sinai/Marina Del Rey Hospital Los Angeles, CA Equipped with fifteen years of success as a network/ system administrator, system support specialist, and field technician. Offers proven abilities in providing first-rate user support and training as well as troubleshooting and resolving network, hardware, and software issues. Expertise encompasses systems analysis, engineering, and installation as well as software development. Works well individually and as a team member. Adapts easily to change and quickly masters new technologies/methodologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Engineer Cedars-Sinai/Marina Del Rey Hospital January 2016 to Present Manage all aspect of data center including Virtualization, VMware VDI, Sophos Email/web appliance, Cisco AP, ACS, ASA firewall and VBlock. Assist with data center migration project, resolve complex server/network related to post migration. Work on different projects from beginning to completion. Network Administrator JC Ehrlich/Rentokil NA April 2014 to January 2016 Responsible for inventorying of all systems and networking equipment's. Support current Citrix 4.0/Terminal Servers environment. Perform daily backups and test restored of file systems. Perform circuit cut over from Sprints MPLS to CenturyLink MPLS. Monitor and troubleshoot network and systems related issues. Provide escalation level 2/level 3 Service Desk support. Prepare to migrate existing systems to SunGard datacenter. Systems Administrator GREENDOT March 2012 to April 2014 Support Greendot end-to-end transactional processing infrastructure and monitoring all aspects of production infrastructure. Responsible for troubleshooting critical systems/network alerts across three datacenters. Deploy new guest servers, configure firewalls changes, and support Avaya VOIP systems. Performed new production release/changes to production farm. Systems Administrator PRESBYTERIAN INTERCOMMUNITY HOSPITAL/ALLSCRIPTS March 2009 to March 2012 Performed various operation tasks, provide escalation support for Help Desk Team, Desktop Team and Application Team. Manage and troubleshoot Citrix, Exchange, Cisco Iron port, Barracuda Spam filter, Websense web filter and Active Directory issues. Designed and deploy new Virtual server, manage and maintain over 400+ servers in physical and virtual environment. Network Administrator AMERICAN GOLF CORP March 2008 to December 2008 Administered all network functions, including Active Directory, GPOs, SAN, print server, and Exchange 2003. Maintained all LAN/WAN connectivity; analyzed and resolved connectivity issues involving hardware, software, and operating systems. Provided a high level of support to remote users and the system support center. Managed and maintained all data center equipment. Performed daily backup and offsite archiving. Deployed updates and applied operating system security patches from Microsoft to servers, workstations, and laptops. System Support Specialist February 2005 to March 2008 Created computer images that complied with company standards. Resolved hardware, software, network, and printer issues for users in a LAN/WAN environment. Supported all corporate applications and provided second-level support to team members. Field Technician First Line Solutions/NCR November 2003 to February 2005 Performed onsite repairs of Dell laptops, workstations, POS systems, printers, and servers. Functioned on an on-call, 24/7 basis to support NCR POS systems for major retailers and ATM machines in accordance with SLAs. Maintained parts on hand. Trained new employees. Education Bachelor of Science in Telecommunications in Telecommunications/MIS DeVry University Skills Active Directory (3 years), Cisco (5 years), Citrix (4 years), Exchange (3 years), Websense (3 years), DNS, Vmware, System Administrator Additional Information Technical Summary    Hardware:  ? Routers  ? Workstations  ? Servers  ? Printers  ? IPAD/IPhone  ? Mobile Devices  ? POS Systems  ? Cisco IronPort  ? Barracuda Firewall  ? Sophos Email Appliance    PC Software:  ? Windows 95, 98, 2000, XP, Vista, Windows 7, NT 4.0  ? Windows Server 2003, 2008  ? Exchange 2003, 2007  ? Active Directory, DHCP, DNS  ? Symantec Ghost  ? Symantec Veritas  ? Sophos AV  ? F5  ? Websense  ? VMware 4.1/5.1  ? VMware View 5.1.2  ? Citrix  ? Altiris  ? Bombard  ? Citrix