Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Service Reliability Engineer - Microsoft Corporation Sammamish, WA 20+ years of progressive experience in Enterprise level web services, CDN and Security, systems and network infrastructure. I have extensive troubleshooting and teamwork skills. Work Experience Systems Engineer Microsoft - Redmond, WA April 2019 to Present Working for the Microsoft Digital Crimes Unit (DCU) creating and maintaining various sinkholes and honeypots in Linux/Windows environments  containerized with Docker and Azure Kubernetes.  Responsibilities:  • Maintain and create various sinkholes in Linux/Windows environments in Azure.  • Use scripting with Python, shell and powershell to deploy and manage the environments  • Use Azure monitoring for uptime, reliability and QOS.  • Maintain various Linux and Windows Docker solutions Service Reliability Engineer Microsoft Corporation - Redmond, WA March 2010 to March 2019 Work for the Universal Store team supporting www.microsoft.com and other high visibility sites such as Microsoft Downloads/ Microsoft Downloads Center, Microsoft Volume Licensing, Time.windows.com, Careers.microsoft.com, Microsoft debugger website (MSDL). Additionally, we are responsible for the CDN and security for these sites as well as others like products.office.com, privacy.microsoft.com, the, Microsoft Investor website supporting and implementing URL rewrite/redirect services at the Akamai and IIS layer.  Responsibilities: • Layer 7 threat analysis and mitigation using IIS/ARR and Akamai/Kona WAF • Design and implemented Layer 7 routing changes for www.microsoft.com.  • Analysis of the sites performance and web trends using Azure log analytics, Xpert, PowerBI.  • Solve issues pertaining to Site availability and performance.  • Support the CI/CD pipeline for www.Microsoft.com.-ARR publishing.  • Support the global Microsoft DNS service for all *.microsoft.com domain support • Consultation with the clients on redirect and rewrite strategies, CDN cache ability and performance for their site  Key Contributions: • Implemented the request portal for www.microsoft.com ARR (MSCOM ARR) which is the interface for all routing changes for the www.microsoft.com sites • Coordinated with customers and the Akamai technical support team to create and configure digital properties in Akamai for testdrive.office.com, oneapi.microsoft.com • Designed and implemented Xpert monitoring / alerting for MSCOM ARR with various dashboards to display health of the service • Primary Service Engineer for the multibillion $/year revenue Volume Licensing Portal. Maintaining 99.99% availability.  • Architected and support the implementation the Volume Licensing downloads publishing system which reduced publishing times by 70%, improving customer satisfaction.  • Streamlined support escalations via automation and monitoring which reduced TTR (Time to resolution) by 40%.  • Modernized the infrastructure for the Microsoft downloads publishing system, time.windows.com, MSDL and careers.microsoft.com sites, improving overall resiliency and redundancy. Systems Engineer Microsoft Corporation - Redmond, WA November 2008 to November 2009 Work for the EXP team as a Systems Engineer, supporting the MSDN, TECHNET, EXPRESSIONS, ANSWERS and HELP.OUTLOOK.COM sites.  Key Contributions: • Successfully supported the Windows 7 launch from Beta to RTM.  • Automated the software deployment process.  • Virtualized a key monitoring service. Systems Engineer Disney Internet Media Group - Seattle, WA March 2008 to November 2008 Work for the ABC team as a Systems Engineer, supporting the ABC family of sites like ABC, ABCNews, ABCFamily, Miramax, Soapnet among other websites.  Key Contributions: • Helped ABCNews and affiliates cover the best elections coverage for the 2008 Elections.  • Revamped the existing SiteScope monitoring to ensure that it monitored all key aspects of a site.  • Implemented the switchover of dynamic applications from home-grown load balancing to F5 Load balancers. Systems Administrator Microsoft Corporation - Redmond, WA July 2007 to January 2008 Work for the Financial Solutions Delivery team in the position of a Systems Engineer, providing support for the Performance Point Server implementations maintained by the FSD group.  Key Contributions: • Implementation and migration of Performance Point Server (PPS) Applications.  • Implemented Hyper-V solutions for a Test & Dev PPS sites.  • Implemented MOM monitoring for PPS sites. Operations Analyst Microsoft Corporation - Redmond, WA December 2005 to July 2007 Worked for the Windows Safety Operations Team to maintain the Windows OneCare Live product infrastructure on a 24x7x365 basis.  Key Contributions: • Improved the AV delivery and Server deployment processes • Automated Security & patch updates on servers while maintaining complete website functionality.  • Identified & filed bugs on various functionalities of the Live OneCare product.  • Virtualized Test environments Systems Engineer/Network Administrator ASKME CORPORATION - Bellevue, WA October 2000 to December 2005 AskMe is the leading provider of software solutions that enable global 2000 companies to create and manage Employee Knowledge Networks (EKNs). Current clients include Intel, Procter & Gamble, CNA Insurance, and 3Com.    Key Contributions: • Setup and configured the 1st and the 2nd datacenters (network, systems, service, monitoring) for the company • Setup and configured the load balanced solution for the askme.com Production web service • Significantly improved employee productivity by migrating to Windows 2003 (from NT4) with zero end-user downtime.  • Exchange and AD migrations with zero downtime.  • Implemented Office relocation for servers multiple times, designing for Power, cooling, network capacity and telecom • Implemented Security with Firewalls, routers and Network Intrusion detection/prevention for AskMe • Implemented redundant SAN solutions using Compaq hardware • Implemented the Corporate anti-virus solution, desktop deployment solutions, Anti-Spam solution for the Mail infrastructure Education Bachelor's degree in Electronics and Communication Engineering Manipal Institute of Technology Skills CDN (8 years), CONTENT DISTRIBUTED NETWORK (10+ years), IIS (10+ years), INTERNET INFORMATION SERVICES (10+ years), Solutions (7 years), Devops, Python, Linux, azure (4 years), Data Warehousing (1 year) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    ? CDN - Akamai, Azure, Savvis  ? Layer 7 Bot detection and DDOS prevention via Akamai WAF and URL rewrite  ? Layer 7 routing - Akamai and URL rewrite.  ? Load Balancers -BigIP, NetScaler, Windows, Azure  ? Log analytics using Xpert, AI, PowerBI, Logparser  ? Support and Monitor IAS, PAAS services  ? Global load balancers - 3DNS & Akamai, Azure FD  ? Monitoring s/w (MOM, Sitescope, Keynote, AI)  ? Network switching routing and firewalls  ? Network design, setup and configuration  ? Protocols: HTTP, SSL, TCP/IP, FTP, SMTP, NTP, LDAP  ? Scripting - PowerShell, Python, Bash  ? Intrusion detection/prevention using Snort  ? Cloud computing with Azure, Kubernetes, VMSS  ? Web hosting - IIS 4-10  ? ASP.Net experience  ? Debugging tools - Fiddler, Wireshark, Windbg  ? Mail and relay systems  ? Enterprise IT solutions for infrastructure  ? SQL 7, 2000, 2005, 2008  ? OS: Novell 3x/4x, Linux, DOS, WFW 3.11 - Win10    NON-TECHNICAL SKILLS    ? Budgeting and Vendor negotiations  ? Project management  ? Office relocation  ? Team Productivity optimization