Database Administrator Database <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Epsilon Saratoga Springs, NY Work Experience Database Administrator Epsilon - East Greenbush, NY June 2003 to Present East Greenbush, NY June 2003-present  www.Epsilon.com  Epsilon is a database marketing provider providing extensive services to the retail and catalog mailer. This includes merge/purge technology and scoring based targeting on consumer purchasing activity.    Database Administrator  • Oracle Database 11g Administrator Certified Associate  • Install, configure and maintain approximately 30 Oracle database instances running 11g/12c EE/SE1/SE2.  • Install, configure and maintain Oracle EC2 AWS databases, including Oracle Secure Backup and database encryption.  • 12c OEM installation and configuration.  • Coordinate with database developers to design and implement table and tablespace structures.  • Develop backup and recovery plans using RMAN and DataPump.  • Troubleshoot and resolve poor performing end user queries using OEM/Statspack.  • Create and maintain users, roles, privileges and other areas of database security.  • Oracle instance performance tuning on virtual machines and bare metal hosts.  • Create and maintain documentation pertaining to instance changes, server specifications and user licensing.  • Troubleshoot and resolve internal and external client issues.    Senior Database Analyst  • Development and execution of data exploration and discovery processes, including ETL for companies largest relational database build client  • Development of database builds and updates applications  • Development of database builds and updates processes and flows  • Development and production of data audits and reports  • Preparation of postal formatting, from raw data files, for high volume mailings. USPS guidelines and software are used in-house  • Maintain data integrity through quality control checking Web Systems Administrator Reserve America - Ballston Spa, NY 1999 to 2003 • Globally extended Reserve America's web portal: www.ReserveAmerica.com/www.ReserveUSA.com. The current design was located in the NY office, which I duplicated to the CA site. This insures the maximum uptime for all of Reserve America's web channels. The configuration is load balanced between offices, and offers the end user a real-time inventory, selection and payment  • Develop an AFS open source network consisting of server and client machines. The network hosted all website content and active pages  • Install and configure a monitoring system for all webserver machines. Critical system activity is reported to a portable device  • Manage connectivity between websites and databases running various J2EE/WebSphere-based applications  • Foundry switches are used in the multi-tiered DMZ environment. These allow access to private pages used by the client, as well as load balance the twenty web servers  • Specify and recommend changes to firewall configuration    Jr. Database Administrator  • Migrating large production databases from a Solaris platform to Linux  • Extensive experience of installing, configuring, tuning and maintaining Linux and Solaris systems  • Developing and maintaining system documentation and scheduled task databases using Lotus Notes/Designer software. The forms are used for documenting, and completing the System Technicians daily system health monitoring  • Performance tuning on production database servers in a client/server environment  • Using the Veritas Volume Manager for monitoring disk and table activity  • Constructing queries and stored procedures using the Informix Structured Query Language tool  • Gather reporting data of critical system metrics. This includes the developing of a system which displays physical disk usage across all database servers, using open source software and Perl scripts  • Create and implement backup and recovery plans for production equipment. Database and file systems are archived to tape, and sent to an off-site facility everyday  • Create and maintain database roles and user groups for all internal users    Statistics  • Record of all call center activity, including: call statistics, agent activity and transactions for all of the Reserve America contracts. Calculation of activity positive transactions and results in an agent-reward and project pay programs.  • Weekly reports to the call center manager, comparing statistics on a weekly basis. Reports include past and projected future sales.  • Create, update and maintain a weekly schedule for approximately 480 employees Education Certification Oracle University 2014 Computer Science Schenectady County Community College - Troy, NY 2001 General Studies Hudson Valley Community College - Troy, NY 1999 Skills DATABASE (10+ years), ORACLE (10+ years), RELATIONAL DATABASE (10+ years), LINUX (4 years), PERL (4 years), Oracle Dba, DBA Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate Present Additional Information Areas of Expertise    * Oracle Database Administration * Strategic Planning and Execution  * Project Management * Direct Response and Traditional TV, Radio, Print  * Relational Database Build    Technical Skills    * Oracle 10g/11g * Linux  * UNIX * IBM WebSphere  * Perl/Bash/Korn Shell * Microsoft Office Products including VISIO