Senior Systems Administrator (team leader) Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (team leader) Senior Systems Administrator (team leader) - LMI Aerospace, Inc San Diego, CA • Exceeding performance for 5 years with HP.  • Exceeding Performance for the Last 3 years with LMI Aerospace.  • On the Dean List for 6 years.  • Security Clearance Secret.  • Fast learner, excellent interpersonal skills and possess good judgment.  • Dedicated to professionalism, highly motivated toward goal achievement.  • Punctual, dependable and reliable.  • Good problem solving skills; ability to visualize a problem or situation.  • Excellent interpersonal skills.  • Excellent communicator and self-motivated team player. Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator (team leader) LMI Aerospace, Inc - San Diego, CA November 2015 to Present • Microsoft Server 2008 R2, 2012 R2 and 2016 management and configuring.  • Monitoring windows servers' health.  • Server stiging and security configuration.  • Diagnosing and repairing servers.  • Windows server upgrade from 2008 R2 to 2016.  • Rack and stack servers.  • Patch Management and WSUS 2016 management.  • Emass Management.  • ATO.  • RMF.  • Risk Assessment.  • POAM management.  • Risk mitigation.  • Scap scanning and security reports.  • Creating reports for VRAM.  • VMware installations and support.  • VMware ESXi 6.5 management, configuring and updating.  • VCenter 6.5 management, configuring and stigs.  • Java configuration, management and stigs.  • Network diagnostic and testing.  • Configuring and managing SCCM 1902.  • Creating software deployment packages.  • Active Directory management.  • Creating and managing GPOs.  • Installing, updating and managing Domain Controllers 2016 systems.  • DNS server management.  • Print server management and support.  • Configuring IIS 7.5 and 10.0  • Symantec Backup system.  • Microsoft office 2010 and 2016 support.  • End user support.  • Putty configuration.  • Backup and restore.  • Disaster recovery planning.  • DOD compliance scanning and patching.  • ACAS scans and creating security reports.  • Creating ACAS Active scans to scan all the network systems.  • Analyzing ACAS scan results and fixing any security flaws.  • Creating ACAS scan policy.  • Creating ACAS reports for the DOD.  • MacAfee antivirus and EPO server management.  • Creating System tree in the EPO server for different systems.  • HBSS installation and configurations for EPO Server 5.3.1  • Assigning Policies and Client Tasks.  • Creating Group Details.  • Adding new systems to EPO server.  • Pushing DLP, VSE, and HIP to new systems.  • Deploying Mcafee agent with SCCM.  • SQL 2012 database management and configuring.  • SQL security configurations and DOD stiging.  • Telnet, SSH.  • Network Storage management (EMC).  • Workstations reimaging and upgrading.  • Diagnosing and repairing workstations.  • Maintaining security of the system per NAVAIR and DOD policies.  • Creating Microsoft Scripts and Batches.  • Remote desktop support.  • Documentation.  • Windows 10 (1803) deployment.  • Software and hardware planning.  • Infrastructure.  • Asset management.  • Software licenses and Hardware procurements.  • Team leader and supporting my Team.  • Supervising all operations in the LAB and making sure we exceed all customer expectations. System administrator Leidos - Los Angeles, CA September 2015 to November 2015 • Server management and configuration.  • Server stiging and security configuration.  • VMware installations and support.  • HBSS installation and configurations.  • DOD compliance scanning and patching.  • Scap scanning.  • DOD stigs.  • Installing and configuring new servers for health department.  • VMware ESXI 5.5 management, updating and configuring.  • VMware vSphere Client.  • Network diagnostic and testing.  • Wireshark data analysis.  • Installing storage solutions 3 PARS.  • Windows server 2008 R2 and 2012. System Administrator NMCI - San Diego, CA May 2014 to September 2015 • Build out servers as directed by the customer and requirements, to include adding/upgrading hardware, racking/imaging servers, building virtual servers and installing/configuring SANs.  • Maintain DNS, DHCP, and Domain Controllers, Active Directory applications.  • Creating and maintaining virtual environments.  • Backup and restoration of Windows servers.  • Install and configure Storage Area Network (SAN) devices and make storage available for use to production and test environments.  • Experience with cyber security, server hardening and DMZ deployment  • Building routine and advanced physical and virtual servers, loading Windows Server 2003/2008/2008R2/2012 servers and allocating  physical and virtual resources for those devices.  • Maintaining security of the system per NAVAIR and DOD policies.  • HBSS installation and configurations.  • ACAS scans and creating security reports.  • Experience supporting mission critical systems 24x7x365.  • Adding, removing, and updating user account information, resetting passwords, etc.  • Applying operating system updates, patches, and configuration changes for optimum performance and security.  • RedHat Linux support.  • Experience with Datacenter Migrations, Server upgrades, O/S and firmware patching.  • Deploy and configure hardware for VMware infrastructure.  • Image servers with required operating systems (Windows 2008 and 2008 R2), Configure roles and features and verify functionality on the domain.  • Manage and deploy Virtual Machine (VM) Servers. Update and manage Hosts and VMs as required.  • Upgrading server hardware and software.  • Troubleshooting servers and replacing failed parts.  • Installing fiber optical cables.  • Exchange Servers, HTTP & FTP services for the organization. System backups and recovery.  • Monitor daily health of the server event and error logs.  • Analyzing system logs and identifying potential issues with computer systems.  • System performance tuning. Raid configurations.  • Ensuring that the network infrastructure is up and running.  • Analyzing and coordinating system outages and interruptions.  • Documenting and managing the configuration of the system.  • Apply networking skills and knowledge of TCP/IP networking.  • Troubleshoot VoIP phone issues (Layer 1/2).  PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE NMCI - 29 Palms, CA August 2008 to May 2014 • Network configurations, connecting the users to the server and active directory.  • Experience with Datacenter Migrations, Server upgrades, O/S and firmware patching  • Active Directory/Windows server 2003, 2008 r8, 2012 administration.  • Supporting SQL databases on SAN platforms.  • Working knowledge of Microsoft Office and Outlook  • Air card configurations and VPN configurations.  • Plan, develop, implement, and maintain programs, polices, and procedures to protect the integrity and confidentiality of systems, networks, and data.  • Experience with business continuity / disaster recovery failover/failback and run book documentation  • Computer configurations software and hardware.  • Experience with windows 98 se, 2000, XP, Vista, windows 7, windows 8 and 8.1  • Supporting over 2000 users on the network.  • Good experience with Dell, HP and other brands.  • Supporting Citrix.  • Netconnect and Netscreen support.  • Remote access server programs.  • Develop and administer databases used to store and retrieve data and develop standards for the handling of data  • Initial setup & data backup.  • VoIP and Call Manager.  • Advanced understanding of network printers and print queues.  • Install, configure and fix office XP, 2000, 2003, 2007, 2010, and 2013.  • Work with customers to achieve common business goals and gather requirements  • Working with Virtual systems.  • Working with Cisco switches and routers.  • VMware virtual technology.  • Network Access Control.  • Configured and fixed Cisco switches and routers. Education Bachelor of Science in Network Communication Management in Network Communication Management DeVry University - Long Beach, CA April 2015