Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer - Decision Digital Dallas, GA • Rebuilt client hypervisor network and designed a best practices network back bone for a client at ONEPATH.  • Migrated virtual servers from Xen servers to VMware servers and a Cisco phone system to fully hosted Ring Central solution.  • Implemented 802.1x security on the corporate network as a Network Administrator for IST Management Services, Inc.  • Consulted on developing and deploying Group Policies across the Atlanta Public Schools primary and child domains. Work Experience Systems Engineer Decision Digital - Atlanta, GA 2018 to Present Technical Scope: VMware, Microsoft Hyper-V, Watchguard, Exchange, Office 365, Bluecoat, OpenDNS solutions, Veeam, Hypervault, Symantec Endpoint Protection Manager, Endpoint Protection Client, Vipre.  Spearheaded Tier III remote support of clientele IT installations utilizing Servoyent and Continuum. Administered on-site customer support to troubleshoot equipment complications ranging from the desktop to the edged devices of the local network. Provided Cloud services support including host server and destination storage for backup and archiving. Eliminated guest servers from client Hypervisor environments per client specifications. Corresponded with customers daily to correct obstacles regarding Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, IIS, SSL Certificates, GPO, VPN, Printing, FTP, backup solutions, email, and Microsoft Office products.  • Client Site Technical Support: Applied a broad range of technologies to satisfy client demands including Hypervisor solutions as cluster and single unit configurations, storage solutions associated with the Hypervisor technologies, enterprise switch solutions, and firewall solutions. Streamlined email solutions and URL DNS filtering by applying Websense and OpenDNS solutions. Utilized Ruckus/Watchguard wireless solutions, backup solutions, and antivirus solutions to meet objectives. Systems Engineer ONEPATH - Atlanta, GA 2015 to 2018 Technical Scope: VMware, Microsoft Hyper-V, Dell EqualLogic, Nimble Solutions, HP, Dell, Cisco, SonicWALL, Exchange, Office 365, AppRiver, Websense, OpenDNS solutions, Veeam, Symantec/Veritas, Shadow Protect, Symantec Endpoint Protection Manager, Endpoint Protection Client, Bitdefender.  Spearheaded Tier II remote support of clientele IT installations utilizing SolarWinds N-able. Administered on-site customer support to troubleshoot equipment complications ranging from the desktop to the edged devices of the local network. Provided Cloud services support including host server and destination storage for backup and archiving. Eliminated guest servers from client Hypervisor environments per client specifications. Corresponded with customers daily to correct obstacles regarding Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, IIS, SSL Certificates, GPO, VPN, Printing, FTP, backup solutions, email, and Microsoft Office products.  • Client Site Technical Support: Applied a broad range of technologies to satisfy client demands including Hypervisor solutions as cluster and single unit configurations, storage solutions associated with the Hypervisor technologies, enterprise switch solutions, and firewall solutions. Streamlined email solutions and URL DNS filtering by applying Websense and OpenDNS solutions. Utilized Unifi wireless solutions, backup solutions, and antivirus solutions to meet objectives.  • Project Management: Restored client network with new parts after the company's sole hardware server crashed. Replaced with single VMware host consisting of 2 guest servers, guest servers housed on iSCSI storage, and Veeam as the back-up solution for the Hypervisor environment. Finalized overhaul of client best practices network back bone including new MDF and IDF closets which is the hub connection for the outlying campus fiber connecting 4 supplementary buildings. Anchored installation of a Unifi wireless solution to client's new retirement location including 25 access points connected to a former wireless controller. Network Administrator IST MANAGEMENT SERVICES, INC - Atlanta, GA 2013 to 2014 Technical Scope: VMware, Ring Central, Cisco Call Manager, Cisco Switches, Citrix Xen, Palo Alto firewalls, Extreme Wireless Solution, Enterasys Switches, Active Directory, Symantec Anti-Virus Solution, Barracuda SPAM Filter, Microsoft WSUS.  Streamlined the installation of the company network for an innovative service provider. Navigated the complete maintenance of the network infrastructure. Transitioned the corporation's phone network from Cisco Call Manager to a hosted structure with Ring Central. Migrated business servers from a Citrix Xen virtual server environment into a VMWare hosted setting.  • Operations Management: Achieved 802.1x security in compliance with SOC2 guidelines. Executed the LogRhythm log server for tracking server and network equipment occurrences. Managed the Cisco switches, Palo Alto firewalls, Extreme Wireless Solution, and Enterasys Switches. Assembled the VMWare virtual servers. Cleansed and catalogued the Active Directory.  • Systems Administration: Refurbished the Symantec anti-virus solution to remote PCs. Established the virtual Barracuda SPAM filter and removed the former hardware versions. Steered Barracuda SPAM and Hardware Load Balance devices. Anchored original managed windows update software established on Microsoft WSUS. Systems Engineer TIG, INC - Norcross, GA 2007 to 2013 Technical Scope: Microsoft Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange, Cisco Switching Installations, LAN, VPN, DNS, DHCP, ERP, SSID, Microsoft Outlook, Microsoft Lync, iBoss.  Assigned to major client Atlanta Public Schools, at a growing solutions provider delivering innovative technology solutions to an expanding diverse customer base in enterprise, government agency, educational and SMB markets.  • Active Directory Support: Administered Level 2-3 support and maintenance on the customer's Active Directory installation containing 1 site, 1 forest, 1 production domain with 1 child domain, 8K objects, and 6 Domain Controllers built on Microsoft Server 2008R2. Facilitated with Level 2-3 support for the help desk regarding Active Directory, Exchange, LDAP, Lawson ERP, Toshiba print server, DNS, and DHCP. Consulted on the incorporation of Group Policies for the primary and child domains. Assisted with entry to the network per LAN, Wireless Access, and authorized VPN connections. Aided with wireless network access via a privacy protected wireless SSID by iPads and personal phones. Provided the phones support 802.1x.  • Exchange Email Support: Spearheaded Level 2-3 tech support and maintenance for the customer's Exchange email system consisting of 2 Client Access Servers in a MS Network Load Balanced client server array. Server rendered entry to 3 mailbox servers hosting 30 databases containing 11K+ mailbox objects of which 24 databases were members of a single Database Access Group within the entire unit. Performed mailbox and database maintenance utilizing Exchange Management Shell and Exchange Management Console. Provided email client access through Outlook Anywhere and Outlook Web Access. Streamlined client access to authorized PCs and mobile devices including desktops, laptops, iPads and personal cell phones. Administered the devices support 802.1x. Regulated user access to Microsoft Lync and managed email operation concerns with the iBoss email filter.  • Cisco Switching Fabric: Initiated installation and "configuration maintenance" of the school district's access and distribution switches throughout the region. Orchestrated on-site and remote tech support through the school's Network Operations Center. Hired personnel per supporting requests from school technicians for configuration changes to deployed switches. Officiated configuration changes of the core switches once the changes were in alignment with the connectivity to the access closets and directly connected devices. Replaced designs that were supported included Cisco Series 6500, 3750, 2960, and 2940. Systems Engineer Entre BTG Inc - Norcross, GA 2005 to 2007 Independent Contractor Expansure Employment Agency - Atlanta, GA 2005 to 2005 Independent Contractor Syscom Technologies - Marietta, GA 2004 to 2005 Education Associates Degree in Telecommunications in Telecommunications GWINNET TECHNICAL INSTITUTE - Lawrenceville, GA Skills Cisco, Vmware, Exchange, Websense, Symantec, Equallogic, Hyper-v, Veritas, Excel, Microsoft exchange, Microsoft office, Outlook, Powerpoint, Word Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/mark-glynn-b238292a Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  Operating Systems / Software:  Cisco Works, Microsoft Exchange, VMWare, Microsoft Hyper-V, Dell EqualLogic, Nimble Solutions, HP, Dell, Cisco, SonicWALL, Exchange, Office 365, AppRiver, Websense, OpenDNS solutions, Veeam, Symantec/Veritas, Shadow Protect, Symantec Endpoint Protection Manager, Endpoint Protection Client, Bitdefender, Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook)