IT Technician IT Technician 10+ years of experience as Help Desk Technician/ Systems Adminitrator Silver Spring, MD Objective: To successfully apply my creativity & problem solving skills in the field of Information Technology    Summary of Qualifications & Achievements    Experienced and knowledgeable Information Technology Professional with past Top Secret/SCI with polygraph security clearance and 10+ years of experience seeking to contribute training and acquired skills within a Technical Support and/or Help Desk role. Work well independently or in a group setting, providing all facets of computer support such as troubleshooting, installations, and maintenance. In-depth knowledge and understanding of numerous software packages and operating systems on desktop and cloud computing environment. Skilled in providing Customer and End-User Help Desk Support. Experience diagnosing, troubleshooting and resolving client issues with hardware maintenance, installations and upgrades. Excellent communication and presentation capabilities.    I specialize in direct VIP end-user support. (ex. Senior Intelligence Officers, Partners/Principals/Directors of large firms) Experienced with high-stress, time-sensitive and zero-down-time 24/7/365 environments. I am skilled in managing stressful situations in a calm, courteous and efficient manner.    Security+ Certification Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Technician Greenbrook TMS NeuroHealth Centers - McLean, VA May 2017 to February 2019 Company provides Mental Heath treatment from 30+ offices, mostly in east cost DC region. I traveled among them providing onsite, remote, and on call support for Dr's and Technicians. All windows based with some Virtual Machine (Cloud computing) administration. Hardware and hardwire network repair. VOIP deployment and admin. Executive support. Systems Administrator General Dynamics Information Technology - Herndon, VA January 2014 to January 2016 Remote support of servers and desktops on classified military networks managed by the Defense Intelligence Agency. Extensive experience with the Intelligence Community's Next Generation Desktop Environment (Cloud working OS) Systems Administrator CENTRA Technology, Inc - Arlington, VA January 2011 to December 2013 Onsite technology support for a growing defense consulting firm. Desktop support, network support, active directory, Microsoft based server maintenance, VOIP and copper voice line management, large conference A/V set-up and support, software diagnostics, equipment repair, upgrade installations, and smart phone support. Special experience with anonymous networks and specialized research computers. Systems Administrator Think Socially Inc - Washington, DC May 2010 to January 2011 Provide all levels of technology support to professional & residential clients across Washington/Metropolitan D.C. area. Performing routine maintenance on all system nodes, making network configuration changes and PC, network, server, PDA, and printer troubleshooting. Consultant Deloitte - McLean, VA June 2008 to March 2009 Technical consultant assisting with daily maintenance and operations of Ginnie Mae’s Mortgage Backed Security Administration Agent (MBSAA) issuing system. IT Analyst Deloitte - McLean, VA June 2006 to June 2008 Onsite technical support for Greater Washington Offices, including application trouble shooting, software diagnostics, equipment repair, upgrade installations, smart phone support, etc. Lead instructor for new hire and intern orientation training. Student Technician Washington College - Chestertown, MD September 2002 to May 2006 Networking systems, LAN Support, Problem Diagnostics, Troubleshooting, Repair, and Installation. Internship for Combat Systems Evaluation Lab Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Lab - Laurel, MD January 2001 to January 2002 Design & Assembly of Technical Military Equipment. Education BS in Physics Washington College - Chestertown, MD September 2002 to May 2006 Leadership Training Institue John F. Kennedy High School - Silver Spring, MD September 1998 to June 2002 Skills Adobe Suite (10+ years), ARC GIS (5 years), DNS (10+ years), Microsoft office 2007/2010/2013/2016 (10+ years), Cloud Computing/ Thin Clients (3 years), Public Speaking (10+ years), LAN (10+ years), Desktop Support (10+ years), Hardware (10+ years), Troubleshooting (10+ years), Customer Service Skills (10+ years), Enterprise Software (10+ years), Enterprise Smartphone Support (10+ years), VOIP (5 years), Anonymous Research Support (5 years), Server maintenance/support (7 years), Networking (10+ years), Exchange Server (10+ years), Active Directory (10+ years), Audio/Visual presentation support (Large/Small) (10+ years), Classified Systems and networks (3 years), Printers (10+ years), Desktop Support (10+ years), Hardware repair/maintenance(Laptop/Desktop/Server/Network) (10+ years), Wireless Networking (5 years), PKI certificate management (3 years), Help Desk, Service Desk, Helpdesk Support, Comptia, Tech Support, It Specialist, Network Support Certifications/Licenses Security+ February 2013 to February 2017 Additional Information Specialize in direct End-User support and training for VIPs(Ex. Senior Intelligence Community Officers, Large/small Firm Partners/Principals/Directors/Executives). I find this usually requires a soft touch without patronizing and clear, detailed (and patient) guidance, politely, professionally and promptly. I believe I have a talent for simple yet detailed explanation and guidance of anything confusing or frustrating to users. I consider an executive's time and attention as a valuable company asset and respect it accordingly. I also believe that any tech far less effective when the end user is not comfortable asking "stupid" or "embarrassing" questions. There is a loss of productivity but also a potential security issue. A good personal rapport with all end users is vital to being approachable. It can be the difference between a "just in case" question or disaster recovery.     Exceptional communication     Experienced with high-stress, time-sensitive and zero-down-time 24/7/365 environments.     Able to manage stressful situations in a calm, courteous and efficient manner.    Work very well in group settings and comfortable teaching very large (100+) groups.