Senior Data Security Analyst Senior Data Security Analyst Senior Data Security Analyst Washington, DC Work Experience Senior Data Security Analyst General Dynamics Information Technology - Washington, DC June 2017 to May 2019 Contractor to the Environmental Protection Agency)    • Supported the Agency by providing network administration support to over 6,000 users.  • Responsible for data integrity and security through administration hierarchy of Windows and Virtual Servers.  • Monitored existing storage environments disk usage, performance and storage availability.  • Deployed virtual servers from templates and customized as needed by the customer.  • Secured network resources with shared folder permissions.  • Monthly server maintenance was performed by applying Microsoft Security updates via BigFix and updating server firmware  • Installed and configured standalone servers which includes mounting the server in the rack, cable management, installing the OS, and connecting to the network.  • Resolved incidents, via BMC Remedy IT Service Management console.  • Created and submitted change controls to schedule and track any changes in the environment.  • Provided documentation critical for team members on implemented processes.  • Diagnosed hardware network failures and provided resolutions.  • Reviewed security issues on servers by remediating vulnerabilities when needed and provided supporting documentation. Senior Systems Administrator Science Applications International Corporation 2010 to 2017 Contractor to the Environmental Protection Agency)    • Designed and implemented various hardware and software systems for headquarters and regional offices.  • Monitored existing storage environments disk usage, performance, storage availability and allocation of disk space, data migrations and creation of LUNS via 3PAR and Dell EMC Clarion SAN.  • Performed daily health checks, monthly maintenance and necessary server upgrades  • Performed and resolved incidents via BMC Remedy IT Service Management console.  • Originated detailed monthly SLA deliverable spreadsheet for senior management covering server outages.  • Authored daily management reports to management tracking weekly server outages, cause and resolution.  • Write and upgrade documentation critical for team members and OEI personnel on implemented processes.  • Provided training to new employees on all systems and tools utilized in the agency.  • Contributed to on-call duty for off-peak hour outages.  • Responsible for the migration of all Headquarters printers to standalone print servers.  • Conducted the AD Migration of data from standalone servers to virtual servers for all Program Offices in Headquarters. Senior Systems Administrator Computer Science Corporation - Washington, DC 2003 to 2010 Contractor to the Environmental Protection Agency)    • Conducted network administration duties covering new account initiation/deletions and user access.  • Ensured timely and accurate change controls/NDS change requests resolving server hardware/software issues.  • Facilitated daily health checks, monthly maintenance and necessary server upgrades.  • Successfully installed/configured Windows 2003 Servers for AD deployment.  • Authored daily management reports for management to track weekly server outages, causes and resolution. Computer Systems Analyst Lockheed Martin - Washington, DC 2000 to 2003 Contractor to the Environmental Protection Agency)    • Retained to deliver support for LAN System Department of EPA.  • Ensured exceptional second-level technical support and consultation to EPA LAN and Administrators.  • Assumed responsibility for Novell network administration including new accounts/deleting accounts, groups and users access to files/folders.  • Originated daily morning management report outlining weekly server outages. Monitored stand-alone/cluster servers for HQ Shared Services.  • Administered change controls/NDS change requests for servers. Performed daily health checks, monthly maintenance and conducted server upgrades.  • Conducted successful hardware migrations utilizing Netware Migration Wizard tool. Aided Program Offices in converting printers to NDPS. Education None in AAS Information Systems Technology College of Southern Maryland August 2017 to December 2017 Skills Active directory, Networking, Remedy, Tcp/ip, Bmc, Equallogic, Tcp, Vmware, Vpn, Ethernet, Ipx, Symantec, Excel, Lan, Lotus notes, Microsoft office, Outlook, Powerpoint, Word Certifications/Licenses Currently studying for Security + Certification Assessments Email — Highly Proficient April 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/hisemxlcflhztnhv Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.