Sr. Cloud Engineer Sr. Cloud Engineer Sr. Cloud Engineer - Alston & Bird Riverdale, GA A multitalented individual with experience in Cloud deployments looking for a challenging and rewarding position working with Azure and automation technologies. Also, have a passion for learning new technologies and blogging about Azure and Powershell. Lastly, have a certification in Azure (exam 70-533).    Has expertise in:  ? Operating Systems: Windows Server 2016, 2008 R2, 2008  ? Messaging: Exchange Server 2016, 2010 & 2003  ? Virtualization: VMware ESX 4.0, 5.5  ? Scripting/Automation: Windows Powershell, Powershell DSC  ? Cloud: Microsoft Azure IAAS, ARM, O365, MFA, SSO    Has familiarity with:  ? Operating Systems: Linux  ? Application virtualization: Docker  ? Automation tools: Terraform  ? Scripting: Bash  ? Cloud: AWS EC2 Work Experience Sr. Cloud Engineer Alston & Bird - Atlanta, GA September 2011 to Present Installed and configured ADFS for SAML based Application federation  ? Installed and configured Azure AD Connect to synchronize Identities to Azure AD in multi-forest environment  ? Upgraded On-Premise Active Directory environment  ? Performed MDM migration from Airwatch to Intune  ? Migrate on-premises VMs to Azure using Azure Site Recovery and configured supporting infrastructure  ? Perform Backup of Azure VMs  ? Implemented IAAS solutions (Blob storage, Virtual networks, subnets, load balancers, NSG)  ? Utilize Azure Monitor and Log Analytics for monitoring resources and performing Kusto queries  ? Configured Azure AD Single-Sign on (SSO) for internal line of busines applications  ? Configured monitoring alerts in Azure AD for subscription resources  ? Used Azure runbooks to create customize reports on license usage  ? Created Powershell Scripts to automate administrative tasks  ? Configured Azure App Proxy to provide external access to internal SharePoint environment  ? Secured access to Azure resources and enforced device policies with Conditional Access polices in Azure  ? Configured OMS Workspace in Azure to perform assessment of on-premise AD and workstation upgrade readiness  ? Secured Azure environment by implementing MFA for users and administrators Exchange Administrator Scientific Research Corp - Atlanta, GA October 2009 to August 2011 Used SnapManager for Exchange 2007 to configure snapshots for Exchange 2007 Volumes and LUNS in NetApp storage system  ? Used NetApp System Manager to create FlexVols and LUNS for Exchange 2007 databases  ? Responsible for managing patches to Exchange 2007 servers, Symantec Enterprise Vault servers, SQL Servers  ? Responsible for managing archived mail by adding users to provisioning group to comply with corporate mail retention policy  ? Upgraded vCenter Server to 4.0 update 2  ? Created virtual machines in vCenter; performed cloning of virtual machines  ? Used VMWare vSphere to configure vNICS on Exchange Servers for accessing NetApp iSCSI storage array; created LUNS and configured iSCSI initiators using NetApp SnapDrive  ? Performed rebuild of VMWare ESX 4.0 host to update it to a later version. Installed updated version of ESX server, added datastores from NetApp controller, reconfigured vSwitches, service console, port groups and updated vCenter server.  ? Performed migration of virtual machines and datastores using vMotion on ESX 4.0 host servers  ? Used Group Policy Manager to configure user settings in Active Directory domain, enforce domain security and ensure delivery of mail from HR notification server. Systems Administrator CDC Software - Atlanta, GA September 2008 to August 2009 Participated in server consolidation program through use of VMware ESX 3.5 server and VMware 2.5 Virtual Center.  ? Used VMware ESX 3.5 to build and configure Windows Server 2008 and 2003 domain controllers and converted domain controllers to virtual machines (P2V); performed vMotion of virtual machines.  ? Installed Windows Server 2008 and setup as domain controller using dcpromo  ? Performed a complete evaluation of the state of the Active Directory deployment  and Exchange 2003 environment.  Install/configure Exchange 2003 mailbox server with 3 active nodes and 2 passive and Exchange 2003 resource server with 2 active nodes and 1 passive node.  ? Create a custom mailbox size report in Message Stats. Remove Exchange  attributes from disabled accounts. Manually grant send as permissions to a user with full mailbox access. Configure OWA to use SSL.  ? Participated in migration from Exchange 2003 to 2007. Used ExMerge to migrate end user mailboxes to new Mail Server.  ? Implemented custom recipient polices on Exchange 2003. Troubleshooting Active Directory replication problems. Creating standard process for group policy deployment Active Directory users and groups management. Implementation and administration of DNS, DHCP and WINS. Utilize Microsoft Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange Server to create and manage user accounts and mailboxes.  ? Uses Quest collaboration services to synchronize accounts across domains. Responsible for creating Blackberry accounts on BES server and configuring handheld devices.  ? Installed and configured SQL 2005 Enterprise server cluster Windows 2008 active/passive nodes. Education Diploma in Network Admin The Chubb Institute December 2002 B.A. in Psychology Florida A&M University July 1996 A.A. in Business Admin Palm Beach Comm. College December 1993 Links https://darawtechie.com