Cyber Liaison/ISSO Cyber Liaison/ISSO Cyber Liaison/ISSO - Patterson AFB Tipp City, OH DoD 8570 IAT Level II Certified, DoD information system IA policies and procedures; DJSIC; A&A; POA&P; NIST; CNSSAM TEMPTEST; Subject Matter Expert (SME) within AF ISR community; Extensive knowledge of Collateral, Special Access Programs (SAP) and Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) operational methodology. Prepares, updates and maintains RMF documentation such as, but not limited to, Authorization to Operate (ATO) packages, System Security Plans (SSP), Risk Assessment Reports (RAR), Security Control Traceability Matrixes (SCTM) and Plan of Actions and Milestones (POA&Ms) for networks and systems. Provides Configuration Management (CM) for IS security software, hardware, firmware and coordinating changes and modifications with the ISSM, SCA and Authorizing Official (AO). Excellent communication skills, work ethic, a broad knowledge of Microsoft products, and commercial off the shelf (COTS) products with configuration and implementation. Work Experience Cyber Liaison/ISSO Patterson AFB - Dayton, OH August 2015 to Present Duties and Related Skills:  Executive Cyber Liaison providing advisement and remedy to senior management and staff personnel on complex/controversial issues to include security weaknesses discovered or recommendations for improved security. Responsible for security management and administration of 124 workstation on a $3B network while controlling over 400+ accredited equipment items. Plans, organizes, and executes sustainment while continually evaluating security posture activities for classified/unclassified networks in accordance with DoD instructions following Air Force policies, guidance, and standards. Attends multiple yearly IC working groups to broaden TS interconnectivity, SCI, and SAP landscape with other DoD and civilian agencies. Ensured SCI compliance through access control lists within SCIFs and Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) National Security computers. Manages the AFMC SCI COMPUSEC, COMSEC, and TEMPEST/EMSEC security programs to protected SCI information throughout system life cycle. Ensures security controls for the protection of SCI - SAP information in accordance with DoD, Joint, and Air Force security directive, policies, and instructions. Creates, logs and controls all customer requests and transactions for data transfers between systems (e.g. Compact Disks (CD) and other high-capacity media, scanning documents, etc.). Ensures the following activities are required and completed on a periodic basis (e.g. ensuring data is backed up, account management (deactivate unused accounts and validate user access rights). Evaluates all new software and hardware products for potential security flaws and risks. Immediately notifies the Information Systems Security Manager (ISSM) of all security-relevant issues, findings and potential risks associated with any Information System (IS). Periodically reviews and analyzes audit logs for system deficiencies and anomalies using audit reduction tools. Resolves Negligent Discloser of Classified Information (NDC) across SCIFS sanitizing devices, destroying, and averting disclosure of US classified secrets. Conductes inspections and assessments to subordinate command and control SCI facilities while ensuring compliance with SCI security regulations. Piloted top secret SAP project creating and delivering SCI instituted VTC/VOIP capabilities across AFMC new unified communications system with the DIA. Lead first ever SIPR Modernization VDI (Virtual Desktop Infrastructure) solution bringing new classified communication capabilities to Wright-Patterson AFB. Deployments: Al Udeid, Qatar IT Systems Administrator 24th Special Tactics Squadron - Fayetteville, NC August 2010 to August 2015 Duties and Related Skills:  Lead Systems Administrator supervisor for 4 command staff personnel, 18 client support personnel and 83 operators providing first look diagnostics and response. Managed 19 operational nodes for 19 diverse work centers and responsible for a 22 million dollar garrison computer and electronics property account. Validated requirements for sensitive USSOCOM & AFSOC contingencies and operational taskings for joint tactical ground forces and alert first responders. Approved and maintained security aspects of SCIF and Tactical Operations Centers (TOC) systems, ensuring appropriate clearances, access, and a need-to-know are enforced for all users. Diligently applied information systems security protocols to all on site systems. Created and participated in configuration controls boards; ensuring configuration management mechanisms are used and maintained. Program managed Tactical Operations Center (TOC) bridging cyber operations; interconnecting video teleconference capabilities for 4 global work centers. Supports C4I (Command, Control, Communications, Computers, and Intelligence) for highly sensitive strike, recon, and combat search and rescue missions. Subject matter expert for development of projects, network security, and systems aggregation while screening and selecting from top performers in the industry. Produced requirements for joint tactical ground forces and alert first responders while configuring and replacing garrison computer systems to war fighting teams. Deployed classified cutting edge tactical packages during real world contingencies and training events to include MDRT, BGAN, and MICROSAT terminals. Deployments include Africa, Iraq, Afghanistan and others to include the United States.  HQ AFSOC/DS  Hurlburt Field Florida  Hurlburt Field, FL 32544 United States    05/2006 - 08/2010  Hours per week: 40  IT Systems Administrator  Duties and Related Skills:  Performed access controls for information systems support and Information Manager (IM) functions for 17 SharePoint portal pages and 52 security groups. Responsible for setup and disposition of 310 computer accounts, manages, installs, configures, and performs local policy functions on the network. Provides customer service to assist in the back up, configuration, and data recovery of information systems during crisis or environmental disasters. Performs help desk customer services and resolves network hardware and software failures supporting 43K equipment items on both classified and unclassified systems.Reports computer security incidents, formulates and applies corrective security procedures on both classified and unclassified data processing units. Provided end user support to headquarters AFSOC VIP, A-staff directorates, and tenant users managing both unclassified and classified networks. Managed all administrative information systems for a command staff of 35 personnel to include the creation and dissemination of classified documents. Supervised, lead, and mentored 6 client support technicians as a support detachment of the 1st Special Operations Group and the only headquarter focal point. Managed the oversight of VIP backup servers and tracked command taskings to AFSOC directors and special staff agencies, wings and groups. Responsible for the creation, disposition, and management of over 300 military and civilian accounts over unclassified and classified networks. Deployment: Al Udeid, Qatar IT Systems Administrator HQ AFSOC/DS - Hurlburt Field, FL May 2006 to August 2010 Duties and Related Skills:  Performed access controls for information systems support and Information Manager (IM) functions for 17 SharePoint portal pages and 52 security groups. Responsible for setup and disposition of 310 computer accounts, manages, installs, configures, and performs local policy functions on the network. Provides customer service to assist in the back up, configuration, and data recovery of information systems during crisis or environmental disasters. Performs help desk customer services and resolves network hardware and software failures supporting 43K equipment items on both classified and unclassified systems.Reports computer security incidents, formulates and applies corrective security procedures on both classified and unclassified data processing units. Provided end user support to headquarters AFSOC VIP, A-staff directorates, and tenant users managing both unclassified and classified networks. Managed all administrative information systems for a command staff of 35 personnel to include the creation and dissemination of classified documents. Supervised, lead, and mentored 6 client support technicians as a support detachment of the 1st Special Operations Group and the only headquarter focal point. Managed the oversight of VIP backup servers and tracked command taskings to AFSOC directors and special staff agencies, wings and groups. Responsible for the creation, disposition, and management of over 300 military and civilian accounts over unclassified and classified networks. Deployment: Al Udeid, Qatar Education Bachelor's Degree in Information Technology Columbia Southern University - Orange Beach, AL January 2018 Certifications/Licenses Security+ November 2011 to Present Network+ November 2011 to Present A+ Certified November 2011 to Present