Principal Systems Engineer Principal <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Raleigh, NC Experienced Systems Administrator with a proven track record of leading IT organizations to success. Skilled communicator with an engaging personality and a focus on results. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Principal Systems Engineer Hazen and Sawyer - Raleigh, NC November 2017 to Present Design and manage all aspects of circuits, routers, firewalls, VPN, Exchange hybrid environment, technical escalations, and system automation.  Specialty areas:  • PowerShell - including Exchange, Azure and other modules  • Batch creation and system automation  • Office 365 administration - including all related Microsoft Admin Centers  • Virtualization  • Cloud management Systems Administrator Plexus - Raleigh, NC 2010 to November 2017 Identified, evaluated, and deployed global IT solutions to meet the needs of a world-wide engineering organization.  • Served as technical expert for system administration for Unix and Windows servers.  • Established, maintained and managed user Unix accounts, Windows accounts, PCs, and Active  Directory configuration.  • Installed and maintained Windows and Unix servers, both physical and virtual servers.  • Managed all aspects of data center including: Cisco UCS virtualization hardware, management software and equipment such as UPS, generator, switches, routers, access points, IP phones, and NetApp network attached storage.  • Managed iStar door controllers and security system using C-Cure security application.  • Imaged and maintained engineering CAD computers and servers using System Center Configuration  Manager (SCCM) and automation. Systems Administrator TEKSystems - Raleigh, NC 2009 to 2010 • Performed site System Administration for a large manufacturing plant.  • Supported PBX phone system and computers for over 200 end users.  • Refreshed IT devices: RS6000, switches, wireless access points, routers, network printers, computers and other supported network devices.  • Deployed new software images and applications, including security updates, using SCCM. IT Engineers Manager Deltacom - Raleigh, NC 2006 to 2008 Oversaw all aspects of project management, network installation and support on devices such as: phone systems, computers, switches, routers, wireless access points, network printers, and network storage devices.  • Installed all network devices in eastern North Carolina.  • Managed IT Engineers who deployed and supported network devices in the field.  • Supported helpdesk technical supervisors for all hardware and software issues. Consultant Alliance of Professionals & Consultants - Raleigh, NC 2003 to 2006 Taught IBM employees how to deploy IBM hardware and provided subject matter expertise for numerous automation tools.  • Performed onsite training to IBM customers on how to deploy servers and PCs.  • Created all training materials and personally wrote deployment documentation and procedures.  • Worked with development team to create processes for field operations and deployment methods for new products. Engineer International Business Machines - Research Triangle Park, NC 1993 to 2002 • Performed hardware and software validation testing - 3 years.  • Performed large customer critical situation problem resolution for CEO's office - 4 years.  • Performed software and hardware customer support - 2 years. Education Associates in Applied Science in Networking Technology Johnston Community College 2011 Skills CISCO (10+ years), PBX (10+ years), ACCESS (10+ years), ARCHITECTURE (10+ years), CAD (10+ years), System Administration (10+ years), Unix Administration (10+ years), Autocad (8 years), Solidworks (8 years), Project Management (10+ years), Lean Six Sigma (8 years), Windows Server (10+ years), Change Management (10+ years), Database Management (10+ years), Forecasting (10+ years), Hiring (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), Kaizen (8 years), Linux (10+ years), Management (8 years), Networking (10+ years), Public Speaking (5 years), Risk Management (5 years), Security (8 years), Powershell (3 years), Exchange Server (6 years), Office 365 (2 years), PowerApps (1 year) Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/9qgnvhcz6mmti2zp Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills    Network: Design, installation, maintenance, repair, configuration/management standards,  principles/techniques, WAN and LAN architecture, VoIP and PBX switching systems.  Network Gear Manufactures: Cisco, ADTRAN, Juniper, and Riverbed.    Operating Systems: Windows 10, Windows Server, Linux, Unix, VMWare, Virtual PC, and USC tools.  Microsoft / Other Applications: PowerShell, Batch, SCCM, SharePoint, Office, Citrix, Trend, McAfee, Dynatrace and numerous other synthetic and real-time monitoring tools, PTC Creo, Cadence Allegro, SolidWorks, Windchill.  Languages: Pascal, Visual Basic, C++ and Java.  Web Design: HTML, VB Script and Java Script.  Database: Microsoft SQL and Access.