Information Systems Administrator Information <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Information Systems Administrator - Holiday Inn Mayagüez, Inc Hormigueros, PR Resourceful individual driven to cut company costs and boost company revenue through innovative management techniques. Organized and diligent, with excellent written, oral, and interpersonal communication skills. Successful in building and motivating dynamic teams. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Systems Administrator Holiday Inn Mayagüez, Inc - Mayagüez, PR March 2014 to Present • Provide support for all hotel systems within the hotel (PBX, LAN, WAN, PMS, POS, Casino Gaming, TV ).  • Provide systems administration, monitoring troubleshooting, and problem resolution for the Microsoft Windows Server and Desktop environments.  • Firewall and Security policies administration.  • Administer and support of Microsoft Active Directory.  • Ensure the standard configurations of all properties in the hotel/s are in line with InterContinental Hotels Group (IHG) policy and standard requirements. Ensure that these standards are enforced on a continual basis.  • Ensure the efficient and timely communications with suppliers.  • Provide 24 hour/7 day on-call support for I.T. as required.  • Review contracts to ensure they comply with current IHG standards.  • Ensure all systems expenditures are adhered to budget.  • Provide an efficient service to both suppliers and hotel staff in a timely manner.  • Where possible, ensure any system downtime is coordinated effectively ensuring minimum disruption to hotel operations.  • Director of Green Engage program.  • Manager on Duty Responsibilities:  ? Check all aspects of all areas not just cleanliness or tidiness, but also staff attitude, appearance, manning levels, security and safety of each area, atmosphere, décor of all areas etc.  ? Ensure all issues relating to guest satisfaction are met and that follow up is completed on a timely basis.  ? Should there be any urgent engineering issues follow up immediately with duty technician.  ? Observe and assist all hotel employees including evaluate their performance both Behaviour and Functional aspects.  ? Pay attention to possible undesirable patrons entering or exiting the hotel.  ? Coordinates with Security and local enforcement to achieve full security and protection for guests, staff and hotel property.  ? Responsible for the handling of any emergency that may develop in the hotel (Fire, Theft, etc.) and to inform the proper agencies or people of these events.  ? Act as part of the Fire Brigade/ Evacuation Team in the event of an emergency.  ? Handle claims and accidents with the utmost courtesy and immediate attention.  ? Coordinate with HR department in report of the persons injured on the property and submits the report to the management.  ? In the event of any unusual happenings within the hotel such as robbery or ransack, carries out the following procedures:  * Informs Security immediately.  * Calls management.  * Informs key hotel Executive if there is any injury.  ? Supervises all personnel on shift.  ? Reports any disorders to concerned department heads for necessary action.  ? Be aware of all situations including fire alarms, power outages etc.  ? Talk and acknowledge all guest you encounter write down any negative and positive comments.  ? Investigate and document all guests and employee's accidents.  ? Notify Human Resources Manager on all employee related injuries.  ? Ensure any guest accidents and injuries are thoroughly and professionally handled. Information Systems Specialist Mayagüez Resort & Casino - Mayagüez, PR March 2003 to March 2014 • Systems, Network and Database Administrator.  • Implementation and integration of cost-effective, high performance technical solutions to meet challenging business needs.  • Support to PBX system, computers hardware, software and networking issues.  • Administration of Windows and *nix based hybrid LAN.  • Assist in planning, designing, troubleshooting, upgrading and evaluating of servers and storage infrastructure, including hardware and software.  • Web page development (internet/intranet).  • Data mining of MS-SQL Databases combining views, queries and PHP web development.  • Organization of data for efficient reporting and retrieval.  • Back-up for data systems.  • Creation of electronic files in a variety of complex formats.  • Design, development and maintenance of databases.  • Preparation of complex reports, on-line documents and information booklets.  • Office and client support at a helpdesk level.  • Research, recommend and implementation of new hardware and software into the environment to increase efficiency.  • Monitor and support internal network security, management of VPN access through Cisco routers.  • Evaluate network communications.  • Work with Active Directory across multiple domains, file/application servers and storage.  • Design and implementation of security policies, internet access control with Squid Proxy Server combined with MySar Reporting.  • Design and implementation of security policies and procedures for Disaster Recovery and backups to assure business continuity and network security. Education Certificate in Accounting Assistant Instituto de Banca Y Comercio de Puerto Rico - Mayagüez, PR 1988 Certificate in Computer Programming Instituto de Banca Y Comercio de Puerto Rico - Mayagüez, PR Skills SECURITY (10+ years), COST CONTROL (5 years), INVENTORY (10+ years), training, Scheduling, Microsoft Word Additional Information SKILLS  • Cost Control  • Process optimization  • Strategic planning  • Inventory management  • Staff development  • Quality assurance  • Goal attainment    • IT security best practices  • Interpersonal skills  • Working with shifting priorities  • Managing multiple projects  • Team player  • Documentation