DevOps Engineer DevOps Engineer DevOps Engineer - ArborMetrix Work Experience DevOps Engineer ArborMetrix October 2018 to Present Current Employer please do not contact)  ? Assisted the organization in moving from Vmware to AWS during the transformation from a startup to an Enterprise.  ? Dockerized main application in tomcat and deploying with Kurbernetes.  ? Designed and implemented a multi-VPC infrastructure in AWS utilizing multiple AWS resources such as EC2, S3, EFS, EBS, EKS(For kubernetes deployments), IAM(included RBAC authentication with kubernetes through IAM). Including Properly designing secure and scalable infrastructure with the use of Terraform. DevOps Contractor DewPoint Inc August 2017 to October 2018 with Delta Dental of Michigan.  Built and deployed Enterprise CMS environment for the launch of their Single Shopper core application.  ? Created a Self-server VMware stack for developers to build and deploy code in a CI/CD manner, allowing them to reset a standard static VMware infrastructure.  ? Created 3 separate environments for Test, UAT, and Production  ? Utilized SaltStack to automate server configurations  ? Utilized Jenkins to create pipelines and seamless code deploys with BitBucket as our SCM.  ? Assisted in the designing and implementation of an Enterprise Openstack environment for DDMI utilizing the Canonicals offering of Openstack.  ? Produced automation scripts for server-side provisioning of hardware up to the provisioning of the base applications with SaltStack.  ? Created automated deployments for multiple environments including server-side builds, deployment of Java based applications and provisioning of Tomcat instances. Linux/Infrastructure and Automation Administrator Spectrum Net Designs September 2016 to July 2017 Scaled the front-end web servers running CentOS and Nginx to handle multiple sites and more traffic.  ? Configured VMware to properly handle resources, adding hosts, updating ESXi on all host.  ? Developed a storage efficient disaster recovery plan that included S3 integration with backups and automated rebuilding of all VMs through the use of Ansible.  ? Migrated multiple Windows server versions 2000, 2003, and 2007 to Linux to manage DNS, firewall, and SAN aspects instead of being on windows.  ? Built a new colocation for redundancy at Switch Data center which included, configuring Cisco switches for 2 DMZ and an internal network, installed and configured new dell Equalogic to be SAN optimized for high write environment Support Systems Administrator and Spam Threat Protection Greenview Data Inc January 2015 to August 2016 Systems Administrator/Spam Analysis  ? Wrote extensive regex filters in Perl and bash to combat Spam from a multiltude of sources.  ? Worked exclusively with a RedHat based environment that was managed in house(VMWare) and in AWS.  ? Managed 45 individual mail and spam analysis clusters that form the entire spam and email hosting network across 4 continents.  ? Managed IpTables based firewalls, performed routine Redhat server maintenance, provided constant configuration update and management within the postfix/sendmail mail and spam filtering system.    *Available for Weekend & Evening Shifts also Able to Relocate Nationwide Education High school or equivalent Skills Linux, Devops, AWS, Jenkins