Information Technology Specialist Information Technology Specialist Information Technology Specialist - Active Duty Navy Hampton, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Technology Specialist Active Duty Navy - Virginia Beach, VA October 2017 to Present • Plan, train, maintain, and operate various tactical mobile communication radios in the LF to EHF frequency range in support of Naval Special Warfare operations. Maintain accountability of Controlled Cryptographic Items and inventories with zero incidents.  • Systems administrator on both classified and unclassified Special Operations Command networks; responsible for enforcing security policies utilizing administrative, technical and physical controls, implementing router, switch, and firewall configurations, providing cyber security training for users, and network management in compliance with FIPS 199, FIPS 200, and NIST SP 800-53A.  • Plans communication requirements for Navy SEALs pre-deployment training. Conducts briefings with military stakeholders. Research and acquire new technologies and solutions to help complete secure communications for mission. Senior Systems Administrator Active Duty Navy - Washington, DC August 2014 to October 2017 • Supervised 15 Message Center Operators (MCOs) and system administrators in support of DIA's message processing information systems; handling on the average over 700,000 daily messages.  • Provided written and oral reports to supervisors detailing system statistics and log analysis on both classified and unclassified information systems monitoring for signs of security incidents.  • Responsible for multiple servers, both Windows and Unix operating system. Conducted EAP/DRP exercises on servers to support backup and BCP exercises.  • Exercised data correlation using trend analysis; utilized syslog, event, application and security logs.  • Maintained shift schedules in support of a 24/hr. manned message center ensuring 100 percent manpower and personnel accountability. Provided information security training to privilege level users. Systems Administrator Active Duty Navy - San Diego, CA August 2010 to August 2014 • Performed network administration maintenance on seven Windows servers, two Cisco routers, four Cisco switches and 200 computers on both classified and unclassified networks.  • Managed the networks security posture and group policies based on best practices and compliance regulations. Administrated access controls and provisioned access based on policy.  • Supervised and trained six helpdesk technicians; resolved software and hardware issues keeping trouble tickets to a minimum on a weekly basis.  • Performed operations and maintenance on eight High Frequency (HF) and 12 Ultra High Frequency (UHF) communications equipment; as one of the technicians that maintained the cryptographic equipment, conducted weekly training on operating procedures.  • Performed software installations and system updates to workstations and servers ensuring IAVA patches and programs were installed based applicable STIG guidelines. Shift Manager COLDSTONE CREAMERY - Woodbridge, VA August 2007 to December 2009 • Supervised 15 sales associates ensuring a clean organized environment with professional and prompt customer service; conducted daily inspections of the kitchen and lounge areas at the end of each shift and provided daily training to the sales associates.  • Maintained 100 percent accountability with no incidences for two registers and one safe by inventorying all cash, coin and credit receipts at the beginning and end of each shift.  • Received and prepared customer orders to include but not limited to individual ice cream orders, special orders, cups, cones, cakes, and drinks. Education Associate of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology NORTHERN VIRGINIA COMMUNITY COLLEGE - Woodbridge, VA 2014 Bachelor's Degree in Information Technology in Information Security GEORGE MASON UNIVERSITY - Fairfax, VA Skills CompTIA, NETWORK ANALYSIS (9 years), Information Security (9 years), Operations (9 years), Active Directory, Networking, Windows, Microsoft Office, Access Controls, Mac, Technical Support, Cyber (9 years), Security Controls, Vmware, Windows 7, Customer Service, access Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/harry-j-scott-jr-7000b4108 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ June 2014 to August 2021 CompTIA CySA+ August 2018 to August 2021 Additional Information TS/SCI eligible w/ CI Poly