Project Manager / Senior Systems Project Manager / Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> Project Manager / Senior Systems Engineer Harrisonburg, VA Work Experience Project Manager / Senior Systems E-N Computers - Waynesboro, VA September 2015 to Present Reporting to the Service Director in a key leadership role. Responsible for developing documentation; for identifying, developing, and managing standards and change management; coordinating documentation of client's current systems and configuration to the subsequent alignment of their systems to company standards.  Ensuring that each client experiences proactive network administration through a regularly scheduled process. Develop key performance indicators (KPIs) for technical documentation and alignment. Responsible for the management and administration of tools and documentation needed for day to day operations such as wikis, service checklists and assigning tasks to technical staff.    * Overhauled company's documentation system, including all client documentation for 55+ company clients to the new ITIL-based system, improving service call efficiency and reliability for the service desk.  * Created process and procedures to drastically improve server recovery times, allowing clients to maintain production while servers actively recovered.  * Identified RAID puncture issue that crashed various client's servers. Implemented attack plan to mitigate further crashes with proactive monitoring, maintenance, and best practices for ongoing server builds to avoid future issues.  * Lead technical resource for company's largest clients. Systems Administrator AirDye Solutions - Harrisonburg, VA April 2014 to September 2015 Oversee all company infrastructure and cloud resources, serving as lead engineer for networks, servers, data retention, and disaster recovery for technology startup offering environmentally friendly printing solutions.  Hired for fearlessness and confidence in the face of challenge, stepped into chaotic systems environment, creating and implementing technology roadmap that stabilized failing network, servers, and phone systems.  * Created and implemented disaster recovery and business continuity plan that fixed key issues - no backup done for nearly a year and no offsite data storage. Tore down the non-functioning backup system, building a robust backup solution that ensured daily backups - and absolutely no data loss.  * Installed affordable environmental monitoring system - where none existed before - that eliminated downtime and losses due to typical equipment overheats and failures.  * Tapped into cloud resources to bring stability to the daily production environment, reducing trouble calls from 15 to 20 per day to virtually none today.  * Implemented solution to relieve overburdened VMware hosts prone to poor performance and downtime.  * Implemented new change management and documentation system.  * Improved user experience with remote access, switching to more reliable ISP. Added directory services to servers at remote locations to reduce interdependence among systems - and limit the spread of problems.  * Cleaned up Active Directory, removing thousands of unused accounts and outdated policies. Reorganized OUs with a more instinctive structure that offered greater ease of policy management.  * Team Leader to junior team members providing coaching, development, and training.  * Led phone system overhaul in New York office to combat outages and poor call quality, earning "rock star" recognition for flawless execution of a project that involved identification of new vendor to meet needs and coordination of migration without a single missed call.  * Recovered legacy NetWare server with database housing all company production data for past 25 years, succeeding where hired "expert" could not. Recreated data and built new VMware host to house it, earning high praise from the CEO for "outside the box thinking" for an effort that kept entire company production from complete shutdown.  * Expedited transfer of all IT services in support of the move of New York office. Called into a project only 6 weeks before move date, upgraded and transferred systems meeting new disaster recovery standards, delivering results with only 15 minutes of network and phone downtime.  * Created and maintained SharePoint and Lync services to facilitate corporate objective to move to a paperless office and improve collaboration between remote team members. Systems Engineer Trinitas Regional Medical Center - Elizabeth, NJ March 2011 to July 2013 Contracted to Trinitas, a 530-bed medical facility and one of the largest private hospitals in New Jersey. Provided mission-critical technical support for hospital operations across five main campuses plus dozens of smaller clinics and offices. Served as lead engineer for backups, disaster recovery, data retention and other vital hospital systems.  * Overhauled unreliable backup system, implementing a new protocol that achieved the target (no data lost) when data loss was frequent before.  * Created asset management/life cycle tracking system - on client's wish list, but previously neglected - rolling out a system that brought order and organization to tedious, but important operation. Minimized downtime, asset loss, and emergency orders while ensuring thousands of users are always fully equipped to deliver patient care.  * Created new processes for technicians that streamlined new computer set up, implementing standardized computer hardware and standardized set-up images that cut half-day process per system to mere minutes. Switched to a new vendor that offered better services and pricing, engaging them as a partner in streamlining deployment.  * Reduced network downtimes by creating an improved process by implementing a new configuration server. Allowing for easy import/export of all switch and router configurations; network hardware configured to auto-save any changes or save configurations monthly to the server. In concert with new asset management system, cutting replacement time that had been measured in hours to minutes.  * Managed the Information Technologies hardware disaster recovery strategies for the medical center. Including leading our DR team for the solutions testing at a SunGard facility.  * Re-evaluated Disaster Recovery Plan, identified disconnects between hospital expectations and actual service delivery on a $35,000/yr. service contract with outside vendor. Advocated for and won reassessment of the remote campus-based system using virtualization to guarantee a return to operability in a shorter time at lower costs.  * Project lead for the medical center's installation of the new Storage Area Network and cloud-based Radiology image archiving system.  * Created new processes and procedures for help desk technicians that drastically decreased user downtime and length of service calls. CCNA Instructor AVTECH Institute of Technology - Eatontown, NJ February 2011 to June 2013 Led lecture and lab instruction for Cisco applications, providing extracurricular support to assist students in gaining Cisco certification. Stepped in to maintain/improve systems and ensure continuity and connectivity of wired and wireless LANs - to enhance employee and student productivity.  * Initiated upgrades to router, security appliance, and switch lab exercises to provide a better hands-on learning environment for students.    ARCNET (Architectural & Engineering Services for Telecommunications), Holmdel, NJ Sep 1997 to Sep 2009 Network Administrator June 1999 to September 2009 Network Technician (9/97 to 5/99)  Oversaw network management for full-service architectural and engineering design firm. Served as team leader for network administrators and support desk technicians. Recommended and implemented projects to maintain/improve systems efficiency and availability. Assured continuity in short-term planning to achieve long-term goals.  * Taking over in the lead role overhauled the poorly managed systems and substantially improve the user experience. Exponentially increased server uptime through system redesign. Drastically reduced eliminated dreaded "blue screen" occurrences with the rollout of stable software/hardware configuration.  * Developed policies and drove enhancement projects aimed at safeguarding and ensuring ready availability of $85 million in corporate data assets. Implemented reliable back-up and restore the system, building robust tape rotation, storage, and cataloging plan that eliminated data loss during tenure.  * Overhauled e-mail system, upgrading Exchange servers to better manage the huge volume of e-mail. Resolved major SPAM issue to increase productivity, identifying and implementing messaging firewall that stopped 1 million SPAM messages monthly by blocking mail from troublesome IP addresses by country.  * Implemented project for accounting group that substantially improved the timeliness of billing and other operations. Project team rebuilt system over the holiday weekend, setting up new financial server and workstations with no disruption to the department's productivity.  * Created policies and initiatives to enhance user productivity and promote best security practices. Developed and delivered formal and informal training programs. Offered employees lunchtime computer security seminars to improve overall corporate security. Education Bachelor of Science in Geology Richard Stockton College of New Jersey - Pomona, NJ Skills disaster recovery (7 years), Exchange (10+ years), firewall (10+ years), security (10+ years), training. (10+ years), Vmware (7 years), Networking (10+ years), Servers (10+ years), Scheduling, Outlook, budget, Estimating, Maintenance Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/sschilling Certifications/Licenses ITIL Foundation in IT Service Management CCNA CCNA Security CCDA VCA-Data Center Virtualization MCSE (exams pending) National Security Agency-CNSS 4011 Security Recognition Additional Information Expertise:  ? Network Management  ? Network Security  ? Disaster Recover  ? Project Management    Core Competencies  * Serving as key IT resource, staying abreast of new trends and technologies to drive IT initiatives.  * Designing and implementing system/network enhancements and expansions, evaluating needs to deliver cost-effective, custom-fit solutions that maximize user productivity while minimizing IT costs.  * Building/rebuilding systems, planning, designing, and configuring network equipment to deliver the best in uptime and reliability while meticulously documenting work to ensure long-term continuity.  * Protecting a company's systems and data assets, developing and implementing policies and procedures that reflect the industry's best practices for network administration, disaster recovery, business continuity and security maximization.  * Providing coaching, formal, and informal training to improve overall corporate knowledge base.    TECHNOLOGY SKILLS    Servers: VMware, MS Server, MS SQL, MS Exchange 5.5-2010, Office365 Administrator, Amazon Web Services  Operating Systems: All Microsoft OS, Linux Ubuntu, Mac, Android  Networking Skills/Protocols:  Active Directory, DNS, WINS, DHCP, Cisco & Meraki Wireless, Dell Compellent SAN, Cisco NAS, HP Tape Libraries, Google search appliances, load balancers, Active Directory, mobile devices, VPN, NAS, SAN, NAT, LAN, WAN, iSCSI, FC, SCCM    Security Tools/Skills:  Firewall, messaging firewalls, network intrusion and prevention, data backup and retention, disaster recovery & business continuity    Applications: Backup Exec, Veeam, Websense, Solar Winds, Labtech, ConnectWise, IT Glue, MS Office