IT Engineer IT Engineer IT Engineer - Transperfect Translations Work Experience IT Engineer Transperfect Translations - San Francisco, CA September 2016 to Present Support and maintain the high availability of the global corporate infrastructure (90+ locations)  to enable day-to-day productivity for 5000 users in terms of emails use, data access, and applications  ? Responsible to build and update the physical and virtual servers for new offices used globally by developers and corporate users to provide a secure and dedicated location for applicational  uses  ? Implemented the current endpoint and data response solution by serving as the technical lead  throughout the proof of concept step when various solutions were picked to the final rollout of the product responsible for the security of all Windows, Linux, and Mac systems  ? Created custom scripts and playbooks to assist in system administrator tasks, such as confirming  off-site replication and pushing out critical updates to remote servers  ? Act as an escalated resource to the Helpdesk department by answering technical questions and sharing information through my detailed documented pages on our internal knowledge base Senior Systems Administrator The Segal Group - New York, NY October 2013 to December 2015 Ensured the availability of the company's main data center located in NYC which served as the primary hub for all company's data through our email and text notification system and weekly  walk-throughs  ? Implemented the switch to the company's centralized document management system which eventually held more than a million documents and then serving as the technical lead for major  upgrades and issues  ? Created Sharepoint sites for the company's intranet and extranet environment which provided  accessible platforms for clients and users to share information necessary for collaboration  ? Refined our internal IT policies to adhere to industry compliances by working alongside  management and building an organized site to easily access and update this information Systems Administrator December 2007 to September 2013 Managed backup environments, both on-site repository and off-site tapes, for the 11 US offices  to serve as a reliable emergency source for the company's data  ? Maintained and supported the Blackberry Enterprise server for 300+ users for a true 24/7  messaging service  ? Responsible for new account creations on the various application platforms used to assist in users' daily work productivity output  ? Maintained the inventory for software, machines, and technology devices through our Helpdesk  system to quickly access our current resource usage using reports and queries  ? Served as the main resource for the corporate executives for all their technology needs which required professional interactions and timely responses along with serving as a visible  representative of the IT department Network/ Systems Administrator Kasowitz, Benson, Torres & Friedman LLP - New York, NY January 2005 to November 2007 Instituted Windows 2003 and MS SQL 2000 Servers to enhance server and database  infrastructure for the corporate environment to help support the applications used by the lawyers and litigation support staff  ? Improved client remote accessibility by maintaining the performance and availability of Exchange 2003 and Citrix servers to allow 24/7 access to the vital systems, such as emails and  client documents  ? Architected the company-wide Blackberry service for 100+ lawyers and served as the technical  lead for all major upgrades and issues  ? Responsible for the firm's daily and weekly backups for on-site and off-site locations to safely  secure the firm's client data Technical Support Specialist December 2003 to December 2004 Responsible for the inventory of the firm's software, computers and telecommunication devices  to ensure a reliable cost-effective tracking system  ? Served as the main technical specialist for the firm's head partners which showcased the visibility of the IT department  ? Provided hands-on desktop and phone support for 300+ users in the local office which showcased strong trouble-shootig skills  ? Troubleshooted issues with the firm's document management system and litigation support  applications Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science New Jersey Institute of Technology - Newark, NJ May 2003 Skills DHCP, Group Policy, Vmware, Active Directory