Systems Engineer, Consultant <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer, Consultant Systems Engineer, Consultant - XMS Solutions Spotswood, NJ I am a Systems Engineer and a VBA Developer and am an Expert in File Share Migration and Access Remediation (P2V, P2P, V2P, Win2NAS/SAN or any other combination I have probably worked on it). My core desires to resolve issues drives my strongest skills in scripting and data manipulation. I am proficient in many areas detailed below as well as a host of other technologies. I have worked both with some of the smallest companies in the region to one the largest corporations in the world which give me an insight to the different hurdles involved with the scales of those environments and most anything in between. From building environments from scratch to managing global deployments, there are not many challenges I can’t handle. Work Experience Systems Engineer, Consultant XMS Solutions - Henderson, NV May 2017 to Present Provide consulting services to improve security and systems operability for client environments.  • Developed shared data remediation tools to automate and simplify processes using VBA and PowerShell.  • Designed and documented shared data infrastructure, naming standards, and share mappings.  • Created automated PowerShell script to inventory unique NTFS permissions on shares.  • Designed and Implemented DFS infrastructures.  • Constructed data remediation strategies to minimize user impact.  • Assisted with SharePoint site upgrades including updating XML and VBScripts.  • Analyzed GPO infrastructures and developed remediation action plans and designed future state documentation for the environments.  • Beyond Trust Product Specialist - Deployed BeyondTrust Products to client sites to improve systems security and manageability to automate security management.    PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Systems Engineer, Senior Consultant NTT DATA - New York, NY February 2017 to April 2017 at Moody's  Developed and executed strategy for remediating NTFS & Share permissions.  • Worked with team to identify and address issues with the current process to ensure a fast and stable remediation strategy going forward.  • Developed automation toolkit using PowerShell Scripts and Excel VBA to analyze and remediate file share permissions eliminating the need to manually modify permissions through the GUI.  • Documented planned process and ensured that the detailed logging of all changes maintained throughout.  • Executed aggressive plan to remediate NTFS and Share permissions for 300+ shares in 6 weeks by automating key points in the process. Systems Engineer, Client Platform Engineering - File Services JPMorgan Chase - Jersey City, NJ June 2010 to May 2016 Dynamic team member tasked with designing and implementing solutions to automate and secure the environment throughout the corporation using a JIRA based system to manage product lifecycles.  • Developed and maintained VBA applications and VBScripts to remediate and report on file server security as well as working with multiple SQL databases and Active Directory across the firm which automated key points in the processes.  • Member of the team to develop the global shared/home data security policy and tools to maintain consistency across the Shared File Services Infrastructure.  • Designed and implemented global internal High Availability SFTP infrastructure for back-office communications serving over 3 million transfers weekly which included over 40 SFTP servers globally to remediate risk concerns.  • Developed and implemented automated monitoring system using VBScript, SQL, SSIS and SSRS an IIS FTP/SFTP transmission log collection, monitoring and reporting infrastructure.  • Designed IIS FTP process for gracefully migrating users from FTP to SFTP using group permissions and IIS Policies.  Systems Administrator, Global Infrastructure Operations - File Services  • Develop and maintain reporting tools and scripts, some of which tie together data from active directory and multiple SQL data sources to create reports revolving around data usage and permissions. Originally a 5-day Error-Prone Process of reporting automated down to 15-30 minute reliable and repeatable process.  • Developed PowerShell scripts to automate bulk Active Directory group administration tasks. Helped the team increase productivity from days to minutes by automating most of the process.  • Perform inter-forest and extra-forest data migrations of varying complexity and sizes using ITSM to manage deployments resulting in approximately 25 TB of data migrated annually with minimal user impact.  • Support global file server and Internal IIS infrastructure to maintain stability on an ongoing basis. Systems Administrator, Consultant Peak Systems - Jersey City, NJ 2009 to 2010 Constructed detailed reports on user account group memberships and folder rights to successfully migrate users to a new environment with minimal user impact or work disruption for JPMorgan Chase.  • Novell to Active Directory Data Migration Project - Carried out a rigorous plan to exit Novell data servers within a finite timeline on to an Active Directory Domain.  • Strategic Data Center Migration Project which involved Migrating user's Data and servers from non-strategic Data sites within an aggressive timeline.  • Assisted with the development of an automated data migration tool using VBA scripts to reduce the overall complexity and increase the accuracy of future data migration efforts as well as meeting strict firm-wide standards.    PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Systems Administrator FineLine Technology - New York, NY 2007 to 2009 Responsible for performing server build-outs and troubleshooting server issues, including Exchange issues, system slowness, and responding to server outages/critical events.  • Developed and maintained login scripts, created and supported Active Directory environments, and performed basic troubleshooting associated with networks.  • Inspected and reviewed systems and network configurations to improve performance and continuity.  • Provided support for Firewalls, FTP, IIS Web Servers, Blackberry server as well as any and all other products required to run a small business end to end with enterprise style services. Systems Administrator JPMorgan Chase - New York, NY 1999 to 2007 Monitored and supported 15K+ systems including Windows Servers, Active Directory, File and Print configurations, and maintaining backups.  • Managed relocation/upgrade projects (including data transfer), created and managed over 150 desktop images, and maintained/created desktop builds to support clients in the event of an emergency.  • Served as NT Domain and Active Directory Administrator, responsible for managing accounts, transferring data, updating/building servers, managing DHCP, and performing server maintenance and monitoring.  • Redesigned the implementation of Kixtart Login Scripting to improve manageability and efficiency.  • Designed, programmed, and implemented scripts using Kixtart and VBScript to automate the gathering of computer inventory information in order to create reports and distribute MS Security Patches.  • Received awards for providing significant cost savings (over one million dollars) due to significant automation, outstanding support and work performance. Education Diploma in Computer Programming in Computer Programming The Chubb Institute Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology University of Phoenix Skills SCRIPTING, VBA, VBSCRIPT, VISIO, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, DFS, DHCP, NETWORK CABLING, DNS, ETHERNET, SECURITY, SSRS, SQL, JIRA, AIX, LINUX, UNIX, UX, MAINFRAME Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/mjconrad https://miconjae.wixsite.com/resume Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Platforms: Windows Advanced/Standard/Enterprise/SBS Server 2000/2008/2010/2012/2016; Windows Vista/7/10; MS Active Directory: Administration, Design and Implementation; Cisco; Familiarity with: UNIX (AIX, HP/UX), Linux, Mainframe  Applications: Scripting (VBA, PowerShell, VBScript, Kixtart, and Batch); MS SQL, SSIS, SSRS;  JIRA; ITSM; MS DFS; DHCP; DNS; Microsoft Office (Excel, Word, PowerPoint, Visio, Project, Access); Quest Active Role Server (ARS); Varonis DatAdvantage; vSphere, FileCensus; BeyondTrust (BeyondInsight, PowerBroker, Retina)  Network Technologies: Ethernet; Routers; Switches; Network Cabling; SAN; 802.11a/b/g/n (Wireless); SonicWall Firewall; Security