System Administrator <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator Bowie, MD Work Experience System Administrator Precise Accounting & Tax Service - Takoma Park, MD November 2017 to May 2019 • Purchasing and managing hardware equipment and software licenses  • Building and imaging PCs for deployment using PXE boot  • Ensuring that systems have all necessary updates and proprietary software using SCCM  • Providing remote support using Skype and Bomgar to make system configurations  • Conducting on-site user security awareness training  • Troubleshooting DNS and DHCP network connectivity issues  • Ensuring that new systems are company compliant  • Writing SQL Scripts to Manage and Repair tables, index, and views  • Tracking and monitoring database performance using Enterprise Manager Console  • Creating Tablespaces, Users, and Roles for Database as needed  • Performing and managing database backups using Oracle RMAN    Precise Tax Seasonal 2015 - 2018 Windows OS Refresh Project  • Upgrading Windows 7 Enterprise to Windows 8.1 Version OS with data migration  • Upgrading Windows 8.1 Enterprise to Windows 10 Pro Version OS with data migration  • Appropriately mapping network drives and shared folders  • Configuring NTFS, user access and groups  • Replacing and installing network printers  • Installing proprietary Software installation including TaxWise 2017, Outlook, Adobe Reader, QuickBooks, Microsoft Office Tier 3 Data Center Operations Specialist T. Rowe Price - Owings Mills, MD December 2018 to April 2019 • Providing immediate action as a first responder to issues in the Production Environment  • Troubleshooting Linux server issues, websites, virtual network devices using PuTTY  • Executing and documenting scheduled web server restarts, cluster restarts and ripple restarts using CA APM Introscope Web Application Management  • Documenting and managing technical Linux commands and procedures in ServiceNow  • Utilizing Outlook, Skype, Slack, and ServiceNow notify to alert essential personnel during critical T. Rowe Price issues such as facility and data center alerts  • Triaging technical server issues and Violations using PagerDuty and New Relic  • Monitoring application, cluster and node activity using CA Wily Introscope  • Ensuring company-wide server cycles start and complete as scheduled  • Creating, editing and monitoring weekly server backup schedules on Excel Spreadsheets  • Moderating and providing support and troubleshooting for Cisco WebEx Conferencing  • Collaborating and communicating with all Global Net technical support teams to communicate effective strategies and solutions for each technical issues  • Executing IBM Mainframe Data Changes when necessary  • Executing Oracle Database Data Changes when necessary  • Providing 24-hour support and training for Tier 1 and Tier 2 staff when needed  • Spectrum performance and health monitoring of Unix servers and network hardware via:  ? Active SNMP and ICMP (ping) polling  ? Reacting to traps sent by monitored devices  ? SystemEDGE OS and application monitors  ? VAIM monitoring for AIX Lpars  ? ZONEAIM monitoring of Solaris zones  ? CA Application Performance Management and CA Spectrum Avaya Aura IT Programmer / NGS System Engineer Avaya, Inc - Columbia, MD January 2017 to February 2018 • Installing and configuring Avaya Aura Communication remotely using Skype  • Specializing in client care while Maintaining Confidentiality, Professionalism, Integrity  ? Managing Avaya Users and Profiles for users at sites in the United States and India  ? Producing Siebel reports for my team and import files for new sites and training  ? Documenting and Resolving tickets on a daily basis using Seibel and Remedy  ? Remotely providing Avaya Site Training assistance with troubleshooting connectivity issues via Phone and Skype  ? Setting up AAC Conferencing features upon request  ? Collaborating and communicating with Avaya team members weekly to implement specialized solutions for clients  ? Installed and configured  ? Programming Avaya attributes which enable clients use features such as:  ? Using conference bridges  ? One-touch button Calling  ? Directory Access  ? Sending all calls  ? Call forwarding  ? Group Paging  ? Parking calls Desktop/Helpdesk Analyst Federal Depository Insurance Corporation - Arlington, VA May 2016 to December 2016 Providing 24/7 technical support for FDIC field employees and at all FDIC locations  ? Managing and configuring Active Directory user accounts  ? Setting up Outlook profiles and Troubleshooting Outlook and Exchange Issues  ? Installing FDIC-Issued software per request after approval  ? Troubleshooting Citrix Zen Applications and issues  ? Managing VDesk Virtual machines using VMware  ? Troubleshooting PIV Smartcard login issues  ? Mapping network drives and shared folders  ? Troubleshooting Remote Access using Remote Desktop, FastAccess, and WEBVPN  ? Troubleshooting SharePoint and Specialized FDIC sites  ? Creating and Resolving tickets using both Remedy and ServiceNow Applications  ? Troubleshooting Apple products such as iPhone, iPad, MacBook Air and MacBook Pro  ? Configuring Blackberry Enterprise Profiles and Avaya IP Voicemails per request  FDIC Asset Management Duties (FDIC Hardware Refresh Project)  ? Re-imaging and configuring computers to reuse for new clients and VIP personnel  ? Asset Management Team-Taking accurate inventory for all FDIC-issued equipment  ? Reporting lost or stolen FDIC-Issued equipment  ? Managing RICOH and HP Network printers, devices and peripherals  ? Leading technician on the imaging team processing 50+ laptops per week during refresh Tier 2 Data Analyst/ Helpdesk Analyst Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) - Washington, DC August 2015 to November 2015 • Providing Tier 1 and 2 desktop support and hardware training for EPA employees at Potomac Yard (VA) and Constitution Ave (DC) as needed  ? Responding to and documenting all issues using the Remedy ticket management system  ? Prioritizing and resolving service call issues according to severity of the issue and SLA  ? Managing office print server and troubleshooting DHCP network issues  ? Assigning and re-assigning network printer for Xerox WorkCentre, HP Office Jet, Canon Image Class or Lexmark models  ? Utilizing Bomgar Remote desktop to identify application or network communication issue thoroughly reported by customer and documenting client experience  ? Worked progressively from a Tier 1 PC Technician and was Promoted to a Tier 2 Data Analyst for the remainder of the EPA/DELL Hardware Refresh Project  ? Asked to remain on the project and worked closely with the Project Manager (Malcolm Dixon) to complete the project successfully with commendations from EPA employees    EPA Tier 2 Data Analyst Duties  ? Ensuring all Dell laptops are received per shipping invoice, document serial numbers for all new inventory and Assigning Hardware and Creating CSV Uploads for each user PC  ? Coordinating shipping dates and content with EPA and DELL personnel  ? Assisting imaging team with Win7 OS installation on standard desktop for EPA desktop deployment as needed for support  ? Overseeing PC operations by Tier 1 Technicians in accordance to EPA/DELL Standards Tier 2 Desktop Support Technician Agence France-Presse (AFP) - Washington, DC February 2015 to May 2015 • Providing Tier 2 and Tier 3 Technical On-site & Remote Support for AFP News Agency  • Providing On-site, White-glove technical support at White House AFP office  • Documenting and recording all support calls and resolution using Remedy ticket system  • Maintaining documentation for computer equipment loaners to support for Traveling Journalists, Photographers and Reporters as issues are encountered  • Troubleshooting and Configuring Lenovo laptops for AFP employees  • Executing scans for Virus Removal and Data Monitoring with Sophos Antivirus Software  • Executing scheduled weekly backup with Shadow Protect and Storage Craft Software  • Troubleshooting technical video display issues (LG, Sony, Samsung, etc.)  • Providing and supporting temporary LAN setup for special events such as Government Conferences; Video for meetings and seminars at the IMF building    AFP Hardware and System Maintenance  • Configuring and troubleshooting iMac, Power Mac G5 Desktops, and MacBook Laptops while performing system upgrades as needed  • Configuring and troubleshooting Lenovo Carbon X1, Yoga and Dell Latitude while performing system upgrades as needed  • Configuring and troubleshooting and configuring IPad and conference room equipment  • Configuring and troubleshooting smart office devices such as smart locks, smart lighting, office cameras and smart thermostats  • Troubleshooting OLED, LED, LCD televisions, monitors and connections  • Troubleshooting DSL cameras and data storage equipment    ADDITIONAL WORK PROJECTS Systems Analyst Systemadix - Rockville, MD June 2014 to July 2014 • Setting up and Configuration of 86 Dell OptiPlex 7010 Desktops  • Setting up and Configuring Nortel 1140E IP Phones for 86 users  • Installing Software such as Adobe Reader, Outlook, and other proprietary software Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Networks and Cybersecurity in Computer Networks and Cybersecurity University of Maryland University College June 2020 Certification University of Maryland University College June 2020 Certificate Computer Career Institute at John Hopkins University March 2012