Salesforce Administrator Salesforce <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Salesforce Administrator - NESCOMM TECHNOLOGIES N.A Rosenberg, TX • Around 14+ Years of experience in IT with around 4+ years of experience in Salesforce.com CRM Platform as an Administrator including analysis, modeling, design, testing and implementation on various business domains like Insurance, healthcare, Media and Retail and 10+ years of experience as System Admin.  • Salesforce Certified Salesforce Administrator.  • Strong knowledge of sales, marketing, service and support automation.  • Experience in Salesforce Lightning, Migrating the Classic user to Lightning. Worked with Standard /Custom Object, created workflow, process builder, Approval process, Lead management, Opportunity Management.  • Implemented Security and Sharing rules at Object, Field and Record levels for different users in the organization. Also created various profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy.  • Hands on experience in implementing Validation Rules, Field Dependencies, Assignment Rules, Work Flows, Process Builder and Approval Processes for automated alerts, field updates & Email generation according to application requirements.  • Have extensive experience in implementation of Custom Objects, Custom Tabs and Role based Page Layouts and Record Types.  • Experience in lead case management (Web-to-Lead, Email-to-Case).  • Expertise in creating Profiles, Roles, Users, Tasks and actions.  • Experience in Salesforce Customization, Data Validation, Sales, Marketing, Customer Service and Support Administration.  • Knowledge in developing Email Template, setting up Landing Pages, build forms Create various Automation rules.  • Experience on Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Custom Cloud, Force.com Platform and Salesforce lightening.  • Extensive experience using Salesforce.com's Administration, Territory management, Creating Roles, Profiles, Page Layouts, Workflow Alerts, Actions and Approval Workflow Data Validation.  • Knowledge in wide range of languages and technologies such as Apex, Visual force, Java, HTML, CSS, AJAX, DOM and JavaScript.  • Provided ongoing salesforce.com maintenance and administration services including periodic data cleansing, custom objects, workflows.  • Excellent work ethics, self-motivated, quick learner and team oriented. Continually provided value added services to the clients through thoughtful experience and excellent communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Administrator NESCOMM TECHNOLOGIES N.A 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with business partners to realize the full capabilities of Salesforce.com CRM.  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Experience in Salesforce Lightning, Migrating the Classic user to Lightning. Worked with Standard /Custom Object, created workflow, process builder, Approval process, Lead management, Opportunity Management.  • Used Salesforce Automation (SFA) for Sales Lead Management, Campaign Management, Opportunity Management, Account and Contact Management.  • Analyzed all the customizations and developments and tried to suggest possible ways for the new enhancements that we get from the Sales people.  • Automated sharing rules whenever there is a new change in Sales teams instead of using an Apex trigger.  • Worked with various Salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports, and Opportunities.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists and other components on record detail pages and edit pages.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, field updates to implement business logic.  • Created Email templates, approval processes, approval page layouts and defined approval actions on them to automate the processes.  • Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and graphics) and Report Folders to assist managers to better utilize Salesforce as a sales tool and configured various Reports for different user profiles based on the organization's need.  • Created profiles and implemented Object and field level security to hide critical information on the profile users.  • Created users, roles, public groups and implemented role hierarchies, sharing rules and record level permissions to provide shared access among different users.  • Provided post-implementation support to assist end users in creating reports, dashboards and certain Administration tasks including creating and maintaining user profiles and privileges.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Import wizard, Salesforce.com Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, HTML, Java Script, Java, Web Services. Salesforce Administrator VIP Wireless Holdings 2015 to 2016 Responsibilities:  • Performed the detailed analysis of functional and technical requirements; designed &deployed the custom objects; identified the lookup and master-detail relationships; and created the junction objects. Demonstrated ability to translate customer requirements into specification.  • Provided data access reports to Compliance and Security ensuring that data and roles are properly defined and transparent.  • Designed and deployed Custom tabs, validation rules, Approval Processes and Auto-Response Rules for automating business logic.  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Implemented Email-to-Case, Web-to-Case entry and manual case entry for entering customer's cases in Cases Tab.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on record pages.  • Used field level security along with page layouts to manage access to certain fields.  • Introduce Salesforce Mobile for the corporate Mobile users in order to use several tools on the go.  • Worked on various Salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Cases, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Dashboards.  • Developed and configured various Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Created custom Dashboards for manager's home page and gave accessibility to dashboards for authorized people.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Involved in authoring Business Requirement Documents (BRD) into System Requirement Specifications (SRS) and identifying interface and business process specifications.  Environment: Salesforce CRM, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, HTML, Java Script, CSS, XHTML, DHTML, XML, Web Services, SOAP, UI, Oracle, SOQL, SQL SharePoint. Systems Administrator New Era Satellites 2004 to 2015 Responsibilities:  • Work on Salesforce CRM.  • Website development WordPress, Weebly and Joomla.  • Devise eye catching marketing campaigns on Constant contact, MailChimp.  • Design Newsletters & Website graphics on Photoshop.  • Troubleshoot LAN/WIFI connectivity, configured permissions folder rights.  • Performed software installations and upgrades to operating systems and layered software packages.  • Resolved any circuit, data issues, security and access control issues to ensure 24/7 system access. Managed domain users and groups in AD and create group policies in order to keep the network secured.  • End user technical support for Windows 7, 8 and 10.  • Project management, Design, Deployment, Technical Support.  • Design Commercial Audio/Video systems for places of worship, Hospitality industry.  • Devise Wired network, WIFI networks, Guest gate Portals.  • Securing private networks using firewalls, assigning TCP/IP, Subnets.  • Hardware upgrades as needed for Clients including CCTV, A/V equipment, Computers etc.  • Complete knowledge of Low voltage cabling and Code.  • Use of CRM to maintain customer accounts and Inventory.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, HTML, Java Script, CSS, XHTML, DHTML, XML, Web Services.    Competencies and Snapshot  • Strong background in user training, support, and documentation  • Team Leader of managing and completing projects on time  • Quality control and Productivity Improvement  • Known for professional, courteous, and effective communication  • Very high-resolution rate for daily incidents and requests Education Associate of Science in Chemistry College Pakistan - Houston, TX Skills Salesforce, Salesforce Admin, Apex Certifications/Licenses Salesforce Certified Administrator Present (Credential ID 20175272)    