Systems Administrator/Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Engineer Systems Administrator/Engineer - University Southern California ISI Long Beach, CA Work Experience Systems Administrator/Engineer University Southern California ISI - Marina del Rey, CA November 2018 to Present • Build, configure, and maintain the Windows Server environment including Active Directory and all of its core components.  • Administer Microsoft Infrastructure Core Services; DNS, DHCP, DFS, WINS, Active Directory (AD), GPO's, File & Share Permissions.  • Manage and develop GPO's, Security Policy's.  • Administer Exchange 2016 On Premise with a DAG as well as Office 365.  • Administer Mixed VMWare environments, including VSphere, VCenter. VMotion, and Veeam Versions 5.5 - 6.5.  • Patch Servers using WSUS and SCCM • Migrated and upgraded 2003 and up servers and AD to Windows 2016 AD & Server o/s.  • Worked with Nagios monitoring software and Jitbit Ticketing systems.  • Onboard and off boarding Dell and HP Blade Servers.  • Used Dell CMC and HP's embedded on board Administrator admin tools Systems Administrator/ Datacenter Manager Trident Dental Labs Inc January 2017 to June 2018 • Administer the Infrastructure- Servers- Windows and Linux • Avaya VOIP Administrator • Administer and maintain Dell and HP server hardware.  • Maintain, upgrade as needed the Network, Wan, and Lan Dell and Fortinet, Cisco • Built and administer Dell Equal Logic San and Administered current EMC and NetApp Sans already in place.  • Administer, troubleshoot, and maintain Windows 2003-2012 R2 Server.  • Upgrade Hyper-V Windows 2003 AD and Domain to 2012 R2.  • Manage and develop GPO's, Security Policy's.  • Administer a Hyper-V Virtual Environment.  • Working knowledge of Slack, Bluejeans, Confluence applications.  • Provide support for the MS Exchange 2016 email environment.  • Administrated Fortinet firewall and NSA devices.  • Perform Microsoft Audits and ensured compliance.  • Perform American Express PCI Audits and maintained compliance.  • Symantec SEP, Veritas and Net Backup.  • Provide support for all mobile devices (Blackberry, iPhone, and iPad).  • Provide escalation support to the Helpdesk.  • Maintain the integrity of data within the Enterprise consisting of ensuring data is backed up and the various types of data storage are running optimally.  • Upgraded SCCM Server to SCCM 2016 and administered it.  • Administration of RSA Encryption Token Server.  • Upgraded their Lync/Skype Business Server to Lync Business Server 2016 Systems Engineer/ Infrastructure Administrator Torrance Refinery - Torrance, CA January 2016 to January 2017 I was the Systems Administrator for this site and several of their satellite offices and Labs in Vietnam, New York, and Los Vegas, to name a few.  • Build, configure, and maintain the Windows Server environment including Active Directory and all of its core components.  • Design, and Build their new Data Center from the ground up.  • Manage the Core services ( DHCP, DNS, IIS, SQL) • Administer, troubleshoot, and maintain Windows 2003-2012 R2 Server.  • Manage a Hyper-V Windows 2003 AD and Domain to 2012 R2.  • Manage and develop GPO's, Security Policy's.  • Administer Mixed Hyper-V and VMWare environments, including VSphere, VMotion, and Veeam 6.0 • Onboard and Off boarding Dell and HP Blade hardware in Data Center.  • Administer AVAYA VOIP Phone System • Provide support for the MS Exchange 2013 email environment.  • Administer Fortinet firewall and other NSA devices.  • Perform Microsoft Audits and ensured compliance.  • Perform American Express PCI Audits and maintained compliance.  • Symantec SEP, Veritas and Net Backup.  • Provide support for all mobile devices (Blackberry, iPhone, and iPad).  • Provide escalation support to the Helpdesk.  • Maintain the integrity of data within the Enterprise consisting of ensuring data is backed up and the various types of data storage are running optimally.  • Upgraded SCCM Server to SCCM 2016 and administered it.  • Administration of RSA Encryption Token Server.  • Upgraded their Lync/Skype Business Server to Lync Business Server 2016. Systems Administrator/Engineer Property Holding Group - Beverly Hills, CA August 2015 to January 2016 • Build, configure, and maintain the Windows Server environment including Active Directory and all of its core components.  • Administer Microsoft Infrastructure Core Services; DNS, DHCP, DFS, WINS, Active Directory (AD), GPO's, File & Share Permissions.  • Manage and develop GPO's, Security Policy's.  • Migrated 5000 Employees, Workstations, Exchange, and AD to new Forrest and Domain • Built and administer Dell Equal Logic San and Administered current EMC and NetApp Sans already in place.  • Administer Mixed Hyper-V and VMWare environments, including VSphere, VMotion, and Veeam.  • Provide support for the MS Exchange 2010 email environment.  • Administrated SonicWall firewall and NSA devices.  • Install and maintain HP Blade hardware environment.  • Perform Microsoft Audits and ensured compliance.  • Perform American Express PCI Audits and maintained compliance.  • Symantec SEP, Veritas and Net Backup.  • Provide support for all mobile devices (Blackberry, iPhone, and iPad).  • Acted as Tier 3 support for the Helpdesk for Servers and Networking escalations.  • Maintain the integrity of data within the Enterprise consisting of ensuring data is backed up and the various types of data storage are running optimally. Windows Systems Administrator/Domain Administrator Automotive Parts Warehouse - Harbor City, CA January 2015 to August 2015 • Primary architect of the Hyper V Infrastructure, including but not limited to the day-to-day administration.  • Principal expert on company NAS, file sharing, data archiving and backup technologies.  • Responsible for the 24x365 support of PCI compliant web, database, Windows Servers & Networks.  • Integral in the implementation and administration of the Exchange/Office 365 Domain Administration.  • Provide highest level support in a lead role to over 100 end users while managing MS Servers and Infrastructure.  • Administer Microsoft Infrastructure Core Services; DNS, DHCP, DFS, WINS, Active Directory (AD), GPO's, File & Share Permissions.  • Administer and Maintained Cisco Switches and Sonic Firewalls.  • Assist with new builds, Migrations, and Administration of Microsoft Server 2003-2012 R2, image builds and deployment to Microsoft workstations 7,8,8.1,10 • Administration of Skype for Business, Exchange/ Outlook.  • Administer the TCP/IP Database. Senior LAN/Network/ Systems Administrator AC Computer Connections - Charleston, IL November 2012 to October 2014 • IT Consultant for a chain of Financial Institutions.  • Installed, Configured, and Administrated Windows Enterprise Servers, Exchange Server.  • Configured and Installed Cisco Routers, Switches, and Firewalls.  • Primary responsibility for infrastructure Architecture and Implementation.  • Server and PC install, design and configuration.  • Routine backup and of Windows and Linux servers.  • AD Design and User, Groups, and OU Administration.  • Network, Servers, Router and Domain Security Administration.  • Office 365 Migrations and Administrator.  • Designed and administered DNS, WINS, GPO.  • Worked with Authentications for Kerberos, and Windows Authentication. Network Specialist II Eastern Illinois University - Charleston, IL January 2000 to November 2012 • VMware 5 & 5.5, ESXi, Server Administrator. Migrated over 150 Physical Windows, IIS, SQL, ORACLE, Application and File & Print Servers too VMWare 5.1 Virtual Enterprise.  • Maintained an Active Directory Domain of 6,000 + users, including the administration and configuration of multiple domain controllers, DNS, DHCP, file structures, permissions, organizational units, logon scripts & GPO's.  • Experience with VSphere, Vmotion, and Veeam.  • Symantec SEP, Veritas Net Backup • Windows Server 2000.-2012 Administrator. AD, Group, and Security Policy Configuration and management. Administration and support of Enterprise Core Servers, DNS, DHCP, WINS, DFS.  • Remedy Help Desk Ticket System use and backup administrator.  • P-Synch SSO Administration / Oracle 11G Administrator • Tier 2, and 3 support for PC, Mac, Servers or Network connectivity issues. Education Certificate Eastern Illinois University Charleston 2000 to 2008 AAS in Electronics Lakeland College - Mattoon, IL 1988 to 1990 Skills System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory, Vmware, SCCM, Red Hat, Redhat Additional Information MCP