Busness Systems Analyst Busness <span class="hl">Systems</span> Analyst Business Systems Analyst Sanger, TX Work Experience Busness Systems Analyst Nemerth Consulting - Sanger, TX February 2005 to July 2019 Job Task Synopsis:  • With minimal supervision, worked directly with internal and external business partners, outside vendors, end users, project managers, developers, and other analysts to help streamline communications on Agile project teams.  • Created business requirements and functional specifications for a system enhancements and full implementations.  • Facilitated cross-functional Joint Applications Development (JAD) sessions for detailed definition/gathering of functional and technical requirements with on-shore / off-shore business and technical resources via web-based communication and conference calls.  • Participated in projects using both the Waterfall and Agile/Scrum Methodologies on projects utilizing full Systems Development Life Cycle (SDLC), while using MS Sharepoint for storing project documents.  • Created test cases and test plans to instruct the product delivery personnel on the new software enhancements.  • Developed user acceptance criteria and conducted meeting with clients to present documents for sign-off.  • Prepared and conducted internal end user training of new processes utilizing both classroom and web-based tools.  • Team Lead that oversaw the daily operations of 3 - 5 staff members and mentored less experienced team members on several projects.  • Lead analyst handling the facilitation of Gap Analysis sessions in support of the 'as is' and 'to be' processes and administration of I/T risk management programs.  • Utilized the Microsoft Office suite (Word, Excel, Visio, Access, SharePoint, PowerPoint, & Project) to design and develop the following client deliverables: BRD, FRD, Project Scope Documents, Use Cases, User Stories, Workflow Diagrams (Swim Lane), User Interface Specifications, Gap Analysis Specifications, Wireframes, and other documentation to demonstrate business needs. Technical Business Systems Analyst / Application Administrator ExxonMobil Global Services Company, Inc - Dallas, TX June 1989 to February 2005 Notable Accomplishments:  • Application administrator for the HP/Peregrine Systems AssetCenter asset management Multi-Tier software application and web-based tool in a SQL and Oracle based environment provided technical support for daily operations of all regional asset coordinators globally.  • Negotiated contract with primary equipment vendor to maintain 95% on time delivery rate of 3 days and standardize equipment disposal process.  • Increased data integrity 98% by conducting data analysis, data mining (Oracle and SQL Databases), and creating a standardized process for daily import of new asset records into the inventory database utilizing MS Access, MS Excel packages, and Connect-it.    Job Task Synopsis:  • Managed and negotiated maintenance and software licensing agreements with primary vendors for support of both hardware and software assets.  • Interacts with customers to gather system requirements.  • Responsible for creating system documentation, as well as end-user and project management documentation.  • Prepared business requirements and functional specifications.  • Performed application, system and regression testing.  • Worked with the technical and business partners to develop and implements SaaS tools and processes.  • Created test cases and test plans to instruct the product delivery personnel on the new software enhancements.  • Participated and/or oversaw UTA efforts on multiple system enhancement projects.  • Lead training of region asset analyst stuff globally.  • Lead analyst on the project team that worked the beginning to end project lifecycle to develop and implement the standard managed environment for the computer systems corporate wide resulting in extensive cost savings. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems in Business and Finance York College of PA - York, PA Additional Information • Systems Development LifeCycle (SDLC)  • Waterfall Methodology  • Agile Methodology  • Scrum Methodology  • Lean Six Sigma  • ITIL / ITSM  • Incident/Problem Management  • Software as a Service (SaaS)  • Use Case / User Story Generation  • Object Oriented Analysis and Design  • Rational Unified Process Methodology (RUP)  • Unified Modeling Language (UML)  • eCommerce  • Marketo  • Service Now  • Java and .Net Web Design  • MS Access  • MS Excel  • MS Word  • MS Project  • MS PowerPoint  • MS Visio  • MS SharePoint  • Customer Relationship Management (CRM)  • JD Edwards ERP  • HP Openview  • HP/Peregrine AssetCenter  • HP/Peregrine QualityCenter  • Altiris  • Rally/Jira  • HTML  • CSS  • SAP  • Novell Netware  • AS400  • Remedy ARS  • NetMeetings  • Norton Antivirus  • ODBC  • Oracle  • SQL Query Analyzer  • SQL / Oracle Relational Databases  • Web-Ex  • PeopleSoft  • Crystal Reports  • MVS/VM Mainframe Systems  • Amisys Advance/Amisys    Hardware: All Desktop/Laptop, Mainframe, Mid-range, Networks of various hardware, Peripherals  Languages: Worked with programmers of various disciplines including .Net, Java, SQL, UML, and XML