(Consultant) Enterprise IT Systems Engineer (Consultant) Enterprise IT <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer (Consultant) Enterprise IT Systems Engineer Hershey, PA Work Experience (Consultant) Enterprise IT Systems Engineer PennDOT / DCED / PEMA December 2016 to March 2019 12/2016 - 3/2019)  Enterprise IT Systems Engineer VMware / Microsoft in a 2500 Server, Farm. 10 VMware server clusters. Responsible for hardware changes and oversight of maintenance. Emergency Response Personnel. Responsible for server templating and for all new virtual server builds Microsoft and Linux. Managed shared IIS environments for 60+ IIS applications. Managed critical infrastructure for eGov in pci compliant environment. Built and managed SQL always on clusters. Responsible for everything outside of SQL management studio.    Worked on large production deployments which required months multi team communication, live break fix response and rollback plans. Managed and worked with the Azure hybrid cloud PaaS environments in support of developers. Managed servers in PCI Compliant Environments. Owner / Systems Engineer JL NETWORKS, LLC 2010 to March 2019 JL Networks is an LLC that I formed to provide IT consulting and installation services. Specializing in Data Center Systems Analysis and Design in the arias of Storage Engineering, Network Engineering, Infrastructure Management, Cloud Services, server side virtualization and VDI.  Strategic Consulting services including: On site survey of network, systems and software, Engineered Drawings, Upgrade path recommendations, drawings, and documentation, Project Management, Procurement of infrastructure systems and software, Installation services and contract services. Systems Engineer III PICS ITECH January 2015 to June 2015 Concurrently manage responsibilities as Level 3 Technician in the Help Desk Qu for 60+ companies while performing the duties of Sr. Project Manager / Engineer.  Key Projects:  • VDI - VMware Horizon View rollouts, VMware / SAN conversions and consolidations.  • Rewire with Switching Upgrades to 10GB VLAN Networking for all internal network servers, web services hosting and email hosting DMZ.  • Veeam deployments for virtualization backup in Windows, Linux and mixed virtual server Environments.  • Cisco ASA to Fortinet Firewall conversions. Juniper to Fortinet Firewall conversions. Cisco Meraki multi AP and switch deployments, Fortinet Multi AP deployments.  • Complete new AD / TS infrastructure build out on VMware for a customer whose AD was unrecoverable due to ransom ware.  • Email Migration from pop to Office365, Email Migration from Exchange to Office365.  • Provided Help Desk support for more than 1000 end-points ranging from virus / malware issues, Exchange MS patching issues, LOB application upgrades and patches, Backup and Recovery systems / work with Cisco / Fortinet / SonicWALL Firewalls, Routing, L2 / L3 Switching, Work with servers from MS 2000 through 2012R2 and Linux. Systems Administrator HAYES PUMP, INC June 2006 to September 2014 Concurrently manage responsibilities as IT Administration, Help Desk Technician, and Application Engineer; plan and coordinate IT projects, manage quotes / new assembly orders, prioritize workflow, and allocate resources to ensure timely completion. Managed pump application engineering tasks with focus on overseeing the Service Division, encompassing new product assembly, pump / rotating equipment repair, and field service operations. Interact with vendors, sales personnel, shipping department, credit department, and mechanics. Manage network; troubleshoot and resolve client / server software and hardware devices. Configure routers and switches at CCNA level; oversee video conferencing equipment / software and repair hardware issues with servers, desktops, laptops, printers, copiers, telephones, and headsets.  Key Achievements:  * Monitored and maintained more than 100 end-point devices and servers; troubleshot, diagnosed, and resolved technical issues to ensure optimal functionality.  * Instrumental in streamlining network operations by researching, recommending, and implementing new technologies such as VMWare V-Sphere, Fusion IO Solid State Redundant Storage, Core and Access Layer Switching Upgrade, MS Exchange / Office 365, OPManager, IT360, Kaspersky Anti-virus, ADSelfService+ and Rubber Tree.  * Devised and executed standard companywide password policy, which minimized risks and ensured optimal security.  * Designed and implemented companywide training program for various key technologies, including Microsoft Outlook / Exchange, Adobe Acrobat Standard / Pro, ADSelfService+, Rubber Tree.  * Spearheaded rewire and blueprint of server room; integrated Synergy to facilitate workflows, Ominifocus and Evernote to drive GTD productivity management, and GTD methodology to streamline file record keeping.  * Played key role in driving efficiencies throughout all facets of operations; built servers for at-home training in a nested vSphere environment, remained up-to-date regarding emerging technologies, and aggressively sought out innovative strategies for optimizing business processes.  * Effectively communicated with diverse populations; successfully explained technical concepts in an easily understandable manner regardless of technical knowledge / level. Store Manager RADIO SHACK February 2002 to January 2006 Upheld accountability standards for managing daily store operations for Hackettstown and Gillette locations. Interfaced with diverse customers; quickly resolved issues to facilitate a positive customer experience. Tracked and reported sales metrics; ensured compliance with established company policies. Monitored inventory levels, ensuring appropriate number of merchandise available for customers. Provided training and guidance to personnel regarding product offerings, sales techniques, and service as Sales Manager. Recruited and supervised up to 12 staff members.  Key Achievements:  * Integral in adapting and implementing various key policies to streamline store operations while adhering to corporate guidelines.  * Introduced sales strategies that drove new business; efforts directly led to #1 store ranking in Verizon Wireless sales; awarded a trip incentive for contributions.  * Implemented standard procedures for interviewing and recruiting activities, thereby ensuring consistency in both hiring practices and acquisition of quality personnel.    Served with the US Marine Corps as an Electro-Optical Ordnance Technician; performed maintenance and repairs to ground ordnance laser / night vision devices, small missile systems, and other fire control equipment. Education Computer Networking & Security Anthem Institute - Parsippany, NJ Cert LaSalle University - Philadelphia, PA Skills Engineer, Systems engineer, Network design, Systems integration, Network protocols, Systems administration, System administration, Virtualization, Security, Technical support, Capacity planning, Maintenance, Strategic planning, Integration, Articulate, Detail-oriented, Forensics Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFILE  Enterprise Systems Engineer ~ Enterprise Network Administrator ~ Enterprise Virtualization Engineer    Highly accomplished, detail-oriented technical professional with hands-on experience in network design, systems administration, technical support, configuration, and technical infrastructure. Talent for formulating solutions and integrating emerging technologies that facilitate improvements in productivity, connectivity, and performance. Articulate communicator and I collaborate effectively with diverse populations, including technical colleagues, end-users, vendors, customers, and senior leadership.    Infrastructure / Security Initiatives / Computer Forensics / System Administration / Strategic Planning / Team Leadership / Capacity Planning / Network Maintenance / Network Protocols & Diagnostics / Technical Support / Systems Integration / Repairs & Upgrades