Software implementation engineer Software implementation engineer DevOps engineer Ann Arbor, MI ? Linux: 12 years of experience with RHEL/CentOS, Debian/Ubuntu and FreeBSD.  ? Network technologies: Active Directory, DHCP, DNS, VLANs, network gateways, DFS, Group Policies. Monitoring systems (Zabbix, Munin). Log processing systems (Graylog). Load balancing (HAProxy).  ? Virtualization: Xen Server, VMWare vSphere, Microsoft Hyper-V, Oracle Virtualbox  ? Cloud: AWS, Openstack, Docker  ? DevOps: Git, Subversion, Jira, Ansible, Jenkins  ? Programming: Basic skills in Python, PHP, PowerShell, Bash, VBA, C#, Delphi and SQL  ? Web technologies: MySQL, PostgreSQL, Apache, Nginx, Varnish, HAProxy. Caching and load balancing.  ? Hardware: Enterprise class datacenter equipment (Dell, Cisco, Brocade, HP)  ? Telephony: VoIP (Asterisk/FreePBX). Support of high load call centers. Statistics and CDR analysis.  ? Windows: 18 years of experience in administration of networks based on Active Directory and Windows Server 2008/2012 technologies. Administration of geographically distributed networks with hundreds of workstations and servers.  ? Support: Experience in user support, help desk and service desk  ? Sales: 3 years of experience in software sales process with large enterprise clients  ? Other: Good mechanical and electrical skills. Fluent English (level C1) and Russian. Work experience in transnational corporations. Fully authorized to work in USA (Green card) Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software implementation engineer IQVIA - Marlborough, MA February 2018 to Present Support of AWS/Xen Server based SaaS platform. Automation using Python and Ansible. Security and networking. Infrastructure planning. Datacenter management. Day to day systems administration. DevOps engineer Bytewerk Rus ltd July 2016 to August 2017 Worked as part of the diverse software engineers team  ? Built and implemented Jenkins based Continuous Integration infrastructure  ? Automated whole process of building, testing and deploying applications  ? Created automation scripts with Bash, PowerShell, Groovy and Python  ? Optimized performance and improved security of multiple web projects  ? Optimized existing cloud and network infrastructure  ? Managed existing VMware based infrastructure  ? Developed and implemented infrastructure for multiple web-based applications  ? Worked with various platforms and technologies: .NET Core, Nginx, Varnish, MS SQL, RabbitMQ, Amazon S3, CloudFlare Senior systems engineer National data centers ltd December 2015 to July 2016 Worked in a team responsible for development, construction and maintenance of data centers  ? Worked with large scale datacenter hardware and software  ? Datacenter hardware installation and maintenance  ? Datacenter monitoring systems (Zabbix)  ? Datacenter networking (VLANs, vSwitches, subnets, routing, firewalls, VPN)  ? Cloud-based services  ? Implemented fault tolerance, high availability and disaster recovery  ? Company was main operator of canceled "russian government cloud" project. Pre-sales systems engineer Varonis Systems Inc May 2012 to April 2015 Student Washtenaw Community College January 2011 to December 2011 I was studying business administration in Ann Arbor, MI, USA for a year. Systems administrator Media-Service Ltd March 2008 to August 2010 Systems administrator AgroTradeService JSC March 2004 to March 2008 Programmer, support technician MTM-Agro JSC September 2003 to March 2004 Education Bachelor's in Sociology Moscow Pedagogical State University - Moscow Associate in Business Administration Washtenaw Comm. College - Ann Arbor, MI Skills Linux (10+ years), System Administration (10+ years), Systems Integration (10+ years), Web Services (10+ years), PHP (10+ years), Powershell (10+ years), Network Administration (10+ years), Jenkins (2 years), CI/CD (2 years), Ansible (2 years), Docker (2 years), Vmware, Active Directory, System Administrator, DNS, AWS, System Administrator, Vmware, DNS, Active Directory Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate Microsoft Certified IT Professional (MCITP) Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist (MCTS) Assessments Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vig1y-ezmal1s-c8 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information I have arrived to Ann Arbor, MI from Moscow, Russia, as a new immigrant (DV-2016 lottery winner), in mid December. I don't need any visa sponsorship as I already have Green Card and SSN.    I am highly experienced (14 years) systems engineer with broad skills in IT field. I've studied in Washtenaw Community College in Ann Arbor in 2011, and then worked in US company Varonis Systems for 3 years.    My latest position was DevOps engineer in software company, and I would like to continue working in this field.