ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT Tucson, AZ Respected administrative and business professional drawing on more than two decades of diverse and  extensive Administrative Assistant experience within a customer focused and performance-driven  environment; including record keeping, reporting, and office operations. Work Experience ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT The Arizona Daily Star - Tucson, AZ March 2017 to August 2018 Provided administrative support to the Director of Advertising and five department managers.  ? Maintain calendars, coordinating extensive appointments and meetings.  ? Create, analyze and manage data using Microsoft Excel.  ? Regular producing, prioritizing reports containing sensitive and proprietary data.  ? Maintain daily, weekly and monthly revenue reports for corporate and department managers.  ? Maintain electronic and hard copy filing systems.  ? Maintain office supply and office equipment.  ? Overseeing daily office operations for a staff of over 20 employees.  ? Respond to customer complaints and information requests via telephone and email.  ? Perform general clerical duties; including answering multi-line phones, routing telephone calls or messages to appropriate staff, greeting the public, typing, proofreading, sorting, incoming and  outgoing mail. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR The Arizona Daily Star - Tucson, AZ January 2000 to March 2017 Installation and training of new front-end system.  ? Plan, test and implemented upgrades to system software.  ? Designed and updated department front-end system training manual.  ? Provided system training of new hires and on-going training for existing personnel.  ? Managed Advertising rate structure documents.  ? Integrated procedures to improve quality and workflow for sales staff.  ? Managed advertising system to include, standard operation procedure, upgrades, rate changes, and troubleshooting.  ? Standardized job tasks and trained junior team members on best practices and standards.  ? Resolved issues and escalated problems with knowledgeable support and quality service.  ? Provided continued maintenance and development of bug fixes and patch sets for existing web  applications.  ? Provided documentation on start-up, shut down and first level troubleshooting of processes to help  desk staff. Education High School Diploma Pueblo High Magnet School - Tucson, AZ Skills Data Entry, Receptionist, Outlook, Administrative Assistant, Word, Microsoft Excel