System Administrator <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator Lansdale, PA Work Experience System Administrator Hays, Center Philadelphia April 2018 to March 2019 • VMware infrastructure  • RSA patching/upgrade and administration of tokens  • Build 2012/16 Windows servers  • Isilion administration  • Ad Administration  • Ftp administration  • SRM  • Recoverpoint  • Backup with Networker  • Disk Keeper/V-Celocity  • Symantec EndPoint Protection IT Consultant TekSystems - Wayne, PA February 2018 to March 2018 consultant Örebro University - Örebro, SE August 2011 to February 2018 Systems Administrator    • Currently working as a systems administrator on Windows and Linux Servers.  • Support, install and update the following server systems: Blackboard, Public 360, Print system and smaller server systems.  • Extensive work with Microsoft SQL with installing, configuring and maintaining databases. Migrate DB's to newer versions.  • Currently working with VMware and VSphere installing and configuring virtual servers.  • Handling the ESX servers in the different clusters.  • Upgrading VMware from older versions.  • Working with virtual switches and storage for the virtual machines.  • Handling updates and patching of all windows servers.  • Handling updates and patching on Linux servers.  • Administering and troubleshooting Citrix. (Economy system that runs on Citrix).  • Administering the infrastructure and whole network including Active Directory, Group policies and multiple domains.  • Troubleshooting script and run PowerShell script, mainly on Exchange server.  • I have worked on all windows platforms since NT4 including Windows 2016 server. Systems Administrator/Purchaser Uppsala University - Uppsala, SE July 2009 to August 2011 • Responsible for Installing, troubleshooting and configuring of Windows servers and clients.  • Part time handling purchasing of IT equipment.  • Patching servers and working with Windows AD.  • On site client support. Systems Administrator/Asset Manager Datametrix - Stockholm, SE December 2003 to July 2009 • Responsible for Installing, troubleshooting and configuring of Windows servers.  • Patching servers and working with windows AD and Exchange.  • Handling antivirus software, support of printers.  • Troubleshooting SW/HW. Working with SQL queries/administration, asset-management in POB (Point of business) and reports from Crystal Reports. Support Technician Datametrix - London May 2002 to November 2003 • Worked with operation and on site client support.  • Patched Windows servers, while handling antivirus software, and working with Windows AD and Exchange.  • Troubleshooting Citrix on both clients and servers.  • Backup handling using Tivoli software.  • Installed and troubleshooted the physical network.  • Configuration of printers and troubleshooting HW/SW. IT Manager Hedera Affärsadministration AB - Kalix, SE May 2000 to September 2001 • Built a successful working IT department from the beginning through building the network and migrated all servers from NT to win 2000.  • Migrated all software over to the new platform, built the company homepage, and web functions like Hogia easy access.  • Personnel responsibilities included overseeing negotiation of contracts/deals with external suppliers. Links http://Glenmede.com