Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer - Interval International Miami, FL Work Experience Systems Engineer Interval International - Miami, FL June 2015 to Present Deployment & support of the development, QA, & production Infrastructure. 1400 + Servers across multiple Datacenters, Including Domain Controllers, Multi domain Active Directory, Exchange 2010, Office 365 Hybrid, MS SQL, Citrix XenApp 6.5, NetScaler (VPX), File & Application servers, ESXi, HP Blades and Chassis with HP OneView.  Lead in internal & external PCI assessment and vulnerability remediation across all Windows Servers and Hardware Infrastructure using industry standard best practices and security strategies.  Lead in CyberArk security evaluation related to privileged access identification across our domains.  Project role including some operational tasks, security risk assessments, server delivery, vCenter management, plus many synergy tasks related to mergers and acquisitions.  Point in SQL 2008 Server Migrations to SQL 2014, 2016 due to SQL 2008 end of life Project.  Integration of all Enterprise System tools on the standard VM templates across all Datacenters and sites.  Disaster Recovery scenario testing for the past 3 years to ensure business continuity.  PowerShell script building, testing, and implementation to carry out bulk operations across the Windows Infrastructure  Develop, modify, and maintain shared documentation on Infrastructure tools, Application Installation, Application delivery design, PowerShell scripts, as well as troubleshooting guidelines for the systems engineering team to follow. Infrastructure Engineer Provectus - Miami, FL June 2012 to May 2015 Systems Administrator United Home Care Services - Doral, FL June 2008 to June 2012 Lone System Administrator supporting the stable operation of the in-house computer network, systems & applications. Including 50 + Windows 2008 servers with shared NAS storage in a Data Center. Configuration and Deployment of Standard OS Images of 250+ Desktops, 80+ Laptops with VPN software, and thin clients.  Initiated and began configuration of VMware ESXi hosts & virtualized the entire Windows 2008 Terminal Services farm, Domain Controllers and Application Servers using P2V technology to increase the server availability for our end users.  Active Directory & Exchange design, deployment and Administration including DNS and IP Address management. along with supporting the inhouse network infrastructure including Cisco Catalyst 2950-s and Checkpoint Firewalls.  SQL server 2008 Installations, SQL patching and updates, database monitoring, database backups with SQL maintenance plans, New SQL Database builds and migrations from SQL 2005, & SQL Licensing documentation.  Managed documentation of Active Directory GPO's & security structure, Data Center design, & disaster recovery plans.  Planned and executed company headquarters relocation along with the entire Inhouse Server and network infrastructure, user desktops, Wi-Fi access points and VOIP systems. Technical Consultant Netcor Technologies - Miami, FL September 2003 to September 2008 Technical support consultant for over 350 MSP client office throughout Miami Dade and Broward County.  Including Law Firms, CPA's Doctors, Hospitals, Real Estate, Entertainment, Insurance, Home Health, Education  Public Transportation, Engineering, and many more.  Remote Administration of Windows 2003 & 2008, Active Directory, MS Exchange 2003 & 2007, SQL Server 2003 - 05, RDS/Terminal Services, Citrix XenApp 4.0, VMware ESX 3.0-3.5 & VMware Workstation.  On-site hardware Installation, configuration and troubleshooting. Maintained multiple customer networks, including managed switches, routers, firewalls, wireless access points, and Remote office VPN setups.  Troubleshoot service issues related to Exchange, Active Directory, DNS, SQL, IIS, VPN, DHCP, Routers & Switches.  Conducted Active Directory security auditing & worked with management teams to develop an OU and GPO structure.  Assembled complete Data Center racks with physical servers, NAS, iSCSI, & managed switches for our clients.    Tools / Skills    VMware, ESXi, vCenter, VMware vSphere Web Client