Server and Systems Administrator Server and <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Actively looking for new opportunities Louisville, KY Actively seeking position in IT security and support Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Server and Systems Administrator L&N Federal Credit Union - Louisville, KY August 2018 to July 2019 Monitor and maintain network health using Solarwinds; monitor and maintain Ubiquity WiFi access points; administer, maintain uptime, update, and vendor contact for disk encryption server, primary financial system and test system servers, Lynxgate web and database server, ISE server, CardWizard debit card printer server, MortgageBot web and database server, Nautilus document web and database server, DataLibrarian web and database server; server upgrade and migration; vendor contact for pre-requisites, quotes, and support; desktop and laptop end user PC configuration, upgrade, deployment, and support; process documentation updating; end user phone, email, instant message, and walk-in support; executive officer and vice president direct support; mobile maintenance branch support for southeastern, northern, and Louisville Metro regions Factory Information Technology GE Appliances, a Haier company - Louisville, KY February 2018 to August 2018 CompuCom    •Maintain and support all aspects of factory IT systems including server/PC infrastructure, Ethernet networks, IT application software, and factory information security.    •Interactive Map: Created map that can be used now and in the future for location and information tracking of factory systems to reduce search times when fulfilling service requests.  •Inventory Refresh: Creating full and updated inventory and location of all AP1 factory information services assets, and removal and decommission of unused or underutilized equipment for repurpose.  •GE TSA: Under guidance of the Development Operations Team, performed the removal of all GE Corporate software from all AP1 factory systems before the 2018-06-06 deadline.    •Responsible for 200+ factory production information systems as well as 100+ personal workstations, laptops, and mobile devices at AP1 production facility located at GE Appliance Park complex in Louisville, KY. Deskside Support Analyst GE Appliances, a Haier company - Louisville, KY July 2017 to February 2018 CompuCom    •Provides support services to employees and clients with technical problems and information pertaining to technology issues involving desktops, laptops or network services from local personnel or from employees using network remote access.     •Decatur, AL (DPO Facility): During the backfilling of a recently vacated position at the Decatur Production facility, reduced downtime from outage to installation of replacement or new systems by 40-50% with introduction of new and efficient methods of system deployment. Cleared backlog of work created by former personnel allowing DPO FIS freedom to work on delayed projects.    •Responsible for providing service to GE Appliances facilities and ongoing projects worldwide. Academic Tutor University of Louisville REACH - Louisville, KY September 2015 to December 2017 •Assists students in using the REACH Computer Resource Centers’ computers and other university technologies in courses involving programming languages, Microsoft Access, and/or Microsoft Excel. General help desk for in-person PC troubleshooting for students, faculty, and staff.    •Classroom Sessions: Hold pre-test review presentation sessions in a classroom setting for students requiring additional assistance. Methods of instruction included presentations and 1-on-1 assistance with individual students.    •Responsible for any students and staff requesting assistance at 2 REACH locations on University of Louisville Belknap Campus. End User Support Analyst Norton Healthcare - Louisville, KY February 2017 to June 2017 Brooksource    •Provides day to day operations and support for desktop computer, mobile device, and associated peripherals are available for the end users of Norton Healthcare. Work in the NHC facilities to resolve issues with hardware, software and network connectivity, for all EUC supported devices.    •Responsible for medical information systems in all facilities of the downtown Louisville Norton Healthcare complex. Desktop Support Technician University of Louisville Kent School - Louisville, KY May 2016 to February 2017 •Performs on-site or in-house servicing, repair and/or installation of product(s). Maintain an accurate/up to date inventory of Kent School assets.    •Asset Condition and Rental Tracking Database: Replaced legacy system of recording asset rentals with a database built from business requirements to track asset rentals, renter information, condition of assets, and assets descriptions to create a more complete, efficient, and effective rental system.    •Responsible for 25+ information systems and devices in the 3 buildings of Kent School of Social Work on University of Louisville Belknap Campus. Education BSBA in Computer Information Systems: Information Security University of Louisville - Louisville, KY May 2015 to December 2017 Bachelor's in Biology University of Louisville - Louisville, KY August 2004 to December 2011 Skills Windows (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), SQL (1 year), Active Directory (1 year), Computer Hardware (8 years), Computer Repair (8 years), Public Speaking (6 years), Customer Service (4 years), C# (Less than 1 year), Mac OS X (2 years), Android (3 years), Troubleshooting (8 years), Word (10+ years), Powerpoint (10+ years), Excel (10+ years), Visio (2 years), Agile (1 year), Information Technology, Information Security, security, access, testing, training Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/bpmartinez Awards University of Louisville College of Business Dean's List 2015-12 For high academic achievement. University of Louisville College of Business Dean's List 2016-04 For high academic achievement. University of Louisville College of Business Dean's List 2015-08 For high academic achievement. Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified July 2017 to July 2020 "Held by over 1? million IT professionals worldwide, CompTIA A+ is the most essential IT certification for establishing an IT career. If you’re new to the IT industry, this will help you put your best foot forward. And if you’re already an IT professional, the CompTIA A+ certification validates your skills and can boost your career. "   -https://certification.comptia.org/certifications/a Security+ July 2018 to July 2021 "CompTIA Security+ is the first security certification IT professionals should earn. It establishes the core knowledge required of any cybersecurity role and provides a springboard to intermediate-level cybersecurity jobs. Security+ incorporates best practices in hands-on trouble-shooting to ensure security professionals have practical security problem-solving skills. Cybersecurity professionals with Security+ know how to address security incidents – not just identify them.    Security+ is compliant with ISO 17024 standards and approved by the US DoD to meet directive 8140/8570.01-M requirements" -https://certification.comptia.org/certifications/security