Windows Engineer\ Systems Administrator Windows Engineer\<span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Windows Engineer\ Systems Administrator - Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Bank Yonkers, NY To transfer my 10+ years of progressive IT experience to an IT systems engineering position in an established firm that needs a hardworking and experienced systems engineer with a broad background. Work Experience Windows Engineer\ Systems Administrator Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Bank - New York, NY October 2018 to Present • Patching Windows servers and workstations with IBM BigFix.  • Scripted removal of untested patches from 550 VDIs.  • Managed VMWare virtual machine backups with NetBackup.  • MSSQL Server 2012 installation and SQL code deployments\changes.  • Drove project to upgrade RightFax server and upgraded 85 clients utilizing psexec.  • Racking\stacking of servers in datacenter.  • Revised and documented backup procedures to comply with record retention policies and address audit findings.  • Optimized Veeam backup jobs and effected 10% reduction of DataDomain space usage.  • Implemented daily checklist procedures to track resource usage and maintain backup job compliance. Systems Administrator Party City - New York, NY March 2018 to August 2018 • Utilized group policy to enforce compliance with security standards across enterprise.  • Patching Windows 2008/2012/2016 Servers as well as Exchange and SQL servers.  • Troubleshooting DNS issues due to domain trusts.  • Reestablished SolarWinds monitoring.  • Management and troubleshooting of 6 node VMWare cluster hosting Exchange servers.  • Added SAN space at SAN level, ESX host level and at OS level to accommodate email growth, and configured SolarWinds to monitor it to prevent outages.  • Scripted removal of temp and log files across corporate server reducing disk usage by 6%.  • Configured DataDomain for use as backup target for Exchange backups.  • Reestablished tape backups and offsite storage with Backup Exec after jobs had been failing and not completing for over a year. Senior Infrastructure Engineer HomeServeUSA - Norwalk, CT April 2017 to February 2018 • Published applications in Citrix XenApp 6.5 presentation server and worked with applications team to test functionality.  • Upgraded ESX Servers on cluster hosting fileserver onsite in Connecticut office from version 5.5 to 6.5.  • Maintained and managed Windows 2008R2 servers in Citrix farm.  • Created Cisco Hyperfex\VMWare based lab environment.  • Deployed Spectre and Meltdown remediations across Windows 2008/2012 server infrastructure.  • Deployed Wannacry remediations across Windows 2003/2008/2012 server infrastructure.  • Scripted uninstallation of Trend Micro Antivirus on 1000 computers using psexec and reinstalled latest version using the Trend Micro console enabling centralized administration of a current and supported antivirus solution.  • Scripted new default reboot options with psexec across 240 XenDesktop VDIs to prevent them from entering maintenance mode after not shutting down properly.  • Created and maintained corporate golden VMWare template for Windows Server 2012.  • Implemented server providing DHCP, AD services in office of newly acquired company in Hammonton, New Jersey.  • Led project to migrate 4TB data off of Amazon Snowball appliance and onto EMC VNX SAN which included provisioning a LUN, attaching it to a production file server in ESX server and copying the data to it.  • Patching and performing security remediations on Windows 2003, 2008, 2012 and RedHat Linux 6.0 and 6.5, printers and Dell Equalogic SAN.  • Led project to implement antivirus software on 25 RedHat 6.x servers hosted in the Equinix cloud.  • Led project to migrate remainder of Windows 2003 servers to Windows 2008\2012, 10 in total.  • Created GPOs and test OUs for Windows 10 pilot program.  • Systems monitoring with SolarWinds. Senior Systems Engineer Progenics Pharmaceuticals - New York, NY 2015 to 2017 • Installed/implemented vSphere 5.5 on Windows which consolidated the management of 7 individual hypervisor hosts into the management of 1 standalone ESXi host and 6 ESXi hosts controlled by a vSphere server.  • Cloud-based SharePoint administration, provisioned sites for clinical trials and supported internal and external users.  • Implemented Nessus and scheduled monthly vulnerability scans and remediated as necessary.  • Implemented email encryption in Office365 and trained executives and board members how to send secure email.  • Worked with external auditors to provide evidence that internal controls were in place, working and that risk was minimized.  • Installed the following SolarWinds Products: Network Performance Monitor (Orion), Network Traffic Analyzer, Patch Manager, Server and Application Monitor, and Virtual Machine Manager.  • Configured Dell SonicWALL NSA 4500 in a failover cluster configuration.  • Installed Dell SonicWALL NSA 4600 and configured URL Filtering, Antivirus and Anti Bot features.  • Configured Point to Point Primary and VPN Secondary connections between corporate office and colocation facility with SonicWALL firewalls.  • Configured two factor authentication for client to LAN VPN on Aventail SRA appliance.  • Manager and technical implementer of project to move datacenter from Tarrytown to colocation facility in New York City:  • Determined power requirements in colocation facility.  • Reduced infrastructure footprint from three racks to one rack.  • Consolidated production virtual machines off of end of life SAN and into VMWare VSAN.  • Oversaw the installation of servers, switches and SAN into the new rack in the colocation facility.  • Manager and technical implementer of the setup of new office in NYC:  • Determined power requirements in new office.  • Migrated DNS from Lightpath to Network Solutions.  • Designed and installed new layer three (Brocade) switch network for new office.  • Vendor management: Stepped into IT technical lead and managerial role due to IT director leaving:  • Vetted and selected vendors for wide area networking\internet connectivity and IT help desk and networking consultants. Systems Engineer Progenics Pharmaceuticals - New York, NY 2011 to 2015 • Support and maintenance of 45 virtual machines across 7 ESXi hosts and 10 physical servers.  • Migrated WSUS from a physical Windows 2003 sever to a virtual Windows 2008 server and consolidated the print server into it, eliminating an under-utilized server.  • Migrated file server from a physical Windows 2003 server to a virtual Windows 2012 server.  • Upgraded domain from Server 2003 to Server 2008 R2, taking 2 physical domain controllers to 1 physical server and 1 virtual server.  • Assisted in project to migrate from First Class mail server to Office 365. Systems Administrator Progenics Pharmaceuticals - New York, NY 2009 to 2011 • Performed data backup and restoration outside of established schedules.  • Upgraded Symantec Endpoint Protection Manager 11 to 12 and upgraded the associated workstations  •Active Directory, GPOs, user account creation, login scripts in a 2003 mode domain and later a 2008R2 mode domain.  • Managed Windows 2003, 2008 and 2012 patching using WSUS.  • Managed printers, print server, DNS and DHCP servers.  • Installed and managed Windows 2003, 2008 and 2012 Servers. Helpdesk Support Analyst Progenics Pharmaceuticals - New York, NY 2006 to 2009 • Provided support to up to 250 end users.  • Supported lab computers used to operate HPLCs, cell counters and plate readers.  • Created and maintained of corporate workstation images using ShadowProtect IT edition.  • Patched Microsoft Windows XP and Windows 7 workstations using WSUS and Shavlik Protect.  • Recovered user data in the event of hardware/software failure.  • Malware elimination/ System recovery.  • Reduced workstation imaging time by 40 percent.  • Migrated end user workstations from Windows XP to Windows 7. Education Post Bachelor Certificate in Information Security Drexel University - Philadelphia, PA Bachelor of Science Excelsior College - New York, NY Bachelor of Business Administration in Information Systems Pace University - New York, NY Skills Active Directory, System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin