Information Systems Manager Information <span class="hl">Systems</span> Manager Information Systems Manager - Axis Computer Networks Inc Derry, NH Work Experience Information Systems Manager Axis Computer Networks Inc - Newburyport, MA April 2015 to Present Project Manager / Helpdesk Manager  • Lead team of 6 engineers and 2 helpdesk tech.  • Provide service excellent by continues process development, policy enforcement and personal accountability.  • Mentor new engineers and provided support to all engineers in the field and at the helpdesk  • Manage helpdesk dept, developed processes and work flows to improve trouble ticket assignment and speed to resolution.  • Work with upper management to analyze, develop and enforce new company policies and processes.  • Address interviewing, performance reviews and terminations of all Systems Engineers.  • Manage all projects and address assigning project resources and personnel.  • Constantly striving for improvement through analyzing and updating current processes and procedures.  • Coordinate in-house training sessions to assist engineers in staying relevant on new technologies, new VAS Axis provides, updates and changes to current hardware services, provisioning services and processes, work flow changes internally and at client sites. Senior Systems Engineer March 2009 to 2015 • Provide Outsourced IT services for multiple residual and "break-fix" clientele.  • Managed complete network infrastructure and completed routine server maintenance.  • Create and implement disaster recovery procedures for multiple clients.  • Addressed user base issues both on-site and remotely.  • Additional duties include monitoring and managing multiple client backups, multiple servers' status and services via proactive monitoring software and tools. Provide 24/7 support for residual clients.  • Maintained Axis's business network and servers, preformed routine maintenance and recommendations to keep network and systems running efficiently and maintain 99% uptime.  • Mentored System Engineers and helped with project planning and identifying potential projects at client sites.  • Worked with management to implement new policies and procedures.  • Participated in management meetings assisting with staffing issues and potential corrective actions. Systems Engineer November 2003 to March 2009 • Provide Outsourced IT services for multiple residual and "break-fix" cliental.  • Managed complete network infrastructure and completed routine server maintenance.  • Create and implement disaster recovery procedures for multiple clients.  • Addressed user base issues both on-site and remotely.  • Additional duties include monitoring and managing multiple client backups, multiple servers' status and services via proactive monitoring software and tools. Provide 24/7 support for residual clients. Desktop Support Specialist Leahy Clinic - Burlington, MA July 2003 to November 2003 • Provided desktop support for end-users at satellite offices, covering hardware and software issues.  • Addressed issues in order as assigned by ticketing dispatch system. Installation Technician / Systems Administrator Medford, MA March 2001 to May 2003 • Installed and configured Windows based server/ client EMR software for Ophthalmologists.  • Provided on-site and remote support across US for Ifa software and hardware, client base consisted of private and gov't facilities. Education Associate Skills DHCP, INFRASTRUCTURE DESIGN, SYSTEM ADMINISTRATION, VMWARE, WINS, System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/tligax9hhtanx3il Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.