Director of Infrastructure & Support Director of Infrastructure &amp; Support Director of Infrastructure & Support - Famous Enterprises Stow, OH Strong technical background with over 20 years of real-world experience in many areas  of IT. Well-versed at running a technical team while providing leadership and project  management oversight to ensure project deliverables are on time and on budget.    Technical:    VMware - vSphere - ESXi Storage Area Networks (SANs)  Data Center Equipment & Technologies Microsoft Exchange 2007 - 2013  Office 365 - Teams - OneDrive Telecom & VoIP Technologies  Windows Server 2003 - 2016 Active Directory - Group Policy  Cisco Routing - Firewalls Web Filtering & Reporting  Disaster Recovery Systems and Policies IT Security Assessments & Remediation    Milestones:    • Designed and built a new corporate data center from framed construction. Migrated all  production systems with less than 12 hours of scheduled down time.    • Successfully lead double-hop migration from Exchange 2007 to the Office 365 platform  running in a hybrid configuration.  • Implemented replicating storage arrays across two physically separate clusters for high  availability and disaster recovery initiatives.  • Completed numerous ERP and system migrations/upgrades while guaranteeing high  SLAs of production systems.  • Brought more than a dozen new facilities online with a variety of technologies  including MPLS, Fiber, T-1, Cellular, and SD-WAN communications.    • Designed and built private computing cloud. Virtualized 90% of all corporate IT systems  reducing cost and increasing uptime.  • Rolled out custom ticketing system to streamline on-boarding and off-boarding processes  between HR and IT. Resulted in less errors and increased speed.  • Hired and trained numerous associates from both inside and outside of the organization.  Provided leadership, technical training, and mentoring support. I've been lucky enough to  see several of these individuals go on to become very successful in the field.    - More project details available upon request -    Billy, Work Experience Director of Infrastructure & Support Famous Enterprises - Akron, OH March 2008 to Present • Manage a team of communication, project manager, and tech support specialists  • Make sure all systems meet or exceed SLA specifications  • Run and maintain high availability multi-site data center locations  • Maintain 40+ branch wide area network across many different states  • Provide metrics and performance data to executive team  • Maintain IT related vendor contracts and proposals.  • Project future business needs and maintain infrastructure refresh schedules  • Budget for all hardware, software, and communication expenses  • Work with departments to find inefficiencies that IT can help improve upon  • Design and maintain virtual computing infrastructures  • Monitor data replication and snapshots across sites  • Provision, archive, and alter IT systems based on business needs  • Document, test, and modify disaster recovery processes  • Administer Exchange and Office 365 platforms  • Run security and phishing scam training campaigns for associates  • Administer internal and external DNS and web hosting systems  • Monitor security update status to ensure compliance  • Maintain a flexible department that can quickly respond to changing needs Lead Systems Administrator St Ives Printing - Cleveland, OH August 2002 to March 2008 • Install and administer server based operating systems  • Maintain IT hardware including servers, workstations, and telecom equipment  • Design, implement, and maintain Active Directory environment  • Create and enforce security policies and disaster recovery procedures  • Administer firewalls, managed switches, and routers  • Support digital phone system and make programming changes  • Implement application and security patch rollouts  • Provide network support services for other facilities and remote offices    - More employment history available upon request - Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Networking Kaplan University Skills budget, Strategic Planning, Vmware (10+ years), Information Technology, IT Management (10+ years)