Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer Minneapolis, MN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Engineer Direct Source Inc - Minneapolis, MN April 2017 to June 2019 Direct Source Inc. is a $50M company that provides IT solutions to unique IT environments.  Responsible for design, development and maintenance of systems/infrastructure to meet company initiatives. Oversee and maintain daily operations of enterprise computer systems hardware, security, software and infrastructure.  Security:  Delivering required results, remediation's, and reporting:  • Created policies and procedures, research and implementations for direction of company towards security measures and compliance. Presentations to management.  • Responsible for PCI compliance and audit remediation's.  • Initiated and completed 3rd party External Penetration Tests and remediation of necessary actions.  • Performed internal vulnerability tests via Nessus, analysis of results, remediation's, and reporting to management.  • Created and completed rigorous Business Continuity Planning (BCP) and Business Impact Analysis (BIA) initiatives.  • Implemented BitLocker drive encryption of internal and external drive systems, data-at-rest, data in-transit, HTTPS.  • Setup and maintain "FileSure Endpoint" to limit USB, DVD and other removable devices from "writing" to external devices without approval - Data Loss Prevention (DLP).  • Use of Cisco ASA 5512 Firewall FirePower Next Generation Firewall Management for Intrusion Detection System (IDS) and Intrusion Prevention System (IPS).  • Maintain all VPN access to systems. Additionally, implemented and monitor token based Multifactor Authentication (MFA) for remote VPN access to systems.  • Implemented use of 3rd party email Spam filtering and Data Loss Prevention (DLP) coupled with Microsoft Office 365 DLP capabilities.  • Setup, configured and maintained Singlewire Informacast Emergency Notification Systems throughout company, colocations, and remote warehouses.  • Control Silent Knight Door controller systems for security card readers, building access monitoring and reporting.  • Responsible for MileStone surveillance camera system. 42 surveillance cameras, disk space monitoring, archiving footage, and review of footage in event of incident.  • Responsible for enterprise wide Antivirus management via Cisco AMP (Advanced Malware Protection).    Networking:  Providing systems access and 99.9% uptime:  • Performed leadership role to IT staff. Developed, coached and cross-trained other IT staff.  • Perform high-level root cause analysis of network anomalies.  • Maintain internal network to include Windows Server 2008R2, Server 2012R2, Server 2016, Hyper-V, and ESXi VMware environments.  • Monitor the stability and performance of network and perform appropriate actions.  • Research, recommend, and implement storage requirements for new and existing SAN's, NAS, and VM Host Servers and virtual servers.  • Setup and maintain multiple VMware host servers. Performed VMware ESXi version 5.5 to version 6 upgrades on VMware hosts. Maintain all ongoing related activities for host servers and virtual servers.  • Setup and Maintain geographically dispersed "Production" Collocation connectivity and interface, remote warehouses connectivity and interface.  • Responsible for Cisco ASA 5512 firewalls and WatchGuard M370 firewall to include, NAT's, ACL's, services, ports, and remote access.  • Responsible for all VLAN routing and port manipulations on Cisco Catalyst switch stacks.  • Performed secondary functions to Cisco VOIP phone system via Cisco Unified Communications Manager (CUCM), Cisco 24X7 Contact Center Express (UCCX), Cisco Unity Connection IM & Presence (Cisco Jabber).    Administration:  Supporting and documenting a fast paced changing environment:  • Implemented and maintain backup system using Veeam Replication and Restoration. Site-to-Site replication of virtual and physical servers to Colocation. Data deduplication, bare metal server restores, file level restores.  • Developed and executed operational reports to include environment health check reports, capacity/performance reports, and incident/problem reports.  • Biannual testing of Disaster Recovery procedures.  • Responsible for performing infrastructure hardware firmware updates and upgrades to all devices.  • Developed all network infrastructure documentation for switches, firewalls, servers, and data flows via Visio diagrams and other network documentation. Developed "Help Wiki's" for System Administrators.  • Weekly meetings with IT director to initiate new projects and facilitate existing projects.  • PowerShell scripting supporting various systems.  • Coordinated and facilitated meetings with other IT staff to determine direction, infrastructure impact and projected financial outcomes.  • Control WSUS for deployment of server and workstation updates/patches.  • Created and implemented SharePoint System Change Management log. Documented changes to environment via SharePoint.  • Setup Windows Deployment Services (WDS) for Systems Administrators to image workstations.  • Use Admin Arsenal PDQ Deployment for 3rd party software deployments to servers and workstations.  • Maintain Active Directory functions. Sr. Systems Administrator Bailiwick Inc - Minneapolis, MN February 2012 to February 2017 Bailiwick Inc. serves Fortune 500 companies and provides IT solutions to unique IT environments. Bailiwick is a $140M company that is rated as Star Tribune top 150 workplaces in 2015, 2016 and 2017.  Responsible for gathering information and giving input to identify and develop new infrastructure systems and enhancements that coincide with company goals and projected outcomes. Plan, lead, implement and deploy all IT related infrastructure activities. Provide IT informational presentations updates at All-Company-Meetings. Provide dedicated on-call service to network infrastructure and user base.    Security:  Driving upper management heightened security initiatives:  • Completed Soc2 Type2 certification.  • Annually complete and remediate 3rd party External Penetration Tests, Internal Penetration Tests, Vulnerability Assessment, and Gap analysis.  • Completed rigorous Business Continuity Planning (BCP) and Business Impact Analysis (BIA) initiatives.  • Use of System Center Operations Manager (SCOM) for monitoring network servers, workstations, switches, and other networked devices.  • Responsible for Intrusion Detection System (IDS) and Intrusion Prevention System (IPS).  • Internet and Web monitoring, user bandwidth usage reporting, white listing, blacklisting.  • Spam email filtering and Data Loss Prevention (DLP).  • Use AirWatch Mobile Device Management (MDM) for controlling mobile devices connectivity to network and Email to cell phones.  • Control "Sophos Endpoint" to limit USB, DVD and other removable devices from "writing" to external devices without approval - Data Loss Prevention (DLP).  • Control Sophos Safeguard for Full Disk Encryption of laptops and workstations.  • Internal use of Nessus for periodic vulnerability scans.  • Responsible for i3 International surveillance camera system servers, 64 surveillance cameras, archiving footage, and review of footage in event of incident.  • Control of "Axis" door controller system for security card readers and building access.  • Implemented and use Microsoft Security Compliance Manager coupled with Group Policy for server and workstation "hardening".  • Implemented and maintained systems "change management" logging and reporting via SharePoint.    Networking:  Providing systems access and 99.9% uptime:  • Maintain internal network of 56 servers, 230 users, 12 VLAN environment to include Windows Server 2008R2, Server 2012R2, Server 2016, Hyper-V, and ESXi VMware environments.  • Responsible for Cisco Catalyst 3750 and 3850 Layer 3 switching, Layer 2 and Edge.  • Responsible for Cisco ASA 5510 firewall and Sophos Unified Threat Management 330 firewalls to include firewall rules, NAT, ACL's, services, ports.  • Setup and maintain Fiber Channel and iSCSI SAN network - EMC VNXe 5300, 3200, AX4-5i. Cross site SAN replication, Hot Spares, Initiators, Disk Arrays, Storage Pools, LUN's, Fast Cache, NAS.  • Setup and Maintain geographically dispersed "Production" Collocation connectivity and interface.  • Use Kemp Load Balancers and MS Failover Cluster Manager for HA between systems.  • Setup and maintain Office 365 environment including Email, Skype for Business, meeting and conference calling, and internal Instant Messaging.  • Setup and maintained Shoretel SIP VOIP telephone system, and 24X7X365 Helpdesk and Contact Center.  • Setup and maintain internal AeroHive wireless networks for: Guests Wi-Fi, Internal Wi-Fi, Mobile Device Wi-Fi, internal phone Wi-Fi, and branch routers for remote employees.    Administration:  Supporting and documenting a fast paced changing environment:  • Weekly meetings with IT director to initiate new projects and facilitate existing projects.  • Coordinated and facilitated meetings with other IT staff to determine direction, infrastructure impact and projected financial outcomes and ROI.  • Weekly accomplishments summary report delivered to IT director.  • Setup and maintain companywide backup solution via Dell AppAssure. Backups replicated between HQ and Collocation. Bare metal restores, database restores, and file restores.  • Develop Visio network infrastructure diagrams and other network documentation to affectively align company goals and initiatives with infrastructure and scalability.  • Maintain Microsoft CRM for support of vendor relationships and contacts. Network Engineer Index computers - Minneapolis, MN July 2004 to February 2012 Index Computers. A well respected computer solutions provider that serves both businesses and residential establishments since 1981. Acclaimed as South Metro provider of the year 2006. Performed complex daily consulting network functions to numerous different companies. Acted as primary consultant and liaison. LAN Administrator - Minnesota Visiting Nurse Agency MVNA July 2002 to July 2004 Responsible for network engineering, planning and maintenance on Windows servers and AS400 systems. Maintained HIPAA data confidentiality and security. Setup and maintained secure VPN access system for remote nurses and doctors. Systems Administrator Stratis Health August 1997 to October 2001 Responsible for all network administration of NT and Novell servers. Acted as liaison for "Peer Review Organization" (PRO) functions to Iowa HQ. Assisted Database Administrator in daily Oracle database functions. Programmer/Analyst Instant Web Companies March 1994 to August 1997 Programmed/developed internal coding systems including "Quoting" system in C language. Introduced to Novell token-ring network. Advanced to network administrator. Provided on-going assistance of network functions.    Quality Outcomes and Technical Skills  • Analytical and excellence driven.  • Drive business results and continuous improvements.  • Ability to lead IT Team, coordinate network infrastructure initiatives and make sound decisions.  • Sense of urgency with strong work ethics.  • Excellent oral and written communication skills. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science University of Minnesota Duluth - Duluth, MN Skills Active Directory, System Admin, System Administrator, Vmware