Application Security Engineer / Web Application Penetration Tester Application Security Engineer / Web Application Penetration Tester Courseware Author - Commonwealth of VA Charlotte, NC Work Experience Application Security Engineer / Web Application Penetration Tester Insight Global - Davidson, NC November 2018 to Present Web Application Penetration Testing / Vulnerability Management / Bitsight Data remediation.     I work to both find, and remediate, vulnerabilities found by myself as well as 3rd party vendors. I am also assisting in Static scanning adoption among all programmer groups company-wide.     I have automated many processes and have perform much assessment and engineering work at the end-client company.     All of this has been done mostly remote, other than the necessitation for in-person meetings. Courseware Author Commonwealth of VA July 2018 to Present The Virginia Cyber Range is a $2 million funded project by the Commonwealth of VA in order to provide Cyber Security education to high schools and colleges throughout the state. I  author many lessons used by the VCR for their state-wide educational program. (Repository:  https://virginiacyberrange.org/courseware/cyber-basics-module-0-introduction-linux)  • Logical organization of content and lesson plans  • Simplification and explanation of complex topics and concepts  • Write and modify documentation based off of a template and conventional norms Cyber Security Analyst Duke Energy July 2018 to September 2018 Power company that supplies power to 6 different states. Worked in a Blue Team monitoring environment performing analysis of anomalous activities to ensure company cyber asset and  information protection. Processing of malicious phishing attempts was a key part of the position as well.  • Alert processing detected via network sensors and IDSs (Intrusion Detection Systems)  • BlueCoat Proxy, ThreatExplorer, SiteReview  • McAfee ePO  • Carbon Black  • FireEye  • Outlook ECP  • Exabeam  • Iron Port Assistant Systems Administrator / Lab Proctor Manager Radford University August 2017 to December 2017 Responsible for assisting Systems Administrator with any technical work such as VM provisioning, configurations, and machine repairs. Also  managed 17 other individuals to watch over computer labs (vandalism precautions).  • VMWare  • ESXi  • Windows Operating System / Mac Operating System / Linux Operating System  • Manager Role Information Systems Engineer Cyber Security - Christiansburg, VA March 2017 to September 2017 known for its Patch Applicability and Research. Performed technical assistance for world-wide  client base and travel to client sites for patching, upgrading, and machine repairs. Performed many research and  development for product creation.  • McAfee ePO  • VMWare / ESXi  • PowerShell  • Server Configuration and System Hardening  • Splunk  • Acronis  • Sophos (Internship) - Cyber Security Intern Booz Allen Hamilton June 2016 to August 2016 Government contracting firm pretty well known to the Cyber  Security community. Intern for the summer of 2016 to work on 10-week project involving Python development.  • Python Programming  • Web Application Content Exposure  • Reverse Engineering  • IDA Pro  • Various concepts practiced through multiple Capture the Flag competitions held for the interns Cyber Security Engineer Radford University February 2016 to August 2016 Public university Information Security Office needed  a student worker to assist with various task due to understaffing and budget issues.  • Python scripting  • PowerShell scripting  • VIM  • Nmap  • Policy changes and creation Technical Assistance Engineer Radford University November 2014 to February 2016 Public university technical support to assist all  students and faculty with technical issues and inquiries. Emergency classroom response and machine repairs as well as ticketed- system customer support.  • Problem Analysis  • Operating Systems  • Computer Repairs Education BACHELOR'S OF SCIENCE in Mathematics Radford University Skills PYTHON (4 years), SCRIPTING (4 years), NMAP (3 years), SPLUNK (Less than 1 year), LINUX (5 years) Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY  • Programming languages: Python, C, Java, SQL, bash, HTML  • Scripting: Python, PowerShell, Bash  • Splunk, Sophos, Acronis, McAfee ePO, Palo Alto Panorama  • FireEye, Carbon Black, Exabeam, Iron Port  • Social Engineering, OSINT, Shodan, Maltego, Social Engineering Toolkit  • Kali-Linux, Black Arch, Nmap, Metasploit/Armitage, Burpsuite, ZAP, Wireshark, SQL Map  • Firewall configurations, pfSense, IPtables, Windows Firewall, Fortinet  • Penetration Testing, Malware Reverse Engineering and Analysis  • Nessus, Nexpose  • Linux System Hardening and Administration  • Windows System Hardening  • Active Directory and Group Policy Configurations