Clinical Systems Administrator Clinical <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Clinical Systems Administrator - eResearch Technologies Monroeville, NJ I am a Clinical Systems Administrator on the cardiac safety clinical systems / project management side with more than 15 years of experience in the IT field. I have strong communication skills, attention to detail, and firm work ethics that develops good working relationships with peers and customers alike. I have a proven record of successfully leading all phases of clinical systems projects POC to launch.    Knowledge Base  Mortara: eSCRIBE, HScribe, Eli Link, Mortara Web Upload, Eli PC  GE: Muse v9 Cardio Information System  eDevice: Wire X  Globalscape sFTP  Global Instrumentation, HDS  Windows 2003 - 2016  Pagerduty, Work Experience Clinical Systems Administrator eResearch Technologies - Philadelphia, PA October 2011 to Present Project-managed large and small-scale initiatives involving the transition of programs to new platforms and the merger of legacy systems from acquired companies.  ? Lead IT Support in multiple project planning initiatives for implementing, launching and supporting of all clinical systems for the lifetime of the project.  ? Achieved seamless migrations and integrations that were transparent to clients and internal users alike within the timelines of the project.  ? Involved in all phases of the project lifecycle from concept and requirements through launch and support for all projects within the clinical systems scope.  ? Monitors systems resources, storage, hardware, logs, key processes and scheduled jobs for capacity planning and growth  ? Collaborated effectively with project, product and program managers to ensure project deliverables remained on track and aligned with business goals and expectations  ? Created documentation for process flow and change control for all Clinical Systems; development and production environments  ? Reverse engineering application service lines to prepare for datacenter migration  ? Manage and maintain Windows Servers, Windows 2003, Windows 2008, Windows 2012  ? Worked with troubleshooting and updating application configurations (XMLs, etc)  ? Worked with application development team to understand and refine the current development lifecycle  ? Analyzed Windows and IIS log files to troubleshoot application and Server issues to identify root cause and determine the best practice to avoid or remediate the issue  ? Work with various teams to assist with troubleshooting efforts to identify and resolve any software issues  ? Worked with SAN/Storage team to ensure that the external storage is allocated/configured properly and available  ? Point person for mentor / training for team members    643 Elk Road  Monroeville NJ 08343  610-368-8280  hey_jennie@hotmail.com WebSphere Administrator Berkley Technologies Services - Wilmington, DE October 2008 to November 2010 Install and configuration of insurance websites in all environments using WebSphere, IBM IHS Server, WebSphere Deployment Manager, Application Server and WebSphere Express/ IBM AIX and Windows Platforms  ? Support configurations changes to existing JVM builds, data sources, heap size and NSB additions  ? Troubleshoots heap dumps and core files for jvm's using IBM's ISA tool.  ? Maintains current fix-pack installs for IHS, WebSphere, MQ, Plugin and SDK Systems Administrator Automated Financial Systems - Exton, PA November 2003 to December 2007 Installed WebSphere Application Servers v5.0 to 6.1.0.11. on various platforms such as AIX v5.2 and v5.3, Red Hat Linux 3.1 and Windows 2000 server.  ? Installed servers to client specifications, including the Apache Server v1.3.26 to v2.0.54, HTTP Servers for 6.1 and 6.1, DB2 and SQL.  ? Configured server to successfully communicate with WebSphere MQ and DB2v8.1.  ? Worked with assigned Project Managers to gain access to servers for installation, retrieving IP addresses, user names and passwords. Also ensured the OS was compatible with the version of software being installed.  ? Responsible for performance tuning of client servers, ranging from development servers, QA / pre-production to production using logs created by the servers.  ? Wrote program with other co-workers using CRON, that compressed log files and database information for tape storage.  ? Solely responsible for updating all servers with the latest FixPacks, Cumulative FixPacks and patches to ensure reliable performance. WebSphere Administrator AmerisourceBergen - Chesterbrook, PA February 2000 to September 2003 Structuring of a detailed redesign and installation plan for the conversion of WebSphere Application Server on IBM AS/400 / iSeries  ? Worked in conjunction with IBM support to debug initial WebSphere installation and updated successive installations with IBM Fix Packs and eFixes to resolve a wide variety of integration, JSP / Servlets and EJB deployment issues.  ? Maintain application configurations and directories for all company Internet and intranet sites using WebSphere Console, TurnOver, OperaionsNavigator/AS400 (IFS) and Windows Client Server 2000.  ? Outlined procedure for the integration of TurnOver with existing WebSphere architecture including IFS structure, replication of dynamic services to the WebSphere Application Server and security / authorization permissions.  ? Document and maintain properties, configuration and disaster recovery data for WebSphere and related systems as well as develop key preventative solutions to potential system problems.  ? Participate in the development and implementation of security protocols for WebSphere QEJB subsystem, Integrated File System (IFS) and AS400 objects    643 Elk Road  Monroeville NJ 08343  610-368-8280  hey_jennie@hotmail.com Web Developer Merit Industries - Bensalem, PA August 1999 to January 2000 Assisted in the design and development of company web sites using programming graphic applications for the design and launch of the project.  ? Assisted in the modifications of web site content to work with multiple browser applications and performed weekly content updates as needed.  ? Maintained server and applications updates as needed. Documented disaster recovery plan. Case Manager Premier Brokerage Services - Jenkintown, PA January 1997 to February 1999 Processed life insurance applications for individuals and small to medium size insurance companies.  ? Scheduled applicants to receive the proper medical exam, X-rays, EKG's and forwarded test results to the appropriate underwriter.  ? Coordinated agent licensing for various insurance companies and tracked commission payout to sales force.  ? Also handled general office tasks. New Business Coordinator Karr - Barth Associates - Bala-Cynwyd, PA May 1989 to August 1994 Processed applications for life, health and disability insurance as well as annuities and other insurance related investments for individuals and businesses alike.  ? Scheduled applicants to receive the proper medical exams based on policy requirements and forwarded test results to the appropriate underwriter.  ? Also handled general office tasks Education High school or equivalent Skills System Admin, System Administrator