LAN SECURITY ADMINISTRATOR LAN SECURITY <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> LAN SECURITY ADMINISTRATOR - CORTEVA AGRISCIENCE Clive, IA Seeking a professional or leadership position that best utilizes my strengths in analyzing, identifying, and problem-solving skills in Information Technology. Work Experience LAN SECURITY ADMINISTRATOR CORTEVA AGRISCIENCE April 2019 to Present • Administer Active Directory security permissions on users and groups across domain on servers, shares, directories, and subdirectories.  • Troubleshoot and resolve user issues or requests for network and directory access.  • Create, modify, and support mailbox accounts on Exchange.  • Add, update, and maintain security groups and roles on Active Roles Server (ARS).  • Provision and maintain user accounts across multiple domains and setting proper authority.  • Set access authority across servers on domain.  • Update or create documentation of system procedures and best practices.  • Analyze and develop and execute Powershell scripts to add, update, or create resources in Active Directory Users and Groups.  • Design and strategize Powershell scripting to implement scalable automation of creating, removing, and updating Active Directory Users and Groups, allowing for accuracy and efficiency.  • Develop Powershell scripts to find empty directories on servers and delete the empty directories, increasing the proficiency of reports.  • Design, create, and implement Powershell scripts to automate dailys tasks aligned with day to day business needs. LEAD SYSTEMS ANALYST STATE OF IOWA/DISABILITY DETERMINATION SERVICES August 1999 to March 2018 • Analyze, maintain, and support of all LAN/WAN IT systems that includes network infrastructure, business applications, legacy applications, operating systems, workstations, servers, and all associated hardware.  • Provide 1st & 2nd tier helpdesk support while troubleshooting and problem-solving all computer, server, network, or data related issues. Tracking and documenting all issues in JIRA ticketing system.  • Create and update documentation of business processes & procedures, and helpdesk & system issues.  • Troubleshoot, maintain, and resolve all desktop and server applications, researching root cause of all issues and be proactive in taking preventive measures to ensure system availability.  • Install, configure, and manage Windows server 2000, 2003, 2008, 2012, and 2016; including server directory permissions, Active Directory group permissions, and share permissions.  • Install OS patches or updates on servers and workstations as needed.  • Install, configure, maintain, and support print server solutions to business applications.  • Administer, maintain, and support of Active Directory and Exchange by adding, deleting, or modifying user profiles or mailboxes, manage security groups, and set appropriate permissions.  • Create or modify batch scripts in MS DOS, and Powershell to modify or update server or workstation configuration, user profiles, or resolve system issues.  • Create, update, and manage employee and survey databases on SQL Server utilizing SQL Server Management Studio and SQL Server Reporting Services.  • Continually evaluating & analyzing existing or new business processes and provide or recommend technical and functional solutions to improve business processes including cost analysis and feasibility.  • Work with users and managers translating conceptual user requirements into functional system requirements, such as developing, designing, and implementing of Consultative Examination Scheduling system module.  • Recommend system changes, enhancements, or upgrades by using data analysis to analyze and identify key patterns or changes to network systems.  • Project lead on various key projects such as legacy software migration, software installs or upgrades, operating system upgrades, workstation replacement, server replacement, and other key projects in line with the agency's goals and directives.  • Lead or assist in planning, coordinating, and executing tests on legacy case processing system, or windows base software such as phone auto-dialing system. Documenting and communicating issues found in testing and manage the process for corrective action.  • Create, maintain, implement, and document backup and disaster recovery plans on Windows Servers, and IBM System i systems by installing, configuring, and maintaining backup software such as NTBackup, Veritas, SCCM, and BRMS; while documenting the backup strategies and procedures.  • Working experience in Agile methodology in developing a web-based national Disability Case Processing System (DCPS).  • Create, modify, and manage reports from legacy case processing system on IBM System i, using IBM Query 400 to create or modify employee statistical reports, workflow reports, or fiscal reports. Importing the data to Excel, lead or assist managers in creating charts or pivot tables as needed.  • Write and execute SQL scripts in IBM System i, and SQL Server Management Studio to troubleshoot or resolve system or database related issues.    TECHNOLOGY EXPERIENCE  IBM System i operating system, SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), Windows Server 2008, Windows Server 2012, Microsoft Office Suites (WORD, EXCEL, ACCESS, POWERPOINT), Microsoft Office 365, Dreamweaver, Atlassian software (JIRA, CONFLUENCE, Bitbucket) Education MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY - Ames, IA ASSOCIATES OF ARTS LEEWARD COMMUNITY COLLEGE - Pearl City, HI Skills Problem-solving, Leadership skills, Workflow Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY  • Strong oral & written communication skills with effective interpersonal skills.  • Possess strong analytical, technical, problem-solving, & critical thinking skills.  • Strong ability to adapt, prioritize, & coordinate projects and meet deadlines.  • Proven leadership skills by prioritizing work, developing an efficient workflow, and managing team members to achieve operational goals.  • Self-motivated and directed, but also have a strong ability to work on a team-orient environment.