Information Systems Security Engineer Information <span class="hl">Systems</span> Security Engineer ISSE Waldorf, MD IT professional with over 20 years of experience. Skilled in performing a wide variety of functions, including: systems architectural design, Unix administration and engineering, system implementation; hardware/software installation, storage administration and troubleshooting within heterogeneous environments. Work Experience Information Systems Security Engineer Department of Navy - Patuxent River Naval Air Station, MD October 2014 to Present Instrumental in designing, developing, installing, testing and maintaining Commercial off-the-shelf (COTS)/Government off-the-shelf (GOTS) hardware and software components for Information Technology (IT) systems running at Multi-Level Security (MLS) enclaves in heterogeneous environments. Conducted research, resolved problems, made recommendations and developed policies for process improvements and evaluated future technologies & strategies aimed at improving the infrastructure in a concentrated effort with Information Assurance to improve security practices deployed to support the Information Technology architecture.  Served as the lead technical subject matter expert (SME) on architectural cyber security Information System (IS) related matters. Executed risk assessments to determine the potential threats posed by the integration of new system capabilities. Worked with Information Assurance to define policies and principles ensuring the requisite compliance and accreditation documentation was complete in accordance with Risk Management Framework (RMF) and NIST 800-53 policies which led to an Authority to Operate (ATO) for two High Performance Computing environments. As part of the accreditation process for an MLS Information System I developed a Certified Test Plan (CTP) that was used to illustrate the technical integration involved in delivering a system capable of operating at different security enclaves, which led to an ATO. Coordinated the efforts of several teams on the design and implementation of a 3200 core High Performance Computing computational cluster operating on a 100GB OminPath High Speed Network running RHEL 7.x and Windows 2012R2 operating systems. Project lead responsible for coordinating and managing projects and providing on-going customer communications and updates regarding project status ensuring IT services are available and secure.  Met with stakeholders and created a requirements questionnaire to help elicit system requirements from the business units and worked to translate those requirements into viable system architectural solutions. Responsible for providing technical guidance, managing resources project/program requirements, objectives, and schedules for the Information Technology team. Working to distinguish capability gaps between current and the target IT architecture and developing plans for transitioning to target architecture such as Amazon Web Services, High Performance Clusters capable of running Multi-Level Security enclaves and Cross domain solutions (CDS).  Achieved IAT level III certification in accordance with SECNAV M-5392.2 for specialty area IAT.     Sr. Systems Administrator at Air ManTech Incorporated May 2014 to October 2014 4.10 Data Center - Responsible for applying Security Technical Implementation Guide (STIGS) procedures to systems running RHEL 6.5. Responsible for supporting RHEL 6.5 Advanced Clustering HPC systems and workstations. Architects, installs and configures servers running RHEL. Provisioned RHEL 6.x, Windows 2008 R2 and Windows 7 operating system images, patches and service packs to various hardware platforms. Responsible for systems monitoring and maintaining data resources to ensure proper system performance and integrity. Instrumental in identifying system related problems and restoring system operation. Managed VMware ESXi environment. Supported and maintained Network Appliance storage systems. Sr. Systems Administrator Watts Systems Consulting Incorporated March 2013 to March 2014 at Naval Logistics Data Center - Responsible for applying Security Technical Implementation Guide (STIGS) procedures to systems running SUSE Linux hosted on Teradata systems. Performed daily system administration tasks to include backup and recovery using NetVault and Tivoli Storage Manager, performance tuning, troubleshooting, creating scripts and monitoring AIX and SUSE Linux systems. Responsible for patching, managing users, roles, groups and access permissions on VMWare ESXi infrastructure.  Job Title: Sr. Systems Administrator at SEC - Configured and installed Oracle Sun Cluster 3.3 high availability platform. Installed and configured ZFS 7320 appliance and provisioned storage to satisfy user request. Provisioning Solaris 10 O/S using JET to deploy operating system image and patches to systems. Worked with team members on migrating new Primary and Disaster Recovery Data Centers for SEC. Navy ERP Contractor SAIC October 2006 to March 2013 Job Title: Sr. Systems Administrator - Responsible for installing, configuring and maintaining Sun SPARC Enterprise M9000, Sun Fire 25k, 6900, and other Sun Fire systems in both Solaris 9, 10 sparc and x86 environments. Configured and installed Solaris zones. Installed and configured various disk management applications such as Solstice Volume Manager, Veritas Volume Manager 5.0 and ZFS. Maintained enterprise wide system backup for Unix environment using Veritas NetBackup DataCenter Server 7.5.0.4. Designed, configured and maintained a high availability platform using Veritas Cluster Server 5.0 software running on Unix servers supporting Navy ERP applications. Responsible for establishing administration, and security policies, standards and procedures in support of the Navy ERP project. Provide leadership and instruction to team members in the areas of systems installation, configuration, monitoring and the restoration of system services. Responsible for the installation and management of BSM, Tripwire and EventTracker agents on Solaris systems. Contractor Watts Systems Incorporated May 2006 to October 2006 Job Title: Systems Architect - Responsible for gathering application requirements and translating them into system requirements. In charge of developing system architectural diagrams for all system life cycles. Served as the liaison between the business units and integration teams ensuring fluidity in system implementation. Conducted performance analysis resulting in requisition of more robust, reliable and scalable systems. Sr. Systems Administrator Rgii Technologies August 2004 to May 2006 Provide UNIX Systems Administration support to NAVAIR. Responsible for administration and maintenance of Solaris systems and various software products including Veritas Volume Manager, NetBackup DataCenter, Solaris DiskSuite, Network time Protocol, and DNS/BIND. Lead/execute tasks for testing and implementation of installation, upgrades and migrations including installation and upgrade of the operating system and software applications, account management, device configuration, performance tuning, setting up users ID's, disaster recovery, log monitoring and overall systems monitoring. Conduct configuration management, in addition to developing and documenting standard operating procedures for Solaris, Middleware and Tivoli environments. Responsible for maintaining and administering the middleware environment consisting of MQSeries and WebMethods software. In charge of administration and management of the Tivoli monitoring and scheduling infrastructure. Sr. Systems Administrator National Association of Securities of Dealers (NASD) February 2002 to August 2004 Responsible for the systems design and implementation of the Alternate Display Facility stock exchange system consisting of Unix (Solaris) and EMC storage. Responsible for configuring and maintaining Sun Fire 6800 and V880 servers in addition to setting up EMC Symmetrix 3830 and 8530 storage units. Installed and configured various disk management applications such as Solstice DiskSuite 4.2.1, Veritas Volume Manger 3.2, PowerPath 3.0.1 and ECC 4.3.1. Designed and implemented enterprise wide system backup for Unix environment using Veritas NetBackup Business Server 3.4 and 4.5. Designed and implemented a high availability platform using Veritas Cluster 2.0 software running Unix servers supporting financial applications. Responsible for establishing administration, and security policies, standards and procedures in support of the Alternate Display Facility project. Provide leadership and instruction to team members in the areas of systems installation, configuration, monitoring and the restoration of system services. Senior Systems Engineer VeriSign, Inc - Dulles, VA May 2000 to December 2001 Implemented a distributed storage infrastructure to support development and production environments utilizing Network Appliance 740 filers. Designed and implement high availability system using HACMP/ES running on p680 Aix systems connected to EMC 3830 Symmetrix storage units. Implemented architectural standards for Unix (Aix, Solaris, and Linux) platforms. Recommended the appropriate computer platform(s) required to support distributed client server, and web-based business processes and information flows. Provided integrated system planning and recommend new or different technologies, which enhanced systems and supported overall corporate and business goals. Translated system requirements into detailed design documents. Provided second tier support for production, quality assurance and development environments. Senior Systems Administrator Bell Atlantic, Inc - Silver Spring, MD January 2000 to May 2000 Responsible for providing third tier production support ensuring system reliability and availability. Technical lead responsible for maintaining and creating Intranet procedures and standards for team members to utilize in maintaining systems integrity. Conduct extensive research in determining root cause of various problems leading to systems availability. Senior Systems Administrator Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation - Washington, DC May 1999 to December 1999 Implemented security standards, installed third party software and provided various Solaris systems administration functions. Senior Systems Administrator Watts Systems Incorporated - Washington, DC June 1995 to May 1999 Technical lead responsible for installing and maintaining Veritas 2.1 High - Availability solutions for mission critical servers running on Ultra Enterprise 5000's. Provided system administration and technical leadership in a large client/server environment, consisting of 200 SPARC servers and 1000 Sun Workstations. Responsible for maintaining client support, which incorporated and utilized various troubleshooting skills to resolve problems on Solaris and HP-UX platforms such as NIS+, NFS, ODS, Volume manager 2.5, and High - Availability issues. Installed and configured various Sun Systems, which included Sparc 690's, SPARCserver 1000's, 2000's, and various workstations, voyagers, consisting of Solaris 2.x, SunOS 4.x, and point to point software. Senior Systems Administrator I-NET, INC., Internal Revenue Service - Washington, DC February 1995 to June 1995 Assisted in the configuration and design of SPARCenter 2000 and Clarion disk array, supporting Oracle 7.1.3 and PNMS, utilizing a 10BASET network to support up to 250 concurrent users, in a production environment. Configured NIS+ environment, which supported multiple domains in order to assist in the management of IRS INOMS project. Conducted online backups using Openvision Netbackup and automated backup scripts to backup Oracle, and PNMS databases and Unix files. Provided guidance and training for several junior systems administrators. Systems Administrator - Configured Sun Sparc LX's I-NET, INC., Internal Revenue Service - Washington, DC March 1994 to February 1995 5's, and 10's with Solaris 2.3, client version of PNMS, Oracle forms 4.0, and Oracle reports 2.0. Added and deleted users accounts on the SPARCenter 1000, and 2000. Configured multiple printers to support network and standalone print capabilities in a heterogeneous environment. Inventory Management Specialist United States Air Force, Bolling AFB - Washington, DC February 1990 to February 1994 Configured Sperry/60 computers in a heterogeneous environment to support the logistical database at Bolling, AFB. Supply squadron. Implemented procedures to improve timely processing of documents, which increased productivity and reduced workload time by thirty percent.    Hardware Experience  Sun Fire 25k Servers 6 years IBM p680 1 year  Sun Fire 6800/6900 Server's 6 years IBM M80 1 year  Sun Ultra Enterprise Servers 5 years IBM H70 1 year  Sun SPARCenter Servers 5 years Network Appliance Filers (740) 1 year  Sun SPARCstations 5 years ZFS 7320 Appliance 1 year  EMC Symmetrix (3830/8530) 1 year Sun Ultra Enterprise MX000 Servers 5 years    Operating System Experience  RHEL- 7 years, Solaris 2.x - 13 years, Solaris 10 - 8 years, HP 10.20 - 1 year, AIX 4.3.3 - 1 year    Software Product Experience  MQSeries 5.x - 1 year, Oracle 8- 1 year, Oracle 10g - 2 year, Sybase 10 - 3 years, Sybase 11 - 1 year    Security Clearance: Top Secret SCI  SAP Eligible Education B.S in Information Systems Management University of Maryland University College August 2015 to Present NIST October 2014 to Present