Client Systems Administrator Client <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Client Systems Administrator Sacramento, CA Greetings, I'm an Air Force Veteran with over 15 years of dedicated military service. Currently, I'm seeking employment opportunities within the Information Technology/ Cyber Security Career field. Presently, I hold an active Security clearance as well as a current Security+ Certification. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Client Systems Administrator USAF July 2017 to Present CompTIA Security+  USAF Airman Leadership Course  USAF Security Forces Craftsman Course  USAF Combat Leaders Course  CompTIA Network+ (Anticipated Cert Aug 2019)  USAF Client Systems Course  USAF IT Fundamentals Course  DoD IT Risk Management framework course Education Associate of Applied Science in Computer Science Community College of the Air Force 2019 Associate of Applied Science in Criminal Justice Community College of the Air Force 2017 Bachelor of Science in Media Arts and Animation The Art Institute of California - San Francisco, CA 2017 Skills Architecture (4 years), Audit (3 years), authentication (10+ years), Comsec (10+ years), Data loss prevention (5 years), Dod (10+ years), encryption (10+ years), intrusion, intrusion detection (3 years), life cycle., Linux (3 years), loss prevention (5 years), Mitigation (8 years), Nessus (3 years), Network security (5 years), Regulatory compliance (5 years), scanning (5 years), Security architecture (4 years), security policies (5 years), solutions, Vmware (5 years), System Administrator (3 years), System Admin, Active Directory (5 years), Desktop Support, Information Technology (5 years), Network Support, It Specialist, Help Desk (3 years), IOS (5 years), Secret Clearance, Computer Repair, Comptia Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: E-6/TSgt Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ April 2019 to April 2022 Vendor-neutral certification that validates the baseline skills necessary to perform core security functions and pursue an IT security career. Additional Information WORK EXPERIENCE  River Tech LLC - Beale AFB, CA May 2019 - Present  Electronic Flight Bag (EFB) Manager  • Responsible for the maintenance, operation and training for the EFB system.  • Ensure the electronic flight bag servers have all required software patches and can operate on the Air Force computer network.  • Plan upgrades to the servers at such a time to have minimal impact on daily operations.  • Schedule and upgrade the EFB system software as updates become available from the EFB vendor. These upgrades will be in compliances with DoD STIG standards for Mobile Device Management.  • Manage EFB program and devices as well as interface with Stan/Eval and Training offices.  • Ensure that all DoD IS cybersecurity related documentation is current and accessible to properly authorized individuals.    U.S. Air Force Reserve - Travis AFB, CA June 2017 - Present  Client Systems Technician  • Applied information security principles, methods, and security products to maintain the  confidentiality, integrity and availability of information system resources and information processed  through the system's life cycle.  • Established, published, and maintained base-wide policies to manage the Computer Security  program.  • Utilized current multi-level security products collectively to provide information integrity,  confidentiality, authentication and non-repudiation.  • Implemented and advised on IT security policies and procedures to ensure protection of  information transmitted within and outside of the organizational network.