SharePoint Manager and Solution Architect SharePoint Manager and Solution Architect SharePoint Manager and Solution Architect - Indiana University, School of Medicine Carmel, IN Profile Summary  • Oversee the design, build and management of an enterprise level SharePoint collaboration solution to derive better data security, higher efficiency and greater productivity.  • Serve as a Microsoft SharePoint subject matter expert  • Architecting and directing the development and deployment of custom business solutions  • Construct annual budgets, mange projects to achieve set goals, on time and on budget  • Lead and manage the collaboration team members, projects, and daily tasks  • Manage the server's farm security and availability and ensure adherence to SOP and established policies    Personal Statement    As a senior member of the IT (Information Technology) Management team, I continue to take the initiative with large projects and complex issues. I have a great talent of putting my clients at ease and make them feel confident in what I deliver.    I strive to provide the best over-all solutions and designs. I start by gathering functional requirements and data definitions. I make sure I listen attentively. I then suggest possible solutions, design, and finally develop, and test the applications.    I maintain a leadership role in IT with emphasis on project management, infrastructure design and implementation. I am an eager learner, self- motivated who continues to acquire new skills and talent.    Technology focus:  • Collaboration (SharePoint)    • Virtualization    • Infrastructure design and management    At the office, I like to keep things on the lighter side. I like to keep a good rapport with my colleagues, and enjoy a group walk to lunch.    When I am not behind a computer, I like to enjoy a good game of Soccer (that is Football to some of us), grilling a nice meal, or taking a bike ride. Work Experience SharePoint Manager and Solution Architect Indiana University, School of Medicine - Indianapolis, IN November 2000 to Present • Member of the Pediatrics' IT Management Team  • Business Analysis and Solution Development:  ? Oversee the building, testing and deployment of educational, research, and clinical based solutions to facilitate data access, data collection, or to provide workflow process  ? Research industry trends, applicable solutions and best practices and recommend technology changes based on business needs  ? Manage business solution development lifecycle such as analysis, design, implementation and support. Verify deliverables, budgets and quality.  ? Translate business and functional requirements into specific system, application, or process designs for on-promises IT infrastructure    • Project Management and Budgetary Duty:  ? Provide subject matter expertise to School of Medicine, regional campuses, IUHP Pediatrics (Indiana University Health Partners), and business units in SharePoint based solution development and collaboration  ? Contributes to the information technology operational strategies in the department, IUHP Pediatrics, and the School's. Recommend changes to the IT Director.  ? Manage contracts and vendor relations, and negotiate service level agreements  ? Construct and manage the team's annual budget and participate in the overall departmental IT budgetary planning    • Documentation and Governance:  ? Lead the development of best practice processes and standard operating procedures (SOPs). Ensure all documentation accuracy and quality  ? Document and diagram SOPs, server farm architecture, implementation steps, and installed solutions  ? Enforce SharePoint Governance and document any deviation from standards    • Platform Architecture:  ? In charge of building and providing school-wide, multi-campus, enterprise level high-availability collaboration environment for the school's business units and clinical process.  ? Oversee all aspects of management and support of the collaboration platform:  ? Manage the procurement of the hardware and its implementations and installation  ? Hardware Layer: Expert level requirement in Storage Area Network (NAS), server hardware, and network connectivity  ? Software Layer: Expert level requirement in Windows server's software, SQL database server software, and SharePoint collaboration servers  ? Virtualization Layer: Expert level requirement in Hyper-V virtualization environment which provides virtualization services through hypervisor-based emulations  ? Security Layer: Ability to track data and make sure it is always encrypted, in transit and at rest. Ability to setup and configure Internet Gateway to keep SharePoint sites secure and to mitigate against hacks and attacks    • Staff Management  ? Responsible for hiring and training team members to handle any issue and routine tasks  ? Manage staff's cross-training and after-hours support process  ? Head search and screening committee, interview and recommend hiring new team members  ? Manage team members, their career paths, their training, skill sets and expectations  ? Manage staff's daily and weekly tasks, priorities, and projects. Provide annual evaluation and recommend improvements and promotions Systems Administrator Indiana University School of Education - Indianapolis, IN June 1995 to November 2000 • Managed the School of Education entire IT operations, servers and desktops    • Supervised three technical staff and one work study student    • Managed 4 servers running on Windows NT and Windows 2000    • Participated in the strategic planning for the school's IT infrastructure Education Masters of Science in Mechanical Engineering in Mechanical Engineering Purdue University Bachelors of Science in Mechanical Engineering in Mechanical Engineering Purdue University Bachelors of Science in Biomedical Engineering in Biomedical Engineering Purdue University Skills Clustering, Networking, Virtualization, Hyper-v, Sharepoint, Microsoft sharepoint, Sql server, Sql, Deployment, Application development, Application server, Web application server, Content management, Enterprise application, Ipsec, Ssl, User interface, Best practices, Problem solving, Business intelligence Links http://LinkedIn.com/IN/Mustaklem Additional Information Technical Skills  SharePoint  • Ten years of SharePoint experience in installing and managing enterprise level SharePoint farms.    • Install and manage SharePoint servers on the local (on premise) infrastructure.    • Install and configure SharePoint on single and multi-server farm. Perform updates and upgrades.    • Install and configure Office Web Application server.    • Create and maintain instructional documentation for new designs and software deployment.    • Analyze, and implement new solutions and modify existing ones to meet business requirements.    • Migrate sites using 3rd party tools. Install and deploy web parts and third party applications.    • Run tests to verify farm settings, backup, connectivity and general farm health.    • Custom develop a new SharePoint user interface to help with users' adaption of SharePoint    • Custom develop a mobile SharePoint template to allow clients to connect using mobile phones and tablets.    SQL and Databases    • Install and configure SQL server. Setup and configure availability groups and Microsoft clustering setup backup plans.    • Create DB maintenance plan according to Microsoft best practices. Able to secure servers and databases and run baseline security analysis.    Windows Server maintenance and upkeep    • Work independently and follow SOP for servers' maintenance and patching.    • Tackle server errors and inspect event logs frequently. Well versed with server security and server hardening. Familiarity with IPSec, SSL, and networking connectivity.    Virtualization (Hyper-V)    • Well versed in Hyper-V virtualization platform.    • Able to create, maintain and backup guest virtual servers    Other Proficiencies and Talent  • Ability to work well with clients, individually, as well as in a collaborative team setting    • Ability to effectively communicate issues, resolutions, and ideas both with individual clients, IT director, and C-level stake holders    • Excellent communication skills such as written and verbal skills as well as presentation skills to conduct demonstration meetings and end-user training.    • Attentive to details. Ability to stay organized and follow-up with business unit management directorships    • Meticulous organizational skills and ability to see the bigger picture.    • Ability to multitask and manage multiple simultaneous projects, staff, contractors, and budgets    • Thorough understanding of SharePoint to consult with precision and help business units leverage the SharePoint platform and maximize its utilization    • Meet with business units, analyze business processes and recommend appropriate solutions to streamline operations and improve productivity    • Ability to contribute to team's success and partake in the critical thinking and problem solving process    • Strong leadership skills to mentor and empower the support team and direct reports    • Full understanding of best practices for architectural design, understanding the Microsoft SharePoint solution stack. Thorough understanding of enterprise application development involving business processes and Forms, Workflows, Business Intelligence (BI), Collaboration, Enterprise Content Management, and SharePoint team sites.