Systems Administrator - MSP <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> - MSP Systems Administrator - MSP Long Island City, NY ? Secure a position in a productive setting to advance my career in Information Technology.  ? Expert at troubleshooting and resolving malfunctions by using exceptional technical and  communication skills, to ensure minimization of downtime and optimal systems performance. Work Experience Systems Administrator - MSP Neteam Solutions, Inc - Astoria, NY January 2018 to July 2019 • Promptly resolve support tickets remotely and onsite.  • Design, build, and support systems, networks, and application infrastructure.  • Apply inductive reasoning to resolve unforeseen and challenging system issues.  • Act as an unofficial escalation channel for Help Desk technicians.  • Collaborate effectively with internal and third-party contacts for the successful design and execution of projects.  • Utilize Apple DEP, Jamf, and Apple Profile Manager for MDM deployments and management.  • Evaluate clients' technology needs and usage and recommend improvements to provide optimal  end-user experience. IT Specialist 2/3 Softworld, inc. - Nassau County, NY - Hempstead, NY July 2017 to January 2018 at Hempstead school District  • Worked in a team environment to support multi-site networks.  • Created GPO to address mass deployment, configuration, and various end-user management.  • Performed hands-on repairs on PCs, projectors, and mobile devices.  • Carried out tasks as directed by the IT Director to ensure user satisfaction.  • Recommended and implemented changes to procedure to provide optimal user experience.  • Monitored existing Exsi VMs and addressed or escalated finding as needed.  • Utilized Airwatch and Apple MDM for Mobile device management. Field Technician Professional Data Systems - Brooklyn, NY August 2016 to March 2017 • Promptly resolved support tickets using RMM tools. Communicated with vendors to resolve third-party related issues.  • Administered MS Windows Servers 2003- 2016 R2.  • Administered Lan/Wan network technology. Implemented backup solutions.  • Maintained overall user environment.  • Clearly documented all tickets and procedures for uncommon issues. Desktop Support Engineer - MSP Neteam Solutions, Inc - Astoria, NY November 2015 to May 2016 • Took ownership of all assigned tickets and completed them in a timely manner.  • Followed-up with clients as tickets progressed.  • Clearly documented all tickets and customer's network related data.  • Perform Network administrative duties.  • Acted as first point of contact with clients and vendors to prevent downtime. Junior Systems Administrator BCNS Inc - Midtown, NY, US January 2015 to November 2015 • Full infrastructure deployments. (Physical, Virtual, Exchange, Terminal, AD etc.)  • Promptly resolved tickets remotely via Logmein or onsite.  • Communicated with vendors and ISP to resolve external issues.  • Scheduled and attended to email alerts regarding system health (such as; daily backup, network  activity, and server health)  • Recommended and implemented network management tools and Linux Ticketing system. Systems Administrator Tier Patient Focus Medical - Richmond Hill, NY July 2014 to January 2015 • Managed and upgraded existing servers, printers, and workstations.  • Deployed and Managed servers, printers, and Workstations.  • Implemented Backup & Maintenance of all workstation and servers.  • Performed remote deployment of network and workstations.  • Address daily support requests for a multi-site company with 200+ employees.  • Implemented employee training measures.  • Troubleshoot and repaired computer systems, printers and mobile devices. Education Associates in Computer Engineering Tech QueensBorough Community College - Bayside, NY September 2014 Francis Lewis High School - Fresh Meadows, NY 2005 to 2009 Skills System Administrator, Active Directory, System Admin, Vmware, Linux Additional Information TECHNICAL QUALIFICATIONS  Windows Servers 2008R2, 2012R2, 2016, and 2019  Deployment, Configuration and Migration of servers.  AD Domain Services, Certificate Services.  Group Policy, DHCP, DNS, File and Print Roles.  Terminal Servers, session and VM based.  Backups: Arcserve UDP, Acronis, and Windows    Backup.    Network Administrator  Full infrastructure buildups and redundancy.   VPN: OpenVPN,  L2TP/IPSec, SSTP Pepvpn.  Virtualization: Hyper-V and ESXI knowledge.   VOIP: Avaya System and FreePBX.  Switches and Routers. Sophos, SonicWall, Peplink, and Various Linux Distros.     Exchange Server 2010 and 2013, 2016, and 2019  Deployment, Configuration and Migration of Exchange.  Troubleshoot, repair and maintain servers.   Deployment of DAG, DKIM, SPF, DMARC.  Office 365 and Google Apps.  Implement Spam filter and Quarantine policies.  Mass mailbox configurations via Powershell.    User-End Solutions  Connectwise, and Teamviewer   Windows XP,7,8,8.1,10.  Mac OS X 10.6 to 10.10.   QuickBooks, Sage, HeavySoft, Microsoft Office etc.  Hardware Setup and repair. Custom PC builds.