Data Systems Administrator Data <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Data Systems Administrator - U.S. Marine Forces Reserve Columbus, OH Work Experience Data Systems Administrator U.S. Marine Forces Reserve - Cincinnati, OH May 2015 to Present Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Time In Service: 4 Years    Present Rank: Sergeant (E-5)  Active Security Clearance: Secret  MOS Description:  -Build and configure communications networks utilizing Cisco routing and switching protocols.    -Operate, maintain, and troubleshoot secure and nonsecure networks in order to facilitate battlefield communication. Solve complex problems quickly in a high- stress environment.    -Deploy a Microsoft Server Environment in order to facilitate user end services. Install, administrate, and troubleshoot Windows active directory and Exchange hosts, and install and employ user-end services such as PKI and SolarWinds via Windows Server Suite.     Billet: Platoon Sergeant  Billet Description:    -Carry out all orders and tasks as may be given to the platoon by the company commander. Own responsibility for all the platoon does and fails to do. Act as a representative of the platoon in front of the chain of command.  -Advise and assist the platoon commander.    -Manage 25-50 Marines, offering guidance and ensuring all tasks are carried out accurately and in a timely manner.    -Act as a mentor to young Marines, focusing on instilling discipline and developing leadership in future noncommissioned officers.    Meaningful Accomplishments:  -Appointed to platoon sergeant, which is considered a Staff Sergeant (E-6) billet, as a Corporal (E-4).    -Earned recognition from superiors, including the commanding officer, due to the noticeable improvement and effectiveness of the platoon.  -Meritoriously promoted to Corporal.  -Meritoriously promoted to Sergeant.    -Selected to attend Officer Candidates School.    Skills Attained:  -Leadership.    -Mentoring, Training, and Developing leaders.  -Writing and Public Speaking.    -Effective professional communication.    -Ability to operate effectively in high-stress environments.  -Managing teams ranging from 4 to 150 individuals.  -Operating within deadlines or time constraints.  Supervisor: Travis Nichols (9375612612)  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes Warehouse Associate Vintage Wine Distributor - Columbus, OH September 2018 to April 2019 2277 Westbrooke Drive    Columbus, OH 43228 United States  09/2018 - 04/2019    Salary: 13.50 USD Per Month  Hours per week: 20  Warehouse Associate  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Operate forklifts and other heavy warehouse machinery in order to stock cases of wine in the appropriate location given business demands.    Accurately process inbound shipments, and pull product from storage in preparation for outbound orders.    Efficiently complete assigned tasks under little to no supervision.    Understand and abide by OHSAA safety regulations.    Smokehouse Brewing Company  1130 Dublin Road    Columbus, OH 43215 United States  09/2017 - 01/2018    Salary: 12.00 USD Per Hour  Hours per week: 24  Line Cook  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Operate the grill in a casual sit-down restaurant, cooking and assembling menu items according to recipe in an accurate and efficient manner.    Prepare various ingredients prior to the start of business, operating under strict time constraints in order to ensure adequate preparation for the upcoming shift.    Maintain a clean, sanitary working area.    https://www.usajobs.gov/Applicant/ProfileDashboard/Resumes/ 1/2  6/4/2019 Print Resume    Practice utmost organization and attention to detail in order to facilitate rapid access to ingredients in order to keep up with customer demand.    Maintain a cool and calm demeanor in a fast-paced, high-pressure environment.    Schneider Electric Services  9870 Crescent Park Drive    West Chester, OH 45069 United States  04/2016 - 08/2016    Salary: 17.00 USD Per Hour  Hours per week: 40    Mechanical Engineering Intern  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Worked under Design Engineering Supervisor on hands-on, self-paced projects to gain real world experience as a first year engineering student. Projects  involved creating and updating design blueprints on AutoCad and ProEngineer and hands-on assembly of designs. Line Cook Smokehouse Brewing Company - Columbus, OH September 2017 to January 2018 1130 Dublin Road    Columbus, OH 43215 United States  09/2017 - 01/2018    Salary: 12.00 USD Per Hour  Hours per week: 24  Line Cook  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Operate the grill in a casual sit-down restaurant, cooking and assembling menu items according to recipe in an accurate and efficient manner.    Prepare various ingredients prior to the start of business, operating under strict time constraints in order to ensure adequate preparation for the upcoming shift.    Maintain a clean, sanitary working area.    https://www.usajobs.gov/Applicant/ProfileDashboard/Resumes/ 1/2  6/4/2019 Print Resume    Practice utmost organization and attention to detail in order to facilitate rapid access to ingredients in order to keep up with customer demand.    Maintain a cool and calm demeanor in a fast-paced, high-pressure environment.    Schneider Electric Services  9870 Crescent Park Drive    West Chester, OH 45069 United States  04/2016 - 08/2016    Salary: 17.00 USD Per Hour  Hours per week: 40    Mechanical Engineering Intern  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Worked under Design Engineering Supervisor on hands-on, self-paced projects to gain real world experience as a first year engineering student. Projects  involved creating and updating design blueprints on AutoCad and ProEngineer and hands-on assembly of designs. Mechanical Engineering Intern Schneider Electric Services - West Chester, OH April 2016 to August 2016 9870 Crescent Park Drive    West Chester, OH 45069 United States  04/2016 - 08/2016    Salary: 17.00 USD Per Hour  Hours per week: 40    Mechanical Engineering Intern  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Worked under Design Engineering Supervisor on hands-on, self-paced projects to gain real world experience as a first year engineering student. Projects  involved creating and updating design blueprints on AutoCad and ProEngineer and hands-on assembly of designs. Education Bachelor's Degree in Military and Diplomatic History The Ohio State University - Columbus, OH August 2019 Skills Vmware, System Administrator, Active Directory, System Admin Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: E-5: Sergeant Certifications/Licenses Forklift Certified Assessments Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/zp2inqghglvuhd7q Project Management Skills: Time Management — Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to prioritize and allocate time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nddoxbkr99muo0tm Supervisory Skills: Interpersonal Skills — Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to maintain productive team working relationships by identifying conflict and settling disputes. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/pqsm6rdmsaahmeer Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.