System Administrator <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> I code and perform research & data analysis. Huntington, NY I'm a SUNY college grad with an interdisciplinary bachelor of science degree in science, technology and business administration. I'm a Python developer with a functional fluency in SQL, JavaScript, VBA, front-end HTML/CSS and NC G-code. I'm a PC power user, most comfortable with Microsoft enterprise software and network administration.     I benefit from a diverse body of experience ranging broadly from 501c nonprofit research, retail product development, and business system administration. I focus predominantly on business application development, RDBMS administration and data analytics.     I'm friendly, goal-oriented and I enjoy team work. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Administrator ANCHOR PROPERTY PRESERVATION - Saratoga Springs, NY April 2017 to Present Designed, developed and remotely operated the business information system for a small residential contracting company in upstate NY. System included a custom front-end onsite reporting tool for contractors in the field, backend data management system, and fair amount of data cleansing and entry. Performing industry-specific research and reporting. Employer relevant highlights include:  • Excel VBA  • Scripting software to automate business processes (Python, SQL, some VB)  • MS Access RDBMS (SQL) CAD Operator / Office Systems Administrator SPRUNG MONUMENTS - Huntington, NY September 2015 to June 2016 A CAD systems operator position more akin to a business systems administrator. Beyond operating the computer aided design software for the office, I opened and closed the office daily, performed CRM in a challenging environment, trained new hires as well as conducting numerous IT support tasks. Responsibilities included:  • Curating existing design catalog and components  • Computer aided design across multiple platforms - Cochran, Monu-CAD  • Graphic design / Composite imaging / Editing photos - Photoshop/ Paint.net  • Providing local office IT and network support (LAN support, Active Directory ACLs)  • Assisting with a wide variety of office administrative duties  • Professional customer service and correspondence Niche Product Developer Self Own Business - Halesite, NY September 2014 to September 2015 A business model I conceived during my senior year in college. The idea was to leverage rapid prototyping technology to develop micro-niche products that would be otherwise too expensive to bring to market. I developed a few products, culminating with a successful and well-received market test. Unfortunately the product did not exceed the necessary benchmarks to warrant further development.  • Product design using multiple CAD platforms like Autodesk Inventor & AutoCAD  • Fused Deposition Modeling (3D Printer) operator/technician  • Quality assurance and customer relationship management  • Product research, development and analysis  • Business intelligence and analysis Research Assistant (Internship) NO LABELS FOUNDATION - Washington, DC August 2013 to December 2013 I was selected to participate in a professional internship program in Washington DC during my senior year of college at the Washington Internship Institute. I worked for NO LABELS, which is a nonpartisan policy think tank. I primarily conducted funding research and performed data entry. Employer relevant skills:  • Data cleansing and formatting  • Microsoft Excel and Salesforce data entry  • Correspondence Education Bachelor's in Science, Technology & Society (STS) FARMINGDALE STATE COLLEGE - Farmingdale, NY 2009 to 2014 Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), Autocad (5 years), Inventor (4 years), Sketchup (1 year), FDM (Fused Deposition Modeling) (4 years), CAD (6 years), Python (3 years), Javascript (Less than 1 year), IT Management (2 years), Excel (10+ years), SQL (2 years), IIS (Less than 1 year), Linux (Less than 1 year), Active Directory (Less than 1 year), Vmware (Less than 1 year), System Administrator (3 years), Linux Administrator (Less than 1 year), DFM (Design For Manufacture) (2 years), System Admin (3 years), Web Development (1 year), HTML (4 years), CSS3 (1 year) Links https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/specialization/GX8YMEG6GJ3H https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/specialization/XNHNNRKXEYAH Certifications/Licenses Google IT Support Professional Certificate Present I was specifically interested in the last two courses in the program, but the last four were all quite informative. It's self-proctored, so in that sense you only get out of it that which you put into it. I wish it were more rigorously proctored, on par with CompTIA A+, CISSP or CCNA. It's a good primer for those other certificates. IBM Data Science Professional Certificate Present A high-fidelity introduction to data science and machine learning. It's very informative with progressively challenging lab work. A prior background in linear algebra and the python programming language makes for a fairly painless progression. Assessments Technical Support — Expert April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/9riowevbr7z6br-4 Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/wcegyh02n4g4a5bl Basic Word Processing with Microsoft Word — Expert April 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of basic Microsoft Word techniques for word processing, including the use of tools to format or edit text. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/llnucxs6pxhdq-vd Data Analysis — Expert April 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/osh4-ricox1fi-vf Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.