NOC Systems Administrator NOC <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> NOC Systems Administrator - San Diego County Credit Union San Diego, CA Currently working in San Diego County Credit Union as NOC Systems Administrator.  - Seeking to leverage my skills to bring up fast intelligent solution to the engineering position at your company.  - Proficient with Networking Protocols, SDN, TCP/IP Protocol Suite, DNS, DHCP, LAN/WAN, CDN, VPN.  - Familiarity with tools like vSphere SolarWinds, Packet Tracer, Wireshark, Kaseya, Connectwise, ManageEngine.  - Familiarity of routing protocols: BGP, OSPF, EIGRP, VLAN etc  - Skilled installation Ethernet cable and rack mounting equipment as well as upgrading cisco router, switches and firewalls  - Proficiency in configuration of VLAN setup on Cisco Routers and Switches  - Knowledge of network security translations: IDS/IPS, VPN, SSL  - Extensive experience in assigning the permission using Active Directory, Office 365,  - Experience in monitoring Dell storage Checkpoint firewall, Cisco ASA, SonicWall, VPN connections and port forwarding Work Experience NOC Systems Administrator San Diego County Credit Union - San Diego, CA October 2018 to Present - Monitor availability, performance & capacity of all infrastructure, applications and processes.  - Extensive use of SolarWinds to monitor the network infrastructure including all applications.  - Perform patching of Windows, MAC and Linux servers.  - Use remote desktop client such as LogMeIn and Bomgar to assist end users remotely.  - Built servers, decommissioning and monitor progress of overnight processes using vSphere.  - Perform system maintenance to Cisco network devices, Dell Storage and servers.  - Create and maintain application distribution packages using group policy or other methods.  - Configure windows network services such as DNS, DHCP, FTP and IIS.  - Use of several security software's such as Sophos, Symantec, Forcepoint and Malwarebytes.  - Usage of CheckPoint firewall to see the traffic while troubleshooting.  - Escalated support for after hour operational issues and initiating the bridge calls as needed.  - Active Directory administration, management and monitored. Application updates, monitoring and performing backups.  - LAN/WAN administration, network documentation and adding any changes under ManageEngine ticketing system.  - Troubleshooting of connectivity issue such as VPN, FTP, website, internet access and internet issues.  - Participate in disaster recovery planning and procedures.  - Making physical connection on the Nexus switches, Cisco routers, Checkpoint and keeping the ready to be configured.  - Setting the load balancing on the WEB servers based on the priorities and the number of connections using F5's. System Administrator LAVI Industries - Los Angeles, CA March 2018 to October 2018 - Resolve of system and network problems utilizing network protocols such as NAS protocols (NFS, CIFS), TCP/IP, DNS  - Support network segments internet, servers and strong knowledge of local area network administration.  - Monitor networks to ensure security and availability to specific users and connect remotely using LogMeIn.  - Maintain network servers such as file servers, RAID, VPN gateways, IDS and IPS.  - Assisted with managing switches, routers, server and network hardware.  - Experience building, maintaining, and monitoring Microsoft Windows servers and clients (Server 2008, 2012, Windows  7, Windows 10 clients) and VMWare virtual machines and maintenance of almost 100 Mac computers via Jamf Pro.  - Administration of servers, desktop computers, printers, routers, switches, firewalls, and phones.  - Management of Microsoft Exchange 2013 and troubleshooting of network printers / desktops / DNS / DHCP.  - Troubleshoot client internet connectivity, VPN, backup and other network wide issues.  - Assist with management of VMware vSphere and to remotely connect to the servers.  - Proven abilities to administrate MS Exchange, Active Directory, DHCP and DNS services.  - Worked on computer hardware operating systems such as Windows, MacOS and Linux.  - Hands on experience on EDI and ERP systems such as JD Edwards and Infor-Syteline to provide administrative rights.  - Basic programming such as scripting (Power Shell) to automate processes and work flows.  - Worked on Unify to configure VoIP and digital phones (Siemens, Polycom and Cisco).  - Experience with Active Directory and leadership in Office 365 management. IT Support Engineer Optus Telecom - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2015 to July 2015 - Responsible for network monitoring and deployment using various tools like Kaseya, ConnectWise and Traverse.  - Experienced in G-suite environment, especially Google Apps Script.  - Recommended design changes for network systems that included router, switch, and firewall configuration  - Provided Customer service by verifying L2/L3 protocols on the Network setup.  - Extensively used TCP/IP tools like TELNET for remote login to the routers and SSH for secure login.  - Involved in 24x7 on-call escalation support as part of the network operations team and troubleshooting equipment's.  Malfunctions and circuitry faults with routers and switches in central office to ensure excellent service quality.  - Building teams effectiveness by promoting spirit of cooperation between team members.  - Ability to look at and analyze network traces (wire shark).  - Responding to the queries of junior associates and also calling back the customer to check if the issue has been resolved. System Support Engineer Reliance Industries - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2014 to December 2014 - Familiarity with TCP/IP configurations and how they interact (WINS, DHCP, DNS).  - Troubleshooting of LAN/WAN infrastructure, including routing protocols EIGRP, OSPF & BGP.  - Performed migration of old networking devices, adding new devices to infrastructure network.  - Configured Cisco Wireless Controller with Access Points.  - Project management in preparing network diagram for sites via Microsoft Visio 2010.  - Responsible for deployment and monitoring of Cisco Umbrella/OpenDNS.  - Worked on network-based IT systems such as racking, stacking and cabling.  - Understanding of remote connection tools, i.e., VNC and Remote Desktop Connection.  -Troubleshoot unified communication tools such as Polycom video conferencing systems and Skype for Business. Education Master of Science in Computer Networking in Computer Networking Wichita State University - Wichita, KS May 2017 Bachelor of Science in Electronics and Communication in Electronics and Communication Visveswaraya Technological University June 2014 Skills Cisco, Dhcp, Eigrp, Ipv6, Lan/wan, Layer 2, Ldap, Ospf, Tacacs, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vlan, Vpn, Dns, Exchange, Nas, Networking, Solarwinds, Ssl, Ethernet, Active Directory, Linux, Red Hat, System Admin, Redhat, System Administrator, Vmware Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/manish-manjrekar-054733110 Additional Information SKILLS  Networking skills:LAN/WAN, OSI and TCP/IP model, IPv6, LDAP, SAN, EIGRP, OSPF, NAS storage, SNMP, RAID,  Security policies (ACL, IPsec, SSL, VPN, RADIUS/ TACACS), SAN, CIFS,  Application level protocol (DNS, DHCP, VPN, FTP, SSL, HTTP/HTTPS), L2/L3 protocol, SDWAN  Telecom Skills: Voice over IP, QoS, SIP, Unify, Cisco Call Manager, Cisco Unity Express.  Network Hardware: Cisco Routers, Cisco Nexus, Cisco-ASA, Checkpoint, F5's, Dell EMC, Xtreme IO, NETGEAR.  Layer 2: Ethernet, PPP, Spanning Tree, RSTP, ARP, VLAN, VTP, 802.1q VLAN tagging.  Cabling: Ethernet (CAT 5, 5e, 6, 6a), Fiber Optics cable.  Programming basic: C, JAVA, PYTHON, HTML5 / CSS3, Bootstrap, J-Query.  Platforms: Windows Servers 2012, Centos, RedHat Android, Mac OS, UNIX.  Soft tool: Packet Tracer, GNS3, vSphere, SolarWinds, Office 365, Microsoft Exchange 2013, KACE.