IT Coordinator IT Coordinator IT Coordinator - Starboard Group Tamarac, FL Seeking position that will utilize exceptional training, certifications, solid work ethic and experience as a Network Support Specialist. Work Experience IT Coordinator Starboard Group June 2016 to Present • Handle escalated Help Desk call and inquiries in designated region upon unsatisfactory results at first level  • Managed competing demands between network management, desktop support, and system administration of core administrative staff.  • Installed, repaired, upgraded and maintained PCs, printers, servers, switches, firewalls and patch panels Systems Administrator The Computer Guyz July 2015 to April 2016 • Provide network administration support, including installing and upgrading software, implementing file backups, and configuring systems and applications.  • Monitoring system environment, including performing system health checks, resolving or escalating errors appropriately.  • Perform preventative maintenance, including patching system servers, updating passwords.  • Troubleshoot network related issues  • Field incoming help desk requests from end users via both telephone and e-mail in a courteous manner. Technical Support Representative 8x8 Inc October 2014 to November 2015 • Resolve technical issues associated with 8x8's hosted communications products via phone and e-mail within all levels of escalations  • Meet or exceed customer satisfaction and productivity metrics Knowledge and troubleshooting proficiency of Unified Communications, VOIP, and SIP technologies  • Responsible for troubleshooting installation, configuration, quality of service, billing, and how-to application issues. Education Associates of Science in Technology Broward College September 2016 to May 2019 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, DNS, TCP/IP, VLAN Assessments Technical Support — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/gnjpveqtnfe0pren Basic Computer Skills: PC — Familiar July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dvz0ojsuen0pnwdd Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.