Systems Support Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> Support <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Support Administrator - Oracle Windsor Mill, MD Work Experience Systems Support Administrator Oracle - Columbia, MD March 2019 to Present • Responsible on troubleshooting on troubleshooting different products, such as kiosk terminals, two-way interface with channel managers, WebHotel, OEDS/OWS, using tools to troubleshoot such as SoapUI and GSIM.  • Frequently deals with the hotel's central office and management, engineering and other internal teams, as well as third party vendors such as Synxis, Siteminder, web developers, etc Bilingual Technical Support Analyst Oracle - Columbia, MD November 2017 to March 2019 • Review and resolve internal requests as well as external customer requests.  • Provide guidance and real time resolution on a wide range of technical and non-technical customer issues including but not limited to: Product compatibility and configuration, license reconciliation, support entitlements and validation. Invoice and shipping inquiries, electronic support troubleshooting and product availability.  • Resolve open service requests dispatched, implement fixes (i.e. writing SQL scripts, and document the case for escalation), analyze the hardware or software problem and write case notes in the tracking system.  • Escalate cases to other senior Technical Support Engineers and/or Escalation Engineers when the problem is too complex or falls out of specific area of expertise. Windows systems administrator University of Maryland Baltimore County - Baltimore, MD October 2017 to November 2017 • Manage end user accounts, permissions, access rights, and storage allocations in accordance with best practices.  • Answering and document technical queries through a ticket system.  • Manage Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange, server and workstation patching with SCCM.  • Create, change, and delete user accounts per request using Active Directory Users and Computers and PowerShell scripts. Desktop Support Specialist University of Maryland Baltimore County - Baltimore, MD April 2016 to October 2017 • Provide assist to users relating to all aspects of computer support, including software configuration, backup and restore.  • Review and resolve a large number of tickets monthly sent in by users experiencing problems with their computers.  • Setup new computers in various departments of the university using automation tools like Microsoft SSCM to deploy software and configure machines.  • Implement a set of processes to remediate sensitive information like SSNs, credit card data from client workstations.  • Develop documentation around these processes. Work with stakeholders within the division of IT and throughout the campus to refine the procedures to make them more efficient. Database Administrator Chaveran Inc - Bowie, MD June 2012 to June 2013 • Test Database to Ensure Everything Operate Efficiently  • Work Closely with Development Teams with Regards to Database Updates and Design  • Understand the Popular Database Management Software (SQL and PL/SQL). Education Bachelors of Science in Information Systems University of Maryland - Baltimore, MD May 2017 Skills System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/n1gsp99hthmiz27f Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.