Buyer Buyer Buyer - General Atomics - Aeronautical Systems Inc Phoenix, AZ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Buyer General Atomics - Aeronautical Systems Inc - Poway, CA August 2018 to Present • Negotiate with over 50 independent suppliers to obtain optimal pricing, terms, and lead times.  • Developed supplier website that centralized company policies for efficient internal and external processes: http://www.ga-asi.com/suppliers  • Perform complex price analysis with supporting documentation within 30 days of released purchase requisitions to ensure compliance with company procedures, policies, and government regulations.  • Analyze engineering drawings of over 200 parts for best supplier selection.  • Compose weekly conference calls with suppliers to help improve overall performance and ensure on-time delivery to avoid critical shortages in production. Supplier Administrator - Procurement Systems Integrity General Atomics - Aeronautical Systems Inc - Poway, CA April 2018 to August 2018 • Managed Closeout process of over 300 contracts for Commercial U.S. Department of Defense.  • Assisted the DCAA in locating specific purchase orders for audit.  • Extracted Cost Incurred and Financial History reports into Excel for reconciliation to close out contracts. Claims Administrator/Operations/Recruiter/Compliance SolSource Logistics - Carlsbad, CA August 2017 to April 2018 • Negotiated prices, verified delivery, approved payments, and maintained necessary records for claims.  • Evaluated purchase orders and invoices to negotiate with buyers, carriers, and vendors to resolve claim issues.  • Managed fleet of 55 truck drivers to ensure all were compliant with Department of Transportation regulations. Buyer Assistant CarMax - Escondido, CA November 2015 to August 2017 • Proposed and implemented more efficient car inspection process, resulting in increase in sales.  • Proposed and developed new business process to help increase sales.  • Received Performance Award for excellent teamwork and driving sales in 2016.  • Aided buyers in analyzing vehicle purchase price to guarantee high profit margin at time of sale. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration in Global Supply Chain Management California State University - San Marcos, CA May 2017 Skills Procurement, Logistics, Problem solving, Time management, Ms office, Strategic planning, Sap, Customer service, Far/dfar, Contract negotiations, Training, Excel, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Office, Microsoft Word, Purchasing, Inventory, Outlook, Data Entry Additional Information SKILLS & INTERESTS  * Skills: Procurement; strategic planning; FAR/DFAR knowledge; contract negotiations; SAP; MS Office;  attention to detail; organization; analysis; sales; logistics; communication; training; supplier relationships; team  oriented; customer service; time management; problem solving, tenacious work ethic; interpersonal; QuickBase  * Interests: Meeting new people; music; traveling; gym; trying new things; soccer; basketball; football