IT Technician IT Technician IT Technician Sault Ste. Marie, MI Accomplished, insightful, and results-driven IT professional with success in a broad range of IT initiatives; notable attention to detail during the planning, designing, and implementation of solutions to meet business objectives. Well-organized individual with a proven ability to create procedures and standards that improve system functionality. Work Experience IT Technician Syscom Business Technologies, Inc - Traverse City, MI October 2015 to March 2016 Assisted in managing IT services for more than 40 small to mid-sized businesses by monitoring and maintaining components of a computer network environment, including servers, workstations, cell-phones, and networking equipment. Developed working relationships with all levels of client personnel while providing Tier 1, Tier 2, and Tier 3 support.  • Maintained documentation of client IT environments.  • Configured and deployed servers, workstations, and network equipment.  • Monitored client systems and intervened when issues arose.  • Assisted in the design and migration of email systems to Google Apps and Hosted Exchange. Computer Systems Administrator Moeller Aerospace Technology, Inc - Harbor Springs, MI July 2010 to November 2014 Promoted and facilitated the effective integration of technology into the basic mission of the corporation through planning, programming, training, consulting and other support activities. Developed, enhanced, and maintained the corporate application base to provide accurate, transparent, and highly functional access to all information resources.  • Configured and maintained network switches and network diagrams.  • Maintained WSUS and verified all systems were receiving updates.  • Verified system backups through VEEAM; corrected issues and performed test restorations.  • Created data backup retention policies and verified backup images.  • Developed custom applications as requested by management. Education BS in Cloud and Systems Administration Western Governors University - Salt Lake, NM October 2018 to Present Skills .NET (4 years), Data integrity (4 years), deployment (4 years), disaster recovery (5 years), Firewalls (3 years), infrastructure design (5 years), IT infrastructure (Less than 1 year), MS Office (10+ years), MS Visual Studio (6 years), Network administration (4 years), project management (4 years), VMWare (5 years), Help Desk, It Specialist, Desktop Support, Information Technology, Network Support, Computer Repair, Comptia Certifications/Licenses CIW Site Development Associate May 2019 to Present Site Development Associate provides an introduction to tasks, job roles and careers in Web development. Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/plecybnjoagu6a8l Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/4qxkvzj6dudmw48j Proficiency with Microsoft Office: Mail & Calendar (PC) — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate’s proficiency in using Microsoft Office Mail and Calendar tools to manage their workload. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/il9bemmxgca4idi2 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.