VMware\Windows Systems Administrator VMware\Windows <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> VMware\Windows Systems Administrator - Virtual Control LLC Lowell, MA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience VMware\Windows Systems Administrator Virtual Control LLC - Warwick, RI February 2019 to Present • Design & best practice implementation and VM Hardening of VMware Infrastructure environment,  • ESXi 5.1, iSCSI storage, Unisphere, EMC VNX 5200 array firmware upgrade 5.33.008.5.119,  • Dell EqualLogic firmware upgrade 7.1.11, storage group, Added an additional 14TB to Array, storage pool creation,  • LUN provisioning, deployment, implementation, install, configuration and support of vRealize Operations Manager 6.2,  • Rightsized environment reclaimed 92vCPU and 218GB of memory, rebuilt Virtual center 5.1 Build 2669725, re-designed virtual infrastructure network,  • VMware tools, Hardware upgrades, Deployed SRM 5.1, Upgraded to ESXi 6.0u2, Upgraded 6.5 U2C, update manager, SRM 6 EMC RecoverPoint 4.2.1.3, P2V, migration, documentation, team mentoring and knowledge transfer. Increased server performance by 25%.  • VM deployment Runbooks, PowerShell and script creation, resource groups, VNets, Blob, LB, Availability Set, Quotas, Azure Monitor, Advisor, Change Tracking, VM Reserved Instances and VM Blob Diagnostics. Senior Systems Administrator Glotel Incorporated November 2017 to September 2018 • Performed Duties as a System Administrator, Network Administrator as needed  • Supported Microsoft operating systems and policies  • Supported Citrix NetScaler and XenApp-  • Worked with NetBackup on Linux and Windows platforms  • Supported VMware, ESXi with both Windows and LINUX guest Operating Systems  • Worked with RSA, TACACS, and Radius  • Thrived in a fast-paced, deadline-driven environment Senior Systems Administrator Virtual Control LLC November 2016 to October 2017 • Monitored and supported 48 ESXi 4.1 hosts running 800 Virtual machines running on HP Proliant BL460c G6-7.  • Mentored and trained team members. Implemented VMware Center Operations Manager, v Kernel Capacity Manager and App Suite, vSphere 5 Test Environment running on 4 HP ProLiant BL460c G7, VMA assistant and LAM Health Check Reports.  • Migrated MSCS virtual machines with Rd Ms set to physical compatibility mode with zero down time to applications and server.  • Upgraded 48 hosts from ESXi 4.0 to ESXi 4.1 and then to ESXi 5.5, worked closely with application owners to improve performance on servers using VCOPs.  • Spotlight on Windows, RV tools and Power GUI, recovered 20TB of disk space in virtual environment using Power GUI.  • Utilized v Fire to provide feedback on the effectiveness of support services and channels to continually improve the service. Also, to enter and monitor and resolve Incidents, Tasks, Problems and Requests. And to find answers to simple queries or complex problems by searching for articles within the Knowledge Bank  • Utilized VMware Sire Recovery Manager (SRM) for disaster recovery. Principal Systems Administrator Liberty Mutual Investments April 2016 to October 2016 • Upgraded vSphere 5.5 to 6.0 including migration existing 5.5 database and to new 6.0 server and exporting SQL agent rollup jobs.  • Working with vSphere systems administration and support including V Motion, HA, DRS, VDS, Affinity rules, V Center, storage migrations, and P2V migrations  • Configuring and deploying VMware ESX on HP Proliant servers and HP Blades  • Install and configure vSphere 5.5 and 6.0  • Setup, Install and configure ESX servers  • Setup and configure HP blade servers  • Setup and configure HA, V Motion, DRS  • Backup Disaster Recovery Management  • Install Windows VM guests and P2V migrations  • Day to Day system administration of VMware, Windows and LINUX Sr. VMware / Wintel Administrator Shire Pharmaceuticals October 2015 to March 2016 • Onsite VMware Administrator and Windows Administrator - Provide Technical support services.  • Planning, managing and Installation VMware ESX 4.0 /5.0 server, Installation and configuration of virtual center database and installation of VMware infrastructure virtual machine.  • Management integrated ESX server, create a new storage space, creation of VMFS data store, Configuration networking for the virtual machines.  • P2V, V2V conversions of Windows 2000, 2003, 2008 and 2012 servers using Enterprise Converter.  • Planning, configuration, maintenance and administration of VMware ESX server, VMware virtual center, V-Motion, Storage Motion, HA and DRS, P2V, V2V and Troubleshooting.  • Configure and manage User, Group, Permission, Role, Resource pool on VMware virtual center.  • Planning, configuration, maintenance and administration of Windows Server Systems.  • Configuration, Management and Troubleshooting on websites (including .NET) running on Microsoft IIS 6.0 and 7.0  • Configuration, management and Troubleshooting Microsoft Physical and Virtual Clusters and LBS  • Plan and manage POA and provide RCA for Critical Issue.  • Hands-on experience on Microsoft debugging tools like Procmon, Ad plus, Poolroom, Windbg and Debug Diag 1.1  • Server Security to include maintaining most current OS MS patches, Symantec Antivirus and OS Hardening.  • Plan and schedule OS upgrades & firmware upgrades.  • Administration and managing VMware server (ESX 4.0 & 5.0) on production level.  • VMware ESX Server installation and Configuration and expertise in V Sphere 4 and 5.  • Management of virtual machines, their resource pools and capacity planning  security hardening and Monitoring of VMS & ESX servers (CPU, Memory, Disk, Network Utilization) for Security Compliance.  • Creation and Deployment of Virtual Machines in datacenter, setup of their VLAN/Port-group.  • Performing Snapshots, Cloning, Migration VM ware convertor, Virtual Infrastructure client.  • Installation/configuration of virtual machines in an Enterprise SAN environment.  • Performing VMware crash/error analysis, Root cause Analysis, Coordinate Post Problem Analysis and Trend Analysis.  • Managing the VM infrastructure (V Motion, DRS, HA, Virtual Center Server, VM Converter).  • Managing Windows 2003/2008 Cluster Servers For file and database, connected via Storage Area Network.  • Health Checkup of all the Production Servers, monitoring alerts on a routine basis.  • Hardening of Servers to ensure proper security measures are implemented.  • Installation & configuration Of HP Blade servers, HP Dl-380, 685 G5, and Network load balancing, and network redundancy.  • Successfully migrated of VMware 4.0 to VMware 5.0.  • Troubleshooting problems pertaining to Windows 2000/2003/2008/2012. VMware / Wintel Administrator Mass Dept of Transportation April 2015 to July 2015 • Creating, Installing, configuring and administer Virtual Machines, installing Guest Operating Systems like Windows and Linux  • Responsible for Microsoft File and Print servers cluster on windows 2012 within VMware environment  • Managing Exchange 2012 servers and troubleshooting issues related to User and group accounts, mail delivery, configuring MX records to enable and disable domain  • Installing, configuring and maintaining the VMWare ESX 5.x / Virtual Center 4.x servers  • Moving the running VM from one host to another using vMotion Technology  • Worked on SAN concepts like switch zoning (soft & hard), LUN masking on SAN Storage devices, LUN creation and Storage Management  • Create a cluster in Virtual Infrastructure and enabling HA and DRS feature  • Plan, implement and configure Fault Tolerance (FT) solutions for business-critical servers. Implement HA  • Configuring ESX 5.x servers to use iSCSI & NAS storage  • Work with taking backup and restore management of the Virtual Machines  • Managed performance monitoring and tuning of Virtual Machines  • Installed open source software like Apache Tomcat  • Creating vSwitches and Port groups for the ESX servers  • Network Configuration on ESX servers which include Bonds & VLANs  • Perform activities like scheduling of backups and system security  • Interact with our clients to resolve their problems in a timely and accurate manner  • Created standard Templates and deployed servers from the Templates.  • Built number of VMs through templates/clones, created templates/clones for future use from ISO Images  • Designed and successfully implemented VMWare ESX servers for server consolidation  • Experience in building VMware virtual machines from OVA/OVF templates and CD/ISO image  • Experience on hot and cold clone process  • Administration of VMWare Virtual Center and virtualization services VMware DRS, VMware HA, vMotion and SVMotion  • Configured hardware iSCSI and NFS storage to VMWare ESXi hosts from vSphere client  • Configured VMWare standard and distributed vSwitch.  • Migrated the virtual machines between the ESXi Hosts using cold migration and VMotion    Environment: vCenter, ESXi 4.0, 4.1, 5.5 vMotion, VSphere, HA, Cloning, Snapshots, vSwitches, Port Groups, Clustering  Capacity planning using vCOPS, veeam. Scripting using PowerShell, VB Script, Power GUI VMWare / Virtualization Engineer NOVARTIS June 2013 to January 2015 • Manages all aspects including the daily operations  • Installs, configures, maintains and manages all aspects of the organization's vSphere Servers, Virtualized Operating Systems, VMware ESX, virtual network & security Systems, View Virtual Desktop Infrastructure, ThinApp Virtualized Application Infrastructure.  • Assists with the management of the organization's Virtualized Network Infrastructure and Storage Area Network (SAN) Systems (EMC).  • Administers security and access rights and monitors processing and user profiles of assigned information systems.  • Installs and modifies network software and hardware as needed.  • Rewires and connects servers, storage, workstations and printers to the network as needed.  • Monitors daily error and security logs of assigned IT Systems and responds appropriately.  • Ensures system integrity of assigned information systems.  • Reports and makes recommendations to the Manager, System Operations.  • Creates, verifies, and maintains system documentation of assigned information systems.  • Manage and maintain corporate-wide network of physical and virtual servers, services, and storage.  • Evaluate infrastructure requirements and make recommendations based on business requirements.  • Configure, test, document, implement, and support infrastructure environments, both on premise and in the cloud.  • Install, configure, and administer VMware and other hypervisor environments.  • Work with the team to provide the highest quality support and deployment services, and to establish appropriate standards, policies and procedures services to meet system reliability, availability, data integrity, security, and business continuity requirements.  • Perform on-call duties, system implementations and upgrades that may occur after normal business hours and on weekends as required to minimize business impact.  • Work with IT management to evaluate projects, establish priorities and communicate timelines to deploy technology solutions.  • Drive clear, fast, open and accurate communications up, down, and across the organization to align project status and expectations.  • Proactively work with internal customers to determine IT requirements for services, establish service levels, standards, and solicit feedback. VMware/Windows Consultant Judge Technical Group January 2013 to May 2013 • Installation and configuration of ESX server.  • Upgrading ESX 4.0 server's to ESX 4.1 U3  • Creating ESX cluster's  • Configuring High Availability (HA), DRS.  • Consolidation of Physical servers.  • Configuration of Vmotion, virtual switch in VC.  • Maintenance of Virtual Center server.  • Providing and maintaining user access in VC.  • Patch management using VMware update manager for ESX server.  • SAN space allocation for ESX servers host.  • Scanning and configuring LUN for ESX server.  • Trouble shooting issues related to ESX host's Updating documentation of complete process. Senior Consultant (Technical Lead) BIOGENIDEC March 2008 to December 2012 • 7x24x365 production environment, managing a global environment  • Administered Windows\VMware ESX 4.0 environment  • Defined and implemented the Biogen Idec standard for server builds with Windows 2008 (OS, disk partition layout, patch management, policy settings, assigning permissions, RAID level  • Providing level-3 support; capacity planning; monitor performance of servers; incident report and change control management  • Responsible for configuring server backup software (Net Backup 7.1)  • Administered MS security patch management software (SCCM)  • Administered Mail (Lotus Notes) Domain Controllers, DNS and WINS servers  • Administered Microsoft cluster server including MS SQL clusters  • Build, configure and deploy VMs and templates. Completed Physical-to-Virtual (P2V), Virtual-to-Virtual (V2V) and Virtual-to-Physical (V2P) migration of Windows 2000, 2003, & 2008, from VMware, and legacy hardware.  • Worked closely with Research, Manufacturing, Application and Project groups  • Provided technical support for global data centers  • Upgraded Windows 2000, 2003 servers to Windows 2008 servers in coordination with application team  • Consolidated legacy hardware to HP Blade Environment (HP C Class)  • Provided technical support for developers, end users and the client technology support group  • Migrated print services from Win2K and Win2K3 servers to Win 2008 servers  • Responsible for managing product related issues with the vendors directly (HP, Microsoft, VMware, AT&T and Avocent) Senior Systems Administrator MCKESSON CORP May 2000 to November 2007 • Responsible for configuration, maintenance and security of Development/QA infrastructure which include Dell, SUN and HP servers  • Build, configure and deploy VMs and templates. Completed Physical-to-Virtual (P2V), Virtual-to-Virtual (V2V) and Virtual-to-Physical (V2P) migration of Windows NT, 2000, 2003, & 2008, servers from VMware, and legacy hardware  • Responsible for development repositories using CVS, MS VSS and Borland Caliber  • Responsible for Backup and Recovery for Development/QA servers using VERITAS backup software. Managing tape rotation on and off site  • Administered MS security patch management software  • Administered DHCP, DNS and WINS servers  • Configured IP KVM switches for remote offices  • Upgraded Windows NT4.0 servers to Windows2000 / 2003 servers in coordination with application team  • Responsible for managing product related issues with the vendors directly (HP, Microsoft, VMware, Dell, Symantec, Citrix, Red hat)  • Provided technical support for all developers, end users and the client technology support group  • Administered a large collection of Linux and Windows based servers within the QA/DEV environment (200+ servers)  • Led multiple projects for QA/DEV including OS upgrade and security patching  • Administered ESX 2.x and 3.x VI environments  • Highly knowledgeable with remote administration experiences due to remote Data Center facilities and field centers using various vendor solutions  • Wrote documentation for various projects which included architecting, designing, implementing, and troubleshooting  • Helped with administrative scripting for automation purposes  • Administered Citrix environment, maintenance, and load balance configuration. Responsible for Citrix production environment  • Providing level-3 support; capacity planning; monitor performance of servers; incident report and change control management  • Responsible for the daily service requests for the development/QA departments Education BEA Education Services Boston University 2004 to 2005 Rational University 2001 to 2002 New Horizons Computer Learning Centers 1998 Associates Degree in Computer Electronics in education Sylvania Technical Institute Skills Cisco, Citrix, Clustering, Terminal services, Vmware, Sun, File systems, Netapp, Virtualization, Perl, Scripting, Migrations, Altiris, Provisioning, Project manager, Database, R2, Operations management, Operations, SCCM, System Admin, Active Directory, System Administrator, Linux, Red Hat, Linux