System Administrator <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator Georgetown, TX Ability to analyze complex data and convey information in a concise, easy to understand  manner  Creative thinker who effectively communicates new service and product concepts  Conceptualizes customer requirements and translates key business needs into useful  technology solutions  Uses broad-based experience and hands-on expertise to prototype and integrate  innovative technology solutions Work Experience System Administrator Vacek, Kiecke & Colmenero, LLP - Austin, TX 2014 to 2019 Sever maintenance and deployment, including daily backups and exchange support.  Complete lan administration of the internal network.  Desktop maintenance and deployment  Including troubleshooting of desktop user issues, desktop hardware upgrades.  Installing user software and giving support for software that the law firm depends on.  Application deployment to support a the law firm  Windows 10 Migration  Exchange Migration  Training of staff to use and do basic troubleshooting of equipment to reduce IT costs. System Administrator Mitchell & Colmenero, LLP - Austin, TX 2012 to 2014 Sever maintenance and deployment, including daily backups and exchange support.  Complete lan administration of the internal network.  Desktop maintenance and deployment  Including troubleshooting of desktop user issues, desktop hardware upgrades.  Installing user software and giving support for software that the law firm depends on.  Application deployment to support a the law firm  Windows 7 Migration  Exchange Migration  Training of staff to use and do basic troubleshooting of equipment to reduce IT costs.    1 NOC Administrator NCSoft - Austin, TX 2008 to 2011 This position was in a 24x7 NOC environment to support the infrastructure of NCSoft's  global computer infrastructure.  Altiris imaging and image deployment.  Server maintenance and deployment in large multi data-center environment  Basic lan\Wan administration and troubleshooting before escalating to in house network  engineers  Custom software maintenance and troubleshooting  Network and software troubleshooting of large in house game network  Quick on the fly thinking to solve a variety of software and hardware problems related to NCSoft's extensive game and software library.  Basic Linux administration including editing of config files via VI and executing  commands and functions via the command line.  Leading the datacenter teams and weekend NOC shift in duties releating the smoothing  running and maintenance of the server farms. System Administrator Mitchell & Colmenero, LLP - Austin, TX 2002 to 2008 Sever maintenance and deployment.  Desktop maintenance and deployment  Application deployment to support a growing law firm Systems Engineer Motorola - Austin, TX 1998 to 2002 for Motorola University    Server deployment in Austin, Texas and Phoenix, Arizona  Testing e-learning software and hardware for company wide deployment  Support of seven computer labs, thirty users, and twelve servers  Training/management of junior administrators  Desktop and Server support for Motorola in a mixed UNIX, Windows, Macintosh  environment  Training and mentoring of junior members of MU IT staff. Network Administrator Schlotzsky's Inc - Austin, TX 1996 to 1998 Purchase, daily upkeep, and operation of computer systems  Implemented first high-speed internet connection for Schlotzsky's, Education High school or equivalent Skills Active directory, Dns, Nas, Tcp/ip, Wmi, Raid, Dhcp, Tcp, Snmp, Vmware, System Administrator, System Admin Additional Information ? Skills    Configuration and support of Windows server and desktop environments, OpenNMS to  monitor SNMP and WMI, use of SiteScope to actively monitor internal and external  network connections to servers, websites and databases, TCP/IP protocols, DHCP,  DNS, Routing, Desktop, laptop, and server hardware skills, Raid and NAS systems,  Powershell, Active Directory