IT Manager - Infrastructure IT Manager - Infrastructure IT Manager - Infrastructure - Concorde Career Colleges, Inc Mission, KS Infrastructure Manager with over 18 years of experience in Information Technology looking for a position that uses my broad knowledge of IT infrastructure, along with my excellent technical, troubleshooting and managerial skills. Work Experience IT Manager - Infrastructure Concorde Career Colleges, Inc September 2014 to Present Started at Concorde as a Systems Administrator II and after 2 years was promoted to Infrastructure & Support Manager where I managed 6 employees. Currently responsible for maintaining a reliable IT infrastructure and supervising a team of 2 system administrators.  Accomplishments include:  • Deployment of AT&T MPLS network that increased campus uptime to nearly 99.999 percent.  • Installed and deployed new Dell R540 VMware hosts to 17 campuses.  • Renegotiated Microsoft agreement and acquired almost $100,000.00 in additional services with no additional cost to the company.  • Currently working with data center hosting company to increase capabilities while remaining within contracted rates.  • Currently deploying Cisco Meraki SD-Wan across entire network to improve reliability and traffic management. Senior Systems Administrator Spencer Reed Group, LLC January 2001 to August 2014 Performed systems administration, network administration and end user support to 200+ users in 20 locations across the nation. Responsible for all server, network, storage, backup, intranet, virtualization and unified communications.  Accomplishments include:  • Successfully deploying Cisco VOIP system.  • Planned and executed datacenter move.  • Implemented Windows 7/Office 365 migration  • Implemented plan to virtualize over 75% of physical servers into VMware environment.  Daily activities include:  • Microsoft Windows Server 2008 R2, 2012, 2016 monitoring and maintenance  • Microsoft Active Directory and Group Policy configuration including maintenance of Organizational Units and Group Policy Objects.  • Microsoft Exchange and Microsoft Office 365 new user set up and maintenance  • Configuration and maintenance of DNS, DHCP and MDT.  • Monitoring and maintenance of VMWare environment including 17 ESXi hosts.  • Network Administration and troubleshooting of an AT&T MPLS network with 18 remote locations  • Maintenance of ESI Phone PBX, and Digium VOIP switchvox server.  • Manage vendor relationships  • Collaborate with users and department heads to satisfactorily fulfill needs.  • Train staff on proper policies and procedures  • Create documentation of solutions to provide consistent communications with the end user.  • End user support of laptops, desktops, phones, printers and copiers Education Bachelor of Arts in Journalism in Journalism/Advertising University of Kansas - Bachelor, Kansas, US Skills Active directory, Cisco, Dhcp, Router, Vmware, Dns, Exchange, Iis, Security, Sharepoint, Voip, Equallogic, Iscsi, Microsoft sharepoint, Sql, Microsoft windows, Acrobat, Adobe acrobat, Microsoft exchange, Microsoft office, Citrix, Excel, Customer Service, IT Management, Network Administration, Vendor Management Additional Information Other Special Skills  • Cisco VOIP, ASA, Router, Switch  • Cisco ASDM  • Cisco Meraki Switches, Access Points, Cameras, SD-Wan  • Cisco Meraki Management Interface  • Cisco Unified Communications Manager  • Cisco Unity  • Microsoft Windows Server  • Microsoft Exchange  • Microsoft Office 365  • Microsoft Azure  • Microsoft Active Directory, Group Policy, DNS, DHCP, IIS, WSUS  • Microsoft MDT  • Microsoft SharePoint  • Microsoft SQL  • VMware vSphere ESXi and vCenter  • Barracuda Web Filter  • WatchGuard Firebox System Manager  • Vipre Endpoint Security  • Dell EqualLogic iSCSI SANs  • Dell iDRAC  • ESI Digital Phone PBX  • Digium VOIP Switchvox  • Quest KACE K1000 Appliance  • HelpSpot Ticket Management  • Toshiba/Ricoh Copier Management  • Adobe Acrobat