Information Technology Manager Information Technology Manager Information Technology Manager - SIEA - Sony Santa Monica Studios Los Angeles, CA A motivated and industrious IT professional with over 10 year's proven success for strategizing, optimizing and implementing technical solutions in a highly demanding multi-platform production environment. History developing and directing highly successful projects and cross-functional IT teams to ensure the completion of all timelines, milestones, and deliverables. Work Experience Information Technology Manager SIEA - Sony Santa Monica Studios - Playa Vista, CA April 2013 to Present ?Led operational and technology success by concentrating on IT best practices and governance, network and application support, storage management, solutions development, virtualization technology adoption, remote computing systems management, technology due diligence and build vs. buy decisions.  ? Responsible for technology vendor relationships, contract negotiations, and technology standardization.  ? Directed and oversaw a team of 24x7 helpdesk professionals and system engineers responsible for providing client side support as well as maintaining and developing mission critical backend infrastructure.  ? Managed all planning, budgeting, and forecasting for both the IT and product development teams.  ? Facilitated the roll out of a new service desk solution which increased responsiveness and adherence to SLA terms, and created a 40% boost in efficiency.  ? Responsible for the onboarding, training, development, mentoring, and evaluation of the IT staff.  ? Implemented Sony wide enterprise security initiatives to ensure all vulnerability patching, intrusion and data protection policies were enforced and up to date. Contributed to SIE reaching target patching success faster than any other Sony business unit.  ? Architected a new data retention archive solution which provided a cost savings of $74,000 dollars annually. Systems Administrator SCEA - Sony Santa Monica Studios - Santa Monica, CA March 2011 to April 2013 ? Served as the escalation point for troubleshooting advanced network and systems issues; consistently earned 100% issue-resolution scores by providing excellent service to internal and external customers.  ? Led the role in the planning, deployment and management of the re-designed build farm architecture. The highly scalable solution is now an integral part in the build pipeline, which has increased performance by over 80%  ? Attained the role of site Linux Administrator which included the deployment, configuration and troubleshooting of all Linux servers on the local domain. Software and services consisted of: Perforce, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Tableau, Apache, Tomcat, Puppet, Ceph, Subversion, and Jenkins.  ? Responsible for building, troubleshooting, and patching a mix of over 600 Linux and Windows servers while maintaining 99% uptime.  ? Administered enterprise class storage systems and optimized storage efficiency to provide a 30% increase in capacity and improve performance. Researched various solutions to match the appropriate storage appliance for each given use.  ? Managed, configured and built all VMware and Citrix Xen VM environments.  ? Increased team productivity and automated repetitive tasks via PowerShell scripting and batch files. Helpdesk Associate SCEA - Sony Santa Monica Studios - Santa Monica, CA June 2007 to March 2011 ? Planned, implemented, and supported the entire infrastructure for two incubation teams with over 50 end users. This included the design of a 2003 Active Directory Domain, VPN and Backup Solution, VLAN configuration, A/V solution, software and hardware procurement, development hardware needs, as well as a full understanding of the project's development cycle to ensure IT infrastructure met future growth needs.  ? Attained the role of Storage Administrator for the Santa Monica Studios. Duties included, Netapp upgrades, space management, volume and aggregate creation, performance analysis, archive and DR solutions, as well as managing CIFS and NFS shares and the appropriate permissions.  ? Developed a new process to archive all critical game development data at the end of the production cycle. These assets were logically structured and backed up to an archive server. Additionally, an internally hosted web page was created to easily reference the assets for future use.  ? Provided first level technical support for IT infrastructure supporting the internal, external, and international development teams. Troubleshooting hardware, software, and connectivity issues for a mix of Unix and Windows environments.  ? Responsible for building, configuring and the deployment of new hire workstations, as well as desktop image creation.  ? Implemented a studio wide hardware upgrade from the PS2 to PS3 platform. This included the reclamation, catalog, and return of all EOL hardware, as well as the distribution of the next generation development consoles. Skills Deployment, Infrastructure design, Strategic planning, Process improvement, Budget, Relationship management, Operational support, IT Management Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/travissher Additional Information Core Competencies    ? Project Management  ? Infrastructure Design / Deployment  ? Leadership / Staff Development  ? Strategic Planning  ? Vendor & Business Relationship Management  ? Budget Planning and Analysis  ? Process Improvement  ? IT Operational Support