Lead Systems Administrator Lead <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Lead Systems Administrator - Alamance-Burlington School System Whitsett, NC Lead Systems Administrator with 14+ years experience in information technology. Skilled in  Windows server management, VMware, Project Management, and a working knowledge of Linux  systems. Work Experience Lead Systems Administrator Alamance-Burlington School System February 2019 to Present Managed the sysadmin group who were responsible for account provisioning and data integration.  Served as technical coordinator for instructional applications such as I-Station, Clever, Canvas, and Class Link. Provided technical support for the district's server infrastructure, and worked closely with the network group to maintain optimal technical infrastructure operation. Duties also included using  Google Administrator Console to manage Google Chromebooks and G Suite applications across the  district, as well as to manage the district's email system. Also used VMware to manage each zone's  domain controller and testing servers. Working knowledge of Amazon AWS, such as spinning up  servers and creating storage buckets in S3. Servers in AWS included an external DNS server, a Data  Warehouse server for student and staff information, as well as our helpdesk ticketing server. Would also monitor monthly cost usage of AWS. A working knowledge of Citrix systems, such virtualization and  application delivery. Systems Administrator II (Colleague) Guilford Technical Community College September 2014 to February 2019 Provided technical support for the college's Unix based ERP system, Colleague. Performed weekly  maintenance on the system's Unix backend such as data purges, data cleanup of corrupted files, and reindexing. Setup Colleague's UI on separate Windows servers using API calls back to the Unix  database through SA Valet. Created Colleague user accounts and provided security access based on job  duties. Other duties include Project Management for the college's Print Management system, Pharos.  Responsible for designing and rollout of Xerox printing across multiple campus sites. Created sub  teams for the printer project such as training teams, Xerox configuration teams, and printer rollout  teams. Maintained project scope and schedule. Also tasked with spinning up domain controllers as well as decommissioning domain controllers. Configured DHCP and DNS across multiple subnets.  Monitored DHCP reservations. Created new hosts in DNS for web applications. Assisted networking with the setup and maintenance of wireless access points, as well as performed troubleshooting of ports  on switches using CISCO commands. Maintained the college's virtual server infrastructure using  VMware and Sphere, as well as monitoring UCS chassis health using UCS manager. Spun up  Windows and Linux servers using Sphere. Performed snapshots before any upgrade to VMS, and used  Veeam to backup and restore virtual machines. Monitored any issues with vCenters through management of alarms, and error checking. Created new ESXi servers and installed them in remote  data centers. Made sure hosts were fully functional and correct VMware licenses applied. Managed  staff and student accounts through Microsoft Active Directory. Assigned security access through AD  groups and pushed out group policy according to AD organizational units. Group policy management  included security rights to applications and folders on the file server, as well as pushing out assigned  printers and MFD's according to location. Used Exchange Admin to manage Office365 email.  Responsible for making sure created users in AD sync over to Exchange, and also maintained  Exchange user groups. Monitored quarantined users as well as controlling SPAM email by using  Exchange tools to pull SPAM email out of company inboxes. Software Specialist Piedmont Community Services August 2005 to September 2014 Tasked to support the electronic health record through database and object oriented programming.  Performed regular maintenance on the ehr's database through indexing and purging of old data.  Programmed additional modules to expand the application's functionality. Trained case managers on the use of electronic health records. Assisted the I.T. director to carry out technical policy based on  HIPPA standards, including setting up secured email and other forms of secure communication. Setup a partnership with a local college in which the college provided the agency with gently used computers.  Helped to save the agency over $100,000 in technology costs. Also tasked to provide general hardware  and software tech support for all employees of the agency. Assisted networking with migrating the agency's user network system from Netware to Microsoft Active Directory. Education Bachelor of Applied Science in Computer Information Systems Averett University 2004 to 2005 Associate Degree in Fitness Technology Patrick Henry Community College 1996 to 1999