Manager of Enterprise Infrastructure Manager of Enterprise Infrastructure Manager of Enterprise Infrastructure Pittsburgh, PA Work Experience Manager of Enterprise Infrastructure GENERAL NUTRITION CORPORATION, INC - Pittsburgh, PA 2013 to 2018 Led 10 direct reports covering multiple functional areas. Oversaw day-to-day operations and management including 300+ systems (virtual and physical), SQL and Oracle databases, enterprise  storage, virtual infrastructure, e-mail, firewall, and remote VPN access.  • Communicated effectively and built relationships with all departments, facilitating successful  project implementations and support.  • Participated in corporate IT initiatives as project manager / owner, strictly adhering to adopted  company project standards.  • Developed and maintained yearly corporate IT budget for supported hardware, software, and support services, advising director of budget performance, and informing of special  circumstances or concerns.  • Recommended, endorsed, and managed implementation of technology solutions that  contributed to overall success of operational and sales goals.  • Designed, planned and managed disaster recovery initiatives for key infrastructure systems, ensuring tests were successful.  • Upgraded corporate and divisional office Wi-Fi environment with minimal impact on users, including replacement of 55+ wireless access points and associated intrusion devices. Systems Administrator / Supervisor Midrange Systems 2000 to 2013 Oversaw all corporate system operations and management, including 200+ systems, e-mail, enterprise backups, firewall, and company VPN. Supervised 6 team members responsible for  supporting 24x7 operating environment.    GENERAL NUTRITION CORPORATION, INC. )  • Replaced backup infrastructure from individual system to networked infrastructure, allowing for centralized management of backup and restore processes.  • Reduced overall data center footprint, power consumption, and cooling requirements by successful virtualization of 98% of physical infrastructure.  • Installed multiple SAN storage systems, providing the ability to expand system resource  requirements on-demand.  • Merged system software and hardware groups into 1 unified group, allowing for better  communication, collaboration, and development. Education Bachelor of Science in (BS), Management Information Systems Robert Morris University Associate of Science in Business ICM School of Business - Pittsburgh, PA Skills Cisco asa, Siem, Splunk, Vpn, Cisco, Citrix, Vmware, Netbackup, Veritas, Nas, Solarwinds, Tango, Emc centera, Centera, Hp eva, Eva, Lawson, Smartstream, Security, Kronos Links https://linkedin.com/in/bradmward Additional Information Technical Skills    Platforms: Windows Server 2000, 2003, 2008, 2012, 2016, VMware, Citrix,  SonicWALL VPN  Applications: Microsoft Office Suite (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Project), Verian -  ProcureIT, Infor - Lawson HCM, SmartStream, Kronos - Timekeeper, GT  Software - Neo Suite (NeoBatch, NeoKicks, NeoData, NetCOBOL), Tango  Analytics - Lease Managment  Tools: Splunk - Security Information and Event Management (SIEM), Solarwinds  Network Performance Monitor (NPM), Veritas NetBackup  Systems: HP c7000 BladeSystem  Storage (CAS / NAS): HP EVA 3000, 4400, HPE 3PAR and EMC Centera (CAS)  Network: Cisco ASA VPN Appliance, Meraki MX WiFi