Windows Systems Team Lead Windows <span class="hl">Systems</span> Team Lead Windows Systems Team Lead - IBM Decatur, AL Work Experience Windows Systems Team Lead IBM - Huntsville, AL February 2017 to Present Administration of Windows Applications for LOGSA contract and Windows Systems Team  Lead. Direction of Jr. level Windows Admin and tickets. Primary role of STIG and IAVA  compliance in Windows environment. Windows related incident tickets, work orders, and change  requests. Application stages of VM build process and maintenance of Master VMs. ACAS  scanning and reporting. Shavlik patching and server administration. Primary PoC for ASTS  physical inventory system. Windows Systems Administrator IBM - Huntsville, AL January 2015 to January 2017 Administration of LOGSA datacenter Windows environment including 400 physical and virtual  Windows 2008 and 2012 servers and 150 Windows virtual machines. Primary role of STIG and IAVA compliance and reporting to LOGSA Information Assurance group. ACAS scanning and  reporting. Active Directory administration. VMware administration. WSUS and Shavlik  patching. Systems Administrator III, Bowhead UIC Corp - Huntsville, AL November 2012 to December 2014 Server and systems administration for the U.S. Army Corp of Engineers (USACE) and Engineering Research and Development Center (ERDC). Primary support for Seapine TestTrack  test and development environment. Project lead on physical to virtual datacenter consolidation  and administration of ERDC datacenter. VM server administration. Local IT support of Huntsville Bowhead office. Systems Administrator II Future Research Corp - Huntsville, AL March 2010 to November 2012 Administration of Windows server environment as a contractor for AMCOM G6 CIO  office supporting the Engineering Data Management System (EDMS) for the Army ITSS  contract located on Redstone Arsenal. Providing various support duties including daily server  administration, WSUS system updates, antivirus, HIPS, UPS power systems, tape backups and offsite tape rotation, Retina security scanning and reporting, CON processing, and IAVA bulletin  management and reporting. Tier 3 support for EDIS application helpdesk issues. Systems Administrator, ADS Huntsville, AL August 2008 to March 2010 Senior  administration of Windows server environment and business systems for Huntsville facility and field offices. Administration of network infrastructure including Cisco switches, VPN, and  wireless devices. Level 3 support of helpdesk requests and escalated issues by Junior staff.  Active Directory, DHCP, DNS, WINS design and administration. Daily operations management of IS Junior staff. Project support for network integration during corporate acquisition. IS Specialist Toyota Motor Manufacturing - Huntsville, AL December 2006 to August 2008 Information Systems lead for Toyota's Huntsville facility and liaison to Toyota's corporate  headquarters in Erlanger, KY. Responsible for budget oversight (annual planning and monthly  actual reporting), project management for Huntsville facility, supervision of two contractors, training, inventory and asset management, supervision and compliance for outside vendors and  contractors, managing helpdesk tickets and change control process. IT Analyst/Site Administrator Eaton Hydraulics - Decatur, AL November 2001 to December 2006 Managing IT operations for Eaton's hydraulics manufacturing facility, including  administration of NT/2000 LAN consisting of seven servers and ninety workstations, minimal  administration of one Unix server, management of PBX phone  system, design and maintenance of company Intranet, management of contractors, software and hardware maintenance contracts, IT budgeting and project management, Cisco network devices,  audio/visual equipment, hardware and software support, purchasing of IT equipment, asset management, and data backup. Management of facility  security/access control system with proximity badge access. Served as support analyst on divisional helpdesk system. Promoted to divisional Process Improvement team in 2005. Project  manager for site infrastructure projects. Network Engineer U.S. Space & Rocket Center - Huntsville, AL March 2001 to November 2001 Administration of NT/2000 LAN/WAN consisting of ten servers and two hundred  workstations, including mail and proxy servers. Supervision of tech support and development  staff. Responsible for specifications and purchasing of hardware and software. Installation and configuration of terminal server and thin clients for remote access. Training of company users. Network Administrator Trico Steel Company - Decatur, AL September 2000 to March 2001 Administration of NT/2000 LAN/WAN consisting of ten servers and one hundred fifty  workstations, including one proxy and two mail servers. Planning and coordinating projects with IT staff and plant personnel. Daily supervision of staff programmer and hardware technician.  Administration of two Citrix terminal servers and thin clients. Design of company website and Intranet. Backup and storage of data. Department budgeting with IT director. Hired as a  contractor after plant closing during transition period. Network Administrator City of Decatur/Decatur City Schools November 1998 to September 2000 Administration of NT LAN consisting of five servers and one hundred  workstations, including a proxy and mail server. Configuration of workstations for terminal  emulation to AS/400. Advised Mayor and department directors on technology projects and IT  budgeting. Supervised purchasing of hardware and software, daily support of workstations and servers, and backup of data. Coordinated projects with software vendors and technical  contractors. Served as Webmaster for two websites. IT Technician Alabama Farmers Cooperative - Decatur, AL June 1996 to November 1998 Responsible for administration of all workstations on a mixed  Windows/Novell network. Also responsible for all third party software applications as well as integrating in-house database software. Served as administrator for two Citrix terminal servers and thin clients at remote locations. Designed and maintained three company websites, serving  as Webmaster. Education M.B.A. in Computer Information Systems University of North Alabama - Florence, AL July 2006 Bachelor of Science degree in Psychology University of North Alabama - Florence, AL June 1995 Skills Active directory, Citrix, Systems administration, Vm, Database administration, Database, Sql, Access control, Netbackup, Symantec, Deployment, Scanner, Inventory, Control systems, Windows update Additional Information Special Skills    Windows 2008-2012 server and Active Directory administration.  Group Policy administration.  Intermediate knowledge of SQL database administration.  Enterprise messaging systems administration.  Citrix administration.  Backup administration - Symantec Backupexec and Netbackup.  Access control systems.  VM ware administration. Vsphere 5x.  Windows Update Administration (WSUS).  Seapine TestTrack.  Shavlik Protect Scanner and Patch Deployment.  ACAS SecurityCenter Vulnerability Scanner.  ASTS Inventory