Sr. Systems administrator Sr. <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span> Orlando, FL Work Experience Sr. Systems administrator Valencia College March 2016 to Present March 2016 - Present  • Windows server 2008R2/2012R2/2016 administration physical and virtual. Microsoft Azure systems administration and configuration to support organizational D.R. and other projects as needed. DHCP administration and scope configuration for college systems and wireless. Supported an organization with over 4000 users spread amongst various locations. Manage windows internal DNS records for various applications and name resolution of client systems. Hyper-V and VMWare virtual server configuration and administration. Management of 2008 and 2016 Windows Hyper-V environment for DMZ servers. Vulnerability scanning and remediation on Windows servers, virtual and physical. Print server configuration and management to support centralized printing. Assisted with training of end users for O365. Performs adds, moves, and changes for active directory.   Managing a team of 4 to support the faculty, staff, and students in a fashion to suite the business needs of the institution.  • Administer Skype for Business and Lync 2013 server for the organization. Ensure physical and soft phone (Skype desktop/mobile) clients work as expected for telephone and messaging.  • Exchange 2010/2013/O365 administration for staff, faculty, and students. Created scripts to automate administrative tasks for bulk and individual changes as needed for users and mailbox. Powershell administration for Exchange online, Azure, Exchange 2010/2013, Skype, Active directory, and SharePoint.  • Barracuda spam gateway administration to support email hygiene for the organization.  • PureCloud call center support and administration for Enrollment, Continuing Education, Atlas Help desk, and OIT service desk.  • AudioCodes phone administration to support classroom and security phones. This includes working with security to verify 911 ability for the classroom and security area phones. Management of Audiocodes SIP trunk and Fax line devices.  • Microsoft PowerShell systems administration and automation for several services we provide within the organization, O365, and Azure. Global address book creation and user separation using powershell scripts within O365. Manage over 400k accounts in Azure AD. Created virtual servers in Azure and VMWare environments to support business initiatives and enterprise scaling. Scripting to perform administrative tasks on servers and to operate as process notifications. Scripts from spam blocking/removal to skype for business and exit employee account out processing. Create storage networks, virtual networks. O365 group and user administration via powershell and web interface. Creating of resource groups within Azure along with permissions.  • Works closely with team members and management to support the organization. Providing support to Linux/Unix systems administrators as needed. Support OIT projects to ensure success of needed College plans and expansion to future capacity. Utilizing LogRhythm and Rapid7 for security analysis.  • Lead VOIP consolidation/migration utilizing AudioCodes Mediant 4000 devices for SIP traffic. Configure AudioCodes Mediant 1, 3, 4, and MP124 devices. CLINICAL EXTERNSHIP Keiser University - Lakeland, FL August 2015 to October 2015 • Tissue Grossing - including tissue and organ dissection using a cryostat.  • Processing - including loading and unloading of cassettes and pertinent reagents onto the various tissue processors and optimization of cassette scheduling for greater efficiency and in accordance with each instrument (and laboratory) protocols.  • Embedding - including (proper) tissue orientation; cell block preparations using automated microtomes and cryostats. In addition, learned each laboratory's methods for specimen accessioning (both manual and Labotatory Information Systems), re-cut processing, and Immunohistochemistry (IHC) add-ons.  • Staining and Cover Slipping - assisted with stain replacement and rotations in various instruments, including the Leica automated stainer, as well as the Leica/Ventana IHC instruments. In addition, operated the Ventana Tissue-Tek automated cover slipper. Keiser University December 2012 to October 2015 Lead Systems Engineer TANGIBLE SOFTWARE - McLean, VA June 2012 to December 2012 • Support DISA PKI with EMC Storage Area Network (SAN) and Brocade switch configuration and administration. Keep a record of site related SAN and fiber channel switch. Part of this information includes current configuration and proposed changes.  • Reset Brocade 4100 and 5300 devices when needed for reconfiguration and password reset. Secure devices using IPfilters and port related security policies. I also provide support for Corporate HP Storageworks SAN.  • Support storage related support on multiple projects related to DISA PKI and corporate IT. Utilized SSH and WINSCP during testing of bash scripts.  • Writing bash scripts for use with RedHat Linux 4, 5, & 6 systems to manage EMC SAN in test and production environments. These scripts would provision the SAN along with fiber channel switches for new Windows or Linux host systems. VMWare systems were also configured for access to the SAN. Testing of these scripts files were performed on Linux systems.  • Completed Security Plus Certificaton  • Develop, implement and monitor IT security, disaster recovery and business continuity plans to provide maximum network availability across the company.  • Manage and control protection of the company's data assets. Ensure that reliable backup and archive procedures are being performed.  • Recommendations regarding IT policy and procedures.  • Support existing applications and develop new technical solutions.  • Maintain current and accurate inventory of technology hardware, software and resources.  • Ensure timely technical and Admin support, troubleshooting, problem solving of all technical issues for all locations and corporate office regarding all IT equipment.  • Remain current in the utilization of technology by attending training sessions, seminars and workshops.  • Ensure timely installation of all IT equipment at new locations and ensure they are working properly.  • Other duties as assigned Systems Engineer CDI CORPORATION - Washington, DC May 2009 to April 2012 • Provided support to the Arlington County Government's Network systems. The email system is mixed coexistence of exchange 2003, exchange 2010, and Microsoft Office 365 with database availability groups. POP3/ Imap configuration and setup to exchange server.  • Configure Storage Area Networks (SAN) including EMC CX300, AX4, and CX700 devices. I configured and deployed CISCO MDS9134 SAN Fiber Channel Switches to support the new VMWare shared storage environment.  • Evaluated Cloud service offerings from both Google and Microsoft for possible migration off premise. The evaluated criteria based on functionality, scalability, overall interoperability with current applications being used to include day to day work process usability. Planned 2003 to 2008 Active Directory Migration and documented steps needed to complete the project. I am very active as the onsite engineer performing our Microsoft Office365 migrations for Arlington County department consisting of over 7000 mailboxes and resources. The email system is in a coexistence configuration consisting of exchange 2003, 2010, and Microsoft Office 365. Evaluated ProofPoint cloud managed email filter and compliance testing. Provide Microsoft windows server administration. Provide administration of VMWare ESX4 and ESX5 with local and Storage Area Network configurations.  • Active evaluator for mobile device management (MDM) solutions to further secure the county's communication devices. I am an active member of the county security team working closely with the organizations CISSO.  • Develop, implement and monitor IT security, disaster recovery and business continuity plans to provide maximum network availability across the company.  • Manage and control protection of the company's data assets. Ensure that reliable backup and archive procedures are being performed.  • Recommendations regarding IT policy and procedures.  • Support existing applications and develop new technical solutions.  • Collaborate with the training department to plan and execute any required training to employees for new or existing technologies.  • Manage all vendor, hardware and software evaluations.  • Maintain current and accurate inventory of technology hardware, software and resources.  • Ensure timely technical and Admin support, troubleshooting, problem solving of all technical issues for all locations and corporate office regarding all IT equipment.  • Remain current in the utilization of technology by attending training sessions, seminars and workshops.  • Ensure timely installation of all IT equipment at new locations and ensure they are working properly.  • Other duties as assigned Systems Engineer INDUS CORPORATION - McLean, VA June 2008 to April 2009 • Supported INDUS onsite at Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration. Responsibilities include: I provide third level support for the Microsoft Exchange email system consisting of over 6,000 users. I am also in charge of supporting the disaster recovery planning, systems configurations, and operations for the production location and disaster recovery site. Provide validation of SAN configuration and documentation for DR documentation.  • Performed monthly and emergency patching of servers in the field offices, production environment, and disaster recovery locations. Served as lead DR engineer for email systems in the DR site/sites, and for overall FHWA DR systems operations. Organized DR team to facilitate specific functions needed for DR test and actual event. Updated DR plans for production and filed office support of email system supporting several thousand users. Performed extensive analysis of disaster recovery site to plan and execute cleanup efforts. The cleanup efforts included the following: coordinating efforts from different teams to assist in recabling of production, standby systems, and removal / excess of old retiring systems.  • Acted as a co-lead engineer for FHWA to COE email migration in support of a federal initiative to migrate per government mandate. Created documentation for migration processes along with other projects and in support of POA&M.  • Develop, implement and monitor IT security, disaster recovery and business continuity plans to provide maximum network availability across the company.  • Manage and control protection of the company's data assets. Ensure that reliable backup and archive procedures are being performed.  • Recommendations regarding IT policy and procedures.  • Support existing applications and develop new technical solutions.  • Collaborate with the training department to plan and execute any required training to employees for new or existing technologies.  • Maintain current and accurate inventory of technology hardware, software and resources.  • Ensure timely technical and Admin support, troubleshooting, problem solving of all technical issues for all locations and corporate office regarding all IT equipment.  • Remain current in the utilization of technology by attending training sessions, seminars and workshops.  • Ensure timely installation of all IT equipment at new locations and ensure they are working properly.  • Other duties as assigned TOP ECHELON CONTRACTING - Canton, OH January 2008 to May 2008 Systems Enginer  • The current environment consists of Windows 2000/2003 servers running a variety of services including Active Directory, Exchange 2003, DHCP, DNS, Office 2003 and 2007 versions of Outlook. I installed a Cisco PIX Firewall, and Cisco router to provide a more stable and secure environment for our users in a remote office. I created documentation for migration to clustered configuration of exchange server environment. Researched equipment and components needed for clustering of exchange 2003 and possible migration to exchange 2007. Maintenance of the exchange environment including backups of the systems is a main priority for this contract. (client name is: e -Management).  • Along with the Blackberry deployment a new VPN solution utilizing RSA and Citrix Access Gateway were proposed. The VPN solution proposed gives users a secure method to access network resources remotely while not compromising the corporate network. POP3/ Imap configuration and setup to exchange server. Technical Operations Manager FREEWEBS - Silver Spring, MD August 2006 to January 2008 • Organized an office move and setting up of remote offices. With the setup of these offices I organized installations of Internet and voice services to support office communications. I installed a Cisco PIX Firewall and VPN to provide a more stable environment for our users. I researched equipment and engaged in pricing negotiations. The current environment consists of Windows 2000, Windows 2003 servers running a variety of services. Some of these services include Active Directory, Exchange 2003, DHCP, DNS, Office 2003 and 2007 versions of Outlook. Worked with Avaya partner to implement a new IP Office phone system within the office. Handled all computer and facilities related purchasing. I am third level support for computer system issues. I act as leason for contracted work needed within our office with external vendors. POP3/ Imap configuration and setup to exchange server.  • Created requirements documentation with anticipated growth in mind. Provide detailed plans for technical solution proposals and deployment. These processes were performed for installation and configuration of a new Exchange 2003 mailbox server, enterprise level WI-FI with multiple SSIDs and VLAN configuration for security, and addition of a NAS device for backup to disk and alternate storage. I directed and mentored junior staff in account creation, basic systems and network management, software installation, level 1 and 2 troubleshooting of the corporate systems. Created Windows server virtualization services using VMWare desktop and MS virtual server software (pre Hyper-V). Lead IT strategic planning effort to respond to demands of the marketplace and to the company's growth and business objectives and update company's technology roadmap and long-term direction.  • Develop, implement and monitor IT security, disaster recovery and business continuity plans to provide maximum network availability across the company.  • Manage and control protection of the company's data assets. Ensure that reliable backup and archive procedures are being performed.  • Recommendations regarding IT policy and procedures.  • Support existing applications and develop new technical solutions. Manage the team to ensure effective new installation of all IT equipment and ensures all IT equipment is in working order at all existing locations.  • Collaborate with the training department to plan and execute any required training to employees for new or existing technologies.  • Manage all vendor, hardware and software evaluations.  • Maintain current and accurate inventory of technology hardware, software and resources.  • Ensure timely technical and Admin support, troubleshooting, problem solving of all technical issues for all locations and corporate office regarding all IT equipment.  • Remain current in the utilization of technology by attending training sessions, seminars and workshops.  • Ensure timely installation of all IT equipment at new locations and ensure they are working properly.  • Other duties as assigned Data Center Manager ASRC FEDERAL - Greenbelt, MD December 2003 to August 2006 • Managed the messaging and overall systems infrastructure within the organization. Exchange 2000, Black Berry and spam related services are my arena. Mail is accessed by 3000 to 4500 users across the country. Our Black Berry system offers attachment services and global address lookup. Installed a DELL EMC CX500 SAN to support the company databases, file services and email. A network monitoring, vulnerability scanner, virus wall, and bulletin board systems are slated to be installed within the coming year. I created a model outline and documentation for the current Disaster Recovery Plans. I also oversee the support center operations and act as final escalation point for level 3 issues. Ensuring that our support center has the resources needed to support our clients is also a requirement of my job. Putting together capital and expenditure budgets were also required for my position to maintain a stable environment. POP3/ Imap configuration and setup to exchange server.  • All of my projects and tasks required this information in order to have signoff from upper management in order to proceed with the project. Some of the project I initiated includes implementation of a new EMC SAN for Exchange 2000/ 2003 cluster to provide high availability to users locally and remote, implementation of Vendor/Guest network, which provided internet access only. This was a security measure put in place to make sure our corporate systems would not be compromised by a vendor system that carried a virus or spyware. I directed and mentored junior staff in account creation, basic systems and network management, software installation, level 1 and 2 troubleshooting of the corporate systems, empowered them to handle some basic software services administration. Started initiative toward VMWare enterprise implementation. Installed, configured, and maintained Microsoft Exchange servers for enterprise use.  • Develop, implement and monitor IT security, disaster recovery and business continuity plans to provide maximum network availability across the company.  • Manage and control protection of the company's data assets. Ensure that reliable backup and archive procedures are being performed.  • Recommendations regarding IT policy and procedures.  • Support existing applications and develop new technical solutions. Manage the team to ensure effective new store installation of all IT equipment and ensures all IT equipment is in working order at all existing locations.  • Collaborate with the training department to plan and execute any required training to employees for new or existing technologies.  • Manage all vendor, hardware and software evaluations.  • Maintain current and accurate inventory of technology hardware, software and resources.  • Ensure timely technical and Admin support, troubleshooting, problem solving of all technical issues for all locations and corporate office regarding all IT equipment.  • Remain current in the utilization of technology by attending training sessions, seminars and workshops.  • Ensure timely installation of all IT equipment at new locations and ensure they are working properly.  • Other duties as assigned Systems Engineer II Supervisor EASI - Greenbelt, MD January 2002 to December 2003 • Provided second level support to helpdesk staff of four direct report employees which covers a zone of the NASA contact he company has acquired. This position is one that requires patience and the ability to communicate with customers. I also get a chance to help mentor our techs to keep their skills current. This location provides support for three to five thousand users. This location consists mainly of Compaq hardware and utilizing the Windows 2000, NT and XP operating systems. POP3/ Imap configuration and setup to Sendmail server.  • Performed troubleshooting of in-house applications developed specifically for select NASA divisions running on Compaq hardware and using the Windows Operating systems. Assisted in design, installation and configuration of SQL server for database queries for knowledgebase system. Configured database connectivity to manage user upgrade database. Installed / configured Citrix client for connection to N-Fuse server which utilized published applications.  • Keeping SLA requirements is a very important part of the day to day activities. Supporting our clients in the NASA environment has very stringent guidelines, which require tact and diplomacy with all clients. I directed and mentored junior staff in account creation, basic systems and network management, software installation, level 1 and 2 troubleshooting of the corporate systems, empowered them to handle some basic software services administration.  (Laid-off October 19, 2001 - January 2002) Senior Systems Engineer VERESTAR - Fairfax, VA December 1999 to October 2001 • Planned, configured, and deployed terminal server and Citrix Metaframe 1.8 on 2000 server. Served as Project lead for corporate web server configuration on Compaq rack mounted servers. Tested DNS on win 2000 server for future 2000 migration. Setup security for updating website via ftp. Setup separate ftp sites to transfer files with machines not connected to domain. Configured ILS server for internal use of Net Meeting. Installed SMS 2 running SQL 7. Planned deployment strategy for SMS 2.0 in multi-site configuration. Installation and configured for website communication / enterprise application databases. Installed / configured SQL 2000 for internal web and client server applications on windows server operating systems.  • Provided research for all new technologies and solutions proposed to ensure compatibility and functionality within the corporate systems infrastructure. I provided technical and corporate needs analysis to justify purchase of new technology and its significance for being used within the organization. I created requirements documentation with anticipated growth in mind. Provide detailed plans for technical solution proposals and deployment.  • Directed and mentored junior staff in account creation, basic systems and network management, software installation, level 1 and 2 troubleshooting of the corporate systems, empowered them to handle some basic software services administration. Testing of VMWare desktop and server. Installed, configured, and maintained Microsoft Exchange servers for enterprise use. POP3/ Imap configuration and setup to exchange server.  • Develop, implement and monitor IT security, disaster recovery and business continuity plans to provide maximum network availability across the company.  • Manage and control protection of the company's data assets. Ensure that reliable backup and archive procedures are being performed.  • Recommendations regarding IT policy and procedures.  • Support existing applications and develop new technical solutions. Manage the team to ensure effective new site installation of all IT equipment and ensures all IT equipment is in working order at all existing locations.  • Collaborate with the training department to plan and execute any required training to employees for new or existing technologies.  • Manage all vendor, hardware and software evaluations.  • Maintain current and accurate inventory of technology hardware, software and resources.  • Ensure timely technical and Admin support, troubleshooting, problem solving of all technical issues for all locations and corporate office regarding all IT equipment.  • Remain current in the utilization of technology by attending training sessions, seminars and workshops.  • Ensure timely installation of all IT equipment at new locations and ensure they are working properly.  • Other duties as assigned Network Administrator NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF BROADCASTERS - Washington, DC April 1998 to December 1999 • Installed and configured primary & secondary WINS and DHCP servers. Configuring workstations for deployment, (e.g. installing Windows 95, Windows 98, Windows NT 4.0 Workstation). Primary participants in beta testing new software or upgraded versions of software. Including configuring test computers, software, and writing/submitting beta reviewer reports to manufacturers. Provide assistance to users regarding usage problems, instructional questions & hardware/software malfunctions. Assist users with hardware and software problems, including workstations and printers. Provided project management in the deployment new desktops and upgrades. POP3/ Imap configuration and setup to exchange server.  • Proposed a new deployment of windows systems for trade show, which would be more reliable and provide higher availability. This was created after speaking with users that worked from out trade show and finding out the issues they encountered. Management signed off on my proposal and the deployment was a success. Managed Microsoft Exchange environment.  • Develop, implement and monitor IT security, disaster recovery and business continuity plans to provide maximum network availability across the company.  • Manage and control protection of the company's data assets. Ensure that reliable backup and archive procedures are being performed.  • Recommendations regarding IT policy and procedures.  • Support existing applications and develop new technical solutions. Manage the team to ensure effective new store installation of all IT equipment and ensures all IT equipment is in working order at all existing locations.  • Collaborate with the training department to plan and execute any required training to employees for new or existing technologies.  • Manage all vendor, hardware and software evaluations.  • Maintain current and accurate inventory of technology hardware, software and resources.  • Ensure timely technical and Admin support, troubleshooting, problem solving of all technical issues for all locations and corporate office regarding all IT equipment.  • Remain current in the utilization of technology by attending training sessions, seminars and workshops.  • Ensure timely installation of all IT equipment at new locations and ensure they are working properly.  • Other duties as assigned Education Associates of Histology in Science KEISER UNIVERSITY - Orlando, FL Bachelor of Business Administration in Banking and Finance BOWIE STATE UNIVERSITY - Bowie, MD Masters of Informaiton Systems Management in Information Systems Management UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX Skills Azure (3 years), Exchange online (6 years), Skype for Business (2 years), Exchange 2013 (3 years), windows 2012 server (3 years), windows 2016 server (2 years), exchange, Strategic Planning, Vmware Awards Results-driven, accomplished IT professional with more than a decade of technical expertise. Professional with over 17 years of cross-platform experience in leading teams, manage company assets, IT security, system administration, analyzing, designing, installing maintaining, and repairing Server/Network/SAN hardware and software. Sound familiarity with Microsoft Windows server, Brocade, and SAN related systems. Highly analytical and organized with proven success in planning, organizing, and implementing complex solutions with an outstanding record for delivery Certifications/Licenses Lean Six Sigma White Belt July 2019 to Present Lean Six Sigma Professional July 2019 to Present Project Management Essentials July 2019 to Present Change Management Specialist July 2019 to Present Additional Information Results-driven, accomplished IT professional with more than a decade of technical expertise. Professional with over 17 years of cross-platform experience in leading teams, manage company assets, IT security, system administration, analyzing, designing, installing maintaining, and repairing Server/Network/SAN hardware and software. Sound familiarity with Microsoft Windows server, Brocade, and SAN related systems. Highly analytical and organized with proven success in planning, organizing, and implementing complex solutions with an outstanding record for delivery.    ? Planning & Project Management ? Infrastructure Development * CPR 2015, Florida Lab Training Certificate  ? Process Standardization ? Data Center Operations *Supervisor/ Mentor * IT Infrastructure * Vendor management    Clearance Information: Interim Secret