Systems Engineer III <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer III Melrose, MA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Engineer III ROCKET SOFTWARE - Waltham, MA 2017 to 2019 Managed stable operation of mission critical enterprise systems for multiple datacenters and 1.5K+ servers. Responsibilities included planning, implementation, administration, optimization, backup and recovery. Served as the main point of contact for a new O365 SharePoint site regarding security and content structure.  • Oversaw infrastructure migration from onsite building to remote datacenter ensuring data integrity was not compromised  • Migrated and consolidated Active Directory (AD) including new security and GPOs increasing security and manageability  • Expanded backup infrastructure across multiple sites, including servers and storage increasing retention policies and decreasing job times  • Migrated SharePoint from onsite location to O365 resulting in a more user-friendly and secure site Senior Systems Engineer HARBORVEST PARTNERS - Boston, MA 2015 to 2017 Worked on the Engineering side with a focus on projects, design and implementation. Acted as an escalation point for Operations on the day to day support side of the business.  • Researched and deployed a new backup solution (CommVault) across four (4) sites including DR  • Migrated infrastructure to new redundant Cisco UCS environment in datacenter migrating 115+ servers (Production, DEV and QA)  • Provided onsite oversight for infrastructure migration in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Beijing  • Deployed Environmental Monitoring devices to our IDFs across four (4) sites  • Completed Microsoft AD refresh including migration and flattening of domain increasing manageability  • Facilitated Exchange 2010 to Exchange 2016 (on prem) migration Systems Administrator HIGH STREET PARTNERS - Bedford, MA 2013 to 2015 Monitored and managed servers in a multi-site global company, including vSphere and AD infrastructure and SQL databases. Oversaw communications, email, archiving, print, and backup in infrastructure consisting of 175+ servers in a nearly 100% virtual environment.  • Assisted in the implementation of a new DR site with a select production environment in full replication  • Designed and implemented a global, cloud based, web filtering security product  • Monitored network connectivity of datacenters as well as VPN connected corporate offices and remote connectivity for end users  • Assisted with the network design and capacity planning as requested  • Provide escalation and overflow support to end users as well as training where required Design Engineer MINDSHIFT TECHNOLOGIES, INC - Waltham, MA 2011 to 2013 Worked with Sales Teams in a customer facing role to design and plan demos as well as projects for new and existing clients including Network and Active Directory architecture along with server installations or upgrades. Worked with clients based across the US as well as datacenters on the East Coast utilizing SaaS, VaaS, VM and Cloud Computing.  • Acted as a Virtual-CIO to help customer technology work for them and progress forward  • Maintained  • Responsible Technology and Systems Consultant ICORPS TECHNOLOGIES - Boston, MA 2006 to 2010 Performed new and existing client assessments and then produced project plans and SOWs to provide IT solutions for Business Unit initiatives and develop remediation solutions along with documenting network diagrams and provide input to maintain effective procedures and controls.  • Completed full network and DR infrastructure rebuilds and\or VMWare migration resulting in a more robust environment  • Completed Exchange migrations to 2007, 2010 or Hosted Exchange solutions.  • Assisted in the development of annual operational and budgetary plans.  • Perform regularly scheduled maintenance on client infrastructure as well as respond to alerts from our monitoring services. Sr. Systems Administrator FORTIS INVESTMENTS - Boston, MA 2005 to 2006 Responsible for smooth operation of the company's infrastructure including the installation of new servers and the monitoring and management of the server performance in a Windows environment. Established baseline trends of network performance and conducted a needs assessment to identify required hardware and software technology upgrades.  • Installed new software releases, system upgrades, and patches and resolves software related problems while adhering to licensing requirements.  • Charged with establishing, implementing and testing a reliable backup process to ensure company data is secure.  • Designed and implemented a new Network Attached Storage (NAS) device along with new multi tape Autoloader for backup purposes. Education Bachelor of Arts in (BA), General Studies Franklin Pierce University Skills Active directory, Cisco, Vmware, Dns, Exchange, Iis, Networking, Sql, Ms exchange, Operations Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/scott-kroll Additional Information Areas of Expertise    • VMware (vSphere)  • Backup operations  • Networking, DNS  • Cisco UCS  • MS Server 2000 - 2016  • MS Exchange 2003 - 2016  • Project Management  • Active Directory  • SQL, IIS