Senior Systems Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Systems Administrator - Hunter Engineering Company St. Louis, MO • Assuming roles as a technology manager, planner and implementer.  • Making customers more productive and profitable through technology  • Ongoing acquisition of multiple IT certifications and continuing education Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator Hunter Engineering Company November 2017 to Present Acted as a lead infrastructure resource for a technical team managing multiple platforms and sites.  • Performed daily management of Dell/EMC and Tegile SANs, VMware, Cisco UCS and Microsoft environments.  • Planned, rebuilt and deployed an international multi-site vSphere/vCenter environment hardware to support a new  VDI environment; proposed & implemented appropriate SAN solutions for all remote sites.  • Worked with team members to reclaim, document and implement best-practices methodology across the network.  • Provided third-tier escalation support as a resource for development teams, database administrators and security  officers. Server Systems Administrator Bunzl Distribution September 2015 to November 2017 Managed and maintained an enterprise-class, virtualized multi-server environment for North American operations.  • Responsible for all in-house and branch server equipment, both physical and virtualized.  • Managed and executed projects involving research and implementation of new products and solutions  • Performed fail-over tests, upgrades and planned service tasks on systems hosted by Cisco UCS, NetApp, VMware  and Microsoft products, as well as cloud-based services.  • Provided escalation support for hardware and platform issues to other departments and the Client Services team. Project Engineer Acropolis Technology Group May 2012 to September 2015 Designed & implemented multiple network upgrade/advancement projects in varied environments.  • Created project estimates, statements of work, scope definitions and other relevant project documentation.  • Assisted a 3-tiered support center during and after project implementation; documented project environments.  • Performed network assessments of potential, new and existing clients.  • Gained experience working with EMC and EquaLogic SANs, vCenter Server and other enterprise-class products System Administrator St. Charles Community College September 2011 to May 2012 Maintained and managed multiple servers supporting all business-side activity in the organization.  • Managed clustered Hyper-V virtualized environment with Virtual Machine Manager 2008 R2.    (next)  ) •  • Created and documented a virtualized, clustered Exchange 2007/2010 test environment to mirror production  • Gained experience with various backup, security and e-mail archiving solutions. Technical Consultant Plaza Information Technologies April 2006 to September 2011 Directed and managed new and existing client relationships, handled all aspects of client IT needs  • Managed customer needs, including office relocations, platform migrations and 3 rd-party installations.  • Performed deployments of new multi-server environments running Windows Server, Exchange 2003/2007/2010, Windows SharePoint Services and load-balanced Terminal Services, running on VMWare ESX platforms.  • Researched new and emerging technologies, and facilitated their entry into production environments.  • Gained extensive experience with management of BlackBerry Enterprise Server and other mobile platforms. Technical Analyst GoINET, Inc December 2004 to April 2006 Technical Analyst Strategic Technology Group May 2002 to December 2004 Applied large-enterprise experience to IT environments in multiple industries; managed environments in construction, medical, financial and manufacturing sectors.  • Supervised day-to-day management of networks; mapped and documented environments  • Provided tools to meet advanced needs of clients, including remote access, digital faxing, and switch management.  • Created acceptable use policies to reduce corporate exposure.  • Performed disaster recovery of Windows NT, 2000, 2003 and Exchange to maintain mission-critical operations.  • Managed and deployed Windows 2000/2003, Exchange, application and firewall installation/upgrade projects.  • Personal development included focus on environment security; expanded proficiency with managed anti-virus  solutions, spam filtering, OS-hardening, and firewalls. Education Master of Science in IT Management in IT Management and Leadership Western Governors University Graduate Certificate in Project Management in Project Management Missouri State University Bachelor of Science in Communications Bradley University Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, VMWARE, VPN, DNS, DHCP & DFS, EXCHANGE, FIREWALLS, HYPER-V, DISASTER RECOVERY, PKI, SSO, SECURITY, MICROSOFT EXCHANGE Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Systems Expert/Engineer 2000 to Present Windows Server, Exchange Server VMware Certified Professional -- Data Center Virtualization 2016 to Present Microsoft Certified IT Professional (MCITP) Enterprise Administrator: Exchange 2010, Virtualization Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA), Routing & Switching February 2011 to August 2019