Junior Network Administrator Junior Network <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Junior Network Administrator - Nice Pak Products, Inc Greenwood, IN Work Experience Junior Network Administrator Nice Pak Products, Inc - Mooresville, IN August 2017 to Present • Provide and administer 24/7 technical network support for more than 250 network users on any given shift.  • Diagnose, address, and document any technical problems that arise with computer networks and systems.  • Maintain and update actively existing software and hardware used by computer networks and systems.  • Upgrade computer network and systems software and hardware, and assist with Mitel VoIP system cutover.  • Oversee servers, desktop computers, printers, routers, switches, firewalls, phones, security updates, and patches. Systems Administrator Rehab Medical - Indianapolis, IN December 2014 to August 2017 Monitored daily system maintenance; identified software/hardware appropriate for the computer system design.  ? Controlled servers, computers, printers, routers, switches, firewalls, phones, PDAs, security updates, and patches.  ? Verified the integrity of all hardware, server resources, systems and key processes, and completion of scheduled jobs.  ? Evaluated servers, equipment, and processes to ensure that the outputs of these components are of better quality.  ? Enforced security measures through access controls procedures, providing backups, and use of firewalls.  ? Set up a new location with internet phone and connection back to the home office; maintained 350+ overall users. Systems Administrator CSUSA - Indianapolis, IN December 2012 to December 2014 Maintained software such as Cisco Routers/Switches, Lenovo, Apple, Microsoft Suite, and Windows using FOG client.  ? Collaborated with management and corporate office to maintain IT standards throughout the school's entire system.  ? Recorded, tracked, and documented the help desk request problem-solving process through to the final resolution.  ? Installed, configured, and troubleshot the school's hardware and software to prevent system flow disturbances.  ? Preserved Active directory and group policy to ensure internet/computer security; trained new system technicians. Field Technician Unisys - Indianapolis, IN May 2010 to November 2012 Sustained and analyzed the company's computer software and hardware and computer peripherals.  ? Installed, configured, and modified company hardware and software to ensure optimal performance.  ? Utilized the company's ticketing system in recording customer-induced damages to the company's products.  ? Addressed the queries of customers regarding proper product installation, operation, configuration, and customization. Troubleshoot computer software, hardware, and computer peripherals. Warranty Technician Fox Conn - Plainfield, IN October 2009 to April 2010 Updated the replacement and repair of products returned by customers in the company's database system.  ? Inspected and documented all company products detected with internal or external damages.  ? Performed quality assurance tests to make sure that the returned products are fixed based on quality standards.  ? Delivered follow-up and tracking for process improvement accomplishments to ensure consistent developments.  ? Guaranteed timely and accurate payment of all vendors and trade partners for completed warranty work. Student Technician Atterbury Job Corps - Edinburgh, IN September 2006 to May 2008 Assisted the company in programming operating systems for new computer laboratories for over fifty stations.  ? Recorded and troubleshoot company hardware and software issues to prevent future major system conflicts.  ? Installed useful computer software and monitored the computer processing system of the company.  ? Performed basic computer testing procedures to determine the possible need for upgrades and repairs.  ? Operated the company's service point-of-contact help desk, which helped maintain good customer relationships. Education High school or equivalent Skills Active directory, Cisco, Exchange, Network administration, Tcp/ip, Dhcp, Tcp, Telnet, Vmware, Database, Mapping, Ethernet, Security, As400, Database management, Systems security, Excel, Microsoft office, Outlook, Powerpoint Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES  ? Computer Maintenance  ? Network Administration  ? Cost-Benefit Analysis  ? Testing & Troubleshooting    ? Integrated Technologies  ? Reporting and Analysis  ? Data Synchronization  ? Database Management    ? Backup & Recovery  ? Systems Security  ? Operating Systems  ? Resource Allocation    COMPUTER SKILLS  Microsoft Office 365 (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook), Windows 7 & 10, Windows Server 2008, 2012 & 2016, Red Prairie, IBM AS400, Conntwise, Telnet, FOG Client, Windows Vista, Cisco Routers/Switches, Lenovo, Apple products, Active Directory, TCP/IP, DHCP, Ethernet, Wi-Fi, File Share, Drive Mapping, Exchange server/O365, VMWare, PowerShell