Infrastructure Architect Infrastructure Architect La Crescenta, CA An information technology leader with experience in multiple sectors and environments. My strengths are problem-solving, troubleshooting, communication, the ability to complete multiple tasks, and a natural ability to mentor and develop staff. I have managed numerous projects or coordinated system wide changes with multiple teams of various sizes for both long term and short term projects. I have been a change management participant for over a decade with an aversion to unnecessary risk. I am used to working in an Agile workflow with CI/CD tools.    I have worked multiple years in mixed Windows/Linux environments. My current focus is infrastructure as code and infrastructure automation. Software lifecycle management, application containerization, environment auditing, and process automation are drivers in that focus. Proficient in PowerShell, Ruby, bash, vbs, wmi ,wql. Having years of hands on experience maintaining security standards with CIS, PCI, SOX and HIPAA compliance as the driver. Currently a Microsoft Certified System Engineer, (MCSE). Work Experience Infrastructure Architect City National Bank, Downtown - Los Angeles, CA October 2018 to Present Provide upgrade design and build of 3, tier 1’ applications that are End of Life. Work with all stake holders to document and design new Windows Server 2016 environment. Provide backfill support with Redhat 7.5 CIS compliance, build automation, terraform, Chef. Implemented an on-prem Docker POC.     • Architect tier 1 application environment for dual datacenters.  Prod, Dev, Test, DR  • On Prem Docker setup and application microservices support. Participated in IAC for Azure Docker setup.   • Build automation team, implementing CI/CD using Bitbucket, Terraform, Chef, Azure    • RHEL CIS compliance, Chef recipes, Bash, security deployments Qualys, Splunk, Cylance, Bigfix.  • VMware, Redhat template creation and maintenance.  Senior Systems Engineer Western Asset Management - Pasadena, CA August 2016 to September 2018 Part of a 3-person team that provides top tier support to 4 domains and 8 global offices. Providing process automation, process documentation, and project implementation for multiple initiatives. Implemented a company wide patch management program using IBM BigFix.  • Responsible for administration, maintenance, and troubleshooting of over 900 Windows Servers across 6 data centers and for 8 global sites.  • Maintain the Active Directory infrastructure, sites, DNS, DHCP, for 4 domains, and indirectly  supports over 2,000 users.  • Implemented Security initiatives, Patch Management Process - for servers and workstations, LAPS.  • Automated multiple solutions and audit reports using PowerShell.  • Secondary role responsibility for the SCCM service for all global sites. Duties include software deployments, system auditing, OSD Windows10 and Windows7, and licensing.  • Server side primary role responsibility for Public Facing websites.  • Server side primary role responsibility for IBM BigFix, Patch management and reporting.  • Server side responsibility for Tableau  • Server side responsibility for Symantec Messaging Gateway.  • Server side responsibility for Exchange Enterprise Office 365.  • Server side responsibility for VMware ESX 5.5 supporting 580 virtual servers.  • Server side responsibility for VDI Windows 10 and Windows7 image and Desktop Pool management.  • Server side responsibility for PKI infrastructure service.  • Secondary role responsibility for the RDS application infrastructure.  • Supervised and executed several enterprise-wide changes using group policy.  • Support Netbackup and tape management using Iron Mountain offsite  • Utilized NetApp OnCommand System Manger to manage storage on 29 storage clusters.  • Utilized JIRA and Cherwell for ticket tracking, and issue resolution documentation.  • Participate in weekly change control process.  • Participate in monthly department level 24/7 On-call rotation.  • Participate in annual BCP and DR testing. Consulting - Control Specialist - Access Management Charles Schwab - Phoenix, AZ April 2016 to August 2016 Provide infrastructure privileged access governance. Provide scripted controls to ensure privileged roles are created, maintained and reconciled appropriately. Work to reduce and mitigate risk in Schwab's technology environment.  • Using PowerShell and LDAP verify the integrity and adherence to privileged access processes for all infrastructure services.  • Standardization of infrastructure privileged access request process.  • Point of contact for access audit related inquiries  • Create PowerShell controls to provide verification of documented access management process.  • Identify needed infrastructure privileged access control use cases and coordinate implementation when applicable. Senior Systems Administrator YP, - Yellowpages, LLC - Glendale, CA August 2012 to September 2015 Provide top level infrastructure support to 9 windows domains with an arching goal of maintaining both PCI and SOX compliance while automating process whenever possible.  • Responsible for administration, maintenance, and troubleshooting of over 1700 Windows Servers across two data centers with each data center having a protected PCI environment.  • Maintain the Active directory infrastructure on 9 domains and indirectly supports over 9,000 users.  • Primary role responsibility for the SCCM service on 9 windows domains. Duties include coordinating Server patching, system auditing for compliance with PCI, SOX, vendor licensing, server inventory accuracy, as well as software deployments.  • Managed monthly patching process on 6 non-production domains and 3 production domains.  • Server side primary role responsibility for Symantec Endpoint protection service.  • Server side primary role responsibility for PKI infrastructure service.  • Server side secondary role responsibility for SCOM reporting service.  • Server side management for DFS service.  • Rebuild servers for SQL server environment to allow proper logging framework for SOX compliance.  • Supervised and executed several enterprise-wide changes using group policy.  • Managed multiple large scale application deployments using SCCM and Group Policy.  • Building servers physical and virtual using HP Blades, VMware, and HYPER-V. Leveraging Left Hand and NETAPP SAN storage for building server clusters.  • Utilized JIRA for ticket tracking, change management, and issue resolution documentation.  • Helped support a large scale user migration as YP infrastructure divested themselves from AT&T.  • Participate in weekly change control process.  • Participate in monthly department level 24/7 On-call rotation. Senior Systems Administrator Huntington Memorial Hospital - Pasadena, CA May 2010 to August 2012 Brought on as an employee to implement and Manage Symantec Altiris 7, in addition to my former duties listed below. The Altiris system was purchased to ensure HIPAA security standards and implement a strong ITIL process. The modules that I implemented are CMS - Client Management Suite w/ deployment Services, AMS - Asset Management Suite, SD 7 - Service Desk 7. Consulting Senior Systems Administrator Huntington Memorial Hospital - Pasadena, CA October 2001 to May 2010 Report to the IS Leadership for a 525-bed major medical center providing top level infrastructure support and team leadership.  • Maintain the Active directory infrastructure with over 31,000 active directory objects, including supporting for over 8,000 users.  • Implemented multiple server and computer based security configurations for HIPAA compliance.  • Provide enterprise-wide compliance reporting and change statistics using WMI and PowerShell.  • Responsible for administration and troubleshooting of 350 HP/Compaq Windows Servers  • Provide lead support for 3,240 HP/Compaq work stations, mobile devices, and Wyse devices.  • Managed the design and installation of many server and workstation migrations.  • Managed and executed several enterprise-wide changes using group policy.  • Managed Windows OS deployments using various rapid deployment tools.  • Project Manager on multiple large scale application deployments utilizing group policy.  • Supervised the implementation and support of numerous hospital systems, including the Pyxis and Pandora pharmacy systems, the McKesson PAC radiology system, the Dictaphone transcription system, and the Medhost emergency room system.  • Participate in weekly change control process. Assessments Problem Solving — Highly Proficient April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/y6bz5mjmc-lb0uwg Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.