IT Consultant IT Consultant IT Consultant - A Hess Technology Atwater, OH Work Experience IT Consultant A Hess Technology December 2011 to Present IT Consultant  Worked closely with clients to analyze IT system requirements, clients information technology needs and their resources in order to plan IT projects and fulfill clients expectations    • Developed IT system specifications after evaluating customer's nature of work and business volume  • Solved clients IT issues - Determined changes, recommended quality software, projected modifications of the software, hardware, and networking  • Decommission of computers/networks  • Windows 7 migration to windows 10  • Avaya IP Phone Installation  • Deploy, reset, configure and replace equipment as needed, Printer, CPUs and laptops IT Systems Administrator Elgin Fasteners Group - Brecksville, OH November 2017 to March 2018 • Administered and supported Windows servers in a fast-paced, demanding business environment  • Managed large, complex environments with hundreds of servers across multiple datacenters  • Coordinated with other teams to support network hardware such as firewalls, and switches and storage hardware such as SAN, and NAS systems  • Administered VMware virtual machines with support from network engineers.  • Produced, maintained, and improved documentation on various internal processes, OS standards, and refresh cycle schedules.  • Windows migration from windows 7 to windows 10  • Document and track issues via a ticketing system.  • Participated in 24x7x365 on-call rotation. IT Systems Administrator GO2 Advertising - Twinsburg, OH April 2016 to November 2017 Provide systems administration support for Windows and Macintosh systems including server and workstation upgrades, backup and disaster-recovery monitoring, user-account setup and security administration.    Administered and supported Windows servers in a fast-paced, demanding business environment  • Managed large, complex environments with hundreds of servers across multiple data centers coordinated with other teams to support network hardware such as firewalls, and switches and storage hardware such as SAN, and NAS systems  • Administered VMware virtual machines with support from network engineers  • Obtained MCSA certification via self-study, better-supporting server environment.  • Produced, maintained, and improved documentation on various internal processes, OS standards, and refresh cycle schedules.  • Windows migration from windows 7 to windows 10  • Document and track issues via a ticketing system.  • Maintain the company anti-virus server (Symantec) and deploy patches  • Participated in 24x7x365 on-call rotation. Assistant System Administrator Streetsboro City Schools - Streetsboro, OH 2000 to 2016 The Streetsboro City Schools has 2,200 students enrolled in grades Preschool through Grade 12 in 2016. Approximately 160 employees served on the teaching staff and 130 classified staff employed. The district included five school buildings and supporting service sites.    • Provided hands-on and remote technical support for both staff and students    • Coordinated with other teams to support network hardware such as firewalls, and switches and storage hardware such as SAN, and NAS systems  • Administered VMware virtual machines.  • Produced, maintained, and improved documentation on various internal processes, OS standards, and refresh cycle schedules.  • Participated in hardware reduction cost projects by providing server virtualization technology. Provided detailed updates and plans to meet project deliverables.  • Windows migration from windows 7 to windows 10  • Document and track issues via a ticketing system.  • Maintain the company anti-virus server (Symantec) and deploy patches Education Associates degree in Computer Science Southern New Hampshire University 2018 Skills WINDOWS 10, WINDOWS 7, EXCHANGE, OFFICE 2010, MAC, VMWARE, ANDROID, IOS, Active Directory, training, testing Certifications/Licenses MCSA September 2015 Microsoft Certified  Systems Associate (MCSA) credential focuses on the ability to design and build technology solutions. Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dmsfqhw7lkvt0k2 Project Management Skills: Time Management — Completed August 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/kfrq2rlsnvi-wws Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.