Senior Consultant Senior Consultant IT Director/Senior Consultant Memphis, TN Work Experience Senior Consultant eSentio Technologies November 2017 to Present Senior Project Manager leading complex, large-scale legal technology projects for AmLaw 200 clients. Specializations include DMS consolidations and conversions, information governance, litigation services, and IT strategy projects. Responsible for planning and coordinating all activities on client-facing projects ensuring the quality of project deliverables and adhering to the project budget. Provide direct supervision and mentoring of project team members ensuring a high level of technical expertise, industry-knowledge with a focus on client service. Work closely with Directors and key managers to ensure effective coordination and integration of consulting and technical services. Participate in the research, analysis, selection, and implementation of new tools, technologies and/or services. Owner Shipman Technology Consulting - Memphis, TN 2016 to 2017 Served as primary IT consultant for small to medium sized businesses ranging from 2 to 160 employees. Responsibilities included project management, procurement and implementation of hardware/software, input into long term strategic IT planning, server maintenance and oversight, and general desktop support, security and maintenance. IT Director Baker Donelson Bearman Caldwell and Berkowtiz July 2012 to June 2016 Worked with the CIO, Firm Management and stakeholders to define and implement the firm's Strategic Plan for IT infrastructure, desktop, and network technologies ensuring reliability and scalability of the firm's growth and dynamic use of technology. Member of the Technology Steering Committee and participated in the development of the IT budget. Developed, implemented and administered Change Management process. Management and oversight of incident and problem resolution activities including escalation, follow-up, reporting, and quality assurance to ensure and deliver excellent client service. Responsible for Mobile Device Management and delivery of Mobile Applications. Worked with outside audit firms to create and update policies and procedures. Actively supervised staff of 31 in multiple locations responsible for IT Services, including desktop delivery, application support, PC tech support, telecommunications, video conferencing, Help Desk and on-call support. Responsible for the telecommunications and mobile devices billing. Reduced outside vendor costs in the Help Desk by 60K in one year with no additional staff. Lead UNIX Team AutoZone - Memphis, TN November 2011 to July 2012 Responsible for creating and implementing process and procedures along with SLAs to increase response times that balance technology with business goals. Build relationships between IT groups to ensure the effective development, implementation and operability of hardware and services. Manage over 600 AIX/Linux systems making decisions concerning new hardware/software as well as upgrades to existing systems. Maintain and oversee the allocation of the $6.8MM datacenter refresh budget. Responsible for managing the conversion project of the current ODS/DW from DB2 to Greenplum creating a savings of $1MM. Manage a staff of 8. Sr. Systems Administrator AutoZone - Memphis, TN January 2011 to November 2011 Responsible for configuration and administration of a 200TB SAN network on EMC (cx4480, cx4120, cx4960) and Hitachi (9580, AMS2500, AMS2100) arrays as well as the Brocade switches. Participated in capacity planning including forecasting of needs for future infrastructure related purchases. Responsible for creating and updating SAN infrastructure and operations documentation. Participated in Disaster Recovery testing and on-call rotation for off-hours support. Principal/Owner Shipman Technology Consulting - Tennessee, IL July 2007 to December 2010 Served as primary IT consultant for small to medium sized businesses ranging from 2 to 160 employees. Responsibilities included project management, procurement and implementation of hardware/software, input into long term strategic IT planning, server maintenance and oversight, and general desktop support, security and maintenance. Data Center Manager Lydian Trust Company December 2006 to July 2007 Planned, organized, controlled and managed the overall activities of the datacenter operations including troubleshooting, backups and recovery, administration, security, documentation, asset management and end-user support. Evaluated needs and made decisions concerning new hardware/software as well as upgrades to existing systems. Participated in the process of hardware/software vendor identification, evaluation and selection. Developed and monitored the annual budget for the Datacenter Operations area. Managed a staff of seven. Systems Engineer Lydian Trust Company May 2006 to December 2006 Responsible for setup, configuring, and maintaining 150+ Windows 2000/2003 servers both physical and virtual. Administered Microsoft Active Directory including but not limited to user and computer accounts, security groups and group policies. Provided technical support for DNS, DHCP, and WINS. Managed Microsoft Exchange 2003 in a clustered environment, including mailboxes, calendars and distribution lists. Monitored system logs for errors and provided resolution. Responsible for evaluating and applying Microsoft updates and service packs through third-party software. Responsible for creating and updating infrastructure and operations documentation. Provided third level support for Helpdesk. Training Coordinator Louisville Metro Government December 2004 to August 2005 Created training program for Louisville Metro Government IT department. Taught classes on all Microsoft Office programs. Maintained and updated training registration information records; managed rosters of attendees/wait lists for all training programs. Maintained the training calendar and web pages. Coordinated external training vendors, including tracking invoice submission and payments. Maintained and updated all training-related materials, templates, resources and databases. Served as the primary point of contact for Metro Government employees on IT training operations. Provided front-line email and phone support for training inquiries. Tracked training program data, aggregate success metrics and provided regular reports to CIO. Informed Metro Government employees of training programs through email communications, web site updates and creative communications means. Systems Engineer II Louisville Metro Government April 2004 to December 2004 Provided technical assistance in hardware, operating system, services and enterprise architecture. Developed technical standards; investigated and evaluated new products and upgrades. Provided resolution for performance and availability problems. Performed root-cause analysis; determined and set up server configurations. Systems Administrator AutoZone, Inc June 1999 to October 2003 Served as Administrator for 8 Novell servers and 54 Windows NT 4.0/2000 servers in a multi-protocol, multi-segment, multi-vendor network with 1200+ nodes. Maintained multi-partition NDS and transitioned over 15 NetWare 4.11 servers to 8 NetWare 5.1 servers. Served on team transitioning to Active Directory from Novell and NT 4.0. Designed and implemented 10 server Citrix Metaframe XPe farm delivering 10 core applications to 300+ users. Helped implement standardization and procedural standards for servers and workstations. Built and maintained NT/2000 servers in both client/server and Citrix MetaFrame environments. Served as Administrator for a 700+ remote access solution across the US and Mexico. Banking Systems Administrator AutoZone, Inc March 1997 to June 1999 Managed Driscoll UAR/DV Reconcilement System, including disbursement files, daily polling bank BAI files, file balancing, scheduling the loading of files and managing the extraction of expense items to the general ledger. Worked with end-users to troubleshoot and repair common PC problems. Installed new hardware and software. Performed upgrades to Windows NT server running MSSQL 6.5. Provided users with Microsoft application as well as customized software support. Education Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer Middle Tennessee State University - Murfreesboro, TN University of Memphis - Memphis, TN