Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer - Mphasis Humble, TX Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Mphasis - Houston, TX June 2019 to Present • Testing and validation of storage platform features on various hardware & configurations of servers.  • Experience in writing test plan, test cases and executing test cases.  • Hands on experience in storage testing D3700 D3600, P2700, P2000/3000 HP/HPE disk Storage System Enclosure  • Hands on experience various enterprise servers like HPE/DELL/SuperMicro etc..  • Hands on experience in various storage adapters & drives(SATA, SATA SSD, SAS, SAS SSD, NVMe, M.2 card, PCIe NVMe SSD, PCIe M.2 adapter)  • Experience writing Perl/Python scripts as required. Linux/UNIX Systems Administrator DXC Technologies Inc - Houston, TX January 2018 to July 2018 • HP-UX / LINUX System Provisioning and Administration.  • Facilitate new server builds including RHEL 6 and 7, CentOS 6 and 7, SUSE 11 and HP-UX 11.31 on HPE Proliant BL and DL series servers.  • Perform software installation, upgrades/patches using rpm, yum and swlist and perform, troubleshooting, and maintenance on UNIX/Linux servers.  • Configure physical and virtual machines, including VMware 5.x, 6.x and HP Integrity Virtual Machine guests.  • Install Vmware Vsphere 5.x and create virtual machines on ESX 5.x servers  • Configure, deployed, managed and troubleshoot servers and virtual machines  • Configure, deployed, managed and maintained RHEL7.4 cluster on ESXi 5.5/6.5 nodes  • Create standard images and deployed servers from the image.  • Worked on central Management Server(vcenter Server)to manage all ESX hosts in datacenter.  • Worked on VMware update Manager for updating or patching for all ESX hosts and virtual machines  • Service Guard cluster installation and configuration for stand alone, local and site-to-site clusters & running SAP and Oracle preinstallation scripts and packages.  • Perform software installation, upgrades/patches using rpm, yum and swlist and perform, troubleshooting, and maintenance on UNIX/Linux servers.  • Train other employees on both UNIX / LINUX administration and other technologies.  • Migrate existing servers to new networks and/or domains.  • Resolve network, software and hardware issues with newly built servers.  • Communicate with other teams to improve the build process and flow.  • Integrated the Linux environment with Active Directory providing a Single Sign On (SSO) solution.  • Created Bash/Korn shell scripts as required for installation, configuration & administration QA Engineer Hewlett Packard Enterprise - Houston, TX August 2012 to October 2017 • Testing HP Moonshot, software defined server designed to run internet scale applications. Validating functionality of embedded health, networking features, and multiple server management Test validations across HP Enterprise Servers and Storage products with network adaptors from Intel, Broadcom and Qlogic on Red hat enterprise Linux, SUSE Linux, Windows Enterprise Server 2012, VMware Operating Systems.  • Creating High Performance Computing (HPC) cluster using HP moonshot HPC server cartridges using Linux OS and NetApp Storage using Hp Insight cluster management utility(CMU).  • Administering and managing NetApp versions Data ONTAP, 7 mode, and Cluster Mode.  • Support NetApp FAS/V/E-Series Controllers, Data ONTAP 7mode & cDOT, multi-protocol network file servers (CIFS, NFSv3/4, iSCSI, FCP, FCoE)  • Testing and validation of platform features and hardware configurations of servers.  • Authored and executed test cases based on iLO software application that are tied to the existing servers.  • Performing validation of operating system installs.  • Installation & configuration of VMware ESXi 5.0/5.5/6.5 hypervisor on bare-metal HP server hardware for hardware testing and also connecting ESXi host using Vsphere 5.x/6.x.  • Installation & configuration of pfsense for IPV6&IPV4DHCP, DNS, Firewall & Web server load balancing.  • Updating status in QA database.  • Exposed to various server operating systems and server platforms.  • Testing environment setup of software and hardware.  • Testing system, network and software potential security risk on ILO software application. Technician Analyst Dell Inc - Round Rock, TX February 2011 to January 2012 • Set up, Configuring, troubleshooting and testing prototype assemblies, Dell Power Connect switches and software.  • Test validations across Dell Enterprise Servers and Storage products with network adaptors from Intel, Broadcom and Qlogic on Red hat enterprise Linux, SUSE Linux, Windows Enterprise Server 2008, VMware Operating Systems.  • Responsible for qualifying drivers, firmware, and software applications for network adapters in server systems.  • Performing functional tests and to analyze newly developed systems to ensure operation and reliability.  • Assemble and disassemble prototype systems as required for testing. IT Specialist Business Inc April 2008 to January 2011 Project: IT Specialist, Edison Carrier Solutions & Electric Power group, CA  Project: SCE Admin, Southern California Edison, CA    • Installation, configuration, testing, troubleshooting, supporting and implementation of Crew Manager client-servers application.  • MS SQL 2008/2005 scripting and administration.  • Installation, configuration, implementation, troubleshooting & supporting of Hyper-V on Windows Server 2008 Server Core.  • Installation, configuration, implementation, troubleshooting of High Availability & failover clustering & load balancing in windows 2008 & Red hat enterprise Linux environment.  • Installation, configuration, implementation of Windows Storage server and setting up ISCSI targets.  • Server and Desktop management, administration and support.  • Users pro-visioning/de-provisioning using ITIM  • File share administration, creating security groups and giving access to shared resources.  • Active Directory/ DHCP/DNS/WINS & printer management & administration  • Approval process granting access through Peregrine access ordering system. IT Consultant Fourth Technologies Inc January 2000 to March 2008 List of project handled during this tenure Systems Administrator PeopleSoft ecenter, CA October 2001 to May 2002 Sr Systems Administrator Panasas Inc - Fremont, CA May 2001 to September 2001 Sr System Administrator Silicon Graphics - Mountain View, CA June 2000 to April 2001 Sr Systems Administrator Sai Systems, CT January 2000 to May 2000 Education Post Graduate Diploma In Electronics in Electronics Ravishankar University - Raipur, Chhattisgarh March 1988 to May 1989 Bachelor's in Physics,Chemistary,mathematics Ravishankar Universiy - Raipur, Chhattisgarh March 1985 to March 1988 Skills APACHE, FREEBSD, IRIX (5 years), LINUX (10+ years), LINUX/UNIX (10+ years), Windows Servers (10+ years), Networking (10+ years), Hardware (10+ years), Virtualization (7 years), Storage (6 years), SQL (5 years), Web Services (5 years) Links http://@Business Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer: MCP + Internet (Windows NT4.0/Enterprise /95/TCP/IP/IIS) Present IRIX System/Network Administration Present