IT Systems Administrator II IT <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Unix Manager - UMB Bank Odessa, MO Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Systems Administrator II Commerce Bank - Kansas City, MO February 2017 to Present • Manage 1300+ Windows and 50+ Linux servers.  • Build and deploy servers within both development and production environments.  • Provide service and expertise on PCI related projects.  • Assist during all Disaster Recovery tests.  • Perform routine patches and upgrades to server operating systems.  • Assist application support teams with installs and updates or migrations on servers.  • Routinely work as on-call to support any issues that may arise during off hours.  • Create accounts for new users / Remove accounts no longer in use.  • Assist with creating new policies for both fellow system administrators, as well as end users. IT Manager Commerce Bank - Kansas City, MO June 2005 to February 2017 Collaborated with peers, associates and other internal banking customers to insure we were all  striving towards the highest level of success for the company.  • Developed organizational goals, objectives and perform annual reviews recommending promotions and salary adjustments.  • Focused on growing and developing associates by ensuring that each member of my staff has the best  opportunities available to them not only to help the company but also help them grow as an individual  contributor.  • Maintained procedures to insure all user policies and security standards were maintained and followed  insuring that we maintained the corporate compliance policy.  • Evaluated the organization's technology use and operating workflows, recommending improvements such as hardware and software upgrades to maintain maintenance expenses at/below budgetary  requirements.  • Recruited and participated in staffing decisions amongst several teams.  • Implemented processes to assist in adhering to compliance standards, licensing requirements and recognizing overages in order to reduce the total cost of ownership for software.  • With these stringent monitoring processes of licenses in place the bank did not receive any compliance  issues from an IBM audit.  •••  • Drove impressive improvements amongst several vendors articulating maintenance requirements to maintain a 3% annual budget growth.  • Managed the implementation of a backup and recovery policy.  • Managed the Migration Project implementing strategies to migrate several applications from the AIX  platform into a Linux or Windows environment. Closely worked with vendors and application support  teams to insure that all aspects of the project were followed and completed successfully.  • Managed a project designing hardware infrastructure for the disaster facility. This required detailed  work involving several application and infrastructure teams implementing over 50 servers and 100 plus applications.  • Assisted in creating, implementing and maintaining Service Level Agreements ensure that we always are  meeting the requirements set forth to our customers.  • Closely worked with Operations, Networking and Server teams ensuring that projects are completed on time and that customer support is maintained at the highest level. System Administrator IV Commerce Bank - Kansas City, MO October 2001 to June 2005 As the Team Lead, worked closely as a mentor ensuring knowledge transfer and cross training took place  maintaining a balance of skills amongst the team.  • Created several reports, spreadsheets and presentations for senior management showing performance  statistics or budgeting forecasts for new purchases.  • Maintained and administered 80+ AIX computer systems and related computing environments including  computer hardware, systems and application software.  • Recommended new technologies to management.  • Designed and performed data backups, created disaster recovery documentation and tested this  process on a quarterly basis.  • Diagnosed and resolved hardware, software and system problems. Education Certificate of Completion in Computer Programmer Electronic Computer Programming Institute - Kansas City, MO August 1984 to May 1986 Computer Science University Central Missouri - Warrensburg, MO May 1984 Skills AIX (10+ years), LINUX (10+ years), STAFFING (10+ years), EXCEL (Less than 1 year), LOGISTICS (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Skills    • Project Management, Mentoring, Leadership, Team Building  • Staffing, Logistics, ScrumWorks  • Microsoft Excel, Power Point and Word, WebSphere,  • IBM MQ Series, Planview, Assyst  • AIX, Linux, IBM Power Systems, Tandem and HPUX  • Window 2012 Server, VmWare