Senior Systems Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Senior Systems Engineer - Chakra Consulting Falls Church, VA Work Experience Senior Systems Engineer Chakra Consulting June 2015 to Present with the Office of Information Systems Management at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). Provide Red Hat Enterprise Linux version 5, 6, and 7 system design and support. Develop and implement Red Hat Satellite 6 system (puppet, foreman, katello, pulp, candlepin) for secure configuration, centralized system management, patch management, and system life cycle development of all internal Red Hat systems. Plan and coordinate integration of Red Hat/CentOS systems for Active Directory authentication, single sign-on, and smart card capability through Centrify Direct Control. Developed native Linux authentication to Active Directory services with smartcard support via System Security Services Daemon. Provide documentation, plans, and status reports to senior management and associated member teams. Knowledge of DevOps practices, Git, VMware ESXi ver 4.1-6.5, Debian/Ubuntu Linux and Ubuntu Landscape Service, Puppet Open Source, OpenSCAP, Tenable Nessus, Amazon Web Services EC2 & S3, OpenNMS, NAGIOS Core and other network monitoring systems. Knowledgeable on NIST Special Publication 800-53 security controls. CISSP & ITIL Foundations V3 certifications. Sterling Computers Corporation January 2015 to April 2015 Senior Systems Engineer and consultant specializing in Red Hat Enterprise Linux systems and Red Hat Satellite Server. Provide patch management advice, OS customizations, and system hardening and vulnerability assessments to include CVE's, IAVA mitigations, bug fixes, and patch prioritization. Working knowledge of Puppet Enterprise. Senior Systems Engineer Arion Systems Inc July 2014 to December 2014 for cyber engineering group providing Red Hat Enterprise Linux systems expertise to include builds, customization, OS hardening & security, and deployment strategies. System scanning to include OpenSCAP, SECSCAN, and Tenable Nessus. Knowledge in a wide variety of information technologies areas. Knowledge of ArcSight ESM and Connectors providing custom OS builds for both. Clearance: yes. Red Hat Satellite Systems Architect Primescape Solutions November 2013 to May 2014 provide design, build, and management expertise on the Red Hat Enterprise Linux Satellite version 5.5 provisioning system for consistent Red Hat OS builds, patch management, and profile management on a large scale enterprise network. Utilize both commercial version and open source Spacewalk version 2.0 of management system. OpenNMS network monitoring and VMware vSphere client. Familiar with Puppet Enterprise 3.3 provisioning system. Clearance: yes. Senior Systems Engineer, provide client support Science Applications International Corporation January 2013 to September 2013 for Red Hat Enterprise Linux systems, VMware vCenter and VMware ESXi 5.x hosts running both Linux and MS Windows virtual systems and provide support for other network infrastructure systems. Develop Red Hat Satellite/Spacewalk service, local rpm repositories, patch management, and hardening of operating systems per CIS guidelines. Deploy OpenNMS network monitoring systems for both development and production environments to include virtual systems. Knowledge of NAGIOS network monitoring system and familiar with Citrix Zen Desktop/Zen App, Cloudera Hadoop, and Network Appliances Cluster Mode 8 operations. Clearance: yes. Senior Systems Engineer consultant Sterling Computers Corporation October 2011 to December 2012 for General Dynamics Advanced Information Systems, perform Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5.5, 5.6, and 6.3 system hardening per DISA, NSA, and CIS guidelines for system deployments on VMware ESXi hosts, physical systems, and as a base for a cloud computing infrastructure.  As Senior Systems Integration Analyst consultant for Lockheed Martin, work performed in an information assurance lab-to-production environment with TCS trusted gateway cross domain systems. Installation, hardening, and maintenance of multiple Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5.x systems. System installations performed via Red Hat kickstart procedures on both physical and virtual systems. Experience with VMware vCenter Server 5.0 and ESXi hosts, with both Red Hat Linux and Windows Server 2008 guest installations. Familiar with Juniper SSG 320M Firewall and Cisco 2950 series switches. Clearance: yes. Senior Systems Engineer Indyne, Inc June 2006 to September 2011 at NASA Headquarters HITSS (Headquarters Information Technology Support Services) program: NASA Headquarters lead engineer for Red Hat Linux systems. Designed, built, and support the Red Hat Linux Satellite/Kickstart servers, deploying numerous new applications on the Red Hat Enterprise Linux operating systems on high availability Dell systems. Working with Red Hat Enterprise Virtualization Manager & Hypervisor, KVM, and XEN in a development environment. NASA Headquarters lead engineer for agency wide RSA Authentication Manager consolidation effort. Current lead on RSA support for NASA Headquarters security domain. Built, support, and maintain Juniper Networks SSL VPN network access system. Participated in the design, build, and deployment of the Network Appliances 3070 high availability network attached storage (NAS) system for HQ Windows and UNIX file share network. Build out of RealNetworks Helix Universal Server streaming systems for NASA TV. Provide technical support and participate in the analysis and data collection of the annual penetration testing and studies of the HQ network. Create documentation, presentations, status reports, and milestone achievements to senior staff. Provide overall general support, technical advice/assistance, and research and development of new projects and technologies. Clearance: yes. Senior Systems Engineer Science Applications International Corporation December 2004 to May 2006 Senior member of the System of Systems Integrated Laboratories for the Future Combat Systems U.S. Army program. Perform design, setup, and maintenance of all lab systems to support development personnel. Provide support to unclassified systems and classified systems located on the Defense Research Engineering Network.  SMART Engineer: As a member of the Future Combat Systems Integrated Simulations & Test Integrated Products Team, assist in the development of the architecture for the System of Systems Simulation Framework for the Simulations and Modeling for Acquisition, Requirements, and Training group. Provided input to the FCS Simulations Support Plan in charge of Networks, Interoperability, and Information Assurance requiring knowledge of DITSCAP, NISPOM, AR380-5, DODAF and other program sensitive policies and directives. Clearance: yes Senior Systems Engineer Science Applications International Corporation December 1997 to December 2004 As ISEM Engineering team member, provide systems support and security for NASA HQ Information Technology Systems Engineering and Management program. Develop and maintain NASA's public and internal web sites running on SGI, Sun Systems, and Linux platforms, utilizing both Apache and Sun ONE Enterprise Server software. Build, install, upgrade, and maintain RSA ACE/SecurID, TACACS, and Radius servers, clients, and develop cross-realm authentication for Agency wide deployment. Integrated SecurID services and build of NASA's secure portal services. Familiar with Checkpoint Firewall-1 and with Cisco PIX firewalls. Project Lead on NASA's Time and Labor Collection System. Built NASA HQ Data Warehouse system with BRIO application installation. Built and setup NASA Penetration and Intrusion detection training system. Advise NASA clients on current technologies and implement strategies. Interface with all other divisions on combined projects and support UNIX side applications. Research, develop, support, and implement other NASA projects as needed. Clearance: yes. Senior Systems Engineer Dynamic Animation Systems April 1997 to December 1997 Provide systems support for SAIC Simulations Technology Division, High Level Architecture Project. Administer all hardware and software on network to include: Sun Solaris, SGI IRIX, IBM AIX, Hewlett Packard HP_UX, DEC OSF1, and Windows NT workstations. Set up HLA Training center with dual boot Windows NT and Sun Solaris X86 operating systems. Responsible for installation and configuration of network and Internet access at new office complex. Administer ClearCase software configuration management system. Clearance: yes. Systems Administrator Simulations Center January 1997 to April 1997 Administer all SGI and Sun equipment in Simulations Center network utilizing ModSAF applications for simulated warfare scenarios. Utilize TCP/IP, NFS, NIS, and DNS. Responsible for all installs, upgrades, and patches. Perform system backups with Networker software and Exabyte jukebox. Created upgrade plan for all systems to SGI Octane/Reality 2 and Sun Ultra systems. Clearance: yes. Coordinator of Information Systems National Association of Independent Colleges & Universities October 1995 to January 1997 Manage all aspects of Information Systems to include telecommunications, database, and network administration in a SunOS UNIX diskless environment. Installed new T1 telco line for integration of telephone system and Internet. Designed and purchased new Windows NT network workstations and servers for implementation of new database for NAICU business. Systems Administrator Signal Corporation, Night Vision & Electronic Sensors Directorate September 1994 to September 1995 Responsible for a multiple server, 800+ user network, at the Night Vision Laboratories at Fort Belvoir, Virginia. Utilized TCP/IP, NFS, and NIS on Sun, Solbourne, and Silicon Graphics workstations and servers. Duties include setup and installation of hardware and software, i.e., workstations, disk drives, memory, various associated processor cards, software applications, etc. Monitor all aspects of the Labnet domain. Assisted all users in their requests, problems, and questions. Interact with area software vendors for UNIX compatible applications. Established laboratory standards for SGI workstations. Clearance: yes. Systems Administrator National Association February 1994 to August 1994 Responsible for the administration of a 100 node Novell network utilizing Windows 3.1, and for the administration of an IBM RISC/6000 using a Unidata OS. Operations Manager, Systems Administration Value Behavioral Health, Inc - Falls Church, VA May 1991 to January 1994 and Communications Networking: Managed day-to-day systems operations for the premier Mental Health HMO in the country.    OTHER RELEVENT PROFFESIONAL EXPERIENCE:  Defense Intelligence Agency, The Pentagon  Computer Operations Specialist. Clearance: yes.  Defense Communications Agency, Andrews Air Force Base, Md.  Computer Communications Operator. Clearance: yes.    OTHER PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE:  Exchange, LTD. Restaurant, Washington, DC  Restaurant Manager. Education Certified Information Systems Security Professional NetApp University Certification NetApp University System Management The Learning Tree International Diploma in Computer Operations Curriculum Computer Learning Center Automatic Digital Switching Technician School Air Force Training Center - Andrews AFB, MD Communications Technician School Naval Technical Training Center - Pensacola, FL