Linux Systems Administrator / RedHat Satellite Administrator Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> / RedHat Satellite <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Linux Systems Administrator / RedHat Satellite Administrator - Leidos Innovations Hanover, MD • IT professional with over 14+ years of experience in IT  • 12+ years of progressive experience as a Linux System Administrator supporting the implementation, analysis, optimization, troubleshooting, and deployment of various applications on RedHat 5, 6 and 7.  • Very knowledgeable in application deployment and virtualization on VMware ESXi.  • Proficient in system provisioning, patching, and backup and recovery as well as UNIX networking.  • Experience in the administration and maintenance of AWS cloud services.  • Experience using Ansible to automate repetitive tasks and set up continues delivery pipeline.  • Proficient in AWS, Oracle and Azure Cloud administration and maintenance.  • Experience using automation tools such as Ansible and Chef to automate repetitive tasks and set up continues delivery pipeline.  • Experience managing Oracle Exadata infrastructure including but not limited to, operating system administration, Exadata QPD patching and Image update, ILOM administration, Grid Infrastructure Administration, Database Administration and Storage Administration.  • Knowledge in Oracle Exalytics maintenance and administration, including application of security patches and ILOM administration.  • Experience with monitoring tools such as Sevone, Dynatrace, OEM and Oneagent.  • Experience using terraform and Ansible to deploy to various Cloud platforms such as AWS, Azure and Oracle Cloud.  • Proficient in Automatic Storage Management (ASM) including creating ASM disk groups from SAN disks, adding/removing ASM disks to existing ASM disk group, dropping disk group.  • Experience in Bash and python Scripting languages  • Extensive experience in the installation, configuring and maintenance of Applications such as Apache, Weblgic, Splunk, Tripwire ( TE agent and Axon), TrendMicro, EBS SOA, BigFix Work Experience Linux Systems Administrator / RedHat Satellite Administrator Leidos Innovations July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Built, deployed and configured hundreds of RHEL 7 Linux (on IBM Linux ONE) and VMware hosts for the Centers of Medicare Medicaid (CMS) LMDC 2.0 project, thereby providing the path for enabling the smooth and successful migration from legacy RHEL 5 servers using Ansible  • Designing and deploying dynamically scalable, available, fault-tolerant, and reliable applications in the Cloud ( AWS and Oracle)  • Manage full application stacks from the OS through custom applications using Amazon cloud-based computing environments  • Experience is creating and utilizing AWS Cloud Formation templates to automate creation of AWS images  • Creating and managing VPC, URL proxies, C2S access points & as well as Bastion Hosts.  • Use Ansible and Chef as configuration management tools to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploy critical applications, and proactively manage changes  • Installed, configured and maintain applications such as Splunk, Tripwire and Trendmicro  • Installed, configured and maintain Netbackup application 8.x versions.  • Installed, configured and maintain EntireX application version 10 by SoftwareAG  • Performs quarterly Oracle Exadata QPD patching for all Oracle Compute Nodes and Storage Nodes.  • Implementing Red Hat Enterprise workstation provisioning process via Red Hat satellite 6.4 and 6.5 for both RHEL 6 and RHEL 7 clients/workstations.  • Maintain and Support Virtualization technology using VMware and Redhat Vitualization.  • Used Ansible Playbooks to set up RHEL builds and register them to Red Hat Satellite.  • Responsible for the overall maintenance and management of Unix/Linux servers and Red Hat satellite 6.4 and 6.5 capsules in line with management compliance requirements  • Responsible for creating and maintaining Unix user accounts using LDAP  • Experience in AWS security concepts with hands-on experience in implementing security controls and compliance requirements.  • Experience providing support and maintaining Disaster Recovery environment  • Performing patching, upgrades and security with extensive troubleshooting of OS and application and Firewall issues.  • Performing daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware, server resources, system and key processes, and reviewing systems and application logs.  • Responsible for the maintenance and troubleshooting of Load Balancers including F5 load Balancer.  Performing performance tuning on OS and hardware, and daily maintenance of zLinux systems and VMware machines running on mainframe architecture and x86 blade servers respectively Linux Systems Administrator Tessco Technologies - Timonium, MD February 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Implemented RedHat Enterprise workstation provisioning process via RedHat satellite 6.1, 6.2 and 6.3 for both RHEL 6 and RHEL 7 clients/workstations.  • Maintained and managed RedHat Satellite server.  • Developed and maintained the Linux architecture to ensure maximum availability and performance.  • Oversaw Linux systems, using RedHat Satellite for configuration management and enforcement, as well as to ensure systems are updated and current.  • Established system plans for new applications and/or business needs.  • Worked with systems owners to ensure most efficient use of storage, with maximum performance.  • Created and managed user accounts, security, rights, disk space and process monitoring in CentOS and RedHat Linux  • Installed, upgraded and configured RedHat Linux 5, 6, and 7 using Kickstart Servers and Interactive Installation.  • Installed, configured and supported Apache on Linux production, troubleshot network issues and response problems.  • Installed, configured and maintained the efficient running of RedHat Satellite Server.  • Managed organizations SAP environment systems, users, authorizations and profiles  • Installed and maintained security patches on a variety of systems, which includes but is not limited to, RedHat Linux, JBoss and Apache systems.  • Repaired and recovered from hardware or software failures.  • Coordinated and communicated with impacted constituencies.  • Performed daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware, server resources, system and key processes, and reviewing systems and application logs. Linux Systems Administrator Innovative Technology Consulting - Stafford, VA February 2011 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  • Research and implemented an agile work flow for continuous integration and testing of applications using Jenkins  • Installed new servers, rebuilt existing servers and configure hardware, peripherals, services, settings, directories, storage, etc. in accordance with standards and project/operational requirements  • Installed, upgraded and configured RedHat Linux 4.x, 5.x, 6.x, 7.x using Kickstart Servers and Interactive Installation.  • Monitored and reported system security, performance and events utilizing system monitoring tools, Nagios.  • Responsible for creating and managing user accounts, security, rights, disk space and process monitoring in CentOS and RedHat Linux.  • Configured DNS, NFS, FTP, remote access, and security management.  • Created Linux Virtual Machines using VMware Virtual Center.  • Installed, upgraded and managed packages via RPM and YUM package management  • Installed Firmware Upgrades, kernel patches, systems configuration, performance tuning on UNIX/Linux systems.  • Installed, configured and supported Apache on Linux production servers.  • Managed systems routine backup, scheduling jobs and enabling cron jobs.  • Administered VMware Infrastructure Client 3.5 and vSphere 4.x. & 5.x Remote Help Desk Support Specialist Lowes Home Improvement Inc - Bowie, MD February 2007 to February 2011 • Managed call center activities to meet service level agreements  • Performed PC support and maintenance for over 200 people  • Installed and upgraded video cards, modems, hard drives, IDE controllers, SCSI drives, power supplier and memory components  • Created help desk documentation with step by step instructions on problem resolving techniques  • Responded to queries pertinent to package details, e-commerce solutions, email configurations and search engine submission packages  • Installed operating system, software, antiviruses and patches  • Provided technical support to customers via telephone, email and through tickets Education M.S. in Human Resource Management in Human Resource Management University of Maryland University College 2008 B.S. in Psychology in Psychology University of Ghana Skills System Administrator, System Admin, Linux, Vmware