Senior Systems Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Systems Administrator - Caelum Research Berkley, MI Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator Caelum Research December 2014 to Present • Supported, configured and maintained over 100 physical Windows Server 2008 R2 / 2012 servers and over 100 virtual Windows Server 2008 R2 / 2012 servers using VMWare VSphere v6.    • Individually setup and configured Windows Server 2008 R2 and 2012 servers, including 20 physical servers and 15 virtual servers using VMWare VSphere v6.    • Hardened all server operating system machines in compliance with DoD STIG and SCAP regulations.    • Provided Level II and Level III server and technical support for entire Detroit Arsenal with approximately 5000 users and over 200 servers.    • Managed and administrated NetApp 8.0.5 Network Attached Storage (NAS) and File arrays in unclassified and secure environments.    • Created, managed, and maintained over 300 network printers used across the Detroit Arsenal, with an over 90% collective up-time.    • Ensured server data integrity and monitored performance by evaluating, implementing and managing appropriate software and hardware solutions.    • Ensured server uptime and availability by strategically scheduling maintenance and upgrades during defined business off-hours.    • Supported media management through internal methods and procedures or through offsite storage and retrieval services.    • Conducted routine hardware and software audits of workstations and servers to ensure 100% compliance.    • Scheduled installations, upgrades and maintenance.    • Performed Active Directory support and change management for OU's, including user account management, object management, and group policy configuration and modifications.    • Successfully completed all assigned tickets within Remedy Helpdesk ticketing system with a service level of 100% and 100% customer satisfaction.    • Implemented and maintained Information Assurance (IA) security policies and guidelines, as well as DIACAP initiative procedures. Desktop Systems Administrator/Information Assurance Security Officer Jacobs Technology (Contr) October 2008 to December 2014 IASO)  • Migrated systems from MS Vista to MS Windows 7 through Imaging via SCCM server and migrated web-browser from IE8 to IE9.    • Assisted staff with the installation, configuration, and ongoing usability of desktop and laptop computers, peripheral equipment and software.    • Configured mobile devices for VPN access to Detroit Arsenal network.    • Resolved operating system issues by telephone, remotely connecting to end user's system, or by visiting an end user's desktop.    • Maintained software database, tracked each system's installed licensed software and added to database. Also managed Asset Management program.    • Worked with Active Directory domains including creating/deleting user accounts.    • Received IAVA patch instructions, installed security patches as instructed from the NEC.    • Tracked problem tickets in database PC/LAN Analyst/ System Administrator Lockheed Martin January 2000 to August 2008 • Provided Desktop Support to all members of 927th Air Refueling Wing of the Air Force Reserves.    • Provided desktop support to over 500 end users at multiple locations.    • Performed general maintenance tasks, troubleshooting, and repairing computer systems and peripheral equipment.    • Performed hardware installation, de-installation, moves, adds, and changes in Windows 2000/XP environment.    • Provided user data and application recovery support.    • Customized desktop hardware to meet user specifications and company standards.    • Provided basic Cisco router and switch support for local networking traffic.    • Used diagnostic tools to determine problems associated with network connectivity, systems performance and workstation hardware/software.    • Used tools and methodologies as directed to load, copy, and customize operating system configurations.    • Returned defective modules / parts to maintenance inventory, document customer depot repairs, maintain and restock assigned parts inventory to insure proper spare parts levels.    • Trained end users on basic software, hardware and peripheral device standard.    • Utilized Windows RDP to connect to end user computers remotely    • Configured end user VPN software to allow network connectivity. Education Bachelor of Science degree in Information Technology and Security Baker College 2008 Skills Active directory, Dhcp, Vmware, Dns, Netapp, Ontap, Linux, Client/server, Windows 10, Lan, Microsoft office, Mac, Mac os, Problem solving Links http://Linkedin.com/davidjacobs1987 Certifications/Licenses NetApp NCDA 7-Mode February 2017 to Present MCSA Windows Server 2012 July 2014 to Present CompTIA A+ January 2011 to January 2020 CompTIA Security+ January 2011 to January 2020 Assessments Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jyv2su3b-emy-lns Technical Support — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/cgjlsuzgyx83nmfr Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS  • Windows Server • DHCP • Mobile Software  • Windows 10 • DNS • Troubleshooting  • Linux Client/Server • VMWare VSphere v6 • Critical Thinking  • NetApp Data ONTAP • LAN/WiFi Connection • Technical Writing  • Microsoft Office • Active Directory • Self Motivation  • Mac OS • Dell Hardware • Creative Thinking  • WSUS • Mobile Hardware • Problem Solving