IT Manager/ Systems Administrator IT Manager/<span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Manager Woodridge, IL Insightful IT Specialist with notable success at implementing, maintaining, and directing a broad range of corporate IT initiatives while participating in planning, analysis, and implementation of solutions in support of business objectives. Hands-on experience leading all stages of systems development efforts, including requirements definition, design, architecture, testing and support. Desiring an IT position with a growing company that can satisfy my desire for bigger, more challenging work. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Manager/ Systems Administrator The HERRING Group, Inc. - Elmhurst, IL January 2002 to Present • Managed all company technology resources ranging from implementation of new hardware and software on company computers, training of employees on how to best use company systems, and troubleshooting PC and network issues that may arise.   • Collaborated with colleagues to discuss IT strategies that would be impacted by expanding company services to minimize business interruption due to the business adding new services.   • Designed, created, and maintained relational databases using SQL for client information, employee records, as well as all financial data. Used Salesforce to create detailed reports for analysis on a weekly, monthly, and yearly basis to understand business trends and future needs.  • Managed all sales systems, including CRM and sales portal; working with users to discover, document and analyze key business processes. Selling Manager Papyrus - Oak Brook, IL March 2010 to May 2019 • Accepted and processed customer payments in cash, credit cards and checks, checking for validity.  • Acknowledged customer issues and resolved their problems quickly and efficiently.  • Contacted existing and new customers to discover their needs and to explain how certain products could be useful to them.  • Followed up with customers ensuring their satisfaction with their purchases.  • Fulfilled administrative duties, including completing and filing paperwork, directing a multi-line phone and setting appointments.  • Informed customers about current promotions and sales, encouraging them to take advantage. Education Bachelor's in Information Technology Elmhurst College - Elmhurst, IL Skills System Admin, System Administrator, Project Management (5 years), Windows (10+ years), Mac OS X (5 years), SQL (10+ years), HTML 5 (3 years), Java (2 years), Javascript (2 years)