Electronic Phone Technician Electronic Phone Technician It systems help desk Woodbridge, VA Seeking an IT Support Analyst position to fully utilize my skills and experience. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Electronic Phone Technician Pyteck Services - Woodbridge, VA January 2016 to Present Session 3 - 70-742  This exam focuses on the identity functionality in Windows Server 2016. It covers the installation and configuration of Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS), in addition to Group Policy implementation for non-Nano Server environments. It also covers functionality such as Active Directory  Certificate Services (AD CS), Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS), and Web Application proxy implementations.  Electronic Repair Technician  Jan. 2016 - Present  • Diagnosed and troubleshot a large variety of iPhones with various issues which improved my problem-solving skills.  • Dealt with customer enquiries which helped me gain better interpersonal skills and patience.  • Analyzed and collected statistics on most frequently damaged and replaced iPhone parts with Google.  • Specialize in the installation of hardware, installation of software, troubleshooting hardware, and troubleshooting software in a computer.  • Increased security and performance of systems by installation of new antivirus software and critical operating systems update. IT warehouse associate ITRenew - Sterling, VA March 2019 to July 2019 Job Duties   • Prepare and file documents for scanning   • Entering data into Excel   • Log incoming projects   • Follow unitizing procedures   • Follow box Check-In, Check-Out procedures   • Identify and address issues   • Set project prep requirements (using project matrix, requirements sheet)   • Take on Prep Lead and Scan Lead roles based on client projects Systems Administrator Fedex Supply Chain September 2018 to March 2019 The Systems Administrator I will maintain and monitor Company systems and related infrastructure to meet business requirements. The incumbent will ensure that systems hardware, operating systems, software systems, and related procedures adhere to the predefined standards.  This position will be responsible for ..  • Perform routine administration and maintenance of designated system(s) to meet the Company business requirements.  • Monitor systems to achieve optimum level of performance.  • Monitor servers for compliance with established standards, policies, configuration guidelines and procedures.  • Provide capacity analysis reports/data.  • Monitor server backups on a daily basis.  • Perform first level problem determination and resolution to ensure availability and stability of corporate based platforms according to established service level agreements.  • Escalate higher level issues to senior levels as required. Education Associate in Information technology Northern Virginia Community College - Woodbridge, VA September 2018 High school or equivalent Potomac Senior High School - Dumfries, VA None Pyteck IT Bootcamp - Woodbridge, VA Skills Desktop Support, Active Directory, Help Desk, Tech Support, Service Desk, Helpdesk Support, VPN Certifications/Licenses MCSA Server 2016 Additional Information Key Skills  Customer Service  Troubleshooting/ Problem Solving  Up-Selling/Sales Support  Customer Order Fulfillment    Call Center Operations  Technical/User Support  Complaint Handling  Reports & Documentation    SKILLS  • Advanced in Microsoft: Word, PowerPoint, InDesign, Outlook and Excel  • Fluent in French, Twi, and English  • Phone Technician