Job Seeker Park Ridge, NJ To obtain a position within an organization where I can develop and utilize my technical, leadership, and people skills. Work Experience Medwiz LLC - New York, NY July 2018 to Present Systems Administrator 2018 to Present Provide 1st, 2nd, and 3rd level support for 1000 employees globally.  ? Integrate new technologies and software into company infrastructure to increase security, organization, and productivity.  ? Support and Administer Office 365, and troubleshoot mail flow issues.  ? Administrator of Active Directory, Phone system, Sophos Firewall and network infrastructure.  ? Install and administer virtual servers using Vmware ESXi, Hyper V, and Nutanix  ? Perform virtual server migrations from VMware and Hyper V to Nutanix  ? Test, approve and deploy Microsoft and 3rd party security patches using Labtech Automate.  ? Managed and deploy all company iPhones and Android devices using ManageEngine MDM.  ? Implemented and supported Spiceworks Helpdesk and Inventory systems. Systems Administrator Avaya Phone system 2017 to Present Provide 1st, 2nd, and 3rd level support for 500 employees globally.  ? Administer to both physical computers and support vitual clients via Citrix  ? Support and Deploy MS Office products/Office 365  ? Administrator of Exchange, Active Directory, Avaya Phone system, server and network infrastructure.  ? Administer virtual servers using Vmware ESXi  ? Manage all server backups and restores using Symantec  ? Deploy security patches and software updates using ManageEngine/Desktop Central  ? Centrally managed and deployed all company iPhones, and Android devices.  ? Managed all 3rd party vendor relations. Tharanco Group LLC - New York, NY October 2017 to July 2018 Hytorc - Mahwah, NJ May 2017 to September 2017 Systems Administrator Avaya Phone system 2017 to September 2017 Support all 1st, 2nd, and 3rd level support cases for 250 employees globally.  ? Administer to both physical computers and support vitual clients via Citrix  ? Support MS Office products/Office 365  ? Administrator of Exchange, Active Directory, Avaya Phone system, server and network infrastructure.  ? Administer physical servers and virtual servers using Vmware ESXi  ? Responsible to maintain, test, and upgrade all company hardware and software.  ? Implemented a knowledge base from the ground up for all IT support areas.  ? Worked with Human Resources to implement a new employee on boarding process.  ? Centrally managed and deployed all company iPhones, and Android devices.  ? Managed all 3rd party vendor relations. ServiceChannel - New York, NY July 2015 to November 2016 Systems Engineer 2015 to 2016 Provide 1st, 2nd, and 3rd line IT support to over 300 employees both on site and remote.  ? Administer and Support Office 365 environment  ? Managed Upgrade of Firewall, Network Switches, Wireless Controller, and Wireless Access Points for NYC office. Provided  administration and support for Firewall, Network Switches, Wireless Controller, and Wireless Access Points for NYC office.  ? Managed Upgrade of PBX phone system into a cloud based soft phone system. Provided administration and support for phone  systems.  ? Implemented and Managed a 1st Line Helpdesk Support Team and Support Knowledge Base.  ? Implemented and Managed a cloud based Active Directory for all company computer resources.  ? Responsible for Design and Administration of client Active Directory Policies.  ? Responsible for Security Patch Management and Audits for all company server resources.  ? Work with business area contacts to test, integrate and deploy new software and hardware IBM Global Services, New Jersey September 2012 to April 2015 Systems Engineer 2012 to 2015 Supported over 10K employees for Spirit Airlines and Dupont  ? Participated in physical to virtual server migration for Dupont  ? Administer and support Windows Server environments.  ? Administer and support Microsoft Exchange Server.  ? Administer and Support IIS Web related services.  ? Administer and Support Active Directory.  ? Administer and support Blackberry Servers and Services.  ? Administer and maintain SCCM Server Infrastructure.  ? Administer SafeGuard Enterprise Encryption Database as Master Security Officer for Americas Region.  ? Work with business area contacts to test, integrate and deploy new software and hardware.  ? Participate in Mergers and Acquisitions Team projects.  ? Provide training and support to field technicians and Service Desk team members.  ? Represent IBM Support Team at client's Incident, Problem and Change Management meeting  ? Report all problems accurately and track them using incident management software.  ? Adhere to all ITIL best practices. Sandvik IT Services - Fair Lawn, NJ April 1999 to September 2012 Service Desk Specialist Sandvik IT Services 1999 to 2012 Provide first line telephone support to approximately 3000 internal and external users/customers for all IT related  incidents.  ? Report all problems accurately and track them using incident management software.  ? Troubleshoot and attempt first line fixes where applicable.  ? Assign appropriate priority to each incident.  ? Ensure that resolver group escalation is made as appropriate, and provide follow-up as required.  ? Manage all incidents according to the Incident Management Process.  ? Ensure that all Service Level Agreements are met or exceeded.  ? Function as User Administrator by creating new user accounts in various systems.  ? Act as liaison with external network and telecommunication vendors (Sprint, MCI, Siemens). SNC Support Team Lead 1999 to 2012 Provide second and third line support for Sandvik Network Client related software and hardware.  ? Administer and maintain SCCM Server Infrastructure.  ? Work with business area contacts to test, integrate and deploy new software and hardware.  ? Participate in Mergers and Acquisitions Team projects.  ? Provide training and support to field technicians and Service Desk team members.  ? Represent SNC Team at Incident, Problem and Change Management meetings.  ? Vet Service Desk candidates for technical knowledge and experience during interview process.  ? Evaluate reports, incidents, and trends to proactively improve the efficiency of the department and services performed.  ? Report all problems accurately and track them using incident management software.  ? Responsible for testing SNC software and hardware prior to client distribution.  ? Support PDA hardware devices and software.  ? Dispatcher for SNC Group incident queue. SNC Support Specialist 1999 to 2012 Provide second line support for Sandvik Network Client related software and hardware.  ? Report all problems accurately and track them using incident management software.  ? Responsible for testing SNC software and hardware prior to client distribution.  ? Support PDA hardware devices and software.  ? Dispatcher for SNC Group incident queue. Computer Operator 1999 to 2012 Back-up the Help Desk as needed, and support all Help Desk Services.  ? Open tickets for user problems.  ? Operating on-line and batch systems.  ? Activating and deactivating computer terminals.  ? Extensive contact with internal and external customers.  ? Back-up and restore daily and weekly databases.  ? Restoration of LAN files.  ? Monitor Sandnet WAN network. Computer Operator Cornwell Data Services, Inc - Paramus, NJ 1996 to 1999 Database maintenance for clients.  ? Utilize software programs to fulfill various requests from clients including count requests, rental fulfillment lists and various  printed reports. Computer Operator Alltel Corporation - Roseland, NJ 1994 to 1996 Operating on-line and batch systems.  ? Activating and deactivating computer terminals and communication lines.  ? Extensive contact with internal and external customers.  ? Back-up and restore daily and weekly databases.  ? Responsible for timely printouts to customers. Education Diploma in Computer Operations Bergen Community College - Paramus, NJ October 1994 Additional Information Software + Systems: SharePoint 2010, Active Directory, Exchange 2010, ProofPoint, Office 365, Windows Server 2003, 2008,  2012, 2016, 2019, Citrix, AWS, VMWare, Jira, Slack, Labtech, SQL, IIS, SCCM Configuration Manager, Citrix, Airwatch,  Blackberry Service Administration, MAC OS, Windows 2000, XP, Vista, 7, 10, NetIQ DRA, Lotus Notes 5.0 - 8.5, VPN  Secure Remote/Client, iPass, Unicenter Service Plus Service Desk, WinVNC, Attachmate Extra, CallXpress Voicemail  Administration, Tivoli Netview WAN system, Microsoft Office, Windows Mobile and Symbian OS, Apple/Android OS, SCCM  Client Center, Team Center, SafeGuard Enterprise Encryption, PBX, Google Mail/Apps, Symantec Endpoint,  ManageEngine/Desktop Central, Hyper V, Nutanix, Labtech Automate, ManageEngine. Sophos XG Firewall    Hardware: Desktop, laptop, and associated peripheral devices; ES-9000, IBM 4381, IBM S/390, AS/400 and associated  peripheral devices, which include IBM 3422, 3480, 3590 tape drives, IBM 6262 printers, and Tivoli LAN storage management;  Windows Mobile and Symbian devices.    Software Languages and Scripting: VB Script, Microsoft Powershell, Cobol, DOS/VSE, JECL, OS/VS1 Utilities, IDCAMS and  DOS/VSE Utilities.    Other: Microsoft Certified Professional for SharePoint 2010 Administration, Windows XP, SCCM 2007 Administration, and  Microsoft Powershell.