Operations Manager, IS Operations Manager, IS Operations Manager, IS - BJC HealthCare Swansea, IL Highly motivated professional with twenty years experience in computer systems administration, electronic medical records support, and telecommunications and telecommunications management who wants to support you in growing and supporting your business. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Operations Manager, IS BJC HealthCare - St. Louis, MO June 2018 to Present  ? Manage the telecom engineering and telecom technician staff.   ? Sixteen staff and six direct reports.   ? Oversee all phone system engineering, design, and support on the downtown academic campus and community hospitals.   ? Project, people, and budget management. Telecommunications Manager/ Systems Administrator Memorial Hospital - Belleville, IL June 2014 to December 2017  ? Managed telecom environment for Memorial Hospital Belleville, Memorial Hospital East, and Memorial Medical Group.   ? Responsible for data backup and server/software support in four-hundred server environment.   ? Improved communication plans from the departments to colleagues and patients.   ? Implemented Cisco Call Manager at Memorial Hospital East.   ? Began transition from Avaya to Cisco at Memorial Hospital Belleville.   ? Implemented Spok Mobile as secure-texting application.   ? Managed hospital operator staff. Assistant Administrator Family Physicians of O'Fallon - O'Fallon, IL June 2001 to June 2014  ? Maintained digital databases, physical, files, and area logs.   ? Maintained electronic medical software (Practice Partner) which contained fifty-thousand medical records.   ? Oversaw regular hardware and software upgrades.   ? Managed and resolved all telephone, facility, infrastructure, software, and computer problems.   ? HIPAA Privacy & Security Officer Education Bachelor of Science in Political Science Southern Illinois University Edwardsville - Edwardsville, IL 1999 Skills Cisco, Customer Service, Strategic Planning, Vmware, exchange Additional Information SKILLS    ? Project management ? Dependable  ? Stakeholder relations ? Natural leader  ? Results-oriented   ? Unsurpassed work ethic  ? Employee relations ? Organized  ? Complex problems ? Detail-oriented     analysis