Desktop Support Lead Desktop Support Lead Desktop Support Lead - UNISYS CORPORATION Atlanta, GA • Supported company users with Windows, Apple, and Macintosh assistance, fulfilling warranty hardware support requests with HP, Apple, Dell, Xerox, and other hardware vendors for parts procurement and service delivery.  • Supported a diverse range of databases and software, including installation, maintenance, and user access control.  • Administered databases such as Active Directory, Exchange, Great Plains, Secure Doc Disk encryption, Cisco AnyConnect and GoToMeeting or Adobe Connect meeting services.  • Provide on-site hardware support and repair and inventory control for company's computers or laptops Work Experience Desktop Support Lead UNISYS CORPORATION - Atlanta, GA February 2018 to Present • Provide IT support for multiple Omnicom companies for Unisys corporation,  • Windows 10 or MAC system upgrades, support or system re-imaging  • Provide computer, application, and phone support to resolve Paige help-desk tickets for users  • Work with multiple Omnicom IT departments in user problem resolution  • Work with vendors on computer or phone system repairs  • Deploy Cisco AnyConnect to multiple OMNICOM companies Windows and MAC computers  • Provide on-site support the Cisco phone system telecommuting team or local support for network team  • Omnicom companies I support in the Atlanta office for Unisys would be Omnicom Media Group, Omnicom, OMD, Hearts & Science, PHD, BBDO, One&All, Grizzard, Ketchum, Fleishman-Hillard, DDB, JLL, Porter Novelli System Administrator CHESTATEE REGIONAL HOSPITAL - Dahlonega, GA June 2017 to September 2017 • Active Directory user, computer, and printer administration and support via helpdesk requests  • HMS user administration and support of the hospitals HMS system via helpdesk requests  • Work with vendors on hospital equipment on patient monitoring tools as requested.  • Work with the hospital laboratory to implement equipment upgrades and installation of a virtual lab shuttle server to monitor Beckman Coulter ProServe, DxH600, Siemens Healthcare Sysmex CA660 Senior Systems Administrator CONSOLIDATED DATA SERVICES (CDS)/GRIZZARD/KETCHUM - Atlanta, GA April 2007 to March 2017 Network Operations Specialist  • Balanced technical support and network operations administration, definitively contributing to an improvement in the perception of the IT department by standardizing computers and strengthening system stability.  • Cultivated positive alliances with staff through 110% responsiveness and resolution of reported computer and IT issues.    Technical Support  • Produced, managed, and updated OMNICOM laptop and desktop system images, coordinating inventory control and readying them for assignment to new users or return to leasing companies.  • Generated quarterly virus definition reports on MAC and Windows computers.  • Support and repair all companies computer hardware or software problems    Network Operations Administration  • Active Directory System Administration to Created, enabled, and deactivated user accounts for the companies network and the Exchange email system,  • Coordinated hardware support on an older Avaya phone system, directly working with CDS staff on CISCO phone system support/administration. Enterprise Engineer PCM (SARCOM) - Cleveland, OH January 2004 to April 2008 • Led networking and operating system administration as well as design projects, capably managing VMWare virtual networks and server farms.  • Completed certifications in VMWare VCP, Novell, Microsoft, and CompTIA.  • Tapped for on-site assignments at a government agency, directly contributing to large-scale network, inventory, and desktop projects. Initiatives included firewall updates/documentation, network administration (Novell, Microsoft, and Linux), and VMWare ESX server farm and virtual server infrastructure.  • Executed multiple network and desktop upgrade/support projects from Windows networking to wireless network and VPN network setup projects for company clients. Education Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering in Computer Science WESTERN TECHNICAL COLLEGE - Los Angeles, CA 1987 Skills Desktop Support, Comptia, MAC, Service Desk, Active Directory, Macintosh, Tech Support