Automated Systems Manager Automated <span class="hl">Systems</span> Manager Automated Systems Manager - GRAYSLAKE AREA PUBLIC LIBRARY DISTRICT Wildwood, IL Work Experience Automated Systems Manager GRAYSLAKE AREA PUBLIC LIBRARY DISTRICT - Grayslake, IL March 2005 to Present • Manage and maintain the computers, servers and network infrastructure of the library, over four distinct networks.  • Help and train our staff to use and understand their computing resources.  • Evaluate the organization's technology use and needs to determine upgrades and procurement of hardware and software.  • Perform data backups and disaster recovery operations.  • Completely restructured the entire computing environment, implementing the grayslake.info domain, group policies and installed a corporate level email system. Further divided and segregated the network into four distinct segments to enhance security of the LAN, implementing two other domains in the public segments.  • Plan, coordinate and implement network security measures to protect data, software and hardware.  • Administer our Google G-Suite cloud application suite.  • Research new technologies by attending seminars, reading trade articles or taking classes. Implement new technologies as needed.  • Implement and provide technical support for voice services and equipment, such as private branch exchange, voice mail system and telecom services.  • Implemented major cost saving initiatives, which has kept the IT department staffing levels minimal, by reducing or eliminating support calls with self-correcting and error eliminating computer configurations.  • Actively contributed to creating and implementing two long range plans.  • Work with the management team to develop and interpret organizational goals, policies and procedures.  • Evaluate, propose and expend the organization's overall budget and automation budget each fiscal year.  • Substantially involved in three library expansion construction projects, gaining experience in the process and procedures needed to successfully see a construction project through from conception to completion.  • Oversaw successful fiber optic connectivity project from conception to completion, coordinating three entities in the process.  • Lead four large expenditure projects including research, negotiations, contracts and implementation. Projects included complete replacement and upgrade of building-wide HVAC control system, replacement of telephone system, and two rounds of copier replacement. Solicited input from end users during the process and ensured appropriate training was provided.  • Lead contributor to the conceptualization of the library's vision of the proposed makerspace, The Hub. Designed the positions, hired appropriate staff, and led the team through the planning, construction, and organization, successfully implementing this new service. The Hub opened in June of 2018  • Illinois Freedom of Information certified and one of three FOIA officers. Desktop Administrator / Computer Technician WAUKEGAN PUBLIC LIBRARY September 2000 to March 2005 • Managed and maintained the computing infrastructure of the library.  • Procured, configured and deployed the computers for use in the library and on the book mobiles.  • Supported and maintained the computing environment for the Lake County Literacy program housed at the library and the literacy satellite center.  • Configured and deployed new network servers and network services.  • Evaluated, proposed and expended the IT budget each fiscal year.  • Troubleshoot and corrected computer and network issues.  • Trained staff and public on the use of their computers and software in informal workshops and classes.  • Staffed the Computer Coach Reference desk daily to provide assistance and guidance of computer use to library users and staff. Education BA SOUTHERN NEW HAMPSHIRE UNIVERSITY - Manchester, NH July 2021 AAS in Computer Information Systems COLLEGE OF LAKE COUNTY - Grayslake, IL August 2007 Skills System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory Assessments Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ifsmeugpv49nmfoa Basic Computer Skills: PC — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/rb-bx7xhcesmzmyu Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.