IT Systems Administrator IT <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Systems Administrator Grand Haven, MI Work Experience IT Systems Administrator National Heritage Academies - Grand Rapids, MI May 2014 to Present ? Administrated and maintained Exchange Server 2010 email servers while planning and executing an e-mail migration into Microsoft Office 365.  ? Set up and configured an Exchange 2013 server for use as a hybrid server between on premise  Exchange and Office 365 Exchange Online services.  ? Planned and executed the migration of the company's e-mail systems from on premise Microsoft  Exchange into Microsoft Office 365 and instant communication platform Lync 2010 to Skype for Business Online.  ? Wrote scripts in Microsoft PowerShell to automate the assignment of Office 365 licensing and e-mail address creation for new employees. Also wrote scripts which disable Office 365 services  after an employee has left the company.  ? Wrote scripts to assist the Security team in quickly remediating threats to the company by changing  passwords and expiring Azure AD login tokens instantly and sending email notifications out afterward informing people of the actions taken.  ? Created a complex system of Exchange Online transport rules to protect user mailboxes from phishing attempts in lue of not having an email sanitation program in place.  ? Assisted the Legal and Special Education departments with eDiscovery requests by searching for emails related to cases and converting those emails into a PDF for easier submission to court  authorities and attorneys.  ? Wrote PowerShell scripts to assist the networking team in making mass changes to DNS entries  during a migration from one IP address range to a new set of public IP addresses.  ? Wrote a script to assist Networking team in connecting to multiple Cisco switches via SSH to relay  new commands quickly.  ? Learned how to program in Python and C# through online courses on Plural site.  ? Wrote integration programs using Python and C# to automate processes related to Office 365  administration, Google G Suite administration, Slack notifications, Security automation, Security  reporting and Dynamics CRM related workloads.  ? Wrote a Python program using Selenium to load test a corporate website used to collect  applications.  ? Assisted in the setup and administration of an Enterprise Agreement with Microsoft for our Azure  tenant.  ? Setup, assist and maintain a secure Azure environment by utilizing PowerShell for administration  and proper use of RBAC controls. Mobile Client Systems Specialist National Heritage Academies - Grand Rapids, MI May 2011 to May 2014 ? Learned and utilized Microsoft's scripting language PowerShell to create scripts which govern  imaging, domain joining and driver installation for HP laptops.  ? Managed and maintained all cellular devices within National Heritage Academies facilities.  ? Deployed over 200 cell phones to school administrators during the summer of 2012 in addition to supplying phones for normal administrative hiring and service center staff hires.  ? Assisted in acquiring and deploying mobile devices including Apple iPads, Apple iPod Touchs, and Google Chromebooks.  ? Utilized iPhone Configuration Utility and iPad Configurator to roll out Apple iPads to schools.  ? Managed Chromebooks through Google Apps for Education Chrome Management Console. Technology Support Technician National Heritage Academies - Grand Rapids, MI November 2007 to May 2011 ? Received calls from 67+ active charter schools concerning computing problems.  ? Used a ticketing system to track active requests for assistance within charter schools and service  center.  ? Worked with a wide variety of computer systems including desktops, laptops, tablet laptops, servers, smartphones and thin clients.  ? Troubleshot phone issues for VOIP and Analog phones.  ? Worked with HP to repair and replace broken HP equipment that was still under warranty.  ? Actively worked to troubleshoot problems involving software used within the school systems. This  includes school specific software, student information system software and Microsoft Office  software. Education Bachelor's in Computer Information Systems with an emphasis on Business Cornerstone University - Grand Rapids, MI January 2001 to December 2005 Skills Active directory, Devops, Dns, Exchange, Networking, .net, C#, Docker, Git, .net core, Python, Voip, Imaging, Linux, Excel, System Admin, System Administrator Links https://github.com/General-Gouda