Senior Systems Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Systems Administrator - Western Union Shrewsbury, MA Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator Western Union - Denver, CO March 2013 to Present 6.5 years    Current Employer: - Western Union LLC  Team: - infrastructure Operations and Cloud (IOC) Team  Duration From March 2013 To till date  Location Shrewsbury, MA ( Working remote from this location)  Title Senior Systems Administrator  Technology used  AWS cloud, APACHE servers, IBM WebSphere Application Servers, JBOSS EAP Servers, TOMCAT, Sybase Mobiliser, ADOBE AEM/CQ5, IBM BPMS Manager Advanced  Word Press, APACHE-FELIX OSGI container, Spring boot, IBM HTTP Server, Windows IIS web servers, SPLUNK, JIRA - Confluence, Ansible, UNIX SHELL programming, Windows scripting, IBM Tealeaf, TIBCO Active space, MySQL    ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES  Sreekanth is part of Infrastructure Operations and Cloud (IOC) team and has a broad spectrum of roles and responsibilities.    His main roles and responsibilities at Western Union are mentioned below    • Web/Application middleware Administration - He has successfully built multiple web application server containers which are live in production taking business traffic. He has designed IT web infrastructure for any new applications coming on board within different Business Units of the organization. This includes recommending appropriate web/application server container technologies, capacity planning of web app instances, load balancing and scalability solutions, security solutions etc. He improves application efficiency/response time by performance fine tuning web application containers for multiple web applications.  He was able resolve multiple production issues and provides root cause analysis with the main digital money transfer application for western union, www.westernunion.com. He has done installation, configuration, administration and performance fine tuning of various application server technologies like IBM WebSphere application servers, IBM Business process management/Portal servers, IBM HTTP Servers, APACHE-FELIX OSGI Containers, Sybase Mobiliser containers, Spring boot containers, TOMCAT app servers, JBOSS EAP servers on UNIX platform, IIS servers on windows platform. He has done TIBCO Active Space set up for handling user HTTP session management for the internet facing web applications. He collaborates with external partner companies like Akamai which provides content delivery globally for the internet facing applications in western union. He creates new application DNS URL's for hosting new applications partnering with networking /Active Directory teams. He recommends application infrastructure solutions for app load balancing, high availability, backend communications etc. Load balancing solutions like using F5 load balancers (GTM and LTM's) for load balancing web traffic coming across data centers and backend servers. He has automated repeat tasks using shell scripting and windows batch scripts, writing SFTP scripts to upload and download files from Sterling SFTP server which communicates with different banking clients. He started using Ansible to automate some of the deployment tasks. Setting up JDBC and ODBC connections from application servers to different types of databases like ORACLE, MS SQL, My SQL, DB2 etc.    • AWS cloud operations: - He was involved with migrating applications from on-premise to AWS cloud VPC's. He has done EC2 instance creations, changing the instance Type, creating and updating security groups, creating ALB's, NLB.s and ELB's. He has working securing URL's by creating SSL certs and Keys and importing them to the Amazon certificate Management (ACM) and assigning them to URL's hosted on Elastic Load balancers. He has created Elastic Container service (ECS) instances for deploying micro services on AWS and checking the logs using cloud watch. He worked on creating S3 buckets and moving data from on premise servers to the S3 buckets using the AWS CLI. He has a good understanding about AWS regions, Availability Zones (AZ's), Direct connect, AWS accounts, VPC's, Route 53 DNS service, NAT gateways, IAM roles etc. He has worked on application set up on cloud talking to backend with Oracle RDS, SQL server RDS set up.    • IT Security: - He builds proper security mechanisms for application servers and web server containers for multiple applications. Web and applications servers are secured with TLS 1.2 security protocols along with SSL private keys and public certificates encryption technologies.  He creates self-signed and CA signed certificates depending on the scope of the applications. He is well experienced in generating standalone and SAN SSL certificates. He generates CSR requests and get it CA signed and implements that on server side. He was able to secure applications transacting with sensitive customer data with highest level of security by implementing 2-way SSL communications between client and server. For data level encryption he created solutions based on GPG encryption algorithm and created private-public key pairs.  Successfully designed security groups in AWS cloud environments and implemented access control rules of opening firewalls across subnets and IP's on AWS.    • SPLUNK Administration: - Building new Splunk infrastructure which includes installation and configuration of Splunk search head servers, Splunk indexer servers, Heavy forwarders, Splunk  Universal forwarders, Deployment servers and License servers. Successfully completed the setup of 1.7 TB daily log ingestion SPLUNK environment set up.  Leading the migration project of OS system logs to Splunk SAAS cloud environment. Working with different application teams to on board application logs and database data to Splunk.  Identify the malicious IP address sources causing DDOS attacks on the internet application and providing those IP's to WAF to block them.  Created reports, dashboards and alerts in Splunk for different applications which are used for production incident reporting and problem resolutions.  Troubleshooting and resolving Splunk related issues. Have successfully done Splunk version upgrades from 5.x to 6.x, 7.x.    • JIRA and Confluence Administration: - He has done JIRA/Confluence migrations and version upgrades. Has worked on building the JIRA and confluence environment in western union digital BU. Works with support team to help them fixes issues with JIRA instances.  Setting up the MySQL database instance in the backend for JIRA systems. Has done JIRA user administration and JIRA integrations.    • Automation: - Has worked on automating multiple tasks using different types of scripting languages like Unix shell scripts, windows batch scripting etc. Successfully created SFTP automation scripts for business solution application to pull bank partner files from sterling SFTP server and feed to business application. Automated jobs to upload files to AWS S3 buckets are some of the examples. Automated java application code deployment process using jython (Java + Python ) scripting language.    • Data Center Migrations: - He has done multiple data center migration projects at western union. His achievements include successfully migrating all digital applications from HP charlotte/Plano data centers to Reston/Chicago data centers. He successfully completed Denver data center migrations moving application platforms from Denver DC to AWS cloud and Reston on premise Data centers.    • Forward and Reverse Proxy server administration: - He was successful in building different proxy solutions for applications across western union which needs to transact with multiple external partner/vendors. He implements proxy solutions to route inbound and outbound requests from the enterprise to various client and partners. He does the installation and configuration apache web servers and proxy servers in Western Union. Apache mod proxy modules and re-write modules are carefully used to come up with different proxy solutions. He writes various apache re-write rules for URL redirections (Ex: 301 OR 302 re-directs), reverse proxying to the backend servers using different re-write conditions.    • Content Management System Administration: - Installation and configuration of Adobe Experience Manager or CQ5. This includes setting up the Adobe Dispatcher servers, CQ5 Publishers and Author servers. He is also involved with content/code deployments to Publishers and publishing contents from Author. He also does configuration management using the system console. He also has experience in installing and working on Word Press servers along with MySQL database in the backend. PEGA / WebSphere System Architect/ Administrator John Hancock Insurance - Boston, MA July 2009 to March 2013 USA  Client Project LTC Shared Service AVM  Duration July 2009 to March 2013  Location Boston , MA    Role PEGA / WebSphere System Architect/ Administrator  Technology used  PegaRULES Process Commander (PRPC) versions 6.3 SP1, 6.1 SP1 & v5.3, IBM Websphere Application Server ND v6.1 & 7.0, IBM HTTP Server v6.1 & v7.0, SOLARIS 10, Windows server 2003 & Windows server 2008, MS SQL Server 2008/2005, UNIX SHELL programming, Windows scripting, Microsoft Integration & Reporting Services, Internet Information Services (IIS) version 6.0    PROJECT DESCRIPTION:  This project provides middleware Infrastructure support which includes IT system architecture design, requirement analysis, system implementation, administration & maintenance support of WebSphere application server Network Deployment and Pega RULES Process Commander (PRPC) which provides server runtime environment to set of Long-Term Care (LTC) business applications. It also includes the providing incident & problem management support for client's IT infrastructure production system. Long Term Care (LTC) system has got several applications running on PEGA and WebSphere application server infrastructure.    CLIENT DESCRIPTION:  John Hancock is a unit of Manulife Financial Corporation (the Company), a leading Canadian-based financial services group serving millions of customers in 19 countries and territories worldwide. Operating as Manulife Financial in Canada and in most of Asia, and primarily as John Hancock in the United States, the Company offers clients a diverse range of financial protection products and wealth management services through its extensive network of employees, agents and distribution partners.The John Hancock unit, through its insurance companies, comprises one of the largest life insurers in the United States. John Hancock offers a broad range of financial products and services, including life insurance, fixed and variable annuities, fixed products, mutual funds, 401(k) plans, long-term care insurance, college savings, and other forms of business insurance    ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:  Role: - PEGA / WebSphere Middleware Administrator & Architect    Responsible for building Web IT infrastructure for critical client applications from development, system integration testing, UAT, Staging to Production environments. Sreekanth is responsible for building the PEGA (PRPC 6.1) business process management infrastructure for Customer Support Center (CSC) application developed by client. He has done the upgrade of PEGA Rules Process Commander (PRPC) systems which is the Business Process Management (BPM) rules engine used by client, from current 5.3 version to the new PEGA 6.1 SP1 version. He takes care of building the new PEGA 6.1 architecture, creating PEGA databases, loading the PEGA 6.1 rule bases, deploying the new PEGA code and all other IT infrastructure configuration set up necessary for the PEGA upgrade. He also takes care of setting up and configuring the WebSphere 7.0 application server environment on all regions from development to Production, which provides a runtime server platform for PEGA 6.1 applications. Sreekanth supports the integration between critical business applications which makes applications to communicate real time, with each other to achieve certain business goals by the client. One example is that, he played a major role in setting up the Web service & MS SQL Linked server components to integrate Life Pro policy admin application with Customer Support Center (CSC) PEGA application. He played major role in setting up real time communication between CARE group admin application and CSC PEGA application. This is done by CSC application making a CLR SQL stored procedure call to CARE application through the DB2 client- ODBC system data source set up and establishing connectivity to DB2 Mainframe database used by CARE application.Sreekanth plays an active role in the on-going PEGA based applications migration project which moves all PEGA based applications from the current set of server hardware to new set of server hardware. Some of the client's business applications which he migrates includes PROMISE application , which is an insurance claims processing application & Customer Support Center( CSC) application which is used by call center customer support representative for the Long Term Care (LTC ) business division under John Hancock. Sreekanth does the deployment of java/j2ee application's complied code to IBM Websphere application severs which runs client applications like Promise, Customer Support Center (CSC) etc. on different environments like Development, Testing, Staging and Production. Application code deployment support is provided for five crucial applications used by the Long Term Care division of client business. He also takes care of the PEGA application code deployment on production region for all PEGA based applications used by client.    Sreekanth recommends client with better IT infrastructure solutions like horizontal and vertical application server clustering for implementing business continuity planning much more efficiently and cost effective way. He does the designing and set up of new Websphere application server clusters and enables session replication feature for cluster members to provide advanced application failover capability and helps to maintain a very high level of uptime for critical business applications running on production environment. He proposes and implements cost cutting measures to avoid monetary loss for the client. He provides value addition to the client's business by proactively finding potential application issues and fixing those issues, well in advance to avoid business outages. Sreekanth does the troubleshooting and resolves highly critical production issues with IBM Websphere application server, PEGA RULES and IBM HTTP Web servers which runs several client business applications like Customer support center, Promise claims processing application and Common Security Applications. He performs various system administrative tasks on IBM Websphere application server Version 6.1 which provides a run-time environment for different custom-made client applications deployed to Development, Testing, Staging and Production environments. He is involved in configuring secure web communication between client browser and WebSphere application server by implementing SSL based server-side security certificate for different applications used in Long Term care division. He checks the validity of SSL server security certificates and timely renewal of those certificates before expiry. He writes complex wsadmin scripts in jython language to automate different Websphere application server administration tasks like application code installation, configuring application's database connectivity using JNDI data source names etc. He is engaged in the design of server security documents and implementation of different server related security policies like folder access permissions for domain users on different applications running on environments like Production, Staging, Testing and development. He monitors and supports highly critical batch cycle jobs which run one time every week night from Monday to Friday. He does the performance fine tuning of various parameter settings related to IBM Websphere application server, web servers and PEGA to provide a high performance quality to client's application websites. Some examples for those parameters which are fine-tuned are Web container thread pool count, Java virtual machine heap size, JDBC database connection pool size etc.  He does the performance monitoring of multiple Java applications using IBM Tivoli performance viewer tool reports the performance of various parameters like used & free database connections in connection pool, heap size usage by Websphere java process, application response time etc. He handles production issue related to PEGA based applications running on WebSphere and generating java heap dumps for application memory leak issues and java core dumps for hung thread issues on Production servers and analyzes those dumps using appropriate IBM dump analyzer tools to find the root cause of different application issues. He provides recommendations to application development team for developing more user friendly, secure and high performance enterprise applications which helps the client business. Sreekanth is involved in doing the capacity planning for five applications managed under Long Term Care division of client business, which are getting migrated to a new set of server hardware. He works with different client teams like software development team, release engineering team and Quality Assurance teams for fixing application related issues as quickly as possible.    Project - II  Employer Cognizant Technology Solutions  Client Sentry Insurance, USA  Client Project Middleware Infrastructure Support & Integration Technology Specialist Cognizant Technology Solutions - Teaneck, NJ October 2006 to March 2013 6.5 years    Previous Employer: - Cognizant Technology Solutions  Team: - IT infrastructure Services (IT IS) Team  Duration From OCT 2006 To MARCH 2013  Employer Location Teaneck , NJ  Title Technology Specialist  Technology used  APACHE, IBM HTTP servers, IBM WebSphere Application Servers, Linux, Windows, IBM Portal servers, PEGA RULES Process Commander (PRPC),  UNIX SHELL programming, Windows scripting, Internet Information Services (IIS).    As Technology specialist role Sreekanth has worked at different client locations which are IT consulting clients for Cognizant. More details on each client projects he worked on during his employment with cognizant are given below.  Project - I WebSphere administrator /JBOSS administrator SIFY Technologies Limited - Madison, WI April 2008 to June 2009 Location Madison, WI, USA.    Technology used  Websphere Application Server v6.1 ND , JBOSS Enterprise v 4.3, IBM HTTP Server v6.1, Red Hat Enterprise Linux Server 5.3, Windows server 2003 & Windows server 2008, HP service center, Sitescope, HP open view, UNIX SHELL scripting, Jython wsadmin scripting    PROJECT DESCRIPTION:  Middleware Infrastructure support includes design, analysis, implementation and maintenance of Websphere application server Network Deployment and JBOSS Enterprise server infrastructure. We need to maintain 1 front end Web application and around 9 Web service components which the main application interacts with. We need to build server setup and deploy J2EE applications to different regions like Dev, Staging, QA and Production.    CLIENT DESCRIPTION:  Sentry Insurance was founded in 1904 by members of the Wisconsin Retail Hardware Association to provide quality insurance for its members.    Today, Sentry is one of the largest and strongest mutual insurance companies in the United States offering a full line of insurance coverage's for businesses, families and individuals. Rated A+ by A.M. Best and headquartered in Stevens Point, Wisconsin, Sentry has assets of $9.35 billion and a policyholder surplus of $2.5 billion.    ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:  Role: - WebSphere administrator /JBOSS administrator  Responsibilities    Sreekanth is responsible for the analysis and design of Middleware infrastructure built on IBM WebSphere Products for J2EE applications. He needs to do installation, administration, troubleshooting of IBM Websphere application server ND version 6.x running on Development, Testing, Quality assurance and Production regions. He needs to provide on call production support for websphere application servers. He also takes care of configuration of websphere cluster setup and setting up JDBC datasource for applications. He needs to do application code deployment to app servers on all regions. He needs to set up administrative and application security and implements secure communication channel for application using SSL certificates and basic HTTP authentication. He is also involved with some of the project management activities, client coordination and coordination among various groups in development and QA team leads. He needs to support performance monitoring and fine tuning of IBM WebSphere Application Servers on Dev, Staging, QA and Production regions. He does automation of admin activities using wsadmin jython scripting language and UNIX shell programming language.  He did the migration of Websphere V6.1 applications to JBOSS enterprise application server version 4.3.He is also responsible for setting up JBOSS application server environment for new applications. He has done installation, configuration, code deployment and maintenance of JBOSS application servers also.    Project - III  Employer Cognizant Technology Solutions  Client Name MetLife Insurance, USA  Client Project Web Infrastructure and Design Support  Duration October 2006 to April 2008  Locations Boston, MA- USA    Technology used  Websphere Application Server ND v 5.x & 6.x, iplanet web server 6.0 SP7, Siteminder Web Agent 6, IBM HTTP Server 5.x,6.x, AIX 5.x, SOLARIS , Remedy tool, WINDOWS SERVER 2003, IBM Tivoli performance viewer    PROJECT DESCRIPTION:  Web Infrastructure and Design (WID) team activities include design, analysis and maintenance of Web Infrastructure for Auto & Home, Individual & Institutional Line of business. WID includes product installation, version upgrades, performing fail over tests, performance tuning, security enhancements and engineering activities.    CLIENT DESCRIPTION:  MetLife, Inc. is a leading provider of insurance and financial services with operations throughout the United States and the Latin America, Europe and Asia Pacific regions. Through its domestic and international subsidiaries and affiliates, MetLife, Inc. reaches more than 70 million customers around the world and MetLife is the largest life insurer in the United States (based on life insurance in-force). The MetLife companies offer life insurance, annuities, auto and home insurance, retail banking and other financial services to individuals, as well as group insurance, reinsurance and retirement & savings products and services to corporations and other institutions    ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:  Role: - WebSphere administrator  Responsibilities    Sreekanth was responsible for doing websphere Enterprise Application code deployments to application servers. He is involved in the analysis, design & implementation of Web infrastructure which includes installation, upgrade and fix pack installs, administration and performance tuning of IBM WebSphere Application Server 5.x/6.x. He also needs to take care of the installation and administration of iplanet web servers and IBM HTTP Servers running at DMZ zones. He needs to do the installation and configuration of Siteminder web agent for new applications. He needs to take care of the JVM and cluster environment builds and Websphere plug-in management.  He is responsible for resolving any websphere application server or iplanet web server related issues at Development, integration, Quality Assurance, Disaster Recovery and Production environments for the client web infrastructure. He needs to support the performing fail over tests, stress and performance testing of J2EE application at Quality assurance region. He needs to do incident analysis/resolution, root cause analysis of issue and implement changes to the system using tools like Remedy. He needs to do security implementation for applications and is also involved in the engineering activities. He is also involved with client co-ordination for the websphere team which works on onsite - offshore model.    Previous Employer: Sify Technologies Limited  Team: - IT infrastructure Services (IT IS) Team  Duration FEB 2005 to September 2006  Employer Location CHENNAI , INDIA  Title Systems Engineer  Technology used  SOLARIS, SUN Cluster, IBM Tivoli Access Manager ( TAM ), Sun One Web server, Sun One Directory server, WebSphere Application Server 5.x,WEBLOGIC application server 8, COGNOS report server, WS FTP servers, WINDOWS SERVER 2003, VERITAS NetBackup    As Systems Engineer Sreekanth has worked at different client projects which are IT consulting clients for SIFY. More details on each client projects he worked on during his employment with SIFY are given below.  Project - I    Employer Name SIFY Technologies Limited Systems Engineer SIFY Technologies Limited February 2005 to September 2006 II Floor, TIDEL Park, No.4, Rajiv Gandhi Salai, Taramani Chennai - 600 113, India February 2005 September 2006 1 year and 7 months GM Infrastructure Management for General Motors - Chennai, Tamil Nadu February 2005 to September 2006 India.  Client General Motors (GM) , USA  Technology used  SOLARIS, SUN Cluster, IBM Tivoli Access Manager ( TAM ), Sun One Web server, Sun One Directory server, WebSphere Application Server 5.x,WEBLOGIC application server 8, COGNOS report server, WS FTP servers, WINDOWS SERVER 2003, VERITAS NetBackup    PROJECT DESCRIPTION:  The project mainly includes design and setting up the IT infrastructure for the client application and maintains the IT infrastructure. This involves maintaining all servers related to marketing operations web site for General Motors.  CLIENT DESCRIPTION:  General Motors Corp is one of the world's largest automakers, was founded in 1908, and today manufactures cars and trucks in 34 countries. With its global headquarters in Detroit, GM employs 244,500 people in every major region of the world, and sells and services vehicles in some 140 countries.  In 2008, GM sold 8.35 million cars and trucks globally under the following brands: Buick, Cadillac, Chevrolet, GMC, GM Daewoo, Holden, HUMMER, Opel, Pontiac, Saab, Saturn, Vauxhall and Wuling. GM's largest national market is the United States, followed by China, Brazil, the United Kingdom, Canada, Russia and Germany.    ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:  Role: - Middleware Systems Administrator  Responsibilities    Sreekanth was responsible for carrying out installations, upgrades and recompilations on production systems. He needs to set up of application server nodes, JDBC data sources, virtual hosts for new java/j2ee applications. He needs to maintain the Tivoli Access Manager, security server of client environment. He is also responsible for managing the COGNOS report server and WS FTP servers in the application environment. He takes care of the administration, performance tuning and configuration of IBM WebSphere Application Server 5.x, WEBLOGIC application server v 8.x. and SUN ONE web servers. He needs to resolve all the Websphere/Weblogic application server related issues within pre-defined timelines. He is also responsible for the design and implementation of backup policies using VERITAS Netbackup tool. He also needs to carry out periodic Vulnerability Analysis scan using Nessus software. He needs to maintain and update project documentation    Project - II  Employer Name SIFY Technologies Limited  Project Title Infrastructure Management for Corporation Service Company Corporation Service Company (CSC) - Chennai, Tamil Nadu February 2005 to September 2006 India.  Client Corporation Service Company (CSC), USA  Technology used  SOLARIS, REDHAT ENTERPRISE LINUX, WEBLOGIC application server version 8 sp7, Oracle application server( OAS ) , iplanet web servers, Apache web servers    PROJECT DESCRIPTION:  Infrastructure Management project includes management of all Weblogic application servers and oracle application servers of client IT infrastructure which mainly runs on LINUX and SOLARIS operating systems. The project mainly includes the administration of middleware application servers and the web presentation layer of client IT infrastructure  CLIENT DESCRIPTION:    Corporation Service Company has been the standard for delivering outstanding service and innovative technology for the corporate legal community since 1899. They have developed a comprehensive suite of services that help legal professionals identify and mitigate risk. Corporation Service Company is a privately held organization headquartered in Wilmington, Delaware U.S.A., leads the industry in both service and technology. CSC is able to offer services in every U.S. state and county, and many international jurisdictions.    ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:  Role: - Middleware Administrator (Primary Role) LINUX System Administrator (Secondary Role)  Responsibilities    Sreekanth was responsible for the installation and administration of WEBLOGIC application server, Oracle application server and Apache web servers. He needs to do java code deployments to the application servers. He is also involved with Incident management & root cause analysis of WEBLOGIC application server issues. He needs to do server log monitoring to check for error messages and Intrusion detection. He has played a major role in Implementation of RHN updates in REDHAT LINUX servers.  He did the system administration of LINUX operating system. He did the install and security hardening of LINUX servers. He needs to do system user management activities like creation, deletion and modification of the users implementing password policies He needs to write bash shell scripting to automate some of the admin activities Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science and Engineering in Duration COCHIN UNIVERSITY OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY - Kochi, Kerala 2000 to 2004 Skills Application server, Content management, Docker, Scripting, Aix, Apache, Linux, Shell programming, Solaris, Unix, Unix shell, Iis, Security, Soa, Tomcat, Web server, Websphere, Ms sql server, Ms sql server 2008, Sql server Additional Information Technical Skills  Application Servers  System administration skills following web and application servers,  IBM WebSphere Application server ND, JBOSS EAP version, Jetty, Tomcat server, Apache web servers , Felix OSGI, Sybase Mobiliser 5.x , Spring boot containers, IIS servers    DEVOPS Ansible, knowledge in Docker containers  Web Servers /Proxy servers  Core administration skills of following web servers, Apache 2.4v, 2.2v, IBM HTTP SERVER 8.x 7.x,6.x, 5.x, IIS web server 7.x, 6.x, Apache forward and reverse proxy setup/administration    Log Analytics Splunk Administration  Cloud Amazon Web Service (AWS) cloud administration  Security  SSL certificate and Key management, TLS 1.2, GPG key generation and encryption technology, Vulnerability Analysis scan using Nessus software, AWS security group administration    Business Process Management tools IBM Business Process Management System Advanced (BPMS), PEGA RULES Process Commander (PRPC)  JIRA /Confluence System administration of Atlassian JIRA and Confluence products  Content Management ADOBE CQ5 and Adobe Experience manager AEM, Word Press  Operating Systems  System admin skills on REDHAT ENTERPRISE LINUX, SOLARIS, AIX 5.x, WINDOWS SERVER 2008, WINDOWS SERVER 2012 R2 , Windows server 2016    Databases Level 1 admin skills on MYSQL, MS SQL Server 2008 & 2016, Couchbase DB  Programming Languages / Scripting automation  Programming skills on JAVA, Unix Shell Programming, Jython (Java + python ) , wsadmin scripting, C programming & Knowledge about J2EE standards and Web service / SOA concepts    Messaging Administration of Q-mail exchange server & Java Messaging Service (JMS)  Backup & Monitoring Tools  VERITAS NetBackup, UniCenter, IBM Tivoli Performance viewer, Mercury Probe, Site scope, HP open view, IBM Tealeaf, Dynatrace    IT service management tools Skilled on using HP Service Manager, HP Project and Portfolio Management Center, Cherwell service management