Camp Pendleton, CA Platoon Sergeant/Data systems administrator Camp Pendleton, CA Platoon Sergeant/Data <span class="hl">systems</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span> Camp Pendleton, CA Platoon Sergeant/Data systems administrator McKinney, TX Transitioning veteran seeking to start a career as a Windows system administrator after serving 4  honorable years in the US Marines as a data systems and network administrator. Proficient at  managing servers and systems in a 24/7 active environment, meeting deadlines and working  under stressful conditions. Able to work both independently and collaborate as a team. Work Experience Camp Pendleton, CA Platoon Sergeant/Data systems administrator United States Marine Corps - Camp Pendleton, CA October 2018 to June 2019 Successfully managed a network of 51 servers across 2 domains, to include VSANs, multiple  sites, and 3125 active directory objects. Intelligently delegated Marines under my charge according to their weaknesses and strengths to ensure zero down time for the duration of my stay  in the Marine Corps. Managed and created group policy objects to enhance the user experience.  Able to intelligently speak about and explain systems related topics to both higher ups and subordinates with no prior training in a language they would understand. Kuwait, Iraq, Syria, Data systems administrator April 2018 to October 2018 Managed a network of 300 users across two domains in a deployed environment to include  Windows 10 machines, Cisco phones, and classified secret hard drives across 3 countries as one of two Data systems administrators. Held a predominantly end user support role to ensure all  users could receive important messages in a timely manner and all systems were up to date to  ensure compliance with security standards for both Middle East domains. Able to work in a high  stress environment and work long hours to ensure job completion. CA Data systems and network administrator Camp Pendleton, CA Data - Camp Pendleton, CA April 2016 to April 2018 As a new Marine, adapted and learned quickly with minimal training. Managed both Cisco  devices and Windows systems to provide services to Marines for months at a time with zero  downtime. First Marine in the unit to create a storage area network for two domains that included  high availability failover for the NetApp systems on hand. Often worked extra hours in order to learn the job from my seniors. Education High school or equivalent Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, VMWARE, DNS, EXCHANGE Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: Sergeant Additional Information SKILLS  • Windows Server 2008-2016 • Cisco OS  • Microsoft Exchange 2010-2016 • NetApp Systems  • VMWare ESXi 5.5-6.7 • Windows PowerShell  • Group policy management • DNS  • VCenter Server • Active Directory  • Windows 7-10 • Active secret clearance