Domain Administrator - Associate Technology Director Domain <span class="hl">Administrator</span> - Associate Technology Director Domain Administrator - Systems Engineer Carmichael, CA My background in Information Technology is extensive and diverse. I have taken great pride in building and maintaining networks as well as providing excellent support for my end users, management staff and vendors. My resume outlines a very diverse history of my network support experience. Additionally, I take great pride in the work I do and the services I provide. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Domain Administrator - Associate Technology Director Frenchtown School District - Frenchtown, MT March 2013 to April 2019 Responsible for all network & server upgrades, migrations, administration and implementations. Support and configurations of 800 plus PC's. Responsible for a VMWare high availability network, upgrades and SAN administration as well as host systems and infrastructures. Responsible for building and deploying KACE 2000 images, KACE systems upgrades, configurations and support. Responsibilities also included POS systems for school cafeterias, network backup systems, managed switches updates and configurations, wireless support, Smart Board technologies implementation, configuration and support, support and implementation of chrome book's, iPads, cell phones and laptops. Support and administration of phone and voicemail systems. Implementation and support of Exchange server 2013. Upgrades and support of various software suites needed for students, teachers and faculty including Office 2013 running on Win 7 and Win 10 PC's. Support of client request via an online ticketing service to quickly respond to clients needs. Multi-Site campus with travel required to meet with and support teachers and administrative staff. Meet with and support various vendor's equipment to configure and test for various systems to maintain and run the schools. Support of all and any other equipment, implementations and configurations for technology that was presented to me during the course of the day. Domain Administrator - Systems Engineer Missoula Aging Services - Missoula, MT October 2012 to April 2019 Responsible for planning, designing, implementing and managing a multi-site VMWare High availability network to replace an old and aging network and joining two sites together to share network resources. Implementation, configuration and support of several SQL servers, Exchange server, Lync server and NEC call accounting server for a new in-house call center. Implementation and management of a RemoteApp & terminal server for remote users and thin client connectivity for the remote sites. Implementation, upgrades and support of several software packages including MIP accounting software packages. Implementation and support of VPN technologies for site to site connectivity utilizing Sonicwall technology. Responsible for client configurations, training and support to end users for remote client access from remote devices. Upgrades, configurations and support of network infrastructures supporting several remote offices. Technical support with vendors for software upgrades, implementations and patches needed for all systems. Planning and implementation of new phone systems and call accounting systems to support a newly implemented call center. Support and implementations of all else that is required to keep the IT department running smoothly and with no downtime. Created and maintained documentation for everything and anything IT. Answered trouble tickets to support a combined staff of approximately 70 employees. Interactions with management teams on various technology issues while implementing best practices to roll out technologies needed to support staff and clients. Maintained and monitored communications lines, public DNS records and SSL certificates and worked closely with accounting staff for IT related billing issues. Also implemented and maintained cell phones, iPads and Laptops for remote communications when employees were out in the field.  Domain Administrator - Systems Engineer Advanced Machinging & Tooling - Poway, CA March 2001 to October 2011 IT Technical Engineering, implementation and support for a manufacturing company specializing in the aerospace industry. Maintained, administered and upgraded an existing Novell network while planning a rollout migration to a Windows server environment in preparation for a new company software package. Implemented, administered and supported shop floor automation software for communications between CAD systems and production machines. Upgraded, administered and maintained phone systems and all infrastructure systems within the building including firewalls, switches and communications lines. Implemented and supported a co-location disaster recovery site utilizing double-take software for live stream data updates from the production systems. Support of management and staff for everything and anything IT. Support and purchases of iPads, cell phones and offsite email systems for the staff. Support of wireless environment for staff and shop floor systems. Maintained and upgraded backup systems for off-site data retention.  Domain Administrator Price Club, PriceCostco, Price Entities, PriceSmart & the Price Group November 1992 to October 2011 I worked for many different divisions of the Price Companies as follows;     I started with the Price Club corporate offices working in AS400 operations supporting our departments and warehouses throughout the United States. I worked with and supported our RPG programmers and IBM staff for systems maintenance and programming issues during production. Our 7/24 department ran production and supported staff and warehouses with any and all issues. I transferred over to our AS400 Accounting programming department to support our programming staff and accounting department users and did some RPG programming before being asked to transfer over to the Microsystems department during the PriceCostco merge. I was responsible for the Optika imaging systems which interfaced with our accounting software packages that ran on the AS400 systems. I also assisted in a Novell to Windows Server during my time in this department. A short time later the two companies de-merged and I was asked to move to the main Microsystems support center to assist as employees left for the Washington location. My duties kept everything IT running for the department as services transferred out of the building and to assist employees with all the data needed for their move. I was then asked to join the newly formed company called PriceSmart which provided warehouse clubs in the international market. I started up and managed the Microsystems department for the new company. I worked with other departments to roll out equipment and needed IT infrastructures as well as continued support in AS400 operations support. I was responsible for ordering and configuring new equipment to be shipped to new warehouses which included server implementations, PC workstations and configurations, POS systems and communications equipment. I also supported and maintained the existing Price Club Realestate division and planned a major upgrade of their IT systems in preparation to sell off the existing company. This included traveling to east coast offices to prepare the sites for the technology upgrades. At this time I was also involved in building a new network for The Price Group offices located in La Jolla CA where I worked for the next 10 years managing, building and growing a large network that eventually grew to support 3 sites. The Price Group had a charities division, a revitalization division and real estate division in which I supported and implemented all of their IT needs. Prior to exiting Calif I refreshed the systems with a new Hyper V virtual network. Travel to sites was required in this job as well as support of many and all employees and equipment.  Education Associate in Business Mesa Community College - San Diego, CA Various Windows Server & networking class certifications San Diego, CA Intro to Linux Systems San Diego, CA Associate in Computer Science Mesa Community College - San Diego, CA Skills AS400 (7 years), NETWORKING (10+ years), DATABASE (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), QUICKBOOKS, Vmware (8 years), System Administrator (10+ years), Active Directory (10+ years), Powershell (6 years), Management (10+ years), Exchange Server (10+ years), PC Support (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ June 2003 to Present CompTIA Network+ August 2004 to Present Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) April 2004 to Present MCP ID#3162047 Additional Information I have been involved in many training classes during my career in the IT field. I have a folder of certificates that I am happy to share with you upon request. I subscribe to many technical podcast and learning programs to keep myself up to date in the field. I also use my clients request to familiarize myself with software they may be using or wanting to use in the field. I apply all best practice procedures in the networks I have designed and maintained. I also take great pride in working with my users, vendors and management teams and I am very self motivated to get my work done to a very satisfactory level.