Technical Support and Services Technical Support and Services Jerome, AZ I currently hold a degree in Information Technology, with a concentration in Network Administration. I have acquired certifications in the various branches of technology, balancing study with experience to build a well rounded skill set. I consistently strive to expand my technical ability, and seek out opportunities that challenge me to grow professionally. I am comfortable working within a team setting, but thrive at coordinating and completing tasks on an individual basis. I am seeking a position where I can develop my technical aptitude while offering dedication and enthusiasm to an employer. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technical Support and Services Dogentech, LLC May 2011 to Present Provide device repair and computer services  ? Displayed courtesy and strong interpersonal skills with all customer interactions.  ? Maintained composure and patience in face of difficult customer interactions.  ? Researched issues on various computer systems to resolve complaints and answer inquiries.  ? Provide hardware repair, including iPads, iPhones, Laptops, Desktops. IT Administrator Sedona Public Library July 2016 to June 2019 Develop and recommend strategies for the integrity, security, and backup of all data and information stored on the network.  ? Manage the administration of the LAN/WAN, and supervise the computer information networks in all buildings, including; troubleshooting, loading, and updating software, assigning user access levels, and scheduling maintenance.  ? Assess problems encountered by staff and patrons using various computer systems  ? Coordinate the implementation and maintenance of all automated software systems that run on the network, including the student records program, library automation program and building financial programs.  ? Manage communication with appropriate vendors for additional assistance and services when required.  ? Coordinate orientation and training of library staff in library related automation systems and services.  ? Manage testing and evaluation of hardware and software products and make recommendations for purchase and use. Systems Administrator SEDONA PINES RESORT - Sedona, AZ January 2016 to July 2016 Develop and recommend policies for the responsible use of all network services in conjunction with the Director of Technology.  ? Develop and recommend strategies for the integrity, security, and back-up of all data and information stored on the network.  ? Research, recommend and purchase network software/hardware in conjunction with the Director of Technology.  ? Administer and supervise the computer information networks in all buildings, including; troubleshooting, loading, and updating software, assigning user access levels, and scheduling maintenance.  ? Manage the installation, maintenance and repair of all wiring and electronics that deliver network services, including routers, switches, hubs, bridges, and servers. Systems Administrator Nineveh-Hensley-Jackson School Corporation - Trafalgar, IN June 2013 to October 2015 Administer and supervise the computer information networks in all buildings district wide, including; troubleshooting, loading, and updating software, assigning user access levels, and scheduling maintenance.  ? Coordinate the implementation and maintenance of all automated software systems that run on the network, including the student records program, library automation program and building financial programs.  ? Manage the installation, maintenance and repair of all wiring and electronics that deliver network services, including routers, switches, hubs, bridges, and servers.  ? Establish and maintain the computer e-mail system and manages users and storage for all e-mail accounts.  ? Develop and recommend policies for the responsible use of all network services in conjunction with the Director of Technology.  ? Develop and recommend strategies for the integrity, security, and back-up of all data and information stored on the network.  ? Manage and updates the "filtering" system that is used to create student safe access to the Internet.  ? Maintain and support the Digital Video Security Camera System in all district buildings.  ? Research, recommend and purchase network software/hardware in conjunction with the Director of Technology.  ? Installs new and repaired computer technology that is brought into district schools.  ? Respond to daily trouble tickets from District staff/teachers.  ? Repair all computer systems and related electronic equipment. Replaces hardware such as disk drives, printers, cables, projectors, etc. in conjunction with the Technology Operations Manager Product Selector/Shipping, ALDI inc March 2005 to September 2009 Maintained accurate stock records and schedules  ? Supervised material flow, storage and order fulfillment.  ? Selected products for specific routes according to pick sheets  ? Unloaded, picked, staged and loaded products for shipping.  ? Conducted monthly, quarterly and yearly inventories of warehouse stock. Education Bachelor of Science in education Western Governors University - Indianapolis, IN 2016 Associate of applied science in Computer information technology Ivytech community college 2012 Skills Active Directory (7 years), Vmware (7 years), Windows 7 (7 years), Windows Server (7 years), Network Administration (6 years), TCP/IP (7 years), Virtualization (7 years), Mac OS X (7 years), Linux (5 years), Windows 10 (3 years), IOS (6 years), Cisco (5 years), Fortinet (6 years), Networking (7 years), Network Cabling (4 years), Desktop Support (6 years), Help Desk (5 years), Firewalls (5 years), Server Administration (6 years), Technical Support, Mac, Windows, access, Customer Service, Mac, Microsoft Office, Technical Support, Windows, access, security, Javascript Awards Certificate of Achievement 2012-05 Collegiate Assessment of Academic Proficiency; Writing Skills Phi Theta Kappa Honor Society 2010-04 Academic Excellence; Maintaining a GPA of 3.8 or higher throughout college Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) August 2012 to Present Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist (MCTS) August 2012 to Present Microsoft Specialist December 2015 to Present CompTIA Security+ February 2014 to February 2017 Cisco Certified Entry Networking Technician (CCENT) June 2014 to June 2017 CIW Web Design Specialist October 2012 to Present CompTIA A+ December 2012 to December 2015 Network+ Certification December 2011 to Present Certificate in Network Administration December 2011 to Present Certificate in PC Support & Administration December 2011 to Present Technical Certificate in Computer Information Technology May 2012 to Present Driver's License