VP;Information Security Specialist VP;Information Security Specialist Jacksonville, FL Well rounded, resourceful & experienced IT professional. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience VP;Information Security Specialist Bank of America - Jacksonville, FL May 2012 to Present Personnel Leadership  Manage and provide direction to the Infrastructure personnel and provide performance feedback and coaching to grow the team’s skills.   Set and adjust priorities effectively; remove barriers and act with an appropriate sense of urgency.   Direct job duties and work responsibilities for support positions. Participate in candidate interviewing to fill open positions.  Delegate and review project work to senior level team leads as other Infrastructure personnel as appropriate.   Partner with other senior IT management in the areas of application development and IT support LOB’s to provide solutions.  Possess superior team building and leadership skills, with ability to multitask in a fast changing environment.  Seek to understand the business and use financial and technical data to accurately enhance business acumen.  Communicate effectively with business people, technical staff, and senior management.  Facilitate discussions to explain technical issues while influence others' behavior toward the enterprise's goals; display a high emotional intelligence and build trust while maintaining confidentiality.  Listen to and manage conflicts and achieve compromise while meeting meaningful goals and respecting other parties' perspectives.    Technology Leadership  Establish technology direction and architecture for the application, identify and mitigate vulnerability risks.  Prioritize initiatives to advance the infrastructure while also delivering infrastructure components necessary to deliver IT projects.   Provides accurate time estimates for projects, communicate variances and/or obstacles, and propose alternatives in a timely manner.  Consider network and telecom infrastructure architectures specific to datacenters in order to assess operational strengths, weaknesses, and potential areas of improvement.   Enforce departmental policies for system hardware, software, and license asset lifecycle management.   Authorizes and acquires hardware and software for the enterprise related to infrastructure technology.   Provides senior leadership notification for major system outages, managing concurrent work streams for rapid resolution and identifying root cause source of the outage.  Manages vendor and consulting relationships and is experienced in evaluating and selecting sourcing alternatives.  Exercise deep understanding of complex technology and applying it in a practical way to create business solutions.  Display track record in infrastructure capacity planning with enterprise-wide impact on revenue and expenses. Demonstrated ability to manage, track, and staff multiple concurrent large projects.    Strategy Leadership  Work with management to adhere to annual budget to fund capitalized infrastructure projects based on infrastructure and application development strategic roadmap.  Participate in near and long term infrastructure strategic roadmap, making tactical adjustments as business and technology priorities evolve.  Formulate and implement departmental policies and procedures for infrastructure.   Ensure readiness and rigorousness of Infrastructure Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery plans, and arrange to conduct and review tests regularly.  Emphasize process and technology improvement in testing rounds.  Stay abreast of cyber security threats and innovations, sets direction for and implements cyber security monitoring and prevention tools.  Lead infrastructure integrations for acquired companies.    General  Report to upper executives in meetings and written status reports on the status of the platform’s IT infrastructure, SLA attainment, and current and planned initiatives and project work.  Perform application change control practices and procedures for planned work that carries a service outage risk or work affecting clients or customers triggering Change Control.  Enforce infrastructure SOX audit testing and remediation.   Deal with potentially sensitive and confidential information in a discreet and appropriate manner. Systems Administrator COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. CONSOLIDATED - Charlotte, NC July 2007 to April 2012 • Provide level III support for business units within CCBCC on all aspects pertaining to hardware & software  • Manage multi-site active directory infrastructure (DNS, DHCP)  • Understand key technological concepts, such as data modeling, application integration, system architecture, and operating systems.  • Keep abreast of technological trends, best practices, and life cycles.  • Familiarize myself with existing architecture within CCBCC's business and the desired future state of CCBCC's technology architecture as well as the plans for migrating to this state.  • Understand the downstream impact of technology on CCBCC's business and stakeholders.  • Manage existing inter-business unit relationships.  • Multi-site Exchange, Active Directory, DHCP, DNS systems administration (user accounts, network resources security). Windows Systems Administrator Rexam, Inc. - Charlotte, NC November 2006 to June 2007 Senior Network/ Systems Administrator CARICO INTERNATIONAL - Fort Lauderdale, FL March 2004 to October 2006 • Provide level III support on all aspects pertaining to network communications, hardware & software.  • Manage multi-site active directory infrastructure (DNS, DHCP)  • Support & manage enterprise mail & fax delivery system.  • Keep abreast of technological trends, best practices, and life cycles.  • Familiarize myself with the desired future state of the company as well as the plans to achieve this state.  • Understand the downstream impact of technology on the business and stakeholders.  • Manage existing inter-business unit relationships.  • Multi-site Exchange, Active Directory, DHCP, DNS systems administration (user accounts, network resources security). Education Certificate in Citrix Administration New Horizons Computer Learning Center - Charlotte, NC May 2009 to June 2009 Certification in ICND Global Knowledge Training Center - Cary, NC April 2007 to May 2007 Certification in Computer Electronics Technology Rets Institute - Nutley, NJ July 1997 to July 1998 Bachelor's in Computer Information Systems NJIT - Newark, NJ September 1988 to June 1990 Skills Law Enforcement, Physical Security, Armed Protective Services (8 years), Outlook (10+ years), Fuselage Repair (2 years) Military Service Branch: US Navy Service Country: United States Rank: E4 June 1990 to June 1993 Honorable Discharge Commendations: Letter of Commendation, EAWS, National Defense Medal, Pistol Expert Marksman, Rifle Expert Marksman Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ Present CompTIA Network+ Present Additional Information Competencies    • Bilingual world-class customer service  • Exceptional verbal & written communication skills  • Enterprise Network Administration  • SLA Management  • Active Directory, DNS, DHCP  • GP Design & Management  • Citrix/XenApp Administration  • VMware vSphere 4.0  • Windows Server 2008 (R2)  • Exchange 2007  • Remote Desktop Services  • SCCM 2007  • Remote Support