Sr. Systems Administrator Sr. <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Systems Administrator - ICE Parksville, NY Work Experience Sr. Systems Administrator ICE - New York, NY June 2003 to Present Provide support for maintenance and troubleshooting on servers, desktops, laptops, printers, and scanners involving all hardware and software issues  ? Site lead for office with 400 users, coordinating the efforts of IT support and deployment teams  ? Create and administer accounts in Active Directory including Security Group and Group mailbox accounts  ? Image and configure laptops, tablets, iPads and iPhones and assist users with training and use of devices  ? Use Service Now and Remedy to process trouble tickets and document workload  ? Assure successful backup and recovery of data using Symantec Net Backup  ? Provide remote support for satellite and overseas OCONUS offices  ? Maintain Teleconferencing and audio/video equipment  ? Use Windows PowerShell to compile workstation data  ? Installed and configured Microsoft 2008 and 2012 servers  ? Created Login Scripts using Visual Basic scripting language  ? Administered the Blackberry Exchange Server and handheld devices  ? Created and configured Novell and IP print servers  ? Created documentation for IT procedures and processes  ? Traveled throughout the U.S. on special detail operations Intern Department of Justice, ins Division - New York, NY August 2002 to May 2003 Assisted in help desk operations by processing calls through the Remedy Action Request system  ? Imaged, configured and installed new Dell workstations running Windows 2000  ? Automated processes for Inventory tracking system  ? Performed troubleshooting and repairs on network laser printers Manager Chelsea Feast Restaurant - New York, NY August 1997 to February 1999 Computer design and layout of daily menus and flyers  ? Managed deli department  ? Reconciled daily receipts averaging one thousand five hundred dollars per day  ? Designed and built window displays and café tables Education Bachelor of Science in Professional Computer Studies in Professional Computer Studies Pace University - New York, NY September 2002