Systems Analyst <span class="hl">Systems</span> Analyst Systems Analyst - Flagstar Bank Shelby Charter Township, MI Work Experience Systems Analyst Flagstar Bank - Troy, MI June 2015 to Present Direct employee  Systems engineer assigned to the content management team. Primary responsibilities include deployment, management and support of mission critical content applications running on Linux and Windows servers.  • Promotion of applications and software between development, test, quality assurance and production environments.  • Documentation of deployment procedures.  • Software Installation, configuration and upgrades.  • Creation of shell scripts for system management. Including sequenced restart of 20 interdependent application processes across groups of servers. Scripts for automation of deployment tasks.  • Creation of Ansible playbooks for system deployment, management and configuration.  • Creation of Tidal Enterprise scheduler jobs to manage data ingestion as well as schedule daily maintenance tasks.  • Configuration of Rundeck jobs to allow maintenance tasks to be performed by operations and off hour staff.  • Configuration and deployment of Nagios monitoring software. Creation of Nagios scripts to monitor system resources, storage, database tables, application queues, network resources and websites. This proactive monitoring significantly reduced the number and severity of outages.  • Troubleshooting system issues, performing incident root cause analysis and documenting results  • Deployment, upgrade and support of Adobe LiveCycle ( Enterprise Document Management )  • Maintain deployment scripts for test, staging and production environments.  • Training coworkers, operations and off hour staff.  • Support of IBM FileNET p8. Systems Analyst Flagstar Bank - Troy, MI March 2014 to June 2015 Contract through A-Line Contract firm  Systems engineer assigned to the content management team. Primary responsibilities include deployment, management and support of mission critical content applications running on Linux and Windows servers.  • Promotion of applications and software between development, test, quality assurance and production environments.  • Documentation of deployment procedures.  • Software Installation, configuration and upgrades.  • Creation of shell scripts for system management. Including sequenced restart of 20 interdependent application processes across groups of servers. Scripts for automation of deployment tasks.  • Creation of Ansible playbooks for system deployment, management and configuration.  • Creation of Tidal Enterprise scheduler jobs to manage data ingestion as well as schedule daily maintenance tasks.  • Configuration of Rundeck jobs to allow maintenance tasks to be performed by operations and off hour staff.  • Configuration and deployment of Nagios monitoring software. Creation of Nagios scripts to monitor system resources, storage, database tables, application queues, network resources and websites. This proactive monitoring significantly reduced the number and severity of outages.  • Troubleshooting system issues, performing incident root cause analysis and documenting results  • Deployment, upgrade and support of Adobe LiveCycle ( Enterprise Document Management )  • Maintain deployment scripts for test, staging and production environments.  • Training coworkers, operations and off hour staff.  • Support of IBM FileNET p8. Systems Engineer Hewlett Packard - Pontiac, MI August 2013 to March 2014 Short term contract through Synova Contract firm  System engineer assigned to the server automation team. Responsible for the design and deployment of HPSA server automation software (formerly known as Opsware) for new customers as well as upgrades for existing customers. Responsibilities include customer management, system design, installation and configuration of automation solutions. Solution includes Red Hat Linux running on either physical or virtual servers.  • Plan, manage, design and document new customer deployments.  • Install and configure Linux servers both local and remote at customer sites.  • Install and configure HPSA server automation software (formerly known as Opsware). Sr UNIX Administrator Oakland Community College - Auburn Hills, MI July 2008 to July 2013 Contract through Adecco Technical  Senior UNIX administrator responsible for the UNIX and Linux servers at Oakland Community College as well as the mission critical application running on them. This application, Datatel Colleague, manages all aspects of the college including student record, payroll, accounting, and scheduling. Responsible for daily management, installs, upgrades, troubleshooting, repairs and backup/archive of these systems. In addition I was an instructor at the college teaching CIS 2434 - "Introduction to Linux/Unix Administration"  • Manage UNIX and Linux servers including Solaris, RedHat, Centos, Fedora.  • Server OS installation, configuration and upgrades.  • Implementation and configuration of virtual servers using multiple technologies (zones, containers, domains, kvm)  • Application software installation, configuration and management.  • Creation of scripts to perform various tasks including backup, SFTP file transfers, database maintenance, system monitoring, etc.  • Documenting procedures and processes for both technical and non-technical users. These include installation directions, maintenance documents, trouble shooting documents and end user instructions.  • Troubleshooting OS and hardware issues and perform root cause analysis.  • Change Management/Change Control Planning and Review.  • Designed and implemented solutions to transfer data securely from database server to outside providers.  • Security policy for servers.  • SAN storage management.  • Daily system administration tasks for servers including backup, restore, userID, log maintenance, performance monitoring.  • Implemented Puppet testbed for Linux servers.  • Instructor for UNIX / Linux. Technical Consultant EMC - Livonia, MI July 2007 to July 2008 Provided technical support of pre-sales activities. Assisted in the analysis, design and development of fully integrated technology solutions. Technical emphasis on hardware capabilities, software requirements and systems integration. Developed technical strategies to deliver EMC solutions that support customers' business objectives. Duties included analysis of customers' business objectives, collection of technical information from customers, collaboration with other technical resources to design and configure EMC software, hardware and service solutions to meet customer needs. System Support Engineer Sun Microsystems, Inc - Southfield, MI August 2000 to July 2007 Functioned as Sun Microsystems technical lead and senior System Support Engineer for the EDS Auburn Hills data center. Duties include hosting customer technical meetings, coordination of installations, management of escalations and coordinating team activities. Also acted as customer liaison, providing customer support services, including, but not limited to: RAS tool output, patch reports, and Sun sentinel reports.  • Change Management/Change Control Planning and Review  • Server OS installation, configuration and upgrades  • Server implementation using Jumpstart as well as hardening servers with JASS  • Install and configuration of multi-domain systems including SunFire 6800/6900 and 15K/12K servers.  • Install and configuration of virtualization products including Zones/Containers, VirtualBox and VMware.  • Install and configuration of Solaris clusters.  • Business/Technical TOI's and Presentations  • DAS Storage Planning and Implementation  • SAN Storage Architecture Planning, Implementation and Support  • Brocade, Qlogic and Mcdata Fiber Channel Switch / Director installation and administration  • Veritas Solutions  • UNIX System Administration on Sun Servers UNIX Systems Analyst EDS - Warren, MI June 1998 to August 2000 Contract through Quantum Consulting  As a UNIX Systems Analyst supporting the EDS client, had a key role with the installation and maintenance of servers for the GM Midsize Luxury car division. Created and implemented Change Control requests to perform system upgrades. Coordinated with end users, beta testers and vendors for the installation, upgrade and maintenance of design software. Also responsible for script writing, troubleshooting, backup/restore operations, and upgrading of workstations.  • Change Management/Change Control Planning and Review  • All stages of server implementation.  • Business/Technical TOI's and Presentations  • Server operations  • Veritas Solutions  • Netbackup Solutions  • UNIX System Administration on Sun, HP and IBM Servers UNIX System Administrator Chrysler, Centerline, MI November 1995 to June 1998 Contract through CDI  As a UNIX System Administrator supporting the Chrysler Corporation, had key role with the administration of over 300 UNIX servers. Also had key role of primary UNIX administrator for 30 hourly payroll UNIX boxes that were remotely administered at plants around the US and Canada. UNIX server system administration responsibilities included, but were not limited to: installation of new servers, upgrades of existing server (both hardware and software), loading applications, server patching,, backup / restore and other server related duties.  • Change Management/Change Control Planning and Review  • Server administration  • Server upgrades  • Veritas Solutions  • Lagato backup solutions  • UNIX System Administration on Sun Servers UNIX system Administrator Visual Services - Bloomfield, MI May 1995 to November 1995 Contract through CCI  Six month contract to assist in installation of new servers and migration of applications from old servers to new.  • Performed Systems Administration for HP and IBM RS/6000 UNIX Systems.  • Installed and configured HP 800 Series servers for use as INFORMIX database servers.  • Developed scripts to configure hard disks (including mirroring), and set up databases.  • Created, documented and tested installation and configuration procedures, which allowed the system to be rebuilt from scratch in 5 hours.  • Responsible for backup and restore of all UNIX servers.  • Automated system checks and set up pager system for 24 hour notification of failure on HP, IBM RS/6000 and AT&T UNIX systems.  • Provided help desk support for UNIX operating system, as well as PC hardware and software questions. Network/UNIX System Administrator Focus Hope - Detroit, MI June 1993 to May 1995 Contract through CTA  • Performed Systems Administration duties on a multi vendor system including SUN, SGI and HP. Responsible for install, configuration and operation of servers and workstation.  • Managed backup and restore for multi-vendor environment. Implemented mult-level backup strategy to minimize backup windows.  • Trouble shot and repaired UNIX workstations, UNIX servers, PCs and networks hardware.  • Network Administrator responsible for maintaining the network, performing upgrades, assigning addresses and installing network hardware.  • Involved in the design of a state-of-the-art network including 10 routers and 300 nodes. System was designed with redundancy of all critical paths and servers to insure reliability and availability.  • Provided documentation for all installations, moves, changes made related to managing the equipment located on the network.  • Installed and configured CISCO routers. Education Bachelors of Science in Electrical Engineering and Computer Design Michigan Technological University