IT Systems Engineer IT <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer IT Systems Engineer - Guadeloupe Valley Telephone Cooperative Selma, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Systems Engineer Guadeloupe Valley Telephone Cooperative - San Antonio, TX October 2018 to Present Administer Microsoft SCCM environment (1902 Version), including application deployments, patch management, general troubleshooting, log analysis, upgrade and recommendations on current infrastructure. Maintained device collections, OS build task sequences for servers and desktops, and developed install tasks for 3rd party patching. Managed Hyper-V and Hyper-V Fail-over Clustering, virtualizing over 90% of workloads and enabling high availability across most systems running on Gen9 HP blade chassis managed with HPE Oneview. Firewall maintenance, troubleshooting and changes with SOPHOS XG and Juniper SRX345. Cooperate with IT security through maintenance of group policy objects and assisting in designed approaches to mitigate current threats. Subnet corporate LAN to increase security and mitigate broadcast domains. Integrate Meraki guest WiFi with internal network improving coverage and security. Senior Systems Administrator Linedata/CapitalStream - Seattle, WA January 2016 to October 2018 Seattle server administrator for worldwide corporate infrastructure. Including but not limited to North American instances of Lync, Symantec Endpoint Protection, Active Directory, Backup Exec, and Exchange. Maintained a mixed environment of VMWare, Hyper-V, and HP Physical Servers using EMC Storage running Windows Server 2008 – 2012 R2 as well as Ubuntu and CentOS flavors of Linux. Lead project to add whole server room UPS solution. Installed, configured, and maintained Centreon/Nagios monitoring solution to handle telemetry from Linux and Windows servers as well as documented procedures for adding machines and changing notifications. Built from bare metal VMWare 6.0 dev environment using C7000 blade chassis, VNX 5500 on iSCSI, and Cisco Nexus 5548s. Senior Systems Engineer Homestreet Bank May 2013 to October 2015 Primary manager of the Exchange 2010 server infrastructure. Clustering, Load balancing, and infrastructure experience focused around MS Exchange 2010 DAG. Automated various tasks using Network Automation's Automate 9. Primary Cisco UCS and Nimble storage engineer supporting VMware and bare metal Windows boot from iSCSI. Managed Citrix/XenApp and RemoteApp 2012 farms for various applications. Provided intuitive solutions for running outdated software on newer technology; a growing challenge in the financial sector. Leveraged CommVault for backup and restore. Support of over 450 servers running Windows 2003 - 2012R2 on VMWare ESX 5.5. Senior Desktop Engineer Homestreet Bank May 2011 to May 2013 Developed install scripts & packages for unattended install of various applications. Troubleshoot client/server based apps with vendor support. Managed account creations for new hires which included AD account, Exchange 2010 mailbox, permissions on various network resources and Lotus Notes 7.3. Acted as primary escalation point for desktop support techs. Created base images for Windows 7 rollout using sysprep and Symantec Ghost. Maintained RSA SecureID inventory, imported new tokens, assigned tokens to users, and reset pins for users. Point person for PowerShell scripting for varying administrative tasks. System Support Engineer CompuCom - Seattle, WA June 2007 to April 2011 Investigate complex software, hardware, and network issues pertaining to desktops, laptops, printers, servers, and applications to maintain business standards. Maintained backup and restore of files with Symantec Backup Exec on Windows 2003 servers. Lead team to reduce the amount of servers needed by 60% by consolidating databases, applications, and file shares. Maintained inventory of stock on hand as well as deployed computers. Reset passwords, created network shares with proper security measures, troubleshoot system problems, and prevent future failures with preventative maintenance. Lead support of 120+ users with software installs, system migrations, printer repairs, laptop and desktop imaging using Ghost, data recovery, inventory maintenance, and various other duties as needed. Used corporate tools to track and document all service requests. I created documentation for all processes in order to help other technicians in the support process.    Certifications, Training and licenses  Exchange 2010 Training (MS-10135), Cisco UCS training, A+ certified, Dell Certified Service Technician, Extra class Amateur Radio operator Education High school or equivalent Skills Active directory, Cisco, Dns, Exchange, Firewalls, IIS, Load balancing, Nagios, Networking, Remedy, Vlan, Scripting, Citrix, Dhcp, Layer 2, Metaframe, Router, Vmware, Vpn, Xenapp, Linux, SCCM, Powershell, System Administrator, Juniper (2 years), Layer 3 Additional Information Operating Systems:  ? Windows Server 2003 - 2016 ? Linux (Debian, CentOS, RHEL, Ubuntu)  ? Windows XP - 10    Scripting:  ? PowerShell scripting (Exchange 2010 & administrative tasks) ? bash scripting for administrative tasks  ? Automate 9.0 scripting    Software:  ? Exchange 2010 w/DAG ? Trend Deep Security, OfficeScan, and Sophos AntiVirus  ? XenApp 6.5, Citrix MetaFrame 4.0 ? Automate 9.0 - Automation scripting engine  ? VMWare ESX 5-6 / XenCenter / Hyper-V ? Remedy, Clarify, & Service Center for tracking issues  ? Centrion, Nagios, and SCCM monitoring  ? Microsoft Office, XP-2016 usage, config, and support    ? CommVault, Backup Exec  ? IIS 6 -7.5    ? puTTY, SecureCRT, cygwin    Hardware/SAN:  ? Cisco UCS Framework - Chassis and Rackmount ? Nimble Storage iSCSI  ? HP and Dell Servers(Rack and Blade), Desktops, and Laptops ? EMC VNX iSCSI    Networking:  ? Router and Switch configuration (Cisco, HP) ? Configure software and hardware firewalls  ? Understanding of Layer 2 and 3 ? VPN, VLAN, NAT, DHCP, DNS, LAN, WAN, WiFi  ? Load balancing (Kemp and loadbalancer.org)    Administration:  ? Active Directory 2003 - 2012 R2 and Group Policy ? CommVault Administration  ? Microsoft Bitlocker Administration and Monitoring ? RSA SecureID Administration