Systems Analyst <span class="hl">Systems</span> Analyst Systems Analyst - Primerica Lithonia, GA Work Experience Systems Analyst Primerica - Duluth, GA January 2018 to Present AIX, RHEL and Suse  ? Design and support Patch Management procedures  ? Responsible for identifying, documenting and executing patches and configuration  updates  ? Threat and vulnerability resource assisting with daily operations  ? RedHat Satellite  ? IBM BigFix  ? coordinate with cross-functional work teams toward task completion  ? 24/7 support as required Systems Administrator ACI Worldwide - Norcross, GA January 2015 to December 2017 User and Server administration of RedHat Linux, AIX, HP-UX and SUSE systems  ? NIS, IPA and local authentications  ? Patching  ? Administration and support of three EMC Avamar grids  ? Collaborate with Sr. Systems Administrators, Engineers and Project Managers to ensure  deadline expectations User Support Specialist Georgia Department of Labor - Atlanta, GA July 2014 to December 2014 Install and maintain servers, PCs and other technology applications  ? Support classroom AV installations  ? Upgrade operating systems and application software  ? Troubleshoot problems and provides customer assistance and training  ? Determines technology needs of internal and external customers Systems Administrator Georgia Advocacy Office - Decatur, GA February 2006 to February 2014 Administration of LAN/WAN networks, routers and switches  ? Administration of Shoretel VOIP telephone system  ? Install, configure and administration of Windows SBS 2011  ? Install, configure and administration of MS SQL Server  ? Administration of Windows Server 2003  ? Project Lead of migration from PBX to Shoretel VOIP Technology Coordinator Rhode Island Parent Information Network - Cranston, RI January 2005 to February 2006 Systems Management  ? Daily back-up of network  ? Diagnose and repair all software and hardware  ? Research regarding purchase/lease/repair/maintenance options  ? Manage the ACT database  ? Generation of program/segmentation ACT reports  ? Training staff on the use of ACT    Linux Academy Certifications:  Linux Essentials  DevOps Essentials  CompTIA Cloud Essentials  Docker Quick Start  Git Quick Start  Puppet Quick Start  Vim - The Improved Editor Education Bachelor of Arts in Computer Information Technology in Computer Information Technology Southern New Hampshire University - Manchester, NH 2020 Code Immersion in java, javascript, html, css, jquery, API Tech Talent South - Atlanta, GA June 2019 to August 2019 Skills Security, HTML, Active Directory