Sr. Systems Administrator/ IT Consultant Sr. <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/ IT Consultant Sr. Systems Administrator/ IT Consultant Stone Mtn, GA To further a challenging career in Information Technology, with special interest in providing quality  service and support for consumer and high-end clients, also, to assist in the company's growth and  development. Work Experience Sr. Systems Administrator/ IT Consultant EndPoint Technologies - Atlanta, GA April 2018 to May 2019 • Managed and maintained client networks.  • Windows Server management on Windows Server 2008R2, 2012, and 2016 platforms.  • Managed and migrated Clients On-Premise Exchange to Exchange On-line.  • Maintained Active Directory (AD) locally and in Azure  • Implemented and Integrated SharePoint 2013 and SharePoint Online. Maintained Email Security.  • Implemented, deployed and managed O365 hybrid Solution.  • SharePoint and Exchange On-Premise and in cloud. Migrated On-Premise Microsoft Exchange  Server 2013 mailboxes to Office 365 Exchange on Cloud.  • Configure ADFS - Active Directory Federated Services for single Sign-On  • Architect SharePoint infrastructure / Sites/ Teams/ Permissions / Interface and design    • Provided desktop support for Microsoft Windows Operating Systems: Windows 7, Windows 8 .1  and Windows 10. Also, Apple systems, platforms including 10.4 - 10.6 and iOS  • Troubleshoot and resolve software and hardware issues/ internet connectivity. Networking printers.  Domain maintenance, Operate, and maintain Wireless Local Area Network WLAN connectivity  using TCP/IP protocol. Sr. Systems Administrator/ SharePoint Administrator Community Service Society of New York - New York, NY August 2015 to April 2018 • Support approx. 150 users and workstations.  • Managed and maintained 18 physical and virtual servers.  • Monitored Network. Server management platform included Windows Server 2008R2, 2012R2, and Architect SharePoint 2016 to 2016 2016. • Implemented, deployed and managed O365 hybrid Solution.  • SharePoint and Exchange On-Premise and in cloud. Migrated On-Premise Microsoft Exchange  Server 2013 mailboxes to Office 365 Exchange on Cloud.  • Configure ADFS - Active Directory Federated Services for single Sign-On  • Architect SharePoint infrastructure / Sites/ Teams/ Permissions / Interface and design  • Maintained Active Directory (AD) Locally and via Cloud, Azure.  • SharePoint 2013 and SharePoint Online.  • Maintained Email Security and HIPAA compliance.  • Manage helpdesk ticketing system (Remedy and JIRA)  • Customize and Implement solutions to maintain network integrity and functionality.  • Mobile device management (MDM) via Desktop Central, Apple MDM, and Built-in Exchange  MDM. System Administrator Kaizen Technologies - Stamford, CT October 2011 to August 2015 • Managed and maintained company networks in the U.S, Shanghai, India, and Germany, which consisted of over 70 users.  • Managed a total of 16 servers on Windows Server 2008R2 and 2012 platforms. Managed and migrated Microsoft Exchange Server 2010 to Office 365 Exchange on Cloud.  • Managed Blackberry Server 5.0, Migrated Blackberry Server 10,  • VMware Virtual Servers,  • Maintained Active Directory (AD)  • Maintained Email Security via Barracuda Spam Filter.  • Administered Blackberry Enterprise Server and Blackberry users consisting of 150 Users.  Migrated Blackberry Server 5.0.4 to Blackberry 10 Server. Then to iOS platform.  • Provided desktop support for Microsoft Windows Operating Systems: Windows 7, Windows 8 .1  and Windows 10. Also, Apple systems, platforms including 10.4 - 10.6 and iOS  • Troubleshoot and resolve software and hardware issues/ internet connectivity. Networking printers.  Operate, and maintain Wireless Local Area Network WLAN connectivity using TCP/IP protocol. Helpdesk technical support AT&T Mobility - Paramus, NJ November 2004 to November 2010 for select IT managers for corporate clients of large companies with  (SLA) of 100 lines or more of service Supported platforms including Microsoft Exchange Lotus  Domino for Blackberry Enterprise Server (BES) and Blackberry Internet Service (BIS).  • Escalate connectivity or software issues via ticketing systems (Clarify, CTS) to the appropriate  network operation or vendors such as RIM, Microsoft, or internal IT for VPN issues. Updated  clients with progress of tickets and resolution.  • Coordinate bridges and conferences with internal and external Engineers and site techs to resolve  issues  • Coordinate bridges and conferences with internal and external Engineers and site techs to resolve  issues.  • Coordinated support efforts across AT&T network. Opened, maintained, and closed trouble tickets  in CTS and Remedy ticketing systems which may include working with affiliates and vendors such as (Microsoft, RIM Blackberry, and Palm). *Instructed new hire Advanced Network Services  training. Education Computer Science DeKalb Technical College - Clarkston, GA November 2003 to February 2004