Senior Systems Analyst/Programmer Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> Analyst/Programmer Senior Systems Analyst/Programmer - OldCastle BuildingEnvelope Toledo, OH Hard working seasoned web development professional successful at developing  product road maps and leading cross-functional software teams from prototype to  release. Expert in Web based content management systems and advanced level  PHP Development/ C# Development. Advanced Full Stack DevOps and Lifecycle  Manager. Work Experience Senior Systems Analyst/Programmer OldCastle BuildingEnvelope - Toledo, OH March 2018 to Present • Collaborated with a team of 3 other Developers and Business Analysts to create an Inventory tracking system extension for Epicor ERP and close out a  4 year project.  • Maintained and monitored the serves environment for client interacting web  programs in both Microsoft .Net/SQL server configurations.  • Worked closely with the Security Director on updated security measures to better protect the edge services that connect to our internal systems.  • Designed and implemented new technology for the software development  infrastructure including conversion to GIT from SVN and implementing software  lifecycle plans. Director of Information Technology Thread Marketing Group - Toledo, OH February 2015 to March 2018 Led the development team of 4 developers through multiple websites and other  web-based products. Collaborated with the sales, marketing and support teams to launch products on time and within budget.  • Maintained and monitored the client environment, both LAMP stacks and  Microsoft .Net/SQL server configurations.  • Updated and consolidated a multi homed network design to eliminate single  points of failure and unify the entire network behind redundant Sophos UTM  proxy servers and Cisco ASA edge firewalls.  • Tested and implemented new technology across all facets of the system  infrastructure including updated security monitoring and implementing hardware  lifecycle plans for servers and workstations. Senior Systems Analyst / Systems Administrator Thread Marketing Group - Toledo, OH March 2008 to February 2015 Designed and implemented a new backup system using Barracuda Backup  deduplication system to replace tape based backups.  • Designed a new coding standard for development team to implement best  practices to coincide with HIPAA and PCI compliance across the network.  • Implemented a new software as a service structure for workstation software.  • Upgraded client datacenter to a new m1000E blade center with Fibre SAN  running VMWare VSphere and consolidated all physical machines through virtualization. Education Partial Coursework M.I.S Truckee Meadows Community College - Reno, NV H.S. Diploma Whitmer High School - Toledo, OH Skills C# (10+ years), Epicor (1 year), SQL (4 years), exchange, Customer Service, Network Administration, Strategic Planning, Vmware, PHP (10+ years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/nicholascraig https://www.hackerrank.com/craig419