Senior IS Systems Administrator Senior IS <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior IS Systems Administrator - HOM Furniture Brooklyn Center, MN I am a highly skilled IT generalist with 13 years of experience as a Systems Administrator managing a broad range of technologies including Linux, Mac, Windows, and IBM i server environments.. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior IS Systems Administrator HOM Furniture - Coon Rapids, MN 2015 to Present • Implemented a monitoring solution to provide detailed statistics and alert escalation as well as data driven decision making.  • Created automated processes to streamline user on-boarding, technology provisioning and deployment.  • Trained Tier 1 and 2 technical staff. Helping them to learn new skills and improve satisfaction with our user's customer service experience.  • Provided network design and troubleshooting oversight over a large multi site network.  • Worked closely with software development team on infrastructure and security matters.  • Maintained a Microsoft Active Directory environment for 15 large retail stores and a corporate office for over 1000 users and 500 client workstations.  • Installed, configured and maintained firewalls providing security best practices as well as fast response to detected threats.  • Migrated VMWare environment from Dell Compellent SAN to Nutanix environment with zero production downtime.  • Provided help desk support for escalated issues and advised decision makers on technology related issues.  • Implemented a complete overhaul of the wifi infrastructure to provide a reliable mobile softphone environment that allows sales staff to better connect to and serve their customers. System Administrator Erik's Bike Shop - Bloomington, MN 2009 to 2015 • Engineered an automated configuration management solution to provision workstation and server deployments as well as perform ongoing patch management with little to no manual intervention, reducing staffing and software costs.  • Managed all technology aspects for the construction and opening of 10 retail stores. Voice/data cabling, phone system installation, workstations/servers, security/surveillance systems.  • Configuration and oversight of networking and security infrastructure to ensure compliance with the PCI-DSS in a diverse server environment including Windows Server, OS X, Linux, and VMware.  • Coordinated with external developers to program a replacement for a proprietary unsupported wiki software software solution with a robust Wiki/Learning Management System allowing Erik's to reduce training cost by 50%.  • Designed and programmed a system for managing the workflow for Web Store employees enabling them to accommodate an increase of 200% more orders per month while maintaining existing staff level.  • Created in-house digital signage solution saving Erik's $5000/yr by avoiding third party solution. Co-Founder/Lead Programmer Para-Diddle Design 2005 to 2009 • Educated clients and provided personalized support managing their projects to ensure success.  • Provided maintenance of over 20 client websites, including data backup, network security, and updates/upgrades.  • Built and maintained company's enterprise management solutions including project management software, customer relation management, and support ticket system. Education None in Music Education University of South Dakota - Vermillion, SD 1996 to 1999 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Vmware, Nagios, Networking, Puppet, Virtualization, Compellent, Dell compellent, Nexsan, Git, Jenkins, Php, Python, Ruby, Scripting, Apache, Freebsd, Linux, Bash, System Admin, Linux Administrator, System Administrator, Linux Administrator, System Admin, System Administrator, SCCM Additional Information Operating Systems  • Windows  (Server 2008-2016, 7-10)  • OS X (Mac OS)  • GNU/Linux (Ubuntu  CentOS, OpenSUSE)  • FreeBSD  • IBM i 7.1 - 7.2 (AS400)    Configuration/Change Mgmt  • Puppet  • Ansible  • Git  • Jenkins  • Active Directory/Group Policy  • OpenLDAP  • Vagrant    Networking  • Cisco IOS  • Palo Alto Networks  • Aruba Wireless  • Dell Powerconnect  • Comware (HPE, H3C)  • Fortinet  • Watchguard    Programming/Scripting  • PHP  • Python  • FileMaker  • Git  • Bash  • Ruby  • Powershell    Virtualization/Storage  • VMWare  • Veeam  • Nutanix  • Proxmox/KVM  • Virtualbox  • Dell Compellent  • Nexsan    Communications  • Mitel VoIP  • Google Apps (G Suite)  • Avaya PBX  • Shoretel VoIP    Server Technologies  • Apache  • Tomcat  • Nginx  • MySQL/MariaDB  • MSSQL  • DB2    Monitoring/Logging  • Nagios  • New Relic  • Splunk  • ELK stack  • Netwitness