Desktop Support II Desktop Support II Desktop Support II - Wyndham Destinations Las Vegas, NV Work Experience Desktop Support II Wyndham Destinations December 2017 to Present • Citrix, Citrix Director, Xen Center and Citrix Studio - XenDesktop and XenApps.  • Networking - working in MDF, IDF, server hardware replacements, patching. Working with vendors and Cisco engineers on server issues.  • DRA and AD - creating/deleting/moving objects, adding to groups, unlocks/resets  • Working with users globally using ServiceNow for ticketing and asset management  • Campusship with UPS to ship assets to users  • Bomgar for remote access  • Support of corporate level executives  • Writing standard operating procedures Systems Administrator - Contract ConvergeOne - Robert Half for UNLV June 2017 to December 2017 • Assisted with domain migration from UNR to UNLV  • Responsible for 3 separate clinics  • Worked with Medical related applications  • Worked with doctors and staff regarding issues in direct correlation with domain migration  Including but not limited to network, wifi, printing, access, applications and day to day support Computer Engineer MGM Resorts Int - Las Vegas, NV October 2012 to June 2017 Experience working in 10 large casino environments supporting thousands of users  including corporate level executives with a broad range of technical issues.  • Knowledge of casino environment applications, including Opera, HotSos, Ticketmaster and Citrix.  • Proficiency with Remedy Software, and CA for incident handling, escalation and asset management  • Setting up Android, Blackberry and Apple devices for enterprise use.  • Troubleshooting and configuring point of sale systems, NCR and InfoGenesis, setups and deployments  • Have led multiple projects unsupervised Systems Administrator - Contract Air Force - Indian Springs, NV May 2012 to October 2012 • Worked in a 75+ server environment, multi-flavor, supporting 7 networks with blade servers and virtualization  • Equipment installs for ground control stations for drone pilots, including building from the ground up  • System installs from server rooms to end user, including making cables, patching, port testing, running lines and troubleshooting  • Gained knowledge of deployment servers and server hardware installations Network Administrator United States Navy - Pearl Harbor, HI September 2007 to April 2012 • Handled technical troubleshooting and resolving issues which included system crashes, slow-downs and data recovery. Ensured network securities were in place and ensuring compliance with DoD IA and Navy Guidance  • Identified, and isolated hardware/software/application problems, client/server  • Managed shipboard servers  • Engaged and tracked Priority 1 issues, with timely documentation and escalations when appropriate  • Worked with active directory for account creation and group policy management on a daily basis within a windows enterprise environment.  • Managed the IT Operations Center and staff, providing vital voice and data services for critical missions. Monitored status and integrity of networks and equipment. Supervised and scheduled any corrective maintenance on over 30 voice and data networks while maintaining security controls in a top secret environment. Provided and scheduled training and maintained books on personnel qualifications. Education AAS in Computing and Information Technology in support and engineering College of Southern Nevada - Las Vegas, NV March 2011 Information Systems "A" Technical School - Pensacola, FL December 2007