IT Manager IT Manager IT Manager - EASTERN RESEARCH GROUP Chelmsford, MA Responsible position in the high-tech networking environment. Experience in PC, MAC, UNIX, LINUX  with background in networking topologies and communications. Experience in running a variety of  client/server hardware & software combinations with Microsoft, VMware, and Cisco networking. Work Experience IT Manager EASTERN RESEARCH GROUP November 2013 to Present Manage MIS team consisting of 5 members.  ? Oversee all aspect of the IT Department operations responsible for IT infrastructure, Communication  (LAN, WAN, VPN, Virtual environment, Office365 etc.), database, backup recovery.  ? Manage the day-to-day operations of the IT group including downtime, reporting service level, defining  and tracking IT operational metrics and provide stats to management.  ? Monitor and maintains overall security of the network, systems and data using Spiceworks, PRTG monitor, Solar Winds NPM, Splunk, SonicWALL GMS etc.  ? Ensures high availability of critical business systems hosted for government client.  ? Manage staff members in their daily activities as well as supporting business projects.  ? Develop and manage relationship with vendors and clients.  ? Manage overall capacity utilization of server/hardware environment ensuring it is optimized to meet  business requirements and compliance.  ? Administer VMware and Hyper-V environment for over 100 guests OS.  ? Develop and implement hardware and software standards for network, servers, Wi-Fi, desktop, laptop etc.  ? Develop and implement over backup data retention and recovery standard  ? Overall responsibility for all laptop and desktop upgrades  ? Determine, recommend and implement hardware and software upgrades for business application, server  hardware, network equipment, network bandwidth etc.  ? Provision internet circuits and wiring for corporate offices.  ? Prepare an annual budget and implementation scheduled  ? Provide 24x7 on-call support. TEAM LEAD EASTERN RESEARCH GROUP November 2012 to November 2013 Manage MIS team consisting of 5 members.  ? Manage corporate IT purchasing, vendors; obtain price quotations and purchase computer hardware and software.  ? Ensure corporate IT infrastructure is secure, scalable, flexible and compliant.  ? Implemented policies and procedures in problem identification, feedback, documentation, distribution and correction with KACE helpdesk system.  ? Migrated Novell GroupWise email to Microsoft Office 365 (Exchange 2013 on line, OneDrive, Lync  online and SharePoint)  ? Administrator for Office 365 with Exchange 2013 online, SharePoint 2013, Lync Online 2013 and One  Drive for business.  ? Developed standard operating procedures and best practices, including providing written protocols and guidance to IT staff and to end-users.  ? Setup Hyper-V and VMware ESXi5.5 and 6.0 environment.  ? Manage and setup SharePoint team sites  ? Configured and Setup Active Directory with Windows 2008/2012 servers. Setup the Printers, Group  Policies, DFS shares and DFS replication across the 9 office.  ? Upgraded all internet circuits and firewall for better security and speed.  ? Manage corporate LAN, WAN, WEB, VPN and Wireless network  ? SQL DBA and System administrator for the server support.  ? Manage all SSL and VB certification for the ERG.  ? Migrated all Windows XP users to Windows 7  ? Monitor firewall logs for any malicious activity.  ? Manage and monitor bandwidth utilizing using Level 3 portals and SonicWall Viewpoint application. NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR EASTERN RESEARCH GROUP February 2003 to November 2012 Administer, direct and integrate the organization's LAN and WAN in a multiple platform, protocol and operation systems environment.  ? Manage and troubleshoots all Novell Netware 6.x servers, Office365, Windows 2008 Active Directory  Domain, Cluster Server, RAS, VPN, DHCP, DNS, FTP, IIS, Oracle, WSUS (software update services), and SQL Servers.  ? Plan, coordinates, implement and supported the Dell, and HP servers.  ? Manage SonicWALL, Cisco router and HP, 3Com and Extreme switches.  ? Implemented automated remote backup process for ERG's remote office and employee.  ? Support multiple offices for IT Support and server support remotely.  ? Reconfigured ERG's WAN from HUB-SPOKE to MESH network.  ? Upgraded Novell NetWare from 5.0 and 5.1 to Netware 6.0.  ? Setup and Configured Exchange Online, Lync Online, SharePoint Online and OneDrive.  ? Manage all websites and ftp server. (Apache, IIS, MySQL, SQL 2000, PHP)  ? Manage all server backup using Arcserve Brightstore, Backup Exec and TapeWare.  ? Researches vendor products and recommends purchase, development or enhancement of network hardware, software and telecommunication.  ? Establishes performance standards, policies and procedures.  ? Schedule, supervise and install all software additions and upgrades through NAL and WSUS.  ? Diagnosis and solutions to computer problems, workstations, fileservers, communication servers, hubs, routers, switches, firewalls and other connectivity-related equipment.  ? Manage all Lotus Notes server and SQL server.  ? Monitor Network and server resources using IPMonitor V6.0 Software.  ? Also provide technical support for a wide variety of projects at ERG. SR. IT ENGINEER WATERCOVE NETWORKS October 2000 to February 2003 As a second member of in-house IT team, play a large role in building a entire infrastructure with network  equipment and server setup from ground up.  ? Setup and configured Cisco router, HP switches, Nortel VPN, Raptor and SonicWALL Firewall.  ? Setup and administrator Exchange 5.5 mail server, Windows NT/2000 server with Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, WINS, RAS, IAS(radius), IIS, FTP, SSL, Terminal Server, File and Print Services.  ? Manage Network Appliance Filer FS760 with CIFS, NFS 500GB NAS disk space.  ? Maintain Windows NT PDC and BDC and Directory Replication.  ? SQL 7.0/2000 server support, installs, maintenance, upgrades and provides daily support services for the SQL production and development applications.  ? Strong SQL 7.0/2000 Server Security, administration, performance, server and database tuning, capacity  planning, monitoring, re-indexing, integrity checking, database shrinking, backup and recovery.  ? Implement McAfee virus protection for Mail servers, Database server, file servers and all clients.  ? Administrate the Quick Books and Great Plain Financial software and Agile Manufacturing software.  ? Administrate Veritas Netbackup V 3.4 software and backup server.  ? Build and Administrate WaterCove Intranet web using Front Page 2002, GoLive and NetObject Fusion.  ? Administrate ClearCase and ClearQuest servers, Maintain FLEXlm license server.  ? Implemented Polycom IP based video conference between remote offices.  ? Supported interoffice point to point, VPN, T1 connection between Sweden and Chicago office.  ? Cross train with UNIX/LINUX administrator. Administering User/Groups, removing users, changing user  information and permission, updating NIS maps and host file.  ? Setup wireless LAN network with MAC address filter and encryption.  ? Identify and Troubleshoot LAN/WAN problems and resolve issue.  ? Configure and maintain laptop, workstation and Phone system move, add and changes as necessary.  ? Strong knowledge and experience with PC hardware and software technology, system administrator, share  network resources, internet access, security, remote access and mail.  ? Maintain all network and server software and equipment with the latest vendor updates and patch level.  ? Monitor network and server resources and perform performance and capacity planning and management for servers and network using Sniffer Pro and IPMonitor V6.0 software. SR. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR NETSCOUT SYSTEMS INC October 1997 to October 2000 Responsible for Lotus Notes R4, R5, Novell 3x, 4x, 5x and NT 4.0/2000 administration & Server Support.  ? NT server administration and experience with installation, upgrade, and implementation of NT OS, internal  Exchange 5.5 & Lotus Notes mail server, Active directory services, IIS, DNS, TCP/IP, DHCP, RAS, SQL  Server, Great Plains Financial, Outlook, Backup, and Restore.  ? Operating environment is Notes v4.6 on Windows NT Server v4.0. Experience with all aspects of administration such as creating IDs, groups, ACLs and performing server tasks like backups, antivirus and  create/maintain agents. Ability to create and maintain small db applications. Experience with Domino web  server, SMTP Gateway and migration to R5.  ? Setup and administrate Citrix server and client access.  ? Administration of Novell user account, groups, rights, NDS and Server Support.  ? Installation and Administration of SQL 6.5/7.0 server, network throughput, security, user logins, server  sizing, evaluate/install service packs, backup and recovery.  ? Build and Configured NetScout Intranet using Notes Domino, NetObject Fusion and IIS4.0/5.0  ? Build, Configured and Maintain Backup Servers using Arcserve backup software and Legato NetWorker.  ? Implemented network-based fax, RightFax.  ? Setup and configured Cisco router, switch and firewall (PIX), Ascend Max (remote access server).  ? Knowledge of TCP/IP protocols such as HTTP, SMTP, POP3, and IMAP.  ? Install/configure server hardware - RAID 0, 1, 5 (dell Power edge, Compact Proliant, Micron MV5000)  ? Able to troubleshoot and fix file server and application server (NT4.0/5.0, Novell, Lotus Notes).  ? Evaluate and rollout new Software/Hardware and purchase licensees.  ? Provide 2nd level desktop support for over 250 users for NT, UNIX and LINUX administration as needed.  ? Configured Desktop and Laptop systems for Standard Software/New Hire. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR HARTE-HANKS DATA TECHNOLOGIES March 1997 to October 1997 Responsibilities of Network and Lotus Notes administration.  ? Build, Configured and Maintain NT, Lotus Notes and Novell Servers.  ? Experience in UNIX system permission, file structures and basic admin.  ? Working knowledge of various platforms including Dos, Windows, Windows95, Windows  NT3.51/4.0 and Macintosh. Provide desktop support for over 500 users.  ? Configuration and Installation of Laptop and Desktop systems and New Hire Setup.  ? Resolve Network and TCP/IP related problems.  ? Experience with remote network access, backup methodologies and telecommunications.  ? Design and implemented notes domain structure overseas. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR 3COM CORPORATION November 1994 to February 1997 Responsibilities include network administration and configuration of NetWare 4X network.  ? Setup and created user's accountant, print servers, print queue and configured printers.  ? Gained hands on experience in the analysis, design, installation and support of multiple LAN  environment, using Ethernet, Token Ring, Token Bus and FDDI LAN.  ? Install software on servers and backup the Lotus Notes and NetWare servers.  ? Troubleshoot Software/Hardware and Network problems.  ? Desktop support for PC and MAC users for Ethernet, Token Ring and Apple Talk Network.  ? Installation and Configuration of new systems with Win95, WinNT, Windows3.1 and MAC.  ? Responsible for system repairs, failure verification and installation local area networks for various test  stations on production line.  ? Experienced in UNIX based test software and windows. Knowledge of Ethernet, Token Ring and FDDI.  ? Responsible for training test and debug personnel. Work closely with test engineering in revision of test  procedures and Eco's. PC REPAIR TECHNICIAN HEWLETT PACKARD July 1993 to November 1994 Repair and tested system peripherals board, Hard Drive, Monitors and Modems.  ? Installing new software and keep track of inventory. Education Microsoft Certified MCP BOSTON UNIVERSITY 2010 to 2019 BS in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS Skills Vmware, Network Administration