Field Technician Field Technician Field Technician - Precision Document Solutions Fredericksburg, VA Work Experience Field Technician Precision Document Solutions - Fredericksburg, VA October 2018 to Present Managed a fleet of 2500+ Laser Printers and Multifunction devices across 50+ locations within Mary Washington HealthCare.  - Maintained inventory of parts and toners for all devices.  - Responsible for ongoing replacement of older devices.  - Decreased toner usage by updating machine in fleet and adjusting print practices. Field Technician Ricoh USA - Fredericksburg, VA June 2015 to September 2018 Managed a fleet of 300+ Laser Multifunction devices and digital duplicators across my region. Provided Smart Hand support for all PC/Networking calls.  - Supported both B/W and color devices from desktop to Large Volume machines.  - Worked on Quantico Marine Corps Base, Dahlgren Naval Base, and Fort AP Hill providing support for CAC on all Multifunction devices.  - Contracted by IPA to provide Break/Fix support on Scrubex devices in all local hospitals.  - Contracted by Amazon to Install, Setup and maintain Amazon Lockers within the region. Systems Administrator Rosner Automotive Group - Fredericksburg, VA November 2007 to April 2014 Overseeing day to day Help Desk operations from ticket creation to problem resolution, providing end user support for all facets of business operations, providing server and network support to all facilities.  - Aided in creation and optimization of help desk ticketing software and process.  - Helped develop and optimize new hire paperwork and onboarding process.  - Helped lead the merger and acquisition team with all new facility setup.  - Built redundancy into all aspects of the dealership operations (Servers, PC's, Printers).  - Responsible for transition of all Finance and Insurance paperwork from preprinted forms to Print on Demand (POD) laser forms. Education Diploma Stafford Senior High School - Stafford, VA 2007 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, EXCHANGE, SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATION, CONTRACTS, MICROSOFT EXCHANGE, MICROSOFT OFFICE, MICROSOFT OFFICE 2003, OFFICE 2003, WINDOWS SERVER 2003