System Administrator Principal <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Principal Senior Systems Engineer Laurel, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Administrator Principal Scientific Applications International Corporation January 2019 to Present System Administrator Principal and Senior technical lead on the NASA NASCOM Systems Team; designed, documented and tested the new VMware HA cluster/SAN environment to replace legacy Solaris, Linux and Windows standalone servers. Provides on-call Mission support to the NASCOM Network Management System. Senior System Administrator The Select Group July 2018 to January 2019 providing senior level IT system and engineering mission support to the SAIC NICs contract for NASCOM Systems at NASA Goddard Space Flight Center. Maintained Solaris, Linux, VMware Lab and production systems in support of NASCOM world-wide mission operational support. This was a temp-to-hire 6-month position to convert to SAIC prime. Senior Systems Engineer Enterprise Ventures Corporation December 2017 to May 2018 Senior Systems Engineer and Data Scientist providing IT and data analysis support to an All-source Intelligence Analysis Program Office at the DIA. Maintained Solaris and Linux Development/Testing and Production Virtual Machines in a high-tempo, Mission Essential operations environment that supports over 2,000 DoD users World-Wide. Senior Systems Engineer Digital Management Inc July 2017 to December 2017 UNIX (Solaris, Linux) Senior Systems Administrator supporting a variety of DISA DISN OSS-EMS Network Management Applications and Systems. Wrote and tested implementation plans for application installs and updates, and IAVM patching. Coordinated customer requirements gathering, system and application design, implementation and testing Senior Systems Engineer Advanced Enterprise Solutions, Inc March 2004 to July 2017 Senior Systems Engineer for the DIA Criss Cross Program Office to include: SA and DBA support to their Solaris/Linux/Windows environment, Big Data Analytics, collection, dataflow and ETL; Major IC Application and MySQL database support; server and client installation and support; system and account security and auditing; web administration and web development. Senior Systems Engineer Scientific & Engineering Solutions March 2001 to March 2004 System Engineering support for DIA Criss Cross Program Office to include: SA and DBA support to their SUN Enterprise 25K, 10K, SunFire 6800, Windows servers and workstations; Criss Cross Application support; server and client installation and support; system and account security and auditing; web administration and web development; Company site lead for DIA. Senior Systems Engineer Scientific Applications International Corporation May 1997 to March 2001 5/1997 - 3/2001  System Engineering support to Enterprise network of SUN, Intel-based PCs, and AIX computer systems for major DOD agency. Senior Technical Advisor and team leader of desktop support team for UNIX systems. System, Database and Web Administrator for SAIC off-site computer systems, to include SGI, SUN, Intel-based PCs running SunOS, Solaris, IRIX, Windows 95/98/NT, and Novell. Branch chief of SAIC System Administrators that worked at SAIC facilities and various offices within a major DOD agency; SAIC Division Manager Trained. Senior Systems Engineer NSA - Fort Meade, MD June 1986 to May 1997 Various positions from June 1986 - May 1997:  • Senior Systems Engineer and team lead of system administrators responsible for integrating LAN and Systems Security; hardware and software configurations; and troubleshooting and problem solving in a Microsoft/UNIX/Novell environment. Designed and implemented the entire network architecture and topology for the Agency Finance and Accounting Office and its support elements.  • Intranet/Web Technology Architect - Evaluated various architecture proposals and began implementing a Java/Web-enabled Intranet solution for providing near real-time secure access to the Defense Finance and Accounting Time/Attendance and Payroll System for over 600,000 DOD employees.  • Database/Web Server Administrator - Installed, configured, and maintained an Oracle Database and Web Server for the Finance and Accounting Office. Led the effort to architect and implement the database schema for the team of program managers and programmers to migrate all non-mainframe-based Finance and Accounting Office applications from clipper/Dbase to Oracle.  • Enterprise Network Architect & Systems/Network Engineering Team Lead - Managed systems support personnel and designed integrated hardware/software/network solutions for the Finance and Accounting Office. Planned and led the effort to migrate an UNIX/Novell network environment to a Microsoft NT/UNIX/Novell Enterprise environment.  • Database/ System Administrator and Programmer - Installed and administered an Ingres Database on a development SUN server. Developed and deployed SQL and web-enabled applications for the General Counsel, External Affairs, and Inspector General Offices.  • Computer Operator and Programmer - Sun System Administrator and Senior Operator in computer systems operations center mentioned below. Co-architect of a command center used to remotely administer computer systems. Wrote various UNIX shell scripts and X11/Motif code to facilitate remote monitoring of same computer systems. Developed Cryptanalytic programs in the C programming language.  • High School Work Study - System Administrator of a large computer operations center comprised of: CRAY X-MP and Y-MP supercomputers; CONVEX Cl, HP 1000, CDC CYBER 176, CDC 7600, CDC 180/85, UNISYS 2200/622, UNIVAC 1100/82, and PDP 11/40 computer systems. Education None in Computer Science University of Maryland-Baltimore County None in Computer Science University of Maryland-College Park None in Computer Systems National Cryptologic School Skills Apache (10+ years), Linux (10+ years), Ms DOS (10+ years), VMware (5 years), Novell Netware (5 years), Oracle (5 years), Solaris (10+ years), Apache Tomcat (10+ years), Web server (10+ years), HP OV NNM (1 year), Micro Focus Network Automation (Less than 1 year), Sybase (10+ years), ESXi (5 years), Nagios (1 year), Bacula (1 year), RSA Securid (1 year), Sendmail (10+ years), Postfix (1 year), DNS (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Visio (5 years), Solaris Volume Manager (5 years), Remedy (10+ years), Sun Cluster (5 years), CTPView (Less than 1 year), MySQL (5 years), PKI (10+ years) Military Service Branch: Army Reserves Service Country: United States Rank: E-4 February 1992 to June 1998 Army CH-47 medium helicopter repairman. Assigned to Tipton Army Airfield, Fort Meade MD. Commendations: Honorable Discharge Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ FEDVTE Linux+ Additional Information Mr. Morgan has over 20 years of experience in: System Engineering; Systems and Database Administration; Information Systems Security; WEB Server Administration; WEB development; programming; product evaluation; troubleshooting; and maintenance of data systems in various Enterprise networking environments at the DOD, NASA and with commercial clients.    Information Technology Training/Certifications:  • Math, Computer Science, Security (UMCP/UMBC)  • Introduction to Cryptography (National Cryptologic School)  • Super-computer Systems Operations  (National Cryptologic School)  • Advanced System Administration  (National Cryptologic School)  • Oracle Database Administration (Oracle Education)  • Oracle Performance and Tuning (Oracle Education)  • Oracle Backup and Recovery (Oracle Education)  • SUN Solaris System Administration I (SUN Microsystems)  • SUN Veritas Volume Manager (SUN Microsystems)  • SUN Cluster 2.2 (SUN Microsystems)  • SUN Enterprise 10000 Administration (SUN Microsystems)  • SUN Fire 6800 Administration (SUN Microsystems)  • SUN Managing Storage Area Networks (SUN Microsystems)  • SUN E25K High-End Server Administration (SUN Microsystems)  • Sybase ASE Administration and SQL (Sybase)  • CompTIA Security+ (CompTIA)  • Linux Operating System Security (FEDVTE)  • VMware vSphere 6.5: Install, Configure, Manage (VMware Education)