Associate Systems Administrator Associate <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Administrator Nashville, TN I specialize in storage and data protection. Experienced with multiple backup applications across Windows/Linux/AIX platforms. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Associate Systems Administrator Community Health Systems - Brentwood, TN January 2015 to Present At my current position as associate systems administrator I provide data center support and operations, specializing in data protection. Working with a variety of software tools, I work to ensure patient data is protected and preserved. I am proficient in IBM Tivoli Storage Manager (Spectrum Protect), EMC Data Protection Suite (Avamar, Data Domain, Data Protection Advisor) and Falconstor VTL. In addition to this, I am responsible for customer incident ticket resolution, daily backup operational and project oversight. I work consistently with Windows and Linux servers, and regularly work with outside vendors to ensure proper patient care. Residential Counselor Mental Health Cooperative - Nashville, TN December 2008 to January 2015 As a Resident Counselor, I was responsible for the continued safety and well-being of people in acute mental health and addiction-related crises. I provided quality client care through face-to-face interaction, group therapy, and overall management of the unit. I was responsible for ensuring client safety, building client rapport, providing an atmosphere of healing and recovery, and managing any crises as they arise. With my coworkers, I helped create a therapeutic milieu that promoted individual growth and positive change. I regularly assisted clients on an individual basis, connecting them with resources specific to their particular need. I regularly met and exceeded company standards, having earned continual merit-based increases each year since starting. Through this job, I was able to practice time management, conflict resolution, and patience. Since starting as a Resident Counselor, I helped to successfully train new employees, and maintained good standing with my fellow team members and superiors. General Manager Chick-fil-A - Nashville, TN August 2007 to December 2008 After having worked there as a teenager in high school, I returned after graduating college to take over the position of general manager. As general manager I was responsible for the essential daily functions and upkeep of a quick-service restaurant. These responsibilities include, though are not limited to: maintaining excellent customer service, overseeing of more than twenty-five employees of varied ages and levels of experience, performance of financial responsibilities such as daily sales and bank deposits, implementation of marketing initiatives and corporate challenges, inventory tracking, quality control, shipping and receiving, coordinating outside catering sales and deliveries, scheduling labor and employee hours, communication with the corporate office, cooperation with neighboring retailers for cross-promotional incentives, and the general supervising of the overall operational excellence, in keeping with company standards. Education Bachelor of Science in Psychology and Learning Welch College - Nashville, TN Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), Data Protection (4 years), Servers (4 years), Vmware (1 year), System Admin (4 years), System Administrator (4 years) Awards Service Award 2013-12 Award from Mental Health Cooperative for five years of consecutive service. Additional Information RELEVANT SKILLS    • Excellent time management skills    • Effective communicator and quick learner    • Class D Motor Vehicle License with For-Hire Endorsement