Linux Administrator Linux <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Linux Administrator - Community Force Work Experience Linux Administrator Community Force - San Antonio, TX April 2019 to Present Maintain Centos 7 Servers and Microsoft Windows Server 2016 Datacenter    Configuration and installation of software from Sandbox environment into a secure Microsoft Azure Environment.    Perform database administration tasks such as Patching, upgrade and configuration. Utilize Security Technical Implementation Guide (STIG) to harden systems (servers). Implement, enhance security for software, hardware, physical and logical architectures to further reduce vulnerabilities.    Perform PowerShell scripting to automate application installations utilizing Chef.    Develop and report enterprise level metrics for vulnerabilities and remediation progress. Work closely with Stakeholder Teams (Compliance, Windows, Linux, Network, Azure) to develop high value enterprise capabilities/results while reducing noise and false alarms.    Guide and support application teams with onboarding, troubleshoot and resolve implementation issues by working with system administrators, and vendor support.    Research and resolve security issues raised.    Oversee the setup and maintenance of staging/test environments.    Support Daily Sustainment activities for the Azure infrastructure such as log monitoring, Asset inventory and hardware usage report.    Intergrade Linux VMs to Microsoft Active Directory. Change Hostname of VMs as per VM name on Azure. Install required packages for AD integration. Configure resolv.conf and sssd.conf file and add user's account to sudoers file.    Create crontab job to run yum system updates (kernels, security updates). Install and configure java application.    Manage MS Windows 2016 DataCenter Servers, add server to AD Domain, create Windows Firewall Inbound and Outbound Rules. Edit Local Security Policy, create service accounts. Create and add user accounts to domain. Install applications, grant users access to severs and applications and folders. Systems Engineer for the Task Order U.S. Air Force - San Antonio, TX April 2015 to April 2019 to Support U.S. Air Force Civil Engineer Center's Information Technology Modernization Program NexGen.    System Administrator - Maintain Red Hat Linux Servers 6 & 7.  Configure resolve.conf file on new Linux servers. Install and configure operating systems and other software and routinely test installed software for glitch performance detection and other issues.    Review and redline application install instructions. Perform application and platform upgrades to stay compliant with current software vendor versions. Manage and monitor all installed systems and infrastructure.    Install, configure, test and maintain operating systems, application software and system management tools. Proactively ensure the highest levels of systems and infrastructure availability. Monitor and test application performance for potential bottlenecks, identify possible solutions and work with developers to implement those fixes. Maintain security, backup, and redundancy strategies.    Install and replace server certificates as well as updating DoD Certificate Administration (CA) and DoD JITC CA certificates in DBsign and IBM WebSphere.    Install and upgraded TRIRIGA NG via the IBM TRIRIGA Application Platform (CONSOLE Mode Installation). Installed the TRIRIGA NG component OMP updates and post-OMP instructions.    Create TRIRIGA accounts, reset password for TRIRIGA accounts. Stopping and Restarting the Application Servers via WebSphere. Deploying the application in WebSphere and configuring the TRIRIGA application server WAR file for SSO filter. Configure TRIRIGAWEB.properties    Install the CEDF Graphical User Interface into an Oracle 12cR2 Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7 (RHEL 7) environment.    Install the CEDF Gateway Services using the WebSphere Application Server Console.    Deploy DBSIGN update, CEDF core update and update for CEDF RICE (interface).    Update the system account passwords that must be changed every 60 days. All system account passwords are to be changed at the same time in compliance with policy.    Access VMware vCenter Server via VMware vSphere client to trouble shoot CIE Nexgen Linux VMs (reboot, snapshots, record console messages).    Install Yum updates on all new servers. Set persistent-net.rules, Verify and set new IPTABLE levels, update /etc/sysconfig/iptables and firewallD with required settings for Nexgen standards. Configure Auditing - /etc/audit/audit.rules. Configure Log Rotate, Update VMWare Tools. Create Red Hat Linux server accounts and add appropriate groups to user account. Reset Red Hat Linux passwords. Update new kernel version on Red Hat Linux Server 6 & 7. Create and maintain Linux command scripts.  Create and maintain system operational procedures (SOPs) and coordinate with Technical Writer to verify documents. Check /boot space and remove old kernel if necessary (if less than 50% available). Utilize AppDynamics to monitor Production Servers.    Remediate Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) on the Nexgen Linux Servers. Reboot VM and create snapshot of Linux Servers via VmWare Console. Apply patches to mitigate Spectre vulnerability on Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6 & 7.    Perform Production System Checks. Systems Administrator CACI International Inc - San Antonio, TX September 2010 to April 2015 for the Department of Defense contract.    System Administrator for Local Area Network, responsible for diagnosing and resolving computer and network related problems. Installs, upgrades, configures, tests, and maintains and supports Windows 2008 servers and Windows 2012 servers.    Administer and manages MS Windows DNS, DHCP services. Installs, upgrades, configures, tests, and maintains and supports Linux Red Hat Enterprise Server operating systems. Created Linux Kickstart servers and processes to automate and standardize the installation process, reducing installation time and post-installation errors.    Managed Active Directory, create security groups and distributions groups. Duties also include performing Helpdesk and Desktop level III support trouble shooting. Create and assigned SM7 tickets to perform IT requests. Establishes and maintains user accounts, assigns file permissions and establishes password and account policies.  VMware VCloud Director. Create, and provision new organizations as specified by customers. Naming the Organization and specify Organization LDAP options, added local users to the Organization, set Organization Catalog Publishing policy, configure Email preferences and Organization lease, quota, and limit settings. Set the Organization Catalog publishing policy. Allocate resources to an Organization Virtual Data Center (allocating storage, network pool, CPU's and memory). Create new vApp for the Organization and add new Virtual machines to the vApp. Configure the Virtual Machines that include adding CPU's, memory, storage and NIC.    Install the OS on the VM; add new computer objects to Active Directory. Add new Windows and Linux servers to the Active Directory domain.    Retina network security scanner. Installed and configure the Retina network security scanner. Duties include defining Retina network security scanner address groups, running discovery scans, running audit scans, configuring audit scans, selecting targets and output types, selecting ports, audits and audit options, and creating Retina network security scanner reports.    SCCM 2012 System Administrator, Provide SCCM administration services and patch management support services for enterprise servers; implement, updated, and maintain enterprise level configuration management products; analyzed the current enterprise configuration management implementation and provide a status report before and after remediation actions are engineered and executed; validate deployment plans for compliance within existing performance limitations of the enterprise servers' software; troubleshoot sites experiencing configuration management problems and document. Systems Administrator Artech Information Systems - Houston, TX May 2010 to August 2010 Client: HESS Corporation    Subcontracted by IBM Global Systems. Duties include administering and installing Windows 2003 and 2008 servers. Installed Red Hat Enterprise 4.8, and manually partition the disk drive using Disk Druid, setup network configuration, disable the firewall, SELinux.    Installed and configured IBM System Storage TS 3100, IBM Fabric Switch 2005-16B. Upgraded memory on the blade server for the Dell Power Edge M605, monitor and managed Dell chassis management controller.    Upgraded firmware for the I/O modules on the IBM Blade Center H chassis and manage and monitor the IBM BladeCenter H Advanced Management Module.    Upgrade BIOS firmware on the IBM x3650, configured Server array. Installed VMware ESX 4.0 and manually partition disk, configure SSH to permit root login and allow root to remote login by configuring firewall to allow incoming and outgoing. Setup Time Service and Service Console Memory, licensing and installed Intel quad port NIC drivers.    Migrated VMs across hosts within a HA cluster to perform maintenance tasks on ESXi hosts. Used VMware vMotion to eliminate application downtime from planned server maintenance by migrating running virtual machines between hosts.    Worked on the installation of NMI drivers on HP blade ESXi servers to eliminate PSoD. Created clones from existing VMs (both live and powered-off) Deployed VMs from Templates and customized their configurations as-needed. Responded to server down alerts in a timely manner and brought them up via HP iLO/ Dell DRAC.    Configured IBM Remote Supervisor Adapters on IBM System X systems and Dell iDRAC6 Enterprise for Dell PowerEdge R610 servers. Utilize Ghost to create Windows 2003 server images and deploy to new systems. Migrate 3.0 VM guest and data storage to 4.0 VM host. Systems Administrator Bravo Tech - Dallas, TX March 2010 to May 2010 Client: Billingsley Company    Duties included administering Microsoft Exchange 2003, Windows 2003 and 2008 servers, Terminal Services, Sonic Fire Wall, deploying Windows 7 workstations. Managed Active Directory, created security and distribution groups. Duties also included Helpdesk and Desktop level III support trouble shooting. Senior Systems Administrator Silverleaf Resorts - Dallas, TX December 2006 to October 2009 Duties included administrating, installing, configuring and debugging Microsoft Windows 2008, 2003, 2000 Servers and Terminal Services, MSSQL Server, Windows Server Update Services, DNS, DHCP, IIS Service, Windows XP Professional, Vista and Windows 7 workstations and RedHat Linux servers.    Utilized Citrix Xenserver in a Windows environment to consolidate servers. Utilize XenCenter to monitor, manage virtual machine and perform general administration. Create new Citrix Xenserver Windows template (By converting an existing VM into a new template.) Creating and provisioning virtual machines, as well as adjusting resource allocation to individual VMs.    Managed IBM SAN devices for storage and IBM Blade Center, created new Active Directory accounts and added users to appropriate security groups.    Migrated Novell Directory Services to Microsoft Active Directory Services, also administered, installed and configured system backups utilizing Veritas BackupExec and SyncSort, restored user data files, SQL Database and reattached.    Administered Symantec Anti-Virus for workstations, servers, and Sophos Anti-Virus for workstations, servers and installed and configured Network Access Control for the workstations.    Administer Internet filtering utilizing Barracuda Web filtering and WhatsUp to monitor the network, servers, and applications. Administer corporate Juniper firewall and configured VPN tunnels to remote offices.    Administered and configured the SSL Aventail VPN concentrator and RSA SecurID Server. Duties also included Helpdesk and Desktop level III support trouble shooting. System Administrator II WindStream Communications - Irving, TX August 2000 to October 2006 Duties included administrating, installing, configuring and debugging Microsoft Windows 2003, 2000 Server and Terminal Services, MSSQL Server, Windows Server Update Services, DNS, DHCP Service, Windows XP, Windows 2000 Professional workstations and Windows NT 4.0 and RedHat Linux servers.    Created Visual Basic, DOS command line Scripts. Successfully planned and tested disaster recovery scenario at a Sunguard off site location.    Utilized VMware ESX Server in the Windows environment to consolidate servers and EMC SAN devices for storage, created clones from existing VMs. Deployed VMs from Templates and customized their configurations as-needed.    Create new Active Directory accounts and added users to the appropriate security groups. Administered, installed and configured system backups utilizing Veritas Netbackup Data Center 5.1 and 4.6 and Backup Exec to backup Windows and Linux clients, installed and configured StorageTek L20, L40 and L180 tape libraries.    Administer Symantec Anti-Virus for workstations, servers and Symantec Mail Security, and Iron Mail. Administer Microsoft Exchange 2000 and 2003, Systems Management Server and network printers, enabled and change ports settings on Cisco switches.    Administer Internet filtering via WebSense. Administered WhatsUp to monitor the status of the network, servers, and applications and created alerts to page, e-mail administrators.    Installed, configured and administered FaxPress servers and Castelle FaxPress 2500 and 5000 devices. Installed, configured IP KVM and administered DSView Manager. Duties also included Helpdesk and Desktop support supervisor\team lead and level III trouble shooting. Created Ghost images for Windows NT, 2000 and XP workstations. Server Engineer EDP Contract Services - Irving, TX December 1999 to July 2000 Client: Nissan Motor Acceptance  Duties included System administration, installing and configuring Microsoft Windows NT 4.0 and NetWare 4.11 servers, DNS, DHCP Service. Created Visual Basic, DOS command line Scripts.    Administered system backups utilizing ArcServe for Windows NT and NetWare and performed troubleshooting, testing, and analysis of Windows NT 4.0 workstations and servers. Created Ghost images and re-imaged Windows NT workstations. Duties also included Helpdesk and Desktop level III support trouble shooting Immigration and Naturalization Service Contract Services U.S. Air Force - Harlingen, TX May 1996 to December 1999 Server Engineer    Employed by staffing agencies (Maxiumus, Wang Global) that obtained contracts to provide IT support for the U. S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.    Duties included installing, configuring, administering Novell NetWare 4.1 servers, DHCP Service and Microsoft NT Workstations at the Harlingen Texas District Office, Port Isabel Detention Center and the Harlingen District Port of Entries.    Administered system backups utilizing Arc Serve for Novell Netware at the district office and remote locations. Created print queues and configured HP print servers. Performed the Desktop supervisor\team lead at the District Office and performed personnel management activities such as timesheet approval. Performed software setups on both stand-alone and network workstation configurations. Installed and configured desktop systems on NT Workstation 4.0 and MS Windows 95, MS Windows 98.    Duties encompassed managing multiple Lotus cc: Mail post offices, mailing lists, creating new email accounts, and troubleshooting errors within the post office database. Configuration included setting up the servers to meet INS standards for WAN connectivity, server security, and disaster contingency plans. Coordinating with Southwestern Bell with new circuits (such as T1, Frame Relay, X.25, 56K) and identify communication problems between sites. System Administrator APC Home Health Service - Harlingen, TX October 1993 to May 1996 Administered Novel Netware 3.12 and 4.1Servers and DNS, DHCP Service. Installed and configured Windows 3.11 workstations.    Developed security procedures regarding access to the LAN, created Novell accounts and groups for the Novell Netware system. Responsible for recommending new software applications, programming tools, hardware such as printers, modems, network hubs, and servers, database management software or user applications.    Installed computer hardware and trained staff on the application software. Solved technical problems related to software and hardware. Installed floppy drives, hard drives, and CD drives and other computer devices as required. Education Associate Degree Industrial Data Processing Technology Texas State Technical College - Harlingen, TX 1985