Unix/Linux Systems Engineer Unix/Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Unix/Linux Systems Engineer - Unisys Chester, VA Work Experience Unix/Linux Systems Engineer Unisys July 2006 to Present -Installed, configured, upgraded, and monitored servers running Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5,6,7, IBM AIX 5,6, Oracle Linux 5,6,7 and Solaris for the VITA program supporting over 600 servers.  -Built new servers by customer specifications to fulfill new requests using HP Blade Servers utilizing Red Hat Satellite Server.  -Built and managed servers using VMWare virtual server environment  -Participated in Disaster Recovery exercises to test Disaster Recovery procedures.  -Performed firmware upgrades on servers in HP enclosures and Cisco UCS enclosures.  -Upgraded servers with security patches utilizing Red Hat Satellite Server.  -Troubleshoot, analyze and resolve computer problems related to both hardware and software.  -Installed and configure enterprise tools such as NetBackup, Avamar, McAfee, Openview, Altiris, EMC PowerPath, Apache  -Upgrade and modify OS file- systems when new enterprise storage is added.  -Maintain inventory asset database with correct information.  -Maintain documentation for training purposes.  -Assisted with integration and movement of servers from remote sites to enterprise data center.  -Assisted with migrations of local legacy storage systems to enterprise storage systems.  -Utilized linux bash shell scripting to perform automating of system tasks including filesystem syncing and movement, secure file transfer, log file editing and reformatting, finding and deleting obsolete files, and system process monitoring.  -Managed customer requests, projects, incidents, change controls using ServiceNow software  -Wide experience with ITIL principles and processes.  -Established customer relationships to determine requirements and create new solutions.  -Developed Scrum Master position for Unix/Linux group to help manage open incidents and project tasks. Unix/Linux Systems Administrator Virginia Information Technologies Agency August 2004 to July 2006 - installed, configured, upgraded and monitored Red Hat Enterprise Linux 3,4,5 to support agency applications using Oracle j2ee application software and Oracle databases, including E-Business running Dell hardware. Participated in migration from applications running on HP-UX OS to running Linux on Dell hardware for the Virginia Department of Education.  - Integrated agency applications with Red Hat Linux and with Novell messaging software.  -Managed and monitored agency applications such as agency intranet, internet web site, dns services, sendmail and system monitoring.  -Managed HP EVA 3000 SAN which housed all agency databases.  -Managed system backups and restores using HP Data Protector software Unix Systems Administrator Virginia Department of Juvenile Justice August 2000 to August 2004 -Supported users for JTS juvenile tracking system on Oracle databases running client server application IBM AIX 4 OS. Installed, configured, upgraded Red Hat Enterprise Linux Versions 2 and 3 to support migration to three tier application architecture for Oracle 9i Forms and Reports and Oracle databases.  -Installed and configured Red Hat Linux to support agency applications such as Oracle Forms and reports, agency intranet, web portal using apache and html, perl, DNS services, and network printers.  -Installed Dell and HP Servers to have available for agency environments. Software Support Engineer Integrated Computer Systems May 1999 to August 2000 -Supported Medical Manager software for customer base of physician offices for the state of Virginia both remotely and on-site.  -Installed and application software on HP/Compaq hardware using SCO Unix.  -Patched and upgraded application software when necessary  -Trained users on functionality of software Data Processing Manager MicroMagnetic Corporate Express February 1992 to February 1999 -Manged Data Processing system for Computer and Office Supply company.  -Oversaw all aspects of computer operations including enterprise software configuration and user support on IBM AIX OS and hardware.  -Developed new user modules for EDI transmissions and manufacturing in application software  -coordinated transition from dumb terminals to PC's and migration of systems to new data architecture after company acquisition. Systems Manager A. E. Finley and Associates of Virginia July 1986 to February 1992 Responsible for day to day operations of company enterprise software system supporting all users in their daily functions for heavy construction equipment dealer with four locations.  -Ensure all data processing functions were completed and accurate including backups, equipment troubleshooting including terminals, printers and modems.  - Developed modifications to application software to create new functionality to application software Education BS in Commerce University of Virginia 1980