Manager of Systems Support Manager of <span class="hl">Systems</span> Support Manager of Systems Support - USC/ITS Fullerton, CA Work Experience Manager of Systems Support USC/ITS October 2013 to Present Oversee, maintain, upgrade USC/ITS' enterprise storage includes a zero  downtime implementation and migration to new Compellents SAN over the past year  ? Participate in design and upgrade of ITS' VMWare clusters from 5.5 to 6.5  including migration to Arista network and modern firewall architecture  ? Lead a staff of seven+ system engineers to provide excellent customer  service, ensure system stability and availability  ? Oversee and guide the maintenance, optimization and upgrade of Windows  and Linux servers supporting USC's central IT core services including  directory, IAM, DHCP, student labs, financial systems, collaboration  platforms, office 365 synchronization and authentication  ? Establish a regular patching schedule including a policy for automatic  updates for servers supporting resilient fault tolerant services  ? Lead a team of skilled cross platform engineers to provide excellent  customer support, incident response and system reliability  ? Modernized USC's enterprise data protection moving to Rubrik from NetBackup. Rubrik is a backup appliance that indexes data for ease of  retrieval and automatically send an encrypted copy of backups to the cloud (AWS in this case)  ? Coordinate schedule and manage resources related to re-IP of systems for S|C (secure connected project) Dornsife College Systems Manager USC/Dornsife September 2006 to October 2013 Led a staff of 3 to support Dornsife College's IT infrastructure    ? Implemented, maintained, upgraded enterprise collaboration, GroupWise, email, calendaring, file shares  ? Establish a platform for Dornsife College web services built on IBM blade  servers, Isilon storage and SuSe Linux  ? Implemented, maintained, upgraded distance learning platform for USC  Spatial Sciences deployed on VMWare and Citrix  ? Implemented, maintained, upgraded desktop management services using  Windows deployment services to perform a scripted install of OS and applications and ZenWorks to deploy local computer account provisioning,  policy and updates  ? Modernized computing and storage infrastructure from a half rack of deprecated servers to a redundant clustered architecture using IBM  blades, Xiotech fiber channel storage and Isilon iSCSI and NFS.  ? Achieved 70% virtualization by 2012 using successive versions of VMWware  starting at 3.5 and ending with 5.5  ? Moved Dornsife compute infrastructure from department server room to USC's primary data center in 1 weekend, services were 100% available  Monday start of business  ? Pioneered first mobile device integration with enterprise collaboration  platform on campus (GWSYNC provides calendar and email sync to IOS  devices)  ? Migrated 1500 + Groupwise accounts to Office 365 using commercial tools  and internal directory attribute tools to set mail attributes Systems Administrator II USC/ITS August 2000 to September 2006 Enterprise collaboration server maintenance and upgrades  ? Provide excellent customer service helping customers with network and service delivery issues  ? Implemented data protection/backup services using netbackup and StorageTek tape library  ? Upgrade and deploy Novell Netware servers and clusters  ? Install and maintain SEVIS system used to maintain a database on foreign  students PC Technician / LAN Administrator RR Donnelley & Sons January 1995 to August 2001 Torrance California - Commercial Printing Plant  ? Local area network LAN administration, account creation, permissions  management, printing, email administration, data protection  ? Desktop support, network connectivity troubleshooting  ? Y2K remediation  ? Deploy and upgrade windows and Novell servers Education education Professional Institute Skills Itil, Active directory, Edirectory, Nfs, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vmware, Linux, Compellent, Nas, Perl, Scripting, Bash, Brocade Additional Information SKILLS  - 11 years experience -Basic Bash, PERL and -Rubrik backup  leading IT teams Powershell scripting appliance AWS  -VMWare 3.5 - 6.5 -Linux SuSe Ubuntu -Service-Now ITIL  -Storage technologies -RHEL Centos -Qlogic Brocade  -NT 3.51 -2016 Server -TCP/IP XioTech NAS FS8600  -Active Directory -Compellent Isilon SMB NFS  -eDirectory