Business Analyst Business Analyst Business Analyst New York, NY Detail-oriented Business Analyst with experience gathering comprehensive requirements, coordinating with developers, vendors, and diverse stakeholders. Maintains positive, productive stakeholder relationships at all levels from end user to executive management. Fosters deep knowledge of business functions and processes to ensure  project success. Successfully migrated legacy applications to modern software platforms. Brings valuable perspective of the business owner through numerous projects with the Senate Sergeant at Arms, defining, reviewing, and approving requirements, and evaluating and piloting solutions. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Business Analyst GovPilot - Hoboken, NJ 2017 to 2019 ? Responsible for gathering, compiling, and synthesizing business requirements, documentation and use cases for various government client projects ranging from large to small and responsible for build out, implementation and support of requirements  ? Facilitate stakeholder meetings with project teams  ? Monthly check in with stakeholders regarding their post-implementation satisfaction with our products  ? Analyze existing business practices and requirements and document and manage requirements through the full project lifecycle in an Agile environment  ? Create business process flow diagrams via MS Visio and Lucidchart to represent project flow and goals  ? Implement and train in person and/or via screen share over 30+ GovPilot projects which require presentations in front of large groups and high-level officials within municipal governments and provide continuing support upon delivery  ? Perform QA of projects, new features and system as needed with QA team for engineering team  ? Support client towns and municipalities throughout the United States and Canada Systems Administrator Office of United States Senator Al Franken - Washington, DC 2012 to 2017 ? Oversaw IT Operations for Senate office, which includes duties ranging from technical support, procurement, vendor management and IT policy formation  ? Drove migration from Windows File Server to SharePoint, which resulted in providing the office's first document management, enterprise search, knowledge sharing, and process management system  ? Managed the project lifecycle from initial analysis to test and implementation  ? Collaborated with cross-functional business stakeholders and vendor  ? Managed project budget of $100,000 to deliver SharePoint site and saved $30,000 annually by choosing the most cost-effective SharePoint support vendor  ? Organized monthly meetings with 5-person executive management team to review project statuses  ? Provided training workshops to staff groups of 10 to 15 in DC and Minnesota offices  ? Collaborated with United States Senate Rules and Administration Committee on compliance and regulation reform Systems Administrator Office of United States Senator Maria Cantwell - Washington, DC 2010 to 2012 ? Managed IT Operations for Office of Senator Cantwell, providing technical support, procurement services, vendor management and IT policy formation  ? Controlled $100,000 annual IT budget  ? Initiated business process project to uncover inefficiencies within the organization  ? Highlighted 12% loss in staff productivity due to duplication of effort on memos and reports to the Senator  ? Developed best practices guide for executive management team for introducing document management and accompanying business rules based on Senate office interviews Staff Assistant Office of United States Senator Maria Cantwell - Seattle, WA 2007 to 2010 Education Bachelor of Arts in Political Science UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON - Seattle, WA 2007 Skills HTML, VISIO, MICROSOFT PROJECT, MICROSOFT SHAREPOINT, SHAREPOINT, MS OFFICE, MAPPING, VENDOR MANAGEMENT, BUSINESS ANALYSIS, MICROSOFT VISIO, DOCUMENTATION Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/peter-perez