System Administrator, Senior Professional <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>, Senior Professional System Administrator, Senior Professional Santa Barbara, CA To acquire a position where solutions-oriented, results-driven skills and experience will increase effectiveness and add value in a dynamic team environment. My expertise is the architecture, planning, implementation and support of secure, efficient, and reliable IT infrastructures enabling customers to meet their business, technology and security goals. Willing to relocate. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Administrator, Senior Professional United Technologies Corp. Account June 2015 to June 2019 • Subject Matter Expert for Active Directory and Wintel Systems Support, exceeding customer expectations in designing, implementing, and supporting Windows Active Directory and Wintel computer environments.  • Effectively completed infrastructure migrations for numerous business units and corporate acquisitions, moving their users, workstations, servers and applications from legacy sites and networks of over 10000 end points while updating corporate infrastructure.  • Met server availability goals in a 24x7 environment while managing all aspects of Windows servers including security, data management, client/server and application support, administration of Active Directory, backup/restore, patch management, virus protection, successfully resolving technical problems and direct customer support. System Administrator, Senior Professional Computer Sciences Corporation (CSC), GIS / AMSC - BHP Billiton Account Team June 2012 to April 2015 • Maintaining and upgrading BHPs infrastructure and its Windows Active Directory services, security, applications, and computing platform improving the customers IT and business capabilities.  • Successfully supported a wide variety of projects from server refreshes, data storage migrations, business unit migrations, and updating the Citrix environment. Applied numerous upgrades and enhancements to the desktop operating environment via GPO management.  • Improved efficiencies by developing common processes and procedures for the Active Directory and Wintel infrastructure. System Administrator, Senior Professional Computer Sciences Corporation, GSS / Zurich Account Team November 2010 to June 2012 • Lead for Wintel Systems and Active Directory for multiple domains, managing DFS, ADFS, accounts, OUs and Security. Exceeded customer expectations designing, installing, configuring, and supporting Wintel servers in both physical and VMWare environments. This included customizing servers to support a various roles such as hosting web servers, information repositories, and data base applications.  • Successfully consolidated and virtualized 50% of the business units Wintel environment by migrating their servers into a centralized data center. This included everything from project planning activities to server builds, application migrations, infrastructure hardening, related Active Directory and VMWare functions and associated infrastructure changes to support the moves. Partnered with customers, vendors, data centers and other CSC teams to perform these transitions with minimal impact to the customer.  • Accomplished design, testing, and implementation of Computer Associates Access Control security application for Active Directory and related servers and end points for Zurich Financial Services. System Administrator, Senior Professional Computer Sciences Corporation April 2005 to November 2010 • As an Active Directory Engineer, successfully implemented projects for a wide variety of initiatives from designing new Active Directory environments to updating and increasing capabilities, improving security and expanding service offerings of both business units and technical teams. External clients include General Dynamics, Washington Mutual, and Pan America Life Insurance.  • Successfully completed active directory migrations for numerous CSC business units and corporate acquisitions (i.e. Covansys, BearingPoint), moving all infrastructure from proprietary sites and networks into membership in CSC's active directory infrastructure, supporting CSC's vision for a single, comprehensive global network.  • Maintaining and improving CSC's global infrastructure and its Windows Active Directory services, security, applications, and computing platforms around the world increasing productivity, leveraging access to data and applications, and ensuring the security and integrity of information.  • Increased effectiveness by developing common processes, procedures and documentation for the CSC global active directory infrastructure. Systems Administrator, Distributed Systems Lead, Security Administrator Computer Sciences Corporation, General Dynamics Land Systems Account - Goleta, CA July 1998 to April 2005 Goleta, CA 07/1998 - 04/2005  Systems Administrator, Distributed Systems Lead, Security Administrator  • Reduced hardware costs by consolidating servers and implementing a Storage Area Network solution.  • Supported corporate consolidations / mergers by successfully completing multiple IP subnet and Active Directory migrations from General Motors to General Dynamics.  • Improved server environment by upgrading hardware and migrating Windows NT 4 servers to Windows 2000 and implementing Active Directory.  • Enhanced server environment by replacing Novell servers with Windows NT 4 reducing hardware costs by 50%.  • Developed metrics, capacity management and reliability reports. Systems Administrator, PC Support Electronic Data Systems - Goleta, CA April 1994 to July 1998 • Increased productivity for over 1300 end users by implementing and supporting numerous departmental Novell 3.11, 3.12 and 4.0 servers replacing old mid-range and mainframe servers.  • Improved desktop performance for end users by upgrading from Windows 3.11 to Windows 95 and Windows NT and upgrading MS office.  • Upgraded engineering processes by designing, implementing, and managing site wide network and application changes such as TCP/IP Class conversions and installing cross platform UNIX to Windows access tools.  • Enhanced cross training of support team by developing and documenting common processes for supporting users.  • Developed metrics, capacity management and reliability reports. Education Technical Certification in Computer Science Control Data Institute - Southfield, MI Skills Active directory, Citrix, Client-server, Clustering, Wintel Servers (10+ years), System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin, Linux Additional Information SKILL SUMMARY  Technical Knowledge:  Windows Systems Administration and Support, Active Directory Engineering, Information Security, Group Policies, SCCM, DNS, DHCP, WINS, DFS, ADFS, Systems Architecture, Server Virtualization, VMWare, Hyper-V, NetApp, Citrix, end user support, project management, client-server computing, firewalls, server hardening and remediation, disaster recovery, Microsoft SQLServer, Microsoft Office, PowerShell, Microsoft Project, Lotus Notes, Visio, Access, clustering, HP OpenView and infrastructure management tools, Microsoft Operations Manager, LINUX, Veritas, Brightstore, Shavlik, Dameware, Ghost, E-Trust, McAfee and Symantec Anti-Virus software, Remedy, ServiceNow.    Server operating systems: Windows 2016, 2012, 2008, 2003, 2000, VMWare, NT 4, Novell    Desktop operating systems: Windows 10, Windows 8, Windows 7, Vista, Windows XP, 2003, 2000, NT 4.0    PC / Server Platforms: HP, Dell, IBM, VMWare, Lenovo, Sony, EMC.    Competency Strengths:    • Analytic  • Problem solving  • Attention to details  • Project management  • Multi-tasking  • Creativity  • Interpersonal skills  • Client Interface  • Quality Assurance  • Process Improvement