GMP Coordinator GMP Coordinator GMP Coordinator - Mars Chocolate North America Carbondale, KS Work Experience GMP Coordinator Mars Chocolate North America - Topeka, KS 2016 to Present • Coordinate GMP program  ? Helped develop the GMP SharePoint for the Topeka site to create better visibility to the leadership and extended leadership to open actions and follow-ups.  ? Create and maintain GMP inspection schedule to ensure that every area is inspected once a month.  ? Train and calibrate inspectors to Mars Topeka good manufacturing practices. Teach the GMP team how to use the SharePoint to enter their inspections.  ? Collaborate with the leads in closing open GMP findings. A few examples of areas that are improved by the GMP inspections are color coding, 5S program, identify cleaning gaps, chemical control.  ? Train new hires to the GMP requirements for the site. The effectiveness of the new hire training is measured by the GMP inspections.  ? Report GMP periodic metrics to leadership team. Report out site average, open/closed GMP findings by area/age.  • Management of Pest Control program  ? Identify gaps and scope for improvements.  ? Primary contact for required bi-annual pest control audits  ? Weekly opening and closing meetings with pest specialist  ? Communicate recommendations observed during weekly visits  ? Collaborate with the teams in closing of recommendations in a timely manner.  ? Worked with pest Control Company to enhance the services being provided to meet Mars standards.  • Sanitation  ? Oversight of Janitorial Contract  * Ensure janitorial program has the required documentation and training. This includes work instruction, training records, and a way to measure competency.  * Identify and Communicate gaps to janitorial manager. Perform area walks to ensure gaps were fixed effectively.  * Verification of cleaning  ? Master Sanitation Program for the site  * Weekly completion percentage - This includes area walks to check paperwork and to confirm that tasks are being completed as specified.  ? CIP verification with Eco-Lab  * Primary contact for Eco-Lab rep  * Periodic visits and inventory with Eco-Lab rep  * Chemical titrations to ensure proper concentration of chemicals are being dispensed. Quality Systems Operator 2015 to 2016 • Manage Nonconformances, Traceability and Document Control  • Lead Meetings, trainings, and back up Sensory  • Track and analyze Holds to completion, and disposition of held product  • Work with the warehouses and VS to coordinate testing of held products. Quality Systems and Complaint Coordinator Innovia Films Inc - Tecumseh, KS 2011 to 2015 • Entered and communicated complaints to the sites. Worked with management and customers to gather evidence, and provide feedback.  • Worked with Technical Service Manager to establish disposition of complaint product and provide credit notes to the customers.  • Site contact for ISO9001 auditor.  • Coordinated and issued corrective and preventive actions.  • Lead monthly complaints meetings  • Participate in Scorecard meetings including percent claims vs total sales, and on time resolution of complaints and corrective actions.  • Participated in the internal audit program including hygiene audits.  • Lead Auditor for ISO9001-2008 Quality Systems Administrator 2006 to 2011 • Provided Certificates of Analysis to Customers  • Worked with the lab to coordinate testing for analysis  • Managed Internal Audit Program, and internal/external corrective actions.  • Managed Calibrations internal/external.  • Lab analysis, statistical analysis of process Education Santa Fe Trail High School - Carbondale, KS 1994 to 1998 Skills Audits, Internal audits, Nexus, Gmp, Sharepoint, Sap, Excel, Microsoft office, Powerpoint, Food safety Additional Information Skills  • Active member in Food Safety Team, Internal audits, GMP inspector/coordinator, Sensory, Quality trainings, Contractor trainings  • Knowledgeable in SAP and Nexus  • Proficient in Microsoft Office including Excel Spreadsheets, PowerPoint presentations and SharePoint.  • Lead Auditor Certification for ISO9001-2008  • Self-Motivated and can work well individually as well with a team