IT Systems Administrator IT <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Systems Administrator - Gibbs and Cox Maritime Solutions Inc Williamsburg, VA Work Experience IT Systems Administrator Gibbs and Cox Maritime Solutions Inc 2017 to Present • Support LANs, WANs, network segments, Internet, and intranet systems.  • Maintain system efficiency.  • Ensure design of system allows all components to work properly together.  • Troubleshoot problems reported by users.  • Make recommendations for future upgrades.  • Maintain network and system security.  • Analyze and isolate issues.  • Monitor networks to ensure security and availability to specific users.  • Evaluate and modify system's performance.  • Identify user needs.  • Maintain integrity of the network, server deployment, and security.  • Ensure network connectivity throughout a company's LAN/WAN infrastructure is on par with technical considerations.  • Design and deploy networks.  • Perform network address assignment.  • Assign routing protocols and routing table configuration.  • Assign configuration of authentication and authorization of directory services.  • Maintain network facilities in individual machines, such as drivers and settings of personal  computers as well as printers.  • Maintain network servers such as file servers, VPN gateways, intrusion detection systems.  • Administer servers, desktop computers, printers, routers, switches, firewalls, phones, personal  digital assistants, smartphones, software deployment, security updates and patches.  • Maintain and monitor existing systems.  • Set up new computer systems.  • Provide end-user support and training via phone and in person.  • Diagnose and troubleshoot system problems.  • Maintain continuity of day-to-day service for end users and remote users.  • Management of daily IT/IS issues and concerns.  • Active Directory administration  • System Administration  • Issue PIV-I credentials/badges to new employees  • Microsoft Exchange Server administration  • Conduct network troubleshooting to segregate and identify general network problems  • Install software, maintain and introduce training as needed  • Maintain and update documentation of procedures and configurations.  • Manage inventory related to hardware, software and other IT supplies. IT Business Systems Analyst Vitex Packaging Group 2016 to 2017 • Document and implement IT policies and procedures.  • Define and implement new IT initiatives.  • Maintain and monitor existing systems.  • Set up new computer systems.  • Provide end-user support and training via phone and in person.  • Diagnose and troubleshoot system problems.  • Maintain continuity of day-to-day service for end users and remote users.  • Management of daily IT/IS issues and concerns.  • Implement and lead process improvements through technology.  • Manage entire security ecosystem.  • Implement disaster recovery procedures.  • Responsible for data replication and restoration.  • Protect critical production systems as they are added to corporate network.  • Manage WSUS servers for automatic client-side configuration and updates.  • Implemented, configured, and monitor McAfee ePO Antivirus server. IT Help Desk Specialist Thomas Nelson Community College July 2015 to December 2015 • Troubleshot network connectivity issues.  • Gave presentations about computer software.  • Assisted students with computer related issues.  • Troubleshot hardware issues. Education B.S. in Information Systems Christopher Newport University May 2015 in Business Administration Christopher Newport University May 2015 B.A. in Psychology Edinboro University of Pennsylvania 2003 Skills Active directory, Dhcp (7 years), Tcp, Tcp/ip (7 years), Dns, Exchange (5 years), Iis, Html, Css, Database, Database design, Odbc, Sql, Ios, Voip, Microsoft exchange (5 years), Microsoft office, Windows 10 (7 years), Mac, Database management Additional Information Technical Skills  • Knowledge of standard systems operation and management practices.  • Database management, querying, and reporting (ODBC, SQL).  • Experience with Microsoft Technologies and platforms, including Windows 2007 and 2012 servers,  Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange Server, IIS.  • Microsoft Office 365, 2017, 2013, 2010, 2003.  • VOIP Telephone management and account administration.  • Experience with TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP.  • Windows 10, 8, 7, 2000, Vista, XP, Mac, IOS.  • Web development and management (HTML, CSS).  • Desktop Management techniques including Group Policy and remote OS installation.  • Computer hardware, software and printer troubleshooting/ repair.  • Network installation, configuration, and maintenance.  • Database design and implementation.  • WSUS configuration