Slot File Administrator Slot File <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Slot File Administrator - Sycuan Casino El Cajon, CA Become an asset to a company that will provide me an opportunity to use my experience to its fullest potential. Work Experience Slot File Administrator Sycuan Casino - El Cajon, CA 2002 to Present EGMs daily moves  To work with Slot Department at the daily movements of EGMS such as relocations, removes, conversions or installation of new EGMs.  • Daily verification / Audit of EGMs performed by slot technicians  Check settings on the casino floor and BlackBart system are accurate (on every new game or theme on the casino floor)  • Casino floor map update  AutoCAD management  • Documentation about every move on the floor (SFRF) and keep it on file.  • Mobile Application games list update Operations & Systems Supervisor IRI Mexicana - Culiacán, Sin., México and Monterrey, NL., México 1996 to 2001 Merchandise import procedures  Intercontinental Resources, Inc. (IRI) is an importing and exporting company for all types of on and off the road tires. My employment with IRI began in Culiacan, Sinaloa, Mexico and then transferred to Monterrey, N.L. Mexico when the new distribution center was opened. The import procedures were for merchandise imported from United States, Uruguay and Indonesia thru United States. The tasks consisted of preparing invoices, paying import duty fees, coordinating all shipments delivered to the forwarding agency and contacting trucking companies to have merchandise delivered to the warehouse.    • Inventory Management  Once merchandise was delivered to the warehouse it was added to the inventory to produce various reports to determine inventory status.  • Systems Maintenance  Maintain and update company's database, which consisted of adding new pricing, new merchandise and deleting discontinued items from inventory for special promotions. This process established a more accurate inventory, which the Sales, Receivables and Payables Departments depended upon. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey - SInaloa - Mexico August 1984 to December 1989 Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), Bilingual (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Revit Architecture 2016 Essentials August 2010 to Present It was designed to meet the learning needs with professional instructors, relevant content, authorized courseware, and ongoing evaluation by Autodesk.    Certificate No. 1ZOMQZOMZ5 AutoCAD 2005/2007 Level I July 2007 to Present Basic AutoCAD & LT - 2005/2007