Systems Engineer III <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer III Systems Engineer III Sierra Vista, AZ • UNIX systems administrator on AIX, RHEL and Solaris.  • Windows Server 2012 administration including IIS.  • ITIL: Break fix, Remedy ITSM, problem management, change management.  • Clustering with VCS, PowerHA and HACMP.  • Cisco UCS.  • Server virtualization using vSphere, ESX/ESXi.  • Disaster recovery ( system, storage and application). Extensive work with multiple groups during crisis situations.  • Shell scripting  • Systems documentation for both hardware and software systems.  • Microsoft Office 2016 suite of programs.  • Demonstrable communication skills, both written and verbal. Excellent customer service skills. Work Experience Systems Engineer III SOS International LLC - Fort Huachuca, AZ April 2019 to Present • Systems administration of RHEL web servers for RCC-C portal, Jira/SVN servers.  • Administration of IAVA, STIG/POA&M/DRE, ASI for the Web Development group. Lead Infrastructure Operations Analyst Bank of New York Mellon - Freeport, PA August 2009 to October 2018 • UNIX systems administration on Linux, AIX and Solaris systems.  • Break/fix on OS configuration and file systems.  • Clustering and virtualization experience using VMware, VCS, vSphere and ESX software.  • Heavy customer service and coordination with technical people from all facets of server systems, as well as end users.  Infrastructure Operations Analyst  • Implemented software change and release rollout on mid-range UNIX (Solaris, AIX), Linux and Windows platforms.  • Substantial troubleshooting and administration tasks on these operating systems as well as work with Oracle, Sybase and MySQL database systems.  • Extensive interfacing with end users and stake holders at all levels.  • Drove deployment of software and updates. Volunteer Bartlett House, Inc - Morgantown, WV December 2008 to May 2009 • Specified, installed and configured openSUSE Linux v.11 on a Dell server.  • Configured Samba server and backup service for networked PC's.  • Specified & installed new PC workstations and upgraded software base. UNIX Systems Administrator, Solaris Verizon Business - Melbourne, FL August 2006 to July 2007 • Administered 3 networks comprising 600+ nodes for Verizon Business, telecom and development networks.  • Successfully prepared Sun servers (hardware & software) for change to Daylight Savings Time which occurred in March, 2007. These machines included entire Sun Enterprise line through E10k. Network Systems Engineer, Solaris Central Data - Titusville, FL 2001 to June 2004 • Provided UNIX systems administration on entire Sun server line, including OS, Sun Cluster 3.0 and Sunray.  • System builds, extensive troubleshooting and customer support, disaster recovery, system maintenance, pre- and post- sales engineering.  • Provided on-site and remote support for academic, government and business-sector customers. Deployment of software and hardware systems to military, academic and private sector customers. Administrator for in-house server facility of NT and UNIX servers for "five nines" up-time.  • Extensive use of CA software in NOC operations. UNIX Systems Administrator, Solaris Lockheed Martin - Orlando, FL 2000 to 2001 UNIX Systems Administrator, Solaris, HP-UX, AIX AT&T - Lake Mary, FL 1999 to 2000 GIS Administrator, IS Manager, UNIX Systems Administrator Town of Hilton Head Island - Hilton Head Island, SC 1994 to 1998 Education Certificate Champlain College - Burlington, VT 2015 AS in Aerospace Technology Brevard Community College - Cocoa, FL 2006 BA in Computer Science Canisius College - Buffalo, NY 1994