Sr. Systems Engineer Sr. <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Sr. Systems Engineer Sulphur, LA To obtain a position with emphasis in System Engineering that will allow expansion of technical knowledge while utilizing my communication, leadership, and technical management skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Systems Engineer Imperial Health - Lake Charles, LA January 2016 to March 2018 Managing 3 data centers and 28 Urgent Care facilities in accordance to HIPAA compliance, while providing technical analysis and recommendations to CIO. Deployed WhatsUpGold network  monitoring system, Managed Engine, Unitrends backup, Barracuda Spam Filter, SonicWALL,  Digital Persona authentication technologies all in under 1 year. Supported SCCM, Cisco Call  Manager, Dell Equalogic SAN, PACS, Amkai, HP Procurve, VMware, and Cisco AP's, while keeping customer and vendor relations a priority in aligning IT with the businesses objective. Systems Engineer Sasol - Westlake, LA September 2011 to December 2015 Resolving over 2500 support tickets and supporting over 800 users while requiring limited  supervision. Major projects include creating disaster recovery plan for our data center machines and Windows 7 migration. Managed ePO virus definition updates and Endpoint installation for client  machines. Configured and resolved McAfee Endpoint Encryption issues on laptops. Managed users and computers within Active Directory and supported LAN connections including Cisco access  points and switches. Network/ Systems Administrator Apex Systems - Houston, TX April 2006 to August 2011 Contract to Sysco Corporation to support over 3000 remote and corporate users with technology  issues. Provided support on AS/400, UNIX, and Citrix platform environments. Managed Patrol  alarms for company Exchange and file servers administering to 148 warehouses. Reviewed turnover  logs from the previous shifts to determine critical needs. Worked in conjunction with over twenty IT  groups in the corporation to assist with system issues. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology DeVry University - Houston, TX September 2019 Associate in Information Technology in Information Technology Delta School of Business and Technology - Lake Charles, LA March 2006 Skills Vmware (4 years), Active Directory (10+ years), System Administrator (10+ years), SCCM (3 years), Cisco (4 years), DNS