Ambassador Manager Office 365 Ambassador Manager Office 365 Huffman, TX Highly effective individual that specializes in analytical based forward thinking and  motivation of technical staff in support/customer service based environments to ensure  accountability, timeliness, quality, and further develop a true customer-oriented  teamwork based culture within the structures of an organization. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Ambassador Manager Office 365 Experis November 2015 to Present Supervise a team of approximately 20 remote Service Desk support personnel in support of Microsoft Office 365.  Provide technical expertise to assist remote Service Desk support personnel with resolution of advanced technical issues.  Actively manage and respond to requests for service and incidents within the company ticketing system. Document all work performed within the requests.  Facilitate team meetings to promote communication and expectations.  Manage individual agent performance, development, and training through documentation, coaching, and personal goals  Work individually with remote Service Desk support personnel to develop more  affected and efficient work flow and delivery techniques.  Validate and report presence of all scheduled personnel, for each shift.  Exhibit leadership through personal responsibility, accountability, and teamwork  (Lead by Example)  Work directly with customers as a Service Desk support personnel in support of Microsoft Office 365. Systems Administrator Broadleaf Group October 2014 to October 2015 Audit compliance against standards on a regular basis and report results.  Manage the implementation of methodologies that will continuously improve  customer resolution efforts, manage customer perceptions, and build strong  customer relationships.  Actively manage and respond to requests for service and incidents within the company ticketing system. Document all work performed within the requests.  Ensure accurate and timely resolution for all assigned items and issues Owner Helpdesk Houston October 2010 to October 2014 Develop customer relationships to ensure we are meeting and exceeding SLA and customer expectations.  Interview and hiring of technical support personnel.  Supervise a team of remote and onsite support personnel.  Manage personnel to meet agreed upon service levels and customer needs based on available resources.  Facilitate team meetings to promote unified communication and understanding.  Promote customer service focus throughout the support personnel and ensure that  focus is reaching the customers through feedback.  Ensure the technical readiness of the team through communication and training.  Develop and implement corrective measures for support personnel not meeting  company standards in behavior, conduct, or performance.  Encourage team unity and technical leverage.  Measure and report on team performance. Sr. Systems/Network Administrator Houston Astros Baseball Club - Houston, TX November 2006 to November 2010 Managed IT related projects to include Wi-Fi implementation at Minute Maid Park,  VMware, Exchange upgrades, Ultipro upgrade, and more.  Develop and implement training for new technical support staff.  Author annual Technology goals and expectations each year.  Ensure accurate and timely resolution for all assigned items and issues.  Attend annual meetings with MLB to discuss and develop forward thinking for Technology in Major League Baseball.  Develop innovative ideas to increase productivity and business continuity.  Monitor and Audit service requests to ensure timely resolution of all tickets.  Work with service desk technicians to develop more efficient work habits.  Design and implement training to ensure the technical readiness of all service desk  support staff.  Build and support all Microsoft servers.  Configure and maintain all Cisco switches and routers.  Build and maintain on-Prem Exchange. Education associates C.E. King High School - Houston, TX 1994 Skills RETAIL SALES (7 years), training (10+ years) Additional Information SKILLS  Exceptional interpersonal Internal and external auditing  communication Accomplished in project management  Effective workflow management Conflict resolution  Excellent time management skills Project management  Exceptional telephone etiquette Client account management  Skilled trainer Effective leader  Effective problem solver Staff training/development  Customer-focused Consistently meet goals  Adherence to high customer service Analytical  standards Personable  Employee relations Procedure development  Performance evaluations Advanced problem solving  Creative Thinker Team building