Substitute Paraprofessional Substitute Paraprofessional Substitute Paraprofessional Howard Beach, NY Work Experience Substitute Paraprofessional Department of Education NY May 2019 to Present • Assist in the implementation of goals for the students and monitor their progress.  • Assisting students with specials needs as required (positioning, lifting, transferring, restraining, etc.)  • Ability to work effectively under the direction of others.  • Ability to work cooperatively with others.  • Willingness to assume any responsibilities appropriate for the position.  • Behave and speak in a professional manner at all times..  • Be proactive in matters relating to health and safety.  • Assist in the educational and social development of students under the direction and guidance of the teacher.  • Assist in the implementation of goals for the students and monitor their progress.  • Work with other professionals, such as speech therapist, social worker, occupational and physical therapists.  • Assist classroom teachers with maintaining student records.  • Support students with emotional or behavior concerns and assist them in developing appropriate social skills.  • Assist in the preparation and display of student work.  • Assist classroom teachers with copying items to support teaching Nanny Back Up Care At Home, Bright Horizons February 2019 to February 2019 Nanny New York, NY 2007 to 2018 Systems Administrator/ Operations The Maritime Financial Group, Barataria Trinidad and Tobago 1998 to 2007 Administrative Assistant functions re: Collection of Data and tracking inventory and SKU #'s Report generation using Microsoft Access  Report generation using AS400 Systems  Reporting on financials to Management  Report Analysis and fixing  POS systems and Inventory Management  Staff training on back office software  Working knowledge of Microsoft Word and Excel  Type at least 50 wpm (not as fast anymore)  Ability to multitask to meet deadlines  Great outgoing personality and friendly, positive attitude Systems Administrator Assistant Tru Valu Supermarket Ltd - Port of Spain, TT 1995 to 1998 Purchasing Clerk responsible for maintaining inventory using Magic and Platinum.    Promoted to the computer systems department as assistant to the IT Manager    Training staff on using updated systems.    Writing user manuals and staff training at different locations island wide.    Promoted to Store Manager responsible for the computerized inventory controls. Administrative Assistant Today's Optical - Port of Spain, TT 1992 to 1994 Filing, banking, inventory management  Staff management at Duty Free Shop in airport  Correspondence with foreign suppliers  Providing daily support to managers and employees  Assisting in daily office needs and managing the general office administrative activities.    Holiday Inn, Port of Spain Trinidad and Tobago  - Restaurant Supervisor  Inventory management  Reservations  Customer Service - a strong team leader with a caring and positive attitude and a passion for the hospitality industry. Restaurant Supervisor The Hotel Normandie, St. Ann's Trinidad and Tobago 1991 to 1992 Inventory management  Reservations  Customer Service - a strong team leader with a caring and positive attitude and a passion for the hospitality industry. Excellent organization and customer service skills  1990-1991 Education Certificate School of Continuing Studies (University of the West Indies) December 1989 to April 1990 Certificate St. George's College September 1981 to June 1986 Skills Inventory, Microsoft office, As400, Unix, Training, Staff training, Cash management, Powerpoint, CPR, Time Management, Teaching, Filing Additional Information SKILLS  Drink mixology  Inventory and cash management  Staff training  Staff management  Reservations  Assistant to Manager  Microsoft Office User Specialist  Unix  IBM AS400  IBM i5