Information Technology Specialist Information Technology Specialist Systems Administrator Sacramento, CA 14 years of experience with Windows systems administration including desktop support, network support, and server support. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Technology Specialist Independent Contactor - Sacramento, CA July 2019 to Present Working as an independent contractor. Currently assisting MSP with information transition. Systems Administrator One Community Health - Sacramento, CA December 2008 to June 2019 Managed network, server, and desktop environment for clients running Windows server 2008/2012/2016 and desktops running Windows 7/10. Worked with doctors, educators, and other health professionals to create solutions and bridge technology to fit their needs.    • Managed IT team with network and computer expansion to new clinic building with 140+ computers, 45+ printers, 9 switches, 20 WAPs, 60+ phones, and 4 waiting room TVs.  • Worked closely with IT vendor with migration from Sonic Wall and HP networking system to Cisco Meraki Firewall and switches. Assisted with install of Cisco Meraki Wireless system throughout building. Virtual environment was migrated from VMware to Hyper-V. Had to quickly learn and adapt to new system.  • Collaborated with EHR Team to work with OCHIN and migrate to Epic. Managed documentation project of all computers and printers, configured order transmittal groups for labs and printing, and uploaded to OCHIN portal.  • Worked closely with Telecommunications vendor to learn onsite Toshiba PBX System. Managed it for 10 years and then migrated us to a purely hosted Mitel PBX system. I also brought in new overhead paging system.  • Collaborated with marketing department and built Linux server for internal Joomla website running Apache, MySQL, and PHP.  • Initiated and completed project to separate Nextgen EHR production from testing and reporting environment. Built virtual system using VMware and worked with Nextgen to export SQL databases including nightly backups and restores.  • During major Nextgen upgrade I effectively migrated Nextgen from local client install to thin application on Terminal Servers 2008 R2.  • Managed 2012 R2 Active Directory Domain, DNS, DHCP, Exchange 2016, Terminal Servers, SQL Servers, and Group Policies.  • Administrated Laserfiche Document Management System, Vocera Communication System, and Sharepoint 2016 environment. Systems Administrator Nivius - Woodland, CA August 2006 to August 2008 Managed a network consisting of WYSE thin clients, desktops running Windows 2000 and XP Professional, and servers running Windows 2000 and 2003.  • Administered Active Directory, Exchange 2003, IIS, Print Server, DHCP, DNS, and SQL.  • Managed VOIP system running FreePBX and CISCO phones.  • Remotely diagnosed and fixed server and user related issues via remote desktop and VNC.  • Configured and monitored Sonic Wall 3060 and TZ170 for VPN connections and network security.  • Maintained and repaired hardware and software on all servers, desktops, and laptops.  • Performed daily backups of all servers. IT Manager Hallmark Inn & Suites / Properties - Davis, CA July 2006 to July 2006 Managed networks running Windows Small Business Server 2003 and desktops running Windows 2000 and XP Professional for offices and guests at two hotels. Help Desk Technician California Networking - Davis, CA October 2004 to October 2005 Diagnosed and resolved customer issues ranging from basic Internet connections (dial-up and DSL) to home and office networking to desktop software and applications. Education Bachelor of Arts in Economics in Economics University of California - Davis, CA June 2003 Skills System Administrator, System Admin, Vmware, Linux, Cisco Meraki (3 years), SonicWall (7 years), Active Directory