Director Director Atlanta, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Director ZEP INC 2012 to Present Developed and executed digital marketing strategies to enable better alignment between B2B & B2C business units and their customers, providing better access to marketing communication, product data, customer feedback, and e-commerce  data to third parties, and support inside and filed sales teams.  • Lead digital marketing initiatives including search engine optimization, search engine marketing, email  marketing, campaign landing page development, retargeting and marketing automation.  • Developed the strategy to consolidate websites for 7 brands to complement B2B organization strategy to better  communicate brand portfolios and value proposition to target customers - distributors, re-distributors, and external  sales teams - resulting in over 300% reduction in website operation costs.  • Integrated technology to handle and generate leads; support outside sales teams; and resolve outstanding customer  issues quickly leading to over 125% improvement in responsiveness to customer requests.  • Managed digital initiatives for B2C business unit consisting of 3 brands including mobile, web analytics and reporting, creative media (including script writing and content development), search engine marketing  (SEM/PPC/Ad Words) resulting in 430% increase in brand awareness and website traffic.  • Eliminated $42K annual maintenance spend for Direct Sales Marketing Unit through systems consolidation.  • Lead the development of a consolidated product data management system for Sales & Marketing to better streamline  back-office functions eliminating multiple disjointed systems, reducing data collection, and increased report  generation for customer inquiries and e-commerce updates from 7 business days to 1 business day.  • Lead website design, wire-framing, development, usability testing, and technology marketing initiatives with partner organizations - Crowdtap, Bazaarvoice, Oracle, and managed external development team.  • Developed KPI's & measurement model to track performance and identify opportunities for continuous  improvement.  • Supports Social Media Marketing activities for Retail & Automotive segments  • Provides oversight and direction for digital presence and functionality, external agency relationships, online  campaign development, and video creation.  • Developed standard work procedures for websites, search engine optimization, and other application development  reducing rework and costs associated with platform migrations, upgrades, maintenance & security by 130%. Lead IT Analyst ZEP INC 2011 to 2012 support (hardware, database, OS) and functional support (authorizations, reporting, interfaces,  customizations, and enhancements).  • Served on the corporate IT Security Council and helped to develop SAP Security Policies. Conducted and prepared  regular SAP auditing reports for external auditors to ensure adherence to SOX for SAP and other network systems.  • Technical Liaison & Lead to marketing working on developing social media strategy, campaign planning and execution with Ad agencies, resulting in over 300% increase of website traffic and social followers of over 85,000.  • Developed transition plan to move marketing technology properties (website, technology integration, platforms) from IT to Marketing. Systems Administrator ZEP INC 2008 to 2011 Lead 2 successful IT integration projects related to new business acquisitions and technology integration of email  systems, domain controllers, data/telecom, and site setup resulting in 100% functionality according to SLA.  • Resolved escalated issues related to SAP, and Microsoft Application Servers including resolving database issues,  recovering & rebuilding Exchange Servers, Active Directory, and Blackberry Server.  • Developed IT policies and best practices, including procedures for disaster recovery, preparedness, and compliance.  • Lead cost reduction initiative as Telecom Manager to reduce spend in annual telecom which saved the company  more than $500K Systems Administrator NETROADSHOW, INC - Atlanta, GA 2007 to 2008 • Managed wireless mobility and provided escalated support for issues within the network infrastructure.  • Managed vendor relationships and established standard equipment and application guidelines resulting in overall  improvement in application/equipment acquisition and deployment.  • Implemented Asset Management processes resulting in accurate depreciation of equipment, proper disposal of end of life assets, and repurposing underutilized equipment in order to reduce equipment purchases. Information Technology Consultant CERT IT SOLUTIONS, LLC - Atlanta, GA 2003 to 2007 Provided Information Technology consulting and professional services to small - medium sized businesses  conducting audits and assessments of IT requirements and customizing/optimizing unique solutions to improve  efficiency within their operating environment.  • Managed off-shore web development team for website and custom development projects resulting in lower cost to clients. Education Master of Business Administration in Organization Management Georgia State University, J. Mack Robinson College of Business - Atlanta, GA Bachelors of Business Administration in Management Information Systems Florida Atlantic University - Davie, FL Skills Digital Marketing, Web Analytics, Information Technology, Project Management, Strategy Development, Program Management, Social Media Marketing, Technical Support, Technology Management, budget, Word, Strategic Planning, training Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/rorymit Additional Information TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE  • SAP R/3 System • Network Monitoring • Web Analytics Certified  • Microsoft Windows Systems • Online Marketing  Servers • Dell & HP Servers Certified Professional  • Operating System • Google Analytics Certified (OMCP)  • Active Directory & • A+ Certified • Google AdWords  Exchange Server • Network+ Certified • Tableau Data  • Storage Appliance (EMC • Microsoft Certified Visualization  Data Domain) Systems Administrator  • E-Learning Platforms (MCSA)