IT Systems Engineer IT <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer IT Systems Engineer - ILLINI PRECAST LLC Wheaton, IL Work Experience IT Systems Engineer ILLINI PRECAST LLC - Westchester, IL November 2017 to Present • Responsible for IT Department Management and Operations, supporting 100 computer users across 5 sites throughout the mid-west.  • Established trusted relationships with vendors while managing services rendered and contract negotiations.  • Responsible for company-wide software licensing management and allocation.  • Planning, Management, and Implementation of IT projects while keeping expenditures low.  • Responsible for SharePoint Online Development and Administration.  • Implementation and maintenance of McAfee Anti-Virus and Web Filtering solution.  • Administration of company's Office 365 environment to ensure optimal configuration and security.  • Implemented and managed the company's Mobile Device Management solution (AirWatch).  • Responsible for local and remote end-user support.    Accomplishments • Reduced annual spend on Print Services through vendor consolidation and contract negotiation.  • Reduced annual spend on Cellular usage by consolidating vendors, contract negotiation, as well as policy creation and enforcement.  • Reduced third-party IT support costs by 50%.  • Decrease inventory, application pricing, and licensing expenses by establishing standardization for applications, Laptops & desktops, and networking systems.  • Multi-Site Phone/Fax system Migration to Skype for Business & eFax Corporate.  • Developed in-house Support Ticketing System, integrated with SharePoint Online.  • Increased wireless network efficiency by deploying new wireless solution across 5 sites.  • Deployed on-premise data storage solution with cloud backup.  • Improved network security by Configuring & Deploying McAfee Anti-Virus & Web Content filtering.  • Upgraded ERP solution (Jonas) to latest version.  • Integrated third-party HR software with our hosted SharePoint Environment.  • Configure Hosted SharePoint sites as needed.  • Configure Hosted MDM Solution (AirWatch) and deployed to end-user devices.  • Manage user permissions across Hosted SharePoint Environment.  • Created user focused "How-To" documentation for everyday tasks. IT Systems Specialist ROQUETTE AMERICA - Geneva, IL May 2015 to November 2017 • Maintenance & support of the Hyper-V environment using SCVMM, Hyper-V Manager, & Failover Cluster Manager.  • Provide support for Windows Server 2003/2008/2012R2 environments.  • Manage Multi-Domain Active Directory structure with emphasis on data security.  • Manage hosted Exchange environment for approximately 8000 users via Office 365.  • Manage, create, and maintain enterprise Group Policy Objects.  • Monitor, create, and resolve events detected by HP Operations Manager.  • Deploy software updates and other patches to new & existing systems.  • Create, maintain and update department documentation and procedures.  • Execute documented RFC's to implement application and/or database updates.  • Resolve any incidents which have been escalated to our team in a timely manner.  • Participate in company data center DRP activity bi-annually.    Accomplishments • Led a Physical to Virtual site migration consisting of 4 Physical, Multi-Role servers.  • Developed reports in PowerShell detailing monthly storage consumption for the global Hyper-V environment. System Administrator KLEIN TOOLS - Lincolnshire, IL February 2011 to May 2015 • Support hosted Microsoft Exchange 2013 (Office365) environment.  • Create and manage E-mail accounts for users of Office365 while managing license utilization.  • Provide hands-on and remote support to resolve end-user issues for more than 600 users across 7 sites.  • Create user accounts in Active Directory and assign the necessary user group memberships.  • Perform Active Directory maintenance as needed.  • Create, test, troubleshoot, and deploy Group Policy Objects.  • Create and manage DFS shares.  • Administer and support corporate Domains and Active Directory Environment.  • Administer and support servers in physical and virtual environment: patching and software deployment.  • Install software, perform software upgrades, and deploy service packs as needed.  • Maintain hardware and software inventory using Numara (BMC) Asset Management.  • Manage the imaging, deployment, maintenance, upgrade, and patching of notebooks, desktops, and network printers.    Accomplishments • Coordinated the migration from Microsoft BPOS to Microsoft Office 365.  • Raised Forest and Domain Functional Levels to Windows Server 2008 R2. System Administrator DIGITAL INTELLIGENCE SYSTEMS CORPORATION - Chicago, IL June 2010 to February 2011 • Provided Multi-Tier technical support for multiple site locations.  • On site and remote troubleshooting to resolve problems with desktops, notebooks, servers, network printers and VPN connections while maintaining up-to-date antivirus solutions for more than 600 users.  • Maintained hardware and software inventory using Numara Asset Management.  • Coordinated with users both local and remote, the return and replacement of expired leased assets. Desktop Administrator Generation Brands - Skokie, IL September 2007 to June 2010 • Provided technical support; remotely diagnosed hardware & software problems & coordinated repairs for 300+ users.  • Wrote, revised & distributed user training guides, VPN documentation and software installation audit reports.  • Deployed & managed analog and VOIP telephones on the Mitel 3300 Phone system & PrairieFyre CCM (Contact Center Management).  • Diagnosed and repaired desktops, notebooks, servers, network printers and VPN connections while maintaining up-to- date antivirus solutions for all systems.  • Resolved Level 1 network issues.  • Performed user account creation, deletion, configuration, and permission assignment.  • Installed, upgraded, and maintained all software and licensing.  • Diagnosed, resolved, and documented hardware and software network problems in a timely and accurate fashion.  • Maintained dynamic content on companies' website.    Accomplishments • WSUS Implementation • OAISYS Call recording implementation for CRM • Websense Enterprise v7.1- installation and configuration • Patch panel wiring reorganization. Education MICROSOFT VIRTUAL ACADEMY 2012 to May 2017 BACHELOR OF APPLIED SCIENCE in APPLIED SCIENCE ITT TECHNICAL INSTITUTE - Mount Prospect, IL March 2012 Skills Active Directory (6 years), Change Management (Less than 1 year), Exchange (6 years), Hyper-V (2 years), security. (3 years), System Administrator Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/randy-antes-68351510 Additional Information Expertise    * Hyper-V Administration/Cluster Support  * System Security, Patch Management  * Server Administration and Repair  * Server Installation/Configuration  * Large Server Environments (Global & Regional)    * Hosted Exchange (Office 365).  * PowerShell Scripting  * Active Directory & Group Policy Management  * Detailed Procedure Document writer  * Change Management (ITIL)