Sr Database Administrator Sr Database <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr Database Administrator Austin, TX Work Experience Sr Database Administrator City of Austin - Communications and Technology Management (CTM) 2002 to 2017 Planned and implemented the migration of data from legacy permitting and case management  applications into the Amanda Permitting and Compliance system. This migration involved extracting, transforming and moving data from existing systems with data housed in Oracle, DB2 and MS Access  databases into the Oracle-based Amanda system.  • Worked on data integration project to synchronize property data in the Amanda Case Management  system with data from the City's addressing database system (ESRI GIS).  • Assisted with the integration project to interface the City's addressing GIS system with the Austin Police  Department's Oracle-based 911 Computer Aided Dispatch (CAD) system.  • Planned, Installed, Implemented and Administered Oracle RAC-based system that provides reporting  services for the City's Oracle-based 311 Customer Service Record system (CSR). This system  replicated data from the transactional CSR system to the reporting database using Oracle Dataguard.  • Led team that planned, installed, implemented and administered the MySQL database environment that  serves as the foundation for the Drupal content management system for the City of Austin's public  facing website.  • Served as the Lead DBA for Oracle databases underlying City's GIS environment. This configuration  consisted of a dozen Oracle database instances providing a variety of GIS services including GIS data  maintenance, a GIS Datamart, environmental and flood related data and the City's Addressing system.  • Served as the Lead DBA for the database platform underlying the City's Amanda Land Development  System. This transactional system serves as the case management platform for a variety of critical  business functions across numerous City departments.  • Worked with programming staff to create efficient queries to ensure optimal application performance.  • Used problem solving skills to resolve functional and performance related problems in a variety of database environments.  • Wrote stored procedures and shell scripts needed to manage a variety of Oracle processes for handling  backups, data maintenance, data transfer, ETL and system monitoring.  • Planned, Purchased, Installed, Patched, Updated and Administered Oracle database environments (8i, 9i,  10g, 11g, and 12c) supporting a variety of enterprise applications.  • Created, tested and implemented backup and recovery plans and associated scripts.  • Planned and administered security for Oracle database environments.  • Assisted with logical and physical database design for various custom database applications. Systems Support Supervisor City of Austin - Solid Waste Services 1996 to 2001 • Managed departmental team that provided IT services to the Solid Waste Services department.  • Planned, Budgeted, Purchased and Implemented departmental hardware and software.  • Managed team responsible for administering the departmental Oracle database environment, supporting  desktop software and hardware, and administering the departmental data and voice network. Systems Administrator City of Austin - Environmental and Conservation Services Department (ECSD) 1989 to 1997 • Administered departmental VAX/VMS server environment supporting Oracle database applications and Allin1 office automation system.  • Installed VMS and Oracle software on DEC VAX systems.  • Developed, implemented and monitored routine system backup procedures.  • Investigated and resolved system functional and performance issues.  • Conducted capacity planning and assisted with purchasing hardware and software.  • Completed hardware and software upgrades for DEC VAX servers. Education Bachelor of Science in Mathematics in Mathematics University of Texas at Austin - Austin, TX 1988 Skills MS ACCESS, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, ORACLE, PL/SQL, SQL, INFORMATICA, ARCGIS, ARCSDE, GIS, POWERCENTER, C++, JAVASCRIPT, PERL, PHP, VISUAL BASIC, AIX, LINUX, UNIX, UNIX SHELL Additional Information • Over 20 years of experience designing, developing, installing and administering enterprise level database  applications.  • Oracle PL/SQL expert with more than 20 years of experience.  • Extensive experience in ER-Design, database performance tuning and data integration.  • Training and experience in dimensional modeling, data warehouse design and ETL programming.  • More than 15 years of experience in Oracle Database Administration including database installation and  configuration, logical and physical database design, application troubleshooting, backup and recovery,  database performance tuning and security administration.  • Extensive experience working in team environments on large and small-scale database projects.  • Extensive experience extracting, transforming and moving data between various databases and file formats.  • Expert level skill in scripting and programming using PL/SQL, Korn and bash shells.  • Experience using Oracle APEX, VB, C++ and JavaScript.  • Excellent problem solving and communications skills.    COMPUTER SKILLS  • Languages: PL/SQL, php, Perl, Unix Shell, JavaScript, Visual Basic, C++  • Databases: Oracle (8i/9i/10g/11g/12c), SQL Server, MySQL, MS Access  • DB Tools: Oracle RMAN, Dataguard, Datapump Import/Export, Informatica PowerCenter, SSIS, ER-Win,  SQLPlus, SQLLoader, SQL Developer, Toad, PL/SQL Developer  • Operating Systems: AIX, Linux, Windows  • GIS: ArcSDE, ArcGIS