Systems Administrator/Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Engineer Systems Administrator/Engineer Troutdale, OR Work Experience Systems Administrator/Engineer US Bank - Portland, OR April 2012 to September 2012 Provide direction and technical guidance for planning, directing and auditing of the enterprise Windows servers. Monitor operating system build, software deployments and hardware agents.  Define, organize, create and maintain Windows operating systems software in a large central server environment. Monitor central server software and hardware to ensure system availability. Evaluate, build, test and migrate systems software for the enterprise server build. Provide on-call support, after hours support for problem determination and resolution. Prepare and maintain system documentation and operating procedures. Responsible for Microsoft patching rollout to the entire Windows Server infrastructure with SCCM 2007/2012. Information Systems Engineer Standard Insurance - Portland, OR August 2000 to November 2011 Perform technical activities in the integration, development, deployment, maintenance, and lifecycle management of infrastructure hardware, operating systems, and other software products.  Develop and deploy custom and pre-packaged company-wide software deployments via SMS, Altiris, SCCM 2007, Citrix and App-V for 4000+ corporate workstations.  Perform security patches and updates via SCCM/WSUS to 600+ corporate servers and 4000+ corporate workstations. Worked as liaison to Release Management to ensure successful deployments with each update.  Tasks included resolving technical failures in a timely manner, automating application monitoring tools, and providing technical expertise for application upgrades. Prepared technical training and process documentation for team, to aid with day-to-day support issues.  Assisted with critical system outages, software upgrades, and capacity planning. Coordinated with business executives, software experts, help desks, and business units in a 24x7 high availability environment. LAN Administrator Standard Insurance - Portland, OR March 1999 to August 2000 Perform LAN maintenance, such as install and configure client PC's and software, add users, secure and monitor access to data, backups and recovery, space and inventory management and license compliance.  Monitor performance and fine tune applications to ensure the systems meet division demands.  Develop network documentation and procedures as needed, and provide assistance and train users on LAN operations.  Evaluate and coordinate the implementation of LAN application software, establish standards, procedures and guidelines for LAN use.  Participate with Technical Services Group in the design and implementation of new technology such as operating system configurations, security systems and backup and recovery procedures. Desktop Systems Analyst Mentor Graphics - Wilsonville, OR February 1998 to March 1999 Troubleshoot and repair PC, printer and software problems.  Develop network documentation and procedures as needed. Provide assistance and trained users on LAN operations at both home and regional offices.  Interim supervisor for Global User Support Center helpdesk.  Developed and implemented projects with Mentor Graphics' engineering, operations, sales and marketing departments to utilize information technology in a manner that allowed Mentor Graphics to have a competitive advantage with development and marketing of new products.  Supported each department with the newly implemented software/hardware projects and trained personnel to fully utilize the new systems. Desktop Systems Analyst Nike - Beaverton, OR November 1996 to February 1998 Supported all desktop configurations, LAN support, troubleshooting and problem resolution for local and remote users.  Advised business units on hardware and software budgeting.  Manage, track, purchase and disposal of hardware and software assets.  In depth knowledge of the network, network protocols, platforms, and specific applications.  Responsibilities were upgrades from DOS, Windows 3.1/3.11, OS2 and setting up dual-boot NT machines.  Post installation trouble shooting in every aspect relating to the OS.  Network connectivity, printers, video cards, sound cards, modems, NIC cards, monitors, and drivers.  Resolved conflicts that may have come up with other applications. Education Bachelor of Science in Visual Communications Western Washington University - Bellingham, WA Additional Information Skills    Altiris NS    SCCM 2007/2012    SMS 1.2/2.0    InstallShield AdminStudio Pro    Wise Package Studio    WSUS    App-V    Citrix    VMWare vSphere    Active Directory    Terminal Server    SharePoint 07/10    Windows Installer    Windows OS    Server 2008 R2    Server 2003    7/Vista/XP    Networking    AD    Group Policies    TCP/IP    DNS    DHCP