Application Administrator Application <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Application Administrator Cedar Park, TX Work Experience Application Administrator Capital Metro Transit Authority - Austin, TX December 2017 to December 2018 Assisting in leading and the support of account management, upgrades, software patches, system configuration and administration, troubleshooting, testing, and daily monitoring.  • Partnering with business to undertake full IT ownership of the systems and projects assigned and become proficient in the technical and functional aspects of the system.  • Providing technical support and leadership assistance on projects. Successfully supporting and assisting in leading tasks or projects as assigned. Providing leadership assistance and support in working with technology vendors and implementation partners to implement technical solutions.  • Develop and ensure updates to technical and/or user documentation. Train users on systems and processes. Support and provide leadership assistant in efforts to encourage system use and adoption with the business areas. Act as an advocate and advisor for the application of technology solutions to the agency.  • Provide support and assist in leadership in proactively setting up and managing systems through implementation and monitoring of alerts, regular maintenance activities, performance tuning, software updates and patches. Provide support and assist in leadership in working with internal IT teams and technology vendors.  • Support and assist in leading efforts in system security by ensuring compliance to security standards and policies, monitoring access privileges, conducting risk assessments, investigation of suspicious activities, and remediation of identified security threats or risks.  • Support and assist in leading the planning and undertaking of periodic risk analysis of systems and mitigate risks wherever possible. Support and assist in leading the planning and testing of disaster recovery.  • Follow change management and change control processes to plan and deploy system changes. Perform change-impact analysis.  • Research, develop and implement IT standards and best practice policies and procedures. Systems Specialist III - Technical Application Hosting/Internet Services International Paper - Memphis, TN February 2016 to December 2017 • Research, analyze, and deliver Internet and SharePoint solutions to support IP business goals.  • Configure, deploy, and publish Microsoft IIS and SharePoint based websites and applications.  • DNS maintenance, configuration, and support.  • Active Directory Administration  • Cross Team Support in Global Environment  • VMWare Virtual Server Administration of 10,000+ servers  • Act as technical consultant to provide direction for IP's hosting capabilities.  • Provide stable, functional, and secure hosting environments for Internet and SharePoint applications.  • Interaction with project teams to provide technical requirements for assigned projects.  • Provided timely responses to Service Desk requests associated with both request for service and break/fix issues.  • Researched implemented, and supported software products to assist and automate the management, availability, monitoring, and reporting of systems.  • Work with other IT groups to interface systems as required to the existing infrastructure and network.  • Work with project team members to complete project tasks as assigned.  • Made recommendations and developed technical design for new application features.  • Oversaw implementation of application developments.  • Identified and corrected performance issues.  • Followed internal procedures for change management, incident management and escalation. Systems Administrator Hollywood Casino - Tunica, MS February 2015 to February 2016 • Day to day monitoring/administration/support of technology infrastructure composed up of 40+ physical servers, 500+ VMWare virtual servers, and 2000+ desktop, laptop, and mobile devices  • Administration of Windows 2010-2016 Servers and Exchange 2013  • Active Directory Administration  • Cyber Security Compliance  • Responsible for maintaining the overall health of the Casino's computer network system.  • Designed and implemented solutions to ensure a minimum of delay for employees using the network.  • Provided direction, training, and assistance with problems encountered by staff.  • Ensured that quality service with an emphasis on customer satisfaction is provided to Cast Members using the network and desktop computers.  • Researched and maintained knowledge of current network computing technologies to ensure the Casino's awareness of state-of the art software and hardware.  • Assisted the IT Manager with planning for future acquisitions and upgrades to equipment and software.  • Acted as a technical expert to assist Cast Members with complex desktop computer hardware and software problems.  • Reviewed, tested, and determined whether desktop computers and various hardware components meet standards for quality and network compatibility.  • Recommended items for purchase. Developed and utilized systems / procedures to monitor and maintain the computer network.  • Develops technical specifications and system requirements and creating supporting documentation library and SOP.  • Reviews bids and proposals and makes recommendation for vendor selection.  • Maintains documentation of the network system including installations, problems, fixes and upgrades.  • Installs and maintains network software and hardware.  • Sets up and tests new computer hardware configurations, performs diagnostics on desktop and network systems, connects cables, disassembles and replaces parts as needed Manager of Operations & information Technology SentryNet Inc - Memphis, TN May 2014 to June 2015 • Management, development, integration and coordination of workgroups and subordinate staff of 70+  • Responsible for the organizations current and future IT infrastructure and technologies, evaluation and implementation of required change in process and procedures  • Provide internal and external customer service for employees and network of dealers. Insure facilities maintain strict compliance with Underwriters Laboratories, Factory Mutual and all other compliance and oversight organizations.  • Enable communication by facilitating team meetings within and between locations as well as assign and mange projects and ensure predetermined time frames and cost restraints are maintained.  • Direct management of the Information Technology Department, Data Entry, Customer Service, Central Station, and Training/Development departments and their reports.  • Analyze/evaluate staffing level reports, over-time, overhead, and costs per department.  • Maintain employee schedules, pay rates, performance evaluations, pay increases, promotions, demotions, and terminations.  • Manage day-to-day operations, conducting departmental meetings, executive staff meetings, brainstorming sessions, budget constraints.  • Approval and purchasing of technology related hardware/software and departmental equipment. Management of service agreements and renewals.  • Project management including selection of vendors, evaluation of criteria, and awarding of contracts.  • Development/implementation of company policies & procedures.  • Management of all Information Technology resources including Microsoft Servers, Exchange, Active Directory, workstations, and software titles. Sr. Systems Administrator & Webmaster Memphis Area Transit Authority - Memphis, TN November 2006 to May 2014 • Support/Administration 300+ Windows environment desktops and workstations amongst 6 facilities.  • Support/Administration of 50+ Windows 2000/2003/2008 Servers  • Active Directory Administration  • VMware Administraton  • E-mail Administration via Exchange Server 2003/2007 using Outlook 2003/2007/2010 client  • Support/Administration of Avaya S8500 Phone System with remote VoIP location administration  • Creation and management of company intranet via eKtron Content Management System,  • Creation, migration, management of company external website with experience using IIS 6.0, 7.0, eKtron content management system, Dreamweaver 8.0, CS2, Fireworks 8.0, Flash 8.0  • Maintenance and support of transit fleet software Trapeze versions 4-9 for PASS and FX systems  • Maintenance and support of Maximus/AssetWorks fleet management software  • Compiling and maintaining fiscal operating budget for purchasing of all I.T. related equipment including workstations, servers, network printers, routers, copiers, phones, and software titles  • Evaluation committees for large RFPs to be awarded on projects such as APTS, new phone systems, company-wide replacement of large scale copiers, PC/Server refreshes  • Perform back-up operations using software titles: Symantec Backup Exec 10, 11d, 12; Arcserve 12 - via tape-drive, VTLs, and SAN technologies  • Installation/Implementation of wireless technologies including large scale Cisco Access points and routers  • Mobile Device Management  • Internet Control/Management/Reporting via WebSense Triton  • Asset Control/Management/Inventory via Vector Asset Management  • Enterprise Virus Protection Management & Administration -Trend Micro Enterprise/Symantec  • Security Surveillance Administration via Intellex  • ID Badging System Administration via ProcCard Badging Systems Off-site Systems Engineer Law Offices of Johnson & Brown - Memphis, TN January 2006 to November 2011 • Support and maintenance of computer/network systems for small law office  • Installation and implementation of wireless technologies  • Remote management of information systems and server technologies Desktop Support Analyst Schering-Plough - Memphis, TN 2005 to 2005 Troubleshoot PC and Network issues through main call center on 2000/XP platforms. Desktop Support Analyst Bellsouth Communications - Memphis, TN 2003 to 2004 • Troubleshoot PC and Network issues through main call center on 2000/XP platforms.  • Configure XP machines for remote locations including network connectivity, migration of data, user settings and permissions Systems Support Engineer DoD Millington Naval Base - Memphis, TN 2002 to 2003 • Contract consisted of staging and deploying 2000+ computer systems area naval base to be connected to the WAN.  • Install and configure all networking components, personal user settings, software packages (using Novadigm server)  • Troubleshooting hardware/software conflicts, and complete inventory of each unit  • Complete quality assurance checks on each unit before rollout, meeting a set numbers of units completed per day Desktop Support Analyst Autozone - Memphis, TN 2002 to 2002 • Migration from Win9x machines to Windows XP  • Configuring users to connect to WAN via TCP/IP  • Set up units for connectivity to Citrix Application Server, Novell Server, and Windows 2000 Adv Server.  • Configuration of Lotus Notes  • Migration of data from old legacy machines to new machine  • QC process Jr. Systems Administrator Time Warner Communications - Memphis, TN 1997 to 2002 • Monitoring and support of 600 computer systems (3.1, 95, 98, ME, NT, 2000, XP)  • Building and maintaining database for hardware/software inventory  • Support and administration of network servers (Novell 4.11, Windows 2000 AS)  • Maintaining PC leases and software site licenses  • Ordering new equipment (PCS, Servers, printers, networking equipment, etc.)  • Building/rebuilding PCs  • Management of server for division-wide protection (Norton Antivirus 7.X Corporate)  • Administration of virus server/software database, upgrading server software  • Novell 4.11 troubleshooting/administration  • Network printer management and installation  • Backup/restore operations via ARCServe 6.5/7.0  • Designing network implementation for future sites, training incoming technicians, troubleshoot all Win operating Education Doctor of Information Technology in Information Technology Capella University 2018 to Present Master of Science in Information Technology University of Phoenix - Memphis, TN 2012 to 2013 Bachelor of Science in Information Technology University of Phoenix - Memphis, TN 2010 to 2012 Associates of Arts in Information Technology in Information Technology University of Phoenix - Memphis, TN 2008 to 2010 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Lan/wan, Switching, Vmware, Dns, Exchange, Security, Sharepoint, Web design, Websense, Content management, Change management, Avaya, Wireless, Arcserve, Microsoft project, Ms sharepoint, Exchange 2000, Desktop administration Additional Information Skills    Technical Software Professional  -Cisco Switching/Routing Administration (intermediate)  -Network Infrastructure Construction  -Server Installation  -Server/Desktop Administration  -Backup/Recovery Solutions  -LAN/WAN Support  -Mobile Device Management  -Network Printers  -Wireless Infrastructures  -Application Hosting  -Cloud Technologies  -SAN Technologies  -Cisco IP Phone Systems  -Avaya Phone Systems  -Allworx Phone Systems  -Asset Management  -HRIS  -Content Management  -Web design  -Email Security    -Windows Server OS 2000-2016  -Unix (novice)  -Windows Desktop OS (ALL)  -Active Directory  -Exchange 2000-2016  -VMWare (intermediate)  -Citirx  -DNS  -Sophos  -Arcserve  -Symantec  -MS Sharepoint (intermediate)  -Websense  -AS/400 (novice)  -Powershell (novice)  -MAXIMUS  -Trapeze  -CUCM  -Trend Micro  -eKtron  -Assetworks  -Microsoft Office (all versions to 365)  -Microsoft Project    -Project Management  -Change Management  -SDLC  -Evaluation Committees  -Procurement  -Purchasing  -Contracting  -Asset Management  -RFP development  -Resource Training  -Vendor Solicitation  -Budgeting