Infrastructure Engineer Infrastructure Engineer Senior Systems Engineer Miami, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Infrastructure Engineer Assurant - Miami, FL February 2017 to Present Senior Systems Engineer Charlotte Russe - San Diego, CA February 2017 to February 2018 • Management and maintenance of Nutanix AOS, AFS and Prism  • Lead projects for the infrastructure team- AD DFS, AD/ FFL upgrade, Nutanix implementation  • Migrated off NetApp file level storage to Nutanix AFS  • Reconfigure vCenter networking on Nutanix Platform  • Lead VMware migration of legacy hardware to Nutanix Hypervconverged platform  • Windows system administration, DNS, DHCP, GP, PowerShell scripting, Remote App  • Troubleshoots areas of poor performance and identifies effective solutions to resolve issues both in the immediate future and for the longer term  • Installs, supports, maintains, and monitors all system infrastructures functions and services.  • Maintains accurate and current documentation of the system infrastructure environment, including installation settings, specifications and system requirements  • Provides advanced technical support for technicians to successfully resolve problems. Systems Engineer Bridgevine, Inc - Miami, FL May 2014 to February 2017 • Responsible for all infrastructure including colocation facilities and cloud environments  • Build, manage and secure, virtual datacenters utilizing VMware vCloud Suite architecture.  • Deployed VMware view VDI environment, utilized for compliance controls for access,  • Deploying, managing and securing Microsoft server 2008, 20012, AD services, DNS and group policy.  • Design and manage DR processes to meet company SLAs. This includes fully redundant infrastructure  • Budgeting and Vendor management  • Design, re-architect and build storage environment, proper allocation of resources, adequate performance expectations for SAN-backed VMware vSphere infrastructure and DAS-backed SQL cluster.  • Lead storage environment operations: Installation, LUN provisioning and allocations, capacity monitoring, performance tuning, firmware updates, etc.  • Responsible for developing a secure standard operating environment for Windows Server 2003, Windows Server 2008, Virtual Infrastructure using VMware vSphere 4.1/5.5 and SAN devices to be in compliance with PCI DSS standards.  • Document and implement in Active Directory Group Policy Objects (GPOs) to harden Windows Servers  • Monitor hardware, services and resources using What's Up Gold and Veeam One, Solar Winds Orion Systems Administrator/Assistant IT Manager GAZIT GROUP - Miami, FL September 2008 to May 2014 • Responsible for acquiring, configuring and maintaining the corporate IT network including physical servers, backup platforms, and other peripheral hardware.  • Maintaining Data connectivity of local and overseas offices, as well as maintaining documentation and associated administrations regarding routers, firewalls, switches, usage, down time and various system updates including anti-virus and operating system patches/upgrades.  • Identify IT requirements, designs, configures and implements virtual networks, tests and implements software/firmware upgrades, maintain clients and site-to-site VPN tunnels.  • Maintain back-up hardware and software for corporate servers; identify strategies for disaster recovery implementation and maintenance of disparate server platforms.  • Maintain, configure and set up all Cisco IP phones in all offices  • Responsible for Mobile management for all company devices, setup and configurations.  • Design, setup and administer virtual infrastructure using VMware vSphere 4x/5x  • Administer Exchange 2007/2010  • Monitor published core applications on Citrix XenApp  • Plan and manage technology projects to include such activities as system upgrades, implementations and process improvements.  • Management of Regional Infrastructure, Operations and Helpdesk  • Oversees day-to-day operations to include prioritization, special assignments and workload  • Have overall responsibility for financial (budget/forecast) for USA IT  • Drive cost down, responsible for Operations costs optimization  • Manage local and regional vendor to deliver solution or service that meets the business requirements  • Coordinate Disaster Recovery Drill together with vendor and third parties  • Drives platforms operations cost reduction, working with the vendors  • Administer SharePoint intranet sites, internal and external users for SOX audits Network Administrator FIRST CONTINENTAL MORTGAGE, LLC - Houston, TX July 2007 to August 2008 • Oversaw the day-to-day operation of the network via monitoring tools  • Monitored network usage to ensure security of data and access privileges; install, support and maintains network servers  • Established and maintained user accounts, profiles, file sharing, access privileges, and security  • . Support, test, and troubleshoot hardware and software on local desktops and servers  • . Setup and monitored accounts and devices on Blackberry Enterprise Server  • Setup and monitor VPN tunnels using SonicWALL and Cisco ASAs  • Managed Citrix Servers and all published applications  • Utilized Symantec Ghost to manage and maintain automated system imaging deployment Desktop Analyst LLOYDS REGISTER AMERICAS - Houston, TX July 2006 to July 2007 • Planned, installed, and maintained network and data communications software  • Assured system backups were performed and restores tested  • Coordinated regional project migrations, including rollouts of hardware and software  • Upgraded and reconfigured existing hardware; configured new hardware as required and insure efficient operation and effective maintenance of all computer equipment for offices in the United States, Central America, South America, Canada and Mexico.  • Used Remedy helpdesk to ensure ticket SLAs were being kept. IT Technician CONTINUCARE CORP - Miami, FL June 2004 to April 2006 • Installed, configured, and supported Windows based server and XP professional systems.  • Managed Persystent Technology iNode Professional imaging solution to perform installations of workstation operation  • Administered and supported Citrix MetaFrame systems  • Troubleshoot computer, laptop, network hardware and other technologies  • Deployed Symantec Antivirus Corporate Edition with centralized point of management Education New Horizons Technical School - Miami, FL 2010 Associate of Applied Science in Computer Network Engineering in Computer Network Engineering Florida Career College - Miami, FL 2004 Skills Cisco (6 years), Exchange (5 years), firewalls (5 years), VMware (9 years), VPN (6 years), Active Directory, Linux, System Administrator Additional Information Skills Summary    ? Core technologies - Nutanix AOS, AFS, VMware vSphere, Microsoft Exchange Server 2003/2007/2010, Office 365 management, Microsoft IIS, Microsoft Remote Desktop Services, , Backup and Replication, Active Directory, Cisco UCS Computing, Dell/HP/EMC SAN administration  ? Virtualization: Design, support and troubleshoot VMware vSphere 4.1/ 5.1/5.5/6/6.5 environment.  ? Firewalls: Cisco ASA 5505/5510, Fortinet Fortigate FW, SonicWALL TZ series  ? Hardware: Cisco UCS Chassis, Cisco B200m Blade server, Dell and HP server hardware,  ? SANs: Dell Equallogic PS series 4000/5000/6100x, Dell Powervault 3000, 3200i, EMC VNX 5100, HP MSA 2400  ? NAS: Synology, Qnap, Western Digital Personal Cloud  ? Backup software: Asigra DS Client, Dell AppAssure, Veeam, CA D2D, Nutanix Domain protection    ? Operating Systems: Windows XP/Vista/7/8/10, Microsoft Windows Server 2003/2008/2012/2016  ? Open Source Technologies: Ubuntu based OS, Centos  ? Phone Systems: Panasonic PBX, Cisco BE 6000 Phone Systems, 8X8 VoIP  ? Video Conferencing: Polycom, Tandberg TMS, EX series, MCU and VSC/VCSe controls  ? Mobile Communication: Apple iPads, iPhones, Android and Windows phone platform  ? Networking: LAN/WAN, WLAN configurations upgrades and implementations, VPN, network utilization, network load balancing, monitoring, content filtering, NAT, port forwarding