Managed Services Engineer Managed Services Engineer Managed Services Engineer Saint Paul, MN IT Professional with 6 years of field experience in systems administration, domain administration, system security and  compliance, configuration and installation of small to enterprise LAN networks, customer facing support for WAN and PBX  clients. Experience includes proficiency in switching, VoIP, routing, security, documentation and best administration  practices. Work Experience Managed Services Engineer Blue Net Inc - Eagan, MN December 2018 to April 2019 Maintained and built Citrix 6.5 and 7.6 environments  ? Set up SAN solutions and maintained multi-tenant backups using Datto and Veeam  1682 Ross Ave, St Paul 55106  612-408-9674    ? Assisted variety of clients on O365 Tenant as global admin  ? Integrated and migrated clients using Azure and AD Connect  ? Built internal and external MDT / WDS servers for simultaneous workstation deployment  ? Visited client sites weekly to resolve level 1 issues in person  ? Created project plans for upgrades of Quickbooks, CommitCRM and O365 deployments for managed clients  ? Supported and maintained SQL server instances and backends for Raiser's Edge and GP  ? Created and implemented powershell scripting for various needs such as password expiry notification  ? Edited SNMP checks and maintained Nagios / CheckMK Child NOC Windows System Administrator Minneapolis College of Art and Design November 2017 to October 2018 Maintain, patch, create, and troubleshoot business side application and web servers  ? Write scripts to provide functionality and links between linux based systems and Windows based servers  ? Execute and write SQL queries for business application users to provide the functionality and information required  for work  ? Oversee application upgrades such as Jenzabar, Dynamics GP, PowerFAIDS, and Windows server OS upgrades  ? Maintain and create detailed documentation to ensure future processes are followed Systems Engineer / Internal Lead PowerObjects - Minneapolis, MN February 2017 to September 2017 Supervise team of 3 internal engineers and delegate tasks as well as provide best practices and creative solutions  ? Provide support and solutions as Global admin for company Office 365 tenant  ? Maintain and monitor 100+ servers in our cloud service provider environment, complete patches and work with Microsoft on bugs and updates  ? Ensure compliancy practices while being domain admin for global company of 400+ users  ? Create group policies for security compliancy, access, organization of user and workstation OUs.  ? Implement and deploy Dynamics CRM / 365 via IIS and SQL, create and implement scripts for org creation and maintenance  ? Deploy HyperV solutions and create virtual machines  ? Implemented firewall rules and created VLANs for best possible traffic flows and to keep subnets separate and firewalled based on their use  ? Assist users with SRSS reporting implementation and issues presented with SQL instances and Dynamics CRM Technical Assistance Specialist POPP Communications - Golden Valley, MN April 2015 to January 2017 Troubleshooting network and systems client issues in a high volume ACD/call center environment  ? Guide colleagues and clients on networking protocols such as SIP, DHCP, NAT, TCP/IP and UDP and their respective  functions and configuration  ? Assisted users with technician fixes with larger ISP's as a reseller of their products and infrastructure  ? Support Toshiba digital/IP Telephony such as CIX/IPedge, as well as Cisco/Polycom Hosted IP phones  ? Provide support for WAN services such as Dynamic T1, Ethernet over Copper, SIP Trunks, DSL, and Broadband internet, Metro Optical Ethernet, Ethernet over copper  ? Configure client Sonicwall/Firewall and provide consultation for best practices for QoS appliances per client network  ? DNS/Website administration through Windows Server 2003/2008 and Plesk hosted services (PHP based)  ? Oversee call routing/VoIP services through Metaswitch, troubleshoot call flows and consult with backbone carriers  ? Assisted field technicians and configured phone systems and WAN installs  ? Maintained a Customer Experience Survey result of 9/10    GOALS  1682 Ross Ave, St Paul 55106  612-408-9674    ? Continue to assist users and clients to create positive unforgettable experience Education Associates of Computer Support and Network Administration in Computer Support and Network Administration Technical College May 2016 Computer Science and Mass Communications Bemidji State University September 2010 to May 2012 Additional Information Routers/Switches: Cisco 7200 edge routers, Netvanta 1234P, Adtran 1500/4303 for POTS, Adtran 3000 series DSLAMs,  Adtran 5000 series DSLAMs, HP MSM Controller    Connectivity & Hardware: MS Exchange Server, Ethernet, Fast Ethernet, WAN, LAN, TCP/IP, RAID, PPP, NAT, PAT, RDP, VPN,  VLAN, Static Routing, Web Servers, SQL, HTTP/S, DNS, VLAN Trunking    Security / Firewall Technologies: Dell Sonicwall (SOHO to Enterprise models), Watchguard, IPSec, SSL VPN, VPN, RADIUS,  PKI, PleasantPass, MAC address filtering, Advanced Windows Firewall via group policy    Wireless / VoIP Technologies: 802.11 a/b/g/n, WLAN, WAP, WPA2, TKIP, SIP, RTP, FXS/FXO cards, T1/PRI cards, Cisco hosted  IP phones, Polycom hosted IP phones, Metaswitch provisioning and implementation for hosted PBX, Toshiba IPedge,  Toshiba CIX, SIP binding and trunking, Asterisk, FreePBX    Monitoring tools and Software: Wireshark, Solarwinds, Tenable.io, ipmonitor    Software / Hardware: VMware, HyperV, Office 365 suite, Windows Server 2008, Windows Server 2012 R2, Windows Server  2016, Visual Studio 2017, ADFS, TFS, Dynamics 365 (CRM), IIS 7.0, Windows XP/ 7 /8 /10, Basic Linux knowledge, SQL  Management Studio 2012, PowerShell