Lead Developer Lead Developer Lead Developer - Appetivo.com Dunedin, FL Seeking a position utilizing my programming skills as a  software developer. Work Experience Lead Developer Appetivo.com - Los Angeles, CA January 2018 to Present Los Angeles, CA (remote)  Duties: Took over development for a headless CMS written in Elixir, using GraphQL for communication to the front end. Took complete ownership of code and was responsible for all design and implementation. Went from novice to knowledgeable in a very short  time, bringing code up to requirements. Added new functionality including new payment  methods (PayPal), better timezone handling, multiple currency handling, and adding  new authentication methods plus other functionality. Worked with the frontend  developers on implementing new features as directed by designer/project manager.  Managed the Github repositories, including most branching and merging duties as well as deployment to Heroku. Handled all Heroku maintenance for dynos and Postgres. Computer Consultant/Technician Self Employed - Wimauma, FL March 2006 to Present Duties: Provided computer support and development services to individual clients.  Setup a small network for a legal office including desktops, laptops, and networked  printers. Was responsible for handling all setup and communication with telephone  company for DSL setup. Continued to provide on-demand support for network and systems related issues. Provided in house computer setup and service for several  individuals. Design Engineer/Contractor Northrup December 2000 to March 2006 Grumman Space Technology/TRW Space Engineering/Volt  Technical Services Redondo Beach, CA  Duties: Implemented software to extract primary and ancillary information from the VIIRS sensor data files from HDF files in C++. This version worked on both Linux and  Windows, and was over three times faster than the software provided by the design  engineers.    Developed a middleware server for handling IEEE1278.1 (Distributed Interactive  Simulation) data communication between the SBR (Space Based Radar) simulation  software developed in house and the JCATS (Joint Conflict and Tactical Simulation)  software developed by the DOD. Software was implemented in C++.    Implemented a partial port of the Vis/IR model from MATLAB to C++ to improve  performance. Responsible for locating bottlenecks and optimizing code for same, as well as testing for the individual modules ported. Achieved a significant speed increase in scene processing.    Developed a hyperspectral device simulator for Electro Optical Products department from engineer specs, using C++. Simulator had a client/server architecture with client  intended for cross platform deployment (Windows and various UNIX flavors).    Revamped level 1 image processing for Hyperion hyperspectral satellite images by making client requested changes and further automating the process. Included making  changes to existing Perl and C++ code, as well as writing of new modules and scripts.    Assisted in MFC C++ implementation of a satellite constellation simulation for NPOESS  (DSatPro). Software handled satellites and ground station simulation regarding data  transfer for a 31 day period.    Modified and improved existing code for the TRWIS co-alignment software to implement  new customer and engineer requirements.  Implemented software to take PLEXUS output and do wave number to wavelength  conversion. Systems Administrator Global Internet Solutions - Los Angeles, CA July 1998 to December 2000 Duties: Installed and maintained Linux, FreeBSD, and Solaris servers for WWW  hosting of large movie sites. Also maintained both Informix(Solaris) and MySQL(Linux)  DB servers, as well as mail services. Designed and implemented internal task  management system in Perl, using MySQL. Developed software in C++ to locate  closest stores based on zip code. Wrote various custom CGI programs and Perl  modules for development clients. Systems Administrator Zentropy Interactive - Los Angeles, CA March 1996 to July 1998 Duties: Managed and maintained all UNIX internet services machines (WWW, mail, ftp).  Handled large movie studio and commercial website. Installed and maintained  Netscape 2.x and 3.x web server software. Developed custom CGI scripts for development customers, including navigation system for an online shoe store.  Developed, in C, a module for integrating Netscape 2.x web server software and an Informix database to provide dynamic content. Education Electrical and Computer Engineering California State Polytechnic University - Pomona, CA High school or equivalent Skills Deployment, Cms, Mysql, Postgresql, Sqlite, C++, Git, Javascript, Perl, Php, Apache, Linux, Frameworks, Lua, Sendmail, Wordpress, Elixir (2 years), CSS, HTML 5 Additional Information Skills  Programming Languages: Elixir, C++, Perl, Lua, PHP, Javascript  Frameworks: Phoenix, React  Operating Systems: Linux, Windows  Server Software: Apache, Qmail, Sendmail, OpenSSH  Databases: MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite  Web CMS Software: Joomla, Wordpress  Revision Control: Git, GitHub  Deployment: Heroku, AWS