Senior Systems Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Senior Systems Engineer - Infinity Consulting Solutions Maple Grove, MN Work Experience Senior Systems Engineer Infinity Consulting Solutions - Brooklyn Park, MN April 2019 to Present Provided administration across all systems, assisted in company wind down/migration operations, decommissioned systems from environment, replaced failed servers, collaborated with cross-functional teams.  Client: ABRA Auto Body  Key Contributions  * Performed Hyper V administration and troubleshooting.  * Administered Active Directory, Exchange 2010 and migration to O365.  * Administered N-Able system monitoring and management Senior Systems Engineer Insight Professionals - Edina, MN March 2018 to February 2019 Provided strategic guidance on system upgrades, analyzing system concept, design and interoperability. Developed and designed systems, performing systems modeling, simulation and analysis; and upgraded operating systems aligned with system enhancements. Developed and conducted tests, ensuring systems met user requirements; and determined system specifications and processes for hardware/software compatibility.  Client: Constellation Mutual  Key Contributions:  * Deployed multiple systems and applications, including Nutanix Hyper-Converged Cluster, Alien Vault SEIM and Digital Guardian DLP, as well as Skype.  * Administered and migrated O365 and Exchange 2013.  * Built Windows 2016 servers; and performed VMware ESXi and VDI administration and troubleshooting. Senior Systems Engineer Robert Half Technology - Minneapolis, MN March 2016 to March 2018 Managed and facilitated systems requirements, performing feasibility analysis on customer systems and ensuring alignment with business needs. Documented plans for technical projects, outlining steps for implementation; and assessed new technology, defining approach in-line with project requirements.  Clients: Dorsey and Whitney, Fiserv and Bankers Equipment  Key Contributions:  * Provided technical expertise to various Robert Half Technology clients.  * Migrated 300 end-user desktops to Active Directory Forest, using Microsoft ADMT; and designed, built and migrated 300 end-users to Exchange 2016 server. Senior Systems Engineer Signature Consultants - Saint Paul, MN October 2014 to February 2016 Developed system engineering processes, documentation and implementation; and performed multiple applications migrations; and installed Nimble storage system. Collaborated with cross-functional teams, contributing to development, implementation and migration of hardware/software and systems.  Clients: Fiserv  Key Contributions:  * Designed, built and administered 160 VMware Horizon 6.2 desktops for both secure and non-secure environments.  * Migrated storage to VNX 5400 from EMC CX; and upgraded servers from 2003 to 2008/2012. Senior Systems Engineer Verus Corporation - Fridley, MN July 2013 to October 2014 Identified and assessed engineering issues, formulating, designing and testing technical solutions while employing systems engineering methods and tools. Maintained servers through monitoring. Served as Lead Engineer, managing datacenter team across all stages of customer deployment and onboarding.  Clients: Numerous Clients  Key Contributions:  * Led systems engineering on $650K conversion project to VMware for servers, deploying 160 desktops for client Moss & Barnett LLC.  * Upgraded Multi-Tenant Exchange 2007 to Multi-Tenant Exchange 2013. Senior Systems Engineer Impact Proven Solutions - Minneapolis, MN April 2010 to July 2013 Provided technical support across all systems engineering processes, including system analysis, modeling, development, assembly, testing and planning. Created test plans and procedures, verifying system functionality. Maintained service level agreements (SLA), switching all software licensing to one vendor.  Key Contributions:  * Slashed operational expenditures by $50K annually, managing and appropriating budget.  * Led multiple migration projects, namely Compellent to HP 3PAR, Citrix to VMware View, and to Exchange 2010.  * Designed and installed APC racks, power distribution and UPS in datacenter, as well as HP blade infrastructure for testing, development and production. Systems Administrator and Desktop Support Technician 1996 to 2010 Skills Exchange (10+ years), Firewalls (10+ years), Citrix (3 years), Vmware (10+ years), Windows Server (10+ years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/kevinhautamaki