Salesforce Solution Engineer & Business Systems Analyst Salesforce Solution Engineer &amp; Business <span class="hl">Systems</span> Analyst Salesforce Solution Engineer & Business Systems Analyst - The Desai Foundation Burlington, MA Certified Scrum Master, Salesforce Developer & an Analyst with knowledge of different fields: Information Systems, Business Data Analysis, Electronics, Telecommunication & digital marketing. Competent data visualization skills& ability to manipulate vast data sets. Excels at process improvement &system design.  • Having 5+ years of IT experience including 3+ years of salesforce full life cycle (SDLC) implementations experience as Salesforce Developer.  • Hands-on experience and good knowledge of nCino Bank Operating System  • Experience in configuration, implementation and support of Salesforce CRM and Salesforce SFA applications.  • Study, implement, and administer 3rd party Salesforce apps to increase productivity.  • Facilitate a week of Service Cloud training as part of an elaborate train-the-trainer initiative. At the end of the implementation, the Change Management team transitioned into one unified training team focused on end user readiness.  • Created ETL test data for all ETL mapping rules to test the functionality of the Informatica mappings.  • Created and used Email templates in HTML and Visual force.  • Developed Case Queues which automatically assign cases to a specific user or group of users based on predefined criteria.  • Working on record types, validation rules, triggers and page layouts.  • Developed Lightening components and Lightening apps to provide better and more interactive interfaces to end users, which help in sales enhancements.  • Worked on various Salesforce/Veeva integrations with SAP, Oracle and other third party systems to support Order Management module.  • Implemented Lightning Experience of salesforce. Created & customized Client Dashboard as per client requirement.  • Lightening experience work with Salesforce1 mobile.  • Worked with External objects in Salesforce which is another feature introduced with lightning components. Work Experience Salesforce Solution Engineer & Business Systems Analyst The Desai Foundation - Burlington, MA October 2018 to Present • Developed & implemented the organization's CRM system with Salesforce NPSP.  • Cleaned the data & effectively streamlined it using Dataloader.io for importing.  • Maintained Salesforce security protocols, permissions & setup user profiles.  • Participated in the Agile POD meetings and provided input and documented business requirements.  • Salesforce Configurations across all the Standard objects like Accounts Contacts Cases etc.  • Well maintained Test Code Coverage Unit Testing for all the codes in the system following the Salesforce limits.  • Worked on Salesforce.com application to setup activities and customized it to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Balancing system analysis and design responsibilities with an Agile Java RAD development team and also gathering detailed requirements from the program team that operated under a waterfall lifecycle approach.  • Developed custom platform applications to meet the client requirements.  • Used search tools like SOQL & SOSL on Workbench.developerforce.com.  • Trained the all employees domestically & internationally through rigorous video sessions on Salesforce.  • Worked with key business stakeholders to document and validate business objectives and requirements.  • Managed communications and coordinate discussions between Product Managers and business stakeholders.  • Analyzed the various facets of the organization viz. donor behavior, grant strategy, financial data, demographic opportunities& social media connectivity. Designed &streamlined all the organization data. Exploited the information to capitalize on donation opportunities.  • Developed communication plans for the benefit of employee-stakeholders relationship. Salesforce developer/ Administrator Keybank - Cleveland, OH July 2017 to August 2018 • Captured business requirements from business analysts and translated them into data model and Technical Specification Document (TSD)  • Based on Data model created relationships among objects using Lookup, Master-detail and Junction Object relationships.  • Implemented customizations using Apex controller classes (Custom, Extension), Triggers and Visual force pages. Identify and streamline workflows using the nCino platform, built on Salesforce.com, and implement changes and levels of customization as needed through the Salesforce Administrator role.  • Used visual force components - Form, Page Block, Page Block Section, Command Button, Action support, Action Function, Page Block Table and Repeat for developing visualforce pages.  • Developed rich UI using custom Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) in Visual force pages and used Java Script, JQuery for client-side validations.  • Written SOQL, SOSL, Aggregate, Relationship queries in apex classes, triggers to retrieve optimized data from Objects.  • Developed custom Objects, Fields, Dependent picklist values, and validation rules, Page Layouts, Search Layouts and Tabs.  • Performed administrative tasks - creating Users, Profiles, Roles, Permission Sets, Page Layouts, Record Types and configured sharing rules based on Organization role hierarchy.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update and bulk import or export of data from Sales force Objects.  • Created and maintained the documentation for application Design, data mapping document for Migration and integration technical design document.  • Designed and implemented archiving of data using Batch Apex and Scheduling.  • Ensure data integrity by merging duplicate Leads, Contacts, and Accounts; performing mass uploads and updates of data as required.  • Worked with Jitterbit tool to load data into salesforce. Worked with Jitterbit to develop process builder automation.  • Maintained custom nCino-Salesforce objects. Maintain setup records specific to nCino. Work with nCino project management team to ready client for Data Configuration stage of implementation.  • Created workflow rules, approval process and defined actions like Tasks, Email alerts, outbound message and Field updates.  • Created communication templates used for Email alerts based of Text, HTML and Visual force types.  • Developed customized Reports, Dashboards for business users and managers, developed custom report using visualforce pages.  • Written apex unit test classes for Trigger, Apex classes to meet 75% of code coverage to migrate to Production instances.  • Good experience in preparing package.xml file for deploying applications from Sandbox to Production instances using Force.com migration script and Workbench.  • Implemented best practices to avoid governor limits by writing repeated code in triggers and apex classes. Salesforce Developer Enterprise CarShare - New York, NY September 2017 to November 2017 • Enterprise CarShare was an Enterprise Inc. subsidiary which provided neighborhood car-sharing benefits to its users. Apparently, the company shut down in major American cities like, Chicago, Washington D.C, New York City & Philadelphia.The purpose of this project was to analyze & research the major reasons for the company's collapse& what can be done to reintroduce them in the market with efficient Information Systems as its major strategy.  • Did extensive market research using tools like Tableau & understood different consumer behaviors.  • Developed the SRS & 'Implementation & Maintenance' documents featuring the detailed requirements, use cases, context diagrams, etc. Salesforce Developer Northern Trust - Chicago, IL March 2017 to June 2017 • Performed the roles of Salesforce Administrator/Developer and Business Analyst in the organization  • Worked on industry standard messaging and communication protocols  • Good Working knowledge of nCino  • Worked closely with development teams to design, build and test application and provided direction for system enhancements and defect fixes.  • Implemented Case Management by creating record-types specific to the user groups, assignments rules, escalation rules, case templates, workflow rules and actions, etc.  • Designing and enhancing the existing Claims Coding, testing, modifying, debugging, documenting, implementation and deployment of software using the Informatic tool Review  • Developed Visualforce pages to prepopulate certain fields and embedded it in the application.  • Experience in creating visual work flows to automate certain business flows.  • Enabled and configured E-mail Relay feature for the e-mail administration for the entire organization.  • Worked extensively in customization of Service Cloud Console by embedding Visualforce pages in custom console components, highlight panel and interaction log.  • Performed application configuration, testing and evaluation to ensure quality and consistency.  • Worked with various salesforce.com standard objects like Cases, Accounts, Contacts  • Designed and developed workflow rules, validation rules, approval processes and customizations within Salesforce.  • Created several Unit Tests for code coverage.  • Created templates, page layouts, and record types according to the business process requirements.  • Created custom reports to track the cases, asset to be available to different levels in the organization based on their profiles.  • Used the sandbox for testing and deployed the code to the different instances after testing.  • Created Change Sets and deployed it in Production organizations.  • Experience with Agile software development methodologies. Online Resident Portal System', DePaul University March 2017 to May 2017 Spring 2017  • Designed an online resident portal for the residents of the 'Infinite' student apartments in Downtown Chicago.  • The design was done entirely using Microsoft Visual Studio (C# programming), introducing features like online payment, mail notification, door-man portal (notifying about shift changes), management inquiries& maintenance requests.  • The database was stored, managed & routed with MySQL server.  • Throughout the project, the SRS & 'Implementation & Maintenance' documents featuring the detailed requirements, use cases, context diagrams, etc. were designed at different stages. Business Development Executive Simpliforge Additive Manufacturing Solutions Pvt. Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra May 2015 to October 2016 • Project Management -Managed 20+ FFF/FDM and DLP based 3D printing product lines in PLA, PLA+, ABS materials and resins. Oversaw end-to-end processes including client acquisition to marketing and sales.  • Business Development -Generated 45% venture capital for the company through venture capitalists.Spearheaded this 3D printing startup with customer growth & excellent sales within 3 months in the Mumbai metropolitan area. Ventured into medical prosthetics industry through industry tie ups within the region.  • Contract oversight - responsible for all facets of contract development including analysis, negotiations and closeout. Bluetooth Home Automation', University - Mumbai, Maharashtra May 2016 to May 2016 • Developed a Bluetooth based Home Automation System using Arduino Pro Mini & featured the controllability via an iOS & android based mobile application.  • A HC 05 Bluetooth module & a 4 channel relay controller were used for the functional requirement.PCB etching & design was done using Proteus 8 Pro. Marketing Strategist & Content Creation Intern Fox Networks, 'Channel V - Mumbai, Maharashtra March 2014 to May 2015 • Researched and shared insights amongst current live event fan trends.  • Updated and managed site platform content.Researched keywords and content avenues using Google analytics and internal tools.  • Wrote and strategized SEO-friendly content.Boosted company's presence on various college campuses. Education Master's in Information Systems DePaul University - Chicago, IL Bachelor's in Electronics and Telecommunications Engineering University of Mumbai - Mumbai, Maharashtra Skills PROJECT MANAGEMENT (2 years), BUSINESS REQUIREMENTS (1 year), DATABASE (1 year), TESTING (1 year), DOCUMENTATION (1 year) Additional Information SKILLS & SOFTWARE:    Database skills ORACLE PL/SQL Developer, Tableau, Microsoft Power BI, Microsoft Excel.  Languages Python, R, C#  ERP tools Microsoft Dynamics AX CRM tools: Salesforce, Workbench, Dataloader.io, KEPLA, nCino  Design & Development tools  Microsoft Visual Studio 2008/2012/2013/2015, IBM WebSphere, Microsoft Visio, Lucid charts, Microsoft Office, Adobe Creative Suite 4/5/6, Final Cut Pro X    Operating systems Mac OS, Windows & Linux, nCino,  Testing skills SQL, Unix, Rally, JIRA, AGILE, Manual  Project Management  SDLC, Traditional (Waterfall) & Agile software development, Business Requirements Documentation (BRD), Functional Specification Documentation (FSD), IT PMO, Data modeling techniques such as UML, use case, data flow & object modeling, case analysis, work flow analysis, entity relationship, relational databases (RDBMS), Gantt charts etc., BPM, BPMN, virtual project management, Scrum, Kanban.