Senior SharePoint Systems Administrator Senior SharePoint <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior SharePoint Systems Administrator - Amyx, Inc Huntsville, AL IT professional with over twenty-five years' experience in Systems Administration, SharePoint Configuration, Administration and Content Management, and over ten years' experience architecting SharePoint farms in the DOD environment. Work Experience Senior SharePoint Systems Administrator Amyx, Inc - Reston, VA April 2019 to Present Remote)    Senior SharePoint Administrator supporting Defense Logistics Agency / J62 Media Enterprise Operations on Premise SharePoint 2013 Portals and Office 365 environments.  Projects worked to date include the organization of an automated daily reporting feature through PowerShell and the implementation of the DoD Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIGs).  My team has also resumed the migration of existing SharePoint 2007 on premise sites to Office 365 using the Metalogix RCT tool set. Senior SharePoint Systems Administrator Jacobs Engineering - Bagram, AF June 2018 to April 2019 AFG  US Special Operations Command / Naval Special Warfare Command    Senior SharePoint Administrator supporting US Special Operation Command Enterprise SharePoint NIPR, SIPR, and CX-I portals. Projects assigned and completed while in theatre included a rebranding of the portals to standardize a look and feel across the environments, assessing and implementing a daily reporting procedure for all portals to give a quick look into the health of all the portals, and developing several customized dashboards to report on the overall readiness of troops entering action.  Reassigned Portal permissions from using SharePoint Groups and Explicitly Applied permissions to Active Directory Groups. Senior SharePoint Systems Administrator SAIC - Huntsville, AL April 2015 to June 2018 Senior SharePoint Administrator supporting the Army Material Command (AMC) Enterprise SharePoint classified and unclassified portals. These portals serve in excess of 150k users worldwide in a multi-tenant environment. SharePoint platforms managed include 2007, 2010, 2013, 2016 and O365.  Assisted the Lead Architect to migrate content from the 2010 Portal to the 2013 Enterprise Portal consisting of more than 950 Site Collections and 140 Content Databases. Lessons learned from this endeavor will be put forth in the migration to SharePoint 2016. SharePoint 2016 environments were established for Development and Staging prior to the migration into SharePoint 2016.  Architected and implemented the rollout of the Office Web Apps (OWA) and Active Directory Rights Management features to work jointly with Enterprise SharePoint.  Deployed SQL Server 2016 to run concurrently with SQL 2014 instances within the same cluster nodes in order to save funding dollars during a migration from SharePoint 2013 to 2016. Constructed the Content Databases to contain only data from any one tenant to ease in the backup and restoration of lost data.  Assisted in the architecture of a SharePoint 2016 Enterprise Services Farm that deployed Search, User Profile, Services, Managed Metadata, and Secure Store for several farms. This farm published those services so the consuming farms did not have to run redundant service applications.  Upgraded three SharePoint farms from Nintex 2010, to 2013, to 2016. Nintex databases were isolated to align with similar content databases in order to keep workflow history items at a minimum.  Constructed a strategy to successfully implement SharePoint patching for large farms that includes an automation of Config Cache Clearing, Upgrading SP Content Databases, and Clearing Upgrade Conflicts within the Farms and finally speeding up the PSCONFIG process.    Implemented lessons learned in previous Enterprise SharePoint environments to further utilize metrics dashboards reporting and adapt reporting to featured that are no longer available. Currently in the migration process to Power BI. Have working knowledge of SSRS (SQL Server Reporting Services) and how to implement those reports.  One of two Admins within the AEP Team that coordinated all enclave configurations with DISA. This included but was not limited to PPSM, DNS (Service Principal Names), Active Directory, IIS, and Group Policies Server requirements for both physicals and virtual servers along with the appropriate change management tools.  Software Development Life Cycle has included the Migration from SharePoint 2003 up to an including SharePoint 2016, Server 2000 to Server 2016, and Microsoft Office 97 to Office 2016. Senior SharePoint Systems Administrator Dynetics - Huntsville, AL February 2014 to April 2015 Led a team to migrate an existing Lotus Notes Database into Enterprise SharePoint with the use of third party tools from DocAve.  Implemented the capabilities of SharePoint Search to include Files Shares with MSFC.  Architected the migration of two outlying Centers SharePoint portals onto the Marshall Portal which allowed better collaboration between teams at two different centers.  Led a project to install a third party encryption tool to allow the MSFC Civilian Contracting team to use SharePoint and totally isolate sensitive contract from any team member with Elevated Rights.  Implemented lessons learned with the previously developed metrics reporting to sport issues with storage concerns and run away site collections. SharePoint Systems Administrator- Knowledge Management Analyst ManTech International April 2013 to January 2014 Kandahar, Afghanistan    Served as the technical POC for several Regional Commands in Afghanistan to mentor junior personnel.  Architected a full OS upgrade on live portals that were migrated to VMWare sandboxes. In this area, the process to implement an upgrade to Server 2008R2 SharePoint was developed.  Developed a Metrics Reporting solution that analyzed past and present storage need in order to predict future growth.  Researched and implemented solutions to revitalize a failing FAST Search Server to alleviate the need for a new installation.  Architected and implemented a reorganization of the Enterprise SQL backup strategy to newly deployed storage SharePoint Systems Administrator & Sr. Information Technologist Raytheon Technical Services Company - Kabul, AF January 2013 to April 2013 Afghanistan    Share Point Administrator and Sr. Information Technologist supporting the War Fighter Focus Program for all of Afghanistan.  Developed Content Management policies for the CIED-EOD SharePoint Enterprise Portal along with insuring connectivity to Raytheon Corporate for all employees.  Managed the architecture and roll out all IT assets for the Raytheon CIED-COD program for all Regional Commands in Afghanistan. SharePoint Systems Administrator Booz - Hamilton, BM November 2011 to January 2013 Huntsville, AL    Lead SharePoint Systems Administrator supporting the Multi-Tenant HQAMC AEP SharePoint Portal supporting up to 20k users.  Led a newly formed SharePoint team reporting to the architect through rollout to major Command Tenants.  Designed and implemented the AEP Development network working with Redstone Network Engineering to standup the first off network solutions development portal.  Led the project to bring the AEP Portal into full ECA compliance  Developed and implemented a program to monitor all backups, portal availability, and systems checks. Systems Administrator IASO September 2009 to November 2011 Pelatron-Raytheon Corp  FOB Union III, Iraq    Worked within an Enterprise Systems Administrator shop supporting multiple sites and over 10,000 AD objects.  Worked as team lead to manage both physical and virtual nodes in a non-clustered environment with active replication to insure 100% uptime.  Implemented a scripted reporting system for Enterprise Microsoft Active Directory Management Creation of objects, modification/configuration of security parameters to include DFS Management for high availability to a COOP environment  Re-engineered the Symantec Backup Exec in-place solution to a more robust VERITAS Backup Exec 12.5 solution utilizing Central Administration Servers and Media Servers pulling data from MS SQL, MS Exchange, Web Servers, SQL Servers, and File Servers.  Led the Night Team as System Lead to provide Tier 3 support for all software applications and services running on three enterprise domain infrastructures.  Recruited as IASO to support the implementation and enforcement of DOD, CENTCOM, and US Forces - Iraq (USF-I) security policies inside the assigned regional area of the Iraq Theater of operations.  Lead a three-man team to Investigate and provide root cause analysis to incidents, critical events detected by security systems, and conduct audits of the enterprise and base level LANs.  Recognized for contributions provided to the Command Security Group J2 in the last-minute recovery and manual destruction of hundreds of hard-disk drives containing sensitive information just prior to the closing of the complex.  Designed a reporting feature using Enterprise SharePoint capabilities to collaborate IA scan postures and request feedback using Enterprise Nintex reporting tools.  Conducted dozens of IA physical site assessments while conducting visits throughout Victory Base Complex in USF-I Central Region and analyze results to determine physical mitigation strategies for remediation. Senior Systems Administrator ITT Systems Division September 2007 to September 2009 FOB QWEST, Iraq    Managed and mentored a staff of six Systems Administrators supplying IT support to FOB QWEST.  Oversaw the transition from physical to virtual servers for the FOB and improved reporting procedures as well as updating the vulnerability scores for the FOB. The site was consistently in the top 5% for reporting and assessment.  Designed and implemented a SharePoint instance to the FOB with an installation of Foundation for local use only. The sites were created for all of the ITT teams in order to better transfer knowledge and archive data.  Conducted annual technical and performance reviews for all six direct reports.  Acted as a liaison between the contracting side and military side to the S6 on site Systems Administrator 266 FINCOM US Army Europe - Vicenza, IT October 2004 to September 2007 Italy    GS-12 responsible for the day to day operations for all IT Management for FINCOM in Southern Europe.  Designed and implemented a mobile pre-deployment operation for the 173rd Airborne Brigade so that troops could be processed for deployment without the use of any WAN network capabilities. Designed and implemented first instance of SharePoint in Northern Italy for the Finance Command for team collaboration  Implemented Enterprise Server features such as Ghost Deployments to facilitate the rollout of Windows XP and Office 2003.  Managed a second IT site in Southern Italy with one direct report.  Awarded the Army Commendation Medal for Civilian Service for his work in Italy.  Began his maintaining of a Secret Security Clearance in 2004 Business Development Sales Mgr. / Senior Sales Representative Sealed Air Corp Cryovac Division - Durham, NC October 1992 to September 2004 Duncan, SC    Implemented and developed sales strategies for new and existing product lines with national distribution. Mentored and coached new Sales Candidates to learn product lines and building relationships.  Increased territory sales from $6,000,000 to $25,000,000 in six years by focusing efforts with my internal and external resources.  Lead Sales Representative to implement a new internet based ordering system to speed order processing for the customer and reduce on hand inventory levels  Lead Sales Team Member for implementing a paperwork reduction process through the utilization of Microsoft Office products  Lead Sales Team member to Reduce the flow of artwork request files from a paper input to an electronic format  National Salesman of the Year, 1996. Selected form a National Sales Force of 55 members Owner Wills IT - Greenville, SC 1999 to 2004 Owner of a consulting business specializing in Microsoft Small Business Server, Client and Server Security. SBS has a focal point in Microsoft Exchange and Share Point Server.  Installed and Managed Microsoft Small Business Server  Integrated Active Directory and Exchange Server  Integrated Share Point Server Portals Regional Salesman 1995 to 1995 Regional Salesman of the Year, 1994. Selected from a Regional Sales Force of 6 Members Education BBA in Marketing State College - Valdosta, GA Skills Dns, Security, Sharepoint, Active directory, Sql server Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • SharePoint - 2003, 2007, 2010, 2013, 2016, 2019 & Office 365 - 12 yrs. - Advanced - Current  • Active Directory / DNS / Group Policy - 15 yrs. - Advanced - Current  • Windows Server - 2000, 2003, 2008, 2008R2, 2012, 2012R2, 2016 - 15 yrs - Advanced Current  • Windows Desktop - 25 yrs. - Advanced - Current  • SQL Server - 2008, 2012, 2014, 2016 - 7 yrs. - Intermediate - Current  • Information Security - 10 yrs. - Intermediate - Current  • PowerShell Scripting - 7 yrs. - Intermediate - Current