Area Manager Area Manager Area Manager - Amazon Mount Washington, KY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Area Manager Amazon - Shepherdsville, KY 2017 to Present Essential team member supporting 300+ associates fulfilling 40K customer orders daily. Leads regular stand-up meetings, presenting safety guidance and daily goals. Implements root-cause analysis and corrective actions to remove production and safety constraints, as well as, improve product quality and customer experience. Charged with ensuring all required training, professional developed, and department cross-training is conducted, ensuring a high performing department and shift. Completes key projects on time and with a high level of accuracy.  ? Implemented successful development program for promoting associates to area managers, that was successful for promoting 2 associates, with 2 more in the pipeline.  ? Generated 140K process improvement savings; Identified inefficient product locations throughout warehouse and partnered with team to update bin locations in system  ? Lead a new team of junior managers, resulting in a 40% improvement of shift performance over 4 months. By setting shift standards and expectations the new team continues to improve. Combat Communications Officer United States Air National Guard 2007 to Present Combat Comm Officer in the 263rd Combat Communications Squadron. Ensures all operational and deployable assets, including information systems, are maintained in working order. Mentors and motivates all subordinate troops in professional, career, and leadership development, and military customs and courtesies by being a positive example and ensuring standards are enforced.  ? Lead team on critical training mission that resulted in successful activation of mission essential systems. Prioritized member training to ensure focus on comprehension of equipment to be deployed. Virtualization Systems Administrator SAIC - Fort Bragg, NC 2015 to 2016 Enterprise level virtualization administrator supporting the United States Army Reserve Command. Directly working cross-office projects for planning, development, and operational testing for core enterprise services. Maintains appropriate security configurations, change management, and risk management by collecting data to insure applicable laws and policies are adhered to.  ? Recognized an emergency situation and rebuilt 2 VMware vCenter sites running in linked mode, supporting 800+ guest hosts, with no guest host service interruption.  ? Volunteered to champion initial install of Microsoft Lync Server service for the enterprise, successfully upgraded this service to Server 2012R2 with little prior Lync Server knowledge  ? Achieved a 95% security compliance rating on all industry and local security policies for all servers in area of responsibility during enterprise wide audit.  ? Create, execute and maintain Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for Enterprise Services. Conducts routine audits to ensure compliance with established standards, policies, and configuration guidelines. Systems Administrator L-3 National Security Solutions - Fort Bragg, NC 2011 to 2014 Essential team member supporting a high demanding customer on site for all IT related needs. Proactively supported multiple desktop, server, and proprietary platforms on all daily maintenance, configuration, and operation. Ensured high availability for multiple sites. Actively worked with multiple government agencies to ensure communication high availability in a constantly changing and evolving network conditions.  ? Upgraded multimillion dollar servers, including hardware and software, with no customer downtime. These efforts enabled the customer to more efficiently and effectively support their military counterparts.  ? Directly responsible for more than a twenty servers and over 60 user workstations. Volunteered in high visibility special assignments to fill a Subject Matter Expert (SME) position in overseas locations on short notice request from the customer.  ? Solved long-running customer problems after playing a key role in the systems development life-cycle (SDLC). Worked directly with the customer and partner vendors to ensure technical software problems were identified and solutions were implemented, which resulted in minimal user downtime. Education Master of Business Administration in Business Administration Wake Forest School of Business - Charlotte, NC December 2016 Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology University of Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ June 2014 Skills Powerpoint, Word, Strategic Planning, training, Management, Operations, Excel, Inventory Control, Microsoft Word, Inventory, Microsoft Office, Logistics, MS Office Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: O1