Manager, Radiology IT Support Manager, Radiology IT Support Manager, Radiology IT Support- Sr PACS Administrator Carrollton, TX Manager of Radiology I.T. Support Team, with demonstrated record of success in developing and maintaining positive client  relations within a diverse multilevel population thru problem resolution across multiple vendor modalities, and software such as:  Sectra, IDS5 IDS7, Agfa PACS, McKesson Conserus, McKesson MR Vocada/Veriphy, QuadraMed. Nuance PowerScribe360, PenRad Remedy Helpdesk, ServiceNow, Work Experience Manager, Radiology IT Support NYC H+H CENTRAL OFFICE E.I.T.S 2011 to Present Radiology I.T.  Support, South Manhattan healthcare Network Stationed at Bellevue Hospital Center, direct a team of PACS Administrators across Seven facilities.  Support Radiology Departments in the use of PACS, speech recognition, RIS and PenRAD applications.  Function as a training resource for clinicians and Radiologists in the use of the PACS Application.  Participate in senior management level meetings to plan the deployment, upgrade and/or removal of modalities, software,  changes in workflow, etc.  Ensure timely resolution of application problems, correction of system issues, appropriate training of end users.  Assist in the procurement of hardware/ software as needed. PACS ADMINISTRATOR BELLEVUE HOSPITAL CENTER February 2008 to December 2011 NY  Perform 1st level support for all Diagnostic and Clinical Work Stations.  includes software, hardware and maintenance as well as major upgrades and configurations, Wise Database, PACS Database  Management, User Administration, Role Administration Monitor all system logs; Integration of different applications into workstations and ensure proper operation.  CD Burning and Archive recovery.  PACS Guard Monitoring.  Monthly Ignite Backup Tape IDS5 QA, DDP Configuration, Import/Export of DICOM images Easylink Management.  Escalation and monitoring of Helpdesk tickets to PACS vendor.  Radiology System Support for TalkTech and PenRad.  As part of a team, support Metropolitan, Gouvernuer, and Color Hospital's Radiology Dept.  Henry J Carter LTC Nursing Facility. Administrator PACS - Brooklyn, NY June 2004 to September 2008 Responsible for performing all related activities to support the hospital's PACS, preparing images for digital archiving and assuring the quality control of medical diagnostic images and files.  Responsible for diagnosing, repairing, maintaining and upgrading all PACS associated hardware and software, while ensuring its optimal performance.  User maintenance and training. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR The NPD Group - Port Washington, NY February 1999 to May 2003 Sr. Systems Operator The NPD Group - Port Washington, NY September 1996 to February 1999 SERVICE MANAGER Standard Exterminating Company - Astoria, NY February 1994 to April 1996 Education Diploma Herbert H. Lehman HS. 1977 Skills Customer relations (10+ years), Data management (10+ years), liaison (10+ years), Process implementation (8 years), Process improvement (8 years), Service Desk (5 years), Help Desk (10+ years), Tech Support (10+ years), Desktop Support (10+ years) Additional Information Skills  Project management Strong verbal communication  Team liaison Data management  Self-motivated Client assessment and analysis  Process implementation Process improvement  Team leadership Dependable  Staff development Management information systems  Customer relations specialist Work flow planning