DMS Operations - Temporary Contractor DMS Operations - Temporary Contractor DMS Administrator Chicago, IL Dedicated IT professional with 30 plus years of solid experience in network administration, systems security, business applications and technical support working in a legal services environment. Strong analytical and problem solving skills. Ability to adapt to changing and competing priorities. Strong customer orientation and a professional approach with the ability to interact within all levels of the organization. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience DMS Operations - Temporary Contractor Perkins Coie LLP - Chicago, IL March 2019 to July 2019 ·  As a member of the Perkins DMS team assisted with the upgrade of the iManage Work Server test environment to version 10.2  ·  Migrated, upgraded, configured, and tested iManage Work Web 9 onto a MS Windows 2012 server in the Perkins DMS production environment.  ·  Migrated iManage Workspace Generator 8.5 to a MS Windows server in production.  ·  Installed, configured and tested Workspace Generator 10 on a MS Windows 2016 server in the Perkins DMS test environment.  ·  Performed extensive testing of the various core Perkins desktop applications against the Perkins DMS 10.2 test environment. This included all Office 365 applications, Desksite, Filesite, Work Web, and all associated 3rd party add-ons and apps.  ·  Performed monthly server patching and maintenance on all DMS servers in the Perkins production environment.  ·  As a member of the Perkins Applications team, assisted with the troubleshooting, and resolution of Service Desk tickets  ·  Provided documentation as requested.    Systems Administrator Hinshaw & Culbertson LLP - Chicago, IL April 2016 to October 2018 • Primary person responsible for processing firm new hires, separations, status changes, group memberships, etc. in Active Directory.  • Exchange/Outlook Support: includes creating accounts, granting permissions, managing group memberships, email troubleshooting and email discovery. Mimecast and Enterprise Vault administration experience Worked on the team responsible for migrating our Email system from Lotus Notes to Microsoft Exchange  • Mobile Device Support: provide support for the installation and configuration of Airwatch on personal devices. Airwatch administrator  • DMS Support: assist with DMS administration, troubleshooting, granting permissions, managing ethical walls, bulk imports/exports, DMS discovery  • Citrix/VPN Support: responsible for applications found in our XenApp environment. Assist with connectivity and application issues  • Provide support for various miscellaneous applications; Intapp Time, HotDocs, OSF Tax programs, ProDoc, DoubleTime, ILS etc.  • Provide backup support to the firm's Network Operations, Workstation Services and Business Applications groups  • Led the IT department in number of Help Desk tickets closed  • Provide documentation for various administrative functions Enterprise Document Management Administrator Hinshaw & Culbertson LLP April 2001 to April 2016 • Primary person responsible for processing firm new hires, separations, status changes, group memberships, etc. in Active Responsible for installation, configuration, upgrade and maintenance of over 20 remote instances of Worksite server, running both Verity and IDOL index engines  • As DMS Administrator played a key role in the successful conversion to a Matter Centric iManage environment  • Deployed and managed DocAuto's Workspace Manager application  • Responsible of creating and maintaining firm Ethical Walls using IntApp WallBuilder  • As a member of our 710 project team played an active role in the successful rollout of a new desktop to the entire firm.  • Primary end user support for client installations of Desksite and EMM in our iManage environment  • Primary support for our Citrix Xenapp environment  • Primary support for our Carpe Diem Time Entry environment Seyfarth Shaw LLP - Chicago, IL April 1986 to April 2001 • Assisted in the maintenance and support of Windows NT, Novell Netware and Wang network operating systems for a 1000 user national law firm over a period of 15 years  • Financial system maintenance, support and backup  • Assisted with the deployment, configuration, upgrade and maintenance of all firm client workstations  • Primarily responsible for all firm end user and application support, including software training when needed.  Technologies  Platforms/Operating Systems: Windows Server 2003/2008/2012, Netware, Windows XP/7/10, Mac OSX, IOS, Android    Cloud Based Technologies: Mimecast, VMWare Airwatch, Outlook 365    Server Related Technologies: Active Directory, MS Exchange 2013, MS Sql Server, Citrix, iManage WorkSite/Work Server, Carpe Diem. Lotus Notes Domino, Backup Exec, Avamar, Veritas Enterprise Vault, VMWare    Software/Applications: MS Word, MS Excel, MS Outlook, MS Powerpoint, Visio, Lotus Notes, iManage DeskSite/ FileSite, DocAuto Workspace Manager, Milan Prosperoware, IntApp Time, IntApp Wallbuilder Education Bachelor of Arts Political Science Illinois Institute Of Technology - Chicago, IL