Senior Programmer Analyst Senior Programmer Analyst Senior Programmer Analyst Long Beach, MS Offering 30 years of professional experience encompassing the following areas of responsibility in information technology:    * Microsoft Server OS, Active Directory, Office Suite, SQL, Access, etc.  * Collaborate with the customer in solving problems of data analysis, report preparations, and record maintenance;  * Network administration; knowledge of Fortinet firewall and Cisco and HP switches;  * Database administration;  * Assist in collecting, analyzing, and coding data;  * Analyze alternative means of deriving input data to determine the most feasible and economical methods;  * Analyze, design, implement, and maintain the application software;  * Analyze, evaluate, and recommend in acquisition of computer hardware/software;  * Determine whether systems used are accomplishing maximum utilization of material resources in accordance with accepted principles and practices of work specifications. Prepare the estimation of time, equipment, personnel and total costs for recommended systems changes. Work Experience Senior Programmer Analyst South Mississippi Regional Center - Long Beach, MS July 2004 to March 2019 July 2004 to March 2019  Supervise the development of software applications using various database such as Microsoft SQL, Microsoft Access, and Visual FoxPro. Manage various technical and personnel resources that support core agency functions related to information systems. Provide the agency with technology resources (infrastructure, operations, support, and systems delivery) to meet business needs. Make ongoing recommendations to enhance the agency's business applications to ensure program objectives are met. Coordinate the activities and functions of assigned areas to ensure integrated delivery of systems. Develop and initiate procedures and techniques pertaining to broad overall goals of information technology. Administrate and maintain the Facility's local area network (LAN) which includes Fortinet firewall and Cisco/HP switches. Install and maintain Microsoft Windows Servers, Active Directory, and Linux operating systems. Manage Exchange email system.    Deployed of the release of new technologies as well as install, configure, maintain, and perform system integration testing of PC/server operating systems, related utilities and hardware. Senior Systems Analyst & Administrator South Mississippi Regional Center - Long Beach, MS July 1998 to June 2004 July 1998 to June 2004  Assessed needs and developed data processing applications for Facility's departments and its satellite offices. Determined computer hardware and software requirements for Facility and prepare the information technology budget. Administrated and maintained Facility wide area network (WAN). Developed logic and procedures to provide more efficient machine operation. Analyzed existing system logic difficulties and revise the logic and procedures as necessary. Determined whether systems used are accomplishing maximum utilization of material resources in accordance with accepted principles and practices of work specifications. Managed and maintained the facility computer systems and its remote sites. Software used includes Windows Operating system, Netware, Visual FoxPro, and Microsoft Access. Systems Analyst III South Mississippi Regional Center - Long Beach, MS July 1993 to June 1998 Responsibilities included systems analysis, developing, implementing, and maintaining computer applications for various Facility's departments and its satellite community programs. Participated in the purchasing and installation of computer software and hardware. Prepared budget and long range plan for information technology software and hardware. Trained end-user in the use of data processing software and hardware. Troubleshot and maintained Facility's computer equipment. Systems Analyst II South Mississippi Regional Center - Long Beach, MS January 1989 to June 1993 Developed, implemented, and maintained computer applications including payroll, accounting, human resources, and other database applications. Developed procedures to enhance efficient operation. Analyzed existing system logic and revised the logic and procedure if necessary. Prepare information technology budget. Trained end-user in the use of computer software and equipment. Troubleshot and maintained Facility's computer equipment. Education Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science Nicholls State University - Thibodaux, LA December 1986 Skills Database administration, Database, Network administration, Infrastructure design, It infrastructure, Systems administration, Change management, Deployment, Migrations, Technical support, Process improvement, Qa, System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory, Vmware, Linux Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES  Strategic IT Planning • IT Infrastructure Design • Applications Developing and Administration • Process Improvement • Change Management • Technical Support • Deployment & Migrations • QA • Testing • Systems Administration • Network Administration • Database Administration