Senior Systems Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Senior Systems Engineer - Trintech Forney, TX Work Experience Senior Systems Engineer Trintech - Dallas, TX May 2018 to Present • Lead systems engineering projects as the subject matter expert across multiple domains (Windows, Database Server Administration, Web Server Administration).  • Support 24x7 in-house and co-located data centers, public and private cloud environments, and a distributed IT service desk supporting a global employee and client base.  • Collaborate with internal customers to ensure IT roadmap transparency and alignment with business priorities.  • Document and standardize processes to drive automation and ensure projects are delivered on time, on scope, and on budget.  • Drive accountability and process maturity through ITIL core processes (Change, Incident, Problem, etc.) and manage to metrics.  • Manage vendor relationships to develop strategic partnerships, maintain focus on customer satisfaction, and reduce costs.  • Evaluate and develop business cases to support the migration from legacy on-premise and co-located systems to cloud-based solutions.  • Lead project to map private cloud Hyper-V environment.  • Pilot project to migrate Hyper-V to VMware 6.5.  • SME for Cadency applications and its environment.  • Configured and Deployed networking to support UAT and Training environments.  • Built Hyper-V based UAT environment consisting of SQL 2014. SQL 2016 servers, Windows 2012 and Windows 2016 servers.  • Manage DNS, WINS, DHCP, FTP and WWW servers  • Built Hyper-V based Training environment.  • Built pilot VMware server for Windows 2016 domain controller refresh project.  • Support DevOps environment.  • Support LINUX servers.  • Support Office365.  • Support clustered Hyper-V.  • Support clustered VMware.  • Responsible for all pre-production cloud environments.  • Created Citrix XenApp environment. Network Administrator Service King Collision Repair - Dallas, TX March 2017 to April 2018 • Support 3900 user network distributed over 340 satellite sites.  • Maintain core network switches.  • Manage enterprise firewalls.  • Updated Palo Alto firmware and OS.  • Planned and installed Palo Alto High Availability pairs.  • Participate in enterprise wide network redesign project.  • Tasked as the primary IDF switch stacks install, configuration and support expert for headquarters site.  • Install and support Silver Peak SD-WAN devices throughout the enterprise.  • Redesigned Dallas Call Center network.  • Tasked with configuring Aero Hive wireless access points and supervising remote installs of the same.  • Serve as network integration support for new acquisitions.  • Configured IDF switch stacks for new headquarters site.  • Support Avaya VOIP phone system.  • Worked with vendor to configure and install Dell Force10 backbone switches.  • Worked with vendor to configure and install iSCSI switches.  • Installed IDF network switches at new headquarters site.  • Primary support for IDF networks switches.  • Support and maintain Palo Alto firewalls.  • Support Kemp load balancers.  • Support Force10 core switches.  • Support four datacenters.  • Support Compellent storage networks.  • Configure and install network switches.  • Configure VLANs on core and site switches.  • Installed SpiceWorks network monitoring software.  • Mentor junior network admins. Systems/Network Engineer and Architect Generational Equity, LLC - Dallas, TX June 2006 to November 2016 • Manage two Data Centers.  • Manage 30 physical and 40 virtual servers.  • Manage 300 node multi-site network.  • Initiated, planned, implemented and managed creation of co-location facility.  • Network Architect.  • Systems Engineer and Architect.  • Citrix Architect.  • Exchange 2007, 2010, 2013 and 2016 architect and administrator.  • Manage DNS, WINS, DHCP, FTP and WWW servers.  • Built Exchange 2010, 2013 and 2016 servers.  • Migrated Exchange 2010 to Exchange 2013 and then to Exchange 2016.  • Migrated two Exchange 2013 environments to two Exchange 2016 environments.  • Planned, purchased, installed and implemented Citrix farm.  • Upgraded Citrix farm from XenApp 4.5 to XenApp 5.0 then to XenApp 6.0.  • Created Active Directory trusts between domains and forests.  • Serve as technical consultant and support for custom CRM application.  • Merged previously split domains into two domains.  • Moved network to new corporate office.  • Planned, purchased, implemented and managed Blade Server farm.  • Planned and implemented Symantec Backup Exec backup and data protection.  • Planned, specified, purchased, installed, implemented and managed VMWare server.  • Planned and implemented Symantec Antivirus installation and rollout to 300 node network.  • Instrumental in managing production and development SQL servers.  • Serve as senior end user support.  • Support production and development environments.  • Managed project to migrate PBX system to VoIP network.  • Implemented MPLS network to support VOIP network.  • Migrated local Watchguard firewalls to Fortigate cloud firewall.  • Managed Fortigate firewall.  • Evaluate and recommend new hardware and software purchases.  • Manage video security and access badge systems.  • Created, implemented and managed Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity plans.  • Created and maintained Active Directory Group Policies.  • Implemented firewall based web blocking/access and anti-spam policies.  • Implemented data retention policies.  • Created and implemented disaster recovery policies.  • Designed and implemented e-mail archiving strategy.  • Set up network fax service.  • Moved data center to more robust Co-location facility.  • Setup offsite tape storage for disaster recovery.  • Migrated backup solution from LINUX to Symantec Backup Exec 10.  • Upgraded Backup Exec 10 to Backup Exec 2010 then to 2012.  • Installed 5TB SAN data storage system.  • Planned, purchased, and installed MobileIron mobile device management system.  • Initiated and implemented SharePoint 2010 and SalesForce project for document management.  • Planned, purchased and Installed 45TB SAN.  • Migrated data from 5TB SAN to 45TB SAN.  • Mentor junior systems and network admins.  • Responsible for creating IT budget.  • Manage migration from Windows 7 to Windows 10.  • Planned and implemented migration to Windows Server 2012 from Windows 2003.  • Planned, configured and implemented Lync 2010 and Lync 2013 servers.  • Planned, configured and implemented Skype for Business Server 2015.  • Migrated Active Directory domains and Exchange to new domain due to company name change.  • Perform SOX audits.  • Responsible for HIPAA compliance.  • Created network print server.  • Installed and supported MS Dynamics.  • Installed MS Reporting Services server. Education bachelor's degree and network in certifications DeVry Institute of Technology - Irving, TX Present Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, CITRIX, CLUSTERING, DHCP, LDAP, MPLS, NETWORK MONITORING, NETWORK DESIGN, SWITCHING, TCP, TCP/IP, VMWARE, VPN, WINS, XENAPP, DEVOPS, DNS, ENCRYPTION, EXCHANGE Military Service Branch: USMC Service Country: United States Rank: E-4 May 1983 to June 1989 Field radio operator  Electronics technician Additional Information Technical Proficiencies:    Operating Systems: Windows 2016, Windows 2012, Windows 2008, Windows 10, Windows 7, VMWare, Hyper-V, Apple IOS. LINUX, UNIX.    Networking: TCP/IP, IPSec, DNS, WINS, DHCP SMTP, SSL, RDP, Active Directory, Wi-Fi, VNC, SD-WAN Dell OpenManage, Ethereal, Palo Alto Firewalls. Watchguard Firewalls, Fortigate Firewalls, VPNs, Co-location facilities, VOIP, ActiveSync, Citrix, SolarWinds. SpiceWorks Network Monitoring, PPTP, RDP, LAN, WAN, LDAP, FTP, MPLS. QOS. IDS/IPS. Kiwi Syslogging. SCCM. SCOM. Teamviewer. Radius. VLANs. SD-WAN. Cisco. Core switching. IDF closet design.    Software/Security: Azure. Office365. IIS 7.0, 6.0 and 5.5. SSL Encryption. VPN. SharePoint 2013 and 2010. Symantec Antivirus and Endpoint Protection. Exchange 2016, 2013 and 2010. Backup Exec. Symantec Ghost. Citrix XenApp 6.5, 6.0 and 5.0. Sourcesafe. Office 2016, 2013, and 2010. Antispam. SQL2016, 2014, 2012, and 2008. Visio. GPO. Skype for Business Server 2015. Veeam Backup. MS Dynamics. Office365. VCenter. PKI. Spiceworks. Kesaya.    Hardware Platforms: Blade servers. Dell and HP servers. EMC (Equalogic) SAN. ISCSI. Dell and Cisco network switches. Kemp Load Balancers. Barracuda Load Balancers. Barracuda Anti-spam antivirus/anti-virus appliances. Apple laptops and desktops. DLT and LTO tape libraries. RAID Arrays. Network fax. HP, Canon, Xerox and Dell printers. Scanners. Videoconferencing. IPhones, Windows 10 Mobile devices. Wireless Access Points. IPads, Windows 10, Windows 8, Windows 7 and Android tablets and PCs. Anti-Spam/Anti-virus appliances. Rukus, Aruba and AeroHive WAPs. F5 load balancers. Hyper-V clustering. VMware clustering. SAN storage..    Related Skills: Datacenter design. Network design, monitoring, update, maintenance, and administration. Windows Systems Administrator. Disaster recovery planning. Exchange administrator. Citrix Administrator. VMWare Administrator. SharePoint Administrator. Strong analytical and problem solving abilities. Mentoring. MS Office support. Excellent verbal and written communications skills. Web Server Admin. Security Administrator. Technical Trainer. SOX and HIPAA compliance and audits. Agile process. DevOps. Kesaya. Salesforce. TeamCity.