Consultant Consultant IT Systems Administrator with experience in data-centers operations, disaster recovery, and network security. San Diego, CA I am a skilled IT administrator, with over 15 years of experience. I have served as the go-to-guy for everything technology related for a number of small to mid size businesses. I have the responsibility, to come up with the necessary solutions and put together the right teams in order to ensure smooth and predictable IT operations for my clients.     I have worked in IT for radiology/medicine, accountancy, software development, business compliance, non profit. At the moment I am seeking a change in my career path and am looking for a full time position for better application and the growth of my skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Consultant Excelln LLC - San Diego, CA January 2017 to Present • Managed vendors and provided planning/configuration support for interfacing between HIS/RIS/PACS systems with other medical groups in the region. --These projects enabled my clients being able to send and receive patient orders and results electronically while being HIPAA compliant and resulting in a streamlined service for patients.  • Developed cloud based deployment scenarios by integrating proprietary apps and servers into Azure, AWS and Google Cloud Platform  • Migrated and managed Vmware ESXi and Hyper-V environments.Provided project management support for interfacing medical EHR systems.   • Explored Hyper Converged Infrastructure solutions for clients.  • Provided SUSE Enterprise Linux and hardware configuration assistance for setting up a SAP HANA development environment.  • Provided configuration and management support for the WAN, Firewall and VPN gateways that enable the employees to operate from around the world  • Setup Remote Desktop Server Environments in order to enable remote users to access network applications.  • Integrated AWS EC2 instances to existing onsite server infrastructure after the business acquired another firm.   • Managed Centralized ESET Endpoint Antivirus Remote Administration Server  • Managed Windows Active Directory Group Policy.  • Developed and maintained network documentation, SOPs and training manuals for end users and business administrators. Consultant Bitwise Consulting - San Diego, CA January 2015 to December 2016 • Developed and Tested automatic failover solutions using VMware HA and VmWare VSA utilizing VSA clustering.   • Provided disaster recovery support including support for CryptoLocker based attack on client data storage infrastructure.  • Helped plan build-out of a datacenter production environments  • Provided Security Policy Assessment and helped develop and implement new security procedures. Sr. Systems Administrator TeraCenter, Inc - San Diego, CA March 2004 to December 2014 • Built and managed a datacenter for storing client backups using a custom Gentoo Linux build.  • Developed security policies and standard operating procedures.  • Did security analysis, migration planning and helped with on boarding of new clients.  • Provided product support and troubleshooting support to clients for vast variety of issues including, WAN ISP, routing, loss of connectivity, DNS, MX, etc. Education BS in Computer Engineering University of California-Irvine - Irvine, CA September 1998 to September 2002 Skills Vmware ESXi (5 years), Microsoft Windows Server (10+ years), Linux (6 years), Sonicwall OS (5 years), Mac OS X (5 years), Network Administration (10+ years), Vmware VSA (Less than 1 year), Cisco IOS (2 years), Nessus/Tenable Vulnerability Scanner (2 years), Google Apps Administration (6 years), Microsoft Azure (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Office 365 (1 year), Amazon AWS (Less than 1 year), DNS (8 years), Thomson Reuters Creative Solutions Suite (7 years), HIPAA (5 years), WireShark (2 years), Troubleshooting IT/Electronics/Software (10+ years), Docker (Less than 1 year), Matlab (Less than 1 year), Quickbooks (10+ years), System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin, Active Directory, Linux Administrator Links http://www.excelln.com Certifications/Licenses The Linux Foundation, Blockchain for Business - An Introduction to Hyperledger Technologies November 2017 to Present LFS171x Blockchain for Business - An Introduction to Hyperledger Technologies a course of study offered by LinuxFoundationX, an online learning initiative of Linux Foundation through edX. RITx: CYBER 501x: Cybersecurity Fundamentals March 2019 to Present A course of study covering the fundamentals of cybersecurity offered by RITx, an online learning initiative of Rochester Institute of Technology. RITx: CYBER504x: Network Security May 2019 to Present A course of study covering network security offered by RITx, an online learning initiative of Rochester Institute of Technology. Assessments Technical Support — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/yrb2b6l6tpuvmtf3 Data Analysis — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/6nokxjuczq27xre Business Math — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to use basic math to solve problems in a business context. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/n75aamlsqhd3fuyr Statistics — Proficient June 2019 Understanding statistical methodology and interpreting common statistical calculations. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/yo1qfa21lmqsl2m0 Electronic Medical Records Knowledge — Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate’s knowledge of EMR data and associated privacy regulations, as well as best practices for EMR use. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/gseg-v0otlufykpj Project Management Skills: Time Management — Proficient July 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/0aijt5vpboucgwur Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.