Senior Systems Engineer III Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer III Senior Systems Engineer - Department Of Defense Ft Detrick Williamsport, MD Passionate Systems Engineer with 15 years of engineering experience encompassing consultation, security, design, integration, testing and administration of enterprise solutions. Results driven with customer focus, cost efficiency, and flexibility in mind. Work Experience Senior Systems Engineer III Department Of Defense Ft Detrick - Frederick, MD December 2013 to Present • Designed and implemented an accredited support environment hosting worldwide medical logistics applications.  • Deployed and managed enterprise core services with focus on vSphere 6, Horizon View 7, vRealize, Veeam, IBM v7000 SAN, Windows Server 2012/2016, RHEL 7, Dell M1000e hardware and Brocade Fabric.  • Certificate of Appreciation presented for efforts engineering disaster recovery solution for large DOD developed accredited applications. Senior Systems Engineer III Department of Veterans Affairs - Martinsburg, WV December 2012 to November 2013 • Certificate of Appreciation for efforts in VA.gov migration to Capital Regional Readiness Center (CRRC).  • Designed and implemented accredited support environment hosting VA.gov.  • Deployed and managed enterprise core services with focus on vSphere 5, vRealize, NET App SAN, F5, Dell Power Edge systems, Windows Server 03/08R2, Veeam Backup and IIS. Systems Engineer/Technical Lead Department of Vetrans Affairs - Frederick, MD March 2010 to December 2012 • Designed and Implemented support environment for VA Acquisitions Academy utilizing VDI to deliver a high quality education experience.  • Deployed and managed enterprise core services with focus on vSphere 4, View 4.6, Active Directory, HP Proliant Blade, HP Lefthand SAN and Windows Server 03/08. Engineer VMware - Vienna, VA June 2011 to February 2012 • Implemented and managed a regional lab environment for deployed Vmware engineering teams to test, demo and integrate VMware solutions for nationwide customers.  • Focused engineering in vSphere, vCloud Director, vRealize, Windows Server 08, AD, DNS, Exchange and Horizon View. Systems Administrator II Fugro Earthdata Inc - Frederick, MD November 2006 to February 2010 Managed enterprise support environment with focus on Sharepoint, Windows Server 03, AD, Group Policy, DNS, Citrix and RHEL systems. VMware Engineer IGIUS Inc - Vienna, VA March 2008 to March 2008 • Implemented and managed a regional lab environment for deployed Vmware engineering teams to test, demo and integrate VMware solutions for nationwide customers.  • Focused engineering in vSphere, vCloud Director, vRealize, Windows Server 08, AD, DNS, Exchange and Horizon View Systems Administrator Thales Communications Inc - Clarksburg, MD November 2004 to November 2006 Managed enterprise support environment with focus on DNS, AD, Group Policy, SQL, Sharepoint, WINS, FTP, Windows Server 2003, .net and VPN. Education High school or equivalent Skills Active directory, Itil, Nagios, AWS, Vmware, System Administrator, Red Hat, Linux, vRealize, Windows Server 2016, Systems Engineer, Horizon View, Active Directory, Veeam, SAN, Cloud Computing Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/tyler-claypool-00985920 Certifications/Licenses AWS Cloud Practitioner AWS Solutions Architect VCP 6 Security + CE MCP