Student Student Student taking night classes for an Associate of Science degree - Collin County Community College Anna, TX Highly organized Information Technology professional and over 8 years of experience serving Department of Defense customers, including Protected U.S. Air Force Veteran, holding a recently renewed Comptia Security + CE certification. With my experience I am looking to pursue a career in the Information Technology field. As an Information Technology expert it has been my responsibility to manage over $2 Billion in government assets, lead various teams in vulnerability assessments, upgrade and test weapon systems, and develop effective strategies for future system and security upgrades. Work Experience Student Collin County Community College - McKinney, TX August 2017 to Present Student taking night classes for an Associate of Science degree with the future goal of achieving a Bachelors degree in Information Technology. System Administrator United States Air Force - Schriever AFB, CO July 2016 to June 2017 Colorado Springs, CO  • Installed, configured and maintained 50 plus Virtual Machine servers and clients.  • Coordinated and configured weekly and monthly network backup procedures using CommVault software for 88 servers within two network enclaves.  • Led a three man team for six weeks resolving 400 plus tier two tickets using the Remedy ticketing system  • Appointed as a workcenter trainer. Successfully oversaw On The Job Training tasks and weekly training classes for 4 personnel. System Administrator United States Air Force - Okinawa, JP May 2014 to July 2016 • Performed hardware and software backup/installation and operating system configuration ISO for 29,000 cyber devices.  • Appointed as main workcenter trainer. Successfully oversaw On The Job Training tasks and weekly training classes for 7 personnel.  • Coordinated and performed IT upgrades, requirements and security policies affecting services for more than 9,000 customers.  • Appointed Base Software License Manager for Kadena Air Base. Organized, maintained and issued software licenses. Customers included 26 squadrons, 9,000 plus personnel. System Administrator United States Air Force May 2013 to May 2014 Osan Air Base Pyeongtaek, South Korea  • Streamlined logistical/surveillance capabilities for organizational peacetime operations by administering Global Command and Control Systems (GCCS) suite; maintained operational efficiency through 33% reduction of resources by implementing ITIL practices of inventory records and trouble ticket queuing.  • Applied security measurements on Windows clients and reported on quality assurance to eliminate points of weakness by owning tasks to increase asset protection and reduced vulnerabilities worth $500,000.  • Provided status reports to management detailing effectiveness of actions to increase customer operational capabilities and provided presentations to executive leadership during scheduled/ad hoc meetings. System Administrator United States Air Force - Bossier City, LA February 2009 to May 2013 • Carried out user and operational acceptance testing evaluating alternative solutions based on government and customer requirements in support of military mission aiding Theater Battle Management C4I System (TBMCS) & Global Command and Control System (GCCS) functionality enhancement/ system upgrades.  • Resolved issues with root cause analysis for remedial IT operations to include troubleshooting, fault isolation, and validation for infrastructure operation sustainment enterprise-wide.  • Facilitated and led organization-wide ICT device integration in support of government wide projects.  • Augmented help desk for 30 days and personally managed 233 remedy tickets for 4 back shops for three different networks enclaves. Data Systems Technician United States Air Force - Doha, QA June 2011 to December 2011 Qatar  • Ensured operational accuracy of battle command and control system through verification and validation of data from multiple cross-country sources; provided increased safety awareness to pilots and controllers. Education Associate in Associate of Science Collin County Community College - McKinney, TX August 2017 to Present Skills Active directory, Vmware, Ms office Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: E4 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ CE November 2015 to November 2021 Additional Information SELECTED SKILLS    Apps/Models: Active Directory, VMware, CommVault, Microsoft Server 2012, MS Office