Engineer Engineer Engineer Jacksonville, FL Experience Profile:  • 16 years of experience in the IT industry, of which more than 8+ years in Critical Banking Application / Production Support working on various platforms such as WebSphere (4 years), BMC Control-M Work load automation (2+ years), CSM (Client Service Manager – 1+ year), Unix/Windows System Administration (10 years) backed by Sun Solaris 9 Certification and ITSM practitioner (9+ years) backed by ITIL Certification.  • Experience in large IT corporate environments, specifically in the area of controlled production environments or in Financial Services Technology in a client-facing function.   • Experienced in supporting complex application and infrastructure domains and end to end configuration management. Build up technical subject matter expertise on the applications being supported including business flows, application architecture, and hardware configuration. Maintain documentation, knowledge articles, and run books.   • Configure real time monitoring to ensure application OLA/SLAs are achieved and maximum application availability (up time) using an array of monitoring tools.   • Build and maintain effective and productive relationships with the stakeholders in business, development, infrastructure, and third party systems / data providers & vendors  • Experienced in creating and performing Disaster Recovery plans;  • Experienced in ITIL / best practice service context; Creating Key Operational Procedures for Service Operation phase of ITSM life cycle; creating known error records; SLAM charts; RACI charts and Flow diagrams; and also as part of Continual Service Improvement, experienced in finding KPI’s based on experience and patterns. Recommend operational metrics. Analyze metrics to understand performance and identify opportunities for continuous service improvements; Provide hands on technical support and post-mortem root cause analysis using ITIL standards of Incident Management, Service Request fulfillment, Change Management, Knowledge Management, and Problem Management.   • Experienced in planning, on boarding, designing, scheduling, monitoring, testing and troubleshooting applications into BMC Control-M automation  • Experienced in WebSphere Network Deployment Server administration including the design and Implementation of horizontal and vertical clustering and application management in UNIX environment. Installation, configuration, administration and maintenance (upgrade, patching) of WebSphere application servers v5.x, v6.0, v6.1.x and v7.0 on Solaris 7, 8, and 9 severs and also performance monitoring of the overall server environment including web servers, application server and DB servers to make applications cluster-safe. SSL (Personal/Signer) Certificate Installation and maintenance. Implementing LOAD/Cluster fail over tests for Enterprise applications. Analyzing and closing IVA and EVA report issues. Handling application release, code promotion and re-basing after each Production release  • Installed and setup Jump-start servers for provisioning Solaris 8 and 9. Experienced in patching Solaris servers, VERITAS Volume Manager and monitoring and tuning performance for Solaris servers. Automating system tasks using scripts written in Shell scripting, Python and Perl.  • Gathering information on severity 1 issues and submitting root-cause analysis (RCA)  • Worked within SLA and 24/7 environments, excellent communication skills and capable of working in a group or at an individual capacity, hard working and fast learner.   • Interactive with various vendors for support and troubleshooting.  • Good Customer service skills    Certifications:  • ITIL Foundation Certificate in IT Service Management.  • Sun Certified System Administrator : Solaris 2.7  • Sun Certified Network Administrator : Solaris 2.7  • Sun Certified System Administrator : Solaris 2.9  • Microsoft Certified Professional Work Experience Engineer DB Services New Jersey, Inc September 2015 to February 2019 Primary Role handled:  SL2 Production Application Support Engineer    • SME for Portfolio Calculator, Risk Applications and provide day-to-day operational production support. Responsible for Application release in Production environment. Executing minor adhoc / break fix releases on daily basis and major releases on weekends. Closely work with application release manager to co-ordinate change window and resource management schedule. Continuous analysis of production issues and feedback bug fixes into application backlog for future releases.  • Ensure that level1 Service Operations team provides optimum service level to the business lines that what we support; provided technical and specialist leadership.  • Managed escalations by working with Client Services and other Service Operations Specialists and relevant technology functions to accurately resolve escalated issues quickly and also used to take overall responsibility for the resolution of incidents and problems within the team; Oversee the resolution of complex incidents; Ensuring that the right problem solving techniques and processes has been applied.  • Prevent problems and incidents from happening, eliminate recurring incidents and minimize the impact of incidents that cannot be prevented by creating knowledge articles and FAQ's in Servicenow and linking with Incidents to enrich the Known Error database to reduce the reoccurring Incidents resolution time.  • Understand thoroughly the end to end architecture and application support process/escalation procedures; ensure that defined operations and support processes are adhered to by the level1 team members and peers.  • Configuring and monitoring alerts in ITRS Geneos monitoring tool and tracking activities, analyzing issues, supporting the resolution of issues and conflicts and preparing reports and meetings and taking ownership and influence on production and digital assets  • Undertake start of day, intra-day, end of day and end of period procedures as defined in the Service Operations run book to ensure that production configuration items deliver required services. Executing LDN/NYC EOD batch processing for bond closing. Trouble shooting / investigating in case of bond failures. Executing oracle database queries on daily / weekly / monthly basis to pull regulatory reports as per SLA and send it to senior management.  • Provide strict production gatekeeper function by reviewing the new changes/solutions and ensuring that no changes introduced in production operation unless all prerequisites have been met and operations teams able to support. Work with Release Management and Transition Management on application configurations changes  • Owned the responsibility of on boarding a new XVA business application end-to-end from development to launching in Production. Chair regular meetings with XVA stakeholder/management/development team to review service and track continuous improvements; Identify risk and issues and contribute in Service Management related audits and ensure policy-compliance; Define OLAs with key stakeholder and ensures the team understands OLAs and are aligned to business SLAs (realistic and in line with customer expectations);Identifying required metrics and ensure they are established, monitored and improved where appropriate.    Additional Roles and Responsibilities Handled (Parallel to SL2 Role):  Client Service Manager (CSM)  • Acting as Client Service Manager (CSM) for PnL applications. Managing vendor and different technical teams to provide set operational level as well as service level agreement to clients.  • Conduct weekly CAB meetings as change approver. Attend and facilitate program and project planning meeting to prioritize bug fixes, resiliency and performance enhancements, clearly articulate potential benefits in form of acceptance criteria's  • Establishing/leading communication with global incident management in case of P3C/P2/P1 Issues and involve relevant technical teams as well as upstream/downstream personals to resolve issues and also provide periodic updates and RCA/Impact analysis to senior management and business stake holders.  • Leading and coordinating vendor and in-house technical team to actively participant in day-to-day Service Operation processes and functions to meet OLA and SLA and also create customized dashboards and develop target reports.  Automation Lead  • Led the cron to control-M migration and Release automation project for Portfolio Calculator application in which, activities include the full life cycle from initial design, development through the release into production as well as post production support in Control-M. Automated server related part of application release steps to reduce the implementation time to 50%.  • Own the process of tracking manual tasks and identifying means of automation, employing both strategic and short term tactical automation means; on boarding new application to Control-M as per Deutsche Bank Control-M standard. Installing Control-M agents on Windows/Linux/Solaris UAT and PROD servers through ITSM Change management process. Registering the Risk UAT/PROD applications to Control-M servers and the OS accounts the jobs run as needed to Control-M servers. Responsible for Control-M user and security group setup for Risk Applications and also adding Risk Application users to respective ACL group.  • Creating advanced scheduling jobs with job dependency for batch processing.    Environment:  BMC Control-M Workload Automation client 8.0.00.900, Humming Bird Connectivity 14 - Exceed, Geneos Active Console GA3.1.2-150715, SolAdmin 7.1.1.158, dbCanvas, Jconsole, Service Now, Solaris, Linux, Windows, AIX, MS SQL. Tata Consultancy Services June 2005 to December 2009 WebSphere Administrator Tata Consultancy Services (Client: CITI Group ) - Jacksonville, FL March 2007 to November 2009 Responsibilities Managed:  • Installed, built and performance tuned WebSphere-based web serving environment; Installation and maintenance (upgrade/patch) WebSphere app server6.1.x environment; Application client Installation and upgrade; Enabled fail over and load-balancing through a clustered serving environment (using BigIP for network load balancing). Advising development teams on making applications cluster-safe.  • Responsible for Application assembly and deployment, Source control and configuration management of application code and serving environment configuration, Performance monitoring of the overall application serving environment including web servers, application server and DB servers; Trouble shooting of WAS environment and applications (Analyze JVM logs, Trace Logs, FFDC, native logs, java core, heap dumps), SSL and WAS Certificate Install and replacement, WAS performance tuning by optimizing JVM parameters, Maintaining Development/UAT (Testing)/PST (Break fix environment)/Pre-production/PROD horizontal clustering environment, Implementation of Horizontal/Vertical scaling for IBM WebSphere Application servers, Installation/upgrade of Apache IBM HTTP Servers, Siteminder instances; Conducting LOAD tests for Enterprise applications; Implementation of business continuity tests (COB) tests for Enterprise applications; Handling incidents/Trouble records and Request for change through Virtual Change; Coordinating all system management activities including software upgrades and performance monitoring and tuning, Analyzing and closing IVA and EVA report issues, Conducting Cluster fail over tests, Application release in Production environment; Handling code promotion and re-basing after each production release; Creating new projects, Production Integration streams and child streams [UAT/Dev/Production Support (PST)/ Pre-production] for each new application;, Collection of JVM statistics, garbage collection data and Automating administrative tasks using shell, Perl and Python scripting languages.  • 24/7 support for Production Application/Server issues.  Environment:  WebSphere (5.x, 6.0 and 6.1.x), IHS, Oracle, F5, Tivoli Performance Viewer, Solaris tools, TCP stacks/process dumps, RAD (6.x, 7.x), Clear Case, Siteminder Infrastructure Analyst Tata Consultancy Services (Client: CITI Group ) - Jacksonville, FL June 2005 to February 2007 Responsibilities Managed:  • Part of High Availability Team - Internet Run Time Services to ensure 99% up-time of all the applications and systems in production; Citigroup (Mission Critical Internet Application) account online Production support; IBM - Web Sphere server administration and application management; Monitored and tuned the server resources based on applications to cater banking application requirements; Remote server administration and managed web based banking applications. Provided Support to customers on server and application related issues; Gathered information on severity 1 issues, submitted root-cause analysis (CID report); Worked with vendors resolved issues on 3rd party systems connected to Citi network  Environment:  Sun Enterprise servers, Java, JSP, TCL and Shell scripting, Oracle 9i, MS-SQL 2000, Mercury Site Scope, Active Watch, WRQ Reflection X, and KANA secure messaging system Global Software Limited November 2002 to May 2005 UNIX Administrator Global Software Limited - Chennai, Tamil Nadu November 2002 to May 2005 Part of Global Infrastructure Operations team responsible for Prod, CNR, QA/STG and Development UNIX servers; Handled production server support through Incident management and implementation of changes through change management; planned scope and managed critical production deployments involving globally dispersed deployment teams. Projects included different roles in data center migration; represented the group in planning and coordination of meetings with other groups; Level 2 support for troubleshooting, performance, and configuration issues with Solaris, Linux, VCS, VxVM, and VMware ESX; coordinated team-level response to issues during scheduled out of hours windows. Handled ITSM Work Orders and Incidents; Change Owner role in ITSM framework using Remedy-based IT management solution; Documented activities and mentored other team members. Worked with application team for application releases; Monitored servers using Health check scripts, Team Quest, BMC Patrol and troubleshooting the issues; Worked with Storage, Application teams for CNR test  Environment:  Sun Enterprise server-E2900, sunt2000, sunv440, sunv240, sunv880, A1000 and Sun blade, Sun Solaris 8, 9 and Red hat Linux Wipro Technologies February 2001 to October 2002 System Administrator Wipro Technologies February 2001 to October 2002 Managed the Corporate Network Backups by working with Windows, Oracle, UNIX groups in ensuring that backups are run on a regular basis both in production / DR environments; Troubleshoot any issues that may encounter with the VERITAS Netback up Managed tape inventory of onsite and offsite locations, ensured that tapes were vaulted on an ongoing basis in both Production / DR environments; Administration of the UNIX servers in Development | Prod and DR site; Monitored Prod and DR UNIX servers using Team Quest, Nagios and Site Scope; Configuration of Site Scope for Production UNIX servers; Installed and configured Apache Web Server; Responsible for patching the UNIX servers; Assisted in basic SAN administration tasks systems such as creating luns replacing spares disks, and monitoring the Filer logs; Configured Kick Start and installed in HP Proliant servers; Tuned the servers based on the Internal UNIX audit; Responsible for the UNIX environment in the second shift  Environment: Sun Enterprise server E3500 & E4500, Ultra 1/2/5/10/60/80 & Sun blade, Sun Solaris 7/ 8    Slash Support January 99 - January 01 System Administrator Slash Support (Client: Mohan Breweries & Distilleries Ltd) January 1999 to January 2001 Responsibilities Managed:  • Installation and configured Solaris 7 servers. Performed user and group management; Managed existing documentation for systems and created new procedures to support new products; Configured NFS server and clients within environment to share the resources; Configured NIS servers in the Environment; Handled Daily System Administration works; Printer and File server management; Troubleshoot day-to-day server related issues and problems in hardware, operating system, applications and network; Implemented local backup using tar and cpio; Provided operational support, performance monitoring, backup management and end user support  Environment:  Sun Enterprise server E3500, Sun Solaris 7, Linux, NT servers, NT workstations, windows95 desktops. Systems Engineer JJCET September 1995 to December 1998 JJCET one of the pioneering technical institutions in Trichy offers Graduate programs in various engineering disciplines. JJCET is recognized as an exemplary institution of fame and name that qualify itself to pick up many a laurel in the long run. The unique character of this institution is its constant and continuous perseverance for perfection in all the disciplines at Graduate levels in teaching, learning and research. This institution of technical education is a lodestar in the horizon of academics.  • Installation of Windows 95 ;Maintenance of LAN that includes novel NetWare and Windows NT; Desktop Support; Installation of Software and hardware; Printer Management; Guided students in Computer Lab for Programming in C, C++;Project Guidance; Setup the LAB for University Exams; Managed whole college computer systems  Environment:  Novel Netware, HCL PC, Windows 95, Windows NT, Linux, Novel NetWare Education Bachelor's in Computer Science and Engineering Skills Apache, E10000, Linux, Solaris, Sun, Nfs, Bmc, Database, Oracle, Oracle 8, Sql, Rational, Clear case, Deployment, Networking, Tcp/ip, Exceed, Version control, Ndm, Tcp, Ticketing, Help Desk, Production Support, Desktop Support Additional Information Technical Competency:  Servers  Sun Enterprise server-E10000, E6000, E6500, E250, E450, E3500 and E4500, Sun4v Sun Fire T200, Ultra 1/2/5/10/60/80, and Sun blade. Linux Servers.    Web Server IBM HTTP Server , Apache Web Server (2.x)  Protocols TCP/IP, FTP, SFTP, SCP, NDM, Apani  Networking NFS, NIS and Auto FS  Tools  Mercury Active Watch, Mercury Site Scope, Humming Bird connectivity 14 - Exceed, Toad for Oracle 8.6.1,WinSCP 5.5.6 ,SQL*Plus 9.2.0.1.0,Geneos Active Console GA3.1.2-150715,RtView,SolAdmin 7.1.1.158,dbCanvas, Jconsole and BMC Control-M Workload Automation client 8.0.00.900.    Database Oracle9i Enterprise Edition Release 9.2.0.8.0, Oracle Database 10g Enterprise Edition Release 10.2.0.3.0  Single Sign On Site Minder Web Agent Version: 5QMR7-CR13, Site Minder Web Agent Version: 6QMR5-CR16.  Development/Deployment Tools RAD (6.x, 7.x)  Version Control  Rational Clear case Explorer 2003.06.10+, Clear case Project Explorer 2003.06.10+, IBM Rational Application Developer 6.0.1, Rational Clear case Remote Client 6.14.9, Rational Clear case Remote Client 7.0.1.D061004.    O/S Sun Solaris 7, 8, 9, 10, Linux, Windows 2000, Windows XP.