Systems Engineer/ Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer/<span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Engineer/ Administrator - Missile Defense Agency Huntsville Harvest, AL Work Experience Systems Engineer/ Administrator Missile Defense Agency Huntsville September 2018 to Present • Work with Remedy help desk ticketing system to assign, update and work tier 1 and tier 2 trouble tickets.  • Desk side end user-support to include PC hardware and Windows 7/10 options and settings as well as network functionality  • Administer customer accounts, profiles and password unlocks and reset via active directory (ADUC)  • Setup and configure workstations, printers and other peripheral devices for customers  • Assist network engineers with switch port information and relocate network fibers from patch panel to switch  • Working knowledge of TCP/IP DNS, print queues and network printing  • Troubleshoot system problems, and repair in a timely manner while ensuring customer and management have timely status updates    General Dynamics Mission Systems Systems Administrator Missile Defense Agency - Huntsville, AL August 2016 to September 2018 • Provide first and second tier problem and resolution efforts to support Red Hat Linux 6 and Windows7/Server 2008R2 based customers  • Open, track, update, and ensure trouble tickets are resolved to customer satisfaction.  • Provide IT support to include setup of workstations, switchboxes, printers, and all related software.  • I have experience working with Active Directory, and MS Exchange creating user accounts, as well as E-mail accounts  • I have experience working in a DoD environment    Leidos Senior Helpdesk Analyst Missile Defense Agency - Huntsville, AL June 2015 to August 2016 • Answer trouble calls, and troubleshoot tier 1, and tier 2 issues  • Assist customers with account administration on multiple networks, via Active directory  • Provide IT support to include setup of workstations, and all related software. Senior Systems Technician/ Systems Administrator General Dynamics Information Technology - Fort Belvoir, VA January 2014 to June 2015 • Configured new workstations for use on enterprise networks using Microsoft SCCM.  • Assisted customers remotely, and on site with tier 1 and tier 2 workstations, and networking issues.  • I installed workstations and other peripheral devices.  • I ensured timely customer status updates to customer and IT management. Systems Analyst Verizon Business Systems - Fort Belvoir, VA October 2010 to September 2013 Answered trouble calls, and troubleshot tier 1, and tier 2 issues.  • Created and maintained user accounts, profiles, and passwords.  • Modify permissions for users on classified local area network.  • Performed restores of customer data on classified local area network.  • I have experience with installation of workstations, monitors, scanners, printers, and other peripherals. System Administrator/Hardware Technician Raytheon Information and Intelligence Systems - Springfield, VA August 2005 to October 2010 • Created network accounts on classified local area networks.  • Modified permissions for users on classified local area networks.  • Performed restores of customer data on classified local area network.  • Issued, reset, and unlocked customer network accounts.  • Installed workstations, monitors, scanners, and printers.  • Ran fiber optic cables from network switch to workstations.  • Configured switch ports to enable or disabled status, and set port security configurations.    National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) Help Desk Technician NJVC-LLC, Washington Navy Yard - Washington, DC February 2005 to August 2005 • Researched, resolved, and responded to questions received via telephone calls, emails, and callbacks in a timely manner, in accordance with NGA standards.  • Provided positive customer service with, exceptional communication and problem solving skills.  • Provided accurate solutions to customer problems to ensure customer productivity, and a positive impact on customer satisfaction. Desktop Support Technician Pentagon - Washington, DC January 2004 to February 2005 • Performed system hardware functions to include remedial and preventive maintenance on SUN as well as PC workstations, and associated peripheral devices  • Experienced in troubleshooting failures on networks and LAN/WAN type environments  • Strong communication skills when dealing with customers Fiber Optics Technician Army Headquarters Intelligence and Security Command - Fort Belvoir, VA October 2002 to December 2003 Fort Belvoir, VA  October 2002- December 2003    • Installed, troubleshot, and repaired fiber optic lines on classified networks.  • Responded to service trouble calls to maintain network connectivity.  • Maintained accountability of assigned equipment worth over $500, 000 with no losses.  • Ran fiber optic cables from network switch to workstations. Education A.A.S. Dalton State College - Dalton, GA Additional Information • Served 6 years active duly in the United States Army  • I have over 16 years experience in the information systems technology field.