Network Engineer Network Engineer Network Engineer - Facet Technologies East Peoria, IL Hard working, energetic, knowledgeable Information Technology professional with a proven track record for success. Achieved maximum system up time and efficiency through the use of effective communication and team work. Well liked team leader, team player and coworker.    System Administration is my primary interest. I have extensive professional experience with Windows operating systems, Linux operating systems and Cisco networking. In addition, I have experience in highly available environments which require very strict security protocol practices. Work Experience Network Engineer Facet Technologies - Peoria, IL October 2018 to Present • Daily administration of small and medium sized business networks.  • Implementation of a large scale network monitoring system (NMS).  • Sales engineer duties as necessary.  • Coach network technicians to provide better technical support. Systems Administrator II Belcan, Inc - Peoria, IL April 2011 to October 2018 • Managed 300+ Cisco, Force10 and Dell Networking Layer 2 and Layer 3 Switches.  • Daily maintenance of a multi sensor Snort IDS/IPS system.  • Responsible for daily incident, service request and change management response.  • Daily administration of iptables rulesets.  • Implemented a network monitoring system to decrease downtime, proactively monitor equipment and predict needs.  • Daily maintenance and upkeep of RSA SecureID Authentication Manager 8.x / Microsoft Multifactor Authentication.  • Palo Alto PanoOS 7.x and 8.x administration. Systems Administrator II Logistics Health, Inc - La Crosse, WI 2007 to 2011 • Managed 1000+ Windows based workstations and 250 + Windows based servers.  • Daily maintenance of over 150 SQL 2005 and 2008 databases.  • Responsible for security compliance set forth by the United States Department of Defense. (DIACAP).  • Recommended, purchased and implemented server software and hardware upgrades.  • Planned budgets, departmental goals and personal goals for the next year.  • Maintained 50+ HP Procurve Switches.  • Analyzed, planned and recommended equipment for business growth.  • Researched, documented and tested disaster recovery scenarios.  • United States Department of Defense security clearance holder. Education Associates of Applied Science in Computer Networking Joliet Junior College - Joliet, IL 1999 to 2001 Skills Switches (10+ years), CISCO (8 years), IDS (6 years), IPS (6 years), NETWORK MONITORING (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses CCNA September 2016 ITIL October 2014 Additional Information Technical Skill Set  • Experience in large workstation roll outs using multiple deployment methods (Ghost, PXE, answer files, Sysprep, FOG).  • Creation and administration of a multi site Active Directory infrastructures.  • Planned and implemented several site expansions.  • Cisco switch implementation and administration.  • Extensive knowledge of Windows Server 2003 and 2008 Terminal Server NLB clusters.  • Exceptional knowledge of planning, testing and implementation of group policies and security templates for servers and workstations.  • Ubuntu 8.x - 17.x & Centos 6.x, 7.x administration.  • Linux IPTables rulesets.  • Snort IDS/IPS implementation and administration.  • Planned, implemented and deployed a large scale network monitoring, baselining and alerting suite.  • Experience with front line support of proprietary Windows .NET applications.  • IIS website administration. (.NET, PHP, HTML)  • Excellent hardware troubleshooting skills.  • Microsoft SQL 2005 and 2008 administration, maintenance and performance analysis.  • VMWare ESX Server 3.0 to Vsphere 4.0 administration.  • Extensive experience in disaster recovery planning and testing.