Sr. Network Engineer Sr. Network Engineer Sr. System Engineer Fort Lauderdale, FL Work Experience Sr. Network Engineer Performance Edge, Broward and Dade County, FL - MSP January 2016 to August 2019 • Managing and providing technical assistance to clients and all help desk staff.  • Adhering to SLAs, compliance agreements and IT best practices.  • Architecting, designing and evaluating newly acquired business network infrastructure environments and spearheading necessary implementations to address points of concern to increase performance, reliability and resilience within the network environment.  • Project management of network upgrades and new system and application implementations.  • Purchasing, warranty and license management of all networking and workstation hardware and software including maintaining support agreements with manufacturers, and vendors. Sr. Systems Engineer / IT Manager GFI Mail Essentials, Monitor and Archiver, Cisco - Sunrise, FL January 2013 to January 2016 Design, monitoring, and troubleshooting of entire network infrastructure consisting of:  MS Exchange 2010 email server (On Premise), VMware virtual machines, Citrix 6.5 Farm, backup servers (Backup Exec to EMC Data Domain VNX 5300 SAN), UNIX ERP system, HP Proliant DL360 and 380 GEN 4-9 servers, Linux web server (Red Hat 7), Windows Server 2012 R2 and Windows 10 and Xen Desktop workstations, Intel NUC PCs, WYSE thin clients, Surface Pros 3-4, ShoreTel phone system, Watchguard XTM 510 firewall, GFI Mail Essentials, Monitor and Archiver, Cisco 3900 router and Catalyst 2960 switches, Cisco Meraki MX64W and MX84, Cisco Meraki Systems manager, Aruba WIFI APs, AXIS camera system, PinPoint WHMS, Zebra label printers, Brother MFC-L5900DW printers and Apple mobile devices.  • Research and evaluation of new technologies and collaborating with programmers to diagnose software issues/concerns and recommend software modifications and patches.  • Manage I.T. helpdesk staff and assign tickets via SysAid knowledgebase/ticketing system.  • Creating, processing and adhering to department budget for purchasing hardware and software.  • Maintain network connectivity and managing support for 30+ repair and retail store locations nationwide including the corporate office. Systems Administrator xG Technology - Sunrise, FL September 2005 to January 2013 • Responsible for the overall design, implementation, and management of network infrastructure.  • Configuration and deployment of virtual machines, and virtual hosts. (VMWare w/ESXI and Virtual Box)  • Support, management and monitoring of Cisco routers, Cisco Catalyst and Dell Power Connect switches, Untangled firewalls, Cisco VPN Access, Microsoft Windows server and desktop OS, Apple Mac, and Ubuntu Linux desktops and laptop workstations as well as tablets and mobile devices running IOS and Android. Hardware and software troubleshooting.  • Management of Group Policy Objects (GPO), file/folder permissions.  • Create and manage Active Directory Users and Computers accounts (ADUC) and perform regularly scheduled maintenance.  • Responsible for the configuration and deployment of Ubuntu 14.04 Linux servers hosted on Dell Power Edge and Tangent rack mounted servers.  • Support of Asterisk Free PBX VOIP PBX with Grandstream and Polycom VOIP phones.  • Maintain and troubleshoot Microsoft Exchange email accounts including setting up user accounts, resetting passwords, backing up and archiving, troubleshooting connectivity issues, repairing damaged PST/OST files, setting up rules and calendars, configuring Exchange Active Sync on mobile devices, along with maintaining Barracuda email archiver.  • Setup and monitor of time management system. (Time Clock Plus)  • Design, implementation and termination of structured Cat5e and Cat6 cabling in both office and cubicle environments.  • HP, Canon, Samsung MFC Printers, and HP plotter setup and troubleshooting.  • Removal and prevention of Viruses, Malware, Adware, PUAs, Rootkits, Bots, Trojans and other malicious types with Sophos, Microsoft Security Essentials, MRT, Malwarebytes and SUPERAntiSpyware software.  • Use of ticketing system to track end user issues, needs, and concerns. (TRAC and Redmine)  • Provide 24/7 on-call technical support VIA remote service applications to nationwide employees.  • Create and document network diagrams, wiring diagrams and disaster recovery plans.  • Create and maintain network backups, both in house and off sight locations. (Mozy Pro and RSYNC) and disaster recovery.  • Compose daily, weekly, monthly, and yearly reports to address and discuss issues and concerns with managers, directors and executives, as well as working with company CFO on budget and purchasing plans Skills Cisco, Citrix, Network cabling, Vmware, Xenapp, Data center, Exchange, Firewalls, Nas, Networking, Noc, Virtualization, Microsoft security, Linux, Mobile devices, Backup exec, Malware, Avaya, Polycom, Voip Additional Information - Skills Set -    • Network architecting, implementation and performing troubleshooting analysis of physical, virtual and cloud environments.    Operating Systems and Email  • Microsoft Windows Server 2003 - 2012R2, Windows XP - 10 OSs  • Microsoft SQL 2008 and 2012 setup and configuration  • Linux server and desktop OSs, and Apple MAC OSX OSs  • Microsoft Office 365 and Exchange servers    VOIP Phone Systems  • Cisco Call Manager, ShoreTel, Ring Central, Free PBX, Grandstream, Polycom, Alcatel and Avaya phone systems.    Virtualization & Cloud Environments  • Setup and configuration of VMware, VMware Horizon, vSphere, ESXI, Virtual Box, Hyper V, Citrix XenApp and Xen Desktop, and Microsoft Azure.    Networking equipment and Firewalls  • Cisco routers  • Cisco, HP, Dell and NetGear Managed Switches  • Cisco Meraki (MX64W and MX84W)  • Security camera installation and configuration  • Dell SonicWall TZ series, WatchGuard Firebox M and XTM series, and Untangled Firewalls    Backup & Storage  • Backup Exec, Carbonite, Veeam, MozyPro, and MozyHome backup & recovery software to SAN, NAS or cloud    Structured Cabling  • Designing and implementing structure wide network cabling using Cat3, Cat5e, Cat6, and fiber optics    Anti-Virus & Malware Removal and Prevention  • Virus and Malware removal and prevention with: AVG, Kaspersky, Trend Micro, McAfee, Malwarebytes, Microsoft Security Essentials, Norton, Sophos, Spybot Search and Destroy/ Super Anti Spyware, Viper and Windows MRT  Support  • Building and repairing and support of custom and manufacturer desktops, laptops and mobile devices.  • Data Center and NOC management. Managing end user support. Bug tracking and working with vendors to provide patches, updates and hot fixes for mission critical applications and appliances.