IT Support Specialist IT Support Specialist IT Support Specialist - RES IT generalist with over 15+ years experience supporting Linux and Windows servers in cloud and hybrid environments. In addition to Administering servers I have been an integral part of server migrations for several state, federal and corporate entities. Thirdly I have extensive experience diagnosing LAN / WAN connectivity issues spanning multiple regions and deploying network and server monitoring tools like Nagios and Zabbix to monitor entire infrastructures. Work Experience IT Support Specialist RES - Broomfield, CO June 2019 to Present Managed user accounts and access to corporate resources  ? Utilized Remedy ticketing for processing customer requests and diagnosing  ? Diagnosed software applications issues in a SAS environment  ? User administration in office 360 and Active directory AWS Systems Manager Skyland Analytics - Boulder, CO May 2018 to March 2019 AWS Linux AMI, Redhat and Centos administration (patching, updates and deployments)  ? Utilized bash and Python scripts for automation  ? IAM administration, maintenance, audits, policy implementation  ? Actively monitored AWS GuardDuty, WAF and IDS software and ACL configuration to protect the infrastructure  ? Docker configuration and deployment in the AWS environment  ? Wrote bash and python scripts to automate tasks and create cron jobs  ? Managed AWS services ECS, RDS, ECS, S3 Cloudwatch and Cloudformation  ? I implemented new policies and documented processes for security, disaster recovery Systems Administrator Boulder, CO August 2017 to October 2017 Server patching and configuration for AIX, Redhat and Centos  ? Oracle DB patching and monitoring with Splunk and Nagios  ? Backup and tape rotation with AS400  ? Used VMware extensively to deploy and manage servers and SCCOM for managing windows instances  ? Monitoring of Windows servers, error logs and disaster recovery testing  ? Managed RHL servers running SaaS services  ? Created bash scripts for monitoring system process and restarting applications if they stop  ? AWS administration, user administration, instance creation and monitoring  ? Actively monitored network security using host based firewalls and IDS software Systems Administrator HPE - Fort Collins, CO February 2015 to June 2017 Server builds and Maintenance for HP, IBM and Dell servers including system board replacements, memory and hardware upgrades  ? Perform hands on break-fix and/or maintenance requests in the Data Center in a 24x7 environment which includes, but not limited to replacement of server system boards, add-on cards, memory, hard disks, network switches, storage devices, tape drives, cabling, etc.  ? Install, configure, troubleshoot software including, but not limited to Operating Systems (MS Windows 2008R2 2012R2, CentOS, Red Hat Linux, Ubuntu and other variations of the Unix operating Environment), ESX, VMware, security software and any other software needed to run the HP Cloud Services operational and customer environment.  ? Install, configure and troubleshoot hardware, software and network issues in an expedient manner to restore connectivity or functionality within the data center environment.  ? Add new infrastructure deployments and additional capacity within the data center environment to support Cloud Services, which includes unpack and stack, cabling, troubleshoot, and test.  ? Rack and stack servers (DL360, DL380, SL230s, BL460s, System X)  ? Active Directory administration user account maintenance and server security  ? Designed and maintained Zabbix server to monitor 3000+ servers  ? web site administration with IIS, apache and java applications on Windows Server 2012  ? Openvpn administration Systems Administrator TransFirst - Broomfield, CO September 2014 to December 2014 Integral part of the SWD pod researching software for a development network  ? Research existing servers to determine system hardware and software requirements for development environment  ? Utilization of Agile to track the progress of projects and tasks  ? Red Hat Linux systems administration  ? Systems and web site migration to AWS Systems Administrator SecondPhase - Boulder, CO May 2014 to August 2014 IIS administration, deployment, configuration for hosted websites  ? Windows Server 2008 R2 and 2012 R2 patching and maintenance  ? Apache Tomcat installation and configuration for hosted web sites  ? Documentation of process and procedures for new site installations, configuration and deployment  ? Research and develop best practice guidelines for web site security  ? Client migration of web services to AWS Systems Administrator IBM - Boulder, CO August 2013 to November 2013 Integral member of a migration project for the state of California  ? Build and deploy data servers being used as Hyper-V hosts  ? Configure DHCP, DNS, File, Domain, and Gateway servers to interface with IBM mainframe  ? Migrate server data from physical architecture to clients on Hyper V hosts  ? Symantec Backup Exec installation and deployment for servers and workstations  ? DHCP server setup and configuration  ? Red Hat Linux configuration, patching and kernel upgrades Hewlett Packard - Fort Collins, CO February 2013 to August 2013 Systems & Cyber Security  ? Facilitate the network migration of the R&D network and data center  ? Reengineer and upgrade Proliant and blade servers running Windows Server 2003 and 2008  ? HP SAN configuration, monitoring and maintenance  ? Symantec Backup Exec installation and deployment for servers and workstations  ? Deployed HP IMC to manage network resources, monitor servers and act as an IDS system  ? Vulnerability scanning of corporate assets to test systems for security risks and securing non-essential ports and other software vulnerabilities  ? Responsible for server and network security responded to internal and external threats  ? Implement data protection procedure using tape backup with offsite storage  ? Utilization of McAfee host intrusion prevention software, security logging and vulnerability testing  ? Manage system resources using a Linux server for SNMP and internal web site using Apache Systems Technician National Renewable Energy Laboratory - Golden, CO August 2012 to February 2013 Network diagnostics and systems security implementation using encryption and Proteus IPAM platform  ? Clients feasibility studies for software compatibility and system security with full disk encryption  ? Remote systems administration to inventory and determine hardware and software requirements  ? MAC address filtering for wired and wireless network access with Cisco ACS server to prevent unauthorized access to secure networks and services  ? Symantec Backup Exec installation for workstations  ? Utilize Proteus to control security and access to Aps, wireless controllers, routers and the internal network Senior Support Technician III Knowledge Universe Technologies - Portland, OR October 2011 to April 2012 Integral member of an engineering team supporting a nation-wide network upgrade. Work with Network Services group, providing remote tier II support for over 1700 locations. Work with a lead provisioning specialist to upgrade a nation-wide network consisting of 1700    ? Develop process flow, configuration, and support documents for project  ? Successfully coordinate and support multiple vendors in multiple states  ? Supporting major network migration for over 1700 LAN/WAN environments remotely  ? Security analysis of systems and network assets to ensure they are locked down Reporting and tracking outages with major service providers and LEC's  ? Configuring Cisco PIX firewalls, Switches, and Cisco Aironet wireless access points.  ? Utilize Linux systems for resource reporting and MRTG graphing on an Apache web server Systems and Network Administrator / Project Manager Millikan Medical, D Comfort Construction, B&F Plumbing - Portland, OR December 2002 to June 2011 Consulted on numerous short and long-term contracts providing a variety of services, including:  ? Notebook and desktop computer diagnostics  ? Windows Server administration 2003 & 2008 (Wintel)  ? Exchange 2003 mailbox administration  ? Wired and wireless network configuration, VPN configuration for Cisco Catalyst 4500  ? Project management of new clients sites scheduling builds and provisioning new circuits  ? Malware and virus removal, registry editing for Windows operating systems XP - Seven  ? Windows, Linux and Macintosh hardware and software support  ? OS migration for desktop computers Windows Vista to Windows Seven  ? DNS, DHCP, Exchange and Active Directory configuration Systems Engineer Time Warner Telecom - Portland, OR 1997 to 2002 Provide technical support for corporate client/server systems and manage all patches and security safeguards including firewalls and antivirus software  ? User account maintenance with Active directory services and UNIX command line interface  ? Configuration and maintenance of SAN and backup devices  ? Sun Solaris maintenance, kernel updates, patches and hardware upgrades  ? Collaborate with department managers to implement new guidelines and workflow documents  ? Removal and addition of routes on Cisco and Juniper routers running OSPF, RIP and BGP  ? Perform Internal audit of routers acquired through acquisitions of new ISPs and ensured customer database matched circuit diagrams  ? Configuration of Cisco switches and routers to create VPNs and add/delete routes  ? Supervise Tier-3 support center for the network operations center using Citrix Education BS in Computer Information Systems CSU - Portland, OR Present Skills Linux, Unix, Cisco, Dns, Firewalls Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS SUMMARY    Applications: Confluence, Jira, ISA, IPS, Hyper V, Vsphere, Zabbix, Nagios, Confluence, SALT, Docker and Zabbix  Network Tools: Cisco Aironet, PIX firewalls, Cisco Switches, DNS, DHCP, WIFI, BGP, OSPF  Scripting Languages Bash, Python  Databases: SQL Server, Postgresql  Operating Systems: UNIX, Linux, Windows Server (2003, through 2016), Windows XP - 10  Cloud Technologies AWS