Accounts Receivable/Accounts Payable Specialist Accounts Receivable/Accounts Payable Specialist Accounts Receivable/Accounts Payable Specialist Sanford, FL To find a position with a growing organization where my accounting skills and collection experience can be used in the environment. Keep accurate records; Highly trainable and friendly personality; Bilingual in English/French. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Accounts Receivable/Accounts Payable Specialist Earnest Products - Sanford, FL February 2018 to Present Create, post and process around 100 invoices daily  Accuretely process and apply payment to open invoices  Check bank accounts twice daily for payments received and post into accounting system  Complete AR summary every Friday and send out to customers  Maintain an accurate aging report and make collection calls  Communicate with customers regarding invoicing, payments and other activities regarding transactions   Open, sort and deliver department mail daily  match invoices to PO and enter them into accounting system  Organize, register, scan and file invoices, checks, and other documents Operations Accountant Mattamy Homes - Maitland, FL October 2015 to October 2017 Responsible for completing the weekly Sales/Starts/Closings report  Prepared all bank deposits, record and post journal entries to general ledger and reconcile accounts   Processed stop payment, void/reissues, ACH returns, and check images  Prepared design center commissions  Created spreadsheet and calculated margin analysis on all sales contracts   Updated visibility report weekly and house pricing worksheet as needed  Designed and built an Access Database to generate backlog reports and keep track of construction and permitting stages G/L Bookkeeper Sentry Management - Longwood, FL April 2012 to February 2015 * Prepared and analyzed over 60 different properties month/year end closing financial   statements.  * Reconciled bank statements.  * Checked figures and postings for correct entry, mathematical accuracy, and proper codes in   A/P and A/R.  * Keyed in budgets for properties ensuring accuracy  * Worked with community Managers and vendors to resolve issues through phone and email. Systems Administrator SaabTraining USA - Orlando, FL April 2008 to July 2011 * Provided technical assistance and support for incoming inquiries and issues related to   computer systems, software, and hardware. Resolved user inquiries either in person or over  the phone.  * Strong troubleshooting and diagnostic skills with applications, servers, desktops and   laptops.  * Use the Call Tracking System to document and manage problems and work requests and   their respective resolutions.  * Active Directory knowledge and understanding (Windows Server 2003/2008) (create new   users, create OUs, add and remove accesses)  * Extensive knowledge and understanding of how permissions work on folders and   subfolders (create folders, create permission groups, add users to those groups,   give/remove permissions).  * Built, configured, and delivered computers using the standard "Ghost image" process.  * Created and maintained the computer systems inventory in Excel 2010 used by the IT   department.  * Designed and built a Maintenance Trouble Report (MTR) database application in Access   2010 to capture, track and resolve issues reported by customers.  * Designed, constructed and implemented a Customer Relationship Management application   (CRM) in Access 2010 for the Sales department to keep track of new leads and established  contracts with customers.   * Maintained SharePoint Intranet.  * Assisted with developing and implementing a Customer Support Web Portal for customers   to create MTRS.  * Enforced the policies, processes, and procedures issued by Corporate IT involving   computer equipment, cellular devices, handling of data, and access to the network. Systems Administrator Chicago Title Insurance Company - Casselberry, FL January 2001 to August 2007 Responsible for over 120 workstations, 5 servers, and over 20 network printers in 6 offices across North/Central Florida.  * Provided troubleshooting and maintenance of all computers, laptops, servers, printers, digital senders.  * Identified, researched and resolved technical problems.  * Created, removed network accounts, changed network rights and group management using Active Directory.  * Installed new software releases, service pack for OS and IT security patches.  * Installed and configured servers, workstations, laptops, network printers.  * Created ghost images for workstations and laptops.  * Performed system backups and recovery.  * Responsible for ordering and purchasing equipment.  * Maintained software and hardware inventories, version tracking and expirations of licenses.  * Assist in relocation of offices, contact IT vendors and coordinate office move. Education Associate of Arts in Accounting Seminole State College - Sanford, FL May 2013 Associate of Science in E-Business Technology Seminole State College - Sanford, FL December 2008 Skills Accounts Receivable, Receivables, Accounts Payable, AR Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/sylvie25