Senior Consultant Senior Consultant Senior Consultant - Infor EAM Hightstown, NJ Seeking a position as Consultant or a related client support area to utilize my technical and customer service skills, to contribute to the growth and development of your company. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Consultant EAM Solutions 2019 to Present • Responsibilities included development and execution of a training plan, and end-user support following go live.  • I served as the business support analyst and trainer,  • I was responsible for final development of the vertical asset structure and general parts inventory process training. Business Systems Analyst Pride Industries - Fort Dix, NJ 2010 to 2019 • Deploying Infor EAM to additional locations and delivering end-user training at these facilities.  • Provided overall end-user support for most aspects of the application.  • Provide Desktop, Network, and application support for Fort Dix NJ.  • Major player in the startup of EAM in Ft Dix NJ, and Ft Polk La  • Designed a QC program that is incorporated in EAM QC  • Last Major Software Upgrade Project was move from 10. 5 to 11.0 Fleet Maintenance Systems Supervisor Bradco Supply Corp - Rahway, NJ March 2005 to May 2009 • Supervise team of helpdesk specialists, and invoice clerks to manage company wide maintenance system program.  • Investigation of software products for continued company efficiency and process evolution.  • Program manage the upgrade of Software products:  • Last Major Software Upgrade Project: Migrated to Infor Enterprise Asset Management from DataStream 7i for company wide maintenance and truck distribution. Upgrade program strategies included: Project Plan, Problem Resolution, Training program, Plan of Record documentation, and Reporting tools. Fleet Maintenance Systems Administrator Bradco Supply Corp - Avenel, NJ March 2004 to March 2005 • Team member to setup and deploy DataStream 7i to 170 Bradco locations and 50 outside vendors.  • Designed training program for company wide truck distribution software by creatively using a quick reference guide and web-based training.  • Managed most upgrades remotely, via training program mentioned. Also traveled to 6 sites that required on-site support. System Administrator Chubb Group of Insurance - Township of Warren, NJ July 1996 to May 2003 • Team member providing a stable environment in the Model Branch to support application testing and integration.  • Collaborate with application team in the Model Branch environment to support the Change Management Process.  • Team member installing application software and distribution changes throughout the Chubb enterprise, via Tivoli framework.  • Team member supporting 120 desktop users and 60 workstations, 12 servers, and 15 Laptops.  • Rigorous testing of all server and workstation application updates before being sent to the branches.  • Rebuild and upgrade workstations as required.  • 2nd level Help Desk support on all changes that were released to the branches through the Change Management Process. Quality / Assurance Tester Chubb Group of Insurance - Township of Warren, NJ October 1995 to July 1996 • Test Chubb in house programs in multiple operating systems.  • Work with users to create integration test scripts.  • Identification and reporting of software problems to development group. Education Brookdale Community College - Lincroft, NJ November 2009 Diploma in Technical Support The Chubb Institute - Parsippany, NJ October 1995