Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer Miami, FL Systems ~ Networking ~ Engineering ~ Analysis ~ Consulting    Dedicated, forward-thinking Information Technology professional with proven expertise in IT, Multitasking, Help Desk, and System Administration. Accomplished IT Specialist combining broad-based technology experience; looking to leverage expertise and to deliver value-added solutions to elevate clients' operational performance.  SECURITY CLEARANCE:    TOP SECRET (SCI), October 2010 (Not Active)  SECRET Government Clearance Work Experience Systems Engineer Florida Service Computers May 2019 to June 2019 • Assisted users installing software & troubleshooting various issues using GoToAssist.  • Worked at various client locations.  • Installed outdoor Aruba APs.  • Replaced/upgraded Cisco switches to POE.  • Monitored and went to client site to troubleshoot Tocuhscreen Directories if they were down at Bayside Marketplace.  • Installed 10 wifi printers and made sure more than 15 tablets can wirelessly print to each printer.  • Setup accounts in multiple clients AD structures. Enterprise Technical Support Analyst Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings LTD January 2014 to June 2018 • Assisted users installing software & troubleshooting various issues using GoToAssist, Tight VNC, Team Viewer, Remote Desktop, or FaceTime on IPhone if remote connection would not work.  • Used Remedy, Jira, Heat. ITSM software, and general Trouble ticket processes for software and\or hardware requests and Incidents.  • Created new Windows user accounts and disabled terminated Windows user accounts in Active Directory.  • Worked with the Network Team at Meyer Wheft in Papenburg, Germany. Setting up all of the switches onboard the Norwegian Escape.  • Image and Setup/Deployment of over 1000 Lenovo/HP/Dell machines to new team members or existing ones.  • Assistance in Migrating Avaya Phone systems to Cisco.  • Assistance in Migrating Cisco Phone systems back to Avaya in the Miami, Sunrise, and Mesa, AZ offices.  • Specialized in Help Desk phone support for the entire Norwegian Enterprise. Locations include but not limited to: Miami/Sunrise/Mesa AZ/Omaha NB/Germany/China/Brazil. Network Administrator TRAX USA - Coconut Grove, FL February 2013 to May 2013 • Documents & updates installation, configuration, deployment & maintenance procedures.  • Troubleshoots and repairs computer hardware, software, network connectivity, and any other problems that occur. Installs of new computers/software.  • Other special projects as assigned by Management to improve administration of the IT infrastructure. Systems Administrator Lockheed Martin - Miami, FL December 2010 to February 2013 • Monitor the status of data (via SolarWinds, WhatsUp, and more.networking tools) and voice networks to detect and identify network outages and disruptions of service for the entire US SOUTHERN COMMAND AOR (Area of Responsibility).  • Analyze network characteristics (traffic, connect time, transmission speeds, packet sizes, and throughput, etc.) and recommend procurement, removals, and modifications to network components.  • Coordinate installations, transitions, and cutovers of network components and capabilities.  • Function as the primary focal point for coordination of all network troubleshooting and restore activities. Lockheed Martin - Vandenberg AFB, CA April 2010 to December 2010 Systems/Network Administrator BAE Systems Information Technology - Vandenberg AFB, CA March 2008 to April 2010 • Provided technical support and systems/network administration expertise as a Systems Administrator to the 14th Air Force, Joint Functional Component Command (JFCC) staff and Joint Space Operations Center (JSpOC), formally Aerospace Operations Center (AOC), on the secure Windows LAN & WAN.  • Performed network and systems administration on SIPRNET and JWICS networks.  • Administered the following systems and applications: Global Command and Control Systems (GCCS), JDISS, SCOPES, IWS, mIRC, GALE-Lite, Integrated Warning Capability (IWC), Defense Messaging Service (DMS), Collection Management Workstation (CMWS), Microsoft IIS server, Microsoft Exchange server.  • Maintained three Intra-net networks supporting four different operating systems, 30 plus servers, 500 plus workstations and fourteen Cisco hubs.  • Provided network/ systems administrator support to the 14th Air Force, JFCC staff and JSpOC as the Communications Focal Point on a 24/7 operations.  • Provided customer support to site operations on the NIPRNET, SIPRNET, and JWICS networks.  • Helped customers resolve problems that may occur on over 1000+ different computer systems, applications, phone lines and hardware, via phone calls, emails or hands-on Information Systems Technician/Radio Man United States Navy - USS PELELIU LHA-5 - San Diego, CA June 2004 to March 2008 • Responsible for the operation, sustainability, programming, and configuration of many pieces of electronics, hardware and software on a classified government Local Area Network (LAN).  • Worked with various programs including Active Directory, What's up Gold, DMDS, and MIRC. Some responsibilities included creating, modifying, deleting SCI user accounts and resetting user passwords. I upgraded our TS/SCI LAN from Windows NT to Windows 2000.  • Ensured complete accountability of over 100 individual crypto-logic controlled items including KWR-46s, KG-194s, KOI-18s, KYK-13s, KYV-5s and KG-84s.  • Conducted over 100 hours of operating, troubleshooting, and scheduling video Teleconferencing (VTC). Education Information Systems Technician and Radio Communications "A" School A.S. in Information Technology ITT Technical Institute - Miami, FL