Infrastructure & Cloud Architect / Engineer Infrastructure &amp; Cloud Architect / Engineer Infrastructure & Cloud Architect / Engineer - PwC US LLC Novi, MI Work Experience Infrastructure & Cloud Architect / Engineer PwC US LLC March 2018 to Present Responsibilities / Deliverables:  • Architected/Designed PwC CoE AWS Cloud infrastructure standard and solutions include VPC, VPN, LB, EC2, SG, RDS, S3, DR, AD/DNS, etc. to meet the HIPAA/HiTrust complains.  • Supported/maintained Infrastructure and application on PwC (US) CoE Compute datacenter servers across multiple platforms including both on-premise and public cloud, Infrastructure architect design, application  migration, DR design/planning.  • Maintained PwC US CoE datacenter daily operation to ensure the efficient operation solutions.  • Supported and administered Amazon Web Services cloud platforms that hosting instances including  application cloud migrations. Led in root cause analysis and timely resolution of problems.  • Supported the application team's migration from legacy data centers to AWS Cloud environment by supporting the CI/CD and build tools creating AWS EC2 instances, ELBs, security groups, S3 storage,  setting up S3 snapshots/backups and auto scaling.  • Monitored and optimized operation environment for both On-Premises and AWS cloud using tools Uila and AWS Cloudwatch for server and network performance, and resource capacity status and idle/unused cloud  resources such as EC2 instances, EBS volumes, ELBs, S3 snapshots to eliminate unused resources and save cost. Staff Infrastructure Architect General Electric Company February 2012 to March 2018 Responsibilities / Deliverables:  • Maintained/Supported GE Corporate IT datacenter daily operation to ensure the efficient operation  solutions.  • Architected/Developed server standard solutions to create a more robust, stable server/application  environment.  • Managed design and build projects and worked with multiple function teams to deliver the solutions.  • Supported and administered Amazon Web Services cloud platforms including application cloud migrations, assisting in root cause analysis and timely resolution of problems.  • Supported application migrations to Cloud, automation and management tools on process simplification  and standardization.  • Supported application migration from legacy data centers to AWS Cloud environment by creating AWS  EC2 instances, ELBs, security groups, S3 storage, setting up backups and auto scaling, and monitoring and optimizing the systems and network performance and resource capacity status. Senior Systems Administrator Hewlett-Packard Company August 2001 to February 2012 Responsibilities / Deliverables:  • Supported and Maintained Corporate IT headquater datacenter servers for both Ford Mortor Company and General Motor Company.  • Built, configured and supported High Availability server cluster and execute failover testing.  • Supported HPC (High Performance Computing) cluster, databases and applications.  • Maintained DNS, NIS, NFS, LDAP solutions for server configurations.  • Designed and implemented various UNIX shell utilities to aid in system and network administration, and write advance shell scripts to automate various daily tasks.  • Configured and tuned system CPU, memory and disk drivers to provide better performance and additional  disk space.  • Managed Groups/Users accounts and Systems/Servers securities. Systems Administrator AjiLon Services, Inc / American Axle & Manufacturing, Inc April 1997 to August 2001 Responsibilities / Deliverables:  • Installed and configured server system hardware and software, maintained system security, server backup  (LAGATO), performance tuning, and trouble shooting.  • Configured DNS, NIS, NFS for server builds.  • Supported UNIX server and corporate applications include ERP, QAD, PeopleSoft, and EDI.  • Monitored enterprise network including setup and configuration of HP ITO, OpenView Network Node.  • Deployed various UNIX shell utilities to aid in system and network administration and wrote advance shell  scripts to automate various daily tasks and synchronize configuration files.  • Support and maintain American Axle manufacture company's data center servers include daily  administration and long-term project management of HP UNIX servers and EMC storage for engineering, finance, marketing and human resource database systems and applications for over 5,000 users. Education Master's Skills Linux, HTML, SQL