Systems Manager <span class="hl">Systems</span> Manager Systems Manager Brooklyn, NY Versatile and highly qualified Systems Administrator/Manager with 12+ years of experience managing daily operations of infrastructure, technical teams, and large database environments for healthcare operations and clinical departments. Strong ability to troubleshoot complex system issues and identify solutions to streamline processes. Familiar with many database systems, servers, monitoring tools, and other emerging technologies. Currently seeking a position as Platform Integration Manager by demonstrating the following key strengths and areas of expertise:    ? Systems Administration  ? Project Management  ? Server Setup/Maintenance  ? Installations/Conversions  ? Data Warehouse Development    ? Database Management  ? Architecture/Infrastructure Management  ? Quality Enhancement  ? Technical Support Management  ? Team Building/Leadership    ? Data Warehousing/Analytics  ? Continuous Improvement  ? Issue Tracking/Resolution  ? System Implementation  ? Staff Training/Supervision  ? Process Automation Work Experience Systems Manager Elderplan Health Economics & Informatics - Brooklyn, NY September 2014 to March 2019 Responsible for evaluating requests for system modifications, defining user requirements, estimating impact on current operations, and recommending plan of action for development and installation.  ? Develop and manage SQL scripts, test data, business requirements, and server resources to optimize system performance.  ? Designed, documented and maintained clinical data warehouse/data store hybrid to capture clinical operational data with nightly refresh automation. Application Architect Brooklyn, NY September 2013 to September 2014 Provided oversight and guidance on all tasks and projects relating to architecting application solutions while developing and implementing all changes or additions to the organization's application portfolio.  ? Developed and managed the technical interfaces between the organizations internal systems and/or externally hosted systems.  ? Collaborated with internal clients to identify needs and evaluate alternative business solutions and strategies.  ? Communicated complex system requirements to business units for sign off and delivery of solution specifications to technical teams. Senior Systems Administrator Brooklyn, NY March 2011 to September 2013 Successfully developed a reporting infrastructure for the Clinical Operations Department.  ? Created a software solution permitting users to capture Gaps in Care for Quality control and improved star ratings for the Quality Management Department.  ? Conducted technical research and development to enable continuing innovation within the Clinical Operations Department's infrastructure.    ? Investigated and analyzed feasibility of system requirements and develops system specifications.  ? Supervised staff including hiring, training, evaluating and disciplining. Guided and provided work direction for technical staff, contract staff and/or student employees.  ? Identified methods/solutions and provided project leadership and management to provide a high level of service to business units. System Administrator New York, NY October 2007 to March 2011 Successfully launched the Clinical Case Management System C.C.M.S. with minimal resources and on target.  ? Executed and planned configuration, maintenance and system support for all UM/QM database activity.  ? Develop, maintain and revise database requirements for effective UM/QM reporting and oversight requirements.  ? Provided technical support, ongoing maintenance and enhancement of all applicable software programs for the Medical Management/Quality Management Department.  ? Assisted with data and technical support for all required reporting activities for UM and/or QM Departments. Education Business Administration Kaplan University Skills TIME MANAGEMENT, PROBLEM SOLVING, RECONCILIATION, DATABASE, DATABASE SYSTEMS, MICROSOFT ACCESS, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, SQL, SQL SERVER REPORTING SERVICES, SSRS, SQL SERVER INTEGRATION SERVICES, VISUAL STUDIO, VB.NET, VISIO, TECHNICAL LEADERSHIP, TECHNICAL SUPPORT, DATA QUALITY, MCKESSON, CRYSTAL REPORTS