DevOps Contractor DevOps Contractor DevOps Engineer Lake Stevens, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience DevOps Contractor Datacenter Systems - Woodinville, WA October 2016 to Present Manages all aspects of contract negotiations, SOWs, and applies devops pricinples to project completion.    Recent projects:  Xen to AWS migration from Sydney, Australia to us-west-2 AWS region; using terraform.    Infrastructure recreation with automation in AWS for high volume messaging company. DevOps Engineer G2 Web Services - Bellevue, WA April 2014 to October 2016 Embedded in a development team using the Agile/Scrum methodologies and responsible for all aspects of developer support and product deployment. In addition, handling of network related maintenance, including F5 load balancers and Juniper networking gear. Writing of chef automation to support the operations side of the server infrastructure and implementing policies surrounding access to specific environments ( dev, qa, stage, prod ). Instrumental in stabilizing the production load balancers when there were pre-existing issues causing service outages and instrumental in stabilizing G2’s crawler infrastructure. Assisted the Data Science department extensively in writing deployment automation for models and supporting infrastructure. Updating of older custom production backend services when the need arises. Linux Administrator HasOffer, Inc - Seattle, WA December 2012 to July 2013 Administration of the development, staging, and production stacks, including VMWare ESXi, vSphere,  AWS; automated with Puppet. Maintain repositories for Puppet related configuration files. Develop scripts  to automate provisioning of Amazon DynamoDB resources, Github permissions, custom Nagios  notifications. Rollout additional platform resources in AWS VPCs, and rollout entire availability zones. Audit  and upgrade the existing corporate network. Assist new and existing employees with technical issues Systems Engineer Datacenter Systems, LLC - Shoreline, WA January 2008 to November 2012 Responsible for initial development and deployment of www.cloud2cloud9.com a  multi-tenant virtualization platform built on Xen. The process of developing the system involved many technologies including but not limited to: Cisco routers and switches, rackable servers, Python,   C, PostgreSQL, MySQL, DHCP, NTP, HTML, Javascript, ActionScript, XML, LVM, RFB, VNC, SMTP, RAID, and iSCSI Systems Engineer WorldLink Inc. - Shoreline, WA March 2006 to November 2010 Systems engineering (linux/unix) and maintenance of infrastructure servers. Network engineering and maintenance of the network infrastructure. Software engineering of company wide (tools) and server automation. Racking servers in cabinets and cabling/labeling of datacenter equipment. Handling Tier II + support ticket resolution. Instrumental in product conception, engineering and developing WorldLink’s bonded DSL product line which is still sold to this day. Education Some College in CS Spokane Falls Community College - Spokane, WA January 2000 to February 2001 HS in General Shorecrest High School - Shoreline, WA September 1994 to June 1998 Skills Python (10+ years), Java (5 years), Routers (10+ years), Switches (10+ years), Linux (10+ years), PostgresSQL (10+ years), MySQL (10+ years), AWS (8 years), Vmware (8 years), Hadoop (4 years), Docker (5 years), Jenkins (2 years), Terraform (2 years), Android Development (2 years), GCP (1 year), BASH (10+ years) Links https://bitbucket.org/danhickox/nmapy Awards Above and Beyond 2016-08 In recognition of outstanding performance and contribution to the success of G2 Web Services Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified January 2001 to Present CCNA August 2011 OCJPA 7 (Oracle Certifiied Java Programmer) February 2014 to Present