Change Management Specialist Change Management Specialist Change Management Specialist - ERZA Technologies College Park, MD Highly dependable IT professional with over 9 years of experience working with Windows systems, providing QA expertise and working in security environments. An ideal position would be one that expands my software development, and networking knowledge and abilities. Work Experience Change Management Specialist ERZA Technologies 2019 to Present • Work with cross-functional teams with diverse technical skill sets to support successful configuration, change, and release management.  • Track all requests for change (RFCs) throughout the change and release process along with impacted configuration items using the designated tools.  • Manage all change records with the Change Management Remedy queue; assess RFCs by reviewing the change from customer, engineer, and vendor perspectives  • Verify that changes are planned, engineered, tested and approved prior to their implementation in any system or infrastructure component.  • Develop, maintain, and enhance policies, procedures, and other relevant documentation for the change management process; collaborate with government leads to enforce compliance and foster continuous improvement.  • Facilitate Change Advisory Board (CAB) and Emergency Change Advisory Board (ECAB) reviews, approval voting, and meetings (virtual and in-person); obtain the appropriate signatures or e-mail approvals on all required decisions and documentation; publish agendas, meeting minutes, and decision memos; coordinate and communicate resolution of change management issues.  • Manage change release schedule  • Facilitate the post-implementation review process; collect lessons learned and follow-through on continuous improvement actions.  • Gather performance measures and metrics; present to decision makers and stakeholders for awareness and continuous improvement participation and decisions.  • Coordinate stakeholder communication for effective management and control of changes.  • Prepare briefings and reports as required. Systems Administrator II BAE Systems 2016 to 2019 • Plans, designs, develops new system architecture. Maintains existing Deltek applications such as Time and Expense, Costpoint, and GovWin.  • Duties may include setting up administrator and service accounts, maintaining system documentation, tuning system performance, and installing software on servers and workstations.  • Conducts capacity and performance analysis. Provides system configuration change and upgrade recommendations.  • Uses automated tools and scripts to improve efficiency and accuracy.  • Work with internal and external organizations to support various customer user level requirements, including resolving elevated end user support requests, and researching and deploying advanced technologies.  • Business process analysis and system requirements development.  • Implement approved system security policies to include the configuration of user access and permission across a variety of systems.  • Monitors application status; support application event triage, monitoring, tracking, and correlation and event characterization and escalation, work with vendors as needed for event resolution. Follows up with customer to ensure issue has been resolved.  • Provides technical assistance, training and system documentation for users to promote efficient operation of applications.  • Perform other duties as assigned. Service Manager\Windows Systems Administrator BAE Systems 2015 to 2016 • Managing teams of both onsite and offsite daily. Prioritizing, tasking and overseeing timely of quality technical support service to internal clients.  • Determining personnel requirements, setting schedules ensuring that those under my direction have adequate resources to complete their jobs.  • Perform shutdowns, reboots and system backups of servers required for system maintenance and emergency response actions  • Maintain SOP's  • Resolve issues surrounding installation, usage, and training on software and/or hardware products  • Create, maintain, delete, and move access accounts onto the company network using Active Directory.  • Provide training and support to less experienced administrators and help desk technicians  • Handle escalated Tier 2 tickets in Remedy  • Provided support for all versions of MS Outlook and Lync  • Work with a team to migrate severs from P2V  • Manage customers Blackberry, iOS, Windows Mobile/Phone, and Android Devices.  • Assist end users via telephone, e-mail, with a wide range of questions, problems and requests with their iOS and Android connectivity needs  • Research and document mobile app functions, platform information, and mobile device management instructions.  • Plan, install, configure, and maintain Mobile Device Management System for customers SCI Consulting 2014 to 2015 • Respond to inquiries and requests for assistance with the U.S. Coast Guard's Core Accounting System (CAS), which includes the Financial Procurement Desktop (FPD) application used throughout the Coast Guard to create and maintain purchase orders.  • Support also includes, but is not limited to: enforcing DHS (Department of Homeland Security) systems access policies, creating end user accounts, managing user level access, creating work orders and tracking all correspondence between the end-user and technician, assisting end users with account reconciliation and providing data analysis for application and financial issues occurring between systems integrated with FPD.  • Provide technical support to both civilian and military personnel of the U.S. Coast Guard's Core Accounting System.  • Assist users in account reconciliation and correcting shipping, transfer and disbursement errors within the Financial Procurement Desktop (FPD) application.  • Identify, prioritize, and resolve reported technical problems via telephone.  • Create and resolve cases using the CG FixIT Remedy ticketing system.  • Create new user accounts and update existing accounts in UMS (User Management System). Service Desk Analyst BAE Systems 2008 to 2014 • Created, updated, and maintained user's profile, and network access accounts, within various systems such as Active Directory, Novell (Identity Vault), PeopleSoft, Vasco, Deltek  • Modify user groups and shared access  • Troubleshoot Juniper issues for remote access users.  • Conducted troubleshooting and repairs on Customer PC's and IT systems over the phone or via Dameware Remote Access.  • Handled the tasks of tracking, documenting and monitoring minor and major problems within our ticketing system  • Used Citrix Web based and application interface in order to help assist customers with their Citrix applications.  • Contact/Communicated with our Network team in order to help fix and resolve network issues when a Problem incident occurred.  • Installed software through HP Client Self Service Automation  • Process Hardware/Software request through Buysite ordering system.  • Reimaged PCs making sure they had the current BIOS, OS, software, applications, security and windows updates.  • Worked tickets that are assigned to our Tier I group in our ticket system.  • Monitored and assisted customers through our Live Chat online systems    EDUCATIION, TRAINING, & CERTIFICATIONS Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Norfolk State University - Norfolk, VA 2006 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, EXCHANGE, NETCOOL, REMEDY, JUNIPER, VMWARE, NETBACKUP, VERITAS, SHAREPOINT, DATABASE, MS ACCESS, VISUAL STUDIO, MS PROJECT, VISIO, SHARK, EXCEL, MS EXCEL, MICROSOFT EXCHANGE, MS POWERPOINT, POWERPOINT, Itil, Change Management Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ August 2019 to August 2022