System Analyst II <span class="hl">System</span> Analyst II System Analyst II San Diego, CA Work Experience System Analyst II LOWES DISTRIBUTION CENTER - Perris, CA November 2002 to August 2018 • Provide support for UNIX/Linux/NT/XP/Windows 7, Windows 10, Server 2008.  • Maintain and configure network servers, SQL (DMS), switches, routers, firewalls and other network  equipment.  • Provide first level support for all servers and escalate to 2nd level support.  • Responsible for daily operation of data center infrastructure.  • Provide customer support and end-user support in Window environment.  • Provide first level sorter support in the warehouse.  • Provide support OCE printers (label printers), Lexmark printers.  • Provide support for carousel  I provide support in the internal and external warehouse. In our team, we have total of 4 Systems Analysts. Since Lowes opens 24 hours, we have 2 Analysts support Monday to Thursday and myself support Friday to Sunday.  My job is to manage the inside/outside warehouse IT. I support Desktops, laptop, printers, sorters from the warehouse that sort boxes to doors as well as Carousel stations that allow users to pick and put boxes into the container.  I re-imaged desktops and laptops and order any hardware to support the end users.  I provide support or repair OCE labels printer and Lexmark printers.  I support end user email, windows 7, Windows 10, backup user profile and support servers 2008.  Manage AD users account and Kiosk machines.  I troubleshoot Cisco router and create remedy tickets to forward to level 1 support if needed.  I manage warehouse AP that provides LRT scanners and Zebra scanner through the warehouse.  I manage and support AIX UNIX server. We make sure the partition is not running out of space and files are FTPed from AIX to Windows Server.  I manage and write UNIX scripts to provide any necessary fail-over on the system.  We are 2nd level support and we have to drive to offsite warehouse to provide full 1st level support.  We accomplished major upgrade on Windows 7 to windows 10 users. Upgrade AIX OS, Cisco routers and all the AP wireless through the warehouse. Systems Administrator CSC - San Diego, CA March 2002 to November 2002 • Served as Desktop Support/ Systems Administrator for NT/W2K workstations, servers,  • Provided LAN/WAN support, maintained and configured servers, routers.  • Provided customer service for over 400 clients.  • Supported, maintained and installed San Diego City mainframe and DLTS. Systems Administrator MAGIS NETWORKS INC October 2000 to October 2001 • Provided support for UNIX/NT servers, workstations.  • Performed LAN/WAN troubleshooting, networking, maintenance router, firewall, Network Appliance, SAN, VPN, and Exchange server.  • Performed daily/weekend backup using Veritas Netbackup.  • Supported, maintained and installed any necessary software on SUN Sparc (2.8)/Redhat servers  or workstations. Created samba(2.4) for UNIX, installed Veritas, Cadence, NIS, NFS, printers, EMACS/XEMACS, C/C++ Compiler, Netscape, etc.  Scripting C, korn Shell and writing C/C++ for engineer department.  • Supported over 200 workstations for engineers.  • Resolved any problem related to desktop machines, software and hardware installation. NT/UNIX Systems Administrator ANACOMP INC - San Diego, CA August 1999 to October 2000 • Supported NT/Novell servers, workstations, UNIX servers (SUN Solaris 2.7)  • Performed LAN/WAN troubleshooting, networking, maintenance and support for 500+ clients. NT/UNIX Systems Administrator MOLECULAR SIMULATIONS INC (MSI) - San Diego, CA February 1998 to August 1999 • Provided support for NT/UNIX servers (SUN Solaris 2.6, SGI, Auspex and IBM).  • Performed hardware and software troubleshooting.  • Configured and maintained TCP/IP network, upgrading and/or installation.  • Configured and supported for 400+ clients.  • Performed data backups for all machines on LAN. Computer Lab Assistant SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY - San Diego, CA February 1998 to August 1999 • Performed Novell 4.x and Windows NT/95/98 software installation and configuration.  • Provided customer support and end-user support using Windows applications.  • Provided printer support, created web sites and email accounts. Programmer/Network Engineer SPAWAR - San Diego, CA September 1997 to February 1998 • Developed software to capture data from satellites and converted to required format. (Security Clearance).  • Worked with other Network Engineer in network troubleshooting and configured network servers.  • Responsible for software installation/configuration using Novell 3.12/4.11.  • Built Novell and Windows NT servers, back-up file servers, client workstations, and provided support to users. Computer Technician SAN DIEGO COMPUTER CENTER - San Diego, CA June 1992 to February 1998 • Built and repaired computer hardware systems to the board level.  • Performed network management, software installation, peer-to-peer/networking using Windows NT/95, and built Novell and Windows NT servers. Computer Technician MICRO CITY - San Diego, CA September 1995 to August 1997 • Built and repaired computer hardware systems to the board level.  • Performed network management, software installation, peer-to-peer/networking using Windows NT/95, and built Novell and Windows NT servers. Education BS in Computer Science San Diego State University - San Diego, CA June 2000 Skills Desktop Support, Help Desk