Software Test Engineer Software Test Engineer Software Test Engineer - Ubiq Security, Inc. San Diego, CA Work Experience Software Test Engineer Ubiq Security, Inc. - San Diego, CA April 2019 to Present ? Extensive testing of AWS integrations, REST API deployments, and command line interface solutions.  ? Management of all aspects of software quality assurance, including configuration management, automated builds, testing and product release processes.  ? Responsible for providing quality user documentation and SDK code examples in Python, C++, and Java   ? Oversight of all error reports, bug tracking, and version control. Information Systems Administrator Rancho Private Wealth - Rancho Santa Fe, CA 2018 to Present ? Oversight and management of all devices, applications, and storage solutions to ensure SEC compliance   ? Installing and configuring all infrastructure to properly handle sensitive employee and client data   ? Designing and implementing scalable, robust, secure applications to handle growing customer base Lead Help Desk Certified Technician Advanced Wealth Planning - University City, CA 2017 to 2018 ? Provide full scale operations support to office for technology and facilities   ? Installation, configuration, and troubleshooting of all network devices and related software   ? Deploy and manage both onsite and cloud storage solution for customer and employee data Lead Technician Staples - Sorrento, CA May 2016 to July 2017 ? Customer Technology Consultant primarily for laptops, networking equipment and printers   ? Performed technical tasks such as OS installation, data recovery, and virus removal   ? Assisted extensively with inventory management related duties Computer Science Tutor & Lab Technician Mira Costa Community College - San Diego, CA 2014 to 2016 • Tutored MCCC students in Java, C, C++, Microsoft Office, and Adobe Illustrator ? Provided Research Support and Consultation ? Managed On-going access and Activities within MCCC Computer Lab Intern Health Fusion - Solana Beach, CA 2013 to 2013 Performed Python unit testing for Cloud-based Medical Records Application ? Assisted executives, customer support and Sales staff with internal technical support ? Provided support to engineering team with backend server maintenance and performance issues Education B.A. in Computer Science Cal State San Marcos March 2019 Skills System Administrator, Vmware, Linux, Active Directory, System Admin, Linux Administrator