Senior Function Specialist Senior Function Specialist Virginia Beach, VA employment that will capitalize on my success and experience as a contractor and former service member. Also looking to expand on my exceptional people and leadership skills. Work Experience Senior Function Specialist BAHR Associates, Inc July 2012 to May 2019 Technical Skills: • Provides customer support, service, and technical support through analysis and problem solving • Manage, maintain and sustain an NSA affiliated network in support of Naval intelligence missions.  • Document network events and proactively seek solutions to outages, etc.  • Troubleshoot distant end issues 24/7.  (757) 277-6454  Continued Network Specialist SAIC Naval and Maritime Business Unit 2012 to 2014 Technical Skills: • Provides on-site engineer support for the US Navy SCI Networks Shore Network Operations center, UARNOC. Provides distance support to Pacific Regional Network Operations Center.  • Provided troubleshooting, maintenance and upkeep, and general oversight of SCI Networks.  • Provides on-the-job-training to customers in the form of classroom and Job Qualification Requirements study.  • Maintain configuration management for NOC suites and security devices.  • Perform daily physical checks of equipment, weekly cleaning of equipment, and monthly maintenance on all servers • Perform installation, configuration, and certification of SCI Networks for afloat customers in Norfolk, VA and abroad.  • Performs vulnerability assessments on behalf of Naval Information Assurance forces.  • Provided help desk support to fleet customers.  • Provided 24/7 on call support to the SCI NOCs. Lead Systems/Network Administrator U.S. Navy, Unified Atlantic Regional Network Operation Center 2004 to 2008 System Administrator tasks: • Maintains the operation of the SCI-Networks system suite, located at the Fleet SCI NOC in Norfolk, VA. Services supported include Email Messaging, Real-Time Chat, JWICS Web Browsing access, and technical support for U.S. Navy/Coast Guard customers worldwide.  • Manages and configures perimeter firewalls, virus scanning technology, and remote access virtual private networks (VPN).  • 24/7 on call support to the Fleet SCI NOC. Network Communications Supervisor and Systems Administrator U.S. Navy. USS Vicksburg 2001 to 2004 CG-69) • Provides security oversight for the systems, including virus scans, user account scrubs, and remote account support.  • Provide training to 15 watch operators and supervisors, in the form of classroom and JQR (Job Qualification Requirements) study.  • Provides operational support for shipboard SCI-Networks onboard, in support of new and existing ship installs.  • Coordinates troubleshooting with various platforms within the strike group.  • Resolves complex network problems with a wide range of devices including physical media, TACLANEs, routers, bridges, gateways and switches.  • Configured and monitored the operations of various routing protocols, such as EIGRP, BGP, and OSPF in support of local and remote nodes. Education San Angelo Central High School - San Angelo, TX Skills Alcatel (Less than 1 year), BGP (3 years), Catalyst (Less than 1 year), Cisco (Less than 1 year), Cisco ASA (Less than 1 year), Cisco PIX (Less than 1 year), EIGRP (3 years), encryption (Less than 1 year), Ethernet (Less than 1 year), Exchange (Less than 1 year), firewalls (5 years), G2 (Less than 1 year), IOS (Less than 1 year), Linux (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Exchange (Less than 1 year), MICROSOFT OFFICE (Less than 1 year), MS Office (Less than 1 year), MS Office 2003 (Less than 1 year), Office 2003 (Less than 1 year), OSPF (3 years) Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: Petty Officer First Class