Senior Systems Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Systems Administrator Grants Pass, OR Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator Procare Software - Medford, OR March 2017 to July 2019 Promoted to enable this leading provider of childcare management solution to achieve rapid business growth; Continued building fully redundant, secure, and scalable environments for: development; testing; Production SaaS with 11,000 customers; PCI Level 1 credit card platform; and internal corporate environments with 200+ users. Collaborate with customers, team, partners, and vendors to analyze needs, design solutions, and solve complex issues. Administer 300+ 2016 Hyper-V VMs through 38 physical hosts, Cisco ASA clusters with FMC, and SAN infrastructure across 4 data centers. Train, mentor, and provide escalated support to all team members. Provide Tier III support for 35,000 growing to 55,000 deployed systems. Supported SaaS growth from 5,700 to 11,000 hosted customer databases. IT Team grew from four to fourteen during this time.    Selected Achievements & Solutions:    ·        Planned, designed, documented, and implemented redundant network, server, and storage infrastructures that reduced single point of failures, improved business continuity, and enabled business growth to triple. Replaced Juniper firewalls with high-availability Cisco ASA 5525-X clusters with FMC across all environments.   ·        Created hardware design criteria requirements for all environments for redundancy including geographic location, rack size, cabling, power, storage, compute, network, and management. The implementation of these requirements directly prevented service outages during multiple incidents for both internal and external customers.  ·        Recommended and strengthened security posture and availability of PCI Level 1 environment. Included planning, designing, implementing, and optimizing of virtualization / HA / DR for PCI Level 1 environment.  ·        Owned IT responsibilities for product release integration and release deployment into Production of SaaS, Core Product, and Web Production systems since January 2018. Created deployment timelines and auditing mechanisms to ensure validity of all processes.  ·        Participated in the transition to CI/CD Pipeline deployments for 95+% of products. When I began this position all releases were deployed manually.  ·        Implemented Scaled-Out SQL Databases in SaaS environment. Migrated 9,900+ customer databases in one 2016 SQL instance into multiple redundant 2016 SQL instances; Designed split DNS using CNAME system and usages; Improved performance on existing hardware, increased service availability, reduced impact of single failures, and improved serviceability of SQL Engine and supporting VMs.  ·        Increased performance, redundancy and fault-tolerance of the SaaS environment. Collaborated in planning, designing, implementing, and optimizing and migration to compostable converged private cloud for 2016 Hyper-V; Improved service availability by implemented TLS-to-SQL replacement of legacy client-to-site VPN sessions for SaaS external customers. Collaborated on design, build, test, and implementation of DR systems integrated into existing SaaS HA infrastructure.  ·        Implemented Corporate virtualization initiative going from 50% to 95+% virtual servers. Collaborated on design, build, test, and implementation of Development Hyper-V FCI environment for Dev, QA, Staging (ReleaseTest), DeployTest; Increased virtualization in all Corporate environments; Enabled business growth.  ·        Implemented Sentry One and Infosight monitoring tools that increased visibility into all environments. Systems Administrator Procare Software - Medford, OR December 2014 to March 2017 Promoted to Information Technology System Administrator. Duties included administering, optimizing, modernizing, and ensuring optimal uptime of SaaS, PCI Level 1, and corporate environments. Analyzed and resolved escalated issues and provided advanced support to high-profile clients. Provide Level III support to 25,000 growing for 35,000 deployed systems. Supported SaaS growth from 4700 to 5700 hosted customer databases during this time. IT team grew from two to four members during this time. After demonstrating a high level of mastery at the roles, responsibilities, duties, and tasks assigned to me as a Systems Administrator; I was promoted to Senior Systems Administrator after two years.    Selected Achievements & Solutions:    • Increased performance, redundancy and fault-tolerance of the SaaS and Corporate environment. Collaborated on design, build, test, and implementation of new DR systems integrated into existing SaaS and Corporate HA infrastructure via 2012R2 Hyper-V and SQL Server 2012R2 Failover Cluster Instances, SQL AlwaysOn Groups, various file and backup level replications  • Increased fault-tolerance of the Corporate environment. Collaborated on design, build, test, and implementation of DR systems  • Researched, evaluated, recommended, proposed, designed, implemented, and optimized PRTG Monitoring tool that increased visibility into all environments.  • Researched, evaluated, recommended, and proposed replacement storage array solution within a three week turn time to meet project timelines.  • Integrated, implemented and optimized replacement storage arrays into already planned SaaS environment hardware refresh within a two month turn time. Achieved original delivery target date of project. This was despite having to stop work for 3 months due to storage issues;   • Diagnose and remedy abject storage hardware failure to perform. A major storage array manufacturer refunded 100% of price on five arrays 1.5 years after purchase Technical Product Support Specialist Procare Software - Medford, OR December 2013 to December 2014 When I joined Procare Software it had about forty employees all in the same physical location. And I recognized the opportunity joining this leading provider of childcare management solutions could become as it grew. The Technical Support Team contained several members who had worked at Procare for over ten years each. This added to the appeal as I also strive to provide long term value for my employers and our customers. I was quickly recognized as being able to provide more value outside Technical Support and was promoted to Systems Administrator in the Information Technology Department at Procare Software one year after coming onboard.    Selected Achievements & Solutions:    • Personally recommended by Tech Support Manager and Assistant Manager for Promotion to System Administrator as soon as the company had that position available   • Elevated to membership in the Product Team and represented Tech Support Department to Product Development within three months of hire  • Provide Tier 1 and Tier 2 support for Client / Server software with specialties in infrastructure, networking, database, server, and accounting for 20,000 growing to 25,000 deployed systems. 3,700 SaaS customers grew to 4,700 hosted customer databases during this time. Information Technology System Technician Lifeline Computer Solutions, Inc. - Medford, OR February 2013 to November 2013 Lifeline Computer Solutions, Inc. is a Managed Service Provider with clients within industries including medical services, manufacturing, and heavy construction. I brought to them my broad technical experience and immediately helped reduce response times.     Selected Achievements & Solutions:    • Provide remote and onsite support for 700+ endpoints, dozens of networks, and hundreds of employees.  • Troubleshoot, identify, and repair issues with servers, networks, workstation, mobile devices, printers, and applications.  • Deploy and support network and workstation solutions fixed and mobile users client Line-Of-Business applications and various Windows OS versions.  • Ensure ongoing hardware and services availability including physical repair, component exchanges, and resolution of software or network service interruptions.  • Removal of viruses, trojans, rootkits and other malware manually and with automated tools.  • Utilized VMWare, Remote Desktop, Wyse thin clients, dd-wrt, pfsense, NAS, and Roaming Profiles. Information Services Manager Cascade Management - Grants Pass, OR November 2008 to October 2012 Cascade Management needed a Manager to be responsible for two hundred remote sites, two corporate offices, and 350+ employees throughout Oregon and Washington. As a real estate management company specializing in multi-family low income, senior, and disabled housing properties, Cascade relies upon technology to navigate a complex regulatory environment. I was a key team member enabling staff members with a wide variety of skills with technology to be successful. Additionally, I was responsible for deployment of and training for a new Line-Of-Business application throughout the organization. And my work with the custom integration of that LOB application into existing business processes was critical to the success of that project and enterprise wide rollout.    Selected Achievements & Solutions:    • Managed and supported all workstations, servers, networks, applications, printers, desk phones, and cell phones.  • Coordinated with vendors for delivery of all data and telephone services throughout the company.  • Centralized purchasing and accounting of all IT assets and services within established budget.  • Functioned as “accidental database administrator” for a SaaS line-of-business application.  • Remote oversight and management of one technician. Education BA in Politics and Environmental Studies Whitman College Skills Storage Area Network (SAN), Server Administration, High Availability Clustering, IT Infrastructure Management, IT Infrastructure Design, IT Infrastructure Operations