IT Manager IT Manager Pleasanton, CA IT Director/Manager with over 10 years of experience managing operations, leading and managing highly visible projects, allocating and managing resources, and fostering innovation in the biotech, semiconductor, software, retail, and distribution industries. Developed, mentored, and managed highly successful and efficient IT teams. Effective in leading consolidation projects across mergers and acquisitions. Expert on architecting, implementing, and managing on premise and cloud IT applications and infrastructures. Expert on designing and implementing complex IT solutions and projects. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Manager Distribution and Retail Company - San Francisco, CA October 2017 to Present • Developed strategies for consolidating operations of the Western Distribution and Retail divisions.  • Responsible for deliverables that meet company profitability and growth objectives.  • Handles issues and risks related to retail and distribution operations.  • Spearheaded the selection process of the ERP, PoS, and eCommerce platforms.  • Spearheaded the development and implementation of a customer reorder portal.  • Managed a $1.5M annual IT budget supporting the NorCal divisions.  • Reduced annual IT and building security operating cost by $200k.  • Increased operational efficiency by modernizing and stabilizing the IT infrastructure.  • Designed and implemented a faster and secure unified Wi?Fi network.  • Increased the network, internet, and intranet performance by 400%.  • Increased the capacity and performance of the file storage system.  • Optimized product deliveries by implementing a new delivery routing and tracking software.  • Optimized the physical inventory and yearly financial closing process.  • Implemented and enforced corporate systems and policies.  • Mentored staff on new business practices and methodologies. IT Manager / Sr. Systems Administrator Software Manufacturer 2007 to 2017 • Directed the Helpdesk & Network teams supporting both Corporate and Production IT operations.  • Managed a $5M annual Corporate IT budget supporting 12 domestic and 4 international offices.  • Consolidated and merged the email, instant messaging, network, and telecommunications infrastructures across 12 M&A companies.  • Implemented Okta Single Sign-on (SSO) for both on premise and cloud systems & applications.  • Spearheaded the design and implementation of a new $1M phone and contact center systems.  • Consolidated and merged the phone and contact center systems across several M&A companies.  • Migrated the on-premise Exchange and SharePoint servers to Office 365, resulting in reduced overhead and licensing costs.  • Spearheaded the refresh of the entire network infrastructure across 10 offices and datacenters by implementing new technologies from Cisco, Meraki, Dell, EMC, Apple, Microsoft, & HP.  • Implemented a centralized access control solution across 4 domestic offices with multiple floors.  • Collaborated with the Facilities team on opening new offices in New York, Boston, Salt Lake City, and San Francisco.  • Collaborated with the Engineering team on developing a release process for iOS and Google apps.  • Collaborated with Sales and Marketing on product demos and customer training.  • Primary technical advisor for the company’s annual user and partner conferences.  • Deployed a cloud storage solution eliminating the need to add additional local storage.  • Designed and deployed several micro-datacenters across the United States.  • Developed and implemented Corporate IT’s business continuity plan.  • Primary contributor for the company’s FedRAMP and PCI DSS compliance program. Operations Manager / Sr. Systems Administrator Business Solutions Provider 2001 to 2007 • Managed the Helpdesk and Network teams, including hiring, training, conflict resolution, performance coaching, and talent management.  • Developed and implemented IT policies and procedures.  • Provided proactive analysis of key metrics, project milestones, and departmental priorities.  • Negotiated and administered vendor and consultant service contracts.  • Deployed, configured, and maintained Windows, Exchange, and SQL servers.  • Deployed, configured, and maintained servers and storage systems from Dell, HP, IBM, Compaq, and Sun Microsystems.  • Deployed, configured, and maintained routers, firewalls, and switches from Cisco, Dell, HP, Netopia, and Lucent.  • Deployed, configured, and maintained Windows, macOS, SunOS, and Linux operating systems.  • Deployed, configured, and maintained backup systems.  • Managed and maintained phone systems from Avaya, Nortel, and Lucent.  • Managed and maintained building management systems, including heating, ventilation, air conditioning, lighting, power, fire, and security systems.  • Designed, deployed, and managed access control systems from Software House, Sensormatic, and GE Alliance. Education Computer Science Chabot College Electrical Engineering Mapua University Skills Office 365 (5 years), G Suite (5 years), Azure (1 year), AWS (1 year), AWS (1 year), Cisco (10+ years), Exchange Server (10+ years), SharePoint (8 years), DNS (10+ years), Windows (10+ years), macOS (10+ years), Active Directory (10+ years), PowerShell (10+ years), Disaster Recovery (10+ years), eDiscovery (7 years), Management (10+ years), Contract Negotiation (10+ years), Conflict Resolution (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (MCSE) Present Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/4rna70tyckpghu7f Project Management Skills: Time Management — Proficient August 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ridks7nempn17udq Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fvsc3y8kpf2iubuz Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.