IT Systems Administrator IT <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Systems Engineer, Sr Dickinson, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Systems Administrator PAS Global LLC (Contract) - Houston, TX May 2018 to January 2019 Provide support for both hardware and software issues in a Windows and Hyper-V environment. Manage the configuration, installation and operation of client-based computer operating systems.    Provide host and storage support to SQL developers; trouble shooting.    Respond to and resolve help desk requests. IT Systems Engineer, Sr LBC Tank Terminals (Contract) - Seabrook, TX September 2015 to June 2017 • Performs daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware, server resources, systems and key processes, reviewing system and application logs, verifying completion of scheduled jobs such as backups. Ensure maximum quality of availability of systems and simultaneously provide optimal storage capacity.  • Administered the virtual environment based on VMWare technology. Monitor health of VM hosts ESXi v.5.5 and virtual servers including patch management utilizing VMWare DRS (Distributed Resource Scheduler) and HA (High Availability) features. Added datastores and expanded virtual server's virtual disk as need it based on growth Setup vSwitches to isolate production VM's from the development and test environment. Troubleshoot VM host from console (command line) when required.  • Implementation and installation of Windows Deployment Services. Build OS images and driver packages for a range of manufacturers.  • Managed and maintained Veeam backups and Veeam One monitoring tool. Systems Administrator Marathon Petroleum (Contract) - Texas City, TX September 2014 to April 2015 • Performed installation of VMWare vCenter Configuration Manager (vCM ), Symantec Endpoint Protection Manager (SEPM) and Acronis Backup systems for the Operators Training Systems (OTS) facility in the plant.  • Setup 42 DNS zones in a Windows Workgroup environment to eliminate IP addresses and NETBios name conflicts. Infrastructure Support Lead Glazier Foods (Contract) - Houston, TX May 2014 to August 2014 • Implementation and support of servers and network infrastructure.  • Pivotal role in projects in new infrastructure of physical and virtual servers (VMWare).  • Established Disaster Recovery capabilities plans.  • Manage and monitor server backups (Backup Exec 2010) and perform data recovery reducing tape consumption 25% and performed data tape management in AS400 system. Senior Systems Administrator Baker Hughes (Contract) - Houston, TX August 2011 to November 2013 • Installation, configuration and maintenance of physical and virtual Windows servers  • Provided Local and Enterprise Global support towards incident requests. System health monitoring (Microsoft SCOM) and provisioning for hosting and storage platforms including capacity and patch management.  • Lead member of and in-house developed application for the creation and maintenance of shared folders worldwide.  • ARCserve backup administrator. Shared lead role in the upgrade of ARCserve to v.16.1 in North, Central and South America. Senior Systems Administrator Jacobs Technologies - Houston, TX June 2005 to April 2011 • Lead role in the introduction of a virtual environment solution based on VMWare technology to the Information Technology Service Management (ITSM) Directorate.  • Project Manager responsible for the architecture, design and installation of the VMWare environment. Managed installation of HP EVA SAN solution with the coordination of HP support. Project delivered on time and under budget. Provided documentation and MS Visio diagrams.  • Project Manager on the implementation of a CommVault backup solution. Designed and implement backup topology/architecture. Backup agents included all physical and virtual servers running Windows Operating Systems. Backup agents included Microsoft Exchange, MS Project, MS SharePoint, MS SQL, Oracle data bases and backup agents for Linux and UNIX (OS). Created backup policies and retention time based on contract's Service Level Agreement (SLA) and the Disaster Recovery (DR) Plan. Coordinate and schedule off-site data storage with Iron Mountain. Project delivered with all associated documentation and MS Visio diagrams.  • Member of the Enterprise domain administrators group maintaining Active Directory, DNS (Domain Name System), GPO (Group Policy Objects) and implementation and domain trusts.  • VMWare, Microsoft OS and MS applications and security patch releases. Senior Systems Administrator Jacobs Technologies - Houston, TX January 1990 to June 2005 • Contributing team member involved in the migration of multiple Windows NT 4 domains to an Active Directory environment. Migrated data from locations across the nation and their associated Security Groups to an EMC SAN solution following company's Proprietary Data and Export Control policies and regulations.  • Team Lead with the collaboration of application developers in the development of an in-house application for the creation, maintenance and handling of Shared folders. Several of these processes and procedures were adopted enterprise wide and are referenced by campus Disaster Recovery Plan and ISO certification documentation.  • Printer Server Administrator - Managed and maintained over 400 printer queues across five buildings in a Windows cluster environment.  • Regional technical lead for Anti-Virus Software (McAfee); maintenance and upgrades. Member of the Enterprise anti-virus team activities during Internet malicious threats.  • Backup administrator for Altiris Deployment and Notification Server.  • Performed diagnostics of DNS, WINS and DHCP.  • Administrator of Veritas Backup Exec (v.7.x) using a StorageTek backup tape silo systems.  • Desktop Designer - Built standard loads based on campus and regional requirements for Windows v.3.11 and Windows XP. Developed software packages for applications upgrades.  • Provide Desktop support of Operating Systems (Windows and Apple OS), Microsoft Office and in house developed applications. Education MCSE Microcomputer Technology Institute (MTI) Houston - Houston, TX 1985 to 1986 Civil Engineering University of Bayamon 1980 to 1981 Business Administration Universidad Sagrado Corazón (USC) San Juan - San Juan, PR 1978 to 1979 Skills Active Directory (10+ years), Deployment (10+ years), DNS (10+ years), SAN (10+ years), STORAGE AREA NETWORK (10+ years), System Administrator, System Admin, Vmware Additional Information Technical Proficiencies    • Windows Server Administration: Windows NT, Windows 2000, 2003, 2008, 2012  • VMWare Administration and Microsoft Hyper-V support, Windows Deployment Services (WDS)  • Backup solutions: Veeam, CommVault, ARCserve, NetBackup, IBM Tivoli  • Hardware: Dell, IBM, Compaq, HP, NetApp, NEXSAN.  • Active Directory, Group Policies (GPO), LDAP Administration, Shared folder administration  • DNS, TCP/IP, Network Troubleshooting, Domain Account creation  • SAN Administration support (LUN configuration/presentation)  • Developer's Support: MS SQL, Oracle Databases, Share Point, MS Project and Exchange Administrators  • Basic Linux Red Hat knowledge and Power Shell scripting skills  • Print Management Administration