Systems Engineer 2 <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer 2 Systems Engineer 2 - K&R Network Solutions La Mesa, CA Work Experience Systems Engineer 2 K&R Network Solutions March 2017 to Present Provided Managed IT Services to customers in various industries from San Diego to Los Angeles. Tier 2 Member of national  helpdesk team and act as escalation point. Troubleshoot and configure network routing, firewalls, VPN's and switches.  Configure, troubleshoot and maintain Windows servers and desktops. Utilize Kaseya and PSA ConnectWise. Assist with project implementation. Senior Systems Engineer Excedeo November 2015 to 2017 Provided Managed Services as a key team player in a senior position. Responsible for information system design,  implementation, maintenance remote and onsite support. Track projects and trouble tickets with ConnectWise. Maintain costs while ensuring maximum availability. Responded to 24/7 emergency service requests. Collaborated with engineering team  to implement projects. Systems Administrator Reliant General Insurance Service January 2013 to November 2015 Implement, maintain and monitor infrastructure for backend and frontend systems. Train employees on new and existing  systems, software and procedures. Responsible for providing budgeting recommendations, licensing compliance, purchasing  negotiations, and uptime of high-performance infrastructure. Successfully migrated physical servers to VMware cluster with iSCSI and DAS storage. Primary member of 24/7/365 support desk team. Oversee system maintenance schedule, data backup,  patch management, and system updates. Monitored uptime, availability and performance of platform to ensure service-level  benchmarks are met. Maintain an Avaya IP Office 500 series IP PBX and end points. Assist in administering IBM iSeries  OS400 system. Support software developers. Systems Administrator Janus Health Inc 2006 to January 2013 Implement and maintain infrastructure for SaaS-based EHR platform supporting in-home physician and non-physician  practitioners in 11 states. Train and remotely support mobile practitioners and office staffs. Migrated all systems from office to colocation to VMware Cloud. Serve as original team member for product design. Assisted the execution of staff  development, including hiring engineering team members. Delivered concept into ambulatory EHR market within 24 months.  Manage planning, budgeting, licensing compliance, purchasing, and uptime of highly available SaaS infrastructure. Member  of 24/7/365 support desk team. Oversee system maintenance schedule, data backup, patch management, and system updates.  Monitored performance of SaaS platform to ensure service-level benchmarks were met. Maintain an Inter-Tel 5000 series IP  PBX and end points. Systems Engineer Skyriver Communications Inc 1999 to 2006 Provided remote and onsite support for small- to medium-sized businesses. Oversaw and maintained costs at a minimum  while maintaining maximum availability. Researched and recommend hardware, software, and vendors. Installed and maintained servers, desktops, laptops, firewalls, switches, and routers. Responded to 24/7 emergency service requests.  Collaborated with engineering team to implement projects. Help Desk / Inventory Control Supervisor Amscan, Inc 1994 to 1998 Provided hardware and software support to windows-based clients. Supervised team of inventory control clerks. Trained and certified forklift operators. Education Computer Science Grantham University Skills Linux, System Admin, System Administrator, Active Directory, Vmware Military Service Branch: US Nany Service Country: United States Rank: E4 Certifications/Licenses MCSE 1 1997 to Present A+ 1997 to Present Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE  * IT Management * IT Project Management * IT System Design  * Virtualization * Troubleshooting/Analysis * System Migration  * Google Apps * Hardware/Software * Systems Administration  * Office 365 Configurations * MCSE and A+ Certifications  * Customer Service * Hardware/User Support * Phone Systems  * Compliance * Installation & Maintenance:  * Mission-Critical Systems Planning & All IT infrastructure  Implementation    TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES    Operating Windows Desktop: Windows 10 through 3.1; Windows Server: 2016 through NT 4 Mac: Mac OS; Mobile:  Systems: iOS; Android; Linux Red Hat, Ubuntu, Suse    Systems & Storage: SAN, NAS, SAS, SCSI, RAID, DAS IBM/Dell/HP: Desktop, Laptop Servers  Hardware: Network Printers and Scanning Devices: HP, Cannon, Xerox, Minolta, Sharp    Networking LAN, WAN, TCP/IP, DHCP, DNS, RRAS, SNMP, VPN, VLAN, FTP, SSH, SSL, TLS, SMTP, IMAP,  and NAT, PAT, IPsec, Cloud Services, Cisco, Sonicwall, Juniper, Dell, Netgear, Barracuda, Open DNS  Protocols:    Software: VMware: vCenter, ESXi, Workstation; Microsoft: Servers, Hyper-V, Exchange, IIS, MS SQL, Office  BACKUP: Shadow Protect, Veeam, Replay, Backup Exec, Acronis; RMM: Kaseya, Continuum Adobe:  Photoshop, Acrobat Security: ESET, GFI Vipre and Control Now, Symantec, Trend Micro, McAfee,  WebRoot, MalwareBytes Mortgage: Calyx Point, Encompass; Accounting; QuickBooks, DAC Easy, Charter  House Monitoring: Nagios, Control Now, SolarWinds Orion Scripting: Python, PowerShell, Bash