Senior UNIX Systems Administrator Senior UNIX <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Systems Manager / Principal - Technology Security Fishers, IN Solutions-oriented, energetic IT leader with a 2016 Masters in Homeland Security / Information Security and Forensics and over 25 years of experience providing enterprise-wide leadership and direction in progressively more responsible positions. Extensive experience in multiple areas of information security, technology, services, and applications. Demonstrated ability to champion the evolution of enterprise architecture support strategies and tactical business needs while addressing information security, compliance, and technical risks. History of promoting secure technologies and solutions that support interoperability, scalability, manageability, and supportability. Customer-oriented with high-level organizational, negotiation, communication, time management, analytical, and problem solving skills. Strong understanding of the impact IT has on business. Proven team leader with success directing a broad range of IT initiatives that support corporate and organizational objectives. Demonstrate broad-based strengths and accomplishments in:  - System Security & Integrity   - Security Policy, Standards, & Controls  - IT Security Risk Management   - Solution Architecture  - GSA (NIST) Compliance  - Cloud Security  - PCI Compliance  - Sarbanes Oxley IT Compliance   - Audit Coordination  - Vendor Management   - Organizational Compliance   - IT Merger Integration  - Process & Procedure Planning   - Infrastructure Management  - Staff Recruiting & Training  - System Design & Management   - Technical Roadmaps   - Maintenance Coordination Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior UNIX Systems Administrator AT&T, INC. / SBC COMMUNICATIONS, INC. / AMERITECH June 1998 to Present (1998 - 2000) Recruited to lead application development and support team that planned, created, and maintained 24/7 applications for corporate network services business unit. Supported total of 17 UNIX AIX, 2 HP-UX systems, 3 Windows NT servers, 1 team Exchange server, and 2 HACMP  clusters on AIX platform.    • Provided solid leadership to five-member system- administrator team; designated priorities, balanced  workloads, interviewed team candidates, and trained new hires.  • Played critical role on Y2K preparation team; designed and implemented test plans, maintained assets, and managed external vendor running Y2K testing.  • Developed and executed technical infrastructure solution for two critical regulatory-impacting applications.  • Effectively collaborated with IT security unit to develop corporate methodologies for securing servers. Senior Systems Manager / Principal - Technology Security AT&T, INC. / SBC Communications, INC. / AMERITECH June 1998 to Present (2006 - Present) Leading UNIX midrange security team addressing security and operational issues across more than 120k servers and virtual instances; providing enterprise-wide policy, standards, guidance, and common interface; and developing security solutions, processes, and policies that align with business requirements. Managing immediate team and others as necessary for completion of various organizational and enterprise-wide security and compliance projects. Coordinating Homeland Security, SOX, PCI, and other audit activities. Working closely with Windows counterparts to develop and maintain common security and compliance standards across the enterprise.    • Leads team that developed and implemented multiple enterprise-wide security applications and processes, including: Security and Audit Dashboard, Variance Tracking and Authorization Tool, Automated Security Log Reporting, OS File Integrity Management.  • Continually determine and prioritize security needs and concerns; keep corporate senior management current and work closely with AT&T Chief Security Office organization.  • Author and contributor to corporate security policies; contributor to enterprise security policy maintained by the AT&T Chief Security Office organization, including authoring most of the Unix baseline requirements. Co-authored the Midrange security ITIL process standardization policy documentation.  • Maintain audit controls; ensure compliance with PCI, GSA, SOX, and other controls.  • Manages enterprise-wide auditing, compliance, and remediation activities for midrange  • Integrating large, separate environments into a single set of standard processes and implementations; Bell South, AT&T, SBC Communications, and Cingular merger; multiple re-organizations.  • Managing and implementing multiple projects for enterprise-wide security and business process  solutions. Platform Specialist/Senior Technical Team Lead AT&T, INC. / SBC Communications, Inc / AMERITECH June 1998 to Present (2001 - 2006) Provided general technical architectural leadership for AIX UNIX platform, one of primary platforms. Functioned as primary technical architect for High Availability, fiber-attached storage, and operational security. Technical liaison between IBM and SBC for AIX platform. Headed team of five system administrators with indirect responsibility for additional 90 SAs.    • Provided key assistance for multiple initiatives including developing and maintaining technical roadmap for AIX platform; creating standards and procedures for enterprise-wide implementation of AIX platform and all UNIX midrange; and actively participating in architecture and implementation of multiple key projects.  • Supplied senior IT management with decision-making recommendations on potential use of new  technologies, including ease of integration, ROI, and organizational impact.  • Ensured system administrators and various levels of management were well-informed on standards, technical roadmaps, technical expectations, and other information.  • Met aggressive deadlines for resolution of priority issues through effective organization and leadership of SWAT teams. Platform Specialist AT&T, INC. / SBC COMMUNICATIONS, INC. / AMERITECH June 1996 to Present (2000 - 2001) Directed IT aspects of merger while continuing with systems administrator functions. Received retention bonus to remain with organization throughout merger. Conducted hardware/software and IT personnel asset inventories.    • Made significant contributions to development of "best-of-breed" standards and methodologies, including security standards, for use in combined company as member of midrange merger team.  • Met challenge of integrating Ameritech personnel into new organization; provided formal and informal instruction for staff including those in-sourced from IBM Global Services. Systems Administrator, Systems Engineer, and Systems Integrator Aerotek, XLConnect, and Client Services Group - Indianapolis, IN 1997 to 1998 in Indianapolis, IN. (Contracting from 1997-1998) Network Supervisor COLLEGE OF THE LIBERAL ARTS AT PENN STATE, State College 1994 to 1997 Recruited to plan, install, and manage college's first comprehensive WAN and LAN spanning 8  buildings and available to 1,200+ faculty, staff, and graduate-student users. Administered three Windows NT Servers. Provided top-tier support for 12+ UNIX workstations and servers, 15 Netware servers, 2 Linux servers, and over 1000 desktops throughout the college. Planned and performed maintenance for network and server components.    • Facilitated information and resource sharing by performing IP tunneling of Netware servers; installed, configured, and maintained 15 Novell severs at the core of shared and networked environment.  • Ensured seamless interoperations and sharing of documents by developing relevant standards for Macintosh, DOS, and Windows operating systems.  • Enabled monitoring of shared licensing pool for Microsoft and other products on end users' desktops by helping with installation, configuration, and maintenance of software licensing tool.  • Developed initial technical architecture for college's first Web presence; created standards for website layout, formatting, and site and page content.  • Effectively trained desktop support staff on frontline support, installation and maintenance of software, and installation of standard images for supported platforms. Education Master's in Homeland Security - Information Security and Forensics Pennsylvania State University June 2014 to May 2016 Post Baccalaureate Certificate in Information Systems Cybersecurity The Pennsylvania State University June 2014 to December 2014 Bachelor's in Business Management University of Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ June 2003 to June 2006 Certifications/Licenses NSTISSI-4011 Certificate December 2014 to Present Additional Information Youth Program Director – Pinheads (Fishers, IN) (2014 - Present)  • Manages and coaches youth leagues.  • Currently have more than 60 youth bowlers.  • Award more than $3,000 in scholarships each year.