Senior Cloud Architect Senior Cloud Architect Ambitious Systems Engineer Huntsville, AL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Cloud Architect Pharicode LLC - Huntsville, AL January 2019 to Present Managed teams of engineers, architects, and administrators to provide a conduit for Government customers to move to the Cloud Datacenter model.    Provide technical input and oversight to Government customers, provide expert technical staff to support the mission, and keep abreast of current trends in the Information Technology sector Data Systems Manager\Enterprise Architect Teledyne Technologies - Huntsville, AL June 2015 to Present Engineer\Architect new solutions for worldwide data-centers and new company acquisitions.    Analyze and provide best possible solution in a timely manner for both local and remote site projects and problems.    Provide technical input and oversight to customers, provide expert technical staff to support the mission, and keep abreast of current trends in the Information Technology sector. Systems Administrator IV Alutiiq - Huntsville, AL May 2012 to June 2015 The Army's Global Network Enterprise service provider, executing full-spectrum cyber operations and attaining information superiority, achieving a Joint, Inter-agency and Multinational network enterprise.    Designed and implemented server solutions for various commands utilizing VMware vSphere 4.1, 5.0, and 5.1 along with Microsoft Windows Server 2008 & 2008 R2.     Designed and implemented VMware SRM solution for Business Continuity Site.    Worked with the Information Assurance team to verify and STIG all new hardware and software to IAVA compliance coming onto the network.     Maintain equipment and infrastructure operability. Perform preventive maintenance, installation, and basic to intermediate repairs on all Systems equipment.    Analyze and provide best possible solution in a timely manner for both local and remote problems. Systems Engineer III TEKSystems - Huntsville, AL September 2011 to April 2012 JRDC Missile Defense Agency  September 2011 - Present  The Missile Defense Agency (MDA) is a research, development, and acquisition agency within the Department of Defense. Our workforce includes government civilians, military service members, and contractor personnel in multiple locations across the United States. We are focused on retaining and recruiting a dedicated workforce interested in supporting our national security.  Systems Engineer III Ulan & Clan  • Designed and implemented server solutions for various commands utilizing vSphere 4.1 and 5.0 along with Microsoft Windows Server 2008 & 2008 R2. Systems Engineering DSCI Inc June 2010 to September 2011 Various Locations, Afghanistan  June 2010 - September 2011  DSCI is an employee-owned products and services company that links the following disciplines: Systems Engineering, Simulation, Modeling, Analysis, Research, Testing, and Training as an integrated process to provide unique solutions to complex problems within the Communications, Command, Control, Computer, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (C4ISR) space.    Systems Engineer NIPR, CENTRIX, SIPR  • Designed and implemented server solutions for various commands utilizing VMware ESXi 4.1 and Microsoft Windows 2008. These packages include Microsoft Exchange 2007, Microsoft WSUS, Microsoft SCCM, Quest Spotlight Monitoring, and other applications/appliances.  • Provided support to CPOF systems in SOTF commands here in theater.  • Worked with the Information Assurance team to verify and STIG all new hardware and software to IAVA compliance coming onto the network.  • Perform weekly scans of all equipment on network for IAVA compliance and patch according with SCCM and WSUS.  • Create, maintain, and refine native 2008 active directory architecture for parent domain and all child domains.  • Maintain equipment and infrastructure operability. Perform preventive maintenance, installation, and basic to intermediate repairs on all Systems equipment.  • Analyze and provide best possible solution in a timely manner for both local and remote problems. Systems Engineering DSCI Inc December 2009 to June 2010 Yongsan Garrison, South Korea  December 2009 - June 2010  DSCI is an employee-owned products and services company that links the following disciplines: Systems Engineering, Simulation, Modeling, Analysis, Research, Testing, and Training as an integrated process to provide unique solutions to complex problems within the Communications, Command, Control, Computer, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (C4ISR) space.    Systems Engineer P2V Team  • Aided in the design and implementation of enterprise level datacenter to convert the Eighth Army Units at Yongsan from physical servers to a modern virtualized environment utilizing VMware ESX 3.5.  • Solely designed and implemented a backup solution utilizing Symantec Net Backup with a Disk to Disk to Tape strategy with a Grandfather Father Son rotation scenario as well as dedicate a warm standby site with Double-Take Availability.  • Worked closely with Yongsan's Information Assurance team to verify and STIG all new hardware and software to IAVA compliance coming into the datacenter, as well as aided in the creation of the C&A for the future DIACAP package.  • Worked in a leadership role providing direction to ten engineers to complete the P2V and fulfill the contract. IA Administrator CLM Software - Redstone Arsenal, AL September 2009 to December 2009 Redstone Arsenal, Alabama  September 2009 - December 2009  CLM Software, Incorporated, is a small Defense-simulation engineering services company located in the heart Ft. Rucker, Alabama, the "Home of Army Aviation." CLM seeks to provide the best level of support possible for the tremendous number of legacy simulation systems remaining in service by gathering and preserving decades of institutional knowledge. Additionally, CLM provides engineering talent fluent in the selection- and application of the latest leading- and "bleeding-edge" technologies to serve emerging customer needs reliant upon the latest technology.    IA Administrator DIACAP Team  • Rebuild infrastructure to connect up to 37 separate networks into one unified network under one Microsoft native 2003 domain.  • Maintain equipment and infrastructure operability. Perform preventive maintenance, installation, and basic to intermediate repairs on all Systems equipment.  • Operated and maintained the Retina scan tool in conjunction with SCCM 2007 server including building the deployable packages to keep the systems up to DIACAP compliance.  • Designed, implemented and managed DIACAP compliance on multiple projects and programs with the development team. Systems Administrator ITT Systems Division April 2009 to August 2009 Camp Arifjan, Kuwait  April 2009 - August 2009  ITT's Systems Division provides a broad range of systems integration, engineering, and technical support solutions, command and control systems, satellite communications, tactical warning/attack assessment, and space launch services for the US Military and its allies. Our products and services cover the globe, supporting our customers both at home and abroad.    Systems Administrator TACSWA-CAA  • Build, operate and maintain more than 100 unclassified and secret Windows 2003 Servers.  • Maintained COMMVault backups of all systems, both unclassified and secret, including Microsoft Exchange mailboxes for the entire Arifjan Base.  • Designed, maintain, and refine native 2003 active directory architecture for local domain.  • Provide support for all users on Arifjan Base. This includes, but is not limited to providing status updates, maintaining Active Directory Forests, ensuring reliable connectivity for all participating endpoints, and generating regular quality of service and after action reports.  • Maintain equipment and infrastructure operability. Perform preventive maintenance, installation, and basic to intermediate repairs on all Systems equipment.  • Analyze and provide best possible solution in a timely manner for both local and remote problems. System Engineer Aviagen Incorporated - Huntsville, AL September 2007 to April 2009 Supported the Datacenter in Huntsville, AL as well as the other offices around the world, which include Chile, Brazil, New Zealand, Australia, China, and India. All locations were integrated into either an MPLS setup with AT&T, or with VPN connections back to the Datacenter in Huntsville. Through the utilization of such Dell Poweredge Servers, Cisco Routers and Switches, as well as VMware ESX 3.5.  • Ensured connectivity and quality of more than 30 locations throughout the world while providing real time troubleshooting support to far-end clients.  • Ensured internetwork operability with an AT&T MPLS for North and South American and for worldwide locations with Cisco ASA's.  • Rebuilt local datacenter with Dell and Cisco equipment with Microsoft Server 2003 and 2008 operating systems.  • Designed, maintain, and refine native 2003 active directory architecture for local domain.  • Troubleshot and repaired any and all equipment both on local and remote locations.  • Designed, implemented, and tested a Disaster Recovery solution with Symantec BackupExec 12.  • Installed entirely new datacenter utilizing Dell Poweredge Servers and an EMC SAN. Systems Analyst InfoPro Corp - Huntsville, AL March 2007 to September 2007 Huntsville, Alabama  March 2007- September 2007  InfoPro is a technical contracting company that was awarded a contract to support a NASA Development Team working on Redstone Arsenal in Huntsville Alabama.    Systems Analyst NASA Development Team  • Designed, implemented and managed DIACAP compliance on multiple projects and programs with the development team.  • Wrote and editing existing documentation to maintain a record of process and procedures.  • Worked with network engineers to troubleshoot conferencing issues.  • Conducted quarterly training, which taught new end users how to proficiently operate new software and devices. Sr. Systems Administrator EnGenius Consulting Group - New Orleans, LA September 2006 to March 2007 EnGenius Consulting Group Regional Field Office, New Orleans, LA  September 2006- March 2007  EnGenius Consulting was awarded the contract to support the Corps of Engineers in New Orleans, Louisiana after Hurricane Katrina.    Sr. Systems Administrator USACE Systems  • Maintain equipment and infrastructure operability. Perform preventive maintenance, installation, and basic to intermediate repairs on all Systems equipment.  • Supported five Emergency Field Offices, with a combined user base of 2000 DoD Civilians.  • Wrote and editing existing documentation to maintain a record of process and procedures.  • Attended weekly Commanders Briefing as the representative to the MIS shop.  • Managed existing VERITAS BackupExec 10e backup solution.  • Conducted quarterly training, which taught new end users how to proficiently operate new software and devices. Systems Administrator EnGenius Consulting Group - Bay Saint Louis, MS September 2005 to September 2006 EnGenius Consulting Group Emergency Field Office, Bay St. Louis, MS  September 2005- September 2006  EnGenius Consulting was awarded the contract to support the Corps of Engineers along the Mississippi Gulf Coast after Hurricane Katrina.    Systems Administrator USACE Systems  • Maintain equipment and infrastructure operability. Perform preventive maintenance, installation, and basic to intermediate repairs on all Systems equipment.  • Supported Emergency Field Offices, with a combined user base of 400 DoD Civilians.  • Wrote and editing existing documentation to maintain a record of process and procedures.  • Managed existing VERITAS BackupExec 10e backup solution.  • Filled the roll of Geographical Information Systems Officers creating the maps and updated overlays with ArcGIS.  • Conducted quarterly training, which taught new end users how to proficiently operate new software and devices. Education BS in Network Management Colorado Technical University 2012 to 2015 Computer Information Systems Christian Brothers University - Memphis, TN 2004 to 2005 Skills Solution Architect Additional Information Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer for Microsoft Windows Server 2003  November 2005    CompTia Security + | Pearson Vue Center Camp Arifjan, Kuwait  June 2009    Microsoft SCCM 2007 Administrator | Arcent University, Kuwait  June 2009    IASO (Mgt Level 1) | US Army Signal Center, Fort Gordon, Georgia  September 2009    VMware Certified Professional 4 | Pearson Vue, Yongsan Garrison, Seoul, South Korea  March 2010    VMware Certified Professional 5 | Pearson Vue, Huntsville, AL  February 2012