Data Systems Administrator Data <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Data Systems Administrator - United States Marine Corps Cleveland, OH Systems Administrator (Secret Clearance-Active) with experience in networking, virtualization, server administration, and  end-user customer support. Working knowledge in Microsoft Office, SharePoint, and information assurance. Experience with  Windows, Linux (Red Hat/Kali), and Mac OS. Proficient with personnel management, IT systems deployment, and change  management. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Systems Administrator United States Marine Corps May 2016 to Present Supervised and maintained 24/7 technical support for remote employees in 4 different countries  ? Developed courses of action and business continuity plans for the Chief Information Officer due to possible  infrastructure changes  ? Configured and maintained virtualization clients (Domain controllers, Microsoft Exchange, HBSS, Repeater/Responder, WDS, SolarWinds, Tenable Security Center, Cisco Call Manager, etc)  ? Responsible for imaging, configuring, and deploying user equipment including: desktops, laptops, phones, printers, and scanners  ? Discovered and investigated crypto-mining malware on remote PC, initiating the cyber response process before it  infected 220 assets  ? Implemented PowerShell script that created over 1200 Microsoft Exchange mailboxes in Active Directory, saving  over 12 man hours Senior Help Desk Supervisor United States Marine Corps September 2018 to March 2019 Managed day-to-day operations with 6 person project team, assuring that priorities were developed, known, and accomplished. Customer satisfaction led to every member of the team earning individual awards  ? Oversaw help desk operations that supported over 1200 personnel, on 5 separate networks in a deployed  environment  ? Established ticket tracker solution that expedited ticket handling by 35%  ? Developed help desk standard operating procedures that increased proficiency, assigned roles, and explained  user acceptance policies for 600 end-users  ? Facilitated and expedited over 1200 network access request authorizations on multiple deployed networks Quality Assurance Manager United States Marine Corps September 2018 to March 2019 Responsible for inventory, operability, and management of $1,000,000 worth of communications equipment  ? Discovered mission-critical asset modification that was overseen by superiors, saving $69,885 dollars  ? Facilitated warranty claims for Microsoft, Cisco, Ricoh, Dell, and Lenovo products  ? Managed inventory of hardware and software products, including purchasing, assigning and disposal of equipment SharePoint Site Manager United States Marine Corps May 2018 to March 2019 Managed permission levels for over 300 end-users on multiple networks in 2 countries  ? Edited and distributed a technical publication for SharePoint access requests to 300 users  ? Maintained SharePoint pages for 5 departments Field Help Desk Technician United States Marine Corps May 2016 to February 2017 Monitored, tracked, benchmarked and analyzed trends in help desk requests to ensure end-user satisfaction  ? Promptly responded to over 150 customer enquiries in person, telephone, or email  ? Effectively managed approximately 60 end-users at a remote site as sole help desk technician  ? Managed 500 AD users' permissions and credentials Education Bachelor's in Information Technology Management Excelsior College - New York, NY 2020 AAS in Technical Studies Excelsior College - New York, NY Skills System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory, System Admin Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/daniel-maciejewski0671 Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: Sgt