Senior Systems Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Systems Administrator Honolulu, HI Dedicated and driven Systems Administrator with 10+ years of experience working in a variety of IT environments achieving a high level of success. Constructive leadership, development and management skills with the ability to positively motivate others towards increased productivity with minimal supervision. Successful with identifying opportunities for improvement and applying creative solutions resulting in increased productivity and or reducing operational costs. Extensive background with troubleshooting and problem solving, managing enterprise level networks consisting of Microsoft workstations, servers, VM’s and cloud based platforms. Reliable, organized and hardworking team player who works well under pressure quickly adapting to fast pace environments and consistently recognized for achieving quarterly goals. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator FOX RESTAURANT CONCEPTS - TRUEFOOD KITCHEN May 2016 to December 2018 • Setup Helpdesk, Asset Management and Knowledge base software portals reducing downtime, providing analytical insight for increasing Help Desk productivity and improving the IT Departments transparency and relationships within the company.  • Implemented MDM solution using Apple MDM and DEP (Device Enrollment Program) to manage iPads across all restaurants.  • Upgraded existing wireless infrastructure to Cisco Meraki Wireless Access Points, configured policies for automated deployments, guest wireless and QoS improving application performance and security.  • Setup secured Departmental shares using Active Directory security groups and automating access to company resources appropriately ensuring proper security of company data.  • Managed Vendor relationships for purchasing IT equipment, set weekly meeting with after-hours support vendors reviewing company procedures and analytics to eliminate consistencies.  • Deployed and managed software and applications using Group Policy, VBS and PowerShell scripting.  • Designed, implemented and managed on-premise Hyper-V server hosting various critical departmental VM's including WDS (Windows Deployment Server), MDT (Microsoft Deployment Toolkit), WSUS, Helpdesk and Asset Management Software.  • Responsible for ensuring all restaurants nationwide were functioning at optimal levels, communicating with vendors and restaurants during POS, Network or Application outages minimizing negative impact on revenue and customer experiences.  • Developed installation packages for enterprise systems software installations and changes and automated the upgrades and deployments of Windows 10 images using WDS, MDT and PXE boot.  • Managed system backups and recovery procedures of critical business applications and data. Domain and Systems Administrator VERENGO SOLAR February 2013 to November 2015 • Set up Manage Engine Service Desk for IT Help Desk ensuring proper routing of IT requests meeting SLA requirements.  • Reviewed weekly reports of IT requests checking SLA's, ensuring proper assignment/escalations while looking for repetitive patterns and resolving with automation or environment changes to improve Help Desk and departmental daily operations.  • Management of company asset inventories including available workstations and workstations in repair, software installations and license compliancy, software update status, and employee asset assignment.  • Oversaw company assets under lease agreements ensuring assets were returned upon lease expiration, forecasting quarterly IT purchases and providing information to VP of IT.  • Responsible for setting up and maintaining local virtual servers running VMware at Phoenix call center and Torrance corporate office.  • Identified and setup a solution allowing Help Desk team to remote into machines internally and externally using DameWare.  • Managed and monitored company domain including Active Directory, Group Policies and Directory replication health.  • Handled level III daily support requests from employees and executives.  • Travelled to corporate office in Torrance to provide training to Help Desk staff and gather feedback and ideas to improve IT operations reporting information to VP of IT.  • Configured Cisco wireless access points at call center separating the guest wireless and company wireless on separate VLANS.  • Assisted in maintaining Exchange server, Microsoft Azure and management of Office 365 accounts.  • Maintained and strengthened relationships with various vendors including CDW, Dell and Century Link. Domain and Systems Administrator SUPERSHUTTLE INTERNATIONAL October 2006 to September 2012 • Provided level III application and workstation support for executives and employees both locally and remotely.  • Developed and strengthened working relationships with various vendors including Insight Global, CDW, Dell and Manage Engine.  • Managed IT equipment purchases for 33 sites, averaging approximately $50k per month. Ensured IT purchases were classified as capital vs. expense properly, and charged departments accurately following company GL cost codes.  • Implemented and managed Windows 2008 and 2012 servers distributed across 33 cities providing a local Domain Controller, Active Directory Sites and Services and Group Policy, WSUS server and local printer server.  • Responsible for responding to after hour mission critical support issues.  • Provided support and maintained inventory of over 3000 Nextel cell phones and outsourcing hardware issues to vendors. Required to have 30 functioning phones for replacement of broken phones turned in by drivers without disrupting daily operations.  • Managed company's intranet site along with SharePoint.  • Backup, install updates and implement terminal servers that run in-house applications for employee daily operations.  • Maintain company e-mail server, manage e-mail accounts and provide end user support.  • Created documentation and policies for account management, access requests and for the setup and retirement of workstations and servers.  • Assist with managing scheduled daily and weekly company backups using Veritas Backup Exec.  • Manage company Domain/Active Directory including Sites and Services, Group Policy and Account Management.  • Setup Asset management system including license management and inventory.  • Setup and manage Windows Server Update Service across company WAN.  • Assisted on the completion of a global software licensing audit to ensure all software installs are compliant and abide by SOX regulations. Education Associate in Business Management Kaplan University 2005 to 2007 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO Meraki, DHCP, NETWORK MONITORING, TCP, Powershell, SCCM, Vmware, Microsoft Server 2003, 2008, 2012, 2016 (10+ years), System Administrator (10+ years), Windows Vista, Windows 7, Windows 10, Android OS, Apple iOS, Microsoft Office 365, Microsoft Azure, Microsoft Intune, Microsoft WSUS, Microsoft Hyper-V, Virtual Machines, Virtual LANs, Active Directory Group Policy, VB Scripting, VPN, Apple MDM, Apple Device Enrollment Program, Terminal Server, Windows Deployment Services, Microsoft Deployment Toolkit (MDT), Layer 3 Network Switches, Inventory Management, Forecasting IT Expenses, Project Planning and Management, Inventory Management, Backup and Recovery Procedures, Managing Vendor Relations and Analytics, Training & Development, Layer 1 Cat5 and Cat 6 Cabling, Implementing and managing Wireless infrastructures, Sharepoint, LYNC, System Admin