SugarCRM, Remote - Support Specialist SugarCRM, Remote - Support Specialist Salisbury, MD Work Experience SugarCRM, Remote - Support Specialist 2015 to Present Work remotely to triage cases, calls, emails, escalating them when needed via Atlassian  ? Assist with software and server related issues from start to resolution within SLA window  ? Use CLI (DB and FS) to diagnose and resolve problems  ? Work directly with the customer to address inquiries with the core product  ? Write and update support content as product evolves  ? Review code pushes via Atlassian and GitHub to isolate ways to resolve bugs  ? Utilized remote workspace tools for video conferencing and team communication Systems Administrator D3Corp - Ocean City, MD 2014 to 2015 Helped configure LAMP environments for testing and production development  ? Built scripts for automation and development  ? Assisted in monitoring server health to limit downtime L2 Junior Administrator Hostgator.com - Austin, TX 2012 to 2014 Identified and resolved issues on the server level via chat  ? Worked with BASH and other programing languages to improve resolution time  ? Interacted with customers via phone, ticket system and chat  ? Completed continuing education courses offered in email, cPanel, WHM, LAMP, etc. Manager Fishers Popcorn - Ocean City, MD 2002 to 2012 Managed and oversaw employees to ensure quality assurance standards  ? Oversaw inventory and receipt of products Education Computer Science Wilmington University - Wilmington, DE 2020 Skills Bash, Php, Python, Ruby, Apache, Customer Service, Help Desk, Customer Support, Call Center Assessments Customer Focus & Orientation — Highly Proficient August 2019 Responding to customer situations with sensitivity. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qzfbufvcevuvxbe4 Technical Support — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dqojnocv84ruusfe Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/bvksp9n2djv8u5qy Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills and Awards  ? Most cases taken per quarter for over a year  ? Regularly achieve highest NPS score per quarter including a few 100% ratings  ? Working knowledge of Linux servers, Linux operating system, BASH, Java, Python, Ruby,  PHP, Apache, MySQL configuration  ? Management of the amazon AWS environment, as well as other cloud based platform