Sr Surveillance Technician Sr Surveillance Technician IT Specialist Bullhead City, AZ Decorated military veteran who earned multiple commendation for superior performance. Extraordinary leader and problem  solver with over 10+ years as an experienced IT professional. Detail-oriented team player who is flexible, reliable and  adaptable to any environment. Work Experience Sr Surveillance Technician Technical Systems Inc - Garden Grove, CA February 2015 to January 2017 Lead a team of 5 technicians for Wells Fargo of California's Analog to PoE camera, network and cabling conversion.  Designed CAD layouts for installation of new access control installations and PoE integration to include: Camera locations and Point of View, HID Card and FOB readers, and Network Head-End equipment in accordance with Wells Fargo  Corporate Security and Network Security installation guidelines.  Installed over 20 3VR Servers, 15 Cisco PoE Network Switches and 250 PoE Cameras, in 25 Wells Fargo Banking Centers both In-Store (Grocery) and Retail (Traditional Branches).  Maintained all Cisco PoE switches, 3VR Servers and Cameras (Analog and PoE) for Wells Fargo's Southern California  Branches (Orange County and San Diego).  Responsible for the inventory off all equipment to include: Access Control Systems, Surveillance Systems, Cabling, and Installation Equipment. Senior Systems Administrator E&J Gallo Winery - Modesto, CA February 2013 to January 2015 Resolved computer hardware and software, printing, installation, word processing, email and operating systems issues.  Maintained 100% up-time on company networks through careful and preventative maintenance.  Resolved all virus and malware issues.  Installed, maintained and configured servers, network switches and operating.  Responsible for the accurate hardware and software inventories. Systems Administrator / Desktop Support Hill Family Corporation May 2010 to January 2013 Anaheim Hills, CA  Replaced POS machines, trouble shooting Network outages, replacing hardware and software.  Responsible for effective provisioning, installation/configuration, operation, and maintenance of systems hardware and software and related infrastructure.  Implemented company policies, technical procedures and standards for preserving the integrity and security of data, reports, access and customer purchasing information per SOX regulations and guidelines.  Monitored network performance and provided network performance statistical reports for both real-time and historical  measurements. Desktop Support Specialist Morgan Drexen - Anaheim, CA December 2007 to March 2010 Provided a single point of contact for end users to receive support and maintenance within the organization's desktop  computing environment.  Performed daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware, server resources, systems and key processes, reviewing system and application logs, and verifying completion of scheduled jobs such as backups.  Created, changed, and deleted user accounts per request.  Engineered and implemented Solarwinds Network Administration Toolkit which established a real time network  performance, asset control, hardware and software maintenance for all servers, desktops, network switches, and, integrated a built in trouble ticketing system. Information Systems Technician - E6 Naval Special Warfare Group One - Mobile Communications Team, U.S. Navy - Coronado, CA October 2000 to September 2007 As a Mobile Communications Team LPO, I led a team of highly trained communications specialists providing deployed  Navy SEAL Teams with full-spectrum mobile communications and computer network services.  Responsibilities included the end-to-end set- up and maintenance of unclassified and secret computer networks to support  mission planning and Tactical Operations Center (TOC) functions.  Access to the grid was achieved through portable VSAT satellite communications systems, including the SDN-Med, SDN-Heavy, and Global Broadcast System (GBS) terminals.  Radio communications in the VHF/UHF/UHF SATCOM/HF bands were achieved through a collection of man-portable  radios and field- expedient antenna systems. Education Associate of Science in Computer Information Systems Stanbridge College - Irvine, CA 2012 Microsoft Certified Information Technology Professional University of Phoenix - North Las Vegas, NV 2010 Skills Access control, Disaster recovery, Server administration, Security, Data integrity, Systems security, Asset management, Time management, Sop, Problem-solving Additional Information Skills  Excellent presentation, communication and interpersonal Network and Systems Security  skills Windows Server Administration  Effective team leader with strong analytical and problem Data Integrity / Disaster Recovery  solving abilities Technical Writing / SOP Creation  Outstanding analytical, problem-solving, and Regulatory Adherence  troubleshooting ability Network asset management  Passion for constant improvement Access Control and Network Surveillance Systems  Excellent time management skills