FastTrack Engineer FastTrack Engineer Microsoft Certified Professional (Bilingual) Charlotte, NC Microsoft Certified Professional with 14 years of IT experience in application, hardware and infrastructure support, specializing in Microsoft Office 365 planning, deployment and migration strategies. Languages: Spanish and English Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience FastTrack Engineer Microsoft / BluePrint - Charlotte, NC June 2019 to Present Serve as subject matter experts on various Microsoft 365 technologies.  • Help customers with Microsoft recommended set of onboarding processes.  • Help customers understand key success adoption factors.  • Coordinate and Conduct technical workshops & provide specific guidance.  • Provide remote support assistance in the success planning, development and implementation of Office 365 products and services.  • Provide available documentation and software tools, admin consoles, and scripts to provide guidance for users to reduce or eliminate configuration tasks, and success planning resources. Global IT Specialist IGM Resins, Inc. - Charlotte, NC February 2014 to June 2019 • Designed Office 365 global migration plan cutting IT expenses by 90% annually.  • Designed SharePoint Online sites, including global Intranet, pages and document libraries.  • Improved global access to data and reduced email traffic by implementing Microsoft Teams.  • Played a key role in successfully integrating IT systems with international acquisitions.  • Extensive hardware, application, network and global end-user 24-hour support.  • Managed relationships with 3rd party vendors and outsourced support.  • Office 365 and Azure AD Administrator, NAV, Dynamics AX, Microsoft Teams and SharePoint online. SWIFT Application Support Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC May 2012 to November 2013 • Supported the application development and integration of the SWIFT Network (Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication).  • Identified and resolved application issues in all phases of its development life cycle (SDLC) including systems integration Testing (SIT), user acceptance testing (UAT) and production environments.   • Maintained knowledge base of application testing, debugging and production implementations.  • Experience with SWIFT Alliance, implementing SWIFT services (SWIFTNet, FIN, Interact and Fileact) Assistant Systems Manager Norwegian Cruise Line, Inc - Miami, FL September 2011 to April 2012 • Maintained all IT systems onboard the vessel including PCs, applications, network devices, switches, WAPs, POS terminals, notebooks, network and local printers, scanners, PDA’s and tablets.  • Provided 24-hour mission critical systems support for all departments on board the vessel including the ship’s Napa Loading Computer for the Stability and Navigation of the ship.  • Weekly setup and support of high passenger impact systems (2800+ passengers)  • Daily use of Windows Server 2008, Active Directory, Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager, VMware, Trend Micro Antivirus, Symantec Backup Exec. Systems Lead Technician Security Information System, Inc - Orlando, FL August 2006 to September 2011 • Supported Windows Server 2003/SQL 2005 based Information Systems for multiple customers worldwide from initiation to deployment, including hardware and software configurations, rack configurations, on-site deployment and end user training. Included 70% travel.  • Implemented and streamlined the US Naval Emergency Response Management System for 3 separate regions (South East, South West and DC Region) with special attention to DIACAP Policies (Department of Defense Information Assurance Certification) to meet compliance and maintain authority to operate with the US Department of Defense.  • Developed and maintained company knowledge base for all system builds including pre and post checklists, network diagrams, site surveys, SOPs, system statuses and training material.  • Daily use of VMWare (application testing and debugging), SQL 2005 (extract, transform and load), Visio, Windows Server, Windows XP, Active Directory, SQL ODBC (rights and permissions), WebEx. Systems Administrator Main Street USA, Inc - Kissimmee, FL 2005 to 2006 • Provided technical support for all users and equipment, including computers, printers, network devices and user applications.   • Daily responsibilities included system access rights, network troubleshooting, software installation and configuration, computer maintenance, and resolving employee technical issues.  • Was also responsible for the creation and implementation of the company’s first website.  Systems Administrator/Web Developer London Study Centre - London 2005 to 2005 • Provided technical support for all users and equipment, including computers, printers, network devices and user applications. Extensive use of Active Directory.  • Daily responsibilities included resolving faculty and student’s technical issues including user account problems and software related issues.  • Content management and updating of the school’s existing websites. Education Bachelors of Science in Information Systems Florida State University - Tallahassee, FL 2003 to 2005 Associate of Arts in Management Information Systems Dade College - Miami, FL 1999 to 2002 Skills End-user Support (10+ years), Vendors (10+ years), Acquisitions (4 years), Cost Savings (8 years), Office 365 (4 years), Azure (3 years), Dynamics AX (4 years), Microsoft Teams (4 years), Sharepoint Designer (4 years), Telecommunications (6 years), SDLC (4 years), Testing (10+ years), It Project Management (8 years), It Service Management (10+ years), IT Management (8 years), SQL (8 years), Switches (10+ years), Help Desk, Comptia, Desktop Support, It Specialist, Information Technology, Secret Clearance, Computer Repair, Network Support, Tech Support, MSP, Active Directory, SCCM, System Administrator, Powershell Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/edgaravellan Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) Present Microsoft 365 Certified Fundamentals Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) Present Microsoft Certified Azure Fundamentals Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/q9a-x2vbfvzujuqw Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Operating Systems  • Experience planning, development and implementation of Microsoft 365 products and services.  • Experience implementing and managing Windows Server 2003/SQL2005 based Information Systems. Including system testing of hardware and software with focus on client objectives.  • Experience working with Windows Server 2000, 2003, 2008, Windows XP, 7 and 8, Windows 10.     Software and Applications  • Microsoft Office 365, SharePoint online, Microsoft Teams, Dynamics AX, Citrix Workspace.  • Experience providing Software and Application Support for Financial Institutions, Manufacturing, Travel and Tourism, Hospitality and Security Information Industries.   • Experience includes working with some of the following Industry leading applications: Alarm Center Software (Security), The DoD Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process (DIACAP); Fidelio, Micros (Travel and Tourism); Citrix, SWIFT Applications (the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication); vmWare vSphere (daily server and systems management); SQL2000, 2005 and 2008 (installation, application support, and database maintenance); Norton Ghost, Paragon and Acronis (imaging software for disaster recovery); MS Visio (creating drawings of networks and physical layouts); Dreamweaver (experience working with HTML and CSS); PC Anywhere and WebEx (remote desktop support); Adobe Photoshop (graphic designing); WordPress Content management system (Webdesign).