Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer - Storage and Data Protection • 9+ years of overall IT experience that includes implementation, administration, maintenance of large business critical backup systems which includes solutions like NetBackup, Avamar, etc. on Both Windows and UNIX (Solaris, Linux,) Platforms.  • 6+ years of experience in installing and configuring Data protection tools like Veritas NetBackup version 6.x, 7.x and 8.x,  • 2+ years of experience with EMC Data protection tools like Avamar Enterprise version 6.x and 7.x, Legato Networker versions 7.x and 8.x.  • 3+ years of experience for planning, implementation and administration of Code42 Endpoint Data protection 4.x, 5.x, 6.x and 7.x.  • Design and architecture of Code42 (Desktop Backup solutions) across the board, protecting over 100 thousand endpoint devices.  • Designing and performing proof of concepts for new backup applications like Cohesity.  • Experience with Enterprise Tape libraries and associated technologies IBM 3584, Sun StorageTek SL8500, SL700, SL500, IBM TS3500 tape library and Quantum ADIC i500, i2000 and all latest SILOs  • Experience in working on Data Domain models DD690, DD4500, DD7200, DD9300, DD9500 & DD9800  • Experience in configuring storage snapshots with various technologies like SnapVault, Snapmirror  • Installation, configurations and administration of different flavors of UNIX operating system on the new NetBackup master/media servers. Also does installation of VERITAS Clusters and VERITAS volume managers for high performance and availability  • Responsible for monitoring and completion of all incoming backup and restore incident and service request workload to the required SLAs  • Configurations of backups using latest de-duplication appliances like Data Domain and integrating it with different data protection solutions  • Performance tuning and troubleshooting and system related log analysis from OS, Software (Veritas NetBackup, EMC Avamar, and SnapVault) and Hardware perspective Work Experience Systems Engineer Storage and Data Protection January 2012 to Present Cisco Systems, CA  Responsibilities:    • Day-to-Day operations, implementations and configuration of media and master servers, hardware and software troubleshooting, new device configurations.  • Strong experience on NetBackup, Avamar, Cohesity, Code42 and Legato Networker with their command line usage.  • Integrated Data Domain with Veritas NetBackup and configured DDBoost on approx. 130 media servers.  • Responsible for installing and configuring 15+ Data Domains in our backup environment following an effort to replace Quantum PTLs and NetApp VTLs.  • Experience in Installation, Configuration & Administration of Veritas NetBackup on all UNIX Platforms.  • Experience with DDOS versions 5.X/6.X which includes OS upgrades, cleaning, STU configurations, Replication configurations, NFS/CIFS/Mtree/Snapshot/Replication and preparing post implementation tasks and then testing. and troubleshooting.  • Configuration of Data Domains, Media server deduplication pools (MSDP) and Advanced Disks on Solaris, Storage Life Cycle policies on Unix and RHEL media servers.  • Implementation and Operation of SnapVault Backups for backing up business critical NetApp storage arrays.  • Performing proof of concept to various backup solutions.  • Worked on projects for automation of various backup, storage provisioning and restore tasks.  • Hands-on expertise with software upgrade of Veritas NetBackup, Cohesity, Code42 and Data domains.  • Configured the Robots, Tape drives and Volume pools for EMC EDL (VTL) DL4206 and DL4200.  • Very good Knowledge with SAN, NAS Technologies of organization, especially EMC and NetApp in relation to a data protection environment.  • Configuring and enabling various business critical database backups which includes Oracle RMAN, Microsoft SQL, Mongo DB, SAP Hana, Cassandra etc.  • Experience on NDMP backups using SnapVault.  • Application of latest Maintenance Packages to stay updated.  • Experience with end to end configuration of Oracle RMAN backups, VMWare backups and SQL Server backups.  • Good in Shell scripting for automating various tasks, reporting and health checks related to backup  • Experience in performing jumpstart, PXE boots for fresh OS installations for RHEL 5.x, 6.x, 7.x and CentOS.  • Experience with volume management and RAID set up.  • Experience working with NetBackup using SAN media servers and Shared Storage Option (SSO).  • Troubleshooting routine critical issues including threshold optimization, server throughput, ports availability, meeting zoning requirements, one-path down, enabling the path on source or destination arrays, data not migrated, host not seeing storage and storage management problems.  • Having experience handling emergency scenarios like DD Capacity management, working and handling NetBackup images where we need to duplicate, extend or expire images depending upon the requirements.  • Performance tuning and troubleshooting and system related log analysis from OS, Software (VERITAS NetBackup) and Hardware perspective.  • Create and maintain necessary documentation and procedures in support of the backup infrastructure.  • Day to day operation of SnapVault backup and restoration, providing snapshot based data protection.  • Had experience with installation and administration of EMC Networker 7.6.  • Having strong experience of on-premise deployment, installation and setting up Endpoint backup solution CrashPlan - Code42 with a huge backup footprint of 12+ PB of data with 200K plus Employees PC/Laptops backing up globally.  • Having experience in setting up multi-authority for CrashPlan.  • Having experience in managing Code42 backup capacity which includes adding and configuring more Storage nodes to the existing set-up of 80+ Cisco UCS S3260 servers.  • Running weekly reports/dashboards for all the crucial metrics.  • Creating CR (Change Requests) before quarter end for achieving the firmware upgrades for all our data domain devices across the board during production.  • Creating technical documentations for internal employee support community.  • Weekly Vendor meetings discussing more on future road maps and newer products.  • Creating DCM (Data Center Capacity Management) entries for fresh installs in the data centers.  • Creating SFT Requests (Strategic Fullfilment Team) for engaging various data center teams (Rack-Stack-Patch, Compute, Networking etc) for installing new devices.  • Good understanding of impact and importance of storage services to customers.  • Ability to communicate clear and concise information in support of team and firm goals.  • Strong written & verbal communication skills with the ability to analyze documents and resolve problems.  • Responsible for setting up replication over WAN using Data Domain native replication.  • Environmental oversight and root cause analysis for stability and reliability issues and timely resolution or escalation  • Experience in installing and configuring Netapp Virtual tape libraries (VTL 700)  • Experience in configuring replication DR sites with Avamar backup infrastructure.  • Experience in perform AER (Avamar Extended Retention), which is basically moving the data from disks media to tape media for archiving purpose and longer data retention.  • Very good knowledge of configuring OpsCenter.  • Configured catalog backup and duplicate using Vault on a daily basis and send media offsite for disaster discovery.  • Experience in working with service ticketing tools like Service Now, JIRA and BMC Remedy.    EXPERIENCE Unix/Linux/NetBackup Administrator XL Telecom Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2006 to April 2010 India  Responsibilities:  • Installation, configuration and maintenance of Linux and Solaris for production servers.  • Assisted team in handling issues reported on daily basis.  • Document fixes to common problems to provide resources for the team.  • Helping clients patch up their NetBackup edition to the latest patch level to resolve the discrepancies with the previous NetBackup edition /patch level.  • Monitored backup servers and media storage devices  • Strong Experience in migrating NetBackup from Windows 2003 Enterprise Server to Solaris9.  • Upgraded VERITAS NetBackup 4.5 to 5.1 by checking database inconsistency  • Strong Experience with IBM Tape Library and HP Storage Works Tape Library.  • Verify, duplicate, expire and import Backup Images as per requirement.  • Strong experience in configuring Tape drives with Shared Storage Option (SSO).  • Daily Backup Monitoring report generation and Initial Troubleshooting.  • Taking catalog Backup on daily basis in case of disaster recovery.  • Configured NetBackup with DB2 and SQL Server Backups.  • Coordinated all upgrades across all multiple data center.  • Prepared and maintained documentation for monitoring, operational and diagnostic procedures.  • Configured Storage Units, Staging storage unit and Volume Pools.  • Preparing backup success and failure reports on daily basis.  • Disk Staging, Designing Policies, Media and Device Management.  • Catalog Consistency Check. NDMP Configuration. Configuring NetBackup parameters.  • Database consistency check.  • Install and Configuring VERITAS Cluster for High performance data protection.  • Configuring, monitoring and troubleshoot clients and as well as the NetBackup Infrastructure servers.  • Experience in SAN, NAS Technologies, Especially EMC and NetApp in relation to a data protection environment.  • Configuring robots, tape drives storage units and volumes pools.  • Monitoring tape drives and tape usage.  • Integrating NetBackup to run with Oracle Backups and Exchange Server Backups.  • Strong Experience in troubleshooting RMAN scripts for Oracle Database backup through NetBackup.  • Assisted team with resolution of reported problems.  • Restore files and monitor restore jobs.  • Prepare and maintain documentation for monitoring, operational and diagnostic procedures. Education MS in Computer Science in Computer Science International Technological University - San Jose, CA B-Tech in Electronics and Communication in Electronics and Communication Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana Diploma in Electronics and Comm in Engg Q.Q Govt. Polytechnic Skills Hp-ux, Ux, Solaris, Unix, Netbackup, Veritas, Aix