UNIX/Linux Systems Administrator UNIX/Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> UNIX/Linux Systems Administrator - Adaptik Corporation Pittsburgh, PA • Over 10+ Years of experience in N-Tier Web Application, Client/Server, and Windows Applications development employing Object Oriented Analysis and Design ( OOAD ) using Microsoft T  • Strong in Web Technologies like JQuery, JavaScript, Web Services, HTML, XML, XSL, XSD, DTD, XML Schemas, CSS, MVC, HTML5 & CSS3.  • Good experience in developing desktop applications using Windows Forms.  • Good understanding of Enterprise technologies like WCF, Web Services (SOAP, WSDL) in the areas of performance, security, scalability and extensibility.  • Expertise in developing models based on Unified Modeling Language (UML).  • Have demonstrated ability to leverage High-level Design Documents to produce Detailed-level Designs.  • Strong experience in customized search , indexing, uploading, re-indexing, deletion of documents in the workflow on UniSys InfoImage using APIs, and calling COM Objects in ASP.NET MVC5.  • Strong skills on .NET Framework using MVC5, ASP.NET, C#, VB.NET and ADO.NET.  • Experience in mobile development using MVC5, JQuery,AngularJS,CSS3, and Html5  • Excellent understanding of Object Oriented Programming Methodology and MVC, MVP, and MVVM Design Patterns in the IT industry.  • Expertise in industry Standard System Analysis techniques such as Data Modeling, Process Modeling and Data flow diagramming.  • Sound knowledge of Generics and LINQ.  • Experience in writing the SQL Server 2008/2005 stored procedure, Functions, Views, Triggers and database administrative tasks like backup, restore and SQL profiling.  • Expertise in writing web services and business logic components based on design specifications from the requirements documents.  • Configured and integrated Microsoft Enterprise Library 5.0 with Web Applications.  • Expertise in various development architectures like Desktop, Console and Web Application.  • Good knowledge and experience in implementing Entity Frame Work.  • Good experience in using SFTP for automated file transfers via Windows Service.  • Expertise in working with MVC 4.0,.NET 3.5, 3.0, 2.0, 1.1, 1.0 Framework.  • Extensive experience in handling IIS in Website Deployment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UNIX/Linux Systems Administrator Adaptik Corporation - Bethlehem, PA November 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Installed, configured linux(6.4) and Solaris 10 operating system on x86 architecture, using interactive method, jumpstart and graphical user interface (GUI).  • Hardened operating system by installing 10_Recommended patches, monitor the server by using snoop / tcpdump, Disabled services in a bid to minimize and or eliminate unauthorized server access.  • Administered user's accounts on all servers for both software development team and systems engineering team. Configured user profiles, troubleshoot and resolved user login problems  • Configured network settings for both physical and virtual servers (Bond). Troubleshoot server network connectivity  • Installed configured and cloned Solaris zones and migrated Solaris zones to different servers  • Experienced with zpool including creating, scrubbing, replacing disks, adding space, importing and exporting zpools  • Created, set mount-points and mounted ZFS for users. Setup ZFS quotas, reservation and automatic NFS-share of directories.  • Monitor system processes, load averages and general health of systems. Conducted root password recovery, reset on inaccessible servers.  • Configured DNS client on Solaris Zones and servers. Upgraded and or delete DNS entry/record on DNS server. Used nslookup to query dns servers and obtain server/device fully qualified domain name (FQDN).  • Perform daily onsite and remote network support for various business clients  • Controlled the System Logging services, and examining system Log Files of all system events  • Developed bash scripting for automating administration tasks like customizing user environment, and performance monitoring and tuning  • Troubleshoot and analysis of hardware and software failures for various Solaris and Linux servers (core dump and log file analysis).  • Managed VMware and create virtual machines for developers whenever required  • Installed and configured packages for Solaris and Linux servers such as Apache, MySQL and Samba  • Installed VERITAS Volume Manager. Created disk groups, configured raid 1, raid 5 and mirrored volumes. Replaced failing disk in disk group.  • Participated in on-call rotation to provide 24X7 technical supports as well as attended calls related to customer queries and complaints offering them relevant solutions.  • Puppet configuration and deployment Unix/Linux Systems Administrator Trinitech Consulting Inc - Beltsville, MD May 2016 to October 2018 Responsibilities:  • Builds, Install, configure brand new virtual and physical servers, test, deploy RHEL 6 and 7, CentOS 6.4 servers to the network: OS installation and configuration - standard and advanced (net installation and jumpstart, kickstart).  • Harden operating system by installing recommended patches, monitor the servers by using tcpdump, disable services in a bid to minimize and or eliminate unauthorized server access.  • Created YUM Server, Automated rpm updates on multiple clients with appropriate Target version.  • and use SSH Tunnels with Local and Remote Port forwarding to access remote Systems.  • Configuring EMC and NetApp SAN Storage on Linux Operating System using Linux Native Multipathing.  • Create volumes and administered SVM. Creating Meta devices, soft partitions and mirroring the devices.  • Setup NFS File Systems and shared them for Clients, Maintenance of NFS Server with Auto Mounts.  • Configure and update, the Apache server.  • Monitoring System performance using iostat, vmstat, TOP and SAR. •Providing solutions to client about Disk mirroring and RAID implementation using LVM.  • Shell scripting (bash) to schedule and automate processes including full and incremental backups using tar and star; migrate and enlarge file systems on Red hat 6,7 and CentOS 6,7.  • Responsible for data management using Red hat and CentOS utilities for archiving, compression backup and restore.  • Supporting system users and troubleshooting system issues. Document solutions for future reference  • Installing and maintaining the operating system and related software products.  • Participating in root-cause analysis of recurring issues, system backup and security setup.  • Provide 24X7 support in Production Testing and Development environments.  • nstalled and configured databases on Unix/Linux platforms.  • Perform multiplatform volume management using LVM.  • Troubleshoot Red hat and CentOS issues emanating from hardware and software related and configuration issues.  • Virtualization (VMware Esxi 5, 5.5 and Oracle Virtual Box). Senior C#/.Net Developer MediMedia - Carlstadt, NJ June 2012 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  • Converted portal from earlier versions to ASP.NET 3.5 and SQL Server 2008. Enhanced the portal to add more functionality, increase user experience and improve navigation.  • Took active part in full development life-cycle (SDLC) for the enhancements that involved analysis, design, coding and testing.  • Performed design using Object Oriented (OO) principles and created various abstract and concrete classes and interfaces. Followed agile principles during design and development activities.  • Developed new functionality using ASP.NET 3.5 Server Side controls, Infragistics and Telerik controls. Coded business logic in middle tier using VB.NET  • Used ADO.NET objects such as Data Reader, Dataset and Data Adapter for consistent access to SQL data sources.  • Used LINQ to SQL Feature of .Net Framework for retrieving data from SQL Server.  • Created User controls, comprised of AJAX extender controls, and server controls for reusability.  • Created custom classes for on the fly thumbnail generation, and for populating datasets from database.  • Used sitemap provider to define the navigation.  • Used membership and role provider for authentication and authorization.  • Designed and created Relational database tables using Normalization, Managed clustered and non-clustered indexes and implemented Relationships b/w tables.  • Created Store Procedures, Functions, Packages, Triggers, Indexes and Views using T-SQL in Development and Production environment for SQL Server 2008.  • Created ETL package using SSIS 2008 to populate the data in the tables.  • Performed Unit Testing for all units in developed pages using NUnit Tool. Involved Unit Testing,  • Integration Testing and Regression testing in a regular basis to improve the performance of the Application.  • Fixed the errors in the batches by retriggering various steps like classification, Classification Edit, SQC validation, and image enhancement to expedite CAPTIVA Batch Processing.  • Managed Image Enhancement, multi, image, multi directory watch, dispatcher image classification, and Image recognition services to keep captive up and running. Sr. .Net Developer UCLA - Riverside, CA March 2009 to May 2012 Responsibilities:  • Understanding and reviewing the existing applications and involved with the Business team and implemented the tasks as per the Priority of Business Requirement.  • Used SCRUM methodology for iterative task completion by having Daily Stand-ups.  • Created UI layers, Webpages and integrated to maintain the performance of Data flow and Data Integrity using Asp.Net, Widget Grids and other User Controls.  • Designed and developed web forms with ASP.NET, JavaScript, Silverlight, jQuery, JSON, HTML, XHTML, CSS, and Firebug.  • Developed service contract, operation contract & data contract classes to support communication between Agents to Insure.NET using Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) through WCF web services through C#.NET.  • Used Ajax, JQuery, JavaScript, CSS and various web controls to present data to users in a much comfortable environment.  • Worked with WPF 4.0 for creating user rich interfaces for windows applications  • Worked with Model View Controller (MVC) pattern to design layers.  • Created snapshots by using WPF(Windows Presentation Foundation) for requirement phase and used SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS)  • Used Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), HTML to attain uniformity of all web pages.  • Used JQuery for client side validation, navigation and for firing server side events. Education Bachelor's