Deployment Engineer Deployment Engineer Deployment Engineer Huron, OH To use my skills and knowledge in a fast-paced, positive work environment while implementing my project management and other previous computer helpdesk and marketing experience. (4 years of experience); to complete projects in a team oriented setting. And to achieve 110% customer satisfaction.    Wanting to relocate to Columbus or Athens Ohio Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Deployment Engineer Accellis Technology Group - Cleveland, OH February 2019 to Present Responsible for deployments for the 280 client sites that are serviced from California to Massachusetts. Responsible for documenting and detecting new and existing issues with clients and Windows based operating systems. Working with Microsoft Office 365 deployment and admin suites. Responsible for exchange, domain, and virtual servers for all client sites. Experience working with Bomgar and Automate Deployment systems. Experience with using Microsoft Deployment Toolkit for image creation. Basic script and PowerShell creation. Creating new workflow documentation for new clients and establishing new partnerships with Law firms and health care companies. IT facility Infrastructure Administrator Parker Hannifin - Elyria, OH June 2018 to February 2019 Responsible for all IT related projects in government secured facility, assets, repairs, backups, software installs, hardware installs, IT security administration, IT procurement, responsible for weekly, quarterly and annual facility reviews and security checklists. Systems Analyst MCPc, Inc. November 2017 to February 2019 Rotational systems analyst for MCPC job responsibilities include ticketing, computer repair, networking support, help desk support, traveling to worksites and great customer service! Contracts involving School administrative support during Air Testing, Hospital Helpdesk support, and office moves. System Analyst Firelands Regional Medical Center - Sandusky, OH August 2017 to June 2018 Working with clinical teams, for operations like remote desktop, server virtualization, clinical software and hardware trouble shooting IT Manager Prokos Rentals August 2015 to June 2016 At Prokos Rentals I helped set up online marketing techniques for this new developing company, I also managed the IT aspect of the main office. Laptop repairs, Desktop repairs, Remote desktop protocol, Resetting passwords and more. Top Sales Consultant Best Buy - Sandusky, OH Working hard in a competitive market, along with working one on one with customers and large organizations. Top sales consultant for two consecutive months in areas including digital imaging and computers. Extensive knowledge about customer support and troubleshooting for computers and Microsoft applications. Volunteer NSCC Naval sea cadet corps  Working with navy personnel in a first class naval environment, including working with modern technology including the new types of Airplanes, Naval ships and training    Business Professionals of America  Business professionals of America provides younger generation students with an ability to dive into a business working environment. It educates and leads these students on careers that can include business administration, accounting and executive positions.    What do I plan to achieve?    As a support analyst I want to help as many people as I possibly can, by using my administrative skills and my tech experience I believe that I could work in a team environment very efficiently. Organization and documentation is a must! I hope to gain extensive knowledge of customer service based sectors, and I’m always willing to put forth my best effort! Education Associate in Computer Networking Alison Online School May 2016 to February 2019 Associate in Project Management Alison Skills Computer Hardware (4 years), Office Management (2 years), Customer Service (5 years), Marketing (3 years), Customer Relations (2 years), Website Development (2 years), Inventory Management (2 years), It Service Management (4 years), Computer Repair (5 years), Administrative Support, IT Project Management (4 years), Active Directory, security, LAN, Networking, VPN, firewalls, Customer Support, Desktop Support, Tech Support, Service Desk, Helpdesk Support, SCCM Awards Runner up for Computer networking Second place in computer networking in competition between 30 competing schools in northern Ohio Certifications/Licenses Server administration Present Server administration certificate from Microsoft Network Security Present Network security essentials from Microsoft Operating system fundamentals Present From Microsoft Networking Fundamentals Present Networking Fundamentals from Microsoft Introduction to information Systems Present Introduction to business information systems from the School of Business and Trade from SoBaT Haus, Luzern, Switzerland Groups Business Professionals Of America August 2015 to June 2016 Business professionals of America empowers young adults to make advances in the business technology, and related fields it allows students to make connections with professionals in the field and prepare them-self with business practices. Additional Information Training in "WannaCry” Virus, Trojan Horses And Ransomware