Senior Director of Information Technology Senior Director of Information Technology Enterprise Infrastructure & Applications - Director | Architect | Engineer Lantana, TX Lead Linux, VMware, Network Security, Windows Engineering teams - latest initiatives including web server migrations from IBM iSeries to Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7/8, load balancers, SELinux, NGINX WAF/Reverse Proxy, Cisco to Palo Alto virtual firewalls, VMware EXSi/SRM, Dell EMC VxRail, Event Tracker SIEM, SAN upgrades, datacenter migrations, Network and Server security upgrades, Proofpoint email security and email encryption, AWS, Atlassian products (Jira Software, Jira ServiceDesk, Confluence, Bitbucket, Bamboo), CrowdStrike next-gen endpoint protection, Sophos full disk encryption, Knowbe4 security/phishing awareness training, Okta IAM/SSO  • DevOps with exposure to Ansible, bash scripting, Red Hat / CentOS Linux, Apache, LAMP, SQL, SDLC, CAB, Agile, Jira.   • Level 1 PCI-DSS compliance and audits, HIPPA, as well as ecommerce and Cybersecurity. Rapid7 vulnerability scanning/security scans/remediation. Disaster recovery and business continuity planning and testing.   • Red Hat / CentOS Linux system administration, security patching, OS upgrades, troubleshooting problems, and ensuring maximum availability. Plan and implement architectural infrastructure solutions for new systems  • Maintain, monitor, and support complex, mission-critical software systems in an operational 24x7 enterprise environment  • Work with the CTO, Legal/Compliance Departments and other departments on compliance/security needs of organization.  • Attracting, developing and retaining high performing teams, offer ongoing feedback, professional growth opportunities and overall career guidance Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Director of Information Technology MADD - Irving, TX March 2007 to March 2018 October 2015 - March 2018 Director of Information Technology July 2011 to September 2015 Perform an integral senior director of IT role with increasing responsibilities for all aspects of IT operations for the entire organization. Earned consistent promotion based on performance in previous technology leadership role. Administer leadership and supervision to IT enterprise infrastructure, application systems, operations, budgets, and services teams. Direct, coordinate, integrate, and implement latest and emerging technologies across the non-profit organization. Evaluate and implement technology solutions, while administering security, systems development & analysis, application support, and ancillary IT operations.  ? Seamlessly transitioned a CRM from Blackbaud ? SalesForce, managing full responsibilities of user data migration, donation processing, event management, website, tributes system, advocacy emails, and marketing emails  ? Succeeded in migrating physical infrastructure to Azure cloud environment; manage teams regarding Office 365 Exchange, SharePoint, and One Drive  ? Display unsurpassed leadership through strategic technology roadmap planning, advocating and promoting data management best practices, developing robust applications, and measuring system performances  ? Capitalize on management abilities to drive partner selection and performance measurement, manage contracts and SLAs, improve business processes, and standardize IT operations, including computers and networks  ? Manage hiring and training functions, staff career development, succession planning, employee engagement, and enhancing leadership skills, all aspects of IT capabilities, and oversight of outsourcing projects to reduce overall costs    • Lead cross-divisional teams and drive organizational collaboration while optimizing processes within departments  • Evaluate, centralize & digitize programs and migrate legacy systems to SalesForce  • Coach, guide, and mentor software application & database developers on various projects; hired & trained IT staff  • Supervise upgrades and maintenance of SQL servers as well as enterprise infrastructure migration to Cloud  • Centralized multiple disparate DB's for improving reporting and analytics    Facilitate a focus on high-priority information technology initiatives with new governance standards/prioritization, improving reliability, security, and redundancy with maximum uptime of information systems. Provide oversight in IT operations, along with management of information technology budget, purchasing, risk management, and project management. Oversaw mobile payment processing for events, and successfully migrated accounting, payroll, HR software, and system vendors.  ? Slashed recurring internet costs utilizing various strategies including efficiently utilizing Exinda WAN optimization and Mushroom bandwidth aggregation devices  ? Envisioned a 3-year technology advancement plan across 65 field offices, implementing VPN to HQ from all 65 MADD Office locations - Centralized phone systems, enabling over $300,000 in savings every year  ? Succeeded in deploying a new centralized service desk and software deployment systems, upgrading switches, firewalls, WAN optimization, and link optimization equipment, thus reducing interdepartmental silos  ? Project managed successful migration of corporate email and file server to Office 365 Exchange/SharePoint, thus increasing uptime and mobile access    • Administered firewall standardization at all 65 MADD locations  • Oversaw successful implementation of an electronic contract management and routing solution  • Implemented email archive server (legal compliance initiative)  • Centralize & migrate servers to Hyper-V virtualization/Dell Equallogic SANs IT Manager MADD - Irving, TX October 2008 to June 2011 Combined strengths in technology planning, operating standards and procedures, and IT infrastructure to impact cost reductions and resource maximization. Supervised all IT operations, shouldered networking and server management duties, and functioned as the central repository for technical advice and solutions regarding network systems, hardware, and software troubleshooting.  ? Administered IT budget and planned technology equipment upgrades and replacements; strengthened caliber and quality of IT department, operations, project management, and infrastructure, while overseeing a technical team  ? Hired and trained IT staff, and administered systems and network installations, along with technical systems and projects  ? Structured information system policies and procedures; instituted IT training programs; and evaluated emerging technologies, products, and services, along with standardizing IT Service Desk processes and procedures  ? Upgraded SANs, switches, and firewall equipment, and SQL servers, along with handling exchange server migrations    Pivotal technology projects included:  • Migration & Upgrades - Windows Server, Network Equipment, Office Wide Wireless Solutions, WSUS, printer server, and Hyper-V server virtualization  • Successfully deployed computer image servers, and backup servers/software  • Improved staff efficiency through computer refresh rotation    Additional Work History Systems/Network Administrator MADD - Irving, TX March 2007 to September 2008 Systems Administrator Burkburnett Independent School District (BISD) - TX November 2003 to March 2007 Education Bachelor of Business Administration in (BBA) Business Computer Information Systems Midwestern State University Skills Saas, Deployment, Iaas, Re-engineering, Project leadership, Training, Budget, Best practices, Due diligence, Client communication, Application support, Budget management, Team building, Relationship building, Quality assurance, Articulate, Business requirements, Translating, Linux (5 years) Certifications/Licenses Red Hat Certified System Administrator (RHCSA) August 2019 to August 2022 AWS Certified Cloud Practioner May 2018 to May 2021 CompTIA Linux+ XK0-004 - latest version 2019 CompTIA Network+ Present MCSE Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer Server 2003 Additional Information Core Competencies    Leadership & Management  • Project Leadership/Management  • Technology Direction/Consulting  • Global Team Building  • Cross Functional Collaboration  • Stakeholder/Client Engagements  • Consensus/Relationship Building  • Client Communication Strategy  Operational Excellence  • Business Process Re/Engineering  • Training and Development  • Budget Management  • Service/Partner Selection  • Industry & Market Trend Analysis  Technology Expertise  • Application Support  • Enterprise Infrastructure Roadmaps  • Technology Migration/Deployment  • Cloud Transformations Strategy  • Quality Assurance/Best Practices  • Cloud (SaaS, DRaaS, IaaS) services  Interpersonal Communications  • Strategic Negotiations  • Relationship Building  • Effective Communications    ? Enable business growth via discovering cost-effective and well-designed solutions, and promoting adoption of Cloud (SaaS, DRaaS, IaaS) services - Trusted technology advisor to cross-functional teams and leadership, thus achieving results based on unique business strategy and desired outcomes  ? Cultivate dynamic, complex applications from ideation-to-implementation, as well as re-engineering existing apps, thus project managing all aspects of migration and deployment initiatives with precision and accuracy  ? Advanced expertise in translating business requirements into an actionable Cloud/IT strategy, implementation activities, and aiding the organization in driving these initiatives to early results, thus generating business value  ? In-depth knowledge of future technology and operational trends, related to business requirements - Proficiency in new technology introductions, pillar application roadmaps, and next generation technology direction  ? Commercially engaged technology strategist, talented at propelling the IT enterprise infrastructure strategy, planning & roadmap, while integrating divergent systems, and technology process refinements  ? Value conscious vendor manager - Persuasive and influential negotiator, active cost manager, and business process optimizer - Manage relationships with skill, due diligence, and an uncommon degree of professionalism  ? Articulate communicator, transcends barriers between technology, creativity, and business, aligning each to capture the highest potential of the organization, resources, and technology investments