Field Technician Field Technician Field Technician Eldorado, IL Over twenty years of Windows PC experience troubleshooting software, builds and upgrades and working in networked environments. Several years of Windows Server, Linux Server, and Unix Server installation, configuration, and administration. Several years of experience with POS systems, printer service, low voltage cabling, and surveillance systems. Strong customer service background. Certified MCSA, A+ and HP Professional. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Field Technician FieldNation.com October 2014 to Present Troubleshoot and repair LCD TV's. Troubleshoot and repair of Moore and Xerox pressure sealer/folder/printer systems for Ceridian. Laser printer and dot matrix printer service and repairs. Install and De install POS systems at Adidias and Walmart. Low Voltage cabling and install video camera and surveillance equipment at Bellow Air Force Station, Bed Bath and Beyond, Victoria Secret and Pink. Diagnose and repair failed server power supply and hard drive at The Hartford. SonicWall installation and oversee circuit cutover at Aqua Queen Kapiolani Hotel. PC, tablet and printer support at Louis Vuitton. Field Technician FieldNation & WorkMarket - Eldorado, IL November 2007 to Present Install and De install POS systems at Navy Exchange, Victoria Secret, Walmart, Ross Dress for Less, Kate Spade, and Lucky Brand Jeans, and, Printer installations at the Body Shop and Louie Vitton, Kiosk upgrades at Kinkos, Pressure Troubleshoot and repair of Moore and Xerox pressure sealer/folder/printer systems for Ceridian, RAID removal from California Pizza Kitchen. Systems Administrator A Aloha Paradise Realty - Honolulu, HI December 2007 to April 2018 Installation and management of Windows Server 2000 and 2K3. Setup, management and support of office PCs, printers, VOIP, WiFi, cell phones and routers. Train office staff in use of Microsoft Office Suite and office equipment. Remote Desktop support for off-site staff. Handle phone calls from prospects and tenants and receive of rent from tenants when office staff are busy. Manage and coordinate maintenance staff for daily tasks on 60 apartments. Systems Administrator It's All About Kids - ‘Aiea, HI September 2007 to October 2007 Active Directory administration. Developed sysprep and static image for deployment on 500 laptops. Wireless configuration. Modified GPO's to use WSUS and strengthen security settings. Managed Cisco switch and router for VoIP and data via T1 and DSL connections. Printer and PC Technician Michigan Business Systems - Southfield, MI February 2005 to June 2007 Onsite printer technician. Install and configure network for new copiers. PC troubleshooting and repair. Systems Administrator Promotive Engineering - Troy, MI January 2002 to March 2004 Data Management: Optimize data structures, FTP data transfers with suppliers, data and backup solutions, daily mirroring of supplier databank, setup and use of Autoweb w/T1, data translation with UG, IGES, and CATIA files. JPEG and TIFF image format and editing. Upgrade UG v16 - v20, UNIX server and workstation administration, service and support SGI, SUN, office computers, plotter, laser, injet and thermal printers. Solely responsible for purchase, installation, setup, build and troubleshooting of 24 Windows XP CAD workstations, Windows Server 2003, and Gigabit Ethernet network addition to the office. Owner - PC Technician and Sales Tailored Computer Services - Hazel Park, MI January 1996 to December 2001 PC and printer sales, customer service and PC support. Assembly and testing of sold PCs. Setup and service of LAN hardware, software and cabling. On-site service for home and business customers. Computer upgrade evaluations. Ran CAT5 to server, hubs and switches. PC Technician Family Computer Store - Orion, MI April 1996 to December 1998 Business and personal PC and printer sales, service and support. Provided the setup and service of LAN/WAN hardware, software and cabling for customers. Assembly and testing of all PCs sold at the store. Provided onsite 24-7 service for home and business customers. Setup of personal firewalls, anti-virus software, operating systems, web browsers, telecommunication systems and web development tools. Computer upgrade evaluations, backup services for network servers and Ethernet and thin-client experience. Education None in Electrical Engineering GMI Engineering and Management Inst. Flint - Flint, MI June 1990 to September 1992 Skills Maintenance, Troubleshooting, Networking, Microsoft Word, MS Office