Network Engineer (Journeyman) Network Engineer (Journeyman) Waldorf, MD Work Experience Network Engineer (Journeyman) Leidos - Andrews AFB, MD December 2018 to Present Analyzes organization's needs, conducts technical research, and implements appropriate solutions to meet Government needs and comply with established standards. Ensures high availability of critical applications and servers while meeting or exceeding Service Level Agreements (SLA). Supports development and integration of applications and infrastructure services. Supports efforts with network design and technical direction.  • Assists with network coordination, identify flaws and resolve system integration issues.  • Monitors and reports Enterprise WAN bandwidth utilization and circuit latency.  • Conducts system analyses to resolve configuration and equipment problems.  • Interfaces with third party vendors to assist with problem resolution.  • Serves as focal point for problem resolution for AFNCR Enterprise network issues. System Administrator Washington Planning Center/NAVSEA, Washington Navy Yard, Wash DC October 2016 to December 2018 LEIDOS  Responsible for installation, configuration, administration, support and maintenance of systems, including associated hardware. Duties include updating to new system software and configurations, as well as support on current systems by tuning performance, and working with the Cyber Security team to ensure that all updates to these accredited systems are applied.  • Configure networking devices for testing with SPAWAR and NAVAIR for fleet implementation.  • Ensure that the critical systems are available, maintained and updated so that customers can achieve their mission.  • Assist with network security through the implementation of STIGs and actively maintain IAVA compliance.  • Provide support services such as data protection (backup and systems security), Active Directory, Group Policy management, DHCP, DNS and other server/network application services.  • Assist with configuration, maintenance, monitoring, and troubleshooting of multiple internal networks. Various Locations- Computer Systems Analyst II HQ Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA), Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling October 2014 to October 2016 LEIDOS  Provide assistance with hands-on and remote day-to-day network administration, operation, engineering and troubleshooting for internal and enterprise devices. Network solutions for multiple classified and unclassified IP networks in a mixed fiber-optic and copper-wired environment. Provide first level troubleshooting of hardware or software on client systems. Interface with customer and provides resolution to service requests, updates and/or forwards trouble tickets to responsible group for problem resolution.  • Install programs, configures end user systems to comply with agency policy. Replace client systems and performs replacement of equipment as necessary.  • Maintain and support network communications devices, including video teleconferencing equipment, Voice over IP (VoIP) telephony, and other communications equipment.  • Assist with the collection of information for data calls and portfolio management of network hardware, software & licensing.  • Support account creations, resetting passwords, troubleshooting systems and network problems. Network Technician - part-time Defense Information Systems Agency - Fort Meade, MD November 2013 to November 2014 NOVA Corporation  Analyzed local and wide area network systems (LAN/WANs), including planning, evaluating, selecting operating systems and protocol suites and configuring communication media with concentrators, bridges and other devices.  • Resolved interoperability problems to obtain operation across all platforms including e-mail, files transfer, multimedia, teleconferencing, etc.  • Configured systems to user environments.  • Utilized monitoring tools such as: HP SiteScope, NETCOOL, and Net IQ AppMgr for tier -1/2 support.  • Implemented security concepts associated with this position in a 24/7 environment. Deskside Support/ Systems Administrator National Geospatial Intelligence Agency (NGA) September 2013 to May 2014 BAE SYSTEMS  Performed system software upgrades including planning and scheduling, testing, and coordination. Load/ build operating systems on the Windows7 platform. Performed security hardening verification and reporting on laptops using retina security scanner.  • Performed workstation and server administration setup.  • Monitored and maintain continuity with system software licensing and maintenance agreements.  • Maintained ghosting images of server and workstation builds. Network Technician - part-time Defense Information Systems Agency - Fort Meade, MD December 2012 to November 2013 ALTA IT Services  Coordinated the network performance and security in a 24/7 environment. Synchronized network and system maintenance with tier 2/3 enterprise support.  • Utilized monitoring tools such as: HP SiteScope, NETCOOL, and Net IQ AppMgr for tier -1/2 support.  • Monitored and logged all daily operations.  • Provided Help Desk support and resolved problems to the end user's satisfaction.  • Performed Active Directory duties such as: Reset pw, enable/ disable users, and unlock users' accounts. Systems Administrator HQ Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA), Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling July 2011 to October 2012 BAE SYSTEMS  Provided assistance in the Global Systems Operational Center (GSOC) with 24/7 monitoring of enterprise applications, systems, and core services to include file servers, exchange servers, web server and storage servers.  • Solved problems such as low disk space, restarting services and web applications.  • Conducted daily IT operations along with tier -1/2 support for a large enterprise level network.  • Monitored servers on multiple networks with SCOM, Tivoli, and WhatsUp Gold.  • Ran UNIX scripts per engineers to remediate applications such AMHS and MIDB. Systems Administrator HQ Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA), Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling September 2008 to July 2011 General Dynamics  Supported the Global Systems Operational Center (GSOC) with 24/7 monitoring of enterprise applications, systems and core services to include file, exchange, and web servers.  • Performed a wide range of activities that contributed to planning, monitoring, troubleshooting and repairing enterprise customer support services around the world.  • Resolved tier-2 issues involving hardware, software communications, LANs and servers.  • Monitored JWICS, STONEGHOST, SIPRNET and NIPRNET networks using Microsoft Operation Manager (MOM), BMC, WhatsUp Gold, and other monitoring tools to take action for problem resolution.  • Utilized Siebel Support Web service request system to manage workflow and respond to trouble tickets. JWICS NOC Systems Controller HQ Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA), Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling October 2007 to September 2008 General Dynamics  Maintained and monitored a 24/7 Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communications Center (JWICS) Network Operation Center (NOC). Supported operations, monitoring, fault isolation and restoral of the JWICS and DISN Core network.  • Monitored and troubleshot video teleconference which runs over the JWICS network using VC Wizard and VC WEB.  • Built and maintained Primary Virtual Path and Circuits (PVP/PVC) using Marconi software for deployable sites.  • Utilized CISCO and Juniper routers and switches along with VTC network hardware and software tools to maintain operations.  • Responsible for monitoring and troubleshooting Comsec Link Accelerator (CLA), FASTLANE (KG-75), TACLANE, and CSU/DSU devices.  • Utilized Siebel/Support Web service request to track workflow of circuit actions, videoconferences, and ATM/IDNX outages or unsatisfactory network links. Education CI POLY May 2013 to October 2013 BS in Information Technology Capella University - Minneapolis, MN Skills Active directory, Exchange, Netcool, Networking, Remedy, Scom, Server administration, Solarwinds, Tivoli, Siebel, Desktop administration, Help desk, Customer service, Operations Additional Information SKILLS  Help Desk Operations, Desktop Administration Hardware Configurations  Server Administration Networking  MS Server 2008/12 & Exchange 2003 Active Directory, SolarWinds  Customer Service and Support Siebel SupportWeb, Remedy, NetCool  SCOM, HP SiteScope, WhatsUp Gold IBM Tivoli, SolarWinds, Retina