Information Assurance Analyst Information Assurance Analyst Atlanta, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Assurance Analyst US Embassy - Baghdad, IQ March 2017 to May 2018 • Responsible for providing government personnel with policy coordination and general information security support, and assisting with the development and implementation of a defensive security program that protects information systems and documents.  • Maintains a database to track unauthorized activities-common procedures and remedies to be followed by subordinate units by correcting deficiencies identified during information assurance vulnerability compliance visits.  Responsible for documenting that systems are regularly scanned and audited in accordance with DOD policy and procedures network scanning tools such as ACAS, QTIP, and SCCM to detect system and network vulnerabilities/deficiencies as part of a proactive network security policy.  • Provides daily status on findings and recommendations and provides follow-on written technical analyses and reports. Provides 7 Anti-Virus and IAVA reporting, to include review of logs, open tickets, and recommended process for remediation. Information Assurance Specialist CACI July 2014 to November 2016 Responsible for Information Assurance support, guidance, and compliance for U.S. Army classified and unclassified Local Area Networks.  • Maintaining, and enforcing Information Assurance security policies and training programs for information systems users. Provides support to local System Administrators and computer systems users in the areas of Information Assurance policy and guidance. Performs, manages and maintains a local vulnerability assessment and management program in support of Army reporting, compliance and verification policies. Processes and reports security violations and incidents in accordance with USAREUR theater policies. Assists in the gathering and preservation of evidence used in the prosecution of computer CDV (cross domain violations). Systems Engineer SAIC - Norcross, GA December 2011 to May 2014 Work within integrated development team to apply systems engineering practices while defining the database design for future company products while providing level of effort estimates for database development and maintenance tasks.  • Analyze database architectural requirements to develop detailed designs  • Assist in technical support and defect remediation in support of released reports  • Provide assistance to all Junior and Senior Systems Analysts through training, education and mentoring processes with troubleshooting techniques when addressing problem issues that arise with the FuelsManager® Defense and third party software that are used by end users  • Maintain acceptable Service Level Agreement standards as they are established in the external and internal Standard Operating Procedures  • Possess in depth knowledge of Fuels Accounting Ledger Reconciliation procedures required to managing a fuels account related to the BSM-E Program i.e. reconciling accounts, clearing system rejects, appropriately triaging problem issues, and DLA routing procedures. Systems Administrator I Honeywell April 2011 to November 2011 Responsible for the design, deployment and support of system components, servers, and end user peripherals to include the following:    • Active Directory/Exchange 2010 - OU administration using AD console, computers, users, security groups, group policy creation and management, shared boxes, etc.  • WINS/DNS/TCP/IP and dynamic protocols  • Imaging of workstations and laptops using an approved standard image  • OS provisioning, package development, VB scripting using the LANDesk product suite IT SPECIALIST (NETWORK) Kandahar - AF December 2009 to August 2010 2210  As the Senior IT representative for the 4-401st AFSB S6 Information Management Officer has managed the overall program objectives and responsibilities, independently while initiating the actions while recognizing problem areas or potential problems and formulates plans, methods, policies and procedures. Assigns functions within the framework of established directives and policies to include the performances to be reviewed in terms of results in soundness of judgment and general effectiveness of results. Perform information management staff functions. Serves as the ESA-IZ functional expert in assigned areas and for special programs and projects. Participate with decision makers in setting program goals and establishing priorities to provide information management services in support of ESA-IZ strategic plans, goals and objectives. Develops organizational policy and procedures for implementation of guidance from higher level authority and provides advantages and disadvantages of different approaches. Information Assurance Management AECOM - Bagram, AF August 2008 to December 2009 Afghanistan Armed Forces Overseas Afghanistan Information Assurance Management  Manages five sites in Afghanistan to oversee the Implementation of security policies, establishing and verifying programs, conducting system scans, and configuring systems to meet requirements. Performs information management staff functions and serves as the IA offier in functional expert in assigned areas and for special programs and projects. Coordinates, and implements security measures for information systems to regulate access to computer data files and prevent unauthorized modification, destruction, or disclosure of information on all government systems. Documents and keeps current information on all security rules and policies. Sr Systems Engineer General Dynamics - Tampa, FL December 2004 to November 2007 Provided System administration and System support to over 900 users while deployed forward to OCONUS in hostile areas in IRAQ, BAGHDAD, AFRICA, and DOHA, QATAR to include Windows 2000 Server/workstations, NT 4.0 Server/Workstations, Microsoft Exchange Server and over 500 Client Server Environment (CSE) system workstations with more than 900 user accounts across UNIX systems platforms. Provide help with Tier I/II personnel on Windows 2000/Windows NT and Microsoft Exchange environment. Assure data/ systems needs were met; coordinated with IT staff on network and database issues to include hardware, software and web applications. Support a global Active Directory (AD) infrastructure with several thousand users in a mixed Windows environment to include the following:  * Backed up File and Print Servers.  * Re-imaged and configured migration workstations.  * Created security groups, exchange and computer accounts.  * Added print queues.  * Installed printer servers and publish printers in Active Directory as shared resources.  * Upgraded Windows Operating Systems  * Resolving LAN or WAN issues Systems Administrator (FSR) BAE Systems - Washington, DC June 2003 to February 2004 System Administrator and Configuration Manager for HOCNET project as sub-contractor to GD-NS; upgraded over a thousand computers for the FBI through all international sites OCONUS at US embassies and DOA sites. Responsible for the Network baselines of Windows 95 & 98 to windows 2000, which includes application software upgrades and patches.  Providing desktop support for users and installed printers on the network for users  Liaison person for the company and the customer to ensure all facets of the work was completed in a satisfactory and timely manner while Migrated user files from Novell to Windows 2000 servers. Education Masters in Computer in Computer Systems of Management Univ of Phoenix August 2008 Diploma of Telecommunications in Telecommunications Sanford Community College - Sanford, NC May 1999 Bachelor in Information Systems in Information Technology Computer Forensics Devry Univ Decatur GA Oct - Decatur, GA Skills System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory, Vmware, System Administrator, Active Directory, Vmware, System Admin, SCCM Military Service Branch: Reserves Rank: SSG Certifications/Licenses MCSE 2012 May 2017 to May 2020 Security+ May 2017 to May 2020 CASP May 2017 to May 2020