Salesforce Administrator / Developer Salesforce <span class="hl">Administrator</span> / Developer Salesforce Administrator / Developer - PwC Dallas, TX Around 4 years of professional experience in IT, maintaining technical and management skills with up-to-date industrial knowledge, including Salesforce Administrator, Developer and Business analyst with Data Validation and Utilities, Analytics, Sales, Marketing and Support Administration.  • Good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) with expertise in Requirement Gathering, Analysis, Designing, Development, and testing.  • Ability to collaborate with multiple business units to define the scope of a project, analyze business requirements, design and develop applications.  • Experience in working with Salesforce.com sandbox and production environments.  • Proficient with understanding of CRM business processes - Account, Contact, Opportunity, Lead, and Campaign, Activities, Case Management and Knowledge management.  • Involved in migration from Salesforce Classic to Lightning Experience, with reports and dashboards automatically viewable and inheriting all permissions and sharing settings defined in Salesforce Classic.  • Experienced in implementing Lightning Components, Lightning Apps and Pages, Salesforce Communities, Visualforce pages, Web Services, Components, Custom Tabs, Custom Objects, Reports, Analytic Snapshots and Dashboards to achieve complex business functionalities.  • Working knowledge with Agile Scrum and Waterfall Methodologies.  • Experience in SFDC development using Apex classes and Triggers, Visual Force, Force.com IDE, SOQL and SOSL.  • Hands on experience in customization, configuring, deploying and integrating Salesforce.com CRM solutions.  • Implemented security and sharing rules at object, field and record level for different users at various levels of the organization.  • Experienced in Web technologies like HTML, CSS, Java Scripts and Java technologies like JDK, J2EE, JSP, and Servlets.  • Proficient in Data Migration from Traditional Applications to Salesforce using Import Wizard and Data Loader, and tools like Dataloader.io Utility.  • Experience in creating different types of Reports like Tabular, Summary, Matrix, Join and developing Dashboards using Reports  • Familiarity with security concepts authentication, authorization, SSL, web service proxies.  • Worked on REST/SOAP Web service to integrate salesforce with third party systems. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Administrator / Developer PwC - Dallas, TX October 2017 to Present Description: PwC brings clients industry-specific technological expertise in a range of services spanning strategy and enterprise architecture, security, privacy and risk issues, information management, IT infrastructure and business applications.  Responsibilities:  • Extensively used Agile Scrum methodology to reach business team goals by gathering day to day requirements and building them using Force.com platform.  • Worked on building partner community and an in-house application for tracking user stories, requirements, sprints, work tasks, bugs, etc.  • Closely worked with Business stakeholders while implementing the solutions for the needs of the organization.  • Designed, developed and deployed the Custom objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, Visual Force Pages, Apex classes to suit to the needs of the application.  • Customized the Reports and Dashboards and homepages of users to the track usage for productivity and performance of internal teams.  • Customized tabs for among different business user's groups and business centers.  • Created users, profiles and permission sets and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy requirements using roles.  • Used Apex Data Loader for various data related operations like data inserting, updating, deleting and exporting.  • Performed bulk imports of data using Apex Data Loader Bulk API.  • Implemented security and access control by building a model around the user profile, permission sets and roles to achieve Object level, field level and record level security.  • Created various workflows to send emails, field updates, outbound messages.  • Created picklists, dependent picklists, lookup and master-detail relationship, and formula fields on custom objects.  • Created executive dashboard to display Open, closed leads in Salesforce.com.  • Created list views, Reports, Dashboards, Page layouts, Custom objects, custom fields, and validation rules.  • Developed Apex Classes, Triggers, Batch Apex, Test Classes and ensured Code Coverage is close to 100% in developer org.  • Developed Visualforce Pages and Lightning Components, controllers, extensions for custom functionality for business process defined by client.  • Used Salesforce Lightning Design Systems (SLDS) components, Aura and Lightning Framework to build Customer Community  • Assisted in migration from Salesforce Classic to Lightning Experience to develop rich user interface.  • Attended Daily Scrum and weekly planning meetings and sprint review and retrospective.  Environment: SalesForce.com CRM Application Platform, Apex, Visualforce, HTML, JavaScript, Custom Objects, Tabs, Page Layouts, Workflows, Approval Processes, Email, Messaging, Dashboards, Reports, Eclipse, Sandbox, Production environment, REST API, SOAP, Metadata, Bulk transactions, security controls, Scribe Insight. Salesforce Administrator / Business Analyst CareFirst - Baltimore, MD June 2015 to September 2017 Description: CareFirst BlueCross BlueShield is a not-for-profit, non-stock health services company which, through its affiliates and subsidiaries, offers a comprehensive portfolio of products and administrative services to individuals and groups in Maryland, the District of Columbia and portions of Northern Virginia.  Responsibilities:  • Imported data from excel sheets in to Leads, Accounts, Contacts and Opportunities using Data Loader and Import Wizard.  • Performed GAP Analysis by creating AS-IS and TO-BE documents to identify the potentials of the improved system.  • Conducted requirement walkthroughs to understand the benefits of the system.  • Created and maintained User Stories by interviewing the business users to communicate the requirements  to development and testing teams.  • Responsible for documenting user stories, business rules, workflow diagrams and business process modeling (BPM) for the proposed functionality.  • Worked as a Scrum Master in the burn-down chart, task board updates and Product Backlog  Reconciliation.  • Analyzed click-through rates on campaigns and developed insight reports using marketing cloud.  • Reviewed Test case, Test data and Test Scenario to make sure testing should perform properly.  • Created profiles and implemented Object and field level security to hide critical information on the profile users.  • Created users, roles, public groups and implemented role hierarchies, sharing rules and record level permissions to provide shared access among different users.  • Created various Custom Objects, Custom Settings, Custom Labels, Validation rules, Record types, Custom Tabs, Workflow rule and approval process including Field updates and email alerts.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, filed updates to implement business logic.  • Created templates, approval processes, approval page layouts and defined approval actions on them to automate the processes  • Developed Assignment rules, Escalation rules to enable proper routing of cases to the case team members.  • Implemented Web to Case, Email to Case functionalities to improve case management processes.  Environment: Salesforce.com (SFDC) Sales and Service Clouds, Force.com IDE, Microsoft Office Suite, Just in Mind Prototype, UML 2.0, APEX, Data Loader. Business Systems Analyst United Health Group - Eden Prairie, MN January 2015 to May 2015 Description: UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual works closely with employers and individuals to provide a comprehensive array of consumer-oriented health benefit plans and services for large national employers, public sector employers, mid-sized employers, small businesses and individuals nationwide, providing nearly 27 million Americans access to quality health care. Optum Health Services platform is a leading information and technology-enabled health services business dedicated to modernizing the system and improving the health of people and communities.  Responsibilities:  • Gathered and documented business requirements and business process flow, following the existing template and specifying the objects, assumptions, constrains, scope, features, data flow diagrams, and screen mock-ups etc.  • Facilitated cross-team meetings with committees from Operation and Development to allow different stakeholders to communicate their interests and concerns and document meeting minutes.  • Collaborated with System Analyst, Technical Lead, and developers to assist them in fully understanding of business requirements.  • Maintained an Open Issue List and Issue Log to track the status of all the issues and concerns raised during the project.  • Followed a structured approach to name and organize requirements into different hierarchy level groups as Capability, Feature, and Business Requirement for traceability purpose.  • Scheduled meetings with different Stakeholders to gather the requirements for the project  • Documented Business Requirement Document (BRD) and Functional Requirement Document (FRD) Developed Design Document and Project Plan Document.  • Created RTM to trace the Test Scenarios back to BRD  • Created Shares and granted Permissions to the Service Accounts to share the files using Privileged Access Management  • Worked on File Forwarding  • Created and uploaded documents for the project to the SharePoint Site  • Provided daily and weekly updates to managers on application status to help prepare accurate project timelines and resource estimates  • Drove working sessions with new team members to facilitate knowledge transfer and ensured smooth transition of roles and responsibilities.  • Participated in Bug-Review meetings with software developers, QA engineers, managers and suggested enhancements to the existed application from business perspectives  • Updated Weekly Status Report on SharePoint-Teamwork for accomplishments, in-progress items and tasks assigned in the coming week, notify project manager for additional concerns and recognitions and enter working hours for every task performed.  • Created the business process model using MS Visio for better understanding of the system and presented it to Project Manager and other team members for validation.  • Organized one-on-one meeting with individual PMO Leads to check any outstanding deliverables and status of applications.  Environment: Windows 10, MS Office, MS Visio, MS Project, SQL, Metadata, Extractor, SharePoint Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology University of Phoenix 2015 Skills Html, Javascript, Json, Metadata, Force.com, Dynamics, Dynamics crm, Apex, Eclipse, Java, jquery, Soap, Rest, Crm, Ms access, Sql server, Oracle, Sql, Css, Web services Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/kunal-p-36bb5a113 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Salesforce: Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, Apex Schedulers, Batch Jobs, Dynamic Apex, SOQL, SOSL, Visualforce (Pages, Components & Controllers), Web Services, Workflow rules, Approval Processes, Validation Rules & Formulas, Dashboards, Reports, Analytic Snapshots, flows, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Page Layouts, record types, Users, Public Groups, Profiles, Permission Sets, Process Builder, Roles, Territories, Custom Metadata, Custom Labels, Custom Settings, Eclipse IDE, Lightning and Aura Frameworks, Salesforce Lightning Design System, Developer Console, Data Loader, Dataloader.io, Data Import Wizard, Global Picklists, Chatter, Web-to-Case, Email-to-Case, email alerts, field updates, email templates,  Programming & Web Technologies: Java, REST, SOAP, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, CDNs, JSON, CSS.  AppExchange: Twilio, DocuSign, Chargent  Salesforce Clouds: Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Community Cloud, Marketing Cloud  CPQ: Steelbrick CPQ (Salesforce CPQ)  IDE Platforms: Force.com IDE, Eclipse.  Databases: MS Access, Oracle, SQL Server.  CRM: Salesforce, Dynamics CRM  Operating System: Windows, Linux, OS X