Cloud DevOps Engineer Cloud DevOps Engineer Cloud DevOps Engineer - Pearson-North Carolina Cary, NC 3+ years of IT experience in providing infrastructure automation services within Private and Public Clouds as well as Continuous Delivery, Continuous Integration and Build tools with AWS and development in Windows, Mac and Linux systems.    ? Experienced working in AWS cloud computing platform and many dimensions of scalability including EC2, S3, EBS, VPC, ELB, AMI, SNS, RDS, IAM, Route 53, Auto scaling, Cloud Front, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation, OPS Work, Security Groups.  ? Automated the periodic rehydration of EC2 instances using Lambda and Cloud Watch.  ? Provided heavily in setting up the CI/CD pipeline using Jenkins,Maven,SVN,GitHub,Chef and Terraform,Docker as a Containerization tool.  ? Defined branching, labeling, and merge strategies for all applications in Git.  ? Integration and automation of version control applications like Perforce, Nexus,Subversion, Git and TFS.  ? Extensively experience in Jenkins as part of continuous integration and used it as an automation tool for all builds and deployment.  ? Mastery of build technologies like ANT, Maven for the building of deployable artifacts from source code.  ? Experienced in an agile development team to deliver an end to end continuous integration and continuous delivery product in an open source environment using tools like Chef & Jenkins.  ? Implementing new project builds framework using Jenkins&Maven, ANT as build framework.  ? Experienced with development team to migrate Ant scripts to Maven. Created and modified build configuration files including POM.xml.  ? Experienced with Docker container service. Created Dockerized applications by creating Docker images from Dockerfile.  ? Well versed with Ansible Playbooks, modules and roles.  ? Used Ansible and Ansible Tower as Configuration management tool, to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploys critical applications, and proactively manages change.  ? Extensively experienced in scripting languages like Bash, Perl, Python and Ruby.  ? Providing end to end SCM consultation and implementation. In-depth understanding of the principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) in agile and SCRUM methodologies.  ? Configured customized alarms in Vcenter server for data store usage, host CPU and Memory usage.  ? Managed the VMware Automation center to accelerate the delivery and ongoing management with personalized business infrastructure and customer services.  ? Experienced in deploying the code through web application servers like Web Sphere/Web Logic/ Tomcat/JBOSS.  ? Experience in configuration and managing LinuxVirtual Machines under VMware.  ? Mentored other systems administrators in engineering, installation, configuration, testing and administration of Linux Servers. Work Experience Cloud DevOps Engineer Pearson-North Carolina July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:-  ? Extensively worked on AWS Cloud Platform and its services that includeEC2,VPC,EBS,ELB,S3,IAM, CloudWatch,CloudFront,Route 53,Lambda,API Gate way,EKS,ECS.  ? Worked on AWS Auto Scaling for providing high availability of applications and EC2 instances based on the load of applications by using CloudWatch.  ? Creating Jenkins CI/CD pipelines to build the code and there by deploy the code using configuration management tool such as Ansible.  ? Worked on CI/CD ECS pipeline,one click deployment to AWS ECS Containers using Jenkins pipeline and Cloud Formation Templates.  ? Build,manage and continuously improve the build infrastructure for global software development engineering teams by implemention of Continuous Integration using Jenkins.  ? Experienced in installing,configuring and monitoring Datadog tool to manage large scale environment on Cloud.  ? Created Cloud Formation templates for the creation of infrastructure and services such as ECS Cluster,ECR,task-definitions,Service IAM roles,ECS instance roles,ECS Autoscaling group,Load balancers,Listner rules etc.,  ? Working with AWS CLI and API to manage resources on AWS such as EC2,S3,VPC,Cloud Watch,ELB,Auto-Scaling,SNS,writing Python Scripts to manage resources deploy on AWS.  ? Writing Ansible scripts to deploy into the servers and to configure them.  ? Created DEV and QA environments for many applications using docker-compose and docker containerization concepts.  ? Knowledge and practical exposure in Docker,ECS,EKS and Kubernetes.  ? Created Docker files for many applications such as Angular, .Net framework, .Net Core, and Node JS  Applications.  ? Can build deployment, build scripts and automated solutions using scripting languages like Shell,Bash,Perl and Python scripting.    Environment: AWS,EC2, Auto Scaling, Route53, S3, IAM, RDS, ELK, Cloud Formation ,Cloud watch,Aws Lambda,ELB,ECS,EKS.DataDog,Jenkins,Ansible,Docker,Docker-Compose,PythonScripts,PerlScripts,Rubyscripts, Shellscripts,Angular,.Net framework, .Net Core,Node JS. AWS /DevOps Engineer TransPerfect - New Jersey July 2017 to June 2018 Responsibilities:-  ? Involved in designing and deploying multitude applications utilizing almost all the AWS stack (Including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS,EBS,ELB,SNS,SQS,IAM,AMI) focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and Auto Scaling in AWS CloudFormation.  ? Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets.Built Jenkins jobs to create AWS infrastructure from GitHub repos containing Terraform code.  ? Configured GIT repositories and performed branching, tagging, merge requests, and notifications tasks.  ? Used Agile/scrum Environment and used Jenkins, GitHub for Continuous Integration and Deployment with Tier2 Support.  ? Hands on experienced in Java build tools Ant, Maven, Gradle and MSBuild and highly proficient in using writing scripts in ANT and Maven for build management and Jenkins for managing CI/CD pipeline.  ? Managed the Maven Repository using Nexus tool and used the same to share the snapshots and releases of internal projects.  ? Automated various infrastructure activities like Continuous Deployment, Application Server setup, Stack monitoring using Ansible playbooks and has Integrated Ansible with Jenkins.  ? Involved in setting up builds using Ansible as a configuration management tool and managed the configurations of more than 40 servers.  ? Worked with Docker components like Docker engine, Hub, Compose and registry for storing Docker images and files running multiple containers in staging and production environments.  ? Hands on experience with scripting languages like Python, Bash,Shell and Perl.  ? Build and release of Cloud based products containing Linux and Windows environments using Python Scripting.  ? Worked in implementation team to build and engineer servers on Ubuntu and RHEL Linux. Provisioning virtual servers on VMware and ESX servers using Vcloud.    Environment: AWS,EC2, Auto Scaling, Route53, S3, IAM, RDS, ELK, Cloud Formation ,Cloud watch ,Terraform,Aws Lambda,Java,Jenkins,Ansible,Docker,MavenNexus,PythonScripts,PerlScripts,Rubyscripts,shellscripts,Sqoop,Vcloud,MySQL,SQL,Oracle,Jboss,WebSphere,TomcatWebServer,Splunk,Ubuntu,RHELLinux,VMware. Linux Systems Administrator Rovi Corporation - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  The System Administrator is responsible for troubleshooting, maintaining and implementing solutions to optimize the infrastructure operations in a Linux based environment.    ? Solid understanding of Linux shell and Perl scripting, UNIX, Windows, build and release engineering principles.  ? Performed automated installation of RedHat/CentOS Operating Systems using Kick-Start servers.  ? Configured kick start server and updating/applying patches to the servers using Red Hat Satellite server.  ? Custom build of Windows 2003 and Windows 2008 servers which includes adding users, SAN, network configuration, installing application related packages, managing services.  ? Performed package management for system upgrades and updates using yum and rpm.  ? Responsible for maintenance of development tools and utilities and to maintain Shell, Perl and Bash automation Scripts.  ? Remote system administration using tools like SSH, Telnet and R login.  ? Monitoring the CPU utilization and disk space and memory in Linux machines.  ? Managed Virtual Memory and swap space on Red Hat Linux servers.  ? Performed packages and patches management and debugging as needed.  ? Created and edited Users, Groups and file permissions as per requirements.  ? Worked on Tomcat, JBOSS, Web Logic and Web Sphere Application servers for deployments.  ? Installed, configured and maintained web servers like HTTP Web Server, Apache Web Server and Web Sphere Application Server on Red Hat Linux.  ? Configure, manage LDAP and Integrate Red Hat Enterprise Linux nodes to LDAP.  ? Managing HP-UX, Compaq and Linux workstations and Servers. Configure and support Apache on Linux servers.  ? Administer VMware Infrastructure Client 3.5 and Vsphere 4.0.  ? Build Linux Virtual Machines using VMware Virtual Center.  ? Installation, configuration, and customization of services Send mail, Apache, FTP servers to meet the user needs and requirements.    Environment: Red Hat Linux 4.x, Solaris 8 OS, Windows 2003 and Windows 2008 servers.HP-UX S,SAN,CPU,HTTP Web Server and WebSphere,Apache,LDAP,Tomcat,FTP servers,client 3.5 and Vsphere 4.0. Education Master's of Information Technology in Information Technology Atlantis University - Miami, FL 2017 Bachelor's of Electrical and Electronic Engineering in Electrical and Electronic Engineering JNTU Hyderabad - Hyderabad, Telangana 2014 Skills C++, Git, Gradle, Html, Jenkins, Perl, Python, Ruby, Scripting, Subversion, Xml, Ant, Maven, Ebs, Ec2, Linux, Red hat, Solaris, Sun, Unix Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating systems Linux (Red Hat 4.x, 5.x, 6.x,7.x), WINDOWS NT/2000/2003/XP/ VISTA/7, UNIX - Sun Solaris v 9, 10, Ubuntu 12.x,13.x,14.x,15.x  Programming/Scripting languages Bash, Shell, Ruby, C, C++, XML, PL/SQL, Java, HTML, Perl, Python.  Web Servers / Application Servers Apache2.0/2.2/2.4,ApacheTomcat5.5/6.0/7.0,WebLogic,WebSphere,Nginix,JBOSS,My SQL,MS Access.  Tools Jenkins,Ant,Maven,Gradle,CVS,Subversion,Perforce,Git,TFS,Nexus,Terraform,Vagrant,DockerAnsible.  Virtualization VMware ESX, ESXi, vSphere 4 and vSphere 5Citrix.  AWS (services)  EC2,ELB,VPC,RDS,IAM,AMI,CloudFormation,S3,AutoScaling,Lambda Cloudwatch,CloudTrial,Cloud Front,OPSWorks,SNS,SQS,EBS,Route-53