Systems Engineer (CTR) <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer (CTR) Systems Engineer (CTR) - BlueWater Federal Solutions Owings Mills, MD Work Experience Systems Engineer (CTR) BlueWater Federal Solutions - Fort Meade, MD March 2019 to Present • Manage and deploy physical and virtual servers within the environment in a secure manner in accordance with government security standards.  • Manage vSphere virtual environment, vSAN and automated deployment.  • Extensive experience building and managing virtual infrastructures using VMware and Microsoft Hyper-V.  • Configure and enable Active Directory Domain Services AD DS to ensure systems and resources are properly managed within the virtual infrastructure.  • Experience in configuring, and maintaining Microsoft Exchange servers.  • Experience in building and configuring web and application servers.  • Intermediate experience in HTML language and scripting.  • Provide technical expertise to resolve Tier II incidents on production.  • Maintain documentation in compliance with Systems Engineering and Acquisition processes for all tasks related to programs supported.  • Prepare and develop supporting implementation documents.  • Configure email security gateways such as IronPort and Symantec DLP to provide data loss prevention.  • Configure Proxy servers and devices to filter traffic.  • Build and maintain Certificate Authorities.  • Maintain and optimize DNS and DHCP as requested. Multichannel Transmission Systems Operator Army Reserves - Baltimore, MD February 2015 to Present • Install, operate, maintain UHF Radio terminal AN/TRC-190(V).  • Install Satellite Communication Subsystems AN/TSC-167(V)2.  • Operate, maintain, perform system shutdown procedures on Satellite Communication Subsystem AN/ TSC-167(V)2.  • Install and operate Secure Mobile Anti-Jam Reliable Tactical Terminal (SMART-T) AN/TSC-154 Systems Administrator II (CTR) Chameleon Integrated Services - Fort Meade, MD September 2018 to March 2019 • Configure, install and repair computers, software, communications devices and peripheral equipment.  • Install network hardware/software.  • Train site personnel in proper use of hardware/software. Build specialized interconnecting cables.  • Provide technical assistance and support for incoming queries and issues related to computer systems, software, and hardware.  • Deliver a high level of customer service and professional interaction with internal customers, management, and administration. Provide technical support and resolve problems to the end user's satisfaction.  • Assist end-users in person and remotely with various hardware and software issues while asking questions to determine the nature of problem.  • Utilize and maintain the helpdesk tracking software (Remedy ITSM)  • Troubleshoot and solve complex technical problems  • Resolve and or escalate Tier II incidents.  • Perform Tier II problem recording and classification.  • Identify and record Tier II errors.  • Provide technical expertise sufficient to resolve Tier II problem arbitration.  • Conduct technical analysis to develop a Weekly Tier II Trend Analysis Report which identify the cause of increases and/or decreases (i.e., design changes, outages, events, and other network impact occurrences) in trouble ticket trends. System Administrator II (CTR) Army Reserves - Fort Meade, MD September 2017 to August 2018 • Conduct installations/patching of operating systems, software installation/ configuration, and system backups Use the automated trouble ticket systems (VimBiz) to record actions taken to resolve and provide technical assistance to DINFOS end users.  • Assist with user account, access, and password related issues on Active Directory  • Ensure security compliance and accountability in system access and supports other user issues using documented standard operating procedures and in accordance with ITIL best practices.  • Ensure compliance with applicable security and property accountability requirements.  • Use DameWare Mini Remote Control to remote into end user systems to troubleshoot issues.  • Use IMB BigFix Console to manage end user systems by sending out patches and software updates.  • End user device configuration for network compatibility, DHCP IP address reservation and management.  • Provide minor network cabling installations and modifications as required.  • Troubleshoot network drives on file servers through Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP).  • Deploy printers and their policies on the network.  • Image and manage computer systems for endpoint users.  • Monitor and manage enterprise systems through McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator  • Install patches to manage system vulnerabilities  • Scanning systems and assisting the team in remediating vulnerabilities  • Review HBSS threat events  • Troubleshoot HBSS product issues and outages NOC Administrator (CTR) INFOZEN - Annapolis Junction, MD May 2017 to October 2017 • Monitor, report and document the health and status of development, testing, and production systems using Tivoli and Netcool.  • Manage incident and service request with ticket creations, updating and closure.  • Create and send AWS alerts as needed.  • Participate in system maintenance and change management activities as needed.  • Creation of and transmission of daily and ad hoc reports.  • Next level troubleshooting of IT and non-IT related issues, unlocking record, verifying records, and handling of enrollment errors.  • Creation and update of daily shift logs.  • Meeting Service Level Agreements (SLAs)  • Assist with editing of Standard Operations Procedures and other supporting documentation.  • CSG TVC machine account unlock and password resets.  • Reset state od SFPD and send unsolicited BPPR message, if requested. System Administrator Army Reserves - Amman, JO May 2016 to January 2017 • Primary support and interface with site Information Management Officers (IMO) to ensure all Service Desk resources are utilized in the most efficient manner. Assisted the IMO with daily functions of computer, network, and software management for the site and all 300+ users.  • Person to person interactions, troubleshooting, information exchange and helped with ticket submission and issues.  • Provided telephone customer support for incoming and follow up calls used for initial troubleshooting.  • Utilized Remedy call management software and other tools, to log and manage trouble tickets.  • Troubleshoot Microsoft OS and all other site authorized software with IMOs and users.  • Established user accounts enabled and disabled user workstations and accounts.  • Performed system routine maintenance such as patching, antivirus, and other security requirements by US Army standards and regulations.  • Configuring devices on the network for network compatibility.  • Provided users account maintenance as required. Granted and denied users folder permissions.  • Created, managed and maintained user elevated accounts including password resets.  • ITSM/Remedy ticket management, maintaining customer trouble tickets via portal.  • Managed share drive usage and storage. Create folders and allocated privileges.  • Cross domain violation mitigation and training all users.  Enhanced Trusted Agent  • Validated that the requesters were eligible to receive a DoD PKI certificate (U.S. military, DoD civilian, DoD contractor) and met the minimum requirements in Section 5 Paragraph 4-14 of AR 25-2 for access to Army networks.  • Gathered and forwarded requestor's registration information to the Registration Authority (RA)/Local Registration Authority (LRA).  • Verified that each N/SA or subscriber by meeting with them face to face to conduct a visual inspection of two forms of government issued ID (i.e. CAC, driver's license, etc.) prior to providing the requestor PKI certificate, SIPR Token or ASCL token. For SIPR Tokens, verified the identity of each subscriber as specified in section 3.2.3 of the DoD Registration Practice Statement (RPS).  • Issued ASCL smart cards, SIPR Tokens or DoD PKI certificates to the requestors within two weeks of receiving them from the Army RA office.  • Assisted subscribers in the downloading and installation of their certificates.  • Reported to the RA/LRA if a requestor departed from DoD service or had their rights to Army network access revoked or if the ASCL token or private key is compromised through loss or theft. Education Bachelor's in Environmental Sci Towson University - Towson, MD January 2012 to May 2015 Skills Active directory (1 year), Dns (Less than 1 year), Exchange (1 year), Hyper-v. (Less than 1 year), Linux (Less than 1 year), Microsoft exchange (Less than 1 year), Netcool. (Less than 1 year), R2 (Less than 1 year), Remedy (1 year), Sap (Less than 1 year), Tivoli (Less than 1 year), Vmware (Less than 1 year), Windows server 2008 (Less than 1 year), Windows server 2008 r2 (Less than 1 year) Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: SPC (P) Additional Information Skills    VMWare, MS Hyper-V, Windows Server 2008 R2, 2012 R2, 2016, Exchange Servers, Linux Servers, DNS, Web Servers, Microsoft Exchange, Tivoli Monitoring, Netcool, Remedy ITSM, Active Directory, IBM BigFix Console, DameWare, Blue Coat,