DevOps Engineer DevOps Engineer DevOps Engineer - PRGX I am a professional with over 4 years' experience within the IT industry. I have several hands-on experiences in systems administration, automation, software life cycle engineering. My current expertise is in the areas of Build, Release and Deployment p with emphasis on designing, Implementation, and managing Continuous Integration build systems with DevOps practice. Work Experience DevOps Engineer PRGX April 2019 to Present • Plans and executes design, implementation, and automation of solution delivery.  • Troubleshoots application deployments on enterprise container, server and cluster environments.  • Work with IT security to ensure environments comply with the appropriate security controls.  • support development groups by facilitating and troubleshooting automated software builds  • Building servers on VMware.  • Monitoring servers (infrastructure and application), and troubleshooting alerts/notifications from monitoring systems.  • Building and testing monitoring tools to validate best functionalities.  • Writing and modifying runbooks for effective response to alerts.  • Assists with technical and procedural documentation.  • Deploys, administers playbooks with Ansible scripts and Ansible Tower.  • Troubleshoot CI/CD jobs in Jenkins pipelines.  • Administers GitHub repositories, ensuring compliance with DevOps standards.  • Assists with the development and implementation of code quality and unit testing gates as part of the solution delivery process using SonarQube.  • Deploys monitors and troubleshoots containerized infrastructure environments using Docker/Kubernetes and Red Hat OpenShift.  • Conduct software and hardware evaluations provide technical analysis and implement systems to meet the company's IT goals. DevOps Engineer EQUIFAX August 2018 to April 2019 • Building environment on Blue-bird with Praxis as requested for development purposes.  • Creating and maintaining cloud environments and their supporting infrastructures.  • Infrastructure and application monitoring using different monitoring software's.  • Working with tools such as Jenkins and Rundeck to deploy code to environments.  • Proactively monitoring and maintaining of the infrastructure, on-prem and cloud.  • Responding to alerts when thresholds are met by following allocated runbook.  • Working under ITIL framework and IT Service Management in supporting the administration of the global platform and manage support process to enable internal customers globally.  • Working closely with different team members in other countries, businesses, operations, and IT personnel on support installation, configuration, ongoing maintenance and enhancements of all elements in the software lifecycle.  • Working with ticketing system tools such Jira, ServiceNow, ServiceDesk to track assigned task, problems, change management, release management etc.  • Using recommendations from the security team to install software updates and complementary security software by formal processes to remediate vulnerabilities.  • Identified improvements to our internal tools.  • Contributing in the development, documentation, and enforcement of processes and policies across departments.  • Working with team of developers in building and Deployment of Java applications onto different environment. Systems Engineer RAM PARTNERS, LLC May 2017 to August 2018 • User administration: creating users, changing passwords, configuring password aging policies.  • Build solutions for AWS cloud integration and cloud management.  • Managing filesystems to make sure they don't exceed critical levels using reports from Nagios and responding to critical and major Nagios alerts.  • Managing logical volumes.  • Installed and configured primary and secondary DNS servers from ground up.  • Managed DNS forward and reverse zone files with A, NS, MX, CNAME and PTR records entries.  • Patching and package management using Red Hat satellite server.  • Using Jira to track team tasks and assigned tasks.  • Installed, configured and managed NFS for filesystem sharing between Linux network.  • Mounting exported NFS/CIFS filesystems from remote machines and troubleshooting issues related to mounts.  • Hardware troubleshooting, replacement and support.  • Created, scheduled cron jobs entries and monitoring cron productivity.  • Network connection troubleshooting, management and support.  • Server decommissioning using laid down procedures and scripts.  • Physical walk-through server observation.  • Server hardening plus Security and audit scans to limit cracking.  • Documenting processes for future references. Linux System Administrator STANSBERRY & COMPANY, LLC September 2016 to May 2017 • Hardware monitoring and performance evaluation using Dell DRAC  • Tracking filesystem growth trends and capacity planning.  • Network troubleshooting and maintenance resolve server unresponsiveness.  • Installing service packs and security patches and Installation.  • Creating set mounts points and mounting remote NFS mounts on them.  • Performed data management using native utilities for archiving and compression.  • System troubleshooting and operating system support.  • Security scans analysis and baseline analysis.  • Disk quotas evaluation and system performance monitoring and tuning.  • Hardware documentation and policy. Systems Administrator 3xPOINT April 2015 to August 2016 • Server administration - user management and support.  • System monitoring, analysis -making recommendations regarding computer system.  • Planned and performed appropriate procedures, documentation, inventory assessment, and other procedures related to IT.  • Performed ongoing performance tuning, hardware upgrades and resource optimization as required.  • Performing general troubleshooting by going into the log files to investigate the root cause of the issue.  • Performed periodic performance reporting to support capacity planning. Education Master of Science in Project Management University of East London 2013 Bachelor's in accounting in accounting University of Benin 2008