Network Administrator Network <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - LeMay Center Wargaming Institute Deatsville, AL Top-notch Network Administrator/ Systems Administrator with more than 5 years IT experience.  Extensive training in system administration and Network Configuration. Dynamic leader and team builder, consistently motivating others towards success. Work Experience Network Administrator LeMay Center Wargaming Institute May 2019 to Present • Configure Cisco Routers and Switches to enable simulated wargames to be carried out.  • Completely tear down and reconfigure individual rooms for different war games according to requirements by customers.  • Support VOIP, NIPR, and SIPR hardware to include workstations, switches, routers, and VTCs  • Performs upgrades and maintenance of systems  • Performs Tier I and II technical analysis of network problems  • Regularly manage the implementation of configuration of wargames, including delegating tasks and responsibilities to fellow airmen. Information Technology Specialist ( Systems ADMIN) 11th Special Operations Intelligence Squadron March 2016 to May 2019 • 3 years experience in Active Directory Enterprise Level Services, SCCM, information assurance, networking, scripting, security tools, ISR Tools, Windows OS, project management and storage area networks. Experience has been with DOD/SOF networks including NIPRNet, SIPRNet, and SOCRATES networks. Additionally has base level domain admin experience  • Authored Squadron security policy regarding removable media inside of SCIF (Sensitive Compartmentalized Information Facility).  • Remedy ticket creation and logging to liaison between communications squadron and customer.  • Support 24 hour operations in high tempo environment under time sensitive conditions.  • Vet new user accounts to ensure need to know for access to TS/SCI facility and systems.  • Windows 7 and 10 System administration for customers.  • Resolve hardware/software interface and interoperability problems ensuring systems availability, functionality, integrity, and efficiency.  • Maintain Lexmark and HP printers when needed.  • Deploy workstation patches as needed to support 650 users.  • Keep up-to-date documentation of building network to ensure any system moves that happen are reflected on patch panel and in digital documentation.    United States Air Force Active Duty Education Bachelors of Science in Network Operations and Security Western Governor's University - Salt Lake City, UT June 2021 Associates of Science in Systems Technology Community College of the Air Force - Maxwell-Gunter AFB, AL Skills CISCO, REMEDY, TCP/IP, TCP, IOS, VOIP, JAVASCRIPT, PYTHON, LINUX, SQL, WINDOWS 10, WINDOWS 7, MICROSOFT OUTLOOK, OUTLOOK, MICROSOFT WORD, WORD, Active Directory, Networking, VPN, LAN Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: SrA Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ May 2019 to May 2022 CompTIA A+ May 2019 to May 2022 CompTIA Network+ July 2019 to July 2022 Assessments Technical Support — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/upy3b-dbrmifydu8 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY  Hardware: IBM PC, Dell PC and HP PC, CISCO VoIP, Cisco VTC, Cisco Routers & Switches  Operating Systems: Windows 7, Windows 10, Cisco IOS, Linux  Software: Microsoft Outlook 2016, Microsoft Word 2016, Remedy, Putty, TCP/IP, SQL  Languages: Familiar with Javascript and Python  TECHNICAL EXPERIENCE