Computer Technician (Linux/ Windows System Admin) Computer Technician (Linux/ Windows <span class="hl">System</span> Admin) Computer Technician (Linux/ Windows System Admin) Wolf Point, MT Knowledgeable, detail-oriented Linux System Administrator with almost 5 years of  experience working with Linux software; creating/managing user accounts, performing  system upgrades, system maintenance and troubleshooting in Linux (almost 5 years)  and Windows (2 years) environments. Work Experience Computer Technician (Linux/ Windows System Admin) Soy Capital Bank and Trust - Decatur, IL March 2017 to May 2019 Performed updates, system maintenance, kernel upgrades and configured Linux/Unix Systems Administrator Timeless Solutions Inc - Hyattsville, MD October 2013 to March 2016 Internship/Training)  • Created and managed user accounts and permissions.  • Maintained Linux servers, evaluated needs and installed appropriate  recommended patches as needed.  • Installed several instances of RHEL 6 & 7, CENTOS 6, and SOLARIS 10 on ORACLE VM Virtual Box and KVMs (kernel Based Virtual Machines).  • Configured APACHE Web Servers in Linux server environment.  • Supported APACHE Web servers and performed Apache Virtual Hosts  configurations.  • Installed and configured LAMP stack servers (Linux Apache MySql PHP).  • Wrote BASH shell scripts.  • Scheduled automatic repetitive Jobs, and Shell Scripts with CRONTAB.  • Maintained Local area networks (LANs).  • Monitored TCP/IP network environment.  • Performed operational maintenance, support and upgrades for Linux operating  systems, workstations and servers.  • Installed and configured applications and programs using RPM (Red Hat Package  Manager) and YUM (Yellow Dog Manager)  • Performed advanced installations using KICKSTART.  • Configured Network File Systems (NFS) (configuration of NFS shares and NFS  mounts). SAMBA, File Transfer Protocol servers.  • Performed network and interface configurations including firewalls using  IPTABLES  • Installed and maintained the operating system and related software products as well as other applications needed.  417 5th Avenue South, Wolf Point, MT 59201  Email: fharrison237@yahoo.com Cell: 406-688-8620    • Created and maintained IT documentation; worked with development and IT  teams to maintain all operational systems.  • Created and Managed file systems (EXT 4).  • Assisted in the research, evaluation, testing, selection, procurement, implementation and maintenance of new software/hardware/ systems.  • Participated in database design and implementation.  • Generated reports for use by senior management and cross-functional teams.  • Configured NFS, FTP, DHCP, and DNS on servers.  • Participated in root-cause analysis of recurring issues, system backup and security setup.  • Supported system users and troubleshot system issues.  • Configured volume groups and logical volumes, extended logical volumes for file  system growth needs using Logical Volume Manager (LVM) commands  • Maintained system accounting files and logs and systems error logs.  • Installed and Configured Veritas Volume Manager, Veritas File system and Veritas Cluster Server.  • Working knowledge of PUPPET as a configuration automation tool.  • Working knowledge of Light-Weight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP)  • Working knowledge of Nagios as a monitoring tool  • Working knowledge of Netapp for enterprise level storage area network(SAN)  • Working knowledge of PowerShell and Python scripting.  • Working knowledge of Tomcat.  • Working knowledge of C programming.  • Working knowledge of Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Working knowledge of Git, GitHub and GitLab. CentOS 7 and Ubuntu 2014 to 2016 Created/managed user accounts and permissions in Active Directory on windows  domain controllers and via command line on Linux servers.  • Performed daily system checks and documentation.  • Verified network configurations, performed security scans and set baselines.  • Created documentation of new IT procedures and updated old procedures as needed.  • Responded to helpdesk tickets, reset user credentials, and provided technical  support.  • Performed Active Directory review.  • Performed printer standardization review.  • Processed invoices through Accounts Payable.  • Managed company-wide IT projects.  • Trained employees and end users on new products and policies.  • Maintained and coordinated repairs/replacement of hardware.  • Performed maintenance, repair and proper software operation of company  computers and hardware.  • Provided technical support and equipment maintenance in Microsoft Windows  and Linux environment.  • Participated in database design and implementation.  • Maintained virtual servers (both Windows and Linux) hosted on VMware  (vSphere client).  • Maintained and monitored remote servers and PCs through Putty, IntelAdmin  and Remote Desktop Connection.  • Troubleshot system issues.  • Monitored/maintained Local area networks (LANs) using WhatsUpGold.  • Familiar with Checkpoint firewall.  • Participated in on-call rotation.  • Provided prompt and friendly customer service.  417 5th Avenue South, Wolf Point, MT 59201  Email: fharrison237@yahoo.com Cell: 406-688-8620 Education Montgomery College - Hyattsville, MD 2014 to 2016