Facilities Management Clerk Facilities Management Clerk Facilities Management Clerk Plantation, FL To attain a position as a Network Administrator or Support IT Professional. Work Experience Facilities Management Clerk United States Marine Corps August 2018 to June 2019 Managed the distribution of dorms throughout the camp to all personnel (4000 Marines).  ? Directed and organized work orders for all issues pertaining to living space discrepancies, creating overall satisfaction with quality of life. Help Desk Supervisor United States Marine Corps July 2017 to July 2018 Oversaw daily operations of the Battalion Help Desk, maintaining the operational  integrity of the network.  ? Evaluated possible deficiencies within the LAN (Local Area Network) and devise  accurate responses to ensure 100% network capability.  ? Directed and organized the process of the Battalion (1000 users) receiving accounts and network access for deployment.  ? Excelled in the successful distribution of 400 assets being connected both to an unclassified and classified network. Data Systems Administrator United States Marine Corps May 2015 to July 2017 Constructed and tore down expedient LANs (Local Area Network) and WANs (Wide  Area Network) when conducting field training exercises within the unit.  ? Established connections with approved satellites to provide internet capabilities  throughout the network.  ? Administered the creation and distribution of Network Accounts relating with secret and unclassified access to sensitive material.  ? Maintained the integrity of PII (personal identifiable information) for users (1000)  throughout the networks. Additional Information Driven, results-oriented, highly motivated IT and Data Systems Administrator. Proven ability to  adapt to changing IT and network conditions, while accurately evaluating problems and creating  relevant solutions. Adept in interpreting complicated infrastructure defects with the proven  ability to disseminate    Relevant skills include:    ? Three years of IT experience  ? Identifying and resolving infrastructure problems  ? Maintaining and updating necessary software and tools  ? Network retention by backing up configurations  ? Adaptable and quick to learn new processes and tools  ? Proficient in Microsoft Office (Excel, Word, Power Point)  ? Secret Clearance