Junior Systems Administrator/ Systems Administrator Junior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/<span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Junior Systems Administrator/ Systems Administrator Dallas, TX Work Experience Junior Systems Administrator/ Systems Administrator OMS Dental February 2018 to August 2018 Oversaw an organization's computer network, which involved more than 12 satellite office locations,  performed system maintenance on software, hardware and configurations when needed.  • Keeping an eye on the WAN/LAN network environment that includes internet access, software  applications and switches; resolving network failure errors by troubleshooting WAN/LAN connections  • Investigating, resolving and closing user reported PC problems and application issues through our  ticketing system  • Installing, configuring and deploying new PCs & Servers  • Perform operating system software updates, upgrades and patches  • Performs administration activities such as setting user accounts, roles, access, and privileges  • Providing a high level of customer service at all times  • Discussed potential problems with network and computer usage with other staff members and explained how to get the best performance from individual workstations.  • Completed repairs or submitted replacement orders for equipment that wasn't performing at capacity. Information Systems Technician Second Class Navy Information Ordinance Command San Diego December 2016 to April 2017 Served as work center supervisor during personnel manning shortages and lead 7 sailors in the process of inventorying 10,827 items during the hospital wall-to-wall inventory, which generated a 96%  accountability rate.    Information Systems Technician Second Class working at (NIOC) Navy Information Ordinance Command  San Diego( Dec2016-Apr2017)  • System administration on the NSA network requires the personnel meet all the requirements of routine users plus the requirements of privileged access (PRIVAC) Tier 2 users. The Active Directory  suite hosted at NIOC San Diego supports over 230 endpoints.  • The scope of these tasks includes all of NIOC San Diego proper (Naval Bases Coronado and San  Diego) and the following customer sites; FITCPAC, Commander THIRD Fleet, Naval Postgraduate School  Monterey, CIDLS Monterey, and NIOC Whidbey Island.  • Network administration tasks cover external communication circuits and infrastructure equipment;  switches, crypto devices, GPS devices, patch panels, fiber and copper cables.  • In addition to performing the duties of the command NSA Help Desk, this group must also man  a phone watch to respond to issues from remote customers, NSA Texas and the Global Enterprise  Command Center (GECC) during normal working hours. The Help Desk coordinates planned evolutions with the GECC and keeps them informed of the status of casualties.  • Perform duties as NSA Information System Security Officers (ISSO) and support to two NSA national  missions.  • The IT support services tasks cover critical power (CP) and nine heating, ventilation, and air  conditioning (HVAC) systems. There are eight four ton systems and one wall mounted three ton  system. The critical power system includes; two emergency diesel generator sets (GENSET), an automatic transfer switch (ATS), uninterruptable power supply (UPS), main switch breakers (MSB),  distribution panels (DP), power panels (PP) and wiring. The HVAC systems include; air compressors, air  handlers and ducting. The scopes of these tasks are limited building 335 only.  • As one of SW Region Local Element, this system is a United States National Security Agency led  program responsible for Communications Security (COMSEC) key management and accounting  servicing unclassified and classified servers and accounts.  • PKI account creation in support of NSA log in verification and encryption.  • Manage the command's internal and public-facing websites. These sites include; NIPRNET public- facing and SharePoint sites, SIPRNET Collaboration-At-Sea (CAS) and SharePoint sites and the NSAnet  LinkShare Portal.  • The VTC support is conducted weekly at least 3 times a week with multiple high priority conferences  throughout the day. Information Systems Technician Second Class Depth January 2015 to December 2016 Led 7 micro repair sailors identifying 480 malfunctioning computers and the check-in, imaging and re- issue of 420 repaired computers to customers, which resulted in a 94% customer survey's satisfaction  rate for 6,000 personnel in NMCSD and 23 outlying branch health clinics.  ? Processed 270 trouble tickets and imaged 120 computers.