Quality Supervisor Quality Supervisor Quality Supervisor - Medline Industries Atlanta, GA EDUCATION CAREER OBJECTIVE Work Experience Quality Supervisor Medline Industries - Douglasville, GA October 2018 to Present Harty Bake | Douglasville, GA | Quality Supervisor  The key contact point for quality assurance. Follows and adheres to all monitoring and inspection Quality  Supervises and directs numerous of tasks and work responsibilities for Assurance procedures. Performs process, product packaging,  inspectors. Coordinates shift coverage and strategically create and pre-operation inspections.Prepares all lines paperwork as schedules for all shifts. Mentors, trains thoroughly, and develop needed. Performs inspection of raw material. Maintains all QA  knowledgeable and dependable quality assurance inspectors.Reviews records as required.  important documents daily. Supports supplier quality projects. Initiate Ensures all is within compliance by abiding by all established  corrective actions requests when appropriate. Checks and access policies and procedures.Run trending reports of complaints  inventory. and initiate corrective action requests where appropriate.  Assists with preparing the plant ready for internal and external  auditors. Identifies specific training needs and organizes  training interventions to meet all quality standards. Systems Administrator Anthony International - Conyers, GA September 2016 to October 2018 Lead/Quality Inspector/Supervisor Responsible for maintaining highly visible production systems.  Responsible for leading teams. Interprets company policies to Installing and configuring software, hardware and networks.  workers and enforces safety regulations. Recommends Monitoring system performance and. troubleshooting issues.  measures to improve production methods, equipment Ensuring security and efficiency of IT infrastructure.Make  performance, and quality of product.Analyzes and resolves recommendations on test and evaluation strategies for major  work problems or assists workers in solving work systems installations.Develop or specify standards, methods, or problems.Data Collection.Demonstrates use of Microsoft procedures to determine product quality or release  skills when needed. Inspects incoming product from readiness.Monitor bug resolution efforts and track  suppliers.Daily direct interaction with purchasing, inside successes.Identify program deviance from standards and suggest  sales, engineering.Recommends adjustments to the assembly modifications to ensure compliance.Identify, analyze, document  and production process. Assess the quality of materials and problems with program function, output, online screen, content.  products that are being produced. Investigate customer problems referred by technical support.  Participate in product design reviews to provide input on functional requirements, product designs, schedules, or potential  problems. Education Bachelors of Science in Computer Science in customer service Georgia Piedmont Technical College - Atlanta, GA August 2018 to 2020 Skills QA, Quality Assurance, Quality Control