Business Applications Director Business Applications Director ERP Project Manager/ Systems Director New York, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Business Applications Director New York, NY July 2017 to Present Responsible for planning, design, and roll-out of changes and enhancements to the AX system  modules, including billing, GL, procurement, time & expense management, project management, workflow, and HR. Collaborate with cross-functional agency groups to ensure that business  requirements are delivered through successful implementations. Oversee the systems administration  team responsible for the day-to-day support of the Dynamics AX ERP system.    ? Direct the activity of the global ERP system as a member of a Global Systems Architecture  Committee that manages change, customization and system deployments  ? Perform QA and regression testing on system bugs, as well as new and changed functionality  ? Manage a team including system managers, analysts and administrators located in the U.S. and India that support the ERP system and centralized Help Desk  ? Acted as functional subject matter expert for U.S. Shared Service Center during global  Dynamics AX version and cloud file share management upgrade  ? Assisted with onboarding over 20 Omnicom agencies to the Shared Service Center  standardized processes along with implementing approximately 2,000 users to Dynamics  AX Senior ERP Project Manager Havas Worldwide, Inc January 2015 to June 2017 Ensured successful delivery of a multi-million dollar ERP implementation project as measured by schedule, budget and quality performance measures. Oversaw resource allocations and supervised day to day tasks of internal project team, vendor and independent consultants. Communicated project  status with regular frequency, manage risks and issues, and monitor overall team performance.    ? Led project team through multiple full-cycle Agresso ERP implementations for U.S. and Canada utilizing Waterfall methodology during initial implementation and mixing Agile  methods for subsequent implementations.  ? Partnered with Subject Matter Experts and Operations managers to analyze and ensure  business processes align with new system functionality  ? Created and maintained comprehensive project documentation, including project plans, status  reports, task logs, and team schedules  ? Assisted with end-user training, testing and user guide manual writing as well as assisted with system support where necessary Accounting Systems Manager The Population Council April 2010 to January 2015 Developed and managed the domestic & international accounting systems including Dynamics GP, Fund EZ, FRx, Crystal Reports, Workplace eProcurement, and various internal applications for  reporting, timesheets & budgeting. Responsible for the training & support of end users. Worked with third-party vendors for enhancements, new product development and system customizations.    ? Directed the upgrade of the U.S. accounting system as well as collaborated with developers  to upgrade all GP customizations and create an automated GL Import program  ? Served as a member of a Global Strategic Planning committee to research, gather stakeholder  input, and evaluate the focus, direction and business processes of the organization  ? Negotiated and led the effort of a global online purchase requisition system; served as project  manager and lead consultant for the initial implementation in 3 U.S. offices  ? Developed a dashboard tool utilizing Business Intelligence that consolidates key financial data  from multiple business systems for financial analysis and executive management review Financial Systems Consultant Independent Contactor June 2009 to March 2010 Implemented accounting modules in Dynamics AX and GP. Managed client projects independently.  Facilitated discussions with the client and project teams to understand needs, team goals, and solutions  for clients. Designed and conducted testing modules based on the requirements outlined in the specification documentation. Created user guides and train accounting staff on accounting modules and FRx reporting. Financial Systems Manager GroupM July 2006 to February 2009 Evaluated inefficient work processes to create productive ones and introduced automation through software. Tracked agency financial systems and worked with both internal users and third-party  vendors regarding enhancements, upgrades and customizations.  ? Spearheaded agency-wide general ledger project to convert disparate systems including Great  Plains, QuickBooks, GEAC and DDS into one standardized Dynamics AX system  ? Strategically restructured web-based expense report processing, workflow and staff to improve operational efficiency and reimbursement cycles  ? Automated online travel approval workflow to expedite bookings and reduce airfare costs Business Systems Analyst Studley, Inc July 2004 to December 2005 Led teams in developing system applications including Great Plains & Solomon. Interacted with top  executives concerning financial results and reports produced by accounting and broker systems.  Coordinated resources and managed relationship with third-party Microsoft software vendors.  ? Led the effort in creating a customized Microsoft SharePoint/ASP.net broker billing system  ? Collaborated with over 20 U.S. offices to conduct testing and training of broker system  ? Revamped G/L, reports and schedules to standardize accounting procedures Senior Accountant/Financial Systems Administrator Omnicom Group, Inc August 2002 to July 2004 Analyzed results and prepared detailed variance reports. Managed the implementation and development of internal system projects, including the allocation and scheduling of resources for  deployment of Great Plains to Omnicom subsidiaries.  ? Completed quarterly Hyperion reporting packages for group consolidation  ? Administered the financial systems of the Corporate Accounting department, including over  30 Great Plains SQL databases  ? Successfully carried out accounts payable improvements such as MICR check printing and EFT payment processing  ? Championed seamless version upgrade of Great Plains software and customized packages Education Bachelor of Science in Accounting Ohio State University - Columbus, OH Skills Dynamics, Erp, Project plans, Software design, Sql server, Sql, Large-scale, Assurance testing, Visio, Accounting, Financial analysis, Financial reporting, Gl, Reconciliations, Ap, Ar, Training, Documentation, Project documentation, Excel, Powerpoint, Word, budget, Strategic Planning, Management Certifications/Licenses CPA Present PMP Present Assessments Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qf-mxev-sfi-9gok Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE  ? Implementing and managing large-scale ? Maintaining project documentation such  ERP applications such as Microsoft as status reports, project plans, action  Dynamics and Unit4 Agresso item and task lists  ? Software design & development, quality ? Preparing user guides, supporting and  assurance testing, managing internal & conducting end user training  external consultants ? Microsoft Office Excel, Project, Visio,  ? Identifying business needs to specify PowerPoint and SQL Server Mgt Studio  requirements for strategic goals ? Accounting functions such as GL, AP,  ? Leading project teams and collaborating AR, financial analysis, reconciliations  across functional areas to achieve project and financial reporting  deliverables