Director of IT Operations Director of IT Operations Director of IT Operations - Breckenridge Grand Vacations Fruita, CO Work Experience Director of IT Operations Breckenridge Grand Vacations - Breckenridge, CO 2018 to Present My responsibilities expanded to include budget ownership and being given more  latitude to guide the IT Operations team into the future. I was also named to a Lead  Team that focuses on new business initiatives, drives communication and change within the company while working closely with the Executive Team. The IT Ops  Team expanded to a team of eight. Following these changes I have guided the  team through a network assessment and a security assessment in an effort to keep  our technology fresh and build culture of security across the company. As part of the network refresh we have begun to implement an SD WAN solution in partnership with Comcast. IT Operations Manager Breckenridge Grand Vacations - Breckenridge, CO 2011 to 2018 Opportunity was given to me to add management responsibilities to my job role in  2011. In this role I managed the workload and workflow of all service desk requests  in the managed service provider software we had implemented in 2005. I had a team of three technical support specialists that reported to me in 2011. In  2014-2015 I led the projects to redesign our network infrastructure and move our  growing hardware stack to a level 3 data center The team grew to four technical  support specialists and one systems administrator over the next couple of years.  During this time I led a project to replace our service desk software with Zendesk to better serve our end users. With the rollout of this new solution I also wrote and  implemented a service level agreement to increase accountability for the team as well as manage and communicate expectations for our end users. Led negotiations of our Microsoft Enterprise Agreement which led to our migration to Office 365. Systems Administrator Breckenridge Grand Vacations - Breckenridge, CO 2010 to 2011 Rejoined the IT team at Breckenridge Grand Vacations and picked up where I had  left off with the virtualization initiative that had stalled. Built the VMware platform into a three node host cluster and virtualized 95% of the server environment. I was also  responsible for end point security, network security, patching, and an on premises  Exchange 2010 environment. Systems Engineer UDR - Littleton, CO 2008 to 2010 Joined the network team of three other individuals to design, implement, and manage a large VMware platform of 20+ hosts supported by Cisco network gear  and EMC storage array in a data center environment. Assisted in authoring a disaster recover plan and stood up a warm site with identical hardware with near live  data replication. I was also responsible for the backup and recovery processes and systems using deduplication and snapshot technology. Obtained an early version of  a VMware certification in 2008. IT Technician/ Systems Administrator Breckenridge Grand Vacations - Breckenridge, CO 2003 to 2008 Started as a member of a two person IT team that was responsible for everything from end user support to design, implementation, and administration of all  technology systems including software, hardware, and network infrastructure.  Implemented business processes and managed service provider software to managed workflow and maintenance of all systems. Led a project to migrate our  existing NT 4.0 environment to a Windows 2003 Active Directory environment. The  IT team grew over the five years to include three technical support specialists in addition to our Director of IT and myself as the Systems Administrator. Led the  VMware virtualization initiative in an effort to save costs on hardware in our on premises data center. Education B.S. in Computer Science in Computer Science Colorado State University - Fort Collins, CO 2001 Skills Active Directory (10+ years), data center (10+ years), network security (5 years), security (5 years), virtualization (10+ years), exchange (10+ years), Vmware (10+ years), Network Administration (10+ years), Customer Service (10+ years), Strategic Planning (4 years), Cisco, SQL, Disaster Recovery, HTML, VoIP Additional Information Skills  Scrum certified, Project Management, WAN/LAN/SD Networking, OSI Model,  Virtualization, Cloud Infrastructure and Management, Data Center Design and  Administration, Active Directory, Active Directory Federated Services, Single Sign-  on, Office 365, Documentation, SQL, Windows OS, Mac OS, Linux/Unix OS, Group  Policy, Information/Network Security, Zendesk