Salesforce Administrator and Relationship Manager Salesforce <span class="hl">Administrator</span> and Relationship Manager Salesforce Administrator and Relationship Manager - Step Up For Students Tampa, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Administrator and Relationship Manager Step Up For Students - Clearwater, FL November 2016 to Present Analysis, administration, and data management  Leverage cases and case management for end user support.  Train current and new users on use of the database including internal best practices.  Ensure quality of data for reporting and metrics to meet fundraising goals for Advancement department.  Recommend measures to continually improve quality and accuracy of data.  Work around limitations of the database and develop unique solutions to problems.  Responsible for list segmentation for electronic communications using Salesforce and HubSpot integration. Marketing Systems & Data Analyst CRDF Global - Arlington, VA November 2014 to 2016 Salesforce Administrator for 150 users across multiple departments: B&P, Solutions, Fundraising, Programs, Marketing, Media.  Collaborate with management to build internal processes and implement processes in Salesforce. Create org-wide defaults, security settings, fields, custom objects, etc.  Maintain training materials for users and train staff individually and in small group/team settings.  Import, export, update, upsert data using Data Loader.  Demand Tools to cleanse data and maintain data integrity.    PROJECT  Step Up For Students Multi-Department Implementation  Description SUFS hired a third-party vendor to implement additional departments into the system.  Role Assist as second project manager and sole system administrator working alongside project manager and consultant.  Responsibilities  Liaise with key internal stakeholders to ensure needs were met from consultant work, assist in analyzing requirements and solutions, UAT - logged in as multiple users, sign-off on validation stage, admin trainings post-deployment to understand the additions to the system, sit in and partake in all calls, including end-user trainings. Education B.A. in Communication Marketing & Professional Writing College of Liberal Arts and Human Sciences - Blacksburg, VA May 2013 Skills Salesforce, Salesforce Admin Links http://Force.com