Enterprise Systems Specialist - Analyst Enterprise <span class="hl">Systems</span> Specialist - Analyst Enterprise Systems Specialist - Analyst - Unisys Midlothian, VA Senior Systems Administrator with more than 19 years providing professional subject matter expertise support for large technical infrastructures. Proficiently manage and maintain hardware platforms that include Microsoft Windows operating systems, and related applications. Efficiently work in large high-availability and high-security enterprise technology environments. Innately multitasks, provide excellent customer services, communicate well with management, and exhibit effective leadership skills toward team members. Work Experience Enterprise Systems Specialist - Analyst Unisys - Chester, VA December 2018 to Present * Provide tier 3 support for multiple types of Windows systems across a large distributed network.  * Analyze and resolve complex system problems utilizing technical resources.  * Diagnose and resolve system failures, both hardware and software.  * Lead and participate in projects that involve several IT departments and different customers.  * Install, configure, and maintain hardware systems and applications.  * Manage SSL certificates for state agencies across the Commonwealth. Senior Systems Administrator Science Applications International Corporation - Chester, VA August 2018 to December 2018 * Provide tier 3 support for multiple types of Windows systems across a large distributed network.  * Assisted the Commonwealth complete a smooth operational transition from Northrop Grumman to the new service contractor, Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC).  * Analyze and resolve complex system problems utilizing technical resources.  * Diagnose and resolve system failures, both hardware and software.  * Technical Lead for all 2018 election servers for the Commonwealth of Virginia. Computer Support 4 / Systems Administrator 3 Northrop Grumman - Chester, VA November 2007 to August 2018 * Provide tier 3 support for multiple types of Windows systems across a large distributed network.  * Understand network principles and common network protocols.  * Can work independently to multitask and manage time across multiple projects.  * Basic knowledge of Active Directory, SSL certificate administration, and security practices.  * Analyze and resolve complex system problems utilizing technical resources.  * Diagnose system failures, both hardware and software.  * Create and maintain system, procedure, and policy documentation.  * Lead and participate in projects that involve several IT departments and different customers.  * Install, configure, and maintain hardware systems and applications.  * Experience working in high-availability, high-security, critical environments.  * Participate in on-call rotations and support critical systems after-hours and on weekends.  * Create and maintain system documentation and hardware inventory.  * Interact with customers to provide excellent, professional services and comprehensive solutions.  * Research and provide initial findings and root cause analysis of operational issues and system errors.  * Adhere to corporate security guidelines, procedures, and processes.  * Create and maintain written procedures and instructions tied to various systems and applications.  * Effectively and efficiently resolve problem and request tickets in an enterprise environment. Systems Administrator TEKsystems - Richmond, VA April 2007 to November 2007 * Manage Microsoft Windows systems for the Commonwealth of Virginia.  * Diagnose and resolve issues in a highly distributed enterprise environment.  * Assist top-tier server engineers with assigned duties and projects.  * Develop and write new documentation for a number of internal procedures. Windows Application Support Media General, Inc - Richmond, VA June 2004 to April 2007 * Install, configure, and troubleshoot a variety of operating systems and applications.  * Maintain and resolve user and computer account issues within Microsoft Active Directory.  * Setup and configure handheld devices that included BlackBerry and Palm.  * Monitor, evaluate, and prioritize requests via the CA Help Desk software.  * Evaluate, confirm, and resolve matters related to service level agreements.  * Deliver tailored-made support to top company executives.  * Provide tier 3 support to Desktop Support Technicians. Desktop Support Technician Media General, Inc - Richmond, VA August 2003 to June 2004 * Setup and maintain computer systems for end-users.  * Evaluate and replace hardware components including computers and printers.  * Work with end-users daily to resolve problems and issues.  * Manage daily tasks and duties through the Help Desk software. Computer Operator Media General, Inc - Richmond, VA January 2000 to July 2003 * Work within several hardware and software environments.  * Provide technical support for hundreds of end-users in several locations.  * Operate several application platforms - Microsoft Office, Help Desk software, and Print Services. Media General, Inc - Richmond, VA May 2003 to May 2003 * Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP)  * Certified - ITIL v3 Foundations  * Training - CompTIA Security+ Course and Study work  * Training - Lean Six Sigma Yellow Belt  * Training - Agile Engineering 101 (Scrum) workshop  * Training - Installing and Configuring Windows Server 2012 (Passed Microsoft Exam 70-410)  * Training - Administering Windows Server 2012 (Passed Microsoft Exam 70-411) Education Bachelor's in Business - Information Systems Virginia Commonwealth University - Richmond, VA August 1998 to May 2003 Skills System Administrator, Active Directory Additional Information Technical Expertise  • Microsoft Windows Platforms  • NetBackup and EMC Avamar (Client/Server side)  • Hardware Platforms include HP, Dell, IBM, and Cisco McAfee Applications (Client/Server side security)  • Symantec Applications  • VMware vSphere 6.0 & 6.5    Education, Professional Development, and Certifications  • Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP)  • Certified - ITIL v3 Foundations  • Training - CompTIA Security+ Course and Study work  • Training - Lean Six Sigma Yellow Belt  • Training - Agile Engineering 101 (Scrum) workshop  • Training - Installing and Configuring Windows Server 2012 (Passed Microsoft Exam 70-410)  • Training - Administering Windows Server 2012 (Passed Microsoft Exam 70-411)