Senior Information Systems Auditor Senior Information <span class="hl">Systems</span> Auditor Senior Information Systems Auditor Atlanta, GA Quality-driven and practical IT professional with six years of experience aligning business systems with business policies and guidelines. Looking to bring strong analytical and problem-solving skills to an industry-leading organization. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Information Systems Auditor Equifax - Alpharetta, GA May 2018 to Present • Perform and administer technical audits to ensure efficiency, accuracy and cost effectiveness of the organization's technology operations.  • Determine the operation's consistency with technology organizational objectives and standards through various verification procedures and methods.  • Demonstrate the ability to identify internal control risks, business risks, and operational cost reduction opportunities.  • Prepare concise and well-organized working papers which accurately reflect the audit tests performed.  • Discuss preliminary audit findings with management directly responsible for resolution.  • Prepare reports on the results of the audit and provide recommendations on improvements. ServiceNow Administrator Equifax - Alpharetta, GA August 2015 to May 2018 • Responsible for ServiceNow system configuration, requirements gathering and documenting, and workflow customizations. Provide level 2 ServiceNow support for employees.  • Manage data within tables, the configuration management database (CMDB), import sets, and update sets.  • Configure ServiceNow user interface, UI policies, data policies, UI actions, business rules, client scripts, configure alerts and notifications.  • Service catalog owner.  • Add users, groups, and roles.  • Collaborate with team members to look for ways to continuously improve our enterprise platform related processes (i.e. Incident Management, Problem Management, Change Management, etc.).  • Change/Service Request/Incident/Problem management reporting.  • Provide global ServiceNow technical training. Education Master of Information Technology in Information Technology Kennesaw State University - Kennesaw, GA September 2017 Bachelor of Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems Georgia State University Atlanta September 2010 Skills audit (1 year), CSS (Less than 1 year), database (2 years), DB2 (Less than 1 year), documentation (Less than 1 year), HTML (Less than 1 year), IT Audit (Less than 1 year), JavaScript (Less than 1 year), life cycle (Less than 1 year), Maximo (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Office (Less than 1 year), MS OFFICE (Less than 1 year), PAYMENT CARD INDUSTRY (Less than 1 year), PCI (Less than 1 year), SARBANES OXLEY (Less than 1 year), SARBANES-OXLEY (SOX) (Less than 1 year), Security (Less than 1 year), Software development (Less than 1 year), Software development life cycle (Less than 1 year), system configuration (2 years) Certifications/Licenses ServiceNow Certified System Administrator August 2016 to Present ITIL Foundation Certification April 2015 to Present