Senior Systems Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Senior Systems Engineer - Mood Media Corporation Scottsboro, AL • Seasoned IT professional with twenty plus years of experience in the field.  • 20 years spent performing Systems Administration and supporting company infrastructure, specializing in Windows and Unix Systems and applications.  • Responsible for small and medium sized company's IT infrastructure. Work Experience Senior Systems Engineer Mood Media Corporation - Norcross, GA February 2012 to Present • Manage virtual infrastructure environment running on VMWare and MS Virtual server.  • Maintain Active Directory and Group Policy  • Setup and maintain rules on Microsoft Internet Security and Acceleration server.  • Assist junior Systems Administrators as needed.  • Maintain DNS and DHCP.  • Plan, manage and implement IT Projects.  • Managed Company's email environment through Gmail interface  • Maintain company's Unix environment, consisting of Centos and Red Hat Enterprise Linux.  • Troubleshoot server hardware and software related issues. Senior Systems Architect S1 Corporation - Norcross, GA March 2011 to February 2012 • Manage VMWare Infrastructure environment with thousands of guest machines.  • Plan and recommend upgrades to company systems and environment.  • Plan, manage and implement IT projects.  • Assist junior Systems Administrators as needed.  • Manage Active Directory and Group Policy.  • Maintain Corporate Unix/Linux environment consisting of AIX and Red Hat Linux servers.  • Schedule patching of company assets.  • Setup and manage IBM/NetApp SAN solutions.  • Maintain DNS and DHCP.  • Troubleshoot hardware and software related issues. Contract - Systems Administrator United States Army - Atlanta, GA February 2010 to March 2011 • Supervise personnel in daily activities.  • Manage deployment of new software and operating systems.  • Manage Active Directory.  • Troubleshoot and remediate issues related to group policy.  • Maintain DNS and DHCP.  • Troubleshoot user issues relating to Operating Systems and Applications.  • Setup and manage thin client access to Citrix Servers.  • Manage Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5.0 servers running thin client application.  • Setup and manage VOIP phone systems using Cisco Unified Communications Manager. Contract - Microsoft Exchange Administrator General Electric - Atlanta, GA September 2009 to February 2010 • Maintain over 40 clustered exchange servers with over 150000 mailboxes.  • Administer Blackberry servers running BES 4.1 with over 15000 Blackberry accounts.  • Responsible for Calendar and email synchronization to mobile devices.  • Managed HP EVA 4000 SAN solutions.  • Monitor backups and resolve any issues using Veritas NetBackup. IT Consultant The Intersect Group - Atlanta, GA February 2008 to September 2009 • Administered active directory and windows services and applications.  • Migrated 2 different customers from Windows 2003 to Windows 2008.  • Performed recovery operations as needed.  • Manage Exchange & Blackberry systems and services.  • Troubleshot blackberry connectivity issues on MS Exchange.  • Provision of NetApp SAN.  • Manage virtual machines running on VMware, Microsoft Virtual Server and  • Windows 2008 Hyper-V.  • Managed system patches and updates using WSUS.  • Manage backup systems using Data Protector, NetVault and Veritas Net Backup.  • Documented internal control policies and procedures related to SOX.  • Performed System upgrades in accordance with Change Management Policies.  • Setup monitoring and reporting of customer servers to facilitate in avoiding server downtime.  • Migrated customers SQL 2005 Databases from Israel to US.  • Setup, and managed customers Unix servers to include HP-UX 11i, Fedora Core 10, and Centos 5.0.  • Monitored customer's networks and servers using RHEL 4.0 and Nagios.  • Setup and managed FTP server running on RHEL 4.0. Windows/Unix Systems Administrator Glenayre Electronics Inc - Atlanta, GA June 2000 to February 2008 Supported company with over 3800 users worldwide communicating regularly with company  management and external auditors.  • Maintained over 20 Unix servers. Operating systems included Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Red Hat Workstation, CentOS, and Sun Solaris versions 6 thru 10.  • Setup and maintain Domain Name Service for the Unix and Windows domain.  • Migrated development environment from Solaris to Red Hat Linux.  • Administer Network Information Services.  • Planned and implemented closure of 5 company offices.  • Setup daily and weekly backup schedules.  • Setup and provision of EqualLogic SAN.  • Administer Symantec Enterprise Antivirus and Mail Gateway for SMTP.  • Setup and administer Exchange 2003.  • Provide support to Software Development Lab servers running Red Hat Linux AS 3.0 and 4.0.  • Performed Monthly recovery testing to validate backups.  • Maintained over 40 Windows servers in a single enterprise environment.  • Virtualized machines to run on VMware.  • Configured and install Cisco switches.  • Blackberry Enterprise Server Administrator with over 100 Blackberry users.  • Migrated Blackberry servers from version 3.6 to 4.0 and then to 4.1. Skills Aix, Linux, Red hat, Solaris, Omniback, Exchange, Netbackup, Veritas, Arcserve, Ms office, Microsoft exchange, Windows 2000, Windows 7, Windows vista, Windows xp, Window 2008, Windows 2012, Windows 2016, Windows 10 Certifications/Licenses A+ Present Network+ Present Security+ Present Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating Systems: Solaris, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Centos, HPUX 10 and 11, AIX, Windows 2000,  2003, Windows 2008, Windows 2016 Windows 7, Windows Vista, Windows XP.  Applications: MS Office Suite, Windows Server Updates Services, Microsoft Exchange, Norton Anti-Virus, McAfee VirusScan.  Backup Software: Veritas NetBackup, OmniBack, Data Protector Arcserve