CyberSecurity SME CyberSecurity SME Sr. Systems Engineer - USAF - GCSS-AF/CCE Common Computing Environment Montgomery, AL To obtain a position that will challenge my current skills and allow for continued growth in the Information Security and Technology field. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience CyberSecurity SME USAF - AF CCE- BTAS, Inc. - Maxwell AFB Gunter Annex, AL March 2017 to Present Work closely with software engineers supporting and troubleshooting the deployment GCSS-AF software on government-provided infrastructure. Conduct, schedule, and participate in meetings on behalf of the ISSM. Advise and assist associated organizations POCs in their efforts to prepare and submit ATO, Annual Review (AR) and Authority to Connect (ATC) packages to their respective approval authorities. Review and maintain system-specific Risk Assessment Reports, Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M), System Security Plans (SSP), Application Security and Development Checklists and other artifacts supporting software certification and accreditation to identify areas for Enterprise Cybersecurity & Cyber Resiliency opportunities for improvement. Test IA security controls and manage data within the Enterprise Mission Assurance Support Service (eMASS) for GCSS-AF. Perform audit and application scanning for all programs pertaining to GCSS-AF using ESPS Toolkit and ACAS scans. Create customized OS & application baselines for Unix/Linux utilizing various COT’s/GOT’s SW solutions. Excellent oral and written communication skills. Excellent problem solving techniques and customer service. Active Security Clearance. Sr. Systems Engineer USAF - CIE - Maxwell AFB Gunter Annex, AL September 2013 to March 2017 USAF - CIE (Capabilities Integration Environment)  AAC Inc. /Exeter Government Services, LLC 09/2013-Present  Maxwell AFB Gunter Annex, AL United States  Sr. Systems Engineer    Provide OS support(Solaris & Linux) for Air Force applications. Install, configure, troubleshoot, maintain and secure Solaris & Red Hat Linux in both physical and virtual operating environments. Extensive experience installing OS and firmware patches. Manage and resolve complex operability issues using Enterprise Systems Management (ESM) tools such as Tivoli, Veritas Netbackup, Remedy Action Request System, SecureCRT and Bladelogic. Extensive experience in configuration and operation of server high availability and cluster fail-over using Veritas Cluster, RHEL Cluster and VMWare. Extensive experience using Veritas Netbackup to perform system backup and recovery. Extensive experience configuring and managing logical storage devices on SAN and NAS/NFS. Experience assessing server performance, availability, capacity and configuration problems. Excellent oral and written communication skills. Excellent problem solving techniques. Sr. Unix System Administrator I S Technologies, LLC - Maxwell AFB Gunter Annex, AL August 2007 to September 2013 Responsibilities  Provide OS support (Solaris & RHEL) for mission critical Air Force applications, including the Air Force Portal, the GCSS-AF (Global Combat Support System) program, the FORGE.mil program and ACES/IWIMS. Install, configure, troubleshoot, maintain and secure Solaris & Red Hat Linux in both physical and virtual operating environments. Install and configure commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) applications and software/hardware enhancement products. Extensive experience installing OS and firmware patches. Manage and resolve complex operability issues using Enterprise Systems Management (ESM) tools such as Tivoli, Veritas Netbackup, Remedy Action Request System, SecureCRT and Bladelogic. Extensive experience in configuration and operation of server high availability and cluster fail-overs using Veritas Cluster, RHEL Cluster and VMWare. Extensive experience using Veritas Netbackup to perform system backups and recovery. Extensive experience configuring and managing logical storage devices on SAN and NAS/NFS. Experience in utilization and modification of shell scripts to automate manual server tasks and validate results from scripts. Experience in troubleshooting monitoring scripts, analyzing systems logs and identifying potential issues with Unix operating environments. Experience assessing server performance, availability, capacity and configuration problems. Excellent oral and written communication skills. Excellent problem solving techniques. Work closely with customer to identify and resolve their needs. Senior Unix System Administrator Unisys Corporation August 2007 to April 2011 Provide OS support (Solaris & RHEL) for mission critical Air Force applications, including the Air Force Portal, the GCSS-AF (Global Combat Support System) program, the FORGE.mil program and ACES/IWIMS. Install, configure, troubleshoot, maintain and secure Solaris & Red Hat Linux in both physical and virtual operating environments. Install and configure commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) applications and software/hardware enhancement products. Extensive experience installing OS and firmware patches. Manage and resolve complex operability issues using Enterprise Systems Management (ESM) tools such as Tivoli, Veritas Netbackup, Remedy Action Request System, SecureCRT and Bladelogic. Extensive experience in configuration and operation of server high availability and cluster fail-overs using Veritas Cluster, RHEL Cluster and VMWare. Extensive experience using Veritas Netbackup to perform system backups and recovery. Extensive experience configuring and managing logical storage devices on SAN and NAS/NFS. Experience in utilization and modification of shell scripts to automate manual server tasks and validate results from scripts. Experience in troubleshooting monitoring scripts, analyzing systems logs and identifying potential issues with Unix operating environments. Experience assessing server performance, availability, capacity and configuration problems. Excellent oral and written communication skills. Excellent problem solving techniques. Work closely with customer to identify and resolve their needs. Systems Engineer L3 HealthSouth Corporation - Birmingham, AL April 2006 to August 2007 Install, configure and maintain Solaris workstations for software analysts. Maintain network installation servers (jumpstart) for Solaris operating environments. Coordinate, confirm and prioritize project plans with the customer. Ensure system backups complete successfully and restore customer files as needed using Veritas Netbackup and eVault. Analyze and resolve problems associated with hardware and application software. Document and test detailed instructions on system recovery in the event of a total loss of processing at a production site. (Disaster Recovery). Systems Analyst Unisys Corporation - Montgomery, AL August 2004 to April 2006 Provide OS support (Solaris & HP) for mission critical Air Force applications. Ensure system backups complete successfully and are available for restore using Veritas Netbackup. Coordinate and implement scheduled maintenance with PMO (program manager). Provide end user support to deployed military personnel, in all branches of service (Army, Air Force, National Guard and Navy). Analyze and resolve problems associated with hardware and application software. Identify and resolve system infrastructure problems. Infrastructure Analyst EDS-BellSouth Account - Birmingham, AL May 1998 to August 2004 Provide OS support for mission critical BellSouth applications. Plan, coordinate, perform and test installations of Solaris UNIX servers. Install quarterly kernel patches to provide security and integrity to the system. Ensure system backups complete successfully and restore customer files as needed. Identify and resolve system infrastructure problems. Analyze and resolve problems associated with hardware and application software. Engage the Problem and Change Management processes as needed and required by the customer. Document detailed instructions on system recovery in the event of a total loss of processing at a production site. (Disaster Recovery). Coordinated documentation efforts with the ISO conformity group.  1998-2001 – 2nd shift team lead from 1999-2001. Local User Coordinator 2nd Shift- Maintain current software levels and virus protections, upgrade hardware as needed/recommended by customer. Set up desktop PC’s for new employees. Distribute software upgrades to Unix and Microsoft systems using an in-house data distribution tool (DDS). Perform 1st and 2nd tier problem resolution to end users of DDS. Provide technical support and troubleshooting to users. Utilize system monitoring tools to identify and correct problems to avoid potential outages. Perform monitoring, surveillance, and 1st tier problem resolution on midrange systems, using Tivoli TME and Unicenter TNG. Education Bachelor's in Business Administration/Management University of Alabama Tuscaloosa - Tuscaloosa, AL May 1997 Skills System Admin, System Administrator, Linux Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ November 2017 to November 2020 TS/SCI clearance