Information Management Senior Specialist Information Management Senior Specialist Information Management Senior Specialist - ACS/Xerox/Atos Port Charlotte, FL Work Experience Information Management Senior Specialist ACS/Xerox/Atos - Celebration, FL 2012 to Present • Moved multiple custom network monitoring applications from Solaris to Linux.  • Created Key Performance Indicator process to report high alerts on specific network devices.  • Created improve billing process for network port counts resulting in increased and stable revenue.  • Converted Telnet network configuration collection process to SSH and reduced run time from over 24  hours to less than 4 hours.  • Enhanced multiple network data collection and monitoring processes to account for changes in the network environment.  • Created custom scripts for NerveCenter application. Senior Systems Administrator CHEP INFORMATION SYSTEMS - Orlando, FL 2000 to 2011 Succeeded in bringing a disorganized enterprise UNIX environment with low reliability to being stable  and with more than 99.99% up-time.  • Created and implemented UNIX disaster recovery procedures moving from a tape based environment  to a disk based replication one. Reduced recovery time from more than 5 days to 16 hours.  • Created automated scripts for collecting critical system configuration information.  • Improved system configuration time from several hours to less than 20 minutes utilizing Solaris Flash  Archive and Jump Start.  • Performed critical fault and performance analysis for systems level and application issues. Was  responsible for discovering several problems dealing with disk, CPU and memory and implementing the appropriate fixes.  • Created automated scripts for user maintenance and security verification.  • Managed over 100 UNIX servers with more than 99.99% up-time.  • Designed and implemented Solaris containers (zones) for test and production system in order to reduce  the numbers of servers providing better efficiencies.  • Designed and implemented Solaris ZFS for production and test system thereby eliminating use of costly volume management technologies. Senior Systems Administrator SIEMENS ICN - Lake Mary, FL 2000 to 2000 • Created automated monitoring scripts for UNIX systems.  • Installed and evaluated system upgrades, both hardware and software. Senior Systems Administrator WALT DISNEY WORLD INFORMATION SYSTEMS 1996 to 2000 WALT DISNEY WORLD INFORMATION SYSTEMS 1995 to 2000 Consultant 1995 to 1996 Principle administrator on UNIX system running critical reservation system. Quickly and successfully  moved the application from older to new servers on three occasions.  • Installed, configured and maintained HP OpenView monitoring tool. Implemented improved scripting  changes to provide customized monitors.  • Implemented Vertias NetBackup for Informix databases. System Programmer KIRCHMAN COPORATION - Altamonte Springs, FL 1994 to 1995 Created company "Corner Stone" documentation for UNIX systems running Dimension 3000 banking  application. This provided installation, monitoring and system operator procedures for internal and external customers.  • On-site technical manager in Prague Czech republic. Responsible for interfacing customer systems  programmers with company application developers. Personal Computer Consultant CARROLL CONSULTING - Longwood, FL 1992 to 1994 Installed and configured software and hardware for individual users and small businesses. Manager CAD Systems MicroEnergy Inc - Longwood, FL 1991 to 1992 Manager CAD Systems NCR Corp 1990 to 1991 NCR Corp - Lake Mary, FL 1986 to 1991 Senior Programmer Analyst NCR Corp 1986 to 1990 Senior Quality Assurance Engineer 1986 to 1986 1986) Education M.B.A. University of Central Florida - Orlando, FL B.S. in Engineering Technology University of Central Florida - Orlando, FL Additional Information Extensive experience in management of UNIX systems. Demonstrated ability to perform analysis of system  requirements and performance. Consulted with vendors to ensure products align with strategies and goals.  Support organizations in team environment as well as individual contributor capacities.