Senior Systems Engineer / Information Systems Security Officer Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer / Information <span class="hl">Systems</span> Security Officer Senior Systems Engineer / Information Systems Security Officer - SalientCRGT Williamsburg, VA Work Experience Senior Systems Engineer / Information Systems Security Officer SalientCRGT - Fort Lee, VA March 2017 to Present • IA Level II; DOD Contractor, Fort Lee, VA  • Enterprise Data Warehouse / Business Intelligence, Defense Commissary Agency (DeCA) Headquarters  • Installed, configured and maintained the Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW) hardware comprised of systems running multiple distributions of Linux, Red Hat 5, 6 and SUSE, as well as Microsoft Windows Server 2008 R2.  • Configured and maintained host based firewalls and intrusion prevention services for SUSE and Red Hat Enterprise Linux as well MS Windows Server 2008.  • Manage Enterprise Business Objects / Business Intelligence infrastructure.  • Advise EDW stakeholders on key interagency actions that affect operations, including immediate and long-term information security functions.  • Maintain DeCA's Payment Card Industry (PCI) compliance for Enterprise Data Warehouse.  • Implement and coordinate activities designed to ensure, protect, and restore IT systems, services, and capabilities.  • Identify and analyze threats and vulnerabilities to systems and networks, & provide guidance and support on maintaining an appropriate level of protection.  • Perform network health checks on systems and networks to ensure security configurations are current.  • Developed and updates EDW security plans, manages Information Security controls and assesses the security impact of all changes to the EDW environment.  • Conducted and Analyzed vulnerability scans using the Assured Compliance Assessment Solution (ACAS)  • Compiled and entered system documentation using Enterprise Mission Assurance Support Service (eMASS) Functioned as the EDW lead for transitioning from the Defense Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process (DIACAP) to Risk Management Framework (RMF).  • Perform research, analysis, development and coordination of strategy, policy and plans for EDW/BI. ITO Service Delivery Consultant III HP Enterprise Solutions - Norfolk, VA May 2016 to December 2016 Citrix Systems)  • IA Level II; DOD Contractor, Naval Station Norfolk.  • Tier III Citrix Engineer on 400,000 user NGEN (Next Generation Enterprise Network).  • Citrix XenApp Server Engineer on Enterprise XenApp Infrastructure consisting of multiple Citrix Farms, geographically dispersed.  • Backup administration of Enterprise Citrix XenDesktop Environment including administration of back-end & front-end servers, delivering updated, secure Applications and Published Desktop environments for U.S. Navy, and DoD personnel.  • Managed 500 Citrix XenApp Servers, version 7.6, residing on VMware Virtual Infrastructure.  • Lead Support Engineer for Citrix NetScaler Infrastructure, Netscaler version 11. Senior Systems Engineer C4 Planning Solutions - Fort Eustis, VA September 2013 to March 2016 • IA Level II; DOD Contractor, Ft. Eustis, VA.  • Managed back-end & front-end Windows Server Infrastructure supporting the U.S. Army's Blackboard Learn, Enterprise LMS (Learning Management System).  • Team Lead on redesign project of US Army Blackboard Learn environment, each containing custom divisions and areas of interest.  • Managed project migrating multiple terabytes of production SQL data and file server data to new server infrastructure residing on VMware, providing aged Blackboard LMS with clean starts.  • Redesigned and implemented upgrade of existing single SQL Server back-end to SQL Cluster residing on VMware providing HA, as well as increasing database performance and providing a better user experience.  • Managed implementation of AppDynamics COTS performance monitoring & alerting suite including installation of SQL specific DBMon database monitoring add-on. After initial monitoring and performance tuning of SQL, IIS & Tomcat, a marked performance increase noted for Blackboard user experience. Resolved lingering performance issues which were present in existing stale builds.  • Responsible for root cause troubleshooting, systems analysis and remediation relating to performance as well as break-fix for SQL back-end and front-end web services.  • Authored technical documentation library containing complete Operations Manual to provide guidance & step-by-step troubleshooting for all issues encountered during my redesign and rebuilding of the Blackboard Learn infrastructure, to aid the systems support team and helpdesk team in supporting large military and DoD customer base. Systems Administrator Riverside Health System - Newport News, VA December 2008 to September 2013 • Citrix Team Lead, Enterprise Citrix XenApp Environment.  • Assessed Citrix Environment and proposed configuration changes critical to the health and continued functionality of the Citrix Farms.  • Proposed migrating existing data store to new SQL Cluster data store giving critical Health System customer base a robust data solution.  • Managed Citrix XenApp migration from version 5 to 5.5, then version 6.5 on server infrastructure built on Dell and Cisco UCS Blade Servers giving service provider continuity to hospital operations and streamlined deliver of over fifty healthcare applications.  • Worked directly with Citrix Vendor on design of Citrix Netscaler infrastructure; delivered published desktop solution.  • Customized default Citrix Netscalers login pages, and worked with Web Development team to implement Riverside's corporate theme and imaging, providing Physicians and Staff a secure site to login to and access the same applications which they use in their offices.  • Configured Netscalers with a specific portal for Network/Security Team; SSL VPN, RDP, PUTTY, OWA, as well as access to the intranet.  • Managed multiple Microsoft SQL 08 and 05 servers and Clusters which provided the back-end functionality for the EMR apps which were hosted in the Citrix Farm, including the critical Cancer Center Patient Treatment apps, as well as many other healthcare, and patient treatment applications. Senior Network Administrator Operation Smile - Norfolk, VA August 2007 to December 2008 • Tier III Information Systems support for the MS Active Directory Infrastructure, MS Windows Servers, MS SQL Servers and SQL Clusters providing back-end functionality, with MS Exchange handling messaging needs.  • Mentor to junior I.T. staff.  • Provided superior Customer Service to all OPSmile's users, both local users as well as the hundreds that were geographically dispersed throughout 30 countries around the globe.  • Performed production Exchange Migration with zero downtime or interruption of service.  • Designed and documented a DR solution which would replicate the most critical applications to a secure facility providing 24x7 365 uptime, as continuity of operations in the event of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event which could render the HQ Datacenter inoperable. Senior Network Administrator AVID Medical, Inc - Toano, VA September 2005 to July 2007 • Managed Windows Server Infrastructure, Active Directory, and Microsoft Exchange for messaging.  • Utilized 3rd party tools & utilities which allowed for more of a proactive approach to monitoring and preventative maintenance of critical Servers and Applications.  • Created security vulnerability mitigation process by research, testing, and making recommendations for the procurement, installation and configuration of Patch Management System.  • Managed all Windows, Exchange, & SQL backups to Network Attached Storage, then off to tapes, which were moved off-site daily to ensure recoverability in case the Data Center were to suffer catastrophic failure or natural disaster.  • Responsible for maintenance and performance of every server on the network, including mostly HP ProLiant rack servers, Cisco Catalyst Series switches, F5 VPN appliances, Exabyte Tape Libraries and EMC SAN Storage, and NAS Devices. I.T. Consultant OPTIMIZE I.T - Williamsburg, VA March 2004 to September 2005 • Solutions provider for small and medium sized businesses to include dental and physicians practices, law offices and many others.  • During tenure at Optimize I.T. partially or fully converted many clients with either out of warranty gear or systems which were not designed to handle the workload being exerted.  • Designed and proposed load balanced Citrix Farms, including replacing outdated poor performing pc's, with inexpensive new thin clients which served up customized published desktops including all applicable software necessary to performing job duties. Network Administrator York County School Division - Yorktown, VA January 2000 to March 2004 • Managed day to day Windows Server administration, and connectivity between 19 sites, including Active Directory, and Exchange for messaging.  • Supported YCSD's cafeterias, including POS systems.  • The cafeterias all ran on Citrix Metaframe v 1.8 which ran the cash registers as well as I/O devices where the students would input their student ID # each day, and were connected to dot matrix printers so the cafeteria managers could print out their inventory, expenditures, etc.  • Built Exchange Servers and set them up in the existing YCSD Exchange Organization, as well as Application Servers, File Servers, Tape Backup Systems, as well as physically wiring each patch panel from the ports directly to new switches.  • Implemented technology 'infusions' at six YCSD schools, including taking delivery of HP racks, HP rack servers, and related gear; and building server infrastructure from components to fully functioning Windows Servers which provided backbone to support classroom integrated PC's for staff and student use. 2E251- Electronic Computer and Switching Systems Journeyman Active Duty - United States Air Force - Langley AFB, VA January 1996 to January 2000 Network Systems Administrator HQ ACC/SC Skills Windows Server (10+ years), Citrix (10+ years), System Administration (10+ years), Information Security (10+ years), Linux (2 years) Certifications/Licenses MCSE 2001 to Present Security+ 2017 to Present CCA 2012 to Present