Sr. Cyber Security Analyst Sr. Cyber Security Analyst Sr. Systems Specialist Setauket, NY I have 20+ years of experience supporting information technology infrastructures. I have also managed high profile projects, worked with vendors, compliance and audit groups. During the last 10 years, I have lead and managed 1st and 2nd level support personnel. My strongest attribute is working well with others. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Cyber Security Analyst Cognizant - Melville, NY 2015 to 2018 • Windows AD administrator.  • Level 3 and team lead for all off shore level 2 support. Responsibilities included working with human resources to screen and assess skill level and make recommendations for new hires for level 2 support team.  • Project management for new implementations such as Control Compliance Security (CCS) infrastructure, and Service Now.   • Migrated Symantec’s Enterprise Security Manager (ESM) to the new Control Compliance Security (CCS) for North America Windows servers.   • Level 3 support for Data security group. Responsibilities included supporting Symantec’s Control Compliance Suite (CCS) Infrastructure for 22,000 Microsoft servers for Citi banks North America and Latin America regions. Sr. Systems Administrator, VP Citigroup - Melville, NY 2002 to 2015 • Windows AD server and network administrator for North America region.  • Supported Microsoft’s system Center Operations Manager (SCOM) – Supported daily operations.  • Migrated 25 thousand servers over from Enterprise Security Manager (ESM) over to the new Control Compliance Suite (CCS) Infrastructure.  • Enterprise Security Manager (ESM) administrator – Responsibilities included; creating ESM policies and distributing them to ESM managers. Rolling out ESM managers (Windows servers) and agent upgrades. Supported Daily operations.  • Installed and administered Microsoft file servers in to a VMWare environment.  • Installed and maintained the following server operating systems; Microsoft Windows Server 2012, 2008, 2003 (MCSE), NT3.5 – 4.0. Novell Server 4.11 (CNE), 4.0, 3,12, SUSE Linux.  • Created, organized, and maintained project plans and finances for high visibility system migrations.  • Documented Procedures, and coordinated support efforts between vendors and Citi businesses for application support.  • Responsible for maintaining IT security risk and compliance processes and documentation. Responsibilities also included preparing documentation and evidence to submit to audit organizations (i.e. KPMG and internal auditors). Worked closely with CISOs, BISOs, and GISOs during audits and new implementation of technology.  • Developed, implemented, lead, and maintained project plans to migrate multiple global consumer groups’ resources and user accounts from separate Windows Domain infrastructures into Citigroup’s global AD infrastructure.  • Migrated lockbox and mortgage business’s application servers and data from Novell Netware 5.1 to Microsoft Windows 2003 servers.  • Responsible for the procurement of hardware and software.  • Migrated European American Bank (EAB) resources into Citigroup infrastructure. Sr. Systems Specialist ABN-AMRO North America, Inc. (European American Bank - Uniondale, NY 2000 to 2002 • Project Leader on high profile projects for the Mortgage and Retail Credit businesses.  • Developed, implemented, lead and maintained project plans. Documentation of respective projects, and coordinated involvement and cooperation between ABN AMRO and EAB (client).  • Configured Novell Netware 4.11 servers and installed into the ABN AMRO tree (i.e. EAB's Mortgage, Retail Credit, and Lockbox groups).  • Configured Microsoft NT 4.0 servers and installed into the ABN AMRO and EAB domains, including Microsoft SQL server and Microsoft Terminal server with Citrix.  • Developed application packages for end-users using Novell's Snapshot and delivered with ZEN Works.  • Coordinated and implemented the networking of Xerox multifunctional copiers.    Experience cont'd Sr. Systems Engineer, Manager Nextstage Healthcare Inc - Melville, NY 1997 to 2000 • Managed LAN administrators and help desk support for 250+ users.  • Installed and maintained all servers on site consisting of Novell Netware 3.12, IntranetWare 4.11 and Microsoft Windows NT 4.0 BackOffice Server Suite.  • Installed and configured Ultrasound PACS and DICOM systems for storing and transmitting medical images.  • Implemented standard policies for all workstation builds and applications.  • Developed training manuals and reference guides for end users.  • Diagrammed and inventoried all network components using Visio Technical and Clicknet.  • Installed and maintained company e-mail system.  • Responsible for coordinating and implementing the company's infrastructure and systems at new site.  • Upgraded 120 users from Novell Netware 3.12 to 4.11.  • Migrated 250+ users from Novell Netware 4.11 to Microsoft NT 4.0.  • Setup gateways to IBM AS400s with Novell Netware SAA and Microsoft Windows NT SNA.  • Responsible for managing and supporting backups on all servers and the phone switch.  • Installed, configured and supported Shiva LanRovers, and CNG's Instant Internet for remote access users.  • Responsible for the procurement of hardware and software.  • Installed Cisco 1600 routers, 3Com 10/100 Mb switches/hubs, Compaq servers, Digi boards and Paradyne DSU/CSU's, and a Hewlett Packard bridge RB.  • Maintained Lucent Definity Map 3 phone switch, Intuity Audix voice power, and Sun Spark IV. Education Certificate Lucent Training Center - Valhalla, NY 1997 to 1998 Certificate Computer Career Center - Hempstead, NY 1996 to 1997 Certificate SUNY Farmingdale College - Farmingdale, NY 1995 to 1996 Certificate SUNY Morrisville College - Morrisville, NY 1990 to 1991 Skills System Analyst, Symantec ESM (6 years), Symantec CCS (3 years), Windows Server (10+ years), Novell SUSE (1 year), Alarm Point (3 years), Networking (10+ years), Telecommunications (6 years), Dashboard, Network Administration (10+ years), Network Management (10+ years), Systems Integration (10+ years), Project Management (8 years), System Administration (10+ years), IT Compliance (10+ years), System Administrator, Vmware, Linux, Active Directory, System Admin, Information Security, Network Security, Cyber Security Additional Information Novell CNE, Microsoft MCSE (NT 4.0), Novel SUSE administrator. Project Management Office- PMO (Training From Citigroup)