Linux Systems Engineer Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Linux Systems Engineer Woodland Park, CO I have enjoyed many years contributing my broad knowledge, experience, expertise and work enthusiasm to a variety of technology areas focusing on IP Networking, Unix/Windows Network and Systems Administration, Software Development and Storage Systems Test & Integration. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Linux Systems Engineer El Paso County (Enterprise Services) - Colorado Springs, CO June 2017 to Present Responsible for maintaining all Linux physical and virtual infrastructure servers. Provide support for Windows 2008/2012 Active Directory services.    • Develop and implement processes for integrating RHEL 6, RHEL 7 and Oracle Linux into Windows Active Directory environment.  • Author scripts to audit and remediate Linux systems to adhere to CIS recommended security benchmarks.  • Manage existing VMWare/VCenter 6.0/6.5 environment.  • Set up secure Public DNS master/slave servers for multiple domains on RHEL 7 servers.  • Develop Ansible playbooks for deploying “standard” Linux instances. Technology & Systems Support Engineer Storage Networking Industry Association November 2003 to December 2016 Responsible for managing system, network, power and HVAC infrastructures for an 8,000 sq. ft. lab facility. Provide network and systems support for a large SAN development environment including FC/iSCSI/NAS arrays, servers and switches.    ? Re-design and implement lab/site network configuration to address changes in topology/security requirements.  ? Technical member of KMIP conformance testing team, responsible for creating and maintaining test environment and performing KMIP product testing and results analysis.  ? Design, implement and deploy temporary network infrastructures for use at technology-focused trade shows to include Cisco routers/firewalls and Meraki Wireless Access Points.  ? Configure, manage and maintain all network and computer systems in a development and production environment including Windows Active Directory and Linux environments.  ? Setup and manage VMWare ESXi, Hyper-V and Redhat KVM hypervisor servers.  ? Implement open source network and system monitoring solutions. (Cacti, Nagios, Netdisco)  ? Author PERL and UNIX shell scripts to perform miscellaneous network/ systems administration tasks. Distributed Systems Capacity Planner IBM - Boulder, CO December 2002 to November 2003 Responsible for collecting, analyzing and reporting on performance and capacity data for external customers' large distributed systems enterprise networks. Provide data analysis and recommendations for improved performance.    ? Analyze performance and capacity data for 600+ Unix/Windows systems collected.  ? Develop report formats to accurately and easily convey the current status and forecasting of large enterprise system infrastructures.  ? Present reports with analysis and recommendations to various external customers across the country.  ? Interface with various internal and external organizations to resolve measurement issues and develop closed-loop processes including Measurements/Collections, Systems Administration and Customer Relations. IT Manager (hands-on) Radiant Data - Niwot, CO May 2000 to May 2002 Setup and manage a TCP/IP based heterogeneous network infrastructure utilizing Linksys and Intel hubs/switches, and Cisco routers.  ? Install, configure and maintain Intel based servers running Redhat Linux providing services to include Email, Internet gateway, DNS, DHCP, NIS, WINS, FTP, SSH, NFS, Apache Web Servers, Samba file/print service, CVS, Gnats (problem tracking) and VPN.  ? Install, configure and maintain all desktop systems running Redhat Linux, Sun Solaris, and Windows 98/NT/2000.  ? Develop shell scripts to facilitate automated server back up.  ? Implement company disaster recovery processes.  ? Manage and coordinate all outsourced support for phone system and hardware printer support.  ? Manage and train system administrators in support of network infrastructure and compute systems.    Management Software Manager (hands-on)    ? Develop requirements, architecture and design documents for a web based client/server modeled storage and file system management application.  ? Develop web based user interface and backend programs utilizing Perl, CGI, CSS, HTML, Javascript, TCP socket communication, RPM.  ? Direct the efforts of a Network Software Engineer in developing back end network-messaging software.  ? Set and maintain software development schedules.    Adaptec - Longmont, CO  • Software Engineer    • Senior UNIX Systems Administrator    StorageTek - Longmont, CO  • Systems Test Engineer    • Senior UNIX Systems Administrator/Lead    Analysts International - Denver, CO  • Systems Test Engineer    • Unix Systems Administrator (US West) Senior Unix Systems Administrator Adaptec - Longmont, CO 1996 to 2000 Software Engineer  - Participate in the design and implementation of a web-based work flow/project management system, which defines and automates the PCB design process and provides project tracking and metrics collection/reporting.  - Design, implement and integrate a web-based GUI front-end to an existing problem tracking system (Gnats) for use by various engineering and support groups to provide bug/task management and metrics.    Senior Unix Systems Administrator    - Configure, install, maintain and manage all Unix file/application servers and desktops including Sun Solaris (2.4), SunOS, HP-UX and NetApps file servers.  - Develop and implement daily backup/recovery processes. Maintain backup system hardware/software using HP server, Storagetek DLT library and Veritas NetBackup.  - Coordinate all vendor support of in-house hardware.  - Develop and implement scripts to synchronize NIS databases with all corporate facilities.  - Maintain HP based disaster recovery systems and act as first point of contact for the company’s Longmont facility.  - Assist other administrators in the IT department with installation, configuration and maintenance of Windows based computers (Win 95/98/NT). Systems Test Engineer StorageTek - Longmont, CO December 1993 to December 1996 - Develop and implement regression and system test suites to test, exercise and validate the performance and functionality of high capacity, high speed SCSI tape subsystems and libraries on platforms supporting SunOS, IRIX, HP-UX and AIX operating systems using Perl, Unix shell, TCL/TK, Expect, sed/awk.    Senior Unix Systems Administrator/Lead    - Oversee and provide direction to the IT team in all aspects of Unix systems/network administration for Sun (SunOS) systems.  - Implement Sun platform automated configuration system.  - Participate with a core team of developers to form standards for developing division wide web based applications and content.  - Develop a GUI (TCL/TK) based problem tracking system for use by all engineering teams. Aid in integrating the system with a source control system (PVCS). Systems Test Engineer Analysts International Corporation (AIC) - Denver, CO May 1992 to December 1993 Systems Test Engineer  - Develop and implement software suites to test and exercise high speed, SCSI based tape and library subsystems providing a real time tape based virtual file system archive product.    Unix Systems Administrator (US West)    - Member of the IS team installing, configuring and maintaining Unix servers and desktops for engineering groups spread across 5 facilities.  - Develop and maintain script utilities to aid in performing daily admin functions.    Software Test Engineer (US West)    - Work with a team of software engineers to develop tools to measure performance and functionality of various high-end compute servers (Sun, HP, Pyramid, Sequent, SGI).  - Perform all necessary system and network administration tasks to configure and maintain test systems.  - Develop scripts to gather and report all performance metrics providing a means for server selection. Education AS in Electronic Engineering Community College of the Air Force - Biloxi, MS September 1975 to June 1976 Skills Linux, Red Hat, Redhat, Linux Administrator, Rhel, System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin Military Service Branch: Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: E-4 July 1975 to November 1980 Satellite Communications Maintenance/Operations Technician Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Network+ ce February 2017 to February 2020