Sr. IT Systems Technician Sr. IT <span class="hl">Systems</span> Technician Sr. IT Systems Technician Chicago, IL Work Experience Sr. IT Systems Technician CLUNE CONSTRUCTION COMPANY, L.P November 2013 to July 2019 Supervisory Position • Provide support in a ticket-based support in a technology dependent environment • Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 10 Support • Mobile Device Management • Invoice Coding • Provide remote and on-site end user support as needed to 200 plus users in a professional office environment • Inventory Tracking • Software Installation • Hardware Setup/Installation. • New user account setup in Active Directory and mailbox setup in Office365 in a hybrid environment • New user workstation setup and deployment using Microsoft Deployment Toolkit & SCCM 2012• General troubleshooting • Virus & malware and diagnosis and removal. • Create & Maintain Procedure Documentation • Mitel VOIP Phone system management • Windows Server 2008 & 2012 Support • On-call as needed Systems Administrator/NOC Systems Technician October 2009 to November 2013 MICROS-RETAIL/ORACLE  I. Systems Administrator:  Provide support in a ticket-based support environment • Windows and Mac OS X Support • Mobile Device User Support • Provide remote, in person telephone support to end users as needed. • Supported 220 plus, users in a strict technology dependent office environment • Inventory Tracking • Software Installation • Hardware Setup/Installation. New user account setup in Active Directory and mailbox setup in Microsoft Exchange versions 2007 & 2010 • New user workstation setup and deployment • Server setup; racking; and configuration • Image creation and rollout using Norton Ghost and Microsoft Deployment Toolkit • General troubleshooting • Virus & malware and diagnosis and removal. • Avaya VOIP Phone system management • On-call as needed• Travel and Remote Office Support • Reporting for PCI Compliance • Symantec Backup Exec Administrator • Administrator for Serena Business Manager Ticketing System NOC Systems Technician October 2009 to May 2010 Provided limited to support to the Network Operations Center • customer-service based • Trouble Ticket Creation and Escalation • Monitor processes and jobs in various web-based platforms (IIS, TOMCAT, Websphere, apache) • Monitor and access 500+ servers via HP Opsware Client • Direct Customer Relations via Telephone or e-mail as needed. • Maintain logs for Shift Transition • daily inspection of Local Data Center • Assist with tape library maintenance and back up. • Provide support to internal and client-side Engineers and Project Managers Production Systems Support Specialist SUN-TIMES NEWS GROUP August 2007 to April 2009 Provide system support for major publications system. • Created work orders, and/or completed work orders as needed • Worked with an out-sourced Help Desk to coordinate or contact essential personnel • Monitored processes and work flows on application servers • Assisted in the successful integration and rollout of new and upgraded systems • Created and submitted nightly logs for the shift, reporting any problems if needed. • Trouble-shooting problems on both Apple/Macintosh (9.2 through Mac OS X: Tiger & Leopard), and Windows Platforms (Windows NT4 through Windows Vista). • Provide remote support and assistance whenever needed via TCP/IP connection • Supported 250-300 users in strict deadline-based environment Data Center Operator SUN-TIMES NEWS GROUP August 2005 to August 2007 Prepare and print various reports and invoices for advertising, classified, and circulation departments • Generate, prepare, and print invoices for mailing • VAX System Operator • Assisted in administration and setup of CommVault(TM) and Veritas Backup-Exec back-up system and various other manual back-up systems • Assisted in implementation of IT related Sarbanes-Oxley compliance policies and procedures • Maintained HP(TM) printers and schedule service calls as needed throughout office building • Rendered new invoice forms through RemotePrint(TM) Invoice System • Troubleshoot and provide limited desktop support as needed • Assisted Systems Analysts and provide assistance to help desk as needed Education BACHELOR'S OF SCIENCE in COMPUTER INFORMATION SYSTEMS Kaplan's School of Information Technology - Davenport, IA May 2014