Business Systems Analyst/ Administrator Business <span class="hl">Systems</span> Analyst/<span class="hl">Administrator</span> Fort Myers, FL To obtain a position where I can utilize my business and computer knowledge together with my leadership and teambuilding experience to promote individual and corporate goals. Work Experience Business Systems Analyst/ Administrator Equitrans Midstream (formerly EQT) - Canonsburg, PA April 2019 to Present Handle issues for various cloud platforms including Ariba, Quorum, and Intelex. Communicate with the business as well as technical teams to resolve system issues or questions. Improving business systems through working directly with the people that use them. Business Process Consultant SAP Ariba - Pittsburgh, PA June 2018 to March 2019 Deploy SAP Ariba solutions with customer. Go through design, build and deployment phases with customer. Work with customer to customize solution to fit their business needs. Technical Support Engineer SAP Ariba - Pittsburgh, PA March 2017 to June 2018 Deliver exceptional customer experience by using deep product knowledge and problem solving skills to troubleshoot and resolve customer issues; focusing on customer service, including frequent and high quality communication. Liaison between customers and Product Engineering to identify, prioritize, and resolve reported system defects. Manage a workload of 30-50 Service Requests at any time. Sales Representative LA Fitness - Pittsburgh, PA December 2016 to February 2017 Generate leads, make membership sales, help members, top 5 salesmen in region in first full pay period. Event Marketing and Sales Mid-Atlantic Waterproofing - Monroeville, PA June 2016 to February 2017 Generate leads through in person marketing at events. Explain in detail how the system works and how the company will carry out the service. Education Master's in Business Administration California University of Pennsylvania - California, PA 2015 to 2016 Bachelor's in Computing and Information Studies Washington & Jefferson College - Washington, PA 2012 to 2015 Skills Tech Support, Business Process, Consulting, Agile, MySQL, Microsoft office, Leadership, Lead meetings, Communications, Transformation, Excel, testing, SQL, access, Business Intelligence, SAP Additional Information Computer Skills:  • Proficient with Microsoft Office programs Excel and Access, experience with Word and PowerPoint.  • Designing and Editing with Photoshop, iMovie and GoPro Studio  • Using SQL and Rapid Miner  • Programming with C++ and Java  • Computer Security knowledge  • Using Axure prototyping software  • Working with Ariba Procure to Pay software.    Collegiate Involvement:  • Men's Varsity Basketball Team: 2011-2016, Team Captain 2013-2015, 2013 Capital One Academic All-District Basketball Team  • Dedication and ability to excel at collegiate level athletics through years of perseverance, time commitment and leadership.  • Member of Chi Alpha Sigma, Chi Iota chapter for the National College Athlete Honor Society  • Member of the "Be A President" campaign at Washington & Jefferson College  • Considerable amounts of volunteer work