ACAS Subject Matter Expert/ Systems Engineer V ACAS Subject Matter Expert/<span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer V Subject Matter Expert/ Systems Engineer V - ACAS Sierra Vista, AZ Extremely knowledgeable in Security, Network, and Information Assurance with a broad depth of understanding software applications, networking and information systems to include hardware technologies and interoperability. Seeking a challenging and responsible position where education and experience will be of mutual value, allowing for continual growth. IAT III /IAM III eligible. Current Active Interim U.S. government Top Secret clearance. Work Experience ACAS Subject Matter Expert/ Systems Engineer V NCI Information Systems, Inc. - Sierra Vista, AZ November 2018 to Present • Direct and participate in all phases of system development with emphasis on planning, analysis, evaluation, integration, testing and acceptance phases (IV&V and DT&E).  • Research and analyze DoD and Department of the Army (DA) policies to mitigate implementation problems.  • Perform high-level systems analysis, evaluation, design, integration, documentation, and implementation of complex capabilities that require a thorough knowledge of administrative and technical skills.  • Develop draft sustainment support documentation for updating and utilization of current and future LandWarNet architectures, change control, configuration management, and operations procedures.  • Design and prepare technical reports and related documentation, and design charts and graphs to record results.  • Provide Tier III sustainment support during migration and implementation of tech refresh life cycle.  • Provide operational engineering support for the Configuration Management (CM) process in support of routine patching, synchronization with AGM and day-to-day operational issues.  • Support NDNIA/ACAS planning, architecture, technical integration, project management, engineering, testing, training, coordination, implementation, and technical support in the Army Enterprise.  • Support large-scale implementations NDNIA/ACAS products.  • Apply higher-level business or technical principles and methods to very difficult technical problems to arrive at automated engineering solutions. Senior Systems Engineer/ Systems Engineer IV NCI Information Systems, Inc. - Sierra Vista, AZ March 2018 to November 2018 • Direct and participate in all phases of system development with emphasis on planning, analysis, evaluation, integration, testing and acceptance phases (IV&V and DT&E).  • Research and analyze DoD and Department of the Army (DA) policies to mitigate implementation problems.  • Perform high-level systems analysis, evaluation, design, integration, documentation, and implementation of complex capabilities that require a thorough knowledge of administrative and technical skills.  • Develop draft sustainment support documentation for updating and utilization of current and future LandWarNet architectures, change control, configuration management, and operations procedures.  • Design and prepare technical reports and related documentation, and design charts and graphs to record results.  • Provide Tier III sustainment support during migration and implementation of tech refresh life cycle.  • Provide operational engineering support for the Configuration Management (CM) process in support of routine patching, synchronization with AGM and day-to-day operational issues.  • Support NDNIA/ACAS planning, architecture, technical integration, project management, engineering, testing, training, coordination, implementation, and technical support in the Army Enterprise.  • Support large-scale implementations NDNIA/ACAS products.  • Apply higher-level business or technical principles and methods to very difficult technical problems to arrive at automated engineering solutions. Systems Administrator/Security Analyst Peraton (Formally Harris IT services) - Lompoc, CA January 2015 to March 2018 • Designed, tested, and implemented the first cyber defense system of the Air Force Satellite Control Network (AFSCN).  • Configured and updated Snort files. Searched indexed Bro Intrusion Detection System (IDS) on Splunk server and extracted raw packet capture (pcap) files for network traffic data analyzation.  • Configured, administered, operated, maintained telecommunications routers, switches and devices, using ATM and IP technology and a complex configuration of multiple vendor products and systems.  • Operated and maintained Optical Switch Replacement (OSR) Systems, WANIUs, encryption devices and other systems associated with AFSCN Operational Control Node (OCN) at Vandenberg AFB, CA  • Optimized system operation and resource usage, performed system capacity analysis, and planning.  • Utilized VMware V-Cloud Director, Wireshark, NetWitness and locally created programs to perform network traffic analysis, vulnerability scans and review of installed software services prior to implementation on the Air Force Evaluated/Approved Product Listing - provided guidance to clients on mitigation strategies  • Provided Tier 2 and 3 support for SharePoint environment Managed SharePoint workflow process to facilitate application requests entering testing, validation, and implementation within the test environment Resolved issues with SharePoint environment  • Perform troubleshooting of telecommunications networks; coordinating outage resolutions with multiple distant end sites. Established and maintained procedures involving the tasks to maintain telecommunications networking systems  • Handled COMSEC to update communication link encryption  • Developed and documented system administration procedures. Trained other team members  • Accepted, developed and implemented complex configuration changes associated with the (OSR) network and other related systems.  • Performed systems administration, database administration, master document upkeep, account management, software support and maintenance, outage documentation review, and repair of computer systems  • Monitored for and ensured Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIG) compliance, security, and performance.  • Designed, maintained and updated Microsoft Access databases used for recording training, outage tracking, and create reports to provide to higher leadership.  • Installed, configured, updated and maintained advanced servers, Internet Information Services (IIS) and Windows based desktops.  • Created step-by-step instructions for security assessment processes - seamless transition for new team members  • Performed complicated repairs of circuits to meet US Military installation specifications through systematic troubleshooting, complex equipment conditioning, re-engineering, modifying, and re-testing.  • Provided operational control and technical supervision over designated US military Defense Communications Systems, satellite, and other communications facilities.  • Responsible for performing corrective and preventative maintenance on Air Force Satellite Control Network (AFSCN) equipment, Mission Communications equipment, Secure Communications equipment and Mission Computer equipment. Systems Administrator/Security Analyst Peraton (Formally Harris IT services) June 2009 to March 2018 • Designed, tested, and implemented the first cyber defense system of the Air Force Satellite Control Network (AFSCN).  • Configured and updated Snort files. Searched indexed Bro Intrusion Detection System (IDS) on Splunk server and extracted raw packet capture (pcap) files for network traffic data analyzation.  • Configured, administered, operated, maintained telecommunications routers, switches and devices, using ATM and IP technology and a complex configuration of multiple vendor products and systems.  • Operated and maintained Optical Switch Replacement (OSR) Systems, WANIUs, encryption devices and other systems associated with AFSCN Operational Control Node (OCN) at Vandenberg AFB, CA  • Optimized system operation and resource usage, performed system capacity analysis, and planning.  • Utilized VMware V-Cloud Director, Wireshark, NetWitness and locally created programs to perform network traffic analysis, vulnerability scans and review of installed software services prior to implementation on the Air Force Evaluated/Approved Product Listing - provided guidance to clients on mitigation strategies  • Provided Tier 2 and 3 support for SharePoint environment Managed SharePoint workflow process to facilitate application requests entering testing, validation, and implementation within the test environment Resolved issues with SharePoint environment  • Perform troubleshooting of telecommunications networks; coordinating outage resolutions with multiple distant end sites. Established and maintained procedures involving the tasks to maintain telecommunications networking systems  • Handled COMSEC to update communication link encryption  • Developed and documented system administration procedures. Trained other team members  • Accepted, developed and implemented complex configuration changes associated with the (OSR) network and other related systems.  • Performed systems administration, database administration, master document upkeep, account management, software support and maintenance, outage documentation review, and repair of computer systems  • Monitored for and ensured Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIG) compliance, security, and performance.  • Designed, maintained and updated Microsoft Access databases used for recording training, outage tracking, and create reports to provide to higher leadership.  • Installed, configured, updated and maintained advanced servers, Internet Information Services (IIS) and Windows based desktops.  • Created step-by-step instructions for security assessment processes - seamless transition for new team members  • Performed complicated repairs of circuits to meet US Military installation specifications through systematic troubleshooting, complex equipment conditioning, re-engineering, modifying, and re-testing.  • Provided operational control and technical supervision over designated US military Defense Communications Systems, satellite, and other communications facilities.  • Responsible for performing corrective and preventative maintenance on Air Force Satellite Control Network (AFSCN) equipment, Mission Communications equipment, Secure Communications equipment and Mission Computer equipment. Patch and Test Facility Subject Matter Expert Peraton (Formally Harris IT services) - Lompoc, CA July 2014 to January 2015 • Designed, tested, and implemented the first cyber defense system of the Air Force Satellite Control Network (AFSCN).  • Configured and updated Snort files. Searched indexed Bro Intrusion Detection System (IDS) on Splunk server and extracted raw packet capture (pcap) files for network traffic data analyzation.  • Configured, administered, operated, maintained telecommunications routers, switches and devices, using ATM and IP technology and a complex configuration of multiple vendor products and systems.  • Operated and maintained Optical Switch Replacement (OSR) Systems, WANIUs, encryption devices and other systems associated with AFSCN Operational Control Node (OCN) at Vandenberg AFB, CA  • Optimized system operation and resource usage, performed system capacity analysis, and planning.  • Utilized VMware V-Cloud Director, Wireshark, NetWitness and locally created programs to perform network traffic analysis, vulnerability scans and review of installed software services prior to implementation on the Air Force Evaluated/Approved Product Listing - provided guidance to clients on mitigation strategies  • Provided Tier 2 and 3 support for SharePoint environment Managed SharePoint workflow process to facilitate application requests entering testing, validation, and implementation within the test environment Resolved issues with SharePoint environment  • Perform troubleshooting of telecommunications networks; coordinating outage resolutions with multiple distant end sites. Established and maintained procedures involving the tasks to maintain telecommunications networking systems  • Handled COMSEC to update communication link encryption  • Developed and documented system administration procedures. Trained other team members  • Accepted, developed and implemented complex configuration changes associated with the (OSR) network and other related systems.  • Performed systems administration, database administration, master document upkeep, account management, software support and maintenance, outage documentation review, and repair of computer systems  • Monitored for and ensured Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIG) compliance, security, and performance.  • Designed, maintained and updated Microsoft Access databases used for recording training, outage tracking, and create reports to provide to higher leadership.  • Installed, configured, updated and maintained advanced servers, Internet Information Services (IIS) and Windows based desktops.  • Created step-by-step instructions for security assessment processes - seamless transition for new team members  • Performed complicated repairs of circuits to meet US Military installation specifications through systematic troubleshooting, complex equipment conditioning, re-engineering, modifying, and re-testing.  • Provided operational control and technical supervision over designated US military Defense Communications Systems, satellite, and other communications facilities.  • Responsible for performing corrective and preventative maintenance on Air Force Satellite Control Network (AFSCN) equipment, Mission Communications equipment, Secure Communications equipment and Mission Computer equipment. Windows System Administrator Peraton (Formally Harris IT services) - O'Fallon, IL September 2013 to June 2014 • Designed, tested, and implemented the first cyber defense system of the Air Force Satellite Control Network (AFSCN).  • Configured and updated Snort files. Searched indexed Bro Intrusion Detection System (IDS) on Splunk server and extracted raw packet capture (pcap) files for network traffic data analyzation.  • Configured, administered, operated, maintained telecommunications routers, switches and devices, using ATM and IP technology and a complex configuration of multiple vendor products and systems.  • Operated and maintained Optical Switch Replacement (OSR) Systems, WANIUs, encryption devices and other systems associated with AFSCN Operational Control Node (OCN) at Vandenberg AFB, CA  • Optimized system operation and resource usage, performed system capacity analysis, and planning.  • Utilized VMware V-Cloud Director, Wireshark, NetWitness and locally created programs to perform network traffic analysis, vulnerability scans and review of installed software services prior to implementation on the Air Force Evaluated/Approved Product Listing - provided guidance to clients on mitigation strategies  • Provided Tier 2 and 3 support for SharePoint environment Managed SharePoint workflow process to facilitate application requests entering testing, validation, and implementation within the test environment Resolved issues with SharePoint environment  • Perform troubleshooting of telecommunications networks; coordinating outage resolutions with multiple distant end sites. Established and maintained procedures involving the tasks to maintain telecommunications networking systems  • Handled COMSEC to update communication link encryption  • Developed and documented system administration procedures. Trained other team members  • Accepted, developed and implemented complex configuration changes associated with the (OSR) network and other related systems.  • Performed systems administration, database administration, master document upkeep, account management, software support and maintenance, outage documentation review, and repair of computer systems  • Monitored for and ensured Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIG) compliance, security, and performance.  • Designed, maintained and updated Microsoft Access databases used for recording training, outage tracking, and create reports to provide to higher leadership.  • Installed, configured, updated and maintained advanced servers, Internet Information Services (IIS) and Windows based desktops.  • Created step-by-step instructions for security assessment processes - seamless transition for new team members  • Performed complicated repairs of circuits to meet US Military installation specifications through systematic troubleshooting, complex equipment conditioning, re-engineering, modifying, and re-testing.  • Provided operational control and technical supervision over designated US military Defense Communications Systems, satellite, and other communications facilities.  • Responsible for performing corrective and preventative maintenance on Air Force Satellite Control Network (AFSCN) equipment, Mission Communications equipment, Secure Communications equipment and Mission Computer equipment. Senior Information Systems Engineer Peraton (Formally Harris IT services) - O'Fallon, IL November 2012 to September 2013 • Designed, tested, and implemented the first cyber defense system of the Air Force Satellite Control Network (AFSCN).  • Configured and updated Snort files. Searched indexed Bro Intrusion Detection System (IDS) on Splunk server and extracted raw packet capture (pcap) files for network traffic data analyzation.  • Configured, administered, operated, maintained telecommunications routers, switches and devices, using ATM and IP technology and a complex configuration of multiple vendor products and systems.  • Operated and maintained Optical Switch Replacement (OSR) Systems, WANIUs, encryption devices and other systems associated with AFSCN Operational Control Node (OCN) at Vandenberg AFB, CA  • Optimized system operation and resource usage, performed system capacity analysis, and planning.  • Utilized VMware V-Cloud Director, Wireshark, NetWitness and locally created programs to perform network traffic analysis, vulnerability scans and review of installed software services prior to implementation on the Air Force Evaluated/Approved Product Listing - provided guidance to clients on mitigation strategies  • Provided Tier 2 and 3 support for SharePoint environment Managed SharePoint workflow process to facilitate application requests entering testing, validation, and implementation within the test environment Resolved issues with SharePoint environment  • Perform troubleshooting of telecommunications networks; coordinating outage resolutions with multiple distant end sites. Established and maintained procedures involving the tasks to maintain telecommunications networking systems  • Handled COMSEC to update communication link encryption  • Developed and documented system administration procedures. Trained other team members  • Accepted, developed and implemented complex configuration changes associated with the (OSR) network and other related systems.  • Performed systems administration, database administration, master document upkeep, account management, software support and maintenance, outage documentation review, and repair of computer systems  • Monitored for and ensured Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIG) compliance, security, and performance.  • Designed, maintained and updated Microsoft Access databases used for recording training, outage tracking, and create reports to provide to higher leadership.  • Installed, configured, updated and maintained advanced servers, Internet Information Services (IIS) and Windows based desktops.  • Created step-by-step instructions for security assessment processes - seamless transition for new team members  • Performed complicated repairs of circuits to meet US Military installation specifications through systematic troubleshooting, complex equipment conditioning, re-engineering, modifying, and re-testing.  • Provided operational control and technical supervision over designated US military Defense Communications Systems, satellite, and other communications facilities.  • Responsible for performing corrective and preventative maintenance on Air Force Satellite Control Network (AFSCN) equipment, Mission Communications equipment, Secure Communications equipment and Mission Computer equipment. TCC Lead Technician Peraton (Formally Harris IT services) - Lompoc, CA March 2010 to November 2012 • Designed, tested, and implemented the first cyber defense system of the Air Force Satellite Control Network (AFSCN).  • Configured and updated Snort files. Searched indexed Bro Intrusion Detection System (IDS) on Splunk server and extracted raw packet capture (pcap) files for network traffic data analyzation.  • Configured, administered, operated, maintained telecommunications routers, switches and devices, using ATM and IP technology and a complex configuration of multiple vendor products and systems.  • Operated and maintained Optical Switch Replacement (OSR) Systems, WANIUs, encryption devices and other systems associated with AFSCN Operational Control Node (OCN) at Vandenberg AFB, CA  • Optimized system operation and resource usage, performed system capacity analysis, and planning.  • Utilized VMware V-Cloud Director, Wireshark, NetWitness and locally created programs to perform network traffic analysis, vulnerability scans and review of installed software services prior to implementation on the Air Force Evaluated/Approved Product Listing - provided guidance to clients on mitigation strategies  • Provided Tier 2 and 3 support for SharePoint environment Managed SharePoint workflow process to facilitate application requests entering testing, validation, and implementation within the test environment Resolved issues with SharePoint environment  • Perform troubleshooting of telecommunications networks; coordinating outage resolutions with multiple distant end sites. Established and maintained procedures involving the tasks to maintain telecommunications networking systems  • Handled COMSEC to update communication link encryption  • Developed and documented system administration procedures. Trained other team members  • Accepted, developed and implemented complex configuration changes associated with the (OSR) network and other related systems.  • Performed systems administration, database administration, master document upkeep, account management, software support and maintenance, outage documentation review, and repair of computer systems  • Monitored for and ensured Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIG) compliance, security, and performance.  • Designed, maintained and updated Microsoft Access databases used for recording training, outage tracking, and create reports to provide to higher leadership.  • Installed, configured, updated and maintained advanced servers, Internet Information Services (IIS) and Windows based desktops.  • Created step-by-step instructions for security assessment processes - seamless transition for new team members  • Performed complicated repairs of circuits to meet US Military installation specifications through systematic troubleshooting, complex equipment conditioning, re-engineering, modifying, and re-testing.  • Provided operational control and technical supervision over designated US military Defense Communications Systems, satellite, and other communications facilities.  • Responsible for performing corrective and preventative maintenance on Air Force Satellite Control Network (AFSCN) equipment, Mission Communications equipment, Secure Communications equipment and Mission Computer equipment. TCC Lead Technician Peraton (Formally Harris IT services) - Sunnyvale, CA June 2009 to March 2010 • Designed, tested, and implemented the first cyber defense system of the Air Force Satellite Control Network (AFSCN).  • Configured and updated Snort files. Searched indexed Bro Intrusion Detection System (IDS) on Splunk server and extracted raw packet capture (pcap) files for network traffic data analyzation.  • Configured, administered, operated, maintained telecommunications routers, switches and devices, using ATM and IP technology and a complex configuration of multiple vendor products and systems.  • Operated and maintained Optical Switch Replacement (OSR) Systems, WANIUs, encryption devices and other systems associated with AFSCN Operational Control Node (OCN) at Vandenberg AFB, CA  • Optimized system operation and resource usage, performed system capacity analysis, and planning.  • Utilized VMware V-Cloud Director, Wireshark, NetWitness and locally created programs to perform network traffic analysis, vulnerability scans and review of installed software services prior to implementation on the Air Force Evaluated/Approved Product Listing - provided guidance to clients on mitigation strategies  • Provided Tier 2 and 3 support for SharePoint environment Managed SharePoint workflow process to facilitate application requests entering testing, validation, and implementation within the test environment Resolved issues with SharePoint environment  • Perform troubleshooting of telecommunications networks; coordinating outage resolutions with multiple distant end sites. Established and maintained procedures involving the tasks to maintain telecommunications networking systems  • Handled COMSEC to update communication link encryption  • Developed and documented system administration procedures. Trained other team members  • Accepted, developed and implemented complex configuration changes associated with the (OSR) network and other related systems.  • Performed systems administration, database administration, master document upkeep, account management, software support and maintenance, outage documentation review, and repair of computer systems  • Monitored for and ensured Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIG) compliance, security, and performance.  • Designed, maintained and updated Microsoft Access databases used for recording training, outage tracking, and create reports to provide to higher leadership.  • Installed, configured, updated and maintained advanced servers, Internet Information Services (IIS) and Windows based desktops.  • Created step-by-step instructions for security assessment processes - seamless transition for new team members  • Performed complicated repairs of circuits to meet US Military installation specifications through systematic troubleshooting, complex equipment conditioning, re-engineering, modifying, and re-testing.  • Provided operational control and technical supervision over designated US military Defense Communications Systems, satellite, and other communications facilities.  • Responsible for performing corrective and preventative maintenance on Air Force Satellite Control Network (AFSCN) equipment, Mission Communications equipment, Secure Communications equipment and Mission Computer equipment. Systems Administrator Cablofil/Legrand PW Products - Pico Rivera, CA September 2001 to May 2009 • Installed and administer Microsoft Exchange Servers. Installed and administer Microsoft SQL Server.  • Administered and upgraded Microsoft Great Plains.  • Designed Microsoft Active Directory domain.  • Designed and expanded the physical local network. Interconnected local network to two other sites over a Frame-relay network. Upgraded frame-relay network to MPLS service using BGP, and dual T-1 connectivity.  • Installed and configured HP print servers. Repaired, upgraded, and purchased computers equipment.  • Updated and integrated quote and orders program with SQL Server Systems Administrator Cablofil/Legrand PW Products - Pico Rivera, CA September 2001 to February 2008 • Installed and administer Microsoft Exchange Servers. Installed and administer Microsoft SQL Server.  • Administered and upgraded Microsoft Great Plains.  • Designed Microsoft Active Directory domain.  • Designed and expanded the physical local network. Interconnected local network to two other sites over a Frame-relay network. Upgraded frame-relay network to MPLS service using BGP, and dual T-1 connectivity.  • Installed and configured HP print servers. Repaired, upgraded, and purchased computers equipment.  • Updated and integrated quote and orders program with SQL Server. Education Master of Information Systems Management in Information Security Keller Graduate School 2013 Bachelor of Science in Telecommunications Management Institute of Technology 1999 Associates of Arts in Music Long Beach City College 1992 Skills Visio, Dreamweaver, Bgp, Cisco, Eigrp, Mpls, Ospf, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Ethernet, Token ring, Red hat, Backup exec, Wireshark, Microsoft project, Linux, Symantec, Illustrator, Microsoft office, Photoshop, Active Directory, System Administrator (10+ years), DNS, Vmware, Powershell Certifications/Licenses Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) October 2014 to September 2020 Cisco Certified Design Professional (CCDP) May 2009 to May 2021 Cisco Certified Network Professional (CCNP) May 2009 to May 2021 Red Hat Certified System Administrator (RHCSA) January 2019 to January 2022 CompTIA Security+ February 2010 to Present Microsoft Certified System Administrator (MCSA) Additional Information Technical Skills:  • Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows, Microsoft Server, Red Hat Linux  • Hardware: Cisco Routers (1700, 2500, 2600, ISR2800, 3300, 3400, 7500, AS5000, AGS+); Cisco Switches (2900, 3750, 5500, 6500); Intel Switches, 3COM Switches (3300)  • Software: Microsoft Office Suite, Microsoft Project, Microsoft Visio, Adobe Creative Cloud (includes Photoshop, Illustrator, Dreamweaver), McAfee Virus Scan, Symantec Backup Exec, Wireshark  • Protocols/Technologies: TCP/IP, MPLS, OSPF, EIGRP, BGP, Ethernet, Token Ring