Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer - Leidos, Inc Work Experience Systems Engineer Leidos, Inc February 2019 to Present • Provided server and desktop support, maintenance, upgrades, and research for new installations and planning for updated system.  • Prepared workstations and laptops deployment running SCCM.  • Interfaced with clients to define report deliverables and discuss issues, questions, and improvements    US Coast Guard / TISCOM / Alexandria, VA Systems Technician Systems Technican with Computer World Services - Alexandria, VA August 2018 to December 2018 • Provided technical assistance for US Coast Guard service members and contractors.  • Prepared VoIP phone setup for clients. Nortel Avaya Phone system: Built, replaced, troubleshoot phones (Nortel IP telephones); Voicemail maintenance/creation; Voicemail reset.  • Prepared and configured Cisco Catalyst 3850 48-ports switches for Coast Guard facility campus. Cisco Switches: Enabled/disabled switch ports; Troubleshoot, configured, and deployed new switches.  • Prepared workstations and laptops deployment running SCCM. Systems Engineer PrimeSource Technologies - Washington, DC October 2017 to July 2018 Department of State/Bureau of Verification, Compliance, and Implementation/Nuclear Risk Reduction Center, Washington, DC  Systems Engineer with PrimeSource Technologies. 10/2017 - 7/2018    • Provided tier 2 and 3 level support for users in the AVC\NRRC.  • Provided server and desktop support, maintenance, upgrades, and research for new installations and planning for updated system.  • Created Knowledge Base Artifacts for current and future updates and changes to the networks, by uncovering and mapping the current virtual network for expansion to more virtual machines.  • Upgraded, repaired, and maintained multiple systems on the main NRRC and external to NRRC network, including troubleshooting with other local and overseas agencies.  • Assisted with encryptions devices and hardware/software.  • Maintained Development systems in the AWS Cloud.  • Monitored and maintained System health and performance  • Managed and updated Windows Patches and antivirus on all servers and workstations. Systems Engineer ClearAvenue/Acuity Inc - Washington, DC July 2017 to October 2017 7/2017 - 10/2017    • Planned and performed Windows 2008/2012 R2 server patching/upgrading  • Converted application data stored in a relational database into reports using reporting design tools  • Collaborated with customers to gather requirements and translates business requirements into report specifications  • Interfaced with clients to define report deliverables and discuss issues, questions, and improvements  • Conducted routine server maintenance using VSphere/VMware to reset virtual systems on the network Washdc/Appservices  • Maintained, backups/restores, and monitored all database server environments  • Provided ongoing SQL database support in fail-over multiple-cluster production environment  • Planned and performed required database upgrades and migration (patches, etc.)  • Maintained current industry knowledge of development concepts, best practices and procedures for database server  • Assisted the technical application team with database migrations and single data loads  • Ensured Windows 2008/2012 R2 servers and SQL database servers comply with applicable client system security standards  • Supported clients' managing of operations through report development, quality assurance, and analysis Systems Administrator Domestic Nuclear Detection Office/US Department of Homeland Security - Washington, DC September 2015 to May 2017 • Coordinated with EIS project manager and other operation staff to prepare the blueprint of the AWS architecture. Provided status reports and other updates and documentation as needed.  • Performed software updates, security and critical patching using Shavlik 9.2 Protect Standard.  • Facilitated/conducted remote patch management, software distribution, operating system deployments, upgrades and network access protection.  • Assisted technical support on Windows 2008 R2 servers/SQL database servers comply with applicable client system security standards throughout operation.  • Assisted in providing technical inputs to various system administration processes focused on access management and security.  • Reviewed current systems and provided technical/process recommendations for improving efficiency.  • Supported strategic planning and development of recommendations for automation, process improvements and incorporation of new technologies specific to access management.  • Managed Enterprise McAfee Endpoint Encryption 5.3  • Managed Windows Servers 2008 R2 by remote session to Gate U network hosting on VSphere/VMware 6  • Updated Windows Deployment Services on Windows Servers 2008 R2 update system drivers and WinPE. Systems Administrator Veteran Affairs Office - Washington, DC April 2015 to September 2015 • Coordinated with VACOLS project manager and other stakeholders on all tasks. Provide status reports and other updates and documentation as needed.  • Managed network printing and scanning devices such as Fujitzu scanners, Xerox WorkCentre and HP digital Sender Flow 8500.  • Managed Servers 2003 2008 R2 by remote session to jumpboxes such as print servers, Managed printers on the print servers and reserved IP addresses for devices from the DHCP servers. Systems Administrator/Tier Level III Support KForce/Lookheed Martin - Washington, DC January 2013 to January 2015 • Managed hostnames and users location on the Active Directory accordingly to the DHS site codes.  • Managed Servers 2003 2008 R2 by remote session to jumpboxes such as print servers, and other servers with SCCM client to deployed software.  • Managed printers on the print servers and reserved IP addresses for devices from the DHCP servers.  • Deployed on-site and remote software application support to over 100 staff members with computer and network account related issues such as software troubleshoot and configuration problems; setup and provided application support for MS Office 2010, Java security settings, Lync 2010, Internet Explorer security options, CAC readers/SSL/TLS certificates, VPN access and remote desktop user support.  • Supported nationwide remote DHS clients on updates Juniper 7.4 VPN connection transition process. Tier Level III Technical Support Fort Belvoir Community Hospital - Fort Belvoir, VA August 2011 to December 2012 with Clovis Group, Subcontractor with STS    • Managed and surveying desktop workstations and laptop to prepare SCCM deployment of Windows 7 imaging package.  • Troubleshoot network switches on port security base on MAC addresses, VLAN issues from Dell desktops, HP printers and Xerox copier devices.  • Improved deployment package, setup schedule image and patching for desktop using SCCM.  • Trains end-users on software packages and standard IT procedures as required; participates in new application deployment, testing and special projects as needed.  US Army Corps of Engineers, Washington, D.C.    Desktop Administrator with the experts 4/2009 to11/2010  Subcontractor with Lockheed Martin    • Managed hostnames and users location on the Active Directory accordingly to the DHS site codes.  • Managed Servers 2003 2008 R2 by remote session to jumpboxes such as print servers, and other servers with SCCM client to deployed software.  • Managed printers on the print servers and reserved IP addresses for devices from the DHCP servers.    • Deployed on-site and remote software application support to over 100 staff members with computer and network account related issues such as software troubleshoot and configuration problems; setup and provided application support for MS Office 2010, Java security settings, Lync 2010, Internet Explorer security options, CAC readers/certificates, VPN access and remote desktop user support.  • Supported nationwide remote DHS clients on updates Juniper 7.4 VPN connection transition process.  • Troubleshoot print servers spool services during operation that affect printers on the network.  • Improved output device maintenance efficiency regarding repair down from 4 days down to 24 hours.  • Weekly written progress reports with updates to Site Manager on Output Device Survey Project. Technical Desktop Administrator Department of Energy - Rosslyn, VA November 2007 to March 2009 Yucca Mountain Project    • Delivered on-site and remote software application support to over 100 staff members with computer and network account related issues such as software troubleshoot and configuration problems; setup and provided application support for MS Office, ADIIS, Oracle database, Lotus Notes, Internet Explorer, RAS, VPN access and remote desktop user support. Deployed and assembled computer hardware systems for all staff.  • Setup and installed Fedora Linux 10 (Unix) baseline workstation to prepare remote server administration.  • Organized and maintained 10 work orders daily using the Request Tracker Ticket Tracking System.  • Implemented the loading process of a RIS document database container onto the server and created a CD media of the containers for processing.    WASHINGTON HEADQUARTER SERVICES  PENREN Renovation Project System Desktop Administrator Air Force Pentagon Communication Agency, PENTAGON March 2007 to October 2007 Subcontractor for Lockheed Martin    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Prepared install Standard Desktop Configuration on 2500 workstations and laptops for government personnel and provided support involving desktop migration on Dell refresh and replacement such as imaging, data backups and other associated support activities.  • Installed drivers and configured DoD CAC card readers for PENREN users; hard drives with new images on existing systems and replaced old systems with new refresh systems.    DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY Dell System Deployment & Technical Administrator Subcontractor for UNISYS - Reston, VA October 2006 to February 2007 Transportation Security Administration (TSA), Reston, VA    Dell System Deployment & Technical Administrator with TekSystems Inc.  Subcontractor for UNISYS 10/2006 to 2/2007    • Organized systems deployment and migration for over 2,000 Dell desktops and performed workstations hard disk deletions to clear all data and security content.  • Prepared inventory and documentation concerning workstations, usernames, locations and etc.    DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE  Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA), Chantilly, VA IT Administrator CDI IT August 2005 to September 2006 Subcontractor for Northrop Grumman and SETA    • Troubleshoot and isolated problems on network communications areas and desktop workstations (over 2500 workstations); for Windows XP clients: including configuration restore, patches, connectivity and etc. Troubleshoot, trace problems on fiber/optical connections from jacks to hubs/switches on both unclassified/classified network. Connected transceivers on fibers to workstations and printers.  • Produced documentation for circuits and added to network diagram in Visio for the move on DTRC.  • Patched fiber ST & LC cables to Cisco switches, panels for both Classified and Unclassified connections. Level III Support Engineer DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE, Tax Division - Washington, DC January 2005 to July 2005 Subcontractor for Mantech    • Performed software and hardware evaluations (e.g., service packs, hot fixes, peripherals).  • Setup Windows 2003 Server and Exchange 2003 at staging area for experiment new hardware and Active Directory components. Migrated Exchange 5.5 to 2003 using migration tools for the transition.  • Deployed packages on software updates to workstations using SMS 2.0.  • Performed security patches for NOS updates in the Active Directory using SMS.  • Managed IIS web application servers, performed patching and mitigation of vulnerabilities. Administrator ITSS, Subcontractor for SAIC - Fairfax, VA April 2004 to November 2004 4/2004 to 11/2004    • Analyzed, defined network requirements, and maintained network architecture and infrastructure. Configured and optimized network servers, routers, switches, KVM, UPS and blade servers DRAC Dell remote network cards. Worked with SMS 2003 on managing servers, workstations and troubleshoot remote systems.  • Hands-on with server builds on Windows 2003 server prepared for testing before deployment.  • Developed network documentation, procedure, environmental assessment, server Ghost image composed, and troubleshoot installation procedures on usage of hardware & software.  • Performed discovery and trust relations between networks by PortQry.  • Used VMware to test host builds and experiment the Windows host virtualization platforms.  • Conducted site survey using (Quest Reporter tool) to gathering data for migration requirements and implementation, drew network diagrams using Visio. Installed and configured SQL2000 server to prepared Quest Reporter tool. Education High School Diploma Northern Virginia Community College - Annandale, VA 1988 George Mason Junior Senior High School - Falls Church, VA Skills Deployment, Internet explorer, Ras, Technology infrastructure, Vpn, Database, Sql, Network administration, Networking, Ms office, Technical support, Security, Telecom, Maintenance, Lotus notes, Documentation, Application support, Operations, Federal government, American red cross Certifications/Licenses Network+ Certification October 2010 to Present A+ Certified November 2010 to Present Security+ January 2011 to February 2014 In progress of renewal and reinstated; retaking the exam Additional Information SUMMARY OF TECHNICAL EXPERTISE    • 20+ years performing desktop systems and network administration for federal government agencies, the American Red Cross, and small businesses.    • Delivered on-site and remote software application support to over 100 staff members with computer and network account related issues such as software troubleshoot and configuration problems; setup and provided application support for MS Office, ADIIS, SQL database, Lotus Notes, Internet Explorer, RAS, VPN access and remote desktop user support. Deployed and assembled computer hardware systems for all staff.    • Technical supervisor for two IT professionals and managed supply acquisition for all output devices and accessories. Provided weekly documentation and updates to Site Manager on technology infrastructure and process, "Output Device Survey Project." Managed and maintained standardize procedures for IT operations and technical support for over 250 output devices.    • Improved print servers operation concerning performance capacity by maintenance tuning and monitoring.    • Improved output device maintenance efficiency concerning repairs from 3-4 days down to same day or 24 hours at the latest.    • Organized large scale desktop systems deployment and migration (over 2,500 workstations); designed networking and telecom technologies system to accommodate scalability and security requirements.    • Active Secret Security Clearance with Department of Defense, 1997 & 2011.