Coordinating consultant build of new systems Coordinating consultant build of new <span class="hl">systems</span> Coordinating consultant build of new systems - Peoplesoft Administration Worthington, OH Senior IT professional with 20 years of experience building strong teams and enterprise level IT systems. Strong commitment to customer service and project delivery.  • Enterprise Collaboration  • Problem resolution  • Solutions Architect  • Customer Service focus  • Vendor Management  • SQL and relational Database  • Managing off-shore resources  • Project Management  • Security Compliance  • Team Development  • Systems Integration Work Experience Coordinating consultant build of new systems Peoplesoft Administration 2017 to Present 2017 - Current  Moved to the Peoplesoft team to help coordinate technical implementation of upgraded systems. Managing interdepartmental relationships and Integration into Human Resources and Financial systems.  • Peoplesoft Administration - Coordinated infrastructure build of Peoplesoft 9.2 Finance and HR systems.  • Oracle Database integration.  • Integrated Phire system to control deployment of Peoplesoft code into environment.  • Coordinating consultant build of new systems. Liaising with internal teams to facilitate timely build of systems to support implementation of new environment.  • Implemented Phire Change Management system Senior IT Engineer Abercrombie & Fitch - New Albany, OH 2006 to Present IT Manager 2012 to 2016 Managed team of cross functional engineers that handled enterprise level apps encompassing logging, Enterprise collaboration, Ecommerce analytics, Environmental Monitoring and DNS.    • Lead and coordinated project update meetings, and documents project status and issues.  • Created Project dashboards for quick reporting.  • Proactively managed changes in project scope, identified potential crisis, and devised contingency plans.  • Evaluated business objectives that require new systems or enhancements to existing systems.  • Supported project initiatives, including identifying and analyzing preliminary business and legal needs, budget considerations, time and resource estimates, defining the project scope and objectives, and getting business user sign-off.  • Defined project scope, goals and deliverables that support business goals in collaboration with senior management and stakeholders and attended kick-off meeting.  • Developed full-scale project plans and associated communications documents.  • Planned and scheduled project timelines and milestones using Microsoft Project  • Architected and deployed Integration of Office 365 mail and Lotus Notes to facilitate move to Office 365.  • Part of Incident Manager rotation team. Organizing and coordinating teams to address high impact incidents that impact the company's ability to do business.  • Managing team that supports Tealeaf, Splunk, Domino Application servers, Domino Mail system, Iconics, RS2, HVAC and monitoring platforms. This team is comprised of on site and off shore resources.  • Trained multiple Lotus Notes/Domino administrators.  • Managed team of systems administrators that engineered and supported our corporate Content Manager, Tealeaf, Splunk and Infoblox systems. These systems supported over 13,000 employees in 20 countries with an up-time over 99%.  • Infrastructure lead on an initiative to offshore enterprise level application level support that saved the company $100,000 per year while still expanding services supported.  • Designed and implemented redundant intercontinental InfoBlox, DNS and IPAM system.  • Implementation of Splunk log aggregation within environment.  ? Coordinated the on boarding of data streams from e-commerce, unix systems, Windows, Infoblox and mail systems. Senior Systems Engineer 2009 to 2012 • Ran Quickr Implementation within organization to better communicate with our vendors.  • Coordinated the implementation of Tealeaf web analysis tool.  • Implemented GMSI's Iconics system for environment monitoring within Distribution Center.  • Part of coordinated rollout and upgrades of our systems to support RMS.  • Managed deployment of all applications into Domino Environment. Systems Engineer 2006 to 2009 • Managed Blackberry Enterprise server.  • International and regional deployment of servers.  • Domino 8 upgrade from version 6.  • iPhone implementation - participated in the IBM beta of Notes traveler with iPhone integration in 2008.  • Rebuilt security on all Domino Applications within the environment.  • Collaborated in development of applications used in stores for employee communication, performance evaluations and other HR related functions.  • Coordinated deployment of iNotes with Sametime integration. Accessible both internal and external to the Abercrombie network.  • Integrated Voice Mail into our mail system via Domino Unified Communications. Senior Systems Administrator Huntington National Bank - Columbus, OH 2003 to 2006 • Deployed new servers and planned infrastructure upgrades and needs analysis.  • Implemented Anti Spam solution using the -PureMessage product from Sophos.  • Merged Leasenet/Unizan's mail and Blackberry system into Huntington's.  • Implemented Assentor Archive to meet email retention compliance for licensed brokers and Sarbanes Oxley compliance.  • Implemented Instant Messaging with Sametime from Lotus.  • Set best practices for mail usage.  • Set up SecureMail through Tumbleweed.  • Upgraded all servers to Domino 6.5x from Domino 5.11.  • Organized, developed and deployed upgrade of all notes Clients to version 6.5 of Notes from 5.x.  • Upgraded and maintained Blackberry server software and client configurations and policies.  • Wrote documentation for new products and procedures.  • Acted as Trainer for new product and services. Creating material and presenting demonstrations.  • Acted as Third level support and On call technician Systems Administrator/Developer e-Bank - Columbus, OH August 2000 to February 2001 as a contractor working on site for APR  February 2001 to April 2003 as a direct employee    • Worked with team to build CRM applications to better blend bank customer's experience as a whole through multiple business channels.  • Administered and developed Notes environment.  • Modified current databases to suit the company's needs and developed new Notes applications as necessary.  • Coordinated security and connections to external companies and Domains.  • Planned direction to determine how Notes will work within the network infrastructure.  • Developed Payroll tracking systems that allowed users intranet access through an Internet browser while telecommuting.  • Created Tools that accurately reported billable time for e-Bank's customers.  • Managed all security for internal and external users to the e-Bank Notes Systems.  • Built multiple web-enabled applications for Sales and Marketing initiatives using Domino servers.  • Created Marketing Material for web distribution using Dream Weaver and Photo Shop.  • Modified and administered Purchase Order and Inventory systems.  • Built and managed Mail servers and administered Internet based mail retrieval for the company. Technical Account Manager National Tech Team - Dearborn, MI 1996 to 2000 • Managed ongoing relationship with customers for current services and architecting new solutions.  • Directed and managed the project development from beginning till end.  • Proactively managed changes in project scope, identified potential crisis, and devised contingency plans.  • Developed and delivered progress reports, proposals, requirements documentation, and presentations.  • Determined the frequency and content of status reports from the project team, and analyzed results.  • Effectively communicated project expectations to team members and stakeholders in a timely and clear fashion.  • Engaged in sales calls with new customers and made recommendations for new projects with existing customers.  • Acted as customer liaison to Daimler-Chrysler, GE and Maytag. Ensured project and customer's needs were consistently being met.  • Managed a team that handled international deployment of systems.  • Managed staff of 12 Developers that primarily designed and customized applications in support of ISO 9000 initiatives. Handled primary customer interaction of goal setting and delivery of product.  • Architected and supervised international roll out of customized software for Knowledge Management System. This was a joint venture between Argentina, Germany and United States for Daimler-Chrysler.  • Developed and modified Lotus Notes databases using Notes version 4.6 and 5.0, using Notes formula language, and Lotus Script  • Directly supported the following products for the Lotus Corporation: Lotus Notes Document Imaging Products, Lotus Fax Server, Mass Storage system, Image Processing Server, Optical Character Recognition servers, DFS, Pager Gateway, and Wireless Access.  • Provided computer support for various software applications, hardware and networks for 15,000 users nationally in a team of 30 for Price Waterhouse.  • Participated in the roll out for firm wide upgrade from Win 3.1 to Win 95 including MS office. Merchandise Manager Best Buy - Southgate, MI 1993 to 1996 Duties included sales, scheduling, evaluations, hiring, training, staff management, customer relations, merchandising and goal setting for a high volume store. Education Bachelor's Degree in Telecommunications Michigan State University - East Lansing, MI 1987 to 1992