Linux/Unix Systems Engineer 4 Linux/Unix <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer 4 Linux/Unix Systems Engineer 4 - DAIMLER Tualatin, OR Work Experience Linux/Unix Systems Engineer 4 DAIMLER July 2018 to Present Linux (RHEL 5/6/7, SuSE 11/12, Ubuntu 18), IBM AIX (versions 5.3/ 6.1/ 7.1) and Network systems administration including installation, configuration, migrations, patch management, capacity planning, diagnosis/problem resolution, system security, performance monitoring and tuning. Administration of systems utilizing virtualization technologies; VMWare ESXi, Logical Partitions (LPar), Docker, Virtual I/O Server (VIOS) with NPIV, Live Partition Mobility (LPM). Automation of systems management utilizing Puppet Enterprise/Foreman, Git, BigFix, Bolt, Spacewalk, scripting and Jira workflow. Administration of Linux integration with LDAP/Active Directory. Collaboration with Applications/Development teams in support of projects/initiatives. Network Systems Administrator MODA HEALTH April 2010 to June 2018 Director switches IBM September 2011 to September 2011 AIX (versions 5.3/ 6.1/ 7.1) and Network systems administration including installation, configuration, migrations, patch management, capacity planning, diagnosis/problem resolution, system security, performance monitoring and tuning. Administration of systems and storage utilizing virtualization technologies; VMWare ESX, Logical Partitions (LPAR), Virtual I/O Server (VIOS) with NPIV, Live Partition Mobility (LPM), OS virtualization (WPARs) and SAN Volume Controller (SVC). Automation of systems tasks utilizing BigFix, DSH, CFEngine and NIM. Administration of Linux/Unix integration with LDAP/Active Directory. System platforms supported include IBM BladeCenter, Flex, PSeries P8 S824, P770, P720, P570, P6-520, and HMC. Storage/SAN platforms supported include IBM SAN768B-2 (Brocade DCX) Director switches, Netapp 8040 cDOT (CIFS/NFS), IBM XIVs, V3700, DS5100, Flashsystems 900/840 and TS3584. Administration and monitoring of enterprise storage utilizing Linux/Unix Logical Volume Manager (LVM), Brocade Network Advisor (BNA), Tivoli Storage Manager (TSM), Veeam, and Tivoli Productivity Center (TPC). Installation and administration of applications including MySQL. Administration of Azure/Office 365 Admin Center. Management of firewalls and load balancers; Checkpoint and F5 Cluster. Worked together with Development/DBA teams on various projects and issues. Senior Systems and Network Engineer INFOCUS CORPORATION August 1995 to October 2009 Sun Solaris (versions 2.51, 7, 8 and 10) UNIX systems administration including architecture, installation, configuration, patch management, capacity planning, problem resolution, system security, performance monitoring and tuning in Oracle 9i, 10g and Engineering environments. System platforms include Sunfire E6800, E5500, V490, E450, V240/245, 280R and SunBlade 1000. Also, system upgrades and patching (OS, Firmware and apps); OS Zoning/Containers and VMware configuration; Software installation; File system security management; Account/Sudo administration; License management; NFS and NIS setup and administration; OS-kernel tuning for various applications; SSH configuration; Postfix/SMTP administration; Apache server configuration; Print server setup/administration; Local system backups using native ufsdump; Solstice TotalNet/CIFS (Windows-to-UNIX) administration; Performance tuning utilizing tools such as top, sar, vmstat and iostat; Shell scripting to automate tasks, send system alerts and status reports; Provide documentation for staff; Collaberate with Oracle DBAs to ensure that the systems are operating at peak performance levels; Conduct research and work with vendors to advise management of new technologies that increase the efficiency of the UNIX infrastructure.  Storage Area Network (SAN) architecture and administration utilizing Storage Tek 6920/6020, 3510FC and T3/T3B arrays in conjunction with Brocade Silkworm 4100, 2400, and QLogic fiber switches. Storage utilized also includes D1000, D240, A5000/A5200 Photon and S1 arrays. Disk array and switch management software utilized includes Veritas Volume Manager (VxVM), Solstice DiskSuite, Brocade Web Tools and CLI, SANsurfer Switch Manager and Component Manager. Multi-pathing is accomplished utilizing Veritas' DMP and Solaris' MPXIO. Administrative tasks includes creation and management of storage pools, zoning, configuring Raid levels/Volumes/LUNs, mapping initiators/HBAs, diagnosing issues, firmware upgrades, and capacity planning with DBAs to meet future requirements.  Silicon Graphics (SGI) UNIX and Linux systems administration including installation, upgrades, LVM, patch management and problem resolution, along with the administration of HP 9000 systems running HP-UX 11 in support of Oracle.  Installation, configuration and administration of enterprise backup systems utilizing Storage Tek L180 tape libraries and EMC Networker software in a UNIX environment.  Installation, configuration and administration of BMC Patrol and What's Up Gold for UNIX and Oracle systems monitoring.  Configuration and administration of UNIX-based Symantec/Raptor, Nokia/CheckPoint, and FWTK/Squid firewalls. Also, administration of DNS/Bind servers and TCP/IP addresses.  Administration of Engineering UNIX systems in support of development/CAD applications (Synthesis, IDEAS and Mentor Graphics), along with management of licenses utilizing FLEXlm.  Experienced in the areas of project and change management, utilizing such tools as Visio to create detailed documentation, along with participation in Sarbanes-Oxley processes.  Systems and network security monitoring and troubleshooting utilizing Network Solutions Distributed Sniffer System and Symantec Network Security (Intrusion Detection System).  Designed and implemented LAN topology. This includes installation and configuration of Cisco 7513 and 2800 routers along with Cisco Catalyst 6509, 3500 and 2900 switches utilizing VLAN, HSA, HSRP, and 100/1000 BaseTX technologies. Also, configuration and monitoring of WAN connectivity devices utilizing Juniper, Cisco (ASA, routers, IP Load Balancer) and Packeteer.  Configuration and administration of Windows 2000/2003 Server infrastructure. Management of a multiple domain Active Directory including Group Policies, OUs, DNS, DHCP, WINS, user accounts, replication, file shares, system security, print servers, capacity planning, monitoring and troubleshooting. Also, installation of system applications, licensing and patches/hotfixes. MIS Support Analyst CITY OF PORTLAND December 1994 to August 1995 Configuration and support of Novell v3.12 file servers in an Ethernet (10baseT) environment utilizing Synoptics concentrators.  Responsible for the configuration and administration of LAN/WAN connectivity devices including DEC routers (Cisco router IOS) and Novell v3.12 file servers. Protocols routed include TCP/IP, IPX/SPX and DECNET. Developed plan for redesign of LAN/WAN topology including collapsed backbone utilizing a Cisco 7507 router. Education Planning and Configuration West Los Angeles College Additional Information Extensive Linux, Unix, Network and Storage (SAN/NAS) systems administration experience.  Extensive technical training, including AWS, Red Hat, IBM, Sun, Cisco, Hitachi (HDS), Veritas.  Enterprise technical lead at Moda, leading and mentoring a team of systems administrators.  Vast experience supporting a large systems and customer base in global, 24 x 7 environments.  Brainbench certifications - Linux Administration (RHEL) and Storage Area Networks.  Excellent communications skills with the ability to interface at all levels.  Sprint Quality Award for outstanding quality of service (chosen by peers).