Senior VMware /Windows/Linux Systems Administrator Senior VMware /Windows/Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior VMware /Windows/Linux Systems Administrator - Arcserve Tampa, FL • IT Professional with 10+ years of experience in Systems Administration with a primary focus on installation, configuration, and administration of Windows server 2003/2008R2/2012, Microsoft Exchange Server, Office 365, and VMware vSphere, ESXI 4.1,5.0,5.5 ,6.0and 6.5 VMware VCenter 4.1, 5.0 and 5.5,6.0 and 6.5  • Experience in handling more than 3000+ mix of Windows server, 200+ ESXi servers, Remote data center, multiple vCenter.  • Excellent understanding on ESX/ESXI Architecture, guest OS installation, setting up of VM priorities, Cloning and Snapshots.  • Experience in creating and applying Host profile, Storage profiles.  • Experience in cloning and creating Templates from VMs, Snapshot and using vSphere features like vMotion, Storage vMotion, DRS and HA.  • Experience in building VMw are virtual servers and physical servers with Windows.  • Experience in Installing and configuring Microsoft Hyper-V and Hyper-V VMs administration.  • Experience with Cisco UCS hardware like UCS chassis 5108, Blade servers and Rackmount servers.  • Experience with VMware vSphere distributed switch and Cisco Nexus 1000V.  • Experience in Managing Multiple Windows Systems with Microsoft SCCM 2007 providing Patch Management, Remote Control, Software Distribution and OS deployment.  • Experience in installing Dell Power Edge M910, M710 Blade Servers on Dell Power Edge M1000e chassis and configuring the chassis using Chassis Management Controller (CMC).  • Experience in installing HP Proliant BL460c G6/G7/G8, BL465c G7, BL660c G8 and BL680c G7Blade Servers on HP c7000 chassis and configuring the chassis using Onboard Administrator (OA).  • Experience in Cisco UCS C200 M2, IBM System x3690 X5, EMC VNXe3100, VNX 5100 and EMC Data Domain DD640 Rack & Stack.  • Experience in Installing and configuring the vCloud Director (vCD) 1.5 and vShield Manager 5.0.  • Good Knowledge on Microsoft Azure and Create a Virtual Network on Windows Azure to connect all the servers.  • Implemented several best performance settings and group policies on VDI infrastructure for better performance of VDI environment and better user experience.  • Well experienced in Creating Templates, VDIPool creations, VDI Provisioning, VM priorities, Roles and permissions, Resource pools, VM Cloning and Knowledge of Snapshots.  • Experienced in Office 365 activities.  • Excellent knowledge of Administrator Exchange server environment.  • Experience in installing and configure the VMware NSX Appliance for setup including VMware VSphere.  • Developed strategy to migrate Dev/Test/Production from an enterprise VMware infrastructure to the IaaS Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud environment including runbook processes and procedures.  • Design complex solutions which integrate AWS cloud, on premise physical & Virtual server, EC2, S3 storage, networking and security.  • Implementing and setting up Puppet Master Server for configuring and installing the modules for automatic deployment on AWS Environment.  • Strong experience in System Administration, Installation, Upgrading Patches, Migration, Configuration, Troubleshooting, Security, Backup, Disaster Recovery, Performance Monitoring and Fine-tuning on UNIX (SUN Solaris, Red Hat Linux, Linux SUSE versions) Systems.  • Good knowledge of Microsoft SQL Database, Installing Databases, taking backup of the databases etc.  • Worked on various environments giving Production support 24/7 for Intel Windows System.  • Experience with Veeam Backup and Replication. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior VMware /Windows/Linux Systems Administrator Arcserve - Eden Prairie, MN August 2018 to Present Arcserve is a leading provider of data protection software solutions that enable mid-market, SMB and enterprise customers to backup, replicate and recover unstructured and mission critical data across a hybrid of complex storage and recovery environments.  Responsibilities:  • Installed, and supported 100+ Desktops, Laptops, Network Devices, and Computer Peripherals with the IT team  • User Support - Monitor and trouble shoot system performance, server and user related issues. Provide support to users to resolve their day-to-day issues related to OS, E-mail, Account issues, hardware etc.  • Actively handled configuration & maintenance of all systems [hardware, networking & application software & servers] desktop/user support, software installations e.g. SQL, Exchange, VMware, Exchange.  • Managed seating allocation of resources as per project need & maintained up to date inventory  • Architected and designed VMware ESX server infrastructure for multi-site/multi datacenter environment.  • Implemented VMVARE workstation & ESX, Converted Physical Server, images to ESX Virtual Machines from Workstation.  • Was Responsible for Active directory, GPO, Domain users, Administrating users and groups and given appropriate permissions and privilege to access our LAN and Domain environment.  • Responsible for troubleshooting network, database, applications, and web performance issues. Documented and maintained automation scripts for administration of servers.  • Energetically managed network connectivity requirements for project team  • Asset Management - Helped infrastructure team to Manage Leased Assets.  • Participated in network design, implementation, and troubleshooting with multi-level Cisco LANs/WANs which included: configuration of Cisco 2600 routers and Cisco Cat Switches.  • Support & Training - Provided necessary help / assistance to IT Helpdesk / Telecom Support Personal to resolve day-to-day issues.    Environment: Win 2008, Win 2012, Windows 8, Windows 10, SQL 2012, Exchange 2010, VMware vSphere 5.5, Microsoft Hyper-V. Linux server administrator AWS July 2016 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Implementing vRealize Operations Manager 6.x and created intuitive and customizable dashboards, views and reports for Enterprise customers in monitoring their infrastructure environment with analytics and proactive remediation.  • Service now integration with vRealize Automation.  • Deploying, configuring and managing vRealize suite products vRealize Automation, vRealize Operations, vRealize Orchestrator, vRealize Business Suite, vRealize Log Insight.  • Upgrading of ESXi from version 5.5 to version 6.x while keeping the VM's in maintenance mode.  • Creating all application and development Administrator, as well as groups, share and NTFS, FAT, REFS permissions.  • Administration of VMware ESX and ESXi Servers on Dell PowerEdge servers.  • Creating Virtual Machines, cloning virtual machines, converting P2V VM-Provisioning taking Snapshots of virtual servers, HA, DRS, VMotion and Storage VMotion making sure that the data stores are not over provisioned within the DRS clusters.  • Create secured master image for Windows 2012 R2 and Windows 2016 GA for deployment of future servers in VMware Vsphere.  • Experience in Installation and Configuration of Single Sign on Server (SSO), vCenter Inventory Services and vCenter5.1.  • Setup/confirm daily backup of SQL data/Virtual Machines, upkeep DNS/DHCP.  • Design, Implementation and Troubleshooting VMware ESXi 6.0 Hosts, VMware vSphere virtual center.  • Maintaining Visio drawings and SCOM for servers, routers and switches.  • Provision and Administer Hyper-V hosts, Guest OS with SCVMM 2012 SP1 admin console.  • Microsoft SCCM 2012 troubleshooting, installation of applications, backup, recovery & disaster recovery.  • Deployed json template to create a stack in CloudFormation which include services like Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon RDS, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, Amazon VPC, and other services of the AWS infrastructure.  • Maintained the user accounts (IAM), RDS, Route 53, VPC, RDB, Dynamo DB, SES, SQS and SNS services in AWS cloud.  • Redesigned infrastructure for high availability using multiple AWS availability zones.  • Dynamically add and remove servers from AWS production environment.  • Migrating legacy environment from VMware to new Hyper-V 2012 dynamic datacenter.  • Responsible for the implementation of VMware View VDI upgrades, Change Management, Problem Management, and ITIL related process.  • Installation and configuration of EMC Power Path in ESXi for SAN Storage Path optimization.  • Performed day-to-day operational support of the SAN environment. This will include storage provisioning (LUN creation, Masking, Mapping) problem diagnostics/resolution on IBM XIV.  • plan and execute EMC to IBM data center Migration.  • Involved in creation of virtual switches and configuration of NIC for a clustered environment.  • Troubleshoot and resolve the Storage related issues generated in the production, Development and testing environments using vCops.  • Worked on VRealize Operations manager(VROPS) for monitoring the vcenter alerts.  • Used VMware VCenter, created Datacenter Environment by creating VMware clusters, adding ESX/ESXi hosts in the clusters, and implemented HA and DRS.  • Used PowerShell, PowerCLI scripts for migrating VMs, creating snapshots.  • Install, configure, monitor, Troubleshoot and administer Linux and Windows systems in physical and virtualized environments.  • Efficient on working with system performance and monitoring tools like Nagios, BMC, Tivoli, Cacti and splunk.  • Migrated User mailboxes from Exchange 2010 to Office 365.  • Worked on Deploying and Migrating Microsoft Exchange 2013 to Office 365 Environment.  • Used built-in Exchange Migration tools to move data from the On-Premises to the Office 365 environment.  • Performed Pre-migration test for user from Exchange 2013 to Office 365.  • Certificate renewal process for vSphere 5.5 using the SSL automation tool (command line utility).  Environment: VMware ESX 3.5/4.0/4.1, ESXi 5.5/5.1/5.0, vSphere 5.5/5.1/5.0, VCenter 5.5/5.1/5.0, MS Windows Server 2016/ 2012 R2/2008 R2/2003, Office 365, Clusters, SAN, NIC, EMC, Virtual Switches, P2V, V2V, AWS, Unix Shell Scripting, Red Hat Linux 6, SQL Server, SCCM, Office 365, MS Exchange server, Nagios, Splunk, Azure, VCenter Single Sign-On VMware/ Linux System Administrator Rent-A-Center - Boston, MA January 2014 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Installing and Managing ESX and ESXi servers on HP, DELL and Installation of vCenter Server, vCenter Components and upgrading VMware Tools.  • Designed and configured ESXi 5.5 infrastructure environment for huge Data Center migration.  • Performed physical to virtual (VMware) Migrations for over 180 servers using VMware Converter Standalone.  • Troubleshooting IIS application based on monitoring and logs generated on the server.  • Maintained high degree of competency across the Microsoft Application Platform, focusing on .NET Framework, WCF, Windows Azure, AppFabric, and SQL Azure.  • Expert working knowledge of Microsoft Windows Server 2012 r2, Active Directory/LDAP and Group Policy administration in a hybrid-cloud configuration (Windows Azure) with 40+ replicated sites.  • Develop PowerShell script to automate Active Directory and server tasks and Generate reports for administrators and management.  • As a member of the team, participated installing Exchange 2010 servers, created & configured DAG, installed Mailbox, HUB and CAS servers.  • Used Windows Azure portal to manage Virtual Network and Traffic Manager  • Performed AWS Cloud administration managing EC2 instances, S3, SES and SNS services.  • Installed, configured, administered, monitored Azure, IAAS and PAAS, Azure AD.  • Involved in Creating and Managing VMware cluster with HA and DRS.  • Extensively worked with Active Directory Services, IIS Servers, DNS, and DHCP.  • Installation of Linux servers and creation of VM's using the web console vcenter on VMware ESXi.  • Expertise in security hardening (iptables/selinux) major Production Servers, and compiling, building and installing web server based Linux tools.  • Provide day-to-day SAN/NAS support for complex design and implementation requests  • Design, build and maintain test labs with enterprise NAS, SAN, LAN, computer clients, disk and tape storage systems and interconnections.  • Experiencing with Nagios, splunk and snmp monitoring  • Scripting using Shell for Day to Day tasks.  • Worked on Puppet, Unix Shell scripting to build automated deployment tools.  • Worked on Microsoft Office 365 (Installed, Configured, Documented fixes and common issues).  • Implementation of Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI) Solutions for remote global users.  • Configured DHCP server and VMware View Personal Management that managed 200 floating-licensed virtual machines with 2000 roaming profiles.  • Assist in troubleshoot VM performance issues with the help of Vrealize Operations.  • Packaged applications with VMware ThinApp and Citrix for deployment in virtual desktop environments.  • Designed a training environment for the technicians to train on building a datacenter that includes domain controller, DHCP, DNS, Exchange, and Open Filer server.  • Migration of all the legacy ESX/ESXi v5.x to V5.5 update 3b, in the current environment.  • Involved in installing and configuring ESXi5.5 /Win 2008R2/Win Server2012R2 on HP Blade (BL460c G8) and Rackmount server (DL 580 G8) using iLO.  • Installed and configured vCenter server 5.5, created virtual Datacenters, multiple clusters and added ESXi hosts.  • Installed and configured SRM 5.5 like adding Array managers, creating protection group and recovery plans, tested the recovery.  • Installed and configured Operations Manager, generated day to day reports to monitor and manage the performance of virtual environment.  • Built Windows 2008R2/2012 on Blade Servers and Rackmount Servers.  • Built windows 2008R2/2012 virtual servers.  • Configuring HA, DRS clusters, creating Affinity rules and configuring FT when required.  Environment: vSphere 5.0, Hyper-V, Redhat Linux5, Windows 2008/2003/2008 R2, Cisco UCS 5108, HP Blade C7000 and C3000, Dell PowerEdge Servers, ESXi 4.1/5.1, VCenter server 4.1, Windows 2003/2008/2008 R2 server, HP Proliant DL580G7, HP Proliant DL360G7, AWS, Nagios, Azure. Windows administrator Alcon - Irvine, CA November 2012 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Experience in figuring out on the SAN, principles like topologies, switch zoning (delicate & rough), LUN protecting on SAN Storage contraptions, LUN production and Storage administration.  • Configuring DRS, HA& useful resource pools in ESX 4.0  • Configuring ESX 4.0 servers to use iSCSI & NAS storage.  • Configuring and managing VCB backup proxy server.  • Backup & fix management of the virtual Machines.  • Experience with tools like VMware Converter, Plate Spin, Power Convert & VeeamFastSCP to work on ESXi environment for the P2V and V2Vconversions.  • Implementation of Active directory infrastructure and Vcenter Fundamentals, protocols (such as TCP/IP, DHCP, DNS), and Profile administration.  • Knowledge in deploying VM's, running applications, making use of System Center Configuration supervisor SCCM 2012 R2.  • On a team for datacenter operations, including maintenance, Hyper-V and server builds, backup and replication activities.  • Manage Production and Test environment server maintenance including monthly patching and Troubleshoot any server problems.  • Participate in the verification of DNS and Exchange 2010 systems and made changes to infrastructure to better suite migration effort.  • Maintained & managed Microsoft Azure platform & its applications like cloud, app service, active directory, visual studio.  • Created Snapshots according to customer requests and requirement.  • Maintained internet Servers by installing IIS 6, FTP websites and creating Virtual Directories in IIS6.  • Expert on Managing, installing, and helping desktop windows 2003/2008 Servers, and VMware ESX Servers 4.0/4.1.  • Building ESXi 4.0/4.1Hosts and preserve these ESXi4.0 servers via Vsphere customer.  • Taking care of potential planning for brand new clusters, ESXi and Storage problems.  • Configured HA, DRS clusters, for primary VM's.  Environment: VMware VCenter, SRM, VConverter, vDS, VSphere, ESX, VMware View 4.0, VMware Update Manager 5.1, EXSi 4.0, View Administrator, ThinApp Converter, SCCM 2012, IIS6, Exchange server 2010,Nagios. VMware admin Merck - Charlotte, NC September 2010 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  • Creating and managing Virtual machines, data stores, clusters, hosts and useful resource pools.  • Updated Firmware and Proliant aid percent for /windows 2000/2003 servers.  • Created Snapshots and reverted them back on user's requirement.  • Maintained web Servers by using putting in IIS 6, FTP websites and Experience in managing ESX 4.0 server, installing, configuring it.  • Scheduling tasks and check alarms.  • Installed and configured windows and Linux servers on VM's.  • Configuring excessive Availability (HA), DRS.  • Installing VMware Tools in a Linux virtual machine using RPM and Compiler.  • Upgrading VM tools, VM hardware versions and Datastores upgrade to VMFS 5.  • Worked on building new VMware Active directory exchange and MS Exchange 2010.  • Design, Install and configure VMware vSphere 5.0 servers on Cisco UCS chassis and B250 blade servers.  • Ensured that all the software and hardware components are upgraded properly, and also designed the company's networking policy.  • Co-ordination with network team for implementation and upgrade services CISCO MDS switches.  • Working experience on different planning migration strategies with SAN and NAS data.  • Supported a large-scale Data Center projects, including server installation, hardware maintenance and break/fix activities.  • Solved many issues considering windows and VMware performance.  Environment: ESX 4.0, Vsphere 5.0, UCS chassis, B250, HA, DRS, IIS 6, FTP, VMFS 5, CLUSTERS, data stores, RPM, HP ProLiant, CISCO MDS switches. Systems Engineer Comverse Technology, Inc - Wakefield, MA July 2008 to August 2010 Responsibilities:  • Install and configure VMware vSphere 4.0 and VI 3.5 environment for hosting the servers on HP C7000 blade enclosure.  • Reconfigured all ESX network connectivity utilization VLAN tagging and teaming.  • Consolidated many smaller ESX clusters and hosts to provide optimum resource utilization.  • Deploy VMs using Templates as per requirements. Clone VMs and took snapshots of VMs.  • Created and maintained environmental specific installation and configuration guides for P2V migrations, ESX Server, vCenter Server, vSphere Clients, VMware Tools, Patch upgrades.  • Configuring, administering, maintaining & troubleshooting of windows 2000 & Windows 2003 Servers such as DC, DNS, IIS, DHCP, and Database servers.  • Created the user accounts and profiles, assigned permissions using Active Directory.  • Prepared the environment for deployment of Windows Server 2003.  • Installed, configured, and troubleshoot Windows Server 2003.  • Implemented and managed IP Addressing; configured TCP/IP addressing on a server.  • Worked on troubleshooting of Virtual Network, ESX & Virtual Machines.  • Locally & remotely managing Microsoft Windows 2003/2008 Server issues.  • Capacity planning with the help of HP Performance Insight Manager reporting tool.  Environment: Windows 2000/2003/2008 R2, Windows XP/Vista/Win 7, VMware ESXi 4.0 Server, Open filer iSCSI SAN/NAS, HP Proliant Blade Servers BL280C G6, BL460C and 620C Series, Remote desktop services. Education Bachelor of Science Computer Science Iona College - New Rochelle, NY Skills Active directory (9 years), Exchange (9 years), IIS (8 years), Internet Information Services (8 years), VMware (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  VMware  VMware vSphere 4.0, 4.1, 5.0, 5.1, 5.5,6.0 and 6.5 (ESX/ESXi), vCenter server, VMware Update Manager, VConverter, VMware vCenter Single Sign-On ,VMware view 5.1, 5.0, 4.5, 4.0, VMware ThinApp 3.5, VMware vCenter update Manager, VMware vCenter Converter, Plate spin, VMware Data Recovery, VMware vCloud Director 5.1/5,VMware Consolidated backup, SRM 5.0, VMware HA, FT, vMotion, Storage vMotion, vShield, VMware vCLI, SRM.  Operating Systems Microsoft Windows 2016,2012, 2008 R2, 2003, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6,7, Hyper-v.  Application Services  Microsoft Active Directory, DHCP, DNS and WINS Services, Microsoft Internet Information Services 6.0, Remote Desktop Service (RDS).  Protocols/Services TCP/IP, SMTP, PPP, HTTP, Telnet, SSH, DNS, DHCP, FTP and IIS.  Hardware HP Proliant DL380P gen8/gen9, BL460c, C7000, Dell R410 power edge, R630 power edge.  Desktop Application Microsoft Office 2013, Outlook 2013 and Evolution, Open Office, MS Exchange server.