Systems Engineering Consultant <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineering Consultant Senior Systems Engineer Glen Allen, VA Work Experience Systems Engineering Consultant Robert Half Technology - Henrico, VA, US 2018 to Present for Richmond Public Schools  • Currently leading a project to collapse the district's distributed computing environment across 53 separate sites to a centralized data center model.  • Manage RPS virtual/hyper-converged environment.  • Manage, edit, and author all group policies for the district.  • Manage the RPS server environment consisting of 450 servers running a mix of Windows Server 2008, 2012, 2016 and various Linux flavors.  • Leading a project to deprecate the Windows 2008 servers in the district. That number is currently 126 servers.  • Manage the district's Internet Content Filtering Appliance and Load Balancers.  • Provide advanced support and troubleshooting for the data systems that support the 30,000 end users in the environment.  • Patch and update servers monthly to maintain appropriate levels of security. IT Manager of Systems Engineering Henrico County Public Schools - Henrico, VA, US 2015 to 2018 • Managed a team of 7 Systems Engineers.  • Managed 1 web developer and 1 mobile device specialist.  • Managed all aspects of the HCPS production data center, with the exception of the network hardware, which serviced an end user population of 55,000 staff and students.  • Maintained relationships with vendors and technology manufacturers.  • Prioritized work, projects, and resources that my staff was responsible for.  • Negotiated HCPS technology contracts.  • Worked with the Director of Technology to establish budgetary figures for future projects and needs of the data center computing environment.  • Introduced ITIL based processes to the Technology Department to ensure tighter protocols were observed. This greatly reduced the number of self-inflicted outages that occurred.  • Interfaced regularly with executive staff and other stakeholders regarding projects and goals that the Technology Department had established  • Design and implementation of data center solutions for the district.  • Evaluation and onboarding of new technology. Senior Systems Engineer McGuireWoods LLP - Richmond, VA 2007 to 2014 • Supported the infrastructure compute environment of 18 domestic offices, 3 European offices, 2 North American data centers and 1 European data center.  • Designed and integrated Active Directory solutions.  • Managed group policies for the Firm.  • Managed DNS and DHCP services.  • Built, integrated and supported hundreds of Windows 2012, 2008 R2, and Windows 2003 servers.  • Managed VMware 5.x environments in the Firm's 3 data centers, and 21 offices.  • Provided support for the Firm's Citrix environment.  • Managed storage systems for the Firm's 21 offices.  • Worked closely with developers and vendors to integrate new systems and solutions into the existing infrastructure.  • Served as the Network Operations technical lead on various collaborative projects that were integrated during the year. Operations Specialist McKesson Corporation - Richmond, VA 2007 to 2007 • Responsible for monitoring the operation of computer equipment including Windows and UNIX based servers, AS/400 servers and IBM OS390 mainframe.  • Ran diagnostic tests and troubleshooting commands to assist with resolving issues related to systems, software, magnetic tape units, and other peripheral equipment.  • Ran and sorted daily and monthly print jobs by controlling queues on high volume printers.  • Managed input/output tapes and off-site tape storage.  • Verified data and performed clerical tasks in the data processing function. Owner Galaxy Consulting - Richmond, VA 2006 to 2007 Provided IT design services, installation and support to small businesses in the Richmond Metro area. Systems Administrator Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond - Richmond, VA 1998 to 2006 • Provided hardware and software support for Wintel and UNIX servers.  • Active directory administration.  • Assisted in supporting the entire 5th district server infrastructure consisting of hundreds of servers located in multiple geographic locations.  • Built, loaded the OS and apps, and configured new Compaq/HP servers.  • Configured OS security settings.  • Assisted with capacity planning based on server performance statistics.  • Participated in a 24/7 on call support rotation.  • Worked closely with developers to ensure their software operated as planned on this server.  • Responsible for keeping all servers up to date regarding security as well as patches and service packs released from the manufacturer.  • Supported remote locations in Baltimore MD, Charleston WV, Charlotte NC, and Columbia SC.  • Assisted in system backups and restores, using Veritas Backup Exec and later IBM's Tivoli Storage Manager.  • Disassembled, repaired, and reassembled servers, desktop PC's, laptops, desktop printers, laser printers and large network printers. Education AAS degree in Computer Electronics Technology in Computer Electronics Technology Technical College - Richmond, VA 1998 Skills Active directory, Dns, Load balancing, Citrix, Dhcp, Vmware, Xenapp, Business continuity, Disaster recovery, Netbackup, Veritas, Windows xp Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/taylor-grubb-43224992