systems engineer <span class="hl">systems</span> engineer systems engineer - Synergy IT solutions Mechanicsville, VA Work Experience systems engineer Synergy IT solutions November 2018 to Present Use service now to create change orders for the Capital one WINTEL security team.  ? Maintain the equipment inventory for the Virginia Capital one data centers.  ? make sure spare server chassis are ready for deployment to the data center floor. Lead systems administrator Integral Group - Richmond, VA May 2018 to October 2018 Assist with GDPR compliance.  ? Work on company IT projects such as data migrations, Microsoft Office 2016 setups and new server  creation in server 2012 and server 2016 and transition of servers migration to AWS.  ? Use Splunk and Wireshark to scan network.  ? Assist users with computer issues via Go to assist remote administration tool.  ? Deploy software to users via PDQ deploy and maintain inventory via PDQ Inventory. System Administrator Future Technologies Inc - Dahlgren, VA October 2017 to March 2018 Maintain Active Directory for multiple groups supporting multiple Navy programs.  ? Provide system administrator support to Multiple Navy programs maintaining and creating VM servers to mitigate the need for more physical devices.  ? Migrate all program assets from Windows 7 to windows 10 and ensure IA requirements are met.  ? Provide IA support for the supported programs running Wireshark, ACAS, and NESSUS.  ? Run SCAP and STIGS scans on program assets for information assurance purposes. Systems Analyst CSRA - Fort Lee, VA February 2017 to October 2017 Install Army Gold desktop images on new laptops and desktops using SCCM and utilizing hard drive  duplicators for classroom and instructor use in training soldiers.  ? Troubleshoot computer issues on server and laptops and replace components when needed.  ? Maintain classroom projectors, smart board systems, audio system, fire suppression and tank simulators.  ? Troubleshoot technical issues at the various commands at Ft Lee per REMEDY ticket description.  ? Performed large scale deployment project in conjunction with Xerox to install new printers base wide. Managed Services Engineer SyCom Technologies - Richmond, VA March 2014 to February 2017 Install and maintain clients' network infrastructure using Solar Winds and Continuum.    ? Remote manage customers' mobile devices such as cell phones, tablets and Blackberries, tracking, wiping  and deploying system updates using Maas360 and INTUNE.  ? Deploy Web root antivirus and ensure clients computer assets are virus and malware free.  BS Dunn 3  ? Detect and remove various network vulnerabilities such as crypto wall / locker and other malware, Trojans and Pups (Potentially Unwanted Programs)  ? Create, test and deploy custom Windows OS images using VMware as well as SCCM.  ? On-site, face-to-face visits to customer sites to perform maintenance, troubleshoot warranty issues and maintain customer networks and infrastructure to reestablish customer satisfaction.  ? Migrate VMWare images and data to new devices in support of the data center team.  ? Migrate customers from Microsoft Exchange and other office products to O365 cloud solution.  ? Use customer management software IT support 247, MAAS 360, MDM and Autotask to manage client  assets from a remote location and track tickets in the Sysco NOC environment  ? Installing Cisco and Barracuda network devices  ? Assist with setting up WAPs and other networking devices at customer locations. Interim Secret 2014 to 2014 System Administrator  Secondary Experience: Information Assurance Technician  Years of IT Related Experience: 20 years (16 in support of DoD)  Level of Security Clearance: Currently Interim Secret, previously Top Secret (2014)  Objective: To use my training and skills to loyally assist a company in achieving both its short and long-term goals, preferably in  support of our U.S. Military. Technical Specialist Solutions Development Corporation, NSWCDD - Dahlgren, VA July 2008 to October 2013 Maintained the network infrastructure by installing associated cables and equipment.  ? Kept the RETINA server updated with scan packages and audits.  ? Maintained deployment packages with newest Symantec endpoint encryption and antivirus audits and packages per IA guidelines for 200 work stations.  ? Used DoD Gold disk (disk with patches to be uploaded to a standalone server that has no internet / outside access) to update Classified SECRET Systems.  ? Maintained ~200 user accounts in Active Directory on Microsoft server versions Windows 2003 / 2008.  ? Maintained Group Policy objects associated with multiple technical groups and sub-groups.  ? Maintained user connectivity within the NSWCDD Q40 Ship Sensors Department Classified network by providing and maintaining PCs or WYSE thin clients connected to terminal servers.  ? Provided network support by maintaining three file servers, each with six HD Dell 2950 RAID arrays for various project storage needs.  ? Provided computer and peripheral support by building and maintaining computers to customer standards  depending on project needs.  ? Researched use of virtual servers to provide server space and functionality without accruing the financial  overhead of buying new equipment based on new Government spending guidelines. Field Trainer Solutions Development Corporation, NSWCDD - Dahlgren, VA January 2006 to May 2008 Computer technician to the Navy/Marine Corps C4I WS programs for NSWCDD.  ? Provided networking, PC support, hardware and logistics support to the ETCS (Expeditionary Tactical  Communication System) Iridium Satellite Telephone program.  ? Provided instructor / trainer services to the USMC under the ETCS (Expeditionary Tactical Communication  System) program. Computer Technician / Systems Administrator Bowhead Support Services, NSWCDD - Dahlgren, VA November 1999 to January 2006 Provided facility access control support and system administration duties for the B30 experimental multi- platform simulation laboratories and B30 personnel office areas.  ? Built computers and servers, install operating systems, maintains and accredits multi-platform machines  for new B30 employees and contractors.  BS Dunn 4  ? Maintained and installed anti-virus and other security packages to meet government accreditation  requirements. Troubleshoot connectivity, hardware and software problems with computers and peripherals including servers, printers, crystal digital displays, hubs and other networking devices.  ? Performed preventive maintenance on Windows 9x / 2000 and UNIX / Linux / Mandrake computers and laboratory support equipment at required cycles, including installing security patches and fixes.  BS Dunn 5 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ Present