Lead IT Service Management Analyst Lead IT Service Management Analyst Lead IT Service Management Analyst Manchester, MD Work Experience Lead IT Service Management Analyst Prometric, MD - Baltimore, MD May 2016 to Present • Work with the IT Director to develop and document IT Service Management policies, processes, and procedures based on ITIL best practices.  • ITIL process management - analyzes and design service management processes, research and present best practices, and drive for continuous improvements.  • Design, create and implement a training session for all new personnel and skill advancement for current team members. Providing directions for IT team members.  • Running and sharing regular operation system reports with senior staff.  • Provide application support for enterprise platforms and procedures.  • Monitor and act on high severity incidents meeting strict SLA requirements.  • Oversee Production Support and Help Desk Tier 2 support for all technical issues. Production Support Systems Analyst Prometric, MD - Baltimore, MD September 2014 to May 2016 • Identify proactive ways to reduce the number of issues and support calls in the environment.  • Author and maintain technical documentation on system support models, common issues and solutions.  • Research and recommend innovative and automated approaches for system administration tasks.  • Escalate client support tickets to appropriate resource following the escalation process and procedures.  • Respond to system alerts and incidents reported by monitoring tools. Systems Administrator Physicians Management Group - Millersville, MD February 2013 to September 2014 ·  Monitor Service Desk for tickets assigned to the queue and process first-in first-out based on priority.   ·  Analyze network traffic to resolve connectivity issues. Assign users and computers to proper groups in Active Directory.   ·  Troubleshoot Corporate applications with the use of a Knowledge Base and assign issues to the appropriate support group.  · Proposed plan and executed migration from Windows 2003 to Windows 2012, · increasing security, scalability, and efficiency.  · Monitored and updated user groups and permissions, using Active Directory Systems Securities Intern Advanced Computer and Network Concepts - Baltimore, MD December 2012 to January 2013 ·  Evaluate and recommend new and emerging security products and technologies.  ·  Identify security issues and risks, and develop mitigation plans. Develop and interpret security policies and procedures.  ·  Experience with the application of threat modeling or other risk identification techniques.  ·  Participate in tier 1, and 2 security, help desk environment maintenance and operations support. Geek Squad / Connected Sales Supervisor Best Buy - Owings Mills, MD June 2007 to January 2013 ·  Provide first-level contact and problem resolution for all customers with hardware, software and applications problems  ·  Provided educational experience with Technology Support. Mentor and supervise new employees  ·  Install and Support Microsoft and Apple products; Troubleshoot Windows and Apple OS.  ·  Provide technical user support, online troubleshooting and problem solving. Education Associate of Applied Science in Applied Science Community College of Baltimore County June 2011 Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science Moscow National University September 1997 to June 2000 Skills Ms sharepoint, Sharepoint, Visual studio, Sql, Problem solver, Excel, Ms excel, Ms outlook, Outlook, Ms word, Word, Active Directory, training, Microsoft Office, HTML Additional Information Skills    * Logic and reasoning    * Critical thinking    * Analyze user requirements    * Analyze business needs    * Problem solver    * Communication is the key    * Prevent mistakes    * Learn and study to expand knowledge    Software    MS Windows Server and Components    ?????    Very Good    MS SQL Studio    ?????    Very Good    MS Excel    ?????    Very Good    MS Word    Excellent    SalesForce    ?????    Very Good    MS Outlook    ?????    Very Good    Visual Studio    ?????    Good    MS Sharepoint    ?????    Very Good