Network Administrator Network <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Solutions Architect Kingston, NY "  " CISCO-certified Network Engineer with over 10 years' hands-on experience designing,  implementing, and supporting sophisticated telecommunications networks of small to large  enterprises. Understands the complex communication needs of today's businesses for LAN, MAN,  WAN and GAN networks that provide secure and continuous connectivity over public and private  domains, and which have sufficient capacity, security, speed and built-in redundancies at the most  cost-effective price. Approaches each project with these customer requirements in mind, making  intelligent choices and concessions without comprising network quality.    Re-certified in Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) for Routing and Switching - equipped to  install, configure, operate and troubleshoot medium-sized routed and switched networks. Certified  as of September 30, 2013.  - Spearheaded set-up of Wireless Coverage for the entire Sabina Park (Cricket) to include all stands  and the perimeter. This outside wireless allow real time streaming to respective networks around the  world - June 2013.  - Was instrumental in the setup of Multipoint and Point-to-Point Video Conferencing for LIME in 2004  to include all 13 Business Units and Headquarters in Miami to facilitate meetings, training and HR  interviews using Polycom Equipment.  - Designed and quoted Apex Medical a Wide Area Network solution and AVAYA PBX which facilities  Doctors to access patients records from any Apex location.  - Designed and expanded LIME's network to facilitate LIME's Annual Horizon Technology Show at  the Arena to provide and display VoIP solutions using Nortel BCM400 and BCM200 PBXs.    Lot D20, St. Vincent Boulevard  Caribbean Estates • St. Catherine  CURRICULUM Mobile: +1 (876) 997-0705  +1 (876) 592-1113 1  Jamaica VITAE Email: sportscar2006@yahoo.com  DELROY SPENCER  LAN/WAN Network Engineer  EMPLOYMENT HISTORY  • LIME Jamaica 2004 - Present  Sales Engineering Manager    Reports directly to the Head of Pre-Sales Engineering with responsibility to assist LIME's  enterprise, corporate and SME Account Managers with interpreting customer solutions needs,  designing required network solutions, presenting and pricing network proposals, and guiding the  activities of other engineers and implementers in delivering the LAN & WAN solutions to enterprise  customers. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Network Administrator Cable & Wireless Jamaica 2001 to 2002 Cross-trained from a data communications technician to become a network administrator with responsibility for administering Ethernet, ATM, PPP and Frame Networks to facilitate the provision of Internet service to customers.    Selected Accomplishment:  - Nominated by supervisor to be the first technician trained to join the newly created Internet  Support Department which was formed to provide better Dial-up and DSL Internet user support to internal and external customers. Data Communications Technician Cable & Wireless Jamaica 1994 to 2001 Installed and maintained ISDN, Frame Relay, Leased Line and T1 circuits as well as maintained all  types of data circuits and telex machines.    Selected Accomplishment:  - Configured CISCO 800 series routes to enable Internet Access for Kiosk Vending Machines. Network Systems Operator NCB Development/Computer Centre 1990 to 1993 Data Control Clerk | Clerical Officer    Accelerated career from a Clerical officer in the Computer Centre to Network Systems Operator at the Development Centre. Was responsible for monitoring switching network to ensure 100%  availability.    Selected Accomplishment:  - Demonstrated adept computer skills and was the first clerical officer to be promoted to the Credit  Card centre/switch to become a network systems operator.    Lot D20, St. Vincent Boulevard  Caribbean Estates • St. Catherine  CURRICULUM Mobile: +1 (876) 997-0705  +1 (876) 632-3642  Jamaica VITAE Email: sportscar2006@yahoo.com  DELROY SPENCER  LAN/WAN Network Engineer Education B.A. in Computer & Management Studies University of Technology 1999 Diploma in Computer Studies College of Arts Additional Information BUSINESS SKILLS  " Deep understanding of multiple telecoms infrastructure including copper, optical and microwave  technologies.  " In depth knowledge of network interconnection devices (routers, bridges and switches) as well as  TCP/IP protocol and level 2 and 3 layer technologies to install, configure, and troubleshoot for  effective site-to-site communication.  " Expert-level network design experience designing, integrating, installing and troubleshooting global  enterprise networks.  " Familiar with pricing complex state-of-the-art LAN/WAN telecoms networks combining traditional  voice, VoIP and data protocol formats and algorithms.  " Proven analytical skills in interpreting network performance reports, including configured devices  E  performance, system up-time and usage, and resource consumption to provide guidance for  decision-making.  " Ability to present and explain complex technical matters and to project plan large scale enterprise  networks.