Senior Systems Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Senior Systems Engineer Las Flores, CA Work Experience Senior Systems Engineer TechSpace, Inc - Aliso Viejo, CA 2010 to Present • Administration of an extensive Cisco-based data and voice network servicing a nationwide collection of office campuses and an in-house data center, totaling a service area of over 200,000sf. Responsible for the day-to-day health and reliability of the network and each campus.  • Optimized workflows to accelerate turnaround time by up to 80%.   • Manage and oversee remote campus personnel to coordinate and execute on service activations. Direct personnel on technical changes, providing mentoring and support to foster growth and personal confidence.  • Act as IT point-of-contact for sales discussions with prospects, identifying solutions and answering questions to close deals.  • Extensive experience with fundamental LAN administration (802.1q, VTP, STP, etc). Familiarity with IPsec tunneling via Cisco ASAs and administration of WAN circuits.  • Deploy IT infrastructure at new office campuses by designing all elements of the network. Supervise and provide direction to on-site vendors and integrators to ensure deliverables are on time and as planned. Thoroughly document all aspects of on-site network in order to effectively manage remotely.   • End-to-end administration of a Cisco Unified Communications Manager (CallManager) phone system. Customize phone behavior with call queues, overflow routing, did-not-answer routing, ACDs and IVRs, etc.  • Manage and maintain Cisco wireless networks at each site. Adapt configurations to accommodate unique environmental challenges and ensure the best possible wireless performance. Work with Cisco engineers to ensure wireless networks remain in line with evolving best practices.  • Produced training handbooks, technical reference documentation and onboarding material for both internal and client-facing purposes. Technology Administrator TechSpace, Inc - Aliso Viejo, CA 2005 to 2010 • Address all desktop support requests received from clients including spyware/malware removal, software/hardware installation and general troubleshooting.  • Manage data center sales and transitions. Determine client needs, provide facility tours, negotiate billing, draft contracts and propos- als, create/manage internal service request, coordinate move-ins.  • Manage physical data center space. Prepare racks/cabinets for incoming clients, clean vacated racks, assist with server installation as necessary.  • Coordinate and manage suite transitions. Lead Transitions meetings to determine client needs, create and maintain service requests, last-minute changes and maps in Microsoft Visio for internal use.  • Manage front-end phone infrastructure (then-Avaya environment). Sales Associate RadioShack Corporation - Haleiwa, HI 2004 to 2004 • Helped customers find desired products, offered technical advice, stocked shelves, smiled.  • Achieved RadioShack certifications in networking, electrical components and home theater. Assistant Shipping Coordinator Victoria Skimboards - Laguna Beach, CA 2001 to 2001 • Processed current orders for shipping ensuring complete and prompt service.  • Coordinated with shipping vendors to provide the best possible delivery of the customer's merchandise.  • Tracked and reported on skimboard production on a case-by-case basis Education Computer Information Management Brigham Young University - Laie, HI 2000 to 2002 Saddleback College - Mission Viejo, CA Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP)