DevOps Configuration Specialist/ System Administrator DevOps Configuration Specialist/<span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> DevOps Configuration Specialist/ System Administrator Alexandria, VA Work Experience DevOps Configuration Specialist/ System Administrator Library of Congress - Washington, DC May 2019 to July 2019 Administering AD accounts and permissions.  ? Assisting in Writing powershell scripts to automate a variety of tasks dependent on the needs of the client.  ? Using SCCM to build machines and reconfigure machines.  ? Help team with handling tickets and customer issues across All major library buildings.  ? Coordinating with developers on needs to help with automated code builds and testing.  ? Writing and Pushing scripts for configuration of windows and Linux based systems.  ? Using Powershell to package, install, upgrade and patch applications.  ? Oversee OSX Systems and integrate with Active Directory and package software using Casper and jamf. Produce images and scripts for special configurations for OSX machines for Macintosh based software.  ? Track and Manage Assests using IBM Tririga and FAME.  ? Use SCCM to push, patch and rollback software for all windows and linux based systems.  ? Manage MDM using MaaS 360 and Cisco MDM management tools and consoles.  ? Using Python/Ansible to complete Linux based build for developers and for networking team installing monitoring software and networking configuration tools and IDE and specialized programming software for development teams on sites and remote.  ? Occasionally Assist Development Team with Front End or Back end issues or tickets with JIRA/Confluence.  ? Assist with Back End Full stack issues.(Python and PHP based language.) Jr. DevOps Configuration Specialist/Jr. System Administrator Library of Congress - Washington, DC March 2019 to May 2019 Administering AD accounts and permissions.  ? Assisting in Writing powershell scripts to automate a variety of tasks dependant on the needs of the client.  ? Using SCCM to build machines and reconfigure machines.  ? Help team with handling tickets and customer issues across All major library buildings.  ? Coordinating with developers on needs to help with automated code builds and testing.  ? Writing and Pushing scripts for configuration of windows and Linux based systems.  ? Using Python/Ansible to complete Linux based build for developers and for networking team installing monitoring software and networking configuration tools and IDE and specialized programming software for development teams on sites and remote. Configurations Technician/Tier 2 Support Library of Congress - Washington, DC December 2018 to March 2019 Administering AD accounts and permissions.  ? Troubleshooting and configuring networking equipment for desktop machines..  ? Using SCCM to build machines and reconfigure machines.  ? Help team with handling tickets and customer issues across All major library buildings.  ? Writing Standard Operating Procedures for systems and procedures. Tier 2 Desktop Support Technician(Contract) FASEB - Bethesda, MD June 2018 to December 2018 Administering AD accounts and permissions.  ? Troubleshooting and configuring networking equipment.  ? Subnetting routers to bring up network resources and maintain uptime for employees accessing these resources.  ? Troubleshoot servers and services managed by in house virtualizer server.  ? Help team with handling tickets and customer issues across 4 different sites. Jr System Administrator(Contract) Evidence Action - Washington, DC January 2018 to April 2018 Configured AD and GApps for the organization to onboard and offboard employees  ? Moved remaining infrastructure to AWS and decommissioned old physical hardware on-site  ? Built file servers with managed and scheduled backups including snapshots of vital infrastructure systems.  ? Configured network monitoring with Cloudwatch to notify when resources are reaching a threshold and to add more resources when necessary.  ? Configuring Amazon SES to be used with Organization's Domains to be used internally and externally.  ? Handle support tickets when requested. Game Systems Technician Dave & Busters - Capital Heights, TN May 2016 to October 2017 Silver Spring, MD Springfield, VA    ? Install, repair and service game and credit machines and manage embedded systems with in house systems to generate reports on usage, credits inputted, compensations and other metrics  ? Build and install new system components and game cabinets and installed appropriate systems for game systems to run efficiently using Linux, Windows or both to control games and minimize downtime.  ? Run weekly tests on game and credit systems, troubleshoot and resolve all issues with in-house systems to return metrics and all leased address on all embedded systems.  ? Manage and resolve tickets of daily game and credit issues as well as any networking issues that may occur while on site.  ? Assist with customer relations and issues upon request  ? Assist with networking equipment configuration when installing special games or making changing to current configurations or adding in new equipment and servers when necessary. Education University of D.C. - Washington, DC August 2016 Computer Science Prince George's Community College - Largo, MD August 2014 Skills Aws (Less than 1 year), backups (Less than 1 year), Cms (Less than 1 year), Content management (Less than 1 year), Content management system (Less than 1 year), Content management systems (Less than 1 year), Django (Less than 1 year), Linux (1 year), network monitoring (Less than 1 year), Python (Less than 1 year), System Administrator, SCCM, System Admin, Vmware, Linux Administrator, Active Directory