Wintel Systems Administrator Wintel <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Wintel Systems Administrator - JP Morgan Chase Coatesville, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Wintel Systems Administrator JP Morgan Chase - Jersey City, NJ February 2016 to April 2019 * Coordinate weekly projects for data center consolidation effort.  * Troubleshoot any system errors detected and coordinate with support teams for resolution.  * Create documentation for training of new personnel.  * Provide technical assistance to junior administrators and other support teams as needed.  * Assist in additional projects as needed.  * Review current processes and recommend/implement procedures to increase efficiency and accuracy. Client Support Upgrade Engineer Blackboard Inc - Phoenix, AZ April 2015 to August 2015 * Coordinate with client to establish a date and time to perform application upgrade.  * Perform preliminary testing and documentation of clients' current environment to ensure that upgrade could be performed with minimal disruption.  * Perform application upgrade and testing to ensure that all components are functioning as designed.  * Promptly advise customer of any changes, such as software version, additional requirements and potential software bugs. Senior Systems Administrator & Infrastructure Technical Support MARICOPA COUNTY - Phoenix, AZ 2012 to 2014 * Oversee and manage daily operations of network including primarily Windows 2003/2008 servers by installing Windows 200x operating systems on approximately 750 servers, and maintaining Active Directory accounts, groups, group policies, server based shared directories and user permissions.  * Deliver around-the-clock support by monitoring hardware and software performance, troubleshooting network connectivity and hardware issues for all attached devices, and assisting Help Desk and PC/LAN Technicians with level 2/3 support calls and issues.  * Aid in backup processes by scheduling backups, restoring files and directories, and maintaining off site inventory and rotation of tapes for disaster recovery.  * Ensure hardware and software maintenance by consulting with outside contracted vendors for additional support, monitoring monthly OS upgrades/patches, and performing repairs when needed.  * Supported installation and maintenance of various line-of-business applications and client server applications by utilizing Active Directory or other automation techniques and services and collaborating with other groups and staff.  * Instrumental in daily operations, monitoring and maintenance of various server class software and hardware configurations including servers, clusters, load balanced applications, and networked printers.  * Conducted data management by migrating over 400 terabytes of data from old HP EVA and XP storage systems to the newer 3PAR storage system. Technical Support Representative UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX - Phoenix, AZ 2011 to 2012 Supported students and faculty members by providing technical assistance relating to Microsoft and Apple operating systems, installation of software applications and hardware components, and student/faculty portal navigation. Systems Administrator & Infrastructure Technical Support Maricopa County - Phoenix, AZ 2002 to 2009 * Contributed to business operations by installing and configuring Windows 200x operating systems on fleet of approximately 450 servers comprised primarily of HP and Dell hardware.  * Ensured 24/7 availability by monitoring hardware and software performance - conducting upgrades and repairs as needed.  * Maintained systems proficiency by reviewing, scheduling and monitoring monthly OS upgrades and patches, including data backups and restores when necessary.  * Aided in equipment maintenance by installing new servers in racks along with network and fiber cabling as needed. Systems Programmer ARIZONA DEPT. OF TRANSPORTATION - Phoenix, AZ 1988 to 2000 * Contributed to systems operations by installing and configuring MVS operating systems in a multi-CPU environment.  * Ensured system performance by monitoring activity for potential bottlenecks, taking necessary action to resolve problems, performing firmware upgrades and providing support and documentation to system operators and end users. Systems Programmer UNITED STATES AIR FORCE 1979 to 1988 Education Diploma St. Clair High School - Saint Clair, MI Skills System Administrator (10+ years), Vmware (3 years), System Admin, Storage (7 years), Microsoft Server (10+ years), System Troubleshooting (10+ years) Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: E5 October 1979 to April 1988 Mainframe Operator and Systems Programmer