Level 3 Deskside Support Specialist Level 3 Deskside Support Specialist Level 3 Deskside Support Specialist - GETRONICS Kalamazoo, MI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Level 3 Deskside Support Specialist GETRONICS - Portage, MI August 2017 to Present Provide onsite and remote technology support for all Divisions of Stryker in the Kalamazoo/Portage area as well as a recently acquired Division in Durham, NC. Address the  onsite technology needs of the users from the manufacturing team to White Glove  Executives. Ability to handle high-stress situations involving problem diagnosis and client  relationship management. I currently sit at a Division with 70+ onsite users as well as 200+  Sales representatives and managers throughout the United States.  This position requires the ability to handle a variety of tasks from basic hardware support to Active Directory and Office 365 Administration in an efficient, accurate manner within  deadlines. I have strong customer service skills - as well as the ability to communicate  professionally with a sense of urgency and empathy to the affected user. We use the Service  Now ticketing system to document and track all processes and actions taken in a clear and concise manner. I have the ability to quickly learn and acquire expertise in client's custom  applications. I possess an excellent understanding of technology and the role of the "client"  in relation to the larger IT infrastructure. I am a team player who is invested in and strives to maximize team/department performance. Systems Administrator CONGREGATION OF ST. JOSEPH - Kalamazoo, MI January 2005 to August 2016 While based in Kalamazoo, I also worked at locations in 7 states, travelling on a regular basis.  Provide Windows administration, network operating center administration, LAN/WAN administration, and intrusion detection and prevention monitoring. Also manage FTP servers, AD/DNS, wireless access points.    The Congregation of St. Joseph is a community of Catholic Sisters. In my time with them I have had to learn and adapt my skills to adjust to the needs of an aging population. Training users over the age of 80 is very different than  training someone in their 40s. I have trained for many years with an elder population. I have created trainings for general computer use, email, printers, tablets, cell phones, Skype and any other needs they might have. This would  include book reading machines for those with visual challenges, adjusting phones for those with hearing issues, etc.    Key Contributions:  ? Implemented (from scratch) computer network, email communication system and wireless networks.  ? Deployed computers and hardware throughout the state of Michigan. Implemented Remote Help Desk System.  ? Researched, recommended and implemented Polycom Video Conferencing system at multiple locations in 7  states.  ? Implemented backup for critical systems.  ? Trained employees and Sisters across multiple departments on network operations including log-in procedures,  network management software, permissions, printing issues, security and use of software.  ? Managed telephone and voicemail systems.  ? Researched and advised on purchase of wireless nurse call system for Assisted Living. Technology Assistant WAYLAND UNION SCHOOLS - Wayland, MI 2000 to 2005 Supported all Administrators, Staff and Students in 5 Elementary buildings. Handled all classroom technology as well as Media Centers, Staff trainings, etc. Imaged and deployed computers. Entered all new students into Active  Directory, etc. Education None in Computer Science Davenport University - Grand Rapids, MI Skills Customer Support, Desktop Support, Help Desk, Direct Support, Customer Service Additional Information HIGHLIGHTS OF IT SKILLS    ? LAN/WAN Administration ? Technical Support ? Patches & Updates  ? Project Management ? Systems Installation, ? Training & Mentoring  ? Workflow Planning Configuration & Upgrading ? IP Telephony Support  ? Productivity Improvement ? Security Solutions ? Remote Desktop Support  ? Skilled in training for an Aging ? Level 2 & 3 Deskside Support ? Equipment imaging and  Population deployment