Server Infrastructure Technician Server Infrastructure Technician Ankeny, IA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Server Infrastructure Technician BerganKDV - Johnston, IA August 2015 to Present Partner with SMB business owners to provide robust technology solutions to support their business and increase efficiencies, driving down costs while keeping the highest service levels.  Manage large and small projects involving new customer implementations or upgrade processes.  Troubleshoot complex hardware and software infrastructure services to include Windows Server 2003-2016, Exchange 07-16, O365, Datto, Veeam, SSL certificates, IIS and others.  Build configure and manage ESXi 5.1-6.7 infrastructures  Build new virtual machines using ESXi 5.1-6.7 for a variety of Windows/Linux and appliance based templates and image.  Troubleshoot complex backup systems to include Veeam, Datto, Backup Exec and other cloud based solutions.  Manage and service ticket loads using ConnectWise Manage ticketing system  VCSA and vCenter server installation and configuration/management  Administer, Manage, and maintain the corporate implementation of the IT Glue document management system.   Critical thinking skills with high integrity and moral work ethic.  Ability to manage project scope and deadlines  Well versed in ITIL 3 and Traction methodologies. Sr. Systems Engineer General Dynamics Information Technology - West Des Moines, IA November 2013 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  1. User account management in AD and Exchange  2. VMware ESX 4x-6.0 management  3. Build out various physical and virtual Windows 2008R2-2012R2 and RHEL operating systems.  4. Build and maintain a Horizon View environment, building, provisioning various pools, vms and storage components.  5.Coordinate and work close with remote site administrators in troubleshooting, providing solutions and remediation issues with onsite DC and FP servers.  6. Coordinate and maintain remote site DR configurations, policies and DR planning.  7. Perform project work as required for direct and external business units.  8. Work level 3 cases through BMC Remedy  9. Other duties and projects as required.    Accomplishments:  I've been a successful technology administrator for large and small enterprises, managing resources, expenditures and projects while driving technical culture, timelines and budgeting.    I've successfully lead multiple major application projects to include Lync 2013, VMWare ESXi, VSphere, Oracle VM, Symantec SEP, Symantec Backup Exec and many others.    I've successfully passed the ITIL3 Foundations certification which has considerably expanded my business efficiency and my ability to drive down costs through innovative solutions with a keen understanding of streamlined business models.    Implemented a very large JIVE SBS environment serving over 50,000 internal and external business customers.     I've completed many projects on time and budget, driving down costs while maintaining efficiency through the implementation of sound business and technological best practices. Senior IS Analyst/ Systems Administrator Allscripts - Raleigh, NC September 2003 to August 2013 Built and deployed a variety of operating systems using VSphere 4-5.1, Lab Manager, VM Converter, Oracle VM Server, and Oracle VM Manager.   ? Designed and deployed VMs from custom templates, ISO files, and P2V processes.   ? Maintained the corporate networking infrastructure to include DHCP, DNS, WINS, TCP/IP, DMZ, IPAM, Proteus/Adonis, F5, and Windows and Linux firewalls.   ? Deployed, configured, and managed various operating systems to include Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Cent-OS, Ubuntu, Windows XP, Windows 7, Windows Server 2003R2, Windows 2008R2, and Windows 2012.   ? Managed and maintained the corporate FTP environment using a variety of software and protocols to include FTP, FTPS, SFTP, and MFT.   ? Managed and maintained relationships with external technology business partners to drive internal IT initiatives.   ? Configured hardware, peripherals, services, settings, directories, users, and storage to align with corporate standards and requirements.   ? Maintained the corporate printing infrastructure consisting of HP and Lexmark devices. Systems Administrator Jacobson Group - Des Moines, IA July 2000 to September 2003 Deployed, configured, and maintained all corporate hardware to include servers, desktop, and laptop computers, printers, terminals, faxing, scanning hardware, and phone systems.   Managed the Nortel analog phone system to include setting up new users, troubleshooting existing users, and configuring call routing and ACD groups.   Designed, deployed, and maintained the technical support infrastructure to include incident reporting and case management.   Designed, deployed, and maintained WYSE and Wintel thin clients running on Citrix MetaFrame 1.8.   Designed, deployed, and maintained the RFID network at multiple locations.   Supported the Digital Unix operating system that ran the RDBMS inventory software to include problem resolution, root cause analysis, patching, and updating as required.   Maintained all printers within the organization using the Web JetAdmin software. Education Certification in Electrical and Mechanical Engineering DMACC - Ankeny, IA 1998 to 1999 Skills Technical administration skill set in Linux and Windows Server, VMWare ESXi 4.1-6.5. Solid working knowledge of networking, protocols, and services in both Linux and Windows environments. VSphere, Esxi, VM Converter, Hyper-V, VSAN, vCenter Log Insight, vSphere Data Protection, SRM, vCops, Horizon View, ThinApp and Oracle VM Server/Oracle VM Manager 3.0 JIVE SBS, Keystone, Jira, NETIQ, Apache, Sendmail, Postfix, ClamAV, SpamAssassin, Serv-U, Gene6, CoreFTP, Microsoft Office, SharePoint, Goldmine, QuickBooks, Quotewerks, Putty, MSSQL, IIS, WhatsUP Gold, IBM Director (Windows/Linux), Mpower, ArcServe, Symantec Backup Exec 2010-2014,Symantec Endpoint Protection, Symantec Altiris, BASH, Hylafax, BlueCat Adonis/Proteus, BMC Remedy, HP UFT, Dell OpenManage Essentials, Dell Repository Manager, FreeNas, McAfee Ironmail,, IBM Sterling Direct Connect, Lyris List Manager, Veeam, Datto, Maxmail and many others (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses ITIL v3 Foundations February 2010 to Present ITIL v3 Foundations is the IT service management (ITSM) platform that focuses on aligning IT services with the needs of business. ITIL is published as a series of five core volumes, each of which covers a different ITSM lifecycle stage. Volumes include:     The Five Volumes :  ITIL Service Strategy: understands organizational objectives and customer needs.  ITIL Service Design: turns the service strategy into a plan for delivering the business objectives.  ITIL Service Transition: develops and improves capabilities for introducing new services into supported environments.  ITIL Service Operation: manages services in supported environments.  ITIL Continual Service Improvement: achieves services incremental and large-scale improvements. A+ June 2001 A+ was the first certification I obtained which focused on all things hardware. Over time, I've simply kept up with the hardware changes in the industry and may consider updating it at some point. Dell Technician April 2015 to Present I have obtained certifications in the following Dell product line up. Desktop, Laptop, Server and PowerVault. Additional Information Applications List: Veeam Backup and Replication, Exchange, Office 365, Connectwise, Webroot, LabTech,JIVE SBS, Keystone, Jira, NETIQ, Apache, Sendmail, Postfix, ClamAV, SpamAssassin, Serv-U, Gene6, CoreFTP, Microsoft Office, SharePoint, Goldmine, QuickBooks, Quotewerks, Putty, MSSQL, IIS, WhatsUP Gold, IBM Director (Windows/Linux), Mpower, ArcServe, Symantec Backup Exec 2010-2014,Symantec Endpoint Protection, Symantec Altiris, BASH, Hylafax, BlueCat Adonis/Proteus, BMC Remedy, HP UFT, Dell OpenManage Essentials, Dell Repository Manager, FreeNas, McAfee Ironmail, Exchange 2007-2016, SCCM 2007-2012, IBM Sterling Direct Connect, Lyris List Manager, Lync/Skype 2013, UCC SSL certificates