Office Administrator Office <span class="hl">Administrator</span> South Amboy, NJ • More than 15 years of successful experience in customer service and support with recognized strengths in account maintenance, problem solving and trouble-shooting, sales staff support, and planning/implementing proactive procedures and systems to avoid problems.  • Possess solid computer skills  • Excellent working knowledge using both IBM and Windows system;  • AS/400 Program, Microsoft Excel, WordPerfect, Microsoft Word, and Microsoft Outlook.  • Ability to train, motivate, and supervise customer service employees.  • Process payroll, and maintain/update accurate inventories. Work Experience Office Administrator Kenan Advantage Group 2012 to Present management of drivers.  • Communication between drivers and corporate.  • TMW office software  • Tracking and location of equipment (Trailers, tractors etc.) on Omni tracks  • Handle all shipping/receiving of company documents.  • Oversee freight paperwork daily.  • Manage Drivers Logs & H.O.S through Qualcomm Units Courier Systems Bayonne, NJ 2006 to 2010 • Work sales professionals covering 2 states (FL and TN) responsible for more than 50 individual and corporate accounts.  • Opening new accounts and upgrading existing service.  • Quickly and effectively solve customer challenges.  • Scheduling deliveries and pick-ups  • All billing and invoicing.  • Maintaining all inventory and manifests.  • Payroll records for employees.  • Assisted drivers, and pier and dock workers  • Maintain quality control/satisfaction records, constantly seeking new ways to improve customer service. Post-delivery customer service Workbench Holdings LLC - Bayonne, NJ 1994 to 2004 • Delivery follow-up and problem resolution.  • Dailey driver check-in and tracking.  • Scheduled deliveries and service planner.  • Filing, date entry, faxing and scanning.  • Responsible for end-of-the-day reporting to managers. American Greetings 1989 to 1993 • New store set-up.  • Promotional set-ups.  • Client credit processing.  • Merchandise order placement.  • Client relations. Education Business The Betty Owen School - Jersey City, NJ Bayonne High School - Bayonne, NJ College Prep Program Skills Office Admin, Quickbooks, Front Office, Front Desk