COMMERCE ADMINISTRATOR COMMERCE <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> COMMERCE ADMINISTRATOR Work Experience COMMERCE ADMINISTRATOR MIDDLE LEVEL MANAGEMENT 2018 to 2018 2018  ADMINISTRATION:    ? Planned, organized, and administered the activities of office efficiently.  ? Recommended the organizational structure and staffing that complemented his/her area of responsibility  ? Established and maintained an organizational climate that encourages the development, retention, and a high level of morale among personnel.  ? Kept his/her immediate supervisor informed of activities of the unit, particularly of major or unusual developments, and seeking his/her area of responsibility.  ? Promoted an integrated effort in the administration of the college by cooperating with other staff and coordinating his/her activities with theirs when such action is indicated  ? Maintained effective relations with faculty, students, and community and to interpret college policies and programs accurately and constructively  ? Recommended the budget for office, accounts, teaching staff and non-teaching staff department, and, within limitations established by the board, to administer the budget  ? Represented PU college of commerce and attended professional meetings as authorized by my immediate supervisor  ? Provided information and reports to the board as and when required  ? Implemented a plan to supervise students attending classes, exams, tests during the day  ? Monitored students attendance, called up parents for student's feedback regarding monthly tests, exams, attendance and behaviour  ? Performed any other duties assigned or delegated by my immediate supervisor DIGITAL INTERACTIVE EXECUTIVE INDIA PVT LTD - Hyderabad, Telangana 2015 to 2016 RETAIL BANKING CHAT PROCESS-CITIBANK    ? Assisted customers or clients with the product information, providing resolutions on skill sets-Contact us, Citibank online (CBOL) navigation, Account registration, Account login problems, Credit Card online navigation, Bill pay, Link accounts, Transfer chats, Deposits, Account registration and Password reset.  ? Maintained order and calm in a fast-faced environment by offering compassionate, kind, and light-hearted customer support  ? Retained 90% of the accounts by timely and friendly follow up with selling opportunities on live chat  ? Increased customer satisfaction by developing easy-to-scan fact sheets on popular products  ? Mentored, trained Advisors, assisted Team Leader and Manager in daily Performance Management Systems(PMS) Reports, provided feedback to HR when asked by HRM during Annual appraisal of Sub-ordinates, Counselled Sub-ordinates(if required) to improve their work.    ? Gave safety improvement idea-use of metal detector scanners before the security entry gate for safety of employees    Trainings: Communication skills, US culture, US English and Citibank products trainings, Live Person Chat Portal, Chat skills, MS Office, Outlook Express PROCESS ASSOCIATE GENPACT INDIA PVT LTD, HABSIGUDA - Hyderabad, Telangana 2012 to 2014 INVOICE PROCESSING (ACCOUNTS PAYABLE)-HUMAN GENOME SCIENCES & GENERAL LEDGER-BRAMBLES    ? Processed Invoices in workflow/ ERP as per customer policies and guidelines  ? Validated key fields from scanned documents.  ? Ran uploads for electronic invoices  ? Understood customer policies and adapted in my work activities  ? Resolved the exceptions while processing and post processing  ? Trained a New Associate on processing the AP Invoices for Human Genome Sciences Process  ? Answered payment related queries of customers via E-mail or telephone    Trainings:  ? Integrity, Information security, data privacy, principles of accounting, US and UK English, anti-corrupt practices and communication skill training, General ledger, E-Reconciliation, corporate ethics, essentials of OJT and GSK technical  ? MS Office (Version-2010 and 2007)-MS Word, MS Excel, Webmail, SAP (Version-6.0)-FICO-AP and JD Edwards Enterprise One (Oracle based) QUALITY AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS EXECUTIVE PULSE PHARMACEUTICALS PVT LTD - Hyderabad, Telangana 2011 to 2012 QMS    ? Accounts: Audited transactions of cash book, bank book, Journal register, Journal Proper register  ? Distribution: Verification of Bank Reconciliation Statement, -Physical verification of Stock, stock ledgers-AP depot, Head office, etc.  ? Customer Relationship Management-verification of advances  ? Marketing and Admin-verification of corporate travelling expenses, etc  Human Resource Department-verification of Joining formalities, statutory compliances, final Settlements to ensure whether standard operating systems are followed in all departments to ensure compliances, report deviations to take corrective action to link individual goals with organizational goals.    Trainings:  ? MS Word, MS Excel, Webmail and Peaceful ACcounTing (PACT), process trainings. AUDIT ASSISTANT VEERANNA G MANTGOL & Co - Gulbarga, Karnataka 2011 to 2011 2011  EXTERNAL AUDIT:    ? audited and Co-operated Auditor in various audit locations, audited various educational institutions, hospitals, etc  ? executed audit assistant functions to check the accuracy of accounting systems and procedures  ? reviewed, assessed and recommended changes in accounting systems  ? verified and reconciled bank deposits and payments  ? inspected, tested and assessed software and hardware for its failure  ? checked all accounting and client's database are updated and functioning properly  ? studied and assessed balance sheets and other related financial statements and records  ? reviewed and recommended changes in internal audit controls ACCOUNTS EXECUTIVE ASSOCIATED CEMENTS LTD, CEMENT MANUFACTURING UNIT - Wadi, Karnataka 2009 to 2010 ACCOUNTS PAYABLE    ? assembled, reviewed, verified invoices and check requests  ? flagged and clarified any unusual or questionable invoice items or prices  ? sorted, coded and matched invoices  ? set invoices up for payment  ? processed invoices in workflow into system  ? tracked expenses and processed expense reports  ? prepared and performed check runs  ? posted transactions to journals, ledgers and other records  ? reconciled accounts payable transactions  ? prepared analysis of accounts  ? monitored accounts to ensure payments are up to date  ? researched and resolved invoice discrepancies and issues  ? maintained vendor files  ? corresponded with vendors and responded to inquiries  ? produced monthly reports  ? assisted with month end closing  ? provided supporting documentation for audits  ? maintained accurate historical records  ? maintained confidentiality of organizational information    Trainings:  ? MS Word, MS Excel, MS Power-point, SAP-FICO-AP    GURUKUL INDEPENDENT PUC-COMMERCE (GIPUC), STATION BAZAAR, KALABURAGI Education B.Com S.B.College of Commerce - Gulbarga, Karnataka 2004 S.S.L.C in Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Saint Ambrose Convent High School 1998 Institute of Cost and Works Accountants of India (ICWAI) - Hyderabad, Telangana Education Vijaya Vidyalaya College - Gulbarga, Karnataka Skills Ms office, Accounting, Financial statements, Internal audit, Accounts payable