Clinic Administrator Clinic <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Clinic Administrator - Fairview Primary Care Service Line Eagan, MN Work Experience Clinic Administrator Fairview Primary Care Service Line May 2015 to Present Fairview Clinics - Burnsville    ? People Leadership: Accountable for creating an effective dyad leadership team that builds a strong culture of engagement and performance excellence. Implemented Daily Engagement System. Employee Engagement Scores on an upward trend.    ? Business Leadership: Ensures effective and proactive management of clinic operations. Develops and implements programs, processes, and best practices to optimize patient care and ensure maximum operational efficiency. Successfully implemented Integrative Behavioral Health (Behavioral Health Clinician, Psychiatry NP, and Fairview Counseling Center Therapist) in to Burnsville Primary Care.    ? Strategy: Supports Fairview's mission, vision and values. Collaborates with senior leaders and site leaders bringing in other partners (marketing, business development, etc.) to assure optimal business operating performance is met. Clearly defining and educating staff/providers about FMG performance goals as well as specific Burnsville Clinic goals. Hands-on continuous review of staffing metrics and Minimum Performance Improvements to assure best decision making occurs with the most current information available. Completed the process of becoming a Behavioral Health Home with the MN Department of Human Services.    ? Quality: Drives quality expectations and processes by educating staff and highlighting "why" it is important for our patients and the daily work that we do. Quality Composite Scores: May 2015: 34%, Year End 2015: 47.7%, Year End 2016: 73.1%, Year End 2017: 72.5% Manager, Regulatory Compliance University of Minnesota Medical Center November 2013 to Present Developed and maintained constant survey readiness infrastructure for the hospital and ambulatory clinics.  ? Supported regulatory compliance and accreditation activities for clinical and business operations by providing ongoing evaluation of significant risk and critical importance to external reviewing agencies.  ? Directed the effective implementation of an Integrated Structure wide process to assess the level of compliance to accreditation standards, regulatory requirements and other mandatory regulations.  ? Chair of the Integrated Structure Compliance Committee for the University of Minnesota Medical Center  ? Provided ongoing education regarding regulatory compliance to 8,000 staff at the hospital and ambulatory clinics.  ? Deliver project support and research as necessary to evaluate options and provide recommendations to ensure proper operational compliance and minimize risk to the organization. Director, Behavioral Support Systems University of Minnesota Medical Center June 2005 to November 2013 Behavioral Health Services  University of Minnesota Medical Center, Fairview  ? Project Manager, Credentialed Trainer and electronic medical record (Epic) expert for the planning, design, training and implementation for inpatient units and outpatient programs across the Fairview Health Care System.  ? Provided clinical documentation expectations, education and support to 650+ employees.  ? Project Manager for multi-million dollar remodel and construction projects for nine inpatient Behavioral Health units.  ? Human Resources: learning, development planning and performance management for 53 FTEs (total of 70 employees).  ? Development and maintenance of departmental budgets  ? Behavioral Health Environmental Safety Expert Education Bachelor of Science degree in Information Management The College of St. Scholastica - Duluth, MN Additional Information Highlights of Qualifications    ? Twenty-nine years progressive leadership experience and 33 years in healthcare  ? Professional Mentor with Organizational Development & Learning team  ? Technology: Microsoft Office Products, Sunrise Clinical, Epic