Linux System Administrator Linux <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Linux System Administrator - Timeless Solutions, Inc Hyattsville, MD Work Experience Linux System Administrator Timeless Solutions, Inc - Hyattsville, MD 2018 to Present Regularly inspects system's performance and performs diagnostics and upgrades when needed to ensure system software and hardware components meet the business needs. Performs technical research and development to lead innovation within the infrastructure and system architecture. Creates and maintains users' accounts, profiles security, rights disk space, and performs process monitoring.  • Deploys pre-installation testing for software and hardware tools that ensures proper system installation using kickstart technology for fast mass deployment.  • Installs, configures, and performs tests and upgrades on system files and services.  • Launched Virtualization Infrastructures on VMware Hypervisor to ensure a proper system timing and availability performance.  • Coordinated use of Dell PowerEdge Servers to configure and enable Virtualization to ensure system consolidation and scalability needs.  • Configures Kernel Based Virtual Machines on Red Hat Enterprise Servers.  • Automates routine tasks using shell scripts, cron jobs, and tar utility.  • Performs network packet analysis by using TCP/IP and related protocols, such as TCP, UDP, IP, HTTP, HTTPS, DNS, and FTP.  • Successfully configures LAMP servers to work alongside Drupal.  • Ensures system availability and data protection with security architecture and system protection and hardening, using tools such as iptables, SElinux, and TCP wrappers.  • Builds system uptime by using patches upgrades and updates using tools such as RPM, Yum, and Apt Get.  • Utilizes appropriate techniques of installing applications and systems based on the client's specifications and needs.  • Installs and configures Logical Volume Manager - LVM, builds LAMP stack and configures Apache Virtual Hosts, both name-based and IP-based. Systems Administrator Albany Medical Center - New York, NY 2015 to 2018 Maintained and administered computer networks, as well as related computing environments, such as computer software, systems software applications software, and all other computer configurations as needed by the company. Performed maintenance, diagnosed and performed troubleshooting on hardware, software, or other network and system problems. Replaced defective components as needed.  • Installed, upgraded, troubleshot, tested, tuned, and patched the administration of RHEL.  • Automated duties such as maintenance, system monitoring, and software deployment by editing scripts.  • Professionally maintained servers using patch management and system maintenance.  • Installed, upgraded, and performed troubleshooting on software applications.  • Configured the Kickstart to perform RedHat installation, which ensured that the configuration and server hardening were compatible with security.  • Installed, maintained, and patched RPM & YUM and performed other server management duties.  • Verified correct operations and detected errors by entering commands and observing system functions.  • Configured equipment for employee use, installed and performed repairs as needed to hardware, software, or any other equipment.  • Assisted in research, evaluation, testing, selection, procurement, implementation, and maintenance of new software, hardware, and systems. Skills Apache, Linux, Red hat, Shell scripting, Ftp, Http, Open source, Udp, Active directory, Dns, Nagios, Tcp, nginx, Bash, Scripting, Linux Administrator Certifications/Licenses Red Hat Certified System Administrator March 2019 to March 2022 Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES    • Linux Operating Systems  • Scripting - Bash Shell Scripting  • Web Servers - Apache/HTTP, Nginx  • Protocols - TCP, UDP, IP, HTTP, HTTPS, DNS, FTP  • Certified Red Hat System Administrator  • Nagios - Computer Software for Monitoring  • Ansible - Open source software for Automation  • Active Directory