Senior Linux Systems Engineer Senior Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Senior Linux Systems Engineer - Worthington Industries Powell, OH Dynamic IT professional with a wide range of technical expertise. Maintained high system stability rates on all Linux and Microsoft systems. Successfully implemented and managed Red Hat satellite server, Red Hat 4, 5, 6 and 7, CentOS 5 and 6 and vSphere 4.0. and 5.0 Work Experience Senior Linux Systems Engineer Worthington Industries - Worthington, OH November 2015 to Present • Developed patching schedules for Linux servers  • Installed and built Spacewalk server  • Develop Linux security hardening Standards  • Setup a Corporate Syslog server  • Assisted APP-DEV team in writing startup scripts  • Developed a OEL 5 to OEL 6 or 7 migration plan  • Helped APP-DEV teams Automate a lot of their daily task  • Setup a Puppet and Ansible POCs  • Maintained and administers three NetApp clusters, a Data Ontap select and cloud instance Senior Systems Engineer Bob Evans Farm Inc - New Albany, OH November 2013 to August 2015 • Developed patching schedules for Linux servers  • Installed and built both Spacewalk and Red Hat Satellite servers  • Develop Linux security hardening Standards  • Setup a Corporate Syslog server  • Implemented Red Hat Identity Management with a one way trust to the Window AD Domain  • Architected Linux DR systems, procedures and documentation  • Maintained 244T of NetApp storage and setup DR policies between the Production and DR datacenters  • Setup up a Oracle EBS UAT, TEST, DEV, PREPROD and Production environments encompassing 130+ servers  • Worked with/Mentored Windows Applications admins on Linux terminal usage  • Grew the environment from 18 Linux servers to 140+  • Setup run books for several Linux procedures these run books were written with several different skillset from Help Desk up to Senior Linux Admins  • Setup a Zenoss Core Server for monitor of Linux, Windows and VMware ESXi server Senior Linux Administrator DSW Inc - Columbus, OH September 2013 to November 2013 • Updated various documents to reflect the difference between RHEL 6 and RHEL 5  • Worked with the Development team to create an internal Perl CPAN and setup routine Perl module refresh  • Managed a 750 Server environment Senior Linux Administrator Battelle Memorial Institute - Columbus, OH December 2011 to September 2013 • Developed patching schedules for Linux servers  • Developed Linux security hardening Standards  • Set up PeopleSoft performance, test, dev and production environments encompassing 100+ servers  • Developed a Linux mentoring program for Windows Administrators and Junior Linux Administrators  • Set up HP SIM to deploy firmware and drivers to HP servers  • Designed, implemented and maintained scripts to start/stop WebLogic and PeopleSoft processes  • Implemented Active Directory authentication to 2008 R2 domain using Winbind and Samba3x  • Implemented Red Hat Satellite server 5.5  • Mentor Application Administrators on Linux best security practices and procedures  • Analyzed internal customer needs and then developed, architected and implemented server environments  • Worked with Storage Admins to develop and ensure proper multipathing  • Worked with the DBA team and Oracle Specialists to establish and maintain Oracle RAC and ASM configuration Linux EWS Administrator Honda R & D Americas - Raymond, OH February 2011 to December 2011 • Designed, maintained, tested and deployed CentOS 5.5 and 4.4 images  • Designed, maintained, tested and deployed Windows 7 EWS image  • Switch over NIS authentication to Active Directory authentication for Linux clients  • Implemented HP SIM for hardware firmware patching  • Tested and implemented Kerberos authentication for NFS shares  • Upgraded NetApp filers to 8.02 p1 cluster mode and 7 mode  • Setup Snapvault as DR solution for 3 Separate Netapp environments  • Implement Snapcreator framework, Vibe and OSSV  • Implement firmware patching schedule and policy  • Migrate the VMware environment from ESX 4.0 to ESXi 4.1 and VCenter 4.0 to 4.1  • Setup a 12 node Microsoft HPC  • Setup a 40 node Linux HPC Systems Administrator Safe Auto Insurance - Columbus, OH May 2006 to February 2011 • Administered VMview VDI 4.0 and 4.5 and 35 virtual desktops.  • Upgraded VMware ESX and ESXi 3.5 servers over to VMware vSphere 4.0.  • Set up an isolated VMware ESX 4.0 environment for QA testing.  • Aligned virtual servers to minimize iSCSI timeouts and resets.  • Set up/implemented HP and Dell firmware patching schedule with Dell OpenManager and HP Insight Manager.  • Performed updates and created new policies for clients on Symantec Endpoint Management server.  • Implemented Avaya IQ cluster running RHEL 5.4.  • Administered Linux servers running RHEL 4, 5, 6 and CentOS 5.  • Maintained Voltage Secure email server and implemented a passive/active cluster for the product.  • Set up and implemented a Red Hat Satellite Server and patching schedule for all Linux servers.  • Administrated Citrix Xenapp 6 and Presentation 4.5 server including publishing printers and applications.  • Created pre-deployment checklists and policies for Linux, ESX and ESXi servers.  • Performed operation duties such as Active Directory/Exchange adds, moves and changes.  • Performed software installations for client and server applications running Windows, VMware, ESX, ESXi, Linux and Unix.  • Provided mentoring to the Help Desk and Application Administration staff.  • Migrated and maintained RightFax 9.3 cluster to RightFax 9.4.    Application Administrator  • Maintained User Rights on DB2 and SQL databases.  • Maintained and implemented upgrades on self-hosted Ultipro, Ultipro Backoffice, Ultipro Time and Attendance, and Ultipro Web.  • Set up and maintained RightFax accounts and monthly reporting.  • Implemented user privileges, created Active directory groups and users accounts.  • Audited user Active Directory accounts and DB2 accounts.  • Upgraded and maintained Halogen E360 and eAppraisal.  • SharePoint 2003 Administrator.  • IT Employee of the Month.  • Provided mentoring to the Help Desk staff.  • Supported VPs and Company owner's business and personal PCs.  Help Desk Technician-Level Two    • Created deployment plan and wrote internal support documentation for Windows Vista deployment.  • Performed pre-deployment testing of Vista, including internal software compatibility verification.  • Mentored/Trained Help Desk staff.  • Set up Microsoft deployment server to deploy base OS images.    Help Desk Technician - Level One  • Pre-deployment planning and testing of hard drive encryption products.  • Performed VOIP and digital line troubleshooting.  • Documented several proprietary software applications when developer documentation was missing.  • Created a pre-deployment Checklist and setup a Norton Ghost server for Image deployment.  • Supported AVPs  • Highest average ticket closer.  • Chosen as IT employee of the month twice. Senior Repair Technician The Laptop Guy - Columbus, OH April 2004 to May 2006 • Repaired incoming laptops, PC's and Mac's.  • Assisted clients with technical and operating system issues.  • Configured and installed network topography for three locations.  • Maintained Ethernet and analog phone lines for three locations.  • Used and set up SUSE 9.1 workstation for Technicians and internet Kiosk for customers.  • Set up SOHO router/firewall and Samba file share with SUSE 9.1.  • Developed backup server and data retention policy. Education Burke Institute VOC 2019 Emergency Medical Technician Columbus State Community College - Columbus, OH 1992 Skills Linux, Red hat, Netapp, Ontap, Vmware, Oracle, Windows 2003