Data Systems Administrator Data <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Data Systems Administrator - Marine Corps Air Station Tempe, AZ Work Experience Data Systems Administrator Marine Corps Air Station - Cherry Point, NC January 2018 to July 2019 United States    ? Provided on-site technical support by troubleshooting client's physical layer connectivity by running and tipping Cat 5 cables and configuring access switches and network interface cards.  ? Resolved several hundred-trouble tickets at a tier 2 helpdesk in support of a large-scale enterprise with  1000+ users.  ? Extensive work with Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange, Microsoft Remote Desktop, Windows  Server Update Services, Windows Deployment Services, and Solar Winds Network Performance  Monitor.  ? Efficiently used services to create and develop images for the deployed network.  ? Provided 24/7 Tier 1 and 2 helpdesk support to 500+ users and units as Systems Chief.  ? Worked extensively with Active Directory and Microsoft Exchange, to provide troubleshooting support  to the end user/client.  ? Provided reliable communications in direct support of several combat training exercises.  ? Evaluated and resolved customer information systems problems while utilizing Remedy Ticket system.  ? Transported and managed over 70 pieces of secret/classified material to maintain information security  and integrity.  ? Implemented a Cisco Call manager Server in support of 100+ Cisco Phones.  ? Began training on Nessus Vulnerability Scanners, McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator, and Red Hat Linux  Security Center Servers. Cyber Network Administrator Marine Corps Air Station - Cherry Point, NC June 2016 to December 2017 Worked on a team of over 30 marines supporting operations for several field operations and responsible for of up to 1000+ users at a time.  ? Execute the installation, configuration, and management of data network systems in both stand-alone and client-server environments.  ? Install, configure, and maintain Cisco network devices.  ? Plan and execute the integration of multiple information systems in a network environment.  ? Evaluate and resolve customer information systems problems.  ? Managing layer 1-3 Cisco Networking concepts and configurations, Microsoft Server management, VMware administration, and Microsoft Exchange deployment. Data Systems Administrator Twenty-Nine - Palms, CA July 2017 to September 2017 United States  ? Chosen to be a Systems Administrative expert sent out to lead a team in the assistance of another unit rebuilding its network architecture.  ? Managed 4 marines in rebuilding a Active Directory domain for a large scale combat training exercise including Phones, Exchange, and Web Services.  ? Managed reports to supervisors on day to day progress of the network and help desk trouble tickets. Education High school or equivalent Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, DNS, EXCHANGE, NETWORKING, Vmware, System Administrator, System Admin, System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin, Red Hat Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: Corporal Certifications/Licenses Security+ October 2017 to October 2020 Additional Information Skills and Abilities    ? Cisco IOS and layer 2 and 3 networking protocols, concepts, and implementation.  ? Skilled in VMWare software and hardware along with Microsoft Server 2012R2/2016.  ? Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, WSUS, WDS, File Sharing, VCenter, and Exchange Mail Services.  ? Infrastructure technologies, system-level networks, hardware and software.  ? Capable of researching and analyzing complex technology related documents.  ? Ability to effectively plan, set priorities, and manage complex projects.  ? Will work long hours necessary to complete projects by any deadline.  ? Seasoned troubleshooting professional using out of the box thinking to solve difficult issues.  ? Excellent Customer service skills.