Project Coordinator Project Coordinator Project Coordinator Schaumburg, IL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Project Coordinator GeorgeJon - Chicago, IL February 2018 to June 2019 Conducted project kick-off meetings, defined project objectives, and clarified scope for various projects.  ? Managed Relativity Application Upgrades from project kickoff to the closure phase.  ? Served as the first escalation point for any issues encountered during the execution of projects during the weekend.  ? Utilized Microsoft Planner to plan and track in- progress projects.  ? Developed and maintained productive working relationships with project owners, engineers, and project stakeholders.  ? Conducted regular meetings, facilitated communications, transcribed meeting minutes, and ensured coordination and cooperation between the PMO and Account Management teams.  ? Created excel reports of current projects to be presented during weekly company-wide meetings.  ? Created project plan templates for Relativity Application Upgrades and a Full Relativity Environment Assessment for the PMO Department.  ? Planned and facilitated lessons learned meetings.  ? Facilitated the migration of project documentation from the existing directory structure into Sharepoint for the Office of PMO.  ? Created training documentation and utilized it to train incoming project managers on the Relativity Application Upgrade Process.  ? Performed a Relativity Application Upgrade of a test instance from version 9.5 to 9.6.284.6 for Managed Technology Solutions.  ? Established client expectations of project scope, deliverables, and communications for various projects, and disseminated information to assigned team members.  ? Prepared meeting minutes for the Global Accounts Executive to collect data on major clients.  ? Created email and meeting agenda templates in an effort to automate the workflow between the Client Account Specialist/Sales Engineer, Client, and Lead Architects.  ? Conducted monthly audit of our document repository(ITGlue) to ensure all client documentation was up to date. Business Development Representative Sharereferrals.com - Chicago, IL October 2017 to January 2018 Memphis, TN - Chicago, IL (Remote)  ? Worked with the app and web development to streamline open marketing projects and successful overall completion.  ? Led strategy sessions in order understand the business requirements necessary to assure the end goal met stakeholder expectations.  ? Created brand awareness by redesigning physical and digital marketing materials working other resources in a strategized marketing plan.  ? Identified major niches for the company and presented creative marketing strategies to target them effectively. Linux Systems Engineer Autozone SSC - Memphis, TN March 2017 to September 2017 Worked on variety of Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5.x/6.x/7.x servers, which included installation, configuration and maintenance of applications in a full production environment.  ? Worked closely with the project management team to deploy 200 servers in three phases to roll out.  ? Maintained all servers by performing package updates, patches and updating SSL certs.  ? Scheduled, planned, and supported deployments from DEV to PROD environments.  ? Provided 24/7 support in a 99.99% environment to maintain maximum uptime and ensure server reliability.  ? Provided detailed feedback to the Unix Team on server failures, serviceability of servers, and integration with the datacenter.  ? Re-cabled and replaced faulty HP Proliant servers in the datacenter.  ? Logged into VMware datacenter (vCenter) on a daily basis to perform many of the open support tickets  ? Navigated through ESX/VMware environment for the purpose of deploying VMs.  ? Reviewed project plan of future Linux server additions to assure we had necessary resources available.  ? Worked with Red Hat Satellite Server to push changes across various servers simultaneously.  ? Provided daily production support to multiple teams on three different projects, consisting of 200 or more servers.  ? Was exposed to multiple layers of the infrastructure and worked with other infrastructure engineers and the application development team as the assigned application engineer. Linux Systems Administrator XO Communications - Beaverton, OR February 2016 to August 2016 Setup and Configured Red Hat Satellite and kickstart Servers for Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5/6 installs and RHN Push Updates.  ? Customized kickstart configuration channels to deploy RHEL.  ? Implemented server modification and environment based Perl/BASH script to manage a large active directory addition of over 500 Servers.  ? Troubleshot server failures, tracked server health, and offered routine support functions to data center users.  ? Worked with a team that planned and executed a complete hardware and software change for Legacy systems in the company's data center.  ? Reviewed/analyzed vulnerabilities and communicated issues to upper management.  ? Ensured that all environments are functioning correctly with health-checks and function ability flows. Education Bachelor's of Science in Business Administration in Business Administration DEVRY UNIVERSITY - Addison, IL 2014 Skills Microsoft Office Suite (3 years), Microsoft Word (6 years), Microsoft Excel (2 years)