Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer - DCI Solutions, Inc North East, MD Integrity-driven professional with over 4 years of experience in enterprise infrastructures and DoD tactical  communication systems. Ability to work with large and small groups, as well as the ability to work  independently to achieve objectives and project deadlines. Excellent problem solving and troubleshooting  background with various components of digital data. Work Experience Systems Engineer DCI Solutions, Inc March 2019 to Present Subject Matter Expert (SME) of configuration and maintenance of Persistent Threat Detection  System (PTDS), and Persistent Ground Surveillance System (PGSS).  • Researched and developed solutions in a System Integration Lab (SIL) and field site locations of operational systems, in correlation with Field Support Representatives (FSRs) and DoD  contractors.  • Developed Failure Mode, Effects & Criticality Analysis (FMECA) for PTDS to help identify, prioritize, and eliminate potential system component failures.  • Composed detailed Diminishing Manufacturing Sources and Material Shortages (DMSMS)  reports of Persistent Surveillance Systems Tethered (PSST) Medium components for Product  Director (PD) Aerostats.  • Performed system vulnerability scans, and continuous monitoring of PGSS, IAW DoD regulatory  compliance and Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIGs). Systems Engineer DCI Solutions, Inc November 2018 to March 2019 Build, configure, maintain, troubleshoot, decommission and document physical and virtual  Windows Servers and Storage Area Networks (SANs) in a Microsoft, RHEL and VMware  environment  • Coordinated Windows, VMware, and firmware patching of various enclaves in conjunction with weekly DISA guidelines of Information Assurance Vulnerability Management (IAVM).  • Planned, tested, and deployed configuration updates (Continuous Monitoring) to Windows and Linux systems IAW DoD regulatory STIGs.  • Configured and maintained Guardrail Ground Baseline (GGB), and Operation Ground Station  (OGS).  • Integrated and maintained PM SAI Quick Reaction Capability (QRC) enclaves, including  AWAPSS, TACOP, Constant Hawk, and EMARSS.  • Researched and resolved operational problems in conjunction with other engineers, technical  personnel, and third-party vendors to include Government off-the-shelf (GOTS) and Commercial  off-the-shelf (COTS) software. System Administrator Baltimore Consulting - Timonium, MD October 2015 to October 2018 • Assisted clients with technical details regarding their systems as a technical consultant.  • Responsible for resolving application issues such as performance, functionality, and bug  replication.  • Configured, maintained, monitored, and secured bare metal and virtual operational servers.  • Researched issues and developed strategies for improving system operational performance  and effectiveness on a per-client basis.  • Effectively managed a multiple forest environment: Active Directory, Organizational Units, Permissions, Security Groups, DHCP, DNS, and Group Policies per Domain.  • Administered various Host Intrusion Detection Systems (HIDS) systems, i.e., McAfee, Webroot, Symantec End-Point Protection, and Kaspersky.  • Supported VMware ESXi 5.5 - 6.7 Server Environments.  • Supported and maintained Cisco networking environments.  • Utilized Mobile Device Management (MDM) software (MobileIron) to configure company mobile  devices IAW Acceptable Use Policy (AUP). Education BS in Computer Science Western Governors University 2018 to 2021 High School Diploma College Career Technology Academy 2015 Skills Cisco, Dhcp, Vmware, Dns, Exchange, Networking, Windows server 2008 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ February 2018 to February 2021 Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES    • Cybersecurity • Cisco Networking  • AD, DNS, DHCP, and • Windows Server 2008/2012/2016  Group Policy • Microsoft 365/Hosted Exchange  • Hardware and Software • VMware  Configuration  • RHEL 6/7  • Windows Operating  systems 7/8/10