Splunk Developer Splunk Developer Splunk Developer - SRE Bellevue, WA 4 years of experience in designing Build process, Configuration Management, Process Automation, Build and Deployment Automation, Release Management, Application Monitoring, Source Code repository & Environment management    Administrating CI tools- GitHub, Jenkins and Nexus, Monitoring Tools and implementing Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery process    Thorough understanding of the concepts and principles of CI-CD and Dev-Ops culture and have implemented it successfully at my work. Work Experience Splunk Developer SRE - Bellevue, WA October 2017 to Present • Worked in a SRE team who is responsible for End to End CI/CD implementation, Infrastructure Management and End to End Monitoring for a Website.  • Monitor the application performance and setup alerts when the API's are failing to meet the defined thresholds and SLA's  • Created 150+ Dashboards addressing the business, operations and Management needs in Splunk, AppD and New Relic  • Worked with multiple teams to onboard the tools and enable monitoring  • Integrated alerts to SOC and Slack to assist the 24/7 DevOps teams to resolve the issues before it catches the fire  • Site Availability monitoring for all the website URL's using AppD  • Enabled Infrastructure monitoring and APM monitoring  • Enabled synthetic monitoring and end user monitoring  • Analytics and Daily reports to Management  • Help development team in following logging standards to make it readable in Splunk  • Gathered and understand the Client requirements and onboard new data sources into Splunk  • Experience in Installation, Configuration, Migration and Administered Splunk Search Head, Indexers, Heavy Forwarders, Deployment Server, Cluster Master, Deployment  • Integrate Splunk with LDAP and SAML and create role-based groups and access  • Involved in standardizing Splunk forwarder deployment, configuration and maintenance across UNIX and Windows platforms.  • Written puppet modules to install forwarders and agents in the cloud stack  • End to end stack monitoring.  • Integrated pagerDuty for P0 alerts to make a phone call to on-call person  • Good Understanding of configuration files, precedence and daily work exposure to Props. Conf, Transforms. Conf, Inputs. Conf, Outputs. Conf and Setting up a forwarder information based on requirement.  • Maintained Splunk Environment with multiple indexers; managed and configured settings  • Improved search performance by configuring to search heads for all Indexes in production  • Responsible for setting up alerts and monitoring from the Machine generated live data.  • Provide regular support guidance to Splunk project teams on complex solution and issue resolution.  • Responsible for administering, maintaining and configuring a 24 x 7 highly available, Splunk apps for production portal environment.  Experienced in creating and running Cron Jobs for scheduled tasks.  • Developed shell scripts to handle everyday System Administration tasks such as backup procedure, system cleanup, everyday system tasks, log rotation etc.  • Experience in AppDynamics APM, Database, EUM, Analytics, Infrastructure Monitoring, and Dashboard modules. Systems Administrator, DevOps Galaxy I Technologies - Bellevue, WA October 2015 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked in a team who is responsible for End to End CI/CD implementation for a Data warehouse project.  • Installed GitHub Enterprise, Cloudbees Jenkins and Nexus repository Pro in Prod Environments.    • Migrated projects from Accurev to GitHub and trained 250+ Developers, Architects and Administrators in using git as version control tool.    • Collaborated with development teams in designing folder structure and branching strategy implement package creation of Hadoop Jobs.    • Automate the promotion process of rpm's across environments using Nexus staging repository concept. Control and Automate the artifact promotion process - People with promotion Privilege in Nexus can promote the artifact from Jenkins (Nexus API).    • The responsibility for creating and associating version numbers and naming schemes to specific builds and tracking these versions back to the specific source files to which it applies.    • Installed Gerrit code review tool and integrated it with GitHub Enterprise to enforce code review process.    • Develop tools and scripts to improve our ability to continuously deploy, test and operates our clients products and services.    • Automated the deployment process of Hadoop Jobs using Jenkins, Reduced the deployment time from hours to minutes.    • Automated the execution of Teradata SQL files using Jenkins. Write Hooks to prevent the Check-in of Libraries to GitHub.    • Implemented Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment for Various  • Java Framework Projects and deployed to tomcat server using http method using Jenkins.  • Created CICD infrastructure in AWS environment and implemented CICD process  • Hands on with Puppet Manifest files to deploy automated tasks to many servers at once to maintain same configuration across all the environments.  • Worked on several Docker Components like Docker Engine, Hub, Machine, creating Docker Images, Docker Registry.  • Worked on Docker Container snapshots, attaching to a running container, removing images, managing Directory structures and managing containers.  • Used rally and worked in agile development model for our Sprints.  • Build or leverage existing tools to automate production and non-production deployments Enable faster product delivery and time-to-market  • Provide support to troubleshoot, diagnose, and resolve complex Integration and/or environmental issues  • Create monitoring solutions and instrument applications to provide insights into performance and to understand emerging issues  • Identify enhancements to improve stability or performance of integration processes Manage and control branching for all types of development.  • Document respective configurations, processes and procedures  • Monitor assigned systems for security and performance on a daily basis    Interested Areas in SRE/DevOps:  • Monitoring    • Automation    • CICD    • Build and release Education Master of Science in Branch University of California Riverside - Riverside, CA 2015 Bachelor of Technology in Branch SRM University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu 2014 Skills database, sql server, sql Certifications/Licenses Splunk Admin Certified Present Driver's License Assessments Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient June 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/zuzyaepn7kcmjacv Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.