Technical Support Engineer Technical Support Engineer System administrator Winter Park, FL Work Experience Technical Support Engineer Microsoft - Lake Mary, FL May 2018 to January 2019 Provide enterprise-level technical and business support to government, legal, financial, healthcare, and Fortune 500 customers. Research, diagnose, troubleshoot SharePoint Online, OneDrive for Business, Office deployment and activation technical issues. Collaborate cross-departmentally to resolve customer issues efficiently. Follow standard procedures for proper escalation of unresolved problems, creating and logging bug reports into tracking system. Support Office365 Enterprise products. Develop, maintain, and review documentation to support knowledgebase. Advise customers on product software changes and upgrades, best practices, and technical strategies to ensure operational stability.  • Facilitated seamless 100-employee use of virtual machines by determining proper settings to connect using remote desktop protocol (RDP).  • Consistently received 5-star reviews for customer service and issue resolution. Systems Administrator POLK COUNTY PROPERTY APPRAISERS - Bartow, FL July 2017 to February 2018 Oversaw SQL database servers running area and graphical imaging systems to assess property values and taxes for local county. Maintained optimal system and infrastructure availability. Installed and configured operating systems, application software, and system management tools. Monitored and tested application performance, resolving issues in collaboration with developers. Maintained security, backup, and redundancy strategies using SpectraLogic T120 Tape library. Configured, restored, and backed up SQL databases. Secured and maintained network as needed using Extreme and Cisco equipment. Implemented disaster recovery with management and configuration of NetBackup for server backups. Backup and restore of Cisco Switching and Routing networking equipment.  • Reduced restore time for disaster recovery databases by 50%+ by upgrading server to use USB3 to improve throughput to backup drive.  • Decreased overall WAN traffic for Windows updates by setting up Windows Software Update Services (WSUS) servers at remote locations.  • Improved network quality and security by configuring Windows Software Update Services (WSUS) servers at each remote location to cache and distribute windows updates for all machines.  • Configured systems that supported GIS infrastructure applications.  • Upgraded Veritas Netbackup 6.5 to Symantec Netbackup 8 optimizing backup performance and reducing backup time by 35%  • Upgrading SpectraLogic from LTO4 to LTO6 tape drives and installing SAS cards in server  • Installed, configured and maintained twenty Windows Servers 2008R2, 2012, 2012R2, 2016  • Dedicated system admin on my team of developers & In charge of doing everything server related.  • Move & execute code in SQL database, run query against DB and execute .bat files. Systems Associate BAYSHORE SOLUTIONS - Tampa, FL October 2015 to April 2017 Helped design information and operational support systems. Supported hosting web applications. Worked with sales team to market hosting service solutions. Installed, configured, tested and maintained operating systems, application software, and system management tools to optimize system and infrastructure availability. Maintained hyper-converged virtualization environments to increase scalability and resource efficiency. Work with developers to implement performance solutions. Develop and implement configuration plans for Apache, MySQL, and PHP, IIS and SQL ASP.NET applications, securing third-party support as needed. Maintained security, backup, and redundancy strategies.  • Developed plan to reduce amount of website penetrations and SQL injections for PHP application hosting.  • Collaborated with IT director to boost network efficiency by teaming network interface controller (NIC) to double throughput.  • Reduced time to backup virtualization environment 75% by analyzing network traffic and changing configuration in server switch.  • Reduced number of attacks to customer WordPress website by developing plan using third-party tools, resulting in decrease of network traffic saving bandwidth.  • Managed servers, workstations, computers, laptops, printers, routers, switches and existing network applications.  • Installed, configured and maintained over one hundred physical and virtual Linux servers with CentOS.  • Installed, configured and maintained over one hundred virtual Windows Servers 2003, 2008, 2008R2, 2012, 2012R2, 2016  • Migrating virtual servers and web applications from different environments  • Kept up with 99.9% SLA to over 1000 hosted applications  • Handled IIS, SQL, Apache, and MySQL migrations.  • Monitored Zabbix along with proprietary reporting software  • Kept track and managed All company IT assets  • Manage and maintain Active Directory, Exchange, DNS, DHCP,  • Maintain virtual environment on Citrix Xen Server  • Implemented and supported content management system (CMS)  • Provide 24/7 on-call support for QA, development and production environment.  • Responsible for the overall management of Web hosting and middleware infrastructure support for over 1000 Critical web Applications, such as design, Build and L3 Level support activities.  • Supporting the business and technology initiated projects as well as maintenance of production middleware systems. Education High school or equivalent Skills Active Directory (2 years), Apache (2 years), Citrix (2 years), CMS (2 years), SQL (3 years), System Administrator, System Admin, Linux Administrator, Linux, Red Hat, Vmware, DNS, Powershell, Cisco Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified September 2016 to September 2018 Network+ Certification October 2016 to October 2018 Assessments Technical Support Skills — Highly Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/7wdgomufkswbb-j Conscientiousness — Expert March 2019 Measures a candidate's tendency to be rule-abiding, well-organized, hard-working, confident, and think before acting. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ne-mvipw7w2-ptyi Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Core Competencies    A+/Network+ Certified  System Administration  Functional System Design  Web Application Support  Enterprise Support  Documentation  Server Virtualization  Disaster Recovery  Business Continuity  Testing  Incident Management  Technical Support  SQL management  Stakeholder Engagement  Vendor Relations    TECHNICAL SKILLS    Managing servers remotely using SSH and RDP  Microsoft Desktop XP, 7,8, and 10  Microsoft Server 2000, 2003, 2008, 2008R2, 2012, 2012R2, 2016  Microsoft Active Directory, Exchange 2010  .NET Web Applications Kentico, NOP commerce, Sitefinity CMS  PHP web applications WordPress  IIS 6  SQL Server Express 2005, 2008, and 2012 management  Centos Linux 6, 7  Ubuntu Linux 9 - 14  PHP web applications WordPress  Virtualization VMWare ESXi 6, Proxmox 5, Citrix Xen 5, Parallels Automation  APACHE, MySQL  NetBackup  DNS