Computer Science Instructor, Code Computer Science Instructor, Code Computer Science Instructor, Code Pasadena, MD Currently seeking part-time or flexible full-time work either for the next year or long term while  attending senior year at UMBC for degree in Information Systems. Work Experience Computer Science Instructor, Code The Schools 2018 to 2019 - James McHenry Elementary/Middle School, Baltimore City  - Managed a classroom of 30 children grades 1-8.  - Planned lessons with basic code concepts for students  - Led classroom discussions about various technology and community concepts. Systems Administrator Via-Tele LLC - Timonium, MD 2016 to 2018 - Daily help desk activities such as supporting end-users and reps with their computers for the call center  - Experience with Auto dialers such as Chase Data, and Five9.  - Deployed a Windows 10 based Domain with a Domain Controller, configured group-policy.  - Deployed office wide network with web filtering and content servers.  - Wrote and Scripted APIs between dialers and Databases.  - Occasionally provided QC and campaign setup support. Security Technician Complete Datacom LLC 2015 to 2016 - Pulled Cat5 and access control cable throughout buildings.  - Programmed access control systems for large medical center in Silverspring  - Programmed video systems for multiple small businesses.  - Deployed an in-house Intransa Server.  - Programmed/Installed Honeywell Access Control and Vista Burg Systems Mechanic Coales Automotive - Millersville, MD 2014 to 2015 - Oil Changes, General routine maintenance.  - Electrical repair, engine computer diagnostics  - Detailing and Cleaning  - Shop maintenance and stock keeping. IT Help Desk Internship Maryland States Attorney's Office - Annapolis, MD 2013 to 2013 - Provided end-user support.  - Helped maintain case-filing system  - Imaged computers and replaced hardware  - Developed an Inventory system in Microsoft Access.    Relevant Skills and Hobbies:  - IP Networking and Servers. Currently maintaining a large-scale home network with distributed  wireless, managed switches, web server, and NVR. Hardware Includes Mikrotik, Cisco, Supermicro and a full-sized rack cabinet.    - Pasadena Sound LLC (www.pasadenasound.com). Website and brand, entirely self maintained and hosted. A small wedding DJ and AV Company. Originally a hobby but has turned into a profitable  business on the weekends. Never interferes with work.    - Experience with Electronic repair and low voltage systems. Proficient experience with automotive  engine controllers and auto electronics. Additionally, proficient with small low voltage automation and IO systems such as Arduinos. Also skilled with audio appliances. Education BS in Information Systems University of Maryland Baltimore County - Baltimore, MD September 2019 North County High School - Glen Burnie, MD