Alaska Aerospace Security Unarmed Guard II Alaska Aerospace Security Unarmed Guard II Desktop/ System Administration Support Fort Knox, KY Work Experience Alaska Aerospace Security Unarmed Guard II Ahtna Facility Services Inc - Kodiak, AK May 2019 to Present Security Guard performed many tasks which included fixed-post, mobile, or foot patrols while maintaining  situational awareness and making decisions and/or taking actions consistent with established post orders,  facility rules, guidelines and protocols. Ensure building occupants and visitors comply with posted rules and regulations.    The Security Guard's responsibilities include:  • Ensure building occupants and visitors comply with posted rules and regulations.  • Monitor and enforce the personal identification and visitor control system;  • Turn off unnecessary facility lights, lock, unlock, or open windows, doors, gates, and cabinets and enforce energy conservation procedures and other related duties  • Answer telephones and take messages;  • Direct traffic, both vehicle and pedestrian, and control parking;  • Detect and immediately report persons attempting to gain unauthorized access to the property;  • Prevent, if possible, unusual incidents, and detect and report damages, accidents, fire hazards, and violations of the security procedures;  • Obtain professional assistance in the event of injury or illness to others while in the building or on the grounds;  • Staff the security office and monitor security cameras;  • Prepare a written report at the end of each shift;  • Provide security guard coverage on a shift basis for 24/7 service.  • Other administrative or miscellaneous light duties that do not interfere with patrol or other assigned duties. Service Desk/ADPE - Baghdad, IQ August 2017 to February 2019 Service Desk/ADPE August 2017 to December 2017 was offered the opportunity to be permanent. Became permanent and placed at US Embassy base Baghdad, Iraq. At the embassy I was a part of the Operation Inherent Resolve where I supported 4 different Army divisions.    • Interface with the customer unit(s) and perform strategic planning.  • Provide extraordinary Tier 1/2 level Support for Government networks end users of 6000+  • Assist Information Management Officers (IMO's) 30+ with daily functions of computer, network, and software management  • Configure, install and troubleshoot Smartcard reader issues  • Troubleshoot (CAC) logon issues by having uses try different CAC readers or new Computers  • Reset locked CAC PIN of 200+ customers  • Install, test, and configure workstations and software for users accessing low side and high side systems  • Patch workstations via Software Center and/or IAVA share for 30 Machines a day  • Windows 10 software update and software installs 200 per week  • Create 6000+ user accounts and workstation objects in Active Directory 6000 +  • Add users to Security Groups in Active Directory  • Create monthly Organizational mailboxes and Distribution lists using DISA Defense Enterprise Provisioning tool  • Troubleshoot over 4,000 Outlook mailbox issues  • Assist users with PST file creations in Outlook  • Create/provision 5,000 Enterprise e-mail accounts through DISA DEPO  • Extend and reset passwords for High side e-mail accounts through DISA Alternative Credentials for Disadvantage Users (ACDU)  • Created maintain, route, and resolved 10,000 tickets using BMC Remedy  • VTC Support at the customer facility to schedule classified and unclassified VTCs  • Work/In with Exchange Admin Center to create over 300+ Foreign national NATO accounts  • Remote to assist customers using RDP /SCCM Outside Plant Technician OSP - Kuwait City, KW February 2017 to July 2017 • Fiber Testing using OTDR and Light testing  • Restore Multimode Fiber and Single  • Troubleshoot Fiber strands by doing loop back on, ST, LC, and SC  • Restored Fiber Services Caused by natural Disasters for 100+ user running network on specific fiber lines  • Traveled to the customer for face to face meetings and site surveys  • Assisted in providing quotes for materials and man hours to customers and reconciling their trouble tickets  • Fiber Splicing for new fiber lines being ran more than 100 feet  • Copper Splicing for grounded copper that support 3,000+ DSN lines  • Troubleshoot DSN Lines and Cat 5/6 using Flukes  • Created new and ran 100+ CAT 5/6 cables that needed restoration from wear and tear.  • Man-hole Fiber runs under base Raytheon - Dallas, TX December 2016 to February 2017 • Migrated over 200+ Lotus note profiles to Outlook 2013  • Supported customers working for NASA  • Supported 15+ application for password reset  • Troubleshoot Microsoft tools such as Excel, PowerPoint, Word, Visio etc.  • Created 300+Tickets though BMC remedy for a record management  • Monitor AHT when speaking to customer  • MET SLA's and standards  • Plan, do, Check, Act when servicing the customer  • Monitor and analyzes statistical data and reports to determine trends, conformance to standards and directives, efficiency of the application support for the customer. Properly diagnose problems and guide users through problem resolution Fujistu North America INC - Dallas, TX April 2016 to December 2016 Dallas, TX April 2016 to December 2016    • Set up Passwords and User Accounts Strong understanding of AD Creating and managing Service Requests and Incidents through a ticket System  • Monitor Network usage and security from client-based application ensure fast effective restoration to service  • Expired Passwords in client-based applications  • Ensure Networks are running smoothly  • Printer mapping and Drive mapping to 200+ users  • VPN Troubleshooting  • Worked in Citrix Receiver to troubleshoot user servers' sessions on Citrix  • RSA troubleshooting  • Troubleshoot Outlook, Excel  • Troubleshoot monthly MDM corporate devices that were allowed on the company's network  • Assesses and troubleshoot computer support problems and applies understanding of computer software and hardware products and services to resolve problems of users.  • Properly diagnose problems and guide users through problem resolution.  • Set up, image or repair computer equipment and related devices.  • Train 100 users to utilize new computer hardware or software, including printing, installation, word processing, and email.  • Respond to phone, web, fax and email requests for assistance using remote tools and automated trouble ticketing system.  • Make site visits to provide touch labor to the customer  • Provide account management to 100+ user if needing information regarding the account  • Installs approved software weekly within regular business hours Systems Administrator CompuCom - Dallas, TX August 2014 to April 2016 • Assisted in the conception, development and implementation of site specific Standard Operating Procedures (SOP).  • Creating and managing 100 tickets daily Service Requests and Incidents through a ticket System called Service Now  • Monitor Network usage and security.  • Restored 20 MDM device through Client base application called Mobile Iron  • Expired Passwords every 30 to 60 days in Active Directory  • Reset 30+ password through server called Mainframe  • Ensure Networks are running smoothly by pinging machines using IP address and trace routes  • Troubleshooting problems with Microsoft Outlook and other Office products  • Ensure systems comply with industry standards be making sure security software is properly installed and up to date  • Printer mapping and Drive mapping by remoting in using rescue 123 or providing server path  • VPN Troubleshooting when users are not able to connect from home or the office  • Troubleshooting Operating Systems (Desktop and Server) and Server Roles (AD, Print Server, File Server) BMC Remedy 2010 to 2010 PowerShell ? BMC Remedy ? SME and Training ? Performance Evaluation? Thin Clients? Citrix Receiver ? MS exchange server ? SLA ?SCCM ?Imaging DELL &HP? eMass ?Software Patching ?DNS?DHCP Education Associates Degree Technical College December 2013 to September 2015 Diploma Greenbrier High School May 2010 Skills Receptionist, Microsoft Word, Security, Time Management, Excel Certifications/Licenses Security Guard