Material Control Administrator Material Control <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Monrovia, CA Adaptive, detail-oriented, and diligent Cal Poly Pomona honors graduate with a B.S. degree in Business Administration with an emphasis in Computer Information Systems currently working at NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Material Control Administrator NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory - Pasadena, CA October 2018 to Present • Decide the optimal procurement path which best serves the needs of the project and act as the primary liaison between vendors and the Component Engineering and Assurance Office ensuring budget and project deadlines are met.  • Utilize various software and purchasing methods such as P-Card (QCI Certified) and Oracle Acquisitioning to purchase electronic components for flight missions.  • Interface with requesters and provide input for reporting and analysis of work-in-progress.  • Assist with Cost Transfer Requests and Material Cost Transfers ensuring all necessary information and approvals are obtained and documented. Engineering Undergraduate Student NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory - Pasadena, CA September 2017 to October 2018 • Designed a UI dashboard to showcase employee progress and increase user activity and designed a favicon for WholeParts website.  • Performed front-end development for a browser plug-in on a Parts Acquisition and Review System database utilizing HTML, CSS, and GitHub.  • Analyzed datasheets for electronic components to generate part descriptions for 2000 part numbers.  • Created an on-screen user tutorial using open source JavaScript library to train new users. Chief Information Officer Management Information Systems Student Association - Pomona, CA August 2017 to June 2018 • Updated and maintained website utilizing SquareSpace's CMS and controlled website inquiries.  • Designed an email template to send out weekly newsletters to current and prospective MISSA members that increased meeting attendance by 10%. Information Systems Intern NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory - Pasadena, CA June 2017 to September 2017 • Performed interface and feature testing on WholeParts software and utilized Excel spreadsheets to document test cases.  • Created progress tracking tool with Excel VLOOKUP comparing parts lists.  • Developed Java program importing JSON and Excel files to calculate current progress which showed 408% increase in imported data. Education B.S. in Computer Information Systems in Web Application Development, Summa California State Polytechnic University 2014 to 2018 Skills Oracle, Sql, Java, Front-end, Html, Javascript, Visio, Visual basic, Css, Ui, Ux, Ux design, Purchasing, Microsoft office, Time management, Excel, testing, Powerpoint, MS Office Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/ishmene-andrei-cabral-17812aa5 Additional Information Skills & Interests    ? HTML, CSS, JavaScript  ? Java, Visual Basic, SQL  ? Sketch, Balsamiq, Visio  ? Project Management  ? Front-End Development  ? Video Editing / Photography  ? UI/UX Design  ? Organization  ? Time Management  ? Oracle (Purchasing)  ? Microsoft Office Suite