Salesforce Administrator and Data Manager Salesforce <span class="hl">Administrator</span> and Data Manager Data Systems Administrator and Data Analyst Santa Clarita, CA A creative, energetic problem-solver and team-player with an analytical mind and professional skillset. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Administrator and Data Manager SchoolGroup - Texas City, TX August 2018 to December 2018 I lead a team of admins in charge of designing SchoolGroup's CRM and Human Resources hiring processes. Data Systems Administrator Youth Policy Institute - Los Angeles, CA September 2016 to August 2018 I have worked with Efforts to Outcomes Case Management system, EZreports, and Salesforce as an admin and staff support agent.   • Assisting staff and programming leadership in data entry, creating reports and dashboards and troubleshooting using email, Zendesk tickeing system, and via chat.   • Exported, cleaned and restructured data to be migrated to Salesforce system.  • Heavily involved in explaining ETO system features to Salesforce developers and transfer programming needs of the system to Salesforce Implementation Partners. Analyst and Outreach Assistant Southern California Earthquake Center - Los Angeles, CA June 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities  -- Analyzed ShakeOut survey data using SPSS for annual reporting, showcasing successful global promotions of safety culture through effective outreach and service delivery. The report is then used in fundraising activities.   -- Performed Database maintenance and cleanup to enhance accuracy of ShakeOut registration count, requiring research to ensure certainty of data entries.    Accomplishments  I was able to develop the report on the ShakeOut survey. I analyzed the data of the survey quantitatively and qualitatively, and illustrated the results in graphs and tables. The report which is for the Director of Communication, Education and Outreach Department, consisted of the analysis, discussion and recommendations for the ShakeOut team to improve process and enhance the outcome.     I have also researched and provided a rich inventory of all governments and organizations involved in earthquake safety promotion. This inventory is used to expand Global ShakeOut outreach activities.     Skills Used  I am confident with using MS Word and Excel. I have used multiple Statistical Analysis tools like SAS, STATA and SPSS. Education Master's in Public Policy and Management University of Southern California, Price School of Public Policy - Los Angeles, CA 2013 to 2015 Master's in Natural Disaster Management University of Tehran - Tehr?n 2006 to 2009 Bachelor's in Agricultural Engineering University of Shiraz - Sh?r?z 2002 to 2006 Skills Salesforce.com Non Profit Success Pack, Efforts to Outcomes Case Management System, SAP Webi Reporting System, Salesforce.com, Data Analysis, Research, Statistical Analysis Software (SAS), STATA, SPSS, and Microsoft Office Suite: Word, Excel, PowerPoint. (2 years), Salesforce (2 years), CRM (2 years), Salesforce Admin