Network Administrator Network <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - EDM Americas Scranton, PA Dedicated and fast learning IT professional with a passion for information security. Strong experience designing, building, and managing infrastructure security solutions and platforms. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator EDM AMERICAS - Moosic, PA December 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ·     Designed, built, and managed security solutions including SIEM, proxy, reverse proxy, IDS, vulnerability scanners, antimalware/endpoint security, DLP, firewalls, authentication server and patch management.  ·     Conducted internal security assessment, triaged risks, and developed recommended solutions.  ·     Performed threat monitoring and responded to security incidents accordingly.  ·     Cooperated with Compliance on audits to meet client and regulatory standards including PCI DSS, HIPAA, SOC2, and NIST.  ·     Managed network devices such as firewalls, routers, switches, and wireless access points.  ·     Managed critical systems including FTP servers, web servers, domain controllers, Active Directory/Group Policy, and VMware environment.    Notable Projects:  ·     Migrated existing EOL proxy/reverse proxy, Forefront TMG, to new McAfee Web Gateway and Loadbalancer.org Enterprise VA Max solutions to improve web security and meet client regulation.  ·     Greatly improved effectiveness of Alienvault SIEM solution, including sensor deployment to new datacenter, expanding logging to all critical devices, increasing log retention, and better automating alerts. All to improve threat detection and ensure confidentiality, integrity, and availability across the organization.  ·     Revamped vulnerability management process, properly assessing risk and working with Infrastructure, Development, and Operations teams to ensure remediation.  ·     Improved encryption standards including upgrading all existing web servers to TLS 1.2 and all wireless access points to WPA2 to ensure data in transit integrity.  ·     Deployed Symantec DLP solution to prevent data loss and meet client regulations.  ·     Brought WSUS patch management solution up from a non-working state and completely automated Windows patch management process to ensure timely vulnerability remediation. Network/ Systems Administrator COMMONWEALTH FINANCIAL SYSTEMS INC - Dickson City, PA February 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  ·        Designed, built, and managed security solutions, including vulnerability scanners, log management, antimalware/endpoint security, content filtering, and patch management.  ·        Managed network device such as firewalls, routers, switches and PBX.  ·        Managed systems including application servers, asset management system, domain controllers, Active Directory/Group Policy, and backup solution.    Notable Projects:  ·        Played a critical role in project to bring company up to PCI DSS compliance involving design and deployment of various security solutions to prove confidentiality and integrity in an environment storing and transmitting credit card data.  ·        Implemented Nessus vulnerability scanning solution to meet PCI DSS compliance.  ·        Implemented WSUS and PDQ Deploy for patch management to meet PCI DSS compliance.  ·        Implemented Spiceworks asset management solution to meet PCI DSS compliance.  ·        Developed new security policies to meet PCI DSS compliance.  ·        Headed several projects to decommission EOL servers and migrate them to a new virtual environment. IT Support Tech COMMONWEALTH FINANCIAL SYSTEMS INC - Dickson City, PA July 2016 to February 2017 ·        Provided support to end users relating to hardware and software, computer applications, LAN components and peripherals. Education Associates in Computer Science MCCANN SCHOOL OF BUSINESS AND TECHNOLOGY July 2016 Skills TCP/IP, Network Administration, System Administration, Information Security, PCI DSS, Network Security, Virtualization, Firewalls, SIEM, IDS/IPS, Proxy, Windows, DLP, Vulnerability Scanning, Patch Mangement, Endpoint Security, Incident Response, Alienvault, McAfee, Nessus, Cisco, PDQ, Meraki, Symmantec, OpenVas, NIST, HIPAA, SOC2, Vmware, Office 365, NIST, HIPAA, SOC2, Alienvault, Cybersecurity, VMware, Meraki, Vulnerability Management, Endpoint Security, Reverse Proxy, Security Auditing, Threat Analysis, Incident Response, Network Design, AAA, Access Control, VPN, TCP/IP, Wireless, 802.11, Office 365, Vulnerability Management, Access Control, Active Directory, Networking, Technical Support, security, Web Application Vulnerability Scanning, Cyber Security Awards Graduated Validictorian 2016-07 McCann School of Business and Technology  Dean's List, 4.0 GPA Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Network+ December 2016 to May 2022 CompTIA Security+ February 2017 to May 2022 NACI Clearance 2018 to 2023 CompTIA Cybersecurity Analyst May 2019 to May 2022 Assessments Technical Support Skills — Expert February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/wrphv3tbanwtllyl Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.