IT Technical Analyst IT Technical Analyst Information System Administrator Madison Heights, VA I'm a technology professional skilled in system design, networking and administration. I also excel in areas of project management, document preparation, and quality assurance. I exhibit very strong communication skills, allowing me to present technical information in a tactful and succinct fashion, cutting implementation times with efficient, effective planning.    I have excellent research, time management and problem solving skills, highly organized and  self motivated with the ability to manage multiple projects and consistently meet  deadlines under project budget. Reliable and flexible availability to maintain maximum  system up-time and functionality. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Technical Analyst Georgia Pacific - Island of Hawai‘i, HI April 2019 to Present As a member of the GP East Coast Infrastructure team, I provide support and feedback to the on-site and remote technical resources assigned to this facility as it relates to information technology and systems that support the mill business network, manufacturing environments, and process control systems. My role is primarily to help fill the gaps created by an absence of resources during a major, multi-site pervasive wireless and network infrastructure upgrade project that is taking up a lot of the local resource’s time and focus. In my time here I’ve also managed to add some automation to their workflows by developing and deploying software solutions that allow them to better manage services which control manufacturing operations during patch deployment. These platforms supply the interfaces between their industrial equipment, process control, and business analytics systems. Automating the management of these services transformed an all-day, hands-on IT project into a few scripts that perform the work in several minutes automatically, collect logs and offer feedback to operations staff. Coordinated between local process control engineers, IT infrastructure teams, and the remote corporate infrastructure operations team to migrate their Windows Server Update Services delivery systems to a newer version of the Windows Server operating systems. Provided some fill-in desk-side and remote desktop support services to help minimize average time-to-ticket-resolution metrics for the local IT group. Operations Manager Thompson Heating and Cooling - Rustburg, VA May 2018 to September 2018  Strong and effective communication: excels at relating well to others, develops and maintains two-way communications, effectively explains and interprets organization policies and procedures    Team Skills: develops team momentum with enthusiasm and pride, makes valuable contributions to team objectives, strives for maximum team performance, excels in conflict resolution    Initiative: self-directing and self-pacing; a solution seeker; is alert to new opportunities, techniques, and approaches    Knowledge Sharing: coaching, mentoring, and teaching through a variety of individualized methods Systems Administrator Valtim Marketing Solutions - Forest, VA June 2014 to February 2018 Marketing Data Processing Analyst/Developer (2016-2018) -- Utilized and developed software automation processes to performe validation, sorting, classification, calculation, interpretation, organization, and transformation of client data to sanitize inputs to comply with USPS standard operating procedures (which, when fully implemented, this automation eliminated 90% of human errors compared to the previous years). Coordinated with design team to connect processed data streams from multiple automation platforms which streamlined the printing services pipeline and reduced operational costs while increasing operating capacity. Provided coaching and mentoring by training other members of the design team and working with members of Information Services to give instructional presentations, one-on-ones, hands-on training and support.  IT Systems Administrator (2014-2016) -- Team lead within the information services department over a 2 year project which evaluated and developed strategies to build out new and/or replace a significant amount of existing infrastructure, supported 150+ employees as the primary Help Desk operator, designed and implemented a complete disaster recovery solution, performed routine maintenance and build out of supporting systems for all groups, led a committee that vetted and developed a complete replacement for the Call Center unified communications platform, solved licensing and key management issues by developing policies and procedures that were approved and enforced by HR and compliance departments, improved physical security by coordinating with maintenance and HR to install surveillance equipment and HID card access to restricted areas (IT data center and Contact Center) to improve PCI-DSS and HIPAA compliance.  Contact Center Lead, Tier 3 (2014) -- Monitored overall performance of team and services provided for quality assurance Education Computer Science Central Virginia Community College - Lynchburg, VA August 2008 to March 2010 Skills Linux System Administration (7 years), Operations (Less than 1 year), Management (Less than 1 year), Microsoft (Azure Cloud, O365, etc.) (4 years), Windows System Administration (6 years), Help Desk (2 years), Documentation, Server Hardware and Software (7 years), Microsoft Office, System Administrator, Active Directory, Linux, SCCM, Vmware, Linux Administrator, System Admin, HTML, VM Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jacob-wills http://jacobwills.info Awards Certificate of Excellence 2016-03 Valtim Marketing Solutions Outstanding Dedication Award 2015-08 Valtim Marketing Solutions Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dzynvaenrmf-wxu Critical Thinking — Proficient June 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fd3z90nlxce-nhys Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Groups Arch Linux Forum and Facebook Group September 2017 to Present Active forum member delivering advice and commentary weekly. Lynchburg Coder Meetup Present Member of local software developer meetup group in Lynchburg VA. Lynchburg Makers Group August 2018 to Present Member of local "makers" meetup group representing a technology-based extension of DIY culture that intersects with software development and revels in the pursuit of engineering-oriented projects using electronics, robotics, 3-D printing, metalworking, woodworking, etc. Additional Information Expert IT Strategist, Operations & Business Intelligence Leader  Designing and Implementing Technology Strategies to Fuel Breakthrough Results    Career Profile  • Solutions-oriented, highly analytical and resourceful candidate with over 10 years of professional business management and technical experience in the technology industry providing quality end-user services, software development, server and network administration, data processing analytics, and cybersecurity.  • Strategic Planning: Positioned Valtim Marketing Solutions Inc. as a mail marketing innovator, developing technology systems, services, and operations strategies that automated core processes and enhanced the reliability and accuracy of data management services that drive their manufacturing to delivery operations pipeline.  • Business Transformation: Established new IT organizational infrastructure and revitalized existing operations by implementing robust support services and business practices to optimize how IT engages with all business disciplines.  • Technology Delivery: Enabled revenue growth, cost savings, process automation, and ROI increases through planning and integration of ERP, CRM, e-commerce, call center, content management, client data management, retail POS, online registration and engagement, along with other internal and third-party business systems or partners.    Core competencies include:    • Network Administration - Physical Device Topology and Networking Services Deployment, Network Segmentation, Layer 2 Switching, Routing, Firewalls, Wireless 802.11 WiFi networking and VLAN configuration.  • IP Telephony - Unified Communications Platforms, Elastix, and FreePBX, PSTN, POTs phones, Fax Machines, etc.  • Operating Systems - Windows Desktop and Server operating systems, Linux based operating systems (CentOS, RHEL, Debian, and Arch), FreeBSD, network file haring configurations, anti-virus solutions, Microsoft Active Directory Domain Management, etc.  • Database Administration - MySQL, MariaDB, Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle and PostgreSQL  • Web Server Administation – NGINX, Apache, HAProxy, Tomcat, PHP, etc.  • Cloud Services – AWS, Google Cloud Platform, Microsoft Azure  • Virtualization/Hyperconvergence/Containers – VMWare, Citrix XenServer, Oracle VirtualBox, Docker, FreeBSD Jails, beHyve, etc.