Team Lead Federal Protective Service Helpdesk Team Lead Federal Protective Service Helpdesk Team Lead Federal Protective Service Helpdesk - CACI Shenandoah Junction, WV To obtain a challenging and rewarding position with an organization that will enable me to contribute by utilizing my knowledge, skills, and abilities in telecommunications and information technology to further enhance organizational productivity. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Team Lead Federal Protective Service Helpdesk CACI - Ashburn, VA November 2015 to Present Oversee and ensure trouble tickets are handled correctly and timely within Remedy ticketing system. Point of contact for VIP users, offering direct support for Directors and Chiefs. Provide tier II remove support for urgent issues that can not wait for field support to resolve. Duties also include creating and maintaining system rights in Active Directory, providing network access, extensive Outlook mailbox assistance, unlocking workstations and equipment, applying updates (Windows, Java, ect), as well as troubleshooting of end user issues for escalation. Tier II Support Technician / Jr. Systems Administrator Commputercations - Frederick, MD December 2014 to October 2015 Provided on site and remote support for users. Duties included, joining PC's to domain, installing printers and print drivers, virus removal, computer imaging, firewall management (Watchgaurd), network troubleshooting, VPN configuration, as well as physical hardware support and troubleshooting. Also worked directly under the Systems Admin to assist with Admin tasks such as account creation in Active directory, password resets, group creation, Exchange management, implementing server updates and monitoring system health. Configured print servers and Thin Client environments. Also assisted with testing and collecting data for new field equipment and software. Education Frederick Community College - Frederick, MD 2014 B.A. degree in Business and Social Work Hofstra University 2004 to 2007 Certifications/Licenses Active Top Secret Clearance CompTIA A+ Present Additional Information Professional going on three years of experience in telecommunications systems and information technology. Excellent skills in organization, written and oral communication, critical thinking, troubleshooting, problem analysis and resolution, customer service, personnel management and training. Interact and work well with people of diverse backgrounds, cultures, professional and technical levels.