Graduate Systems Assistant Graduate <span class="hl">Systems</span> Assistant Fort Collins, CO Red Hat Certified Systems Administrator with over 2 years of experience in administering RedHat and CentOS Linux servers. Strong information technology professional with a master’s degree in Computer Science from Colorado State University, USA. Looking to leverage my knowledge and experience into a role as Systems Administrator. Work Experience Graduate Systems Assistant Colorado State University - Fort Collins, CO August 2016 to May 2019 • Assisted the systems team with administering over 500 servers and workstations running RHEL and Fedora Linux, supporting over 3000 users.  • Written scripts to reduce the downtime during cloning Linux systems to 15 minutes.  • Database administration for MariaDB, PostgreSQL and MongoDB.  • SELinux and Penetration Testing for server hardening.  • Installed and configured NVIDIA GPU hardware and software tools (CUDA).  • Performed periodic system backups on tape drive.  • Installed software packages from source code and integrated them into the system as needed.  • Provided technical support over email and in person to resolve issues.  • Troubleshooted local network (LAN) and Internet connectivity issues. System Administrator Panjab University - Chandigarh May 2015 to August 2016 • Administered servers and workstations running RHEL & CentOS Linux.  • Installed and maintained internet and intranet services (Apache, Mail, DNS, DHCP, Samba).  • Administered the High-Performance Computing Cluster (HPCC), running on ROCKS Cluster OS.  • Developed shell scripts for user administration and storage management.  • Developed JAVA based DAQ software for collecting and monitoring data for EHEP Lab  • Installed new hardware and software as per the requirements of the research scholars and faculty.  • Managed the local network of the research group. Education MCS in Computer Science Colorado State University - Fort Collins, CO August 2016 to May 2019 Skills Linux, Linux Administrator, Redhat, System Administrator, System Admin, OpenStack, MariaDB, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, Nvidia CUDA, SELinux, Virtualization, Red Hat, CentOS, Fedora Certifications/Licenses Red Hat Certified Systems Administrator (RHCSA) August 2018 to August 2021 Credential ID: 180-179-954  Issued at: Denver, USA.  Verify: https://www.redhat.com/rhtapps/certification/verify/?certId=180-179-954 Certified OpenStack Administrator (COA) June 2019 to June 2022 Credential ID: COA-1900-001854-0100  Issued at: Fort Collins, USA.  Verify: http://www.openstack.org/coa/coa-verify/