Desktop Support Analyst Desktop Support Analyst Desktop Support Analyst Converse, TX I’m an accomplished IT professional who is versatile, reliable, and dedicated. Consummate Systems Analyst with comprehensive knowledge of computer systems and troubleshooting skills honed during support of operations from 20 to over 2000. My goal is to help people and the technology they use succeed at work, period!   Put simply, my expertise is delivering results through effective IT support. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Desktop Support Analyst Millennium1 Solutions - San Antonio, TX September 2014 to Present Responsibilities:  • Starting IT department in the US.  • Active Directory (AD) management.  • Group Policy Object (GPO’s) creation and management.  • Delivering operational and desktop support.  • Provide 24/7 on-call support to report on problems and resolutions.  • Responsible for the overall administration of the desktop environments.  • Analysis of new software and desktop requests, provide purchase suggestions.  • Creation of network infrastructure.  • Spin-up/maintenance of servers.  • VoIP software support (Cisco).  • Create and maintain all documentation related to processes and procedures, infrastructure diagrams, and technical manuals.  • Setup and create predefined images for different lines of businesses.  • Maintain and enforce internal security policies including licensing and remote device protection.    Accomplishments:  • The only IT Operations personal hired to support opening the only United States based operations location.  • Created and implemented full IT infrastructure framework allowing for full operations of business in under a month.  • Tasked with recreating all user GPO’s to support an upgrade to Internet Explorer 11. Completed each deadline early allowing for faster deployment.  • Obtained 100% customer satisfaction rating on all service tickets completed for over an 18 month period.  • Developed full spectrum of IT documentation including detailed client configuration build books, network diagrams, server room rack diagrams, and inventory. This reduced report timing to senior level employees from 24 hours to 1 hour.  • Maintained 100% patch level through WSUS on all local computers and servers which reduced security threats to systems. Junior Systems Administrator Red Ventures - San Antonio, TX July 2012 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Active Directory management.  • Delivering operational and desktop support.  • VoIP software support (Interactive Intelligence).  • Server room maintenance.  • Action issues through ticket management center.  • Maintain an accurate software and hardware inventory.  • Maintenance of the internal network cabling and cross-connects. Executing changes as required.  • Maintenance of network printer devices.  • Create, configure, and manage company’s in-house developed intranet system.  • Identify and escalate production critical issues to the appropriate groups.    Accomplishments:  • Assumed responsibility for object creation/deletion, group assignment, and delegation of organization unit contents in Active Directory allowing for a clean and organized management environment.  • Maintained on-site server room; Responsible for installation of extensions, maintenance, upgrades, and organization. Completely self-rewired to maintain a visually immaculate presentation and ease of maintenance/troubleshooting.  • Provided technical support to all on-site users as well as remote support to off-site users with an average issue resolution time of less than 2 hours.  • Organized the rewriting and addition of key IT documents on the IT Knowledgebase. This allowed for easy referencing and increased collaboration between colleagues.   • Organized and executed shutdown of San Antonio based operations. Was last employee on staff in San Antonio and was trusted with the responsibility of packaging and shipping all equipment to home office. Computer Science Lab Monitor UTSA - San Antonio, TX January 2011 to May 2012 Responsibilities:  • Troubleshooting hardware/software issues.  • Instruct students on how to navigate the UTSA Computer Science network.  • Supervise the use of computer lab equipment.  • Tutor beginner level students in the basics of programming.    Accomplishments:  • Organized the building and deployment of additional computers in the computer lab completing finishing deployment a week early.  • Tutored entry level students in the basics of Java, C, and MATLAP programming resulting in a letter grade increase on each student I tutored.  • Performed PC and printer repairs on-site resulting in a decrease of service calls performed and decreasing costs. Education Computer Science University of Texas at San Antonio - San Antonio, TX August 2010 to May 2012 Mathematics and Computer Science San Antonio Community College June 2009 to May 2010 Skills Active Directory (4 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Troubleshooting (6 years), Windows Server (4 years), Computer Hardware (10+ years), Group Policy (2 years), Windows Operating Systems (8 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/JonathanLeeWalker Awards Eagle Scout 2002-04 Obtained the rank of Eagle Scout from the Boy Scouts of America