Windows Server 2008, 2012 Windows Server 2008, 2012 Systems Engineer Spokane, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Windows Server 2008, 2012 Nuvodia - VOLT - Spokane, WA October 2018 to February 2019 Location  Spokane WA    RESPONSIBILITIES  ROLES  ? Windows Server 2008, 2012, 2016 Administrator  ? VMWare and vSphere  ? Backup Administrator: Barracuda, Veritas, Backup Server, etc.  ? Active Directory Administrator  ? Office 365 and Exchange Administrator  ? ConnectWise Ticket System    SKILLS  ? Windows Server 2008, 2012, 2016  ? VMWARE Administrator vSphere 6.5 Console  ? Office 365, Exchange.  ? Active Directory - System Administration and Managing users, Groups, roles and access permission.  ? Systems Center Configuration Manager SCCM • Group Policies  WINDOWS SERVERS AND APPLICATION ADMINISTRATOR Oregon Legislature September 2016 to August 2018 Location  Oregon State Capitol Building    RESPONSIBILITIES  ROLES  ? Office 365 Cloud Administrator  ? Applications Administrator  ? Project Manager Online Applications Implementation  ? Skype for Business (Lync) Administrator  ? Windows Server Administrator - Server2008-2012  ? Active Directory Administrator    SKILLS  ? Windows Server 2008, 2012, 2016  ? Office 365 - Mail, Project Online, Exchange, OneDrive.  ? Security and Compliance, Public Records Request  ? Active Directory - System Administration and Managing users, Groups, roles and access permission.  ? VMWare - vSphere 6.5  ? Systems Center Configuration Manager SCCM • Group Policies  ? Experience with Virtual desktops and apps INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ENGINEER TEKsystems March 2016 to July 2016 Location  Saint Charles Hospital Network/Bank of Cascades    RESPONSIBILITIES  BANK OF THE CASCADES (Currently First Interstate Bank):  Transition from Bank of America to Bank of the Cascades Cloud based clients  ? Network Management, DNS, DHCP  ? Resolving technical issues with transition and providing solutions  ? CITRIX and WYSE  ? Printers, scanners and banking equipment    SAINT CHARLES HOSPITALS AND CLINICS:  Deployment Team to replace 2,500 Windows XP computers to new Windows 7 En- terprise with CITRIX for all Saint Charles Hospitals and clinics around eastern Oregon  ? Experience working with Health Systems, doctors, nurses and patients  ? Migrate and/or upgrade all existing apps and files  ? Imaging new clients  ? Client Operating System Transition  ? CITRIX setup  ? NFC Card ID Login, swipe once to login to current session anywhere  ? Systems Center Configuration Manager SCCM  ? Active Directory: System Administration and Managing users, Groups, roles and access permission  ? Microsoft Office • Virtual desktops and apps  ? Specialized Lab Equipment  ? Network, Printers, Scanners    Recommendation letter:    found her extremely technical and able to perform all the responsibilities that were  required, she is a joy to work with.    My first encounter with Claudia was first of this year where she helped on a contract  position for Bank of the Cascades. She fully took over a branch and was fully in charge of setting up the entire place with all of Bank of the Cascades hardware. Everything,  but not limited, to teller computers and hardware parts to printers and fax machines.  She took on this project and worked independently and was able to complete this in the time that was expected. I got feedback from the managers and directors there at the Bank of the Cascades, that she was a solid person. Not only was she technically  knowledgeable, but she was a great communicator and worked well with the Bank  ambassadors that was there on-site while she was working. She is a hard worker and passionate about what she does.    My second contract that I hired Claudia for was a deployment of thin clients ma- chines. She was in charge of a very large environment and was one amongst a team  of 8. Again Claudia didn't shy away from taking over a task and getting things done.  She had no problem working within the medical IT field and worked really well with the team. I received feedback from the managers there on site and they said that  Claudia was excellent. She is through and detailed and neat in her work. She likes  perfection and does things right the first time. They said that she got along with everyone and enjoyed her positive attitude and personality that she brought to the  team.    Claudia has been a great contractor. She is dedicated and has a great work ethic. She  would be a great asset to your company. Please feel free to reach out with any ques- tions or if you need more information.    Thanks!  Brenda Miller  TEKSystems Recruiter Systems Administrator Office 365, Exchange, Backups, Spam Filters and ConnectWise Software for Windows Serves,  VMWare, Office 365, Exchange, Backups, Spam Filters and ConnectWise Software.    • At Oregon State Legislature I was the Windows Servers Administrator and Admin  for Office 365. We used Track-it ticket system.    • For the UNISYS Corporation I was the pre-sales and software engineer for every  enterprise level UNISYS and ORACLE network in Northern Colombia. I sold,  installed and supported systems in factories, banks, enterprise, military and government agencies, using the entire UNISYS and ORACLE line of hardware and  software.    • I am a Windows Server Administrator. Also UNIX Administrator.    • I provide ORACLE software and hardware installation, upgrades and troubleshooting.    • I have been in charge of deploying new software products through demos,  presentations and benchmarks to the local customer communities. I was a customer Internal/External trainer of Unix topics. Education INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY MANAGER University of Hawaii at Manoa - Honolulu, HI May 2011 to June 2013 Word of Life Christian Center - Honolulu, HI March 2006 to May 2011 Web Services and Commerce University of Hawaii Google Email Services laptop per child in High School Skills Active Directory, Vmware, Vsphere, SCCM, Powershell Links http://linkedin.com http://www.linkedin.com/in/claudia-butcher-b59285b8