Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Wells Fargo Charlotte, NC ? Experience in Installing, Configuring, Tuning and troubleshooting of Oracle WebLogic Server 7.0/8.1/9.x/10.x/11g/12c on Linux, Solaris and Windows platforms.  ? Installed and Configured Weblogic JMX and worked to setup with MBeans.  ? Integrating Weblogic Environments with Apache web server 2.2 for reverse proxy.  ? Intermediate knowledge of SQL 2014 and SQL 2016.  ? Hands-on experience in setting up multiple clusters and implementing Load Balancing, High Availability and Failover functionality.  ? Excellent working knowledge in finding Memory Leaks and adjusting JVM Heap Size and Garbage Collector parameters during performance monitoring and performance tuning of WebLogic server.  ? Experience in Maintaining, Configuration and Trouble-Shooting Oracle WebLogic Server.  ? Experience using Weblogic Admin, weblogic Deployer and weblogic server commands.  ? Experience in installing Oracle SOA suite 11g.  ? Extensive hands on experience in deploying J2EE Application archives which include JAR, WAR, EAR and RAR files and Web-Based/E-Commerce on Web Logic Application Server.  ? Configured SSL setup for Apache through WebLogic plug-in.  ? Worked on the Oracle Fusion Middleware stack of products like Oracle access manager, Oracle Internet Directory, Oracle Content DB, Oracle Portal, Oracle Collaboration suite, Oracle B2B etc.  ? Configure F5load balancer with Web servers. Used F5 to capacity, performance and reliability of the applications  ? Experience in Java performance testing and troubleshooting using JConsole, JRockit Mission Control and JProfiler.  ? Experience on Scripting like shell, perl, Unix etc.  ? Configured WebLogic JDBC connection pools with databases.  ? Good understanding of load balancing using F5, Site minder and DNS.  ? Strong knowledge in Clustering EJB objects, JDBC connections and JMS connection factories.  ? Expertise in writing WLST scripts using Python for administration of WebLogic server  ? Experience in both Clustered and non-Clustered environments.  ? Excellent problem solving skills with a strong technical background and good communication and interpersonal skills. Self-motivated and a good team player. Work Experience Systems Administrator Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Installed, configured and troubleshooted WebLogic Server 12.1.3, 12.2.1 and Apache 2.4, under Windows, Linux environments  ? Installed and configured MW products such as Weblogic, Apache using HPSA (hewlett packard server automation) tool and used AnthillPro tool for deployments.  ? Worked on Work Flow Automation project (WFA) to automate applications when there is maintenance.  ? Worked on upgrading MiddleWare projects and upgraded Weblogic 11g/12.1.x versions to 12.2.1.x  ? Installed and Configured Apache HTTP Server 2.4 to proxy with WebLogic  ? Installed and configured Weblogic 12.2.1 from scratch (created domains, multiple managed instances, machines, clusters and configured Nodemanager, datasources, JMS and deployed applications. Configured Weblogic plugin on Apache webservers  ? JDBC Connection Pool and Multipool configuration with Oracle, MySql, Sybase, DB2 and SqlServer etc.  ? Experienced with RDBMS implementation and development using Oracle 10g/11g, PL/SQL, SQL Server, Microsoft Access and MySQL 4.0.18.  ? Installed and renewed SSL certificates for Web/App servers  ? Deployed various J2EE applications (WAR and EAR) on WebLogic, Tomcat and Jboss Servers using automated shell scripts and Anthill deployment tool  ? Configured JMS Queues and Topics using a managed JMS environment.  ? Developed various shell scripts and run them as scheduled Cron jobs to automate startup and shutdown of WebLogic and Tomcat servers.  ? Experience in Configuring and administering JTA, JNDI, SNMP and Node manager to administer the managed servers from admin console in WebLogic application server.  ? Monitored and tuned JVMs, JVM heap size, garbage collections, Java stack and Native thread results in Development, System Test, Staging and pre-production.  ? Log files analysis such as WebLogic server logs, node manager logs, plug-in logs, and thread dumps, verbose GC logs for troubleshooting and problem determination to resolve issues  ? Involved in application tuning to speed up the application  ? Develop database application forms using MS Access in coordination with SQL tables and stored procedures.  ? Used Wily Introscope monitoring tool to monitor the Weblogic servers  ? Trouble-Shooting of JVM memory issues such as Java Heap memory by monitoring garbage collection with Verbose GC and Trouble-Shooting of JVM out-of-memory issues, server crash, stuck threads on application servers.  ? Provided 24x7 on -call support for production environments. Systems Administrator ACME Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2013 to March 2015 Responsibilities:    ? Installed, Configured and administered Oracle WebLogic Server 10.0 MP1, 10.0 MP2, 10.3, 11g, 12c, Oracle SOA suite 11g and Webservers like Apache in Development, Test and Production Environments.  ? Deployed applications (WAR, JAR and EAR) using WLST  ? Worked on upgrading jdk versions, also Weblogic servers from lower versions of 9.x, 10.x to 11g and recently 12c making sure all the applications are running after performing upgrade task  ? Maintained Load balancing, high availability and Fail over for the servers.  ? Developed Startup, Shutdown and Bounce the WebLogic server scripts.  ? Configured and administered the JDBC, JMS and JNDI in Oracle WebLogic Server11g and 12c  ? Wrote Shell Scripts to automate processes.  ? Used configuration wizard and configuration builder extensively to create and manage WebLogic domains.  ? Assisted in offering support to other personnel who were required to access and analyze the SQL database.  ? Created database triggers to implement business requirements using SQL.  ? Install configure JBOSS 5/6 Application server for the VPDC environment and currently working on the Prod environment setup in Cloud environment.  ? Configured JBOSS through a firewall based environment using TCP  ? Conducted migrating operations on the application from Web Sphere to JBOSS and deployed web and enterprise applications on JBOSS application server.  ? Shell scripting for building and deploying Java application to target environments.  ? Experience in backup and recovery of Oracle SOA suite dehydration store.  ? Managed production support and troubleshooting for various Oracle SOA applications and involved in maintenance of production SOA instances.  ? Involved in performance tuning of JVM and used Garbage collection Algorithms for better performance.  ? Deployed multiple IP remediated applications as a part of the migration and tested the new applications successfully.  ? Registered the servers from the new DataCenter to the new Policy Server for Authentication of the applications.  ? Troubleshoot emerging application issues, from WebLogic configuration to code issues.  ? Developed ANT build scripts and UNIX shell scripts for auto deployment process  ? Experienced in applying the patches to the WebLogic servers.  ? Provided 24x7 on-call support for production / non production environments. Education Teaching/Research University of South Florida November 2015 to December 2016 Skills Apache (3 years), Java (3 years), Jboss (3 years), SQL (3 years), WebLogic (3 years) Additional Information Technical Summary  Application Servers WebLogic 10.x/11g/12c, Apache Tomcat 5.x, JBoss 6.x.    Operating Systems RedHat Linux 5x/6x, SUSE Linux, HP-UX, IBM-AIX, Windows XP.  Languages Java, SQL, Unix Scripting, Shell Scripting, WLST.  Tools/Utilities Wily Introscope, Anthill Pro, Maven, Ecplise MAT, IBM Heapanalyzer, Tealeaf  Protocols T3, T3S, Http, Https, Ftp and TCP/IP.  IDE IBM RAD 6.0, Eclipse, JBuilder  Data / Object Modeling MS Visio  Testing Tools JUnit, Win Runner 8.2, Test Director.  Monitoring Tools Wily Introscope, JMeter, HP OpenView, Samurai.