Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Macomb, MI Systems Administrator with five years of experience, responsible for installation, configuration, management and instruction of information systems in both a stand-alone and client-server environment, including VMware, Microsoft, and Cisco. Recognized efficiency resulting in increased responsibility at each position, excellent interpersonal skills, strong attention to detail, organized, team-oriented, reliable, able to multi-task, capable of achieving goals with little or no supervision and delivering high level technical material in a manner that is easily comprehended by audiences at multiple skill levels Work Experience Systems Administrator United States Marine Corps - Norfolk, VA September 2011 to September 2013 Trained 25 Marines in the daily operations of Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange, and Blackberry troubleshooting.  • The administration and maintenance of enterprise level Windows 2003/2008 domain controllers, e-mail, web, print and database systems for multiple sites.  • Worked closely with the Information Assurance team by managing Windows Server Update Service (WSUS), ensuring virus protection (Symantec and McAfee), making registry configurations and enforcing policy required to maintain the availability and security of the networks.  • Creation and management of Active Directory accounts on two enterprise networks.  • Coordinated and executed the installation and maintenance of client computers, networking devices, and servers.  • Managed over 80 Blackberry accounts, including changing devices between users and OS upgrades.  • Planned and implemented the transition of directory accounts, SSL certs and hardware between 5 different VIPs.  • Managed LAN and WAN network environments, Cisco Call Manager, and network security.  • Assisted with the planning and execution of changing the IP scheme. Systems Administrator United States Marine Corps September 2009 to September 2011 Trained over 20 Marines in the daily operations of Active Directory, Exchange, Virtual Infrastructure 3.x, vSphere 4.x environments, and disaster recovery.  • Executed the installation, operation, and maintenance of over 70 physical and 200 virtual servers, fibre-channel based Storage Area Networks (SAN), switches and routers, and 41 cryptographic devices (KIV-7 HSB, KIV-19, KG-175D, AN/PYQ-10).  • Managed more than 500 (Windows 2000, XP and 7) workstations and 14,000 user accounts spanning 5 different multi-site enterprise networks (classified and unclassified).  • Active Directory and Group Policy management.  • Configured and managed DNS, Exchange 2003, and SQL 2005, in both Virtual Infrastructure 3.x and vSphere 4.x environments.  • Configured Fibre, iSCSI, and NFS storage protocols for use by VMware ESX hosts.  • Performed deployment of Solarwinds 10.1 servers on all networks to improve the administration and monitoring of all servers spread across different sites throughout the Pacific Rim that resulted in an improved management of the tactical networks.  • Installed Windows Server 2003/2008 on multiple hardware platforms to include Dell Poweredge 6850, 2950, 2850, 1950, 1850, and HP Proliant DL380G5 and DL580, and installed and configured various types of network devices including Cisco 3750 and 3845, and EMC Clarion CX-310.  • Built compliant 32-bit and 64-bit Windows Server Virtual Machine templates that were used for quick deployment during several multinational exercises. Military Service Branch: Marine Corps Service Country: United States Rank: Corporal October 2008 to October 2013 Additional Information Awards & Recognition:    Marine Corps Good Conduct Medal for honorable and faithful service. (2012)    Education & Certifications:    Data Network Specialist Course, 29 Palms, CA (2009)  Network +  Security +  MCSA:Windows 7  MCTS:Windows 7 Configuration  MCITP:Windows 7 Enterprise Desktop Support Technician  HDIDesktop Support Technician    Currently pursuing following certifications:  CCNA  CCNP  Cisco Voice and Unified Communications Administration (ICOMM)  Certified Ethical Hacker  ITIL Foundations  VMware vSphere Install, Configure, Manage v5.5  Applying Project Management    References and security clearance information available upon request