Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Information Technology and Services Professional West Allis, WI Work Experience Systems Administrator Quad/Graphics, Inc. - Sussex, WI June 2008 to September 2011 Information Systems - Technical Services  Systems Administrator: Multi-User Windows (Citrix) team    - - Acted as administrator for 72 international Citrix servers that host hundreds of corporate applications essential for continuous production of customer print.  - - Coordinated with business executives, software experts, help desks, data sources, security, and network teams in a 24x7 availability environment.  - - Managed a project for an international thin client lifecycle; incorporating a rollout that supported current and future business needs.  - - Configured 20 production servers for a 32-bit to 64-bit OS migration project in an initiative to support more resource intensive applications and an increasing user load.  - - Lead a project for the Quad Medical, LLC migration to a Citrix Presentation Server 4.5, 64-bit server farm.  - - Performed monthly server maintenance and security patching processes necessary to preserve a healthy user environment and robust infrastructure.  - - Executed application qualification processes from testing to production go-live, including group policy configurations, permission setting, menu shortcuts and registry hacks.  - - Carried out information systems research and integration projects.  - - Fielded support calls from end users and worked through to resolution on a priority basis.  - - Administered Microsoft Active Directory User and Computer management.  - - Controlled full desktops using the Group Policy Management Console.  - - Created, updated, and followed documented best practice procedures. Education Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) in Management Information Systems (MIS) University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee - Milwaukee, WI 2005 to 2009 Skills Windows Server, Citrix, Print, Active Directory System Administration, Microsoft Office, Customer Service, Problem Solving Software Installation, Documentation, VMware, Windows Server 2003 Administration, Workstations, Customer Satisfaction, Troubleshooting, Attention To Detail, Organization Links http://www.linkedin.com/pub/james-r-hermes/3b/888/977 Military Service Branch: Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps Service Country: United States Rank: Midshipmen fourth-class 2005 to 2006 http://www.marquette.edu/rotc/navy/ Awards Eagle Scout 2004-08 Highest rank achievable in the Boy Scouts of America. Groups Boy Scouts of America April 1998 to November 2005 - - Obtained education through years of diverse training to become a leader.  - - Utilized leadership positions and abilities to teach others.  - - Planned and completed a 1000+ man-hour project to benefit the community.  HONORS: Eagle Scout: highest rank achievable in the Boy Scouts of America (August 2004)