Sr. Systems Administrator Sr. <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Dallas, TX I am an insightful analyst able to communicate effectively with both end users and leadership through professional communication, both verbally and in writing. I have a high level of attention to detail while also providing the ability to explain complex situations and technical concepts in easy to understand and follow language to end users. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Systems Administrator Buchanan Technologies - Dallas, TX March 2015 to Present I am part of the Buchanan Technologies managed services team providing support to Airbus Helicopters. My primary job is providing infrastructure architecture and administration after a recent merger to bring the company in line with their corporate parent’s IT standards.    Responsibilities include;  • Exchange 2010 design and implementation  • Server 2003 to Server 2008 R2 Migration  • Physical Server to Virtual Server migration using VMware 5.5  • Microsoft System Center 2012 R2 Design and Implementation to work across 3 US based sites and 3 International Sites  • Bluecoat Proxy Design and Administration Systems Administrator Dallas Independent School District - Dallas, TX March 2014 to September 2014 My primary focus was the design and implementation of System Center 2012R2 to meet the need to inventory hardware/software, push software packages/updates, and maintain government compliance.    Responsibilities included:  • Implement and maintain enterprise level products, including hardware and software components  • Work with release and change management processes to comply with DISD standards   • Coordinate, schedule, test, implement and document application upgrades, distribution of patches in order to efficiently deploy applications, and remain on current levels of software utilized by DISD Systems Administrator Twin City Fan Companies, Ltd. - Minneapolis-Saint Paul, MN October 2011 to August 2014 I worked with a small team responsible for 1000+ employees covering all facets of day to day infrastructure, planning/implementing IT strategies, development of improved IT policies, and project management for projects that I was leading.    Responsibilities included;  • Advanced planning for hardware and software deployments  • Windows Server 2008R2 and 2012 implementation and administration  • VMware 5 administration  • SolidWorks Enterprise Product Data Management administration  • Websense Proxy and web filtering administration Skills Microsoft System Center 2012 (4 years), Windows Server 2008 (5 years), Vmware (3 years), Solidworks (2 years), System Administration (6 years), Systems Integration (3 years), Information Technology (8 years), Information Architecture (5 years), Powershell (3 years), Project Management (2 years), Exchange Server (4 years), Active Directory (6 years), VOIP (2 years), SQL (1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/robbmiller2 Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) August 2013 to August 2016 Microsoft System Center 2012 CCNA July 2016 to July 2019