Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - ZF Group, LLC Marysville, MI Combine a passion for all things technological and keeping those technologies secure with a strong systems administrator background in complex research and analysis and project management. Experience working on large-scale and medium-scale projects for both private and public-sector levels: knowledge of HIPAA and NIST 800 publications.  Creative problem solver with a strong work ethic and demonstrated ability to balance multiple priorities and meet all deadlines. Adept at applying technical skills that include system administration and network compliance. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator ZF Group, LLC - Livonia, MI September 2015 to Present Network Architecture.  ? Administer 6 locations in Michigan. Responsible for 11 labs.  ? Build and supported 237 custom rack mount computers for ABS, FBE, IBC, Problem Solving.    NVH labs, for the purposes of testing different levels of autonomous Policy Analysis.  driving and braking conditions.  ? Hardening of Operating Systems for Defense in Depth security approach. Compliance Analysis.  ? Responsible for patching and anti-virus updates for all labs in Livonia. Project Management.  ? Create detailed documentation of all the labs and applications that they  run. NIST 800 Series.  ? Troubleshoot and resolve network issues that were impeding accurate test  HIPAA.  results.    McKesson Pharmaceuticals on behalf of LeadIT, Livonia, MI - Server Migration Specialist (contract part-time) Education Masters in Information Assurance in Information Assurance University of Detroit Mercy - Detroit, MI August 2017 to August 2018 B.Sc in Information Technology and Security Baker College of Port - Port Huron, MI January 2005 to December 2007 Military Service Branch: Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: E-1 April 1988 to March 1989 Security Police Officer