Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Raleigh, NC Dedicated and qualified Network Administrator with team and division leading experience. Capable of working in groups or individually to complete assigned tasks whether simple or complex. Comfortable under pressure and in time-sensitive situations. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator U.S. Marine Corps - San Diego, CA August 2015 to September 2018 • Completed CompTIA Security+ Certification.  • Worked as a Systems Engineer/Network Administrator for 3+ years.  • Implemented server maintenance and security through updates, backups, security implementations, policy creation and enforcement, and end user asset configuration and updates.  • Managed the imaging, updating, policy implementation, and on-site troubleshooting and repair of a 600+ user networked infrastructure.  • Installed, modified and set policies for end user software, hardware, and networking capabilities.  • Spoke in groups or lead discussions, whether written or unguided, about task and job-related topics in any environment.  • Capable of bridging the important information gap between employees and Systems Engineers through relatable explanation of issues and to-the-point responses thus removing the confusion and often upsetting misinterpretation of information.  • Trained all new staff to successfully complete their assigned duties and verified the successful completion of their work.  • Designed a structured training schedule for staff to maximize situational knowledge of tasks as they are assigned. Education U.S. Marine Corps Aviation Logistics Tactical Information Specialist Training January 2016 to November 2016 Skills System Administrator, Active Directory, Vmware, Linux Administrator, Cisco/Alcatel Switches, Microsoft Office Suite (including Outlook), Windows Server, Sharepoint, McAfee Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Service Country: United States Rank: Corporal August 2015 to September 2018 Network Administrator holding position of Quality Assurance Inspector within the Network Security Division. Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+