Sr Systems Administrator Sr <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr Systems Administrator - Fannie Mae Herndon, VA System Center Configuration Manager with 5 years of experience installing, supporting and maintaining servers/other computer systems and planning for responding to service outages and interruptions to network operations. Administer server-based networked systems, distributed applications, network storage, messaging and application monitoring and applications in garrison and at deployed locations. Security updates/Patch deployment through SCCM Server. Report generation and resolving the issues based on reports.    • SCCM 2012, SCCM1511, SCCM 1606 support which includes troubleshooting SCCM infrastructure issues, backups and monitoring.  • SCCM 1511 In-Place Upgrade or Migration for windows 7/8.0/8.1 to Windows 10  • SCCM 2007/ SCCM 2012 for Software Deployment and Patch Management.  • Currently working on SCCM 2012 Migration project.  • Experience in giving 3rd level escalation support for App Deployment, Active Directory.  • Troubleshooting and Deploying Microsoft Products, such as Windows 2000, Windows XP, Windows  • Centre Programs such as SCCM, SCOM, Forefront Client Security, Forefront  • Endpoint Protection 2010, 2012, Microsoft Communications Server 2007 R2, Microsoft Lync  • Software Deployment Process Knowledge on SCCM with Good knowledge on Mass Software Distribution, Collection Creation and Managing Advertisements  • Complete understanding of SCCM hierarchy including Central Site, Child Primary Site, Secondary Site and knowledge on how data is processed and replicated in a multi-tier architecture.  • Software distribution Creating Packages and Collections.  • Maintaining SCCM Patch activities. Working towards Non-Compliance SCCM machines.  • Experience in implementation, troubleshooting of SMS 2003, SCCM 2007  • Experience in Client side and Server side supporting role and Active Directory Enterprise Administrator.  • Excellent communication and documentation skills  • Troubleshooting/Problem solving skills and providing Technical Support.  • Quick learner, highly motivated, results oriented, and enthusiastic team player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Systems Administrator Fannie Mae - Herndon, VA January 2016 to Present Role: Operations Support and Projects Execution  Project Duration: Jan 2016 to Till date.    Responsibilities:  • Software distribution via CM2012  • Strong skills in CM 2012 server installation, configuration & Maintenance.  • Troubleshooting SCCM client installations and having Experience with Windows Server operating systems (2012 R2).  • Having knowledge on operating system image deployment (OSD).  • Specialization in installation and configuration of Windows 2008 and Windows Patch management via WSUS  • Configuring Site boundaries and the Distribution points in the hierarchy.  • Generating various kinds of reports from SQL Server Database.  • Software distribution -Creating the collections, MSI Packages & Applications, Programs & Advertisement for Distributing Client's standard applications.  • Creating and implementing Baselines and Configuration Items.  • Patch management -Patch deployments and testing and also configuration and run through checklist for any patch deployments. Security & office patches management using SCCM.  • Good experience on software metering, reporting.  • Maintain SCCM site systems like Management Point, Software update point, Distribution Point, State Migration Point, etc.  • Backup Verification in CM2012 Primaries and Central.  • SCCM Health checks on daily basis.  • Monitoring the health state of all SCCM Servers & services running on those servers.  • Generating the Weekly & Monthly asset report of all the systems using SCCM.  • Troubleshooting server related issues.  • Troubleshooting Package distribution issues to the DP's.  • Weekly reports to the Customers.  Environment:  SMS 2003, SCCM 2007 / Microsoft SCCM 2012, CM2012, MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint, MS-Project, MS SharePoint, Windows Server 2000, 2003, 2008/2008 R2/2012 Systems Administrator TATA Consultancy Services - Chennai, Tamil Nadu July 2013 to December 2014 Role: Operations Support and Projects Execution  Project Duration: July 2013 to Dec 2014    Responsibilities:  • Installing and configuring new software through SCCM 2007  • Installing SCCM 2007 clients using client push installation method.  • Managing and Maintaining SCCM 2007 collections and packages.  • Resolving issues related to SCCM client installation.  • Involvement in mentoring and taking knowledge transfer sessions for new team members.  • Responsible for Inventory (Hardware & Software), Software Metering.  • Responsible for Software Distribution (Deploying softwares, scripts, batch files, etc)  • Responsible for Software Updates Management (Deploying software updates to the machines in domain and workgroup environments)  • Checking site server status.  • Checking configuration Manager 2007 site system inboxes for backlogs.  • Checking site System Status.  • SCCM Operations Persons must be able to do the following on a weekly basis.  • Verify that predefined maintenance tasks scheduled to run weekly are running successfully.  • Delete unnecessary files from site systems  • Checking the site database size and verify that there is enough available disk space on the site database server to allow the site database to grow.  • Responsible for creation and management of custom collections.  • Responsible for Executing and Modifying Queries, Reports in SCCM.  • Responsible for Clients deployment, health check and remediation.  • Resolving issues related to Software Distribution, Software updates Deployment, Software Inventory or other SCCM client issues as and when required.  Environment:  SMS 2003, SCCM 2007, MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint, MS-Project, MS SharePoint, Windows Server 2000, 2003, 2008 Systems Administrator AXA Life - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2012 to June 2013 Responsibilities:  • Expertise on System centre Configuration Manager Package creation, package distribution, troubleshooting client side issues and administration.  • Thorough knowledge of SCCM 2007 SCCM Administrator Console, Remote tools, Software Distribution, Inventory, Software Metering, SCCM Server components, SCCM hierarchies and OSD (Operating System Deployment).  • Complete understanding of SCCM hierarchy including Central Site, Child Primary Site, Secondary Site and knowledge on how data is processed and replicated in a multi-tier architecture.  • Having good experience in System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM 2007, and Systems Management Server (SMS) 2003.  • Creating collections in SCCM, Adding applications to SCCM console , Creating Adverts in SCCM 2007  Familiarity with SCCM distribution points, Application deployment troubleshooting.  • Verity that all packages distributed the prior day have successfully reached the targeted DP.  • Verify that predefined SCCM maintenance tasks are running successfully.  • Knowledge of Software Deployment using SMS 2003 and SCCM 2007.  • Installing SCCM clients with Client-Push.  • Fallback Status Point in Configuration Manager.  • Patches deployment through SCCM SUP role.  • Sound knowledge on SCCM client centre tool and MP trouble shooter.  • Knowledge of Windows Operating Systems and their components.  • Knowledgeable in security patch processes and Software Updates.  • Provide operational support and troubleshooting of system infrastructures.  • Desired Configuration Management (DCM).  Environment:  SMS 2003, SCCM 2007, MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint, MS-Project, MS SharePoint, Windows Server 2000, 2003, 2008 Systems Administrator NTPC - Chennai, Tamil Nadu April 2011 to April 2012 Responsibilities:  • knowledge on SCCM functionalities including Software Deployments, Software Updates Management, OS Deployment, Asset Intelligence, Desired Configuration Manager and Reporting  • SCCM Site Server configuration & troubleshooting.  • SCCM Secondary site server configuration and troubleshooting.  • Experience in Operating System/Office systems, Deployment, Migration  • Updating patches for Servers & Workstations  • And manage Patch Testing and Patch Deployment change and Release Process  • Patch Management and Software Distribution Management process using maintenance-window  • Client health Monitoring with Client Status Reporting  • Distributing software with MSI and non MSI technologies  • Implemented SQL Server Reporting Services Point and integrated the SCCM Reports  • Utilizing SQL Reporting Services in Configuration Manager 2007 R2  • Creating software packages for distribution.  • Trouble Shooting on SCCM Distribution failures and Validating Packaged Applications for Deployment Readiness  • Discover client machines in network  • Work within and together with a highly motivated team  • Excellent analytical and problem solving skills  • Experience in both process and solution analysis.  • Good understanding of active Directory, DHCP, DNS  • Sound technical knowledge on Win2k3/Win2K8 server administration.  Environment:  SMS 2003, Microsoft SCCM 2007, MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint, MS-Project, MS SharePoint, Windows Server 2000, 2003, 2008 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Administration, maintenance and support of System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM) 2012.  • Deployment of SCCM and SCOM client to the IT infrastructure.  • Experience with SMS/SCCM, WSUS SQLServers.  • Experience with Migration of Servers from one domain to another.  • Providing technical assistance to customers and junior technicians.  • Software Configuration: Custom setup of most commercial software packages.  • PC and Component level troubleshooting and repair. Experience in implementation, troubleshooting of SMS 2003, SCCM 2007  • Raising bug for R & D team if we find any new issue in environment.  • System Centre Configuration Manager (SCCM 2012) level 3 Support.  • Client side and Server side supporting role  • Good communication and documentation skills  • Ability to gather information to solve a specific issue  • Document and implement new solutions on specific issues.