Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Draper, UT Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator iRemote Computer Services - Draper, UT March 2016 to Present ? Organized and managed user and computer objects in Active  Directory Administrative Center into appropriate organizational unit  structure, maintaining compliance and security for multiple domains    ? Established group policies to automate network drive mapping and  printer installation organization-wide, increasing efficiency and  reliability over legacy scripts    ? Ensured positive health of Storage Area Network and compute  servers, maintaining uptime of organization systems and services    ? Automated daily backup solution for daily, weekly, and monthly  backups, facilitating disaster recovery and boosting restoration time  to meet Recovery Time Objective    ? Spearheaded migration to Microsoft Office 365, providing a single  point of access to critical business applications and reducing  administrative overhead    ? Meticulously wrote technical documentation and created network  diagram, providing continuity to newly on-boarded systems  administration staff.    ? Performed domain controller migration to Windows Server 2016,  augmenting availability of domain resources and optimizing uptime  of domain services through redundancy    ? Managed virtualized server compute and storage, maximizing  resource use efficiency    ? Effectuated developer and security operations for lab and production  web server environments, ensuring confidentiality, integrity, and  availability of web applications and services    ? Coded security application to whitelist executables, and remove user  modifications to operating system, enforcing company computer and  network use policy Education Some college Skills Veeam (2 years), Amazon Web Services (3 years), Microsoft Azure (Less than 1 year), Google Compute Engine (2 years), Linode (3 years), Digital Ocean (3 years), Arch Linux (6 years), Elementary OS (1 year), Mac OS X (Less than 1 year), Windows 95 - Windows 10 (10+ years), Windows Server 2012 (2 years), Windows Server 2012 r2 (2 years), WIndows Server 2016 (2 years), Cent OS (Less than 1 year), Debian (6 years), Ubuntu (6 years), Active Directory Administrative Center (2 years), Active Directory Users And Computers (2 years), Apache2 (10+ years), Group Policy (2 years), Exchange Server Manager (1 year), Internet Information Services (1 year), Powershell (1 year), Windows Server Manager (2 years), Hyper-V (Less than 1 year), VirtualBox (2 years), VMware (Less than 1 year) Links https://rusco.me