Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Support Technician Levittown, PA Ambitious problem-solving developer who is continually boosting a powerful set of technology skills. Enjoys working with personnel in all areas of the company to help boost profits and improve opportunities. Seeking a position that requires participation in IT technical support, assisting and providing the best experience for clients via remote assistance or on-site, and developing websites. Experienced in setting up computers, resolving technical issues, installing / managing software and offering remote/on-site support. Knowledgeable and experienced as an Desktop / IT support technician and experience as an system administration. Experience in Windows, Linux, and macOS environments, and using virtual machines. Solution-driven professional excelling in a highly collaborative work environment, finding solutions to challenges and focused on the customer. Knowledge in using Active Directory, Windows SCCM, Office 365, and Microsoft Exchange. I enjoy directly working with employees and customers, and availing with any type of IT technical support problems. I've always been a driven problem solver, with trial and error, and always making sure the problem is resolved in the end. Exceeding in customer analysis and connection driven skills. Proven experience developing consumer-focused web sites using HTML, CSS, PHP, SQL, and JavaScript. Building products for desktop, phone and mobile app users, meeting the highest standards for web design, user experience, best practices, usability and speed. Responding to challenges by designing and developing solutions and building web applications aligned to the customer's services. Translating solutions into code and working across many different APIs, third-party integrations and databases.    Website: http://karkut.me    Resume PDF: http://karkut.me/tkarkutresume.pdf Work Experience Systems Administrator Tranan Executive Search - Levittown, PA August 2016 to December 2018 Responsible for:    • Setup a network of PCs, and aiding employees with technical issues    • Managed software support and availing employees with practical use of those applications and, resolving PC/software issues.   • Oversaw troubleshooting of technical issues to solve problems within reasonable timeframe.   • Assisted employees with PC technical support on-site, and clients via phone, email, and remotely.  • Setup a network of PCs using Active Directory, and using Group Policy editor.    • Optimized web assets/libraries for speed and performance.  • Developed the company website using Photoshop and by converting designs to an HTML responsive site.  • Implemented Google Campaigns and SEOs.  • Utilized programming capabilities in PHP, SQL and JavaScript and other libraries as needed. Education Associate's Degree in Computer Science Bucks County Community College - Newtown, PA 2018 to 2020 Pennsylvania Leadership Charter School - West Chester, PA 2018 Neshaminy High School - Langhorne, PA 2016 Skills IT Specialist (4 years), Desktop Support (4 years), Computer Repair (4 years), Network Support (4 years), Help Desk (4 years), Information Technology (4 years), Active Directory (2 years), Service Desk (2 years), Tech Support (4 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/trae-karkut-366702176/