Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Work Experience Systems Administrator Raytheon July 2009 to Present Provided extensive systems administration support for Windows Server 2008; Windows 7; HP/IBM hardware (i.e. servers, workstations RAIDS, and thin clients); SQL Server; Linux; and VMware. Responsible for Enterprise level administration of network services such as Active Directory, DNS, TCP/IP, DHCP and troubleshooting. Supported a varied range of tasking from break/fix support, supporting recurring operations functions, and new system upgrades such OS/application patches and upgrades. Performed daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity of all hardware, server resources, systems and key processes, reviewing system and application logs, and verified completion of scheduled jobs. Installed new / rebuilt existing servers, staged equipment, and configured hardware, peripherals, services, settings, storage, etc. Streamlined troubleshooting downtime through documenting and training colleagues/customers on solutions. Agency wide instructor for Analyst Notebook and Renoir visualization GOTS/COTS software. Education B.A. in Psychology, Political Science & International Studies McDaniel College 2007 to 2011 Skills MS Windows, MS Office, Linux, UNIX, Mac, VMware, Active Directory, MS Virtual Server, TCP/IP networking, VNC, SSH, FTP, LVM, C++, Analyst's Notebook, Renoir, Visualization software, Army Global Command and Control System, AMPS, Falcon View, iPAC, CFPS, Lotus Notes, HP OpenView, ClearQuest, ClearCase, Track-IT, Remedy, Adobe Photoshop, and Adobe Lightroom. Military Service Branch: Army National Guard Service Country: United States Rank: 1st Lieutenant July 2010 to Present Position: Aviation Platoon Leader    Directed the training, safety, administration, and communication activities at the upper management level for 56 personnel. Management of aviation aircraft/assets (approximately $50M) and 10 personnel. Successful with motivating and maximizing productivity and morale without financial incentives. Produced higher performance standards and enhanced productivity during a period of shrinking budgets. Liaison officer responsible for interfacing with government and civil organizations during crisis/disaster relief operations. Wrote a professional article on Middle East foreign policy and military strategy that was published in the FT. Rucker newspaper. Rated helicopter pilot in the UH-60 Blackhawk and UH-72 Lakota airframes. Additional Information Top Secret/SCI with Full Scope Polygraph