Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator at Illiana Financial Credit Union Palos Hills, IL Work Experience Systems Administrator Illiana Financial Credit Union - Calumet City, IL April 2008 to Present • Administering Microsoft Windows Servers (Active Directory), Microsoft Workstations, and other supporting devices for 50+ users  • Performing user account creation, configuration, and deletion within Active Directory  • Creation and maintenance of group policies in accordance with set guidelines  • Supervising back up and disaster recovery operations on critical financial system and Windows servers  • Working with vendors to implement new solutions and troubleshoot existing ones  • Scheduling and implementing planned and unplanned system updates  • Updating and maintaining company intranet    Selected Contributions:   ? Led and assisted in staff technology training covering such topics as Microsoft Office suite and Cisco VOIP phones.    ? Researched and implemented Spark, an open source XMPP instant messaging client, which greatly improved inter-office communications at no additional cost to the company.    ? Participated in email server migration from Exchange 2000 to Exchange 2007 resulting in minimal service interruption and increased organizational security.    ? Participated in virtualization of server infrastructure including the set-up and maintenance of a disaster recovery site. This greatly improved redundancy and organizational disaster preparedness.    ? Assisted in the set-up and configuration of Nagios, an open source infrastructure monitoring program, including the research and installation of software allowing it to more efficiently monitor Windows servers. This increased IT response time to service outages and allowed the IT staff to be more proactive in identifying potential issues. Education B.S. in Technical Management DeVry University - Tinley Park, IL March 2008 B.S. in Biology Missouri Southern State University - Joplin, MO May 2003 Skills Windows XP/Vista/7, Windows Server 2000/2003/2008, Ubuntu Server, VMware vSphere, MS Office, Exchange 2000/2007, Active Directory, Group Policy, Sharepoint, Cisco CallManager, Backup Exec