Quality Assurance Technician Quality Assurance Technician Software engineer Bellevue, WA Work Experience Quality Assurance Technician IPGARD - Las Vegas, NV May 2019 to July 2019 Tested and programmed KVM switches, verifying quality and identifying flaws. Ensuring products meet all standards and guidelines before impacting consumers. Recorded and reported all defect details and maintained documentation regarding software and application alterations. Persistent task and time management to fulfil client requests per internal policies and customer expectations. Reported to management for any required change in protocols or needs. Systems Support Analyst The Energy Authority - Bellevue, WA July 2018 to October 2018 Designed, developed, and tested interfaces and upgrades in existing Windows 10 Pro and Windows Server environments using PowerShell 10, SQL, and MS Office 365; entry level usage of Linux and UNIX code specialization, and specialization in Mac IOS. Managed Access Control Policies using AD by creating users and computers and assigning them to groups on both the internal and external networks. Performed Tier 1 ticket processing of both hardware and software for 251+ employees, escalating those with quantifiers as appropriate.  Maintained 100+ devices and batteries in inventory and asset tracking through SharePoint and regular testing of equipment while appropriately disposing as per ISO/IEC 27000.  While working as an Information Technician, executed contingency based Disaster Recovery plans consisting of safe and swift relocation of personnel, reimplementation of specialized software on backup devices, and guaranteed continual generation of revenue with miniscule down time. Contact Representative Department of Treasury - Seattle, WA November 2017 to June 2018 Received and verified through the process of disclosure 50+ incoming calls daily addressing confidential individual and business taxpayer account information. Handled incoming documents via FAX/EFAX and issued various correspondences while managing 10+ applications with elevated security provisions. Worked through difficult subjects and frustrated callers, explained timeframes and processing delays as needed. Customer Service Representative Alaska Marine Lines - Seattle, WA April 2015 to January 2016 Customer interactions via phone, email and fax while managing and maintaining office. Distributed incoming mail and prepared outgoing mail while recording shipping documents and organizing customer invoices. Traffic Administrator Fastenal - Lakewood, WA October 2014 to April 2015 Worked with a team to prepare shipping documentation, process tolls, warehousing and maintenance items including packing lists, bills of lading, certification reports and export documents. Ran reports for routine freight cost analysis, operational and month-end closing requirements to assist Managers. North Fort Shop Store Associate AAFES, Joint Base Lewis-McCord, WA November 2012 to June 2014 Provided excellent service to customers while operating on an independent Point of Service (POS) machine and handling cash. Stocked shelves, maintained floor displays, unpacked boxes and hung merchandise displays. Conducted sales inventories and assisted with loss control. Education Master of Science in Computer Engineering Champlain College - Burlington, VT December 2020 Bachelor of Science in Information Technology University of Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ July 2014 Cert. in Information Technology User Support Community College of Allegheny County - Pittsburgh, PA June 2009 Cert. in Software Development Community College of Allegheny County - Pittsburgh, PA June 2009 Skills Excel (1 year), Quality Assurance, Quality Control, Word (1 year), Inventory, Access (1 year), Java (1 year), Office 365 (1 year), fast learner, Powerpoint (1 year), Publisher (1 year), Office 2016 (1 year), C++ (1 year), C# (1 year), SQL (1 year), Management (4 years), Technical Support (2 years), Technical Writing (1 year), Customer Service Representative (10+ years) Assessments Problem Solving — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/2t5vtmgqmdgwjqf2 Technical Support — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/7w-htuzahdxgttws CRM Skills with Salesforce — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to demonstrate a knowledge of Salesforce objects, fields, and processes. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dkkoh9sarur3qwnq Intermediate Word Processing with Microsoft Word — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of intermediate Microsoft Word techniques including the use of formatting, Track Changes, and Comments. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/g-shy8fv4zh8phng Project Management Skills: Budgeting — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to manage project budgets by appropriately allocating and monitoring financial resources. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ju8y6rpzqzar4gkp Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.