Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Escondido, CA Motivated, well-organized IT professional with a stellar work ethic and a successful 12-year track record of providing IT services including systems administration, network administration, and on-call tech support with extensive experience supporting server virtualization, PfSense, PBX in a Flash, Salesforce, Active Directory, and Google Apps. I take pride in fast, efficient, and competent service.    Flexible and versatile - able to maintain a sense of humor under pressure. Poised and competent with demonstrated ability to communicate effectively and professionally. Excellent team-player skills. Work Experience Systems Administrator Warrior Custom Golf - Irvine, CA February 2013 to April 2015 ADMINISTRATION SERVICES  ? User administration via Active Directory and Google Apps. Set up user accounts, e-mail accounts and network sharing with with properly configured access rights.  ? Server Set up and Administration: Virtualization, IIS, LAMP, nginx, PBX.  ? Set up and maintain Firewall security using PfSense technology.  ? PBX In A Flash. Maintain up to date list of users and configure PBX server and clients.  ? Designed, set up and deployed internal and external network for 14 employee office including e-mail, QuickBooks, and IIS servers.  ? Set up and maintain users on osTicket support ticketing system.    CUSTOMER SERVICE/TECH SUPPORT/PROBLEM SOLVING  ? Strong Data Recovery skills. Deployed Test Disk and PhotoRec to recover 800GB worth of data from a partially encrypted drive that was missing the partition table.  ? Daily support of Salesforce software and hardware. Extensive experience supporting Java for Salesforce.  ? Daily maintenance of shipping computers, barcode scanners, and scales. (USPS, UPS, FedEx, DHL, MalvernSys)  ? User Restriction via PfSense: block employees from accessing non-work related websites.  ? Support users and computer issues via osTicket.  ? Extensive and plentiful experience maintaining and troubleshooting PC and Mac OS hardware. Excellent data transfer and backup skills using Clonezilla and Puppy Linux.    For Education and Work History, please see my LinkedIn Profile  https://www.linkedin.com/in/dbenjacob Additional Information Skills Summary    ? User Administration  ? Windows Expert  ? Linux Competency  ? Printer Support    ? Virtualization  ? Mac OS X Expert  ? Support Ticketing  ? Tech Support    ? Network Administration  ? PBX Administration  ? Firewall Security  ? PC Hardware Repair