Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Carlsbad, NM Though I do not have a degree, since the Navy I have pursued hands on experience and countless certifications that I felt were relevant to the career I was pursuing. As my record shows even to date I have been offered positions that usually require a bachelor or master degree. I believe I meet any requirements including professional communication skills. Work Experience Systems Administrator Telex Computer Products - Carlsbad, NM 1984 to 1988 From 1988 to 1998 I was the data systems manager and HR manager for a mining company in Carlsbad NM. From 1999 to 2001 I worked as a data systems engineer for a telecom company Valor in Carlsbad NM. I was Systems Administrator for the Carlsbad Municipal School District for 12 years from 2001 to 2013, then Director of IT for the City of Carlsbad NM to present.  • With the experience comes many certifications (ISC)2 CISSP, Comp/TIA Network+, Server+, Security+, IT Project Management+, MCSP Server2008, and other certifications and education that add to technology skills as well as management skills.  I have designed and implemented infrastructure systems in hybrid forms that have saved money, manpower and time: enlisted and hired talented technicians through careful and thorough interviews: have developed IT usage policy for the organization as well as policy for SLA (Service Level Agreements) with our vendors and contractors. Built secure networks protecting both internal data assets and cloud based assets from cyber-attacks and malware: worked with software development to insure security is built into the design of the final product. Produced highly effective Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery plans for government audit standards: took responsibility for the bottom line as a Director and project manager for the City of Carlsbad.  If you have questions or would like to schedule an interview, please contact me by phone at 575.361.2022 or by email at irishsam@hotmail.com. I have good longevity over the years and I am confident that my references (if we get to that point) will be to your satisfaction.    514 N. Lake St.  Carlsbad, NM 88220  September 11, 2017 Education High school or equivalent Skills PM, SDLC Assessments Management & Leadership Skills: Planning & Execution — Familiar May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to effectively plan and manage resources to accomplish organizational goals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/gzf6hl2mku8mhmfm Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.