Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer Work Experience Systems Engineer Daimler Trucking North America November 2018 to April 2019 1. Focused on writing Puppet code for configuration management for different server systems: Windows Server 2018, 2102r2, 2016; RHEL, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, AIX. Daily code reviews and enforcement of standards for daily ongoing project commits using Github and Gitlab. Use of Gitlab for Continuous Integration, and deployment of Infrastructure as Code services and systems.  2. Use of Powershell to run scripts and pull information from virtualized systems (VMware, VRealize and VCommander), deployment and pre-configuration of new virtual systems.  Building, deployment and monitoring of cloud systems using Docker, Docker Swarm and Kubernetes. Creation of dockerfiles needed by developers, integration of Kubernetes clusters in a hybrid cloud environment. Monitoring health of servers using various server information probes (ELK, Splunk, VCommander). Systems Administrator I - Build Team Webster University March 2017 to May 2018 3. Setup and configuration of VMWare VDI Infrastructure and Images built on Nutanix and Commvault architecture. Create Windows 10 and 7 base images, and desktop pools for staff, students and users at extended sites (includes military bases), Injectable Application Volumes onto base image. Customization of deployed user environment using VMWare UEM, create Windows 10 and 7 Student and Staff Desktop Pools, creation of injectable application volumes onto base image.  4. Software and License deployment and packaging. Creation of .msi packages, batch files, and use of LANDesk for scheduling regular updates, deploying patches and applications. Creation of documentation for Tier 2 technicians to follow for installation and troubleshooting of software.  5. Account management using Active Directory, FIM and MIM on Windows Server 2008 R2, O365, Sharepoint and Powershell. Asset Management and access using Google Admin Console and Google Cloud Platform. Antivirus, anti-spyware protection and handling anti-phishing incidents with users. Windows profile repair, data recovery, build of new systems and services for users.  6. Customization of appearance, user account permissions, and content of Windows 7 and 10 images from scratch for organizational use. Edits registry, event/task management, firewall policies to management specifications. Creation and management of Active Directory (AD) and Group policies (GPO) to meet specified use cases. Daily use of Windows Server 2008 and 2012 R2. Assists with Desktop Support on an as-needed basis Application Engineer I - Web Ops Team TierPoint December 2016 to March 2017 1. Tier III Support in an Enterprise-level, Network Operating Center. Responsible for all issues related to installation, configuration, maintenance and proactive monitoring of all client hosted servers (Web, Application, Terminal Server, VMware VDI hosts, Exchange, MySQL, and Domain Controller for Active Directory)  2. Daily use of VMware ESXi - creation, configuration, task automation/scripting (Powershell, and Bash scripting), deployment of Windows (7, 8/8.1, 10, Server 2003, Server 2008, Server 2012 R2) and Red Hat Linux Servers  3. Daily use of Windows Server 2008 and 2012 R2 & Windows IIS, and Linux Apache for hosted web site management; troubleshooting of issues with performance and new client deployments  4. Use of Riverbed/Brocade and F5 virtual traffic managers (vTMs) for routing, monitoring and security  5. Use of monitoring tools and scripts to run reports of server and user account resource utilization; respond to alerts from monitoring software, emails and calls from Tier II Support for on-call rotation  6. Apply networking knowledge to load balancing, set up and modification of client server organization. Pull log files and resource utilization records to generate reports to present to clients, advise them on future needs  7. Consult on decommission of unnecessary services, and creation of new services based on clients' needs  8. Occasional troubleshooting of O365, Exchange Server and Active Directory issues and migrations as needed Desktop Support Specialist Rodgers-Townsend/DDB IT August 2016 to December 2016 1. Tier I, Tier II, some Tier III support and sole IT and Administrator for office of 90+ users. Responsible for resolution of all Tier I and II software and hardware issues.  2. OS Imaging and Installation for OS X and Windows computers; Software installation and patching; routinely used DeployStudio for OS imaging/patching and software deployments  3. Active Directory, Office365, Mac OS X and Windows Account creation and Administration  4. Hands-on Hardware installations for Desktops, Rack-mounted Servers, Cisco IP Phones and Peripherals  5. Use and maintenance of local SAN, participated in restructuring of FTP servers. Assisted users with VPN  6. Handled 3rd Party Hardware Repairs, Maintenance and Service Calls for MFP/Copiers, Procurement/Orders, Inventory management, and participated in yearly Budget proposals  7. Utilized strong time-management and prioritization skills with short-term issues and long-term projects Service Desk Analyst Intelliteach April 2015 to August 2016 1. Used Microsoft desktop and server systems, MS Exchange, Active Directory, and Terminal servers  2. Utilized Networking knowledge: TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, VLANs, Proxy, VPNs, Firewalls and Wireless  3. Utilized VDIs - VMware Horizon Admin, Citrix, SCCM, LanDesk, for Thin Clients and Laptop connections  4. Used Technical Knowledge to troubleshoot issues with Applications, Network and Server connectivity  5. Supported iPhones, iPads, Tablet PCs, MobileIron, RSA token and Two-factor Authentication Support  6. General Support for Windows 7, 8, 10, Mac OSX, iPhone/iPad iOS, MS Office, Hardware and Peripherals Junior Developer SameGrain, Inc - Baltimore, MD September 2014 to February 2015 at; daily scrums using Skype and Google Hangouts  1. Documented and wrote new code using Python, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS for Web Applications and Django REST API in an agile development environment  2. Programmed using Python 2.7.x and Django, JavaScript, Backbone.js and PostgreSQL in a Linux command line and GUI environments to implement solutions  3. Routinely worked with dictionary keys, and tuples, to handle user account information (CSVs) and authentication, using Django Admin and JavaScript.  4. Wrote and modified SQL stored procedures to collect and store account information from the front-end UI, and keep track of potential failures in code operations.  5. Diagnosed logical errors and performance issues in code, communicated and implemented solutions in an Agile team setting  6. Used Linux client and server environments, some Linux and Unix BASH scripting, command line, and GitHub command line  7. Familiar with using and installing Linux packages in virtual and server environments; exposure to writing Linux BASH shell scripts  8. Interacted with Python regular expressions and Perl scripts for text formatting, scraping and automation Biotechnology Lab Associate New Leaf Symbiotics - St. Louis, MO June 2013 to November 2013 1. Conducted isolation and cultivation of unique bacterial strains in GLP, sterile lab conditions  2. Created, filed, maintained documentation system of characteristics and behavior of strains  3. Produced needed daily and weekly consumable supplies to changing specifications  4. Harvested fresh plant samples from greenhouse, weighed and recorded detailed records on samples Education Engineering Science Saint Louis Community College January 2014 to May 2016 Finished degree in Biotechnology Program Saint Louis Community College January 2012 to December 2013 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, BACKBONE, LANDESK, NETWORK TROUBLESHOOTING, VMWARE, Linux, SCCM, DNS, System Administrator, AWS