Linux Systems Administrator Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Linux Systems Administrator - Two Farms Inc Hanover, MD Innovative, fast learner, people person and dedicated Linux System Administrator seeking to utilize and optimize my skills and experience in a challenging IT environment. Specialized in systems building, monitoring, analyzing, diagnosing, technical support, testing, security implementation and maintaining datacenter infrastructures such as data protection technologies and data storage. Excellent communicator with exceptional technical support to end-user. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Linux Systems Administrator Two Farms Inc - Baltimore, MD April 2017 to Present Duties:  • Create virtual machines using VMware 5.x and 6.x  • Install and maintain security patches on development, test and production environments.  • Proficient in Red Hat 5.x/6.x/7.x and Centos 5.x/6.x/7.x  • Strong Understanding in TCP/IP, DNS, HTTP(HTTPS), FTP, NFS, NTP and SSH  • Understanding in SELinux, TCP wrapper, Iptables and Firewalls.  • Strong troubleshooting and analytical skills.  • Take complete ownership of the health and functionality of the systems.  • Provide technical support to developers during deployment.  • Using Red Hat Satellite to help facilitate installation and update packages.  • Able to review system and application logs to investigate and diagnose critical issues.  • Manage more than 2,000 servers.  • Create disk partition; make and manage file system as well as creating LVMs.  • Work closely with customers to resolve critical issues in timely manner.  • Manage system routine backups, scheduling jobs, enables cron jobs, enabling system logging and network logging of server for maintenance.  • Participate in routine upgrading (patching) of Linux systems.  • Participate in new systems build and deployments.  • Works with Oracle DBA to prepare the system for Oracle installation by setting ulimit and kernel parameters.  • Responsible for adding, creating new users, groups and setup home directories and appropriate access restrictions to software and directories and files using access modes.  • Repair and recover from hardware or software failures. Coordinate and communicate with impacted constituencies.  • Present performance report to the appropriate body.  • Participates in monthly on call duties.  • Ticketing system -Service Now Linux System Administrator Automated Financial Systems - Exton, PA August 2015 to March 2017 Duties:  • Installed, design and configure Linux servers in the data center environment per line of business specifications.  • Created, change, and delete user accounts per request as necessary.  • Experienced in Virtualization (VMware).  • Proficient in Red Hat 5.x/6.x/7.x, Centos 5.x/6.x/7.x  • Working Knowledge on Installing, configuring, tweaking of HTTP, HTTPS and Proxy Server  • Monitored and troubleshoot system issues including storages/network related problems.  • Deployed Linux operating system patch.  • Administered user accounts and enhanced secure login.  • Strong Understanding in TCP/IP, DNS, FTP, NFS, NTP and SSH  • Server racking, Cabling and server built.  • Performed regular security hardening.  • Troubleshoot and resolved hardware and software problems by following documentation and by using appropriate diagnostic tools to provide solutions to customers.  • Changed permissions, ownership files and directories as well as maintaining password and assigning special permissions.  • Set up Linux route for two different subnets to commutate.  • Installed third party software like Trend Micro agent, Tripwire Axon agent.  • Created NFS shares using permanent mount and automount. Education BA in Economics Punjab University - Lahore, PK Skills Dns (3 years), Ftp (3 years), Linux (3 years), Network file system (3 years), Nfs (3 years), Linux Administrator, Redhat, System Admin, Vmware, System Administrator, Red Hat Certifications/Licenses Red Hat Certified System administrator June 2019 to June 2021