systems administrator <span class="hl">systems</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span> systems administrator - United States Navy Baltimore, MD To obtain a position utilizing my skills as an IT professional and systems administrator and to be an essential part of a dynamic workforce. Work Experience systems administrator United States Navy 2011 to Present from 2012 - present.  • Sole system administrator at Kandahar airfield for 2 months, supporting hundreds of users leveraging several end user hardware devices such as workstations, printers, and servers. Four months at Bagram Airfield working with a team of systems administrators supporting thousands of users and hundreds of workstations.  • Subject Matter Expert hand selected to perform end-user systems installations at multiple remote sites in tandem with a team of network engineers, including network infrastructure support, end user equipment installation/troubleshooting, and server upgrades, while always completing ahead of deadlines.  • Experience providing support to a wide variety of DOD customers.  • Involved with training new personnel and writing standard operating procedures, to include complex web browser and PKI certificate issues.  • Qualified in a short period of time to man a mission critical 24/7 service desk, assisting a wide variety of users with desktop application, hardware, and network issues.  • Extensive experience with detailed site and equipment documentation to include, Visio diagrams of floor plans and server racks, SSP updates, IP Matrixes, and Configuration Management.  Awards  • Joint Service Achievement Medal (2014)  • Navy Good Conduct Medal (2014)  • Written letter of commendation for service in Afghanistan. Additional Information • Possess Top Secret/SCI w/CI Poly clearance from 2012 to present.  • Three+ years' experience in systems administration of the Windows platform.  • Expert in Windows environment to include Windows XP, Vista, 7, Server 2003 and 2008, as well as their corresponding Office Suites.  • Network infrastructure experience to include copper and fiber termination.  • Experience with desktop virtualization to include VMware, V-Sphere, and Thin client machines as well as server virtualization.  • Expert in Active Directory, hardware and software troubleshooting, file transfers and printer/scanner installation and troubleshooting.  • 3 years' experience with Remedy and SM9 Incident Management  • Working knowledge of network protocols and troubleshooting.  • Willing to deploy or travel.