Database Administrator Database <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Houston, TX An Experienced ITIL Certified professional looking for career in IT Industry. Previous work experience includes working as Datacenter Analyst, End-User Customer support and Junior Database Administrator. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator HCL Technologies - Noida, Uttar Pradesh January 2008 to September 2008 GSI Commerce was responsible for managing the e-commerce website multiple fortune 500 companies. As part of the team, we were responsible for managing the Business Critical Database servers round the clock for our customers.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Worked as a Database administrator to maintain and manage the Critical Oracle databases.  ? Performance Management,  ? Database Backup management,  ? Resolving and fixing issues related to Database.  • Working on ITSM tickets to resolve issues, perform work orders Systems Analyst HCL Technologies - Noida, Uttar Pradesh July 2005 to December 2007 Datacenter Operations management included monitoring of systems using various tools like HPOVO, backup monitoring using Netbackup and BrightStor arcserv, data restoration for IT end users, Job scheduling and working with SAP Basis team and functional consultants. End User Transition Engineer HCL Technologies - San Jose, CA June 2007 to August 2007 As part of the project, the work involved helping end users update the mobile devices to use new mailing systems. This also involved fixing and updating the end user desktop/laptop systems.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Customer Interaction and Transition of project for a client.  • Responsible for smooth transition of end users systems to IT standards i.e. using correct software for end user email. USA Datacenter Analyst (AMD) HCL Technologies - Austin, TX June 2006 to August 2006 HCL was responsible for managing the Datacenter, compute servers as well as the collaboration systems. As part of the team, we were responsible for managing and maintaining the high available datacenter  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Working with vendors in coordinating hardware and software support  • Tape library Management and Tape management for the Critical applications.  • Monitoring backup, HPOVO, HP SIM, Remedy tickets, Education Seneca College - Markham, ON January 2012 to August 2012 Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering Electronics and Electrical Engineering College of Engineering - Roorkee, Uttarakhand 2001 to 2005 Additional Information Technical Skills  • Databases: Oracle 10g.  • ITSM using Remedy as well as ServiceNow.  • BMC Control-M, VMWare, Symantec Anti-Virus, Backup Netbackup, Brightstor Arc server.    • Operating Systems: Windows Desktop as well as Server, Linux  Interpersonal Skills  Strong interpersonal skills and excellent customer support. Strong written and oral communication skills.