Job Seeker Linthicum, MD Work Experience Tech USA - Millersville, MD October 2012 to March 2013 21108 - 410-729-4328  ? Created, moved, and maintained Microsoft exchange accounts, as well as standard domain accounts.  ? Remotely relocated accounts to correct servers for civilians and military members deploying inside and outside the continental US.  ? Created and reset voicemail passwords for users mentioned above. Eagle Alliance - Annapolis Junction, MD October 2011 to January 2012 2711 Technology Drive, Annapolis Junction MD 20701 - 410-479-9601  ? Remotely resolved software and profile issues through remote desktop assistance from a help desk. Tasks also included password resets, rebuilding profiles to software installs or OS upgrades  ? Provide IT technical support to a large, multi-site problems with access to networks, software issues, account and profile errors and recovery, hardware faults and upgrades from a single systems to a large scale network  ? Adhere to established processes and procedures set to maintain a safe and secure workplace  ? Escalate any out-of-scope tasking, technical problems or any other issues that could negatively affect the customer or their working environment or day-to-day duties  ? Troubleshoot any hardware of software problems either via Remote Desktop connection or onsite  ? Familiar with DRA - remote access tool and Active Directory systems administrator Exceptional Software Strategies INC September 2009 to August 2011 Assisted in upgrading corporate infrastructure to a new level of efficiency and security  ? Assisted in creating, monitoring, and maintaining a functioning service request database to improve organization and efficiency  ? Replaced/Upgraded all computers to more modern models to further improve stability and dependability to all users within the corporate infrastructure  ? Assisted in introducing a new, and more reliable anti-virus, improving integrity and security of corporate networks. Intelligent Decisions INC October 2008 to September 2009 Providing hardware support for Dell servers and desktops onsite  ? Installing, maintaining, and monitoring of physical security such as motion detectors, glass breaks, door contacts, cameras, keypads, and duress buttons Intelligent Decisions INC - Annapolis Junction, MD October 2008 to February 2009 2711 Technology Drive, Annapolis Junction MD 20701 - 443-479-9601  ? Remotely resolved software and profile issues through remote desktop assistance from a help desk. Tasks also included password resets, rebuilding profiles to software installs or OS upgrades  ? Provide IT technical support to a large, multi-site problems with access to networks, software issues, account and profile errors and recovery, hardware faults and upgrades from a single systems to a large scale network  ? Adhere to established processes and procedures set to maintain a safe and secure workplace  ? Escalate any out-of-scope tasking, technical problems or any other issues that could negatively affect the customer or their working environment or day-to-day duties  ? Troubleshoot any hardware of software problems either via Remote Desktop connection or onsite  ? Familiar with DRA - remote access tool and Active Directory Security Plus certified trough CompTIA Broad knowledge with the creation, upkeep, and replacing of desktops. Installing and updating software and hardware, assisting and supporting client s and users, and an average experience with servers and networking. Security Plus certified trough CompTIA. Education North County High School - Glen Burnie, MD