PC Technician PC Technician PC Technician - Collier County Sheriffs Office Lehigh Acres, FL Transitioned Data Systems Administrator US Marine to civilian workforce --Highly motivated to leverage years of achievements during my career to provide dedicated service as a Field Technician. Qualifications include an A+ certification; Consistent experience in Windows Server 2016, VMWare, ESXI, Active Directory; comprehensive field training; Extensive experience in configurations of Cisco Routers, Cisco Switches, and Networking architects; and leadership of over 30+ subordinates and Maintenance of equipment. Work Experience PC Technician Collier County Sheriffs Office - Naples, FL February 2019 to Present responsible for Installing, maintaining and repairing computer hardware, Install and update software, Communicate with end users to understand the computer issue, troubleshoot and determine a plan of action to resolve, Assist computer end users by phone and "dialing into" user's computer with a remote desktop type application to troubleshoot and resolve issues, as well as in person user support.    Key Results:  ? Consistently changing environments and situations.  ? Provide customers with friendly service and extensive knowledge  ? Customers request my service on a regular basis. Data Systems Administrator United States Marine, USMC - Camp Pendleton North, CA November 2014 to November 2018 Awarded IT position at the culmination of 12-week basic training, 2 months of combat training, an additional 8 months of intensive, specialized Communications and Electronics training. I was responsible for the installation, configuration, and management of data network systems in both stand-alone and client-server environments. While on deployment, I supported over 3,000 Marines and Sailors.    Key Results:  ˜ Extensive training in a field environment, where I can troubleshoot and think on my feet how to solve a problem and adapt to prevent further issues.  ˜ Fulfilled a range of duties including helpdesk administrator, networking technician, and field maintenance of equipment.  ˜ Selection to be the leader of a team to support hundreds to thousands of Marines during a high operations tempo. Education High school or equivalent Port Charlotte High School - Port Charlotte, FL August 2010 to June 2014 Skills Helpdesk, Desktop Support, Pc Support, Help Desk, LAN, Comptia, Help Desk Support, Hardware, Deployment Additional Information Key Skills  - Domain Administrator  - End-User support  - Configuration of Networks  - Helpdesk    - Leadership  Troubleshooting  - Technically proficient    - Accountability of equipment  - Logistical aspects  - Tactfully answer questions/ask questions