Linux Systems Administrator Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Linux Systems Administrator - NBC Universal Brooklyn, NY • Overall 5 Years of IT Experience and over 3 years' experience in Linux system administration, experience in Linux/Unix Windows operation system. I have supported environment RHEL 6,7 and Centos 6,7 system analysis & design, network administration, Tier I, & II technical support to deliver the highest quality of customer service  • Design implement and administration of networks using Linux/Unix/Windows server, configuration of switch, router & firewall & Web min, MySQL, Bash Scripting, VMware, LAMP and Apache webserver design & implementation.  • Expertise in enterprise TCP/IP networking, Web hosting, cPanel, software & hardware support  • Hands-on real time experience with DNS, Mail, Proxy, Web, SSH, FTP, SMTP, DHCP, iptables, RAID, LVM, SAN, Firewall in Red hat, CentOS, Sun Solaris, Debian, Ubuntu, Fedora and awk & sed utility  • Excellent organization skills, multi-tasking, self-motivated, proactive, responsible team player Work Experience Linux Systems Administrator NBC Universal - Englewood, NJ November 2018 to Present Responsibilities:    • Providing support with developer's infrastructure servers.  • Configured NIC for Configured, managed and provisioned RHEL, CentOS, and Ubuntu servers.  • Migrated physical servers to VMware and configured virtualized infrastructure using vCenter.  • Managed and provisioned virtual machines using templates.  • Installed and partitioned storage and installed file systems such as EXT3, EXT4, and XFS. Monitored servers' performance and their health.  • Resolved basic and critical system issues in a timely manner.  • Automated daily tasks and scheduled them using cron and at utilities.  • Created documentations basic operation procedures and tasks using Confluence.  • Used LVM to manage disk space more efficiently.  • Collaborated with bonding to enhance performance and redundancy.  • Racked, stacked, and wired servers in data center. Troubleshooted issues with servers related to on premises.  • Built new systems using PXE boot and the kickstart file.  • Set up service port using ILO and IDRAG for remote access to console.  • Decommissioned servers that were on premises and provided upgrade support.  • Managed upgrades and patches using Red Hat Satellite on production systems.  • Troubleshoot production systems with Linux CLI commands. Linux Administrator Dynata - Shelton, CT July 2014 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  • Installed new servers, configuration, mostly on RHEL 6 and 7.  • Perform daily system monitoring.  • Reviewing system and application logs for troubleshooting.  • Managed Disks and File systems using LVM on Linux, kernel patching.  • Applied patches on all Linux Boxes from common repository using YUM.  • Resolved troubleshooting problems and issues relating system infrastructure.  • Provide after hours on-call support.  • Maintained user accounts as we as provided essential privileges for assigned users.  • Responded to incoming requests from multiple customers with timely action and right solutions.  • Administering RedHat Enterprise, CentOS, AIX, Solaris systems.  • Troubleshooting production systems working with business applications.  • Creating virtual machines for installation of applications and servers using VMware.  • Monitoring clusters for high availability and resource management using VMware HA and DRS.  • Monitoring users and groups using LDAP and Active Directory.  • Managing VMware VCenter and VSphere in production. Providing support and backups of vms after business hours. Creating ESXi hypervisors with hardware raids.  • Automating configurations and installations using Ansible.  • Creating playbooks to deploy and configure multiple servers.  • Creating SSH keys for password less entries and VPN servers.  • Installing and configuring HTTP, DNS, DHCP, FTP, NFS and PXE boot servers.  • Monitoring web applications on production systems.  • Creating DNS records and managing IP addresses and hostnames using DNS and DHCP.  • Installing OS patches, system patches, and vulnerability patches using BladeLogic.  • Creating local YUM repository and packet management using RPM and YUM.  • Monitoring system and infrastructure health using Linux CLI and Nagios.  • Ticket management and solving issues using ServiceNow.  • Creating bash shell scripts to automate tasks such as monitoring machine performance and repetitive daily tasks.  • Creating iptables rules to manage firewall and harden servers.  • Communicating and collaborating with network, database, and storage administrators to perform server builds.  • Working with different teams after business hours to provide support for patches and upgrades. Supporting systems on call with monthly rotations.  • Migrated systems from on premises to AWS with Migration Hub.  • Managed EC2 instances and provided troubleshooting support with deployed instances.  • Created backups and deployed S3 buckets. Provided object availability and durability solutions. Education Kingsborough Community College - Brooklyn, NY September 2012 to June 2014 Skills Aix, Apache, Linux, Pseries, Red hat, Linux Administrator