Sr. Systems Administrator (REMOTE) Sr. <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (REMOTE) Sr. Systems Administrator (REMOTE) Sharpsburg, GA Experienced Systems Administrator seeks challenging position with a progressive Company, where I can contribute my expertise in Support, Designing, Implementing and Managing Large, Global and Secure Enterprise Environments. Work Experience Sr. Systems Administrator (REMOTE) Bridgeline Digital - Boston, MA February 2016 to June 2019 • Supported 24x7 High Availability SAAS and Perpetual environments for multiple clients.  • Implementation and maintenance of hosting, computing, networking, and storage infrastructure in AWS  • Configured and Supported Active Directory, Group Policies System Administrator Day 1 Solutions - McLean, VA July 2014 to January 2016 • Supporting 24x7 High Availability production environments for multiple clients.  • Implementation and maintenance of hosting, computing, networking, and storage infrastructure in AWS  • Set up and configured Active Directory and appropriate Group Policies  • Remote troubleshooting of Web servers, Database servers in Linux and Windows environments.  • Cloudformation  • Maintaining technical expertise in all areas of network and computer hardware and software interconnection and interfacing, such as routers, switches, VPN concentrators, Wireless LAN Controllers, and gateways.  • Analyzing of the type, size, routing, network management, traffic, and device configuration.  • Implementing and testing Disaster Recovery plans.  • Installing and configuring Citrix XenApp and XenDesktop  • Implementing and testing Automatic Backup processes for production servers.  • Maintaining desktop workstations, software installation.  • Python and bash scripting  • Installation, configuration, setup, and support of Exchange, Active Directory, SQL, and IIS.  • Setting up and monitor services such as Monitis, Splunk, Icinga, and AWS Cloudwatch to insure that systems, websites, and applications are running without issues.  • Configuring VPN's over internet & IPSec tunnels on multiple VPN devices.  • Provide technical support through allocating systems resources, managing accounts, administering passwords  • Documentation, security, recover-ability and access including deploying security and operating system patches.  • Maintain hardware and software inventories including developing and updating departmental distributed software license, renew SSL certificates  • Maintains security access to computer system information and reviews system/database tools for functionality, status, and applicability. Security monitoring via AlienVault (HIDs/NIDs) 2016 to 2016 • Supported, configured, patched, secured Windows Servers 2008, 2012, 2016, Windows 7, Windows 10  • Troubleshooting issues with web application, databases, networks  • Set up and configured HA Domain Controllers  • Azure AD sync with On-Premises AD  • Security monitoring via AlienVault (HIDs/NIDs)  • Endpoint Protection  • Remote troubleshooting of Web, Database, Application, Domain Controllers, File, SFTP servers  • SAN Storage Maintenance  • Migrated On-site VMWare infrastructure to AWS and Azure  • Migrated Office 365 using Azure AD  • Provided Network Support for Physical environment  • Provided documentation and support for PCI Compliance and SOC2  • Designed and implemented network schema for servers and multiple environments  • Troubleshooted various networking, web application, active directory issues  • Creating and supporting DNS entries with SSL certificates  • Set up and configured Ubuntu and RedHat servers  • Set up and supported OpenVPN  • Created and documented Disaster Recovery Plan  • Set up and executed automated deployments using Octopus  • Developed and documented guidance for various IT processes  • ServiceNow Administration  • Set up and configured Name Servers in Linux  • Configured automated backups in AWS using Python  • Configured Distributed File System Functions for File servers  • Set up and supported Proxy server, Nginx server  • Set up and configured Load Balancer F5  • Secured environments with Firewall, Security Groups, AntiVirus, Monitoring Systems like Cloud Trail, GuardDuty  • Installed and configured Intrusion Detection System  • Monitoring Systems: Pingdom, Pager Duty  • Monitoring server's CPU and Disk Utilization  • Scripting Bash and Powershell  • Installed and Configured MySQL server 2012 and 2014  • Have experience with following AWS services: EC2, S3, WAF, CloudWatch, VPC, WorkSpaces, S3, Glacier, RDS, SMS, SES, IAM, GuardDuty, Auto Scaling, CloudFront, Route 53, Direct Connect, and more. Education A.A.S. in Cyber Security and Assurance in Cyber Security and Assurance Anne Arundel Community College - Arnold, MD 2014 B.S. in Applied Information Technologies in Economics in Applied Information Technologies Magnitogorsk State University 2007 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, DNS, SCOM, NETWORK MONITORING, VMWARE, System Admin, Linux Administrator, System Administrator, Red Hat, Linux Additional Information SKILLS    • 24x7 Customer Support  • Web Application Support  • Active Directory Configuration and Support  • Systems and Network Monitoring  • PowerShell Scripting  • AWS, Azure, VMware, Hyper-V  • Backups and Disaster Recovery  • VPN, Proxy, DNS  • Office 365 Management  • Azure AD  • Project Management  • SSL Certificates  • Automated Processes  • Problem Solving  • On-site to Cloud Migration  • SCCM and SCOM  • IP Subnetting  • Windows Servers  • Linux OS  • Security Analyst