Computer Aided Designer Computer Aided Designer Computer Aided Designer Spartanburg, SC * Looking for an entry level position at a manufacturing company to utilize intermediate level skills in CAD  programs. With an eagerness to learn and is flexible for any task. Work Experience Computer Aided Designer SWVFT Aerial Robotics 2017 to 2019 using OnShape to design drone frames.  * 3-D printed drone frame  * Assembled hardware to drone such as soldering motors to electronic speed controllers, flight controller, and power distribution board (PDB).  Cal State Long Beach Univ. (CSULB) American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA)  * Design Build Fly 2016 Competition hosted by (AIAA). Helped laser cut wood to create air foils for wings. Systems Administrator LUNDMARK January 2017 to August 2018 Projects over the years include:  -Web design and development, interactive projects for Sony and Warner Bros, promotional videos, brand  ID, online content management systems for schools, companies and non-profits.  * Worked on over 50 different projects for clients, which include:  -ivalongbeach.org - Education  -pacificgardensco.com - Service  * Responsibilities are to:  -Troubleshoot and test sites, update to Joomla and Wordpress, then update its plugins.  -Add Mailgun to sites by adding domain name to its service, add records to where DNS is managed such as  (Godaddy, Namesilo, etc.)  -Update PHP by accessing WinSCP and entering IP address of the server and FTP to replace .htaccess files  for Joomla sites.  -Changed site's property and set up SSL on Cloud by accessing Google search console to include HTTPS.  -Migrated Joomla & WordPress sites to Gcloud MATE California Launch Team (CalT) September 2016 to November 2016 Fall 2016  * Engineering rockets that are applicable to the real world. Involved in using SolidWorks to design nylon bolts for specific parts of the rocket.  Long Beach City College Robotics Program  * With 10 teammates, designed a spool on SolidWorks to organize electric cable from ground station to ROV.  * Competed in the Marine Advanced Technology (MATE) National competition Education Bachelor's of Science in Electrical Engineering & Computer Science Long Beach City College - Long Beach, CA Present Skills Soldering, Cad, Problem solving Additional Information SKILLS    * Soldering, Computer Aid Design (CAD), Problem Solving, Teamwork