Classified Systems Administrator Classified <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Classified Systems Administrator - Mitre Corporation Herndon, VA Detail-oriented Computer Network and Cyber-security major with minor in Network Security, currently attending University of Maryland University of College (UMUC), with 6+ years of work experience. Aiming to leverage a proven knowledge of advanced technology, recovery and backup procedures, and emerging technologies skills to successfully fill the Information Systems role at your company. Frequently praised as hard-working by my peers, I can be relied upon to help your company achieve its goals. Work Experience Classified Systems Administrator Mitre Corporation May 2019 to Present • Responsible for management of Active Directory Objects  • Creation and management of RHEL 7 systems  • Troubleshoot and resolve any security vulnerabilities of Linux systems  • Apply Risk Management Framework (RMF) to all Information Systems  • Assist Information Systems Security Officers (ISSO) with SCAP scans and implementing STIGS  • Assist ISSO with analyzing and fixing vulnerabilities  • Manage a Windows supporting services environment, including WSUS, Network Policy Server, Certificate Services  • Administer and manage stand-alone systems - ensure systems are updated and patched  • Demonstrated ability to develop effective technical and support documentation to include design & test plans, implementation plans, and automation plans using standard templates  • Deploy all hardware/software configurations following established standards in an automatable and auditable method  • Plan and prepare systems for network outages Cybersecurity Liaison / System Administrator Combat Communications/Air Combat Control November 2015 to May 2019 • Cybersecurity Liaison between the unit and the wing  • Critical member of Incident Response Team  • Monitored and administered Cyber Awareness Training Certifications for users.  • VDI implementation and installation including provisioning of users/groups on VMware VSphere  • Managed and validated users on unclassified network using IAO express.  • Led the IT department projects and ensured all EMSEC inspections were completed prior to any installations.  • Created and maintained the Enterprise Mobile Device Programs for the unit.  • Created Standard Operating Procedures for Mobile Device configurations, new system installations, Emergency Contingency Planning and Virtual Desktop Infrastructure.  • Maintain and administer computer networks and related computing environments including computer hardware, systems software, applications software, and all configurations.  • Assess and eliminate vulnerabilities on AFNET systems.  • Led Communications Focal Point as CFP Manager at deployed (isolated) sites.  • Diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve hardware, software, or other network and system problems, and replace defective components when necessary.  • Plan, coordinate, and implement network security measures to protect data, software, and hardware.  • Planned and Led Windows 7 migration to Windows 10 on over 500 systems.  • Validated network diagrams for implementing new systems for classified environment.  • Led projects installing and maintaining JWICS and LRA systems.  • Configure, monitor, and maintain email applications or virus protection software.  • Design, configure, and test computer hardware, networking software and operating system software.  • Assisted IT team on field projects and ensure systems and smartphones are DISA STIG configuration/compliant  • Ensure server, workstations, peripherals and software comply with Air Force standards  • Recommend changed to improve systems and network configuration, and determine hardware or software requirements related to such changes  • Research new technologies by attending seminars, reading trade articles, taking classes and implement or implementation of new technologies  • Analyze equipment performance records to determine the need for repair or replacement Education Computer Networks and Cybersecurity University of Maryland University College March 2015 to May 2019 Skills Active directory, Exchange, Network design, Vmware, Security, Web services, Linux, Amazon web services, Metasploit, Wireshark, Windows 8, Windows server 2012, Microsoft exchange, Active secret clearance, Red Hat, Redhat, Linux Administrator, Cybersecurity, System Administrator, SCCM Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: SrA Additional Information SKILLS & ABILITIES  Active Secret Clearance  A+, Security + CE, and C|EH certified  DoD Network  McAfee/Amazon Web Services  Wireshark/Metasploit/PowerShell  Virtual Desktop Infrastructure/VMWare/Active Directory  ACAS/HBSS  Network Design/TCPView  Windows Server 2012, 2016  SCAP  NIST 800  ACAS  Microsoft Exchange  Linux (RHEL/CENTOS/UBUNTU)  Windows 8,10