Linux Systems Engineer Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Linux Systems Engineer - NBC Universal Englewood, NJ Work Experience Linux Systems Engineer NBC Universal - Englewood, NJ November 2018 to Present • Administering RedHat Enterprise, CentOS, AIX, Solaris systems.  • Troubleshooting production systems working with business applications.  • Creating virtual machines for installation of applications and servers using VMware.  • Monitoring clusters for high availability and resource management using VMware HA and DRS.  • Monitoring users and groups using LDAP and Active Directory.  • Managing VMware VCenter and VSphere in production. Providing support and backups of vms after business hours. Creating ESXi hypervisors with hardware raids.  • Automating configurations and installations using Ansible.  • Creating playbooks to deploy and configure multiple servers.  • Creating SSH keys for password less entries and VPN servers.  • Installing and configuring HTTP, DNS, DHCP, FTP, NFS and PXE boot servers.  • Monitoring web applications on production systems.  • Creating DNS records and managing IP addresses and hostnames using DNS and DHCP.  • Installing OS patches, system patches, and vulnerability patches using BladeLogic.  • Creating local YUM repository and packet management using RPM and YUM.  • Monitoring system and infrastructure health using Linux CLI and Nagios.  • Ticket management and solving issues using ServiceNow.  • Creating bash shell scripts to automate tasks such as monitoring machine performance and repetitive daily tasks.  • Creating iptables rules to manage firewall and harden servers.  • Communicating and collaborating with network, database, and storage administrators to perform server builds.  • Working with different teams after business hours to provide support for patches and upgrades. Supporting systems on call with monthly rotations.  • Migrated systems from on premises to AWS with Migration Hub.  • Managed EC2 instances and provided troubleshooting support with deployed instances.  • Created backups and deployed S3 buckets. Provided object availability and durability solutions. Linux Systems Administrator DYNATA - Shelton, CT July 2014 to July 2018 • Providing support with developer's infrastructure servers.  • Configured NIC for Configured, managed and provisioned RHEL, CentOS, and Ubuntu servers.  • Migrated physical servers to VMware and configured virtualized infrastructure using vCenter.  • Managed and provisioned virtual machines using templates.  • Installed and partitioned storage and installed file systems such as EXT3, EXT4, and XFS. Monitored servers' performance and their health.  • Resolved basic and critical system issues in a timely manner.  • Automated daily tasks and scheduled them using cron and at utilities.  • Created documentations basic operation procedures and tasks using Confluence.  • Used LVM to manage disk space more efficiently.  • Collaborated with bonding to enhance performance and redundancy.  • Racked, stacked, and wired servers in data center. Troubleshooted issues with servers related to on premises.  • Built new systems using PXE boot and the kickstart file.  • Set up service port using ILO and IDRAG for remote access to console.  • Decommissioned servers that were on premises and provided upgrade support.  • Managed upgrades and patches using Red Hat Satellite on production systems.  • Troubleshooted production systems with Linux CLI commands. Education Kingsborough Community College - Brooklyn, NY September 2012 to June 2014 Skills APACHE, LINUX, UNIX, VMWARE, BASH Additional Information Technical Skills  Linux, Unix, RedHat Linux (RHEL) 6, 7, CentOS 6, 7, AWS, VMware, Bash, RedHat Satellite, BladeLogic, Apache webserver, and Ansible.