Senior Exchange Engineer & Systems Administrator Senior Exchange Engineer &amp; <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Kevin Gracey - Exchange Engineer Woonsocket, RI Exchange: 5 years  Microsoft Exchange 2007, Exchange 2010, Exchange 2013, Exchange 2016, Exchange Management Console (EMC), Exchange Online Protection (EOP), Exchange Admin Center (EAC), Exchange Best Practices Analyzer, Hybrid Configuration Wizard, Exchange Online, PowerShell, Active Directory, MDM, Identity Management, User Groups, Distribution Groups, Role-Based Access Control, Azure ADConnect, Active Directory Federated Services (ADFS)  Office 365: 5 years  Azure AD Connect, Active Directory Federation Services (ADFS), Active Directory Domain Services (ADDS), Office 365 Admin  Outlook: 5 years  Outlook Client, Outlook Web (OWA)  Lync/Skype-for-Business – 5 years  Lync 2015/Lync Online/Skype-for-Business (SFB)  Microsoft Components  Active Directory  PowerShell  Virtualization: 5 years  HyperV, VMWare   Operating Systems: 5 years  Windows Server 2003, Windows Server 2008, Windows Server 2008R2, Windows Server 2012, Windows Server 2012R2, Windows Server 2016  Windows, Linux, MacOS  Documentation  Experience documenting and diagramming architecture and implementation plans.  Security Information Systems  Risk Management  Security Best Practices  Network  Firewalls, Switches  Soft Skills  Works well under pressure, detail oriented, skilled in strategic planning, professional and courteous  Software  MS Office Suite, MS Visio, MS Project Work Experience Senior Exchange Engineer & Systems Administrator ARTEMIS IT - Melbourne, FL September 2017 to Present This project involved an existing environment of distributed Exchange 2013 and Exchange 2016 farms in coexistence. The project involved implementing new Exchange 2016 and Windows 2012/R2 servers, and migrating several existing Exchange 2013 farms to Exchange 2016.  T     Analyzed on premise Exchange metrics and used the Exchange calculator to plan for the Exchange migration.   h     Installed Windows server 2012R2 and ran prerequisites to prepare for Exchange installations, also created virtualization with Microsoft Hyper-V and VMware.  i     Installed and configured Windows Servers into the network.  s     Verified of DNS and Exchange systems and made changes to infrastructure to better suit migration efforts.       Installed and configured Exchange servers for production and test environments following strict specifications.   p     Troubleshot Exchange server functionality, isolating root cause and determining a course of action.   r     Responsible for ensuring messaging system uptime regardless of the source of the issue.  o     Providing High Availability Solutions (DAG) for User Mailbox Databases.   j     Created user accounts, assign group rights, create distribution lists, and maintained Windows folder security, created group policy, etc.   e     Administered the Domain Name Server (DNS), and maintained a properly functioning dynamic DNS infrastructure.  c     Migrated Exchange 2013 deployment to an Exchange 2016 messaging environment for all user mailboxes and public folder databases to take advantage of new functionality.   t     Managed the coexistence of the two infrastructures while migrating users and implementing high availability features within Exchange.       Implementation of Tenant Office 365 with AzureADConnect and Active Directory Federation Services (ADFS) for Single-Sign-On.   i     Upgraded Active Directory from ADFS 2.0 to ADFS 3.0.   n     Responsible for maintaining connectivity with Outlook and User Mailboxes.   v     Met external connectivity requirements for Exchange i.e. OWA, ActiveSync and Outlook Anywhere.   o     Troubleshooting of Office 365 issues including mail routing issues.   l     Prepared on premises Active Directory infrastructure for migration effort using IDFIX tool for directory clean up.   v     Responsible for documentation of the Microsoft Office 365/Exchange, and Messaging-computing environment.   e     Provided High-Availability Solutions (DAG) for User Mailbox Databases.   d     Responsible for Windows clustering services and deploying CCR, SCR, LCR.       Created user accounts, assigned group rights, created distribution lists, maintained Windows folder security, created group policy, etc.  a     Assisted with the administration of a networking environment with over 500 servers distributed over 60 locations.  n     Worked in a mixed operating system environment including Windows Server, Linux, and MacOS.       Provided Messaging System support working with a ticketing system, with defined service delivery times, and closed over 150 tickets a month, meeting SLAs.  e     Resolved all networking, hardware, and software issues within defined SLA times.  x     Managed a large VMware environment of over 300 servers.  i     Administrated an Active Directory environment of over 2,000 users and groups.  s     Administrated over 50 websites as part of the environment.  t     Administrated best practices of user access control within the network environment.  i     Administrated a large-scale backup environment of the 500+ servers and addressed any issues that were encountered  n     Assisted with the training of 15 new and junior team members.  g     Handled equipment and software purchases, licensing, and hardware acquisition, and worked with vendors to maintain and troubleshoot issues found.  Assisted with maintaining a mixed telephony environment including Avaya, Cisco, Samsung, MiTel, and Shoretel. Messaging and Network Systems Administrator AVIDYNE - Melbourne, FL October 2015 to September 2017 This project involved an existing environment of distributed Exchange 2013 and Exchange 2016 farms in coexistence. The project involved implementing new Exchange 2016 and Windows 2012/R2 servers, and migrating several existing Exchange 2013 farms to Exchange 2016.  T     Analyzed on premise Exchange metrics and used the Exchange calculator to plan for the Exchange migration.   h     Installed Windows server 2012R2 and ran prerequisites to prepare for Exchange installations, also created virtualization with Microsoft Hyper-V and VMware.  e     Installed and configured Windows Servers into the network.       Verified of DNS and Exchange systems and made changes to infrastructure to better suit migration efforts.  p     Installed and configured Exchange servers for production and test environments following strict specifications.   r     Troubleshot Exchange server functionality, isolating root cause and determining a course of action.   o     Responsible for ensuring messaging system uptime regardless of the source of the issue.  j     Providing High Availability Solutions (DAG) for User Mailbox Databases.   e     Created user accounts, assign group rights, create distribution lists, and maintained Windows folder security, created group policy, etc.   c     Administered the Domain Name Server (DNS), and maintained a properly functioning dynamic DNS infrastructure.  t     Migrated Exchange 2013 deployment to an Exchange 2016 messaging environment for all user mailboxes and public folder databases to take advantage of new functionality.        Managed the coexistence of the two infrastructures while migrating users and implementing high availability features within Exchange.  i     Implementation of Tenant Office 365 with AzureADConnect and Active Directory Federation Services (ADFS) for Single-Sign-On.   n     Upgraded Active Directory from ADFS 2.0 to ADFS 3.0.   v     Responsible for maintaining connectivity with Outlook and User Mailboxes.   o     Met external connectivity requirements for Exchange i.e. OWA, ActiveSync and Outlook Anywhere.   l     Troubleshooting of Office 365 issues including mail routing issues.   v     Prepared on premises Active Directory infrastructure for migration effort using IDFIX tool for directory clean up.   e     Responsible for documentation of the Microsoft Office 365/Exchange, and Messaging-computing environment.   d     Provided High-Availability Solutions (DAG) for User Mailbox Databases.        Responsible for Windows clustering services and deploying CCR, SCR, LCR.  t     Created user accounts, assigned group rights, created distribution lists, maintained Windows folder security, created group policy, etc.  h     Assisted with the administration of a networking environment with over 500 servers distributed over 60 locations.  e     Worked in a mixed operating system environment including Windows Server, Linux, and MacOS.       Provided Messaging System support working with a ticketing system, with defined service delivery times, and closed over 150 tickets a month, meeting SLAs.  m     Resolved all networking, hardware, and software issues within defined SLA times.  i     Managed a large VMware environment of over 300 servers.  g     Administrated an Active Directory environment of over 2,000 users and groups.  r     Administrated over 50 websites as part of the environment.  a     Administrated best practices of user access control within the network environment.  t     Administrated a large-scale backup environment of the 500+ servers and addressed any issues that were encountered  i     Assisted with the training of 15 new and junior team members.  o     Handled equipment and software purchases, licensing, and hardware acquisition, and worked with vendors to maintain and troubleshoot issues found.  Assisted with maintaining a mixed telephony environment including Avaya, Cisco, Samsung, MiTel, and Shoretel. Messaging and Systems Administrator AAR Airlift - Palm Bay, FL October 2014 to October 2015 Migrated users from Exchange 2007 to Exchange 2010, maintaining one Exchange 2010 server for limited on-prem use.  M     Planned new environment analyzing needs and determining licensing needs, virtual servers and tools needed for migration, and set-up a test using Microsoft Hyper-V.  i     Rolled-out implementation of Exchange 2010; implemented Exchange 2010, verified and configured the domain in Office 365.  g     Used IDFix Tool to detect and correct issues on Active Directory before the migration.  r     Created PowerShell scripts to change the UPN for multiple groups of users on the Active Directory.  a     Matched the Primary SMTP Address with the new UPN using scripts on the Active Directory.  t     Decommissioned Exchange 2007 server, save for one key server on prem.  e     Part of a six-man IT team that had management of over 50 servers and 500 users at multiple locations both CONUS and OCONUS.  d     Worked within a mixed operating system environment containing Windows, Linux, and MacOS.       Assisted addressing software, hardware, and networking issues within the environment.  u     Assisted troubleshooting issues with computer compatibility with avionics equipment.  Assisted with maintaining a Cisco telephony system. Education Bachelors of Science in Information Systems Security University of Phoenix - Tempe, AZ August 2012 to April 2014 Associate of Arts University of Phoenix - Tempe, AZ Skills Exchange 2007, 2010, 2013, 2016, Office 365, Skype-for-Business, Lync 2015, Active Directory, Messaging, Communication, PowerShell, HyperV, VMWare, Windows Server, TCP/IP, DNS, SIP, MAPI, SMTP, VoIP, Migration and DHCP