Vessel Tech Vessel Tech Grafton, IL Seasoned computer technician with 3 years of experience versed in the installation and maintenance of a wide range of computer hardware, software and Network Administration. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Vessel Tech ARGOSY CASINO - Alton, IL February 2019 to Present Diagnosed, and fixed various equipment at facility. Preforms Maintenance and Inspections on the Alton Belle II, such as changing light bulbs, Air filters,and minor plumbing such as unclogging sinks,toilets and traps or fixing them should the need arise.I also preform light maintenance on elevators such as inspection, bleeding, and ensuring proper function. maintaining and rebuilding Hvac Systems such as Fan Coils, Drain Traps and Air grates using light and heavy tools to assist me in my repairs. IT Support Specialist Amazon.com - Edwardsville, IL July 2016 to March 2017 Duties Include receiving inventory for the newly built warehouse, resolving trouble tickets with scanners, Printers, and password resets with Bitlocker I also had to document the new inventory such as Honeywell Scanners TC 55’s and IP phones that came into the IT cage to be deployed to various departments while in the warehouse, and establishing communications to satisfy each department’s needs. I also configured Switches, Routers, and preformed Inventory audits to make sure we had enough equipment to satisfy our department’s needs. This position was also in a warehouse environment subjected to Osha safety, and included working around heavy machinery such as, Forklifts, Elevating picking machines and robotics for picker and packers. I also had to work with conveyor and PLC programming to help our contractors keep packages flowing out of the warehouse, and to the proper destination’s. Systems Administrator Lewis&Clark Community College - Godfrey, IL March 2015 to January 2016 Rebuilt and documented in detail the CNET department’s network. Duties included Running CAT5e/CAT6 and Fiber as well as reconfiguring servers that ran Windows 2012r2- 2008gui for image deployment, DHCP, DNS and re-building a new file server to replace a NAS for backup redundancy. I also had to manage 4 subordinates making sure they were on task and had the right tools and equipment for the tasks at hand while managing schedules of the techs and the department’s budget while making plans on how to go about reconfiguring and growing the network. Besides that, my duties included documenting the newly built network, solving trouble tickets and maintaining IT inventory and troubleshooting connectivity when a network problem presented itself as well Education A.A.S in Computer Network Security & Administration Lewis & Clark Community College 2015 Skills Microsoft Excel (3 years), Computer Repair (3 years), Networking (3 years), Program Logic Control (1 year), Windows 7 (3 years), Windows 10 (3 years), Linux (2 years), Warehouse (1 year), Active Directory (2 years), Customer Service (4 years), DNS (3 years), Office Equipment (3 years), HVAC (1 year), Forklift Operator (1 year), Plumbing (1 year), Maintenance (2 years) Certifications/Licenses A valid IT Specialist certification