Infrastructure Engineer Infrastructure Engineer Infrastructure Engineer - Droipt Inc Miami, FL • With 5 years of professional experience working as a network and system admin/cloud engineer in large  firms involving multiple operating systems.  • Collaborating with development teams to enhance deployment processes by implementing Continuous  Integration and Continuous Delivery (CI/CD) using Jenkins.  • Extensive hands-on experience on AWS services like EC2, Auto-Scaling groups, Load balancers and s3.  • Experienced in writing Ansible playbooks to deploy automated tasks to multiple servers. Managing  configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Ansible as a configuration  manager.  • Experience in using Jenkins and pipelines to drive all builds out to the Docker registry and then  deployed to Kubernetes, created Pods and managed using Kubernetes.  • Designed AWS Cloud Formation templates to create custom sized VPC, subnets, NAT to ensure  successful deployment of web applications and database templates and expertise in architecting secure  VPC solutions in AWS with the help of Network ACLs, Security groups and public and private network  configurations.  • Extensively worked on source code management tools like GIT, SVN, Bitbucket, and GitLab  • Expertise in system administration, information analysis, Server Deployment and support.  • Expertise in using build tools like MAVEN and ANT for the building of deployable artifacts such as  war & ear from source code  • Expertise in Systems Administration, Information Analysis, Server Deployment and support.  • Worked in Agile Project management Process.  • Good understanding of Cloud Technology's Iaas, Paas & Saas.  • Having scripting knowledge on Bash, Shell and Python  • Excellent communication skills, ability to work as team or individually, ability to learn new  technologies quickly. Work Experience Infrastructure Engineer Droipt Inc - Miami, FL October 2017 to Present Roles and Responsibilities:    • Implementing a Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery using Jenkins and Ansible in Linux  environment.  • Experience in creating customized Docker images and pushing them to Amazon ECR, good knowledge  in containerization.  • Used Kubernetes for container orchestration and automating the container deployment.  • Designed AWS Cloud Formation templates to create custom sized VPC, subnets, and NAT to ensure  successful deployment of application servers.  • Responsible for developing and deploying highly available and fault tolerant systems using amazon  load balancers and auto scaling groups.  • Implemented Prometheus for monitoring and log management and used alert manager to be able to receive alerts in case of server failures.  • Implemented Credstash a credential utility for hiding the secrets from GitHub using amazon KMS and DynamoDB.  • Created IAM policies and customized the JSON templates to provide granular permissions to the services.  • Implemented AWS Code Pipeline and created Cloud Formation JSON templates in Terraform for Infrastructure as code.  • Worked with repository managing services like GitHub and GitLab.  • Using the concepts of computer architecture in determining optimum CPU and memory sizes are  needed for the remote servers.  • Automated build and deployment process along with server cleanup using Bash Scripting.  • Created Elastic Files Systems for Ec2 instances and calculated and increased the file system sizes to improve EFS Burst Credit Balance.  • Experienced in working with MYSQL and NoSQL(Cassandra and Mango DB) databases.  • Building and configuring VPC's which acts as network layers, and design Access control lists that acts  as firewalls.  • Experienced in trouble shooting and automated deployment to web and application servers like WebLogic, Nginx, and Tomcat over AWS cloud.  Environment: AWS, Cloud Formation, GIT, EC2, IAM, S3, Ansible, Docker, VPC, Cloud Watch, SNS, SQS, Dynamo DB, MYSQL, Tomcat. Devops Engineer BBVA Compass - Birmingham, AL April 2016 to August 2017 Roles and Responsibilities:    • Configured and maintained user accounts for development, QA, and production teams and created roles  for EC2, RDS, S3, Cloud Watch, EBS resources to communicate with each other using IAM and performed S3 buckets creation, policies and on the IAM role base policies and customizing the JSON  template.  • Created custom sized EC2 instances, VPC, subnets, NAT, ELB and Security groups using AWS Cloud  Formation templates.  • Installed and used Netdata for server monitoring and alerting(Slack) when the servers is about to run  out of Memory, Ram, CPU or if there is any issue with traffic flow.  • Built scripts using MAVEN build tool in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  Configured GIT with Jenkins and schedule jobs using POLL SCM option.  • Integrated Subversion for automating builds with Jenkins.  • Day to day activities like building and deploying code in different environments like DEV, SIT, UAT, Pre-Prod and Prod using Jenkins, Docker and Continuous Integration /Delivery is being enabled  through Deployment into several environments of Test, QA, Stress and Production using Jenkins and Nexus.  • Used Ansible and Ansible Tower as Configuration management tool to automate repetitive task.  • Created Ansible playbooks for different environments for release and converted Puppet scripts into the Ansible Playbooks.  • Experience in working on source control tool GIT. Strong knowledge on source controller concepts like Branches, Merges and Tags.  • Administrated Gsuite for domain management along with managing user and group permissions.  • Installed and configured Apache Tomcat Server. Deployed the application into Apache Tomcat Web  Container.  • Administered the JIRA and managed the access for users, filters and dashboard.  • Integrated Subversion with JIRA and created pre-commit to implement the gated check-in process and post-commit hooks to implement JIRA commit plugin.  Environment: Gsuite, AWS, Docker, JIRA, Netdata, GIT, Docker, Cloud Formation, YAML, JSON, Ansible. Systems Administrator Data Foundry - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2013 to December 2014 Roles and Responsibilities:    • Handled regular security monitoring to identify any possible intrusions, and implemented  unique procedures to better assess risks and elevate patching cadence within a logistically  complex environment.  • Regularly implemented disaster recovery policies in order to assure business continuity.  • Configure Dell Networking Switches - Ports and VLANs.  • Streamlined all aspects of performance tuning, hardware upgrades, and resource optimization  as part of a larger.  • Evaluate new software/plugins and recommend upgrades.  • Design, implement and maintain VMware vSphere infrastructure.  • Organizational continuous improvement effort, receiving commendations from management  for technical acumen.  • Perform exhaustive evaluation of industry trends and new technologies to improve  administration efforts, including configuring CPU/memory/disk partitions, as well as maintaining data center environmental/monitoring equipment.  • Administrated Office 365 and Active Directory for all users.  • Minor PowerShell used in automating certain tasks.    Environment: Bash, Data storage, VMware, Networking, VPC, VPN, Switches, Active directory. Education MS in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering University of Alabama in Huntsville - Huntsville, AL March 2016 Batchelor's Amrita University April 2013 Skills AWS (3 years), Ansible (3 years), System Administration (5 years), Docker (3 years), Kubernetes (3 years), YAML (3 years), Jenkins (3 years), CI/CD (3 years), Bash (5 years), Networking (5 years), Security (5 years), Linux, Git, Devops, Puppet Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Solutions Architect March 2018 to Present AWS Certified Sysops Administrator January 2018 to Present AWS Certified Developer December 2017 to Present