Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Dawsonville, GA To obtain a position as either a Junior Systems Administrator or Systems  Administrator in a medium to large enterprise environment. Work Experience Systems Administrator TrainACE\ Davis, Sita & Company September 2010 to November 2013 Daily Responsibilities:  • Active Directory (AD): Creating, deleting, locking\unlocking, modifying users\groups and assigning permissions.  • Group Policy Object (GPO) creation and implementation by testing for any conflicting permissions before linking and making live.  • Enterprise Anti-Virus (AV) support using Symantec Endpoint Protection configured in a centralized server\client setup as well as Malwarebytes Pro Edition.  • Backups and Recovery using Symantec Backup Exec to a Network Attached Storage (NAS) device that was planned for, researched, purchased, and implemented by me. Monthly recoveries were performed to ensure backup integrity as well as an offsite copy of backups to ensure availability.  • Patch Management using Windows Server Update Services (WSUS) with maintenance tasks scheduled for minimal operational disruption.  • Monitor event logs of all Servers and resolve issues as needed.  • Monitor SonicWall firewalls, including website access restrictions, VPN and remote access, and health of persistent VPN between school sites, to ensure the network's security and integrity.  • Write and update as needed all network and hardware\software documentation and layouts, standard operating procedures (SOP), and disaster recovery policies (DRP).  • Maintain networks for 2 organizations with 13 full-time personnel.  • Provide technical assistance and support, including software, hardware, printers, mobile devices, conference setups, and end user issues to teachers, students, employees and clients via onsite and remote calls.  • Prepare technology support, including equipment setup, inventory, and imaging, for 4 classrooms with day and night courses during 2-week to 3-month training programs.    Primary Projects:  Overhauled network infrastructure during 3-month project to facilitate expansion;  • Replaced outdated hardware and reconfigured 3 servers and 2 domain controllers; rebuilt domain in a mixed physical and virtual server environment with Windows 2008, 2008R2, and Windows 2003 using VMWare Workstation and Hyper-V.  • Determined cabling plan; ran and connected all cabling for server room and 4 classrooms.  • Wrote and updated Standard Operating Procedures (SOP), Disaster Recovery Policies (DRP), and all supporting network\server documentation to reflect the expansion and change to both the physical and network layouts.  Implemented new imaging solution to allow for deployment of Windows 7;  • Researched available technologies selected the Microsoft Deployment Toolkit (MDT), a free solution that, I customized to meet organizational needs.  • Integrated MDT into Windows Deployment Services (WDS) to streamline the deployment process with PXE Booting.  • Made several customized images to meet demands of classes being taught at the school as well as a standard image for use on all company machines using Windows Automated Installation Kit (WAIK).  Completed operating system transition for all users from Windows XP (x86) to Windows 7 (x64);  • Spec'd, priced, built, and ordered all required hardware ensuring it met the balance between needed performance and budget.  • Used VMWare to do a Physical to Virtual (PtoV) clone of existing user machine to ensure minimal user downtime during transition and to provide a fallback in case of unforeseen disasters after transition was complete.  • Used Microsoft's Deployment Toolkit (MDT) and Windows Easy Transfer (WET) to deploy new Windows 7 image and transfer the user's profiles, local documents and data, etc to new machine.  • Verified all systems and application functions were performing correctly then removed virtual machines accounts from domain and deleted them.  Configured and implemented new backup solution;  • As the company's data began to outgrow the existing tape backup solution I began researching a new solution that provided an immediate solution but, that was also scalable for future growth of backup data size as the company to grow. After careful research, I decided to implement a Network Attached Storage (NAS) device as this best suited my company's needs.  • Upon completion of the NAS integration into my network I adjusted all necessary SOP and DRP polices as well as network documentation accordingly.  Configured and implemented Secure FTP solution;  • Working for a CPA office, data security and integrity are very important. When I examined the existing FTP solution used to transfer important financial and tax data between the firm and its clients I noticed it was not secure and on a legacy server that was starting to experience random hardware and software failures.  • Upon noticing I immediately looked into a solution that would be quick, secure, and provide ease of use to our clientele, not all of whom were very tech savvy. I elected to use the Server version of FileZilla.  • After testing both functionality, ease of use, and security I then wrote detailed instructions to be used by the clients to install the client side on their end that were sent to them along with the security certificate.  • I served as a direct point of contact for them to resolve any possible issues during their installation of the software and security certificate. Education Diploma Northern High School - Owings, MD 2007 Skills I currently hold the following certifications:  MCSA Server 2008 (Pending)  MCTS: Windows Server 2008 Network Infrastructure, Configuration.  MCTS: Windows Server 2008 Active Directory, Configuring.  MCTS: Microsoft Windows 7, Configuration.  MCTS: Windows 7 and Office 2010, Deploying.  MCTS: Microsoft Windows Vista, Configuration.  CompTIA Healthcare IT  Security+  Network+ Additional Information Operating Systems: Windows Server 2008R2, 2008, 2003; Windows 7, Vista, XP, Linux    Networking: LAN; WAN; VLAN; WLAN; Persistent VPN; VPN for Remote Users; RAS; TCP/IP;  DHCP; DNS; WINS; FTP; SFTP; SMTP; SAMBA