Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator E-Mail Management 2003 to 2008 SQL Server  DNS Server  Database  Desktop  Networks Management  Network Appliances  Network Architecture  VMWare  Cisco  NAS and SAN  MS Office X  Virus Software  Cyber Security  Applications Management  Services and Support  Troubleshooting  Staff Management  Project Management Education BS ITT Technical Institute - San Dimas, CA December 2017 Associates in Applied Science in Network Technology Heald Institute of Technology - San Francisco, CA 1997 Associates in Applied Science in Computer Science and Electronics San Francisco City College - San Francisco, CA 1996 AS in Business Administration/Marketing Dale Carnegie Center - San Francisco, CA Additional Information Problem Solving Skills  Strong verbal and written communication  Customer Service  Risk Management    Guild Mortgage - Emeryville, CA April 2002 - Jan 2016.  Information System Manager/Consultant    ? Server Management Access Controls, manage files, disk space, SAN, and Backup allocations.  ? Risk Management assessment, design, implementation  ? Asset Management development, implementation, user on and off boarding  ? AD Management and Monitoring Add, delete, and manage, policies overview and implementation for Users, Groups, and Domains.  ? Servers and Systems Security Research, testing, acquisition implementation  ? Administration, installation and maintenance of Mortgage Cadence, Calyx Point, Lending QB, Mortgage Builder  ? Software, hardware and vendor research, assessment, liaison  ? Help Desk supervision and ticketing system updates and corrections  ? Plan and administer new technologies for company and clients.  ? Vendor research, point of contact, assessment, acquisition, implementation, training, and support  ? Remote locations architecture, network implementation, training, and support  ? Partner with Operations/Production business units and other areas of the company to ensure all requests are prioritized, scheduled, and implemented/completed in a timely manner.  ? Lead IT teams in the development, design, implementation, and maintenance of all information systems and projects for the organization. Security, Risk, Policies  ? Assign and monitor all staff projects to ensure proper completion of task in a timely and cost effective manner.  ? Prepared Board of Directors monthly report, present report directly to Board  ? Daily staff operations monitoring  ? Tier 3 Network, Infrastructure, Administration, Applications, desktop support  ? Strong knowledge and use of Remedy Service Management Business Software  ? Reporting, delegation, monitor, and analysis  ? Staff and clients software, hardware, and strategic training  ? IS Staff hiring, training, reviews and off site-training monitoring, disciplinary reviews  ? Project Management for changes, planning, scheduling, implementation, troubleshooting monitor    Insight Global July 2000 - July 2010.  Network Engineer/ System Administrator/Lead Support/Consultant.  Assigned To:    Yahoo Inc.  Google, Inc.  VMWare  Hewlett-Packard  Washington Mutual  Merrill Lynch  Bank of America  Wells Fargo Bank  Charles Schwab  NASA  US Navy  Charles Schwab Brokerage  InfoParnerts  Del Monte  Pacific Gas and Electric Company  Yellow Pages  AAA Auto Insurance  Kaiser Permanente  Chevron/Texaco  Stanford Medical School  Lucile Packard Children's Hospital  John Muir Medical  Genentech  Perot Systems  Unisys    ? Management, installation, troubleshooting AD, SQL, Exchange, Linux, All windows desktop OS, Mac X  ? Troubleshooting Cisco, SonicWall, and Wireless infrastructure  ? Manage, maintain, troubleshoot, and monitor over 2,000 networks and domains with over 60,000 users and objects.  ? Project Team Leader  ? Assets Auditor  ? Technologies acquisitions  ? Change Management design, implementation, training, and support.