systems administrator <span class="hl">systems</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span> systems administrator - Makerere University kampala Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience systems administrator Makerere University January 2015 to Present at the college of computing and Information Science, Makerere University.    Duties:  1. Configuration of servers (windows server 2003, windows server 2008)  2. Installation of software and implementation of upgrades.  3. Troubleshooting of client problems and resolving issues of software applications  4. Implementation of security administration  5. Asset tracking  6. Repair and replacement of hardware and software  7. Troubleshooting and resolving network issues Education Certification in Information Sciences College of Computing 2016 Bachelors of Information Technology in Information Technology Makerere University - Kampala, UG 2012 to 2015 certificate Harvard Law School 2015 St. Lawrence school 2010 to 2011 Rubaga Girls school 2006 to 2009 St. Mary's Fairway Primary School. 2004 to 2005 Skills EXCELLENT WRITING (Less than 1 year), SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATION (Less than 1 year) Additional Information * Communication skills  * Systems administration    CAPABILITIES AND COMPETENCES    ? Systems administration, Configuring servers, software installations, hardware management, Network monitoring and troubleshooting for end users.  ? Programming and software development.  ? Web designing, development and web management using content management systems. (Joomla, word press)  ? Photography, photo editing and graphics design Fireworks, Macromedia Dreamweaver, Photoshop CS3)  ? Microsoft office suite use.  ? Programming languages ( PHP, Android)  ? Writing skills and publishing skills (newsletters): Microsoft publisher  ? Database management (MS access, MySQL)  PROJECTS  • Automated lecture attendance confirmation application.  Bachelors' final year project that was designed to reduce registration time by improving efficiency and effectiveness of the class registration process and also support analysis of data and storage of useful information by the lecturers.  • Web management.  During internship, I updated and managed content of the college website by posting and designing the content (newsletters) on www.cit.mak.ac.ug and www.cis, mak.ac.ug    OTHER PERSONAL ABILITIES AND SKILLS  • Ability to work under minimum supervision  • Fast learner, critical and creative thinker    • Basic computer skills  • Excellent writing and verbal communication skills  • Excellent interpersonal skills and able to stand by the principles