Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Austin, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Agc Infotech Pvt Ltd - Ahmedabad, Gujarat February 2014 to June 2015 Responsibilities  • Create Users and Assign Activity group to them as per requirement.   • Roles and Authorization Management, Profile Modification.  • Scheduling and managing Background Jobs.  • Printer spool administration (SPAD) and support for printer Setup.  • Creating and Modifying Operation modes.   • Creating/Maintaing JCO RFc between ABAP and Java system.  • Daily administrative tasks include monitoring system logs, work processes, locks and updates.  • Made backup strategy for all the server. Scheduling of backup and monitoring the backup.     Accomplishments  • Installation, configuration and maintenance of the Basis components in mySAP ERP 2004 ECC 6.0  • Planning and implementing transport system landscape for ECC (DEV, QAS and PRD).  • Configured Transport Management System (STMS).  • Managed successful upgrades for SAP Kernel.  • ABAP Dump Analysis and maintain/create RFC Connectivity.  • Trouble shooting system problems by analyzing system log, update monitoring, alert monitors, system traces, system dumps.  • Applied SAP Notes as per required.     Skills Used  installation, configuration and maintenance of the Basis components in mySAP ERP 2004 ECC 6.0  • Planning and implementing transport system landscape for ECC (DEV, QAS and PRD).  • Configured Transport Management System (STMS).  • Managed successful upgrades for SAP Kernel.  • Applied Single patch and support package stacks with SPAM/SAINT.  • Create Users and Assign Activity group to them as per requirement.   • Roles and Authorization Management, Profile Modification.  • Scheduling and managing Background Jobs.  • Printer spool administration (SPAD) and support for printer Setup.  • Client Creation, Client Deletion & Local Client copy according to the business requirement.  • Configured and managed system profiles (RZ10), created instances definitions and operation modes and maintained work process distribution for the instances.  • Creating and Modifying Operation modes.   • Creating/Maintaing JCO RFc between ABAP and Java system.  • ABAP Dump Analysis and maintain/create RFC Connectivity.  • Trouble shooting system problems by analyzing system log, update monitoring, alert monitors, system traces, system dumps. administrator systems Maruti Engimech Project Pvt Ltd - Ahmedabad, Gujarat November 2012 to January 2014 Responsibilities  • Responsible as a Team Member for activities related to support of the R/3, Database and OS Performance.  • Configured Transport Management System (STMS).  • User Management.   • Roles and Authorization Management, Profile Modification.   • Scheduling and management Background Jobs.  • Monitoring of active users and work processes.  • Printer spool administration and support for printer setup.  • Client Creation, Client Deletion and Local Client copy according to the business requirement.  • Creating and modifying Operation Modes.  • Backup as per backup policy.    Accomplishments  • Configured Transport Management System (STMS).  • User Management.   • Roles and Authorization Management, Profile Modification.   • Scheduling and management Background Jobs.  • Monitoring of active users and work processes.  • Printer spool administration and support for printer setup.  • Client Creation, Client Deletion and Local Client copy according to the business requirement.  • Creating and modifying Operation Modes.  • Backup as per backup policy.    Skills Used  • Responsible as a Team Member for activities related to support of the R/3, Database and OS Performance.  • Configured Transport Management System (STMS).  • User Management.   • Roles and Authorization Management, Profile Modification.   • Scheduling and management Background Jobs.  Creating and modifying Operation Modes.  • Backup as per backup policy.  Printer spool administration and support for printer setup.  • Client Creation, Client Deletion and Local Client copy according to the business requirement. Systems Engineer MLC solution Pvt Ltd - Ahmedabad, Gujarat April 2012 to October 2012 Responsibilities  • Monitoring of active users and work processes.   • Monitoring user background jobs.   • Client Creation. Client copy Local/Remote.  • Creating and modifying Operation Modes.  • Backup as per backup policy. Education Bachelor's in Electrical Engineering Ahmedabad Institute od Techanology - Ahmedabad, Gujarat 2007 to 2011