Linux Administrator Linux <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Linux Administrator Mankato, MN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Linux Administrator ECIL - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2014 to July 2016 India  Responsibilities:  • Installed, configured and upgraded RHEL 5/6/7 on Sun Servers using Jumpstart and Linux using kickstart installation and SUSE Linux  servers manually.  • Performed LAMP installation and configuration on Ubuntu, Red hat and amazon Linux instances.  • Experience in Virtualizing RedHat servers using vSphere 4.1/5.0 and managed ESXi servers using vCenter and worked with ESXi  Clusters.  • Created Bash, Shell & python scripts for various system Administration tasks to automate repeated processes. Created shell scripts  for automating the CRON jobs for daily maintenance and updates.  • Extensive experience in monitoring the servers using Nagios and Splunk  • Experience in configuration of NIS, NIS+, DNS, DHCP, NFS, LDAP, SAMBA, SQUID, postfix, send mail, FTP, remote access, security  management and Security trouble shooting skills.  • Good understanding of OSI Model, TCP/IP protocol suite (IP, ARP, TCP, UDP, SMTP, FTP, and TFTP).  • implemented and maintained an Apache Tomcat /MySQL/PHP, LDAP, LAMP web service environment.  • Installation and configuration of JBoss, Web Logic, Web Sphere 5.1/6.0 Application Server on Solaris and Linux boxes.  • Worked on Splunk as a monitoring tool for peak performance by troubleshooting, monitoring and security investigations. Monitored  the Splunk infrastructure (Identify bad searches, dashboards and overall health of Splunk) and collaborate with respective teams to improve performance.  • Installation, Maintenance and Administration of RHEL, SUSE and CentOS on VMS and physical server.  • Experienced with volumes creation, resizing and troubleshoot to the client's development/production environment using Logical  Volume Manage (LVM).  • Experienced in Manage file systems using Software RAID and recover an array, manage file systems using Logical Volume Management,  resize file systems and protect them with LVM Snapshots.  • Installed, upgraded and managed packages via RPM and YUM package management.  • Adding, removing, or updating user accounts information, resetting passwords etc. and configuring, administrating Cron Jobs.  • Administered tasks like user and password management, allocating quotas to users as well as system startup and shutdown, monitoring  and partitioning.  • Extensively involved in troubleshooting bottlenecks of Memory, CPU, Devices and Network using ps, vmstat, iostat, top, telnet,  nslookup, traceroute, netstat, sar, snoop and nfsstat commands and tuning the performance.  • Regular disk management like adding and replacing hard drives in existing servers and workstations. Creating partitions according to requirements, creating new file system or growing existing one over the hard drives and managing the file system.  • Installation, Configuration and Maintenance of samba, Apache Tomcat, WebSphere and JBoss servers in Linux environment.  • Worked on scripting bash and set cron jobs for disk management and CPU performance parameters.  • Identify SAN, troubleshoot SAN Issues, build Physical Volumes, Volume Groups, and Logical Volumes, build File Systems, extend File  Systems on Live Production servers, mount & unmounting NFS and NAS File Systems.  • Worked on various networking tools such as SSH, telnet, rlogin, TCP dump, FTP and ping to troubleshoot daily networking issues.  • Provided 24/7 on call support on Linux Production Servers. Responsible for maintaining security on RedHat Linux  • Day to day job included but not limited to handling Tickets, Monitoring, Troubleshooting and maintenance. Systems Administrator HCL - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2013 to April 2014 India  Responsibilities:  • Experience in Installing, Configuring and Maintaining RedHat Linux (RedHat Enterprise Linux 5.x & 6.x) Servers, Ubuntu and Windows  2003/ 2008 R2 Servers on Power Edge Model rack, HP blade centers like HP C6000 & C7000 and Cisco UCS environment.  • Worked with variety of Filesystem management software such as Veritas Volume Manager, LVM, ZFS, SVM  • Created JIRA intake request pages for multiple teams across LOB.  • Planned, Documented and implemented Disaster Recovery policies.  • Experience in migration of consumer data from one production server to another production server over the network with the help of Bash and Perl scripting.  • Created Linux Virtual Machines using VMware Virtual Client and migrated servers between ESX hosts. Identified and resolved the infrastructure related issues on VMware Infrastructure.  • Installed and configured Nagios for monitoring the network bandwidth and the hard drives status.  • Worked on Version controller like GIT and GITHUB.  • Configured yum repository server for installing packages from a centralized server.  • Management of RedHat Linux user accounts, groups, directories and file permissions.  • Applied the Clustering Topology that meets High Availability and Failover requirement for performance and functionality.  • Installation, Configuration and administration of DNS, LDAP, NFS, NIS, NIS+ and Sendmail on RedHat Linux/Debian Servers.  • Installed, upgraded and managed packages via RPM and YUM package management.  • Installation and configuration of PostgreSQL database on RedHat/Debian Servers.  • Performed Disk management with the help of LVM (Logical Volume Manager)  • Installed and configured Apache on Linux and Solaris and configured Virtual hosts and applied SSL certificates.  • Provided support for building the server, patching, user administration tasks, deployment, software installation, performance tuning  and troubleshooting and KVM.  • Provided 24/7 on call support on Linux Production Servers. Responsible for maintaining security on Redhat Linux. Education Master of Science in Information Technology in Information Security Risks Minnesota State University May 2018 Skills LDAP (3 years), NFS (3 years), APACHE (3 years), LINUX (3 years), SCRIPTING (3 years), System Admin, System Administrator, Linux Administrator, Vmware Additional Information TECHNICAL SUMMARY  • 3+ years of experience in Installation, Configuration, Management of RHEL, CentOS, Ubuntu, Windows Servers in an Agile environment.  • Experience in System Administration, System Builds, Server builds, Installs, Upgrades, Patches, Migration, Troubleshooting, Security,  Backup, Disaster Recovery, Performance Monitoring and Fine-tuning on UNIX and Linux Systems.  • Extensively worked With VMware ESXi, vCenter Server, Host Clustering with HA, DRS, Replication Manager 5.x/6.0, Site Recovery  Manager, vMotion, Physical to Virtual Migration and Managing SAN Data stores with, iSCSI, NFS & FC.  • Installation, Configuration and Management of RDBMS and NoSQL tools such as SQL Server, MySQL, DB2, PostgreSQL, MongoDB and  Cassandra.  • Experience in installation, configuration and administration of DNS, LDAP, NFS, NIS, NIS+ and Sendmail on RedHat Linux/Debian  Servers.  • Hands-on experience in Designing, configuring and deploying Amazon Web Services (AWS) utilizing the AWS stack (Including EC2, S3,  VPC, RDS, ELB, Auto Scaling, Cloud Watch, Cloud Front, Cloud Formation, Route53, IAM, Elastic Cache, SNS, AWS Import / Export,  Kinesis, Lambda & Security groups)  • Hands-on experience working with Puppet Enterprise and Puppet Open Source. Installed, configured, upgraded and managed Puppet  Master, Agents & Databases.  • Hands-on experience in writing Chef Cookbook, recipes to automate installation of applications, middleware infrastructure like Apache  Tomcat and configuration tasks for new environments.  • Experience with Version Control Systems like GIT, GITHUB, CVS and SVN (Subversion)  • Experience with RPM and YUM package installations and Updating RHEL systems.  • Experience in NIC bonding/NIC Teaming configuration in Linux/UNIX/Windows/VMware systems to increase the bandwidth or  redundancy based on requirement by the application.  • Managing DNS, LDAP, FTP, Tomcat & Apache web servers on Linux servers.  • Installed, Configured, Managed Monitoring Tools such as Splunk and Nagios for Resource Monitoring/Network Monitoring/Log Trace  Monitoring.  • Experience in developing Cron jobs and Shell Scripts (Shell, Python) for automating administration tasks like file system management,  process management, backup and restore  • In depth understanding of the principles and best practices of software configuration management (SCM) in Agile, Scrum and Waterfall  methodologies.    TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems CentOS/RHEL 3/4/5,6,7, Windows, Ubuntu, Unix  Scripting Languages Shell and Python  DevOps Tools Chef, Puppet, Ansible, Jenkins, Docker  Web/ Application Server Tomcat, Apache DB2, Oracle  Network Protocols DHCP, DNS, SNMP, SMTP, NETSTAT, NFS, NIS, NSLOOKUP, TCP/IP, FTP, TFTP  Cloud Platform AWS Cloud (EC2, S3, VPC, RDS, ELB, Auto Scaling, Cloud Watch, Cloud Front,  CloudFormation/Terraform, Route53, IAM, Elastic Cache, SNS, AWS Import / Export,  Lambda & Security groups)  Monitoring Tools Nagios, Splunk and CloudWatch  Virtualization Tools VMware, VirtualBox  Defect Tracking Tools Jira and Bugzilla