Database Administrator Database <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Washington, DC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Total Merchant Services - Plano, TX May 2013 to Present Responsibilities  Perform critical enterprise tasks: repair corruption, warehouse secure data, calculate sales commissions, estimate financial gains and losses, and analyze data to recommend options to increase profits and reduce costs    Develop annual financial reports for approximately 20,000 Field Agents by analyzing trends across large, daily data sets to identify emerging risks that could affect nearly 500,000 customers    Prepare presentations and brief executive leadership on the Incident Support Team, its activities, needs, and procedures to support customers    Accomplishments  Unify the Incident Support Team and streamline processes to improve productivity and quality    Received numerous commendations throughout the enterprise for having a positive upbeat attitude while efficiently and effectively providing solutions which gained an excellent year-end review two years in a row that was reserved for the 10% top most performers    Pushed forward automation initiatives saving the company time and money.    Skills Used  Use Microsoft SQL Server to develop, deliver, and maintain SSRS, SSIS, SQL jobs, stored procedures, user functions, new installations, PII and PCI compliance scripts, tracing, and backups    Through effective communication and innovative thought processes I help push the CIO's dream of a more technology driven company than what we had been before. Systems Administrator FurChange America - Southlake, TX August 2011 to April 2013 Responsibilities  Plan, develop, install, test, and maintain numerous mission-critical systems, databases and  applications including compensation, social media, web, email, and backups.    Accomplishments  Built the company's infrastructure through leadership lead initiatives    Maintained the company's IT Security structure and lead changes to move in house systems to the cloud    Effectively communicated our commissions between the Company Executives and Software Development Company    Skills Used  Windows Server and Active Directory.  Linux, Unix. Mac OS X.  Network Hardware  Routers, switches, wireless APs, firewalls,  VPNs and switches (e.g., Cisco, Netgear).  RAID server cards. Mobile device  management (e.g., iOS, Android). VoIP  phone systems. Network printers and print  queues.