Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - LICN Work Experience Systems Administrator LICN February 2018 to Present Managed over 1400 devices in a mixed OS environment, including managing chromebooks via G Suite and Windows devices via SCCM, active directory and powershell.  ? Implemented networking changes such as provisioning ports, implementing new routes and VLANS, troubleshooting damaged networking equipment and utilizing NAT for laboratory environments.  ? Deployed educational software with powershell scrips, SCCM task sequences and as SCCM packages.  ? Maintained a mixed environment of virtual, physical and cloud based servers and services in an educational environment.  ? Maintained internet filtering and a web proxy for SSL decryption of https traffic.  ? Deployed new CUCM phones, implemented new phone lines and fixed phone line routing issues inside CUCM  ? Updated and improved database structure of student and classroom data including improving query times, normalizing tables and building new queries. System Administrator PC Magic December 2016 to February 2018 Maintained Active Directories at multiple client sites, including creating GPOs, deploying logon scripts and improving domain structure.  ? Installed and configured Watchguard and Edgemax routers and switches, including deploying zone based firewalls, implementing vlans and creating vpn tunnels.  ? Worked on large scale projects such as virtualizing and migrating 10 physical servers, 40 workstations and related networking equipment from NY to FL.  ? Provided remote server and desktop support for client side issues via SCCM and teamviewer agents. Systems Administrator, March Nicomp International July 2016 to July 2016 Provided SQL server support including optimizing and creating queries, improving the design of the database and implementing upgrades.  ? Created and deployed sharepoint environments for clients per their needs, including automating list updates and integrating internal client software into the environment.  ? Ran Microsoft Community course classes for business clients including how to manipulate SQL with Excel via power query and SQL querying classes.  ? Created and maintained training environments for Microsoft Certified Trainers to use during their lessons with business clients. Education Bachelor's of Science Northeastern University January 2008