DevOps Engineer/ Systems Administrator DevOps Engineer/<span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> DevOps Engineer/ Systems Administrator - Micro Focus • 5+ plus years as working as a Contractor, I got an opportunity to work on various projects as an UNIX Systems Administrator, and as a DevOps Engineer focused on Building Servers using Automation Tools, Systems maintenance, Monitoring, Systems security, and Network administration.  • Experience in administration of Redhat Linux, Solaris, SuSe operating systems.  • Experience in automation using Puppet and involved in developing Manifest and Modules for System and Application configuration Management.  • Deployed Puppet, Puppet Dashboard, and PuppetDB for configuration management to existing infrastructure.  • Experience in supporting Cloud environments including Private and Public cloud like Amazon Web Services, Openstack Helion, and Rackspace.  • Involved in supporting 100+Cloud Instances running Linux and Windows on AWS, experience with Elastic IP, Security Groups and Virtual Private Cloud in AWS.  • Experience installing Puppet agents and pushing Manifests/Modules to 500+ Puppet clients.  • Used AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) to create users and groups and to provide access to different AWS services, by enabling permissions to them.  • Experience in installing Redhat Linux on HP Hardware, Dell, Cisco and IBM HW.  • Worked on blade systems which include HP 7000c with BL460c and Dell M1000e with M600 servers for the installation of Redhat Linux EL 4.x, 5.x, 6.x on VMware ESX 3.5, 4.1,5.0.  • Experience with installation of applications which include Apache 2.2.x, WebLogic, Oracle, Informatica, CA eTrust etc.  • Experience in patching Redhat/ SUSE/ Ubuntu Linux servers by using repositories and Redhat Satellite server.  • Worked with F5load balancers, HA proxies that improve the overall performance of applications by decreasing the burden on servers associated with managing and maintaining application and network sessions.  • Experience in installing, configuring, supporting and troubleshooting Unix/Linux Networking services and protocols like NIS, NIS+, LDAP, DNS, NFS, DHCP, NAS, FTP, SSH and SAMBA.  • Experience with high-end enterprise servers Sun T2000, 5240, M5000, 6800, 4800, HP ProLiant DL 380, 385, 580, IBM HS22, HS12, LS22 Blade center Servers.  • Experience in Shell scripting using bash and PERL  • Experience in Performance Monitoring of CPU, Memory, Disks, Network using various monitoring tools like Nagios, Icinga.  • Extensive experience with Troubleshooting of issues with applications, network, user hardware, naming services etc.  • Experience in Network Configuration, Performance Tuning, Security Hardening.  • Experience in configuration of naming services like NIS, DNS etc. on Linux and Solaris.  • Strong analytical, diagnostics, troubleshooting skills to consistently deliver productive technological solutions.  • Implemented OpenSSH based security for the Redhat and Solaris machines.  • A good team player with strong communication skills and an inquisitive mind to learn more. Work Experience DevOps Engineer/ Systems Administrator Micro Focus December 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked very closely with the Development Team in Migrating the Micro Focus ConnectedMX Application from Helion Cloud Platform to AWS Cloud.  • Responsible for monitoring the Product and Systems Health check using Icinga and Cloud Watch Monitoring Tools and integrating them with Slack and Outlook email to get notification.  • Worked with tools like Terraform and AWS Services like Cloud Formation templates in building the Pre-production and Production environments and for performing CMX Agent releases and Upgrades.  • Worked with Version Control Tools like Git and AWS Codecommit.  • Worked on AWS Cloud to create Linux instances and used various AWS services like IAM (Identity and Access Management), Elastic Block Storage, S3, Route 53, RDS, Cloud Formation, CodeBuild, Code Commit, CodePipeline and Elastic Load Balancing.  • Performing SAML SSO(Single Sign-On) Integrations of External Customers with ADFS, Azure, Okta and other Identity Providers to create a secure and trusted Connection between our Service Provider and Customer's IdP.  • Improve team efficiency by documenting production incidents in Confluence and fixing bugs from assigned tickets in Jira and Interacting with Networking Team, Cloud Team, Storage Team and Support Teams on how to improve the Product.  • Setting up of the High Availability clusters for Oozie, LDAP, RabbitMQ using Pacemaker and Corosync.  • Performed HP Vertica Installation and Vertica Management Console which are useful for high performance relational DB and is a Hadoop integrated Tool.  • Did Hadoop and HBase installations and cluster setup replications.  • Worked on Oozie to run ETL jobs daily and collect data from the HBase and Postgres database and copy to the Vertica DB.  • Involved in performing major upgrades and releases of the Product.  • Experience working with teams in an Agile development environment.  • Involved in Planning of Product development and Product Release.  • Contributing towards AWS automated deployments like RDS backups, KMS, Cloudwatch, and OS Patching etc. Systems Administrator CVS - Woonsocket, RI October 2015 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked on automating builds on Helion Cloud using python scripts with the novactl configs, and on AWS Cloud using Cloud formation templates.  • Have experience working with Openstack services like Nova, Neutron, Cinder, Swift, Glance, Horizon and Heat and also with the AWS services.  • Configured puppet to setup CMX Environment.  • Involved in the build and deployment of the Lab, Pre-production and Prod CMX environments over Private/Public/Hybrid Cloud.  • Deployed Nagios and Icinga and written some custom checks along with my team to monitor the memory, processes, services, load and cpu of the machines.  • Integrated the Nagios checks with puppet for automatic deployment of checks via puppet.  • Configuration of the ADFS, Okta, Azure external IDP setup with Keycloak and integrating the customers Active Directory to our ldap.  • Responsible for Identity Access Management, User Management and Privileged access management through Active Directory using LDAP (Lightweight Directory Access Protocol)  • Streamlined applications delivery to get applications out to customers faster and working alongside the Applications team, Infrastructure Team and the Business support teams.  • Performed tasks on F5 load balancer like installing and renewing SSL certificates and bouncing servers with performance issues after taking them out of the server pools.  • Have experience setting up of various components like DNS, LDAP, SMTP, Notifications, RabbitMQ queuing, Monitoring, Logging, Vertica, Oozie, Hbase, Hadoop, Postgres and HA proxies.  • Patch and package administration for installation of patches as per the company policy and installation of packaged application.  • Involved in performing major upgrades and releases of the CMX backup tool.  • Implemented tasks through cronjobs by adding scripts to run at specific times in the crontab.  • Involved in day to day tasks in monitoring and maintenance of environment and troubleshooting the issues and fixing them.  • Worked with Atlassian Tools like Jira and Confluence and participated in the Documentation of the procedures. Systems administrator Comcast - Philadelphia, PA June 2015 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked on a very large environment with more than 10000+ servers on different Data centers, vCenters and AWS East&West regions, running different operating systems which are managed by Puppet and CF Engine.  • Coordinated in building UNIX/ Linux platforms for different applications, troubleshooting and creating technical documentation. Responsible for ensuring infrastructure integrity, optimal performance and maximum service availability by recommending best practices for component maintenance, identifying problems and inefficiencies in the current environment and making strategic recommendations for future improvements.  • Managing and supporting a multi-cloud environment which includes AWS, and Azure  • Worked with Multiple puppet masters and multiple DB servers Postgre SQL which is active on 1 server and replicated to another standby instance, and used Round robin and vip to distribute the puppet traffic from the agents to all the masters equally.  • Used rspec-puppet tool to verify that our Puppet manifests satisfy certain expectations without even having to run Puppet. Based on this testing framework for Ruby programs, wrote test cases for Puppet manifests that are especially useful to catch bugs caused by regressions and refactoring problems.  • Extensively worked on AWS cloud to create both Windows and Linux instances and used various AWS services like Elastic Block Storage, S3, Route 53, RDS, Cloud Formation, Amazon Elastic Cache and Elastic Load Balancing.  • Cleared expired certs in our legacy environment and generated new certificates in all the agents and masters and Puppet DB servers, and signed them with the CA server.  • Responsible for writing modules and manifests in the Puppet server and to handle the client servers by defining them using node definitions.  • Used Foreman tool along with Puppet for managing, provisioning and configuring servers and to automate tasks to easily deploy applications on VMs, bare-metal and cloud instances.  • Installed Puppet-lint using the gem provider, to check style inconsistencies and to automatically verify code for compliance with the style guide.  • Used Gitorious open-source & migrated to Git-Hub Enterprise as Source code hosting service.  • Implemented Choke-Point architecture in our environment for the users to login through the jump-servers, and to prevent users from directly logging into the systems.  • Installation and administration of DNS, NIS & DHCP servers on Linux servers.  • Extensively involved in troubleshooting bottlenecks of Memory, CPU, Devices and Network using ps, vmstat, iostat, netstat, sar, snoop, nfsstat and sar commands, tuning the performance.  • Package management using RPM, YUM and UP2DATE in Red Hat Linux.  • Worked on Firewall implementation & Load balancer between various Linux and Solaris servers.  • Configured Mcollective-2.8.2 while working on large environments, to communicate with many servers and to push/apply the changes on all of the puppet servers at once.  • Worked on both Legacy puppet with versions 2.6 to 3.4 and with other versions 3.5,3.6,3.7 and 3.8 which uses Hiera to manage the classes through the hiera.yaml hierarchical structure to keep the site-specific data out of the manifests.  • Responsible for actively involved in Change board meetings and responsible for creating changes and implementing them mainly in Production environment.  • Maintaining virtual machines in VMware Environment and performed network configurations and other related activities.  • Remote monitoring and management of servers using Nagios and PRTG Network Monitor and monitoring of servers in Amazon AWS cloud using Cloud Watch.  • Performed system monitoring, upgrade, performance tuning, backup and recovery. Troubleshooting and providing on call support for fixing the system related issues and maintenance task of the system.  • Implementation of naming services like DNS using BIND and NIS.  • Used Jira and Service now for ticketing systems.  • Creating/resizing volumes, performing volume level data copy using ndmpcopy and snapmirror. Systems administrator American Airlines - Dallas, TX December 2014 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Responsible to build Public Cloud Environment instances and to manage Firewall and Load balancing between various servers.  • Working on Microsoft and Linux Operating Systems (Windows Server 2012, 2008, 2003, Windows XP, Debian, Red Hat, CentOS etc.)  • Used Hiera, a value lookup tool with Puppet for configuring data and to make Puppet better by keeping site-specific data out of manifests. Managed 250+ Linux servers using Puppet master server and pushed OS related updated using custom manifests.  • Rebuild of the both Linux (Redhat/SUSE/Ubuntu) OS when the server is crashed, using the established profile settings. Responsible for writing scripts to automate building of Windows and RHEL servers in all environments including Test, Dev, DR and Production.  • Deployed Puppet for automated management of machine configurations.  • System disk partitioning, mirroring root disk drive and configuring device groups in LINUX and UNIX environment. Creating and authenticating windows user accounts on Citrix Server.  • Troubleshooting and resolving issues related to applications, hardware and users. Created and mounted NFS file systems for different platforms.  • In installing new servers and configure hardware, peripherals, services, settings, directories, storage etc in accordance with standards and project/operational requirements.  • Installation Redhat & SUSE Linux on Cisco and HP HW using Kickstart.  • Annual Participation in Disaster Recovery (DR) and power down Activities.  • Created the user accounts and profiles, assigned permissions using Active Directory, a directory service which contains information of all user accounts and which optimizes the network traffic, providing the user logon and authentication services using Kerberos.  • Involved in health check of servers after patching / rebooting and to see all the services of Linux and Windows servers on AWS Cloud and physical servers are healthy.  • To perform daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware, networking equipment, server resources, system and key processes, reviewing system, error and application logs and verifying completion of scheduled jobs and tasks.  • Troubleshooting various production related outages. Systems administrator Sun Trust Bank - Atlanta, GA March 2014 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Installation of RHEL Linux 5/6 operating systems on HP & Cisco UCS HW.  • Installation Redhat & SUSE Linux on Cisco and HP HW using Kickstart PXE and Cobbler.  • Involved in supporting Virtualization using VMWare ESX 4/5 and Redhat KVM. Involved in Change Control Management and documentation of the procedures.  • Performed disk administration using LVM, Linux Volume Manager (LVM) and Veritas Volume Manager.  • Installed VMWare ESX4.1 to perform virtualization of RHEL/SUSE/OEL servers.  • Performance monitoring on Linux servers using iostat, netstat, vmstat, sar, top & prstat.  • Installed and configured database like MySQL, Mongo server.  • Configure RAID on MD3000 Disk Array. used mdadm commands  • Worked on POSTFIX mail servers.  • Installed and configured DHCP , DNS, NFS  • Configured iptables on Linux servers.  • Troubleshooting on Sun Java System Web Server 6.0 and Apache 1.3.x web server on Solaris with experience in installing SSL certificates.  • Performed Package administration on Linux using rpm, yum and Satellite server.  • Performed kernel upgrades in the Linux Servers to stable releases.  • Performed tuning of the kernel parameters for the better performance of the operating system and tuning TCP parameters and analyzed performance of resources like CPU, Memory, Disk and swap using native commands like prstat, vmstat, sar, iostat, swap etc  • User, Group management for all the UNIX servers.  • Modifying/ Writing scripts in Bash for optimizing day to day administration  • Performed Inventory management, Server decommissioning and adding new servers to the list.  • Configuration of NFS servers and Samba Servers to share the resources across multiple environments.  • Involved in developing custom scripts using Python Ruby & Shell (bash, ksh) to automate jobs. Education Master's in Computer Science Software Engineering in Computer Science Software Engineering Stratford University 2013 Skills DNS (3 years), LDAP (3 years), Linux (2 years), Nagios (2 years), SSL (2 years) Additional Information Operating Systems:  RHEL 5.x,6.x,7.x ,Sun Solaris , VMWare ESX ,SUSE 9.x,10.x,11.x,Oracle Enterprise Linux 4,5, CentOS 5.x,6.x,7, WindowsNT4,Windows98/2000/2003/2008/XP/2012R2.    Hardware  Dell PoweredgeR710,Blade Center Servers M710,M905,M610,M710HD,Blade Chassis M100c/Modular Blade Enclosure.HP Proliant DL series,C3000 and C7000 Enclosures,BL280C,BL460C,BL600C,BL20,BL40,Integrity Servers, Blade Enclosures H,S and Eseries, Blades HS22,HS21,JS43,JS23,JS12,PowerSeries    Languages Scripting, PERL, C, C++, PHP, SQL, HTML, JavaScript.  Databases RDS, POSTGRESSQL, MYSQL.  Networking  TCP/IP, DNS, NFS, NIS, SSH, DHCP, Cisco Routers / Switches(MDS),Nexus 5000 and LAN, Open SSH, Open SSL, SSL, SSH, LDAP, Open LDAP,NIS,NIS+,NFS    Tools  Puppet, Foreman, Hiera, Redhat Cluster, VMware, VERITAS Storage Foundation Suite, Linux Imaging Software, NAGIOS, Icinga, MRTG    Web Technologies Tomcat 5.x/4.x/3.x & Apache Server 1.x/2, IIS, HIS, ESX 2.5.1, 25.2 & 3.0 beta.