Technician Technician Boise, ID Detail-oriented systems administrator with 5 years of high-quality technical service experience in a large corporate environment for internal and external clients ranging from executives to end-users. Looking to provide exceptional administration, troubleshooting and repairing of Windows servers, SQL databases, switches, backbones, virtual machines, networks, and remote support tools on both unclassified and classified enclaves. Work Experience Technician Navy and Marine Corps Intranet Tier 1/2 technician - Boise, ID May 2018 to Present • Provide remote support to ~700,000 users including military and civilian clients.  • Ensure proper user capabilities for e-mail, internet, and intranet.  • Use PowerShell to run several scripts for break fix operations.  • Manage VPNs to ensure users NMCI connectivity from remote locations around the world. Technology Support Representative University of Idaho - Moscow, ID September 2017 to May 2018 • Provided technical support to students and employees of the University of Idaho.  • Ensured proper e-mailing capabilities throughout the entire network.  • Ensured proper use of hardware and software.  • Trained other Technology Support Representatives on proper use of administrative technologies. Information Systems Technician- Systems Administrator United States Navy San Diego, CA June 2013 to August 2017 • Oversaw the daily performance of computer systems.  • Used vSphere to manage 25 servers conducting daily maintenance.  • Used Active Directory (ADUC) to maintain and manage user profiles, workstations, domain controllers, and group policy objects for domestic and foreign users on both unclassified and classified networks.  • Ensured proper installation of cables, operating systems and software.  • Entered commands and observed system function to verify correct operations and detect errors.  • Maintained records of daily data communication transactions, problems and remedial actions taken.  • Trained users in the proper use of hardware or software.  • Ensured proper release and maintenance of all systems.  • Created and maintained databases, network accounts and programs for specific department needs.  • Managed a team of 15 technicians ensuring high quality service to all customers.  • Processed automated data for numerous systems and servers.  • Microsoft Exchange Server Management ensuring proper e-mailing capabilities.  • File server management ensuring all users were able to access and use the files they needed correctly.  • Managed the Blackberry Enterprise server to ensure proper handle and use of mobile devices. Education Information Systems Information Systems Technician School - Pensacola, FL 2014 High School Diploma United High School-Laredo - Laredo, TX 2013 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY (4 years), EXCHANGE (4 years), MICROSOFT EXCHANGE (4 years), DATABASE (Less than 1 year), DATABASE SYSTEMS (Less than 1 year) Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+CE October 2013 to October 2019 Additional Information SKILLS  -Networks Administration -Active Directory  - Systems Administration -Information Assurance  -Server Management -Managing multiple projects simultaneously  -SQL database systems -Windows Server 2008 R2/2013  -Microsoft Exchange -VMWare