Contractor Contractor Contractor - Airbus Helicopters/Tech Mahindra Aubrey, TX To obtain an Information Technology position to fully utilize my technical and communication skills for the economic and strategic growth of the company. Work Experience Contractor Airbus Helicopters/Tech Mahindra - Grand Prairie, TX December 2017 to Present Systems Engineer   • Responsible for maintaining backups and data availability for environments spanning 10 locations across North America, to include Mexico and Canada consisting of 1,300 VMs and 30 physical servers overall.  • Successfully orchestrated migration of data of 3 major sites from legacy backup platforms to new Cohesity backup hardware, which increased reliability of backups, and improved data availability and retention • Coordinated and implemented the consolidation of multiple backup solutions such as Backup Exec, Data Domains, raw disk targeted array, one off system backups and VDP into one using Veritas Netbackup.  • Assisted remote team at Airbus North America location with transitioning all backups from faulty Netbackup appliance to new Cohesity solution, contributed to project as the overall architect.  • Provided support to Airbus Helicopters team with migration of fileshare data for 600+ users from unreliable, off-warranty hardware to HP 3PAR storage by backing up the data with VMware VDP.  • Reliable and consistent responses to end users' requests to restore missing data, with 95% of requests being resolved in under an hour improving the overall trust with the technology group and data protection.  • Works closely with vendors in the event of appliance/backup/restore failures • Proactively coordinating with teams from Airbus North America, and Airbus Helicopters to completely virtualize their environments to ensure quicker and more reliable data protection and recovery.  • Strong team player able to contribute across a variety of technical disciplines ranging from Active Directory, Storage, Servers, best practices and can succeed independently when needed.  • Support a global network with delegated restrictive rights differing between environments required a sharp understanding of the environment and high flexibility to work in vastly different ways per customer needs.  • Write documentation on a regular basis to include contributing to the team document share or lower tier support teams who need mentoring or documented guidance to perform repetitive tasks.  • Able to communicate in-depth technical details into understandable terms for non-technical stakeholders.  • Consistently follow risk assessment, change control and auditing requirements to work within various organizations currently adhering to governance requirements for US contracts and US manufacturing. Systems Engineer PlainsCapital Bank - Irving, TX August 2016 to December 2017 • Supports environment consisting of about 1,000 VMs, predominantly running Windows Server 2012 R2.  • Responsible for the integration, verification and testing of infrastructure and systems.  • Maintain the security, patching, and health of remote Cisco E-Series blade servers with CIMC Supervisor.  • Assisted team lead with upgrade of Cisco B-Series hardware for the SQL cluster in our Lubbock datacenter allowing for a higher compute ratio throughout mission critical databases and finished ahead of schedule.  • Allocated network storage space based upon application needs, and availability of space on EMC VNX 5700 and VNX 8000 storage pools, with 15% or more available space on all datastores.  • Support remote users and business vendors with VMWare Horizon virtual desktop infrastructure.  • Successfully deployed Windows 10 to all end user machines in the Austin banking market via Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager ahead of project management deadlines.  • Proactively maintained overall environmental health and business uptime with Solarwinds and vRealize Operations Manager monitoring systems providing consistent proactive notification of problems.  • Deployed Virtual Machines with Microsoft Azure in a Single Sign On (SSO) environment.  • Perform daily tasks in VMware such as migrating hosts, moving datastores and monitoring.  • Troubleshoot Server 2012 through various methods such as Event Logs, Ping, engaging application owners, analyzing server architecture and use\roles of servers in the environment.  • Possesses strong support skills and the willingness to engage after hours for the betterment of the customer. Systems Administrator JP Energy Partners - Irving, TX March 2015 to August 2016 • Domain Administrator for single Active Directory forest with multiple domains.  • Deployed new server builds through VMWare templates, then configured servers for domains.  • Created LUNs on EMC VNXe 3200 FAST storage array configuring LUNs for VMWare use.  • Migrated multiple VMWare data stores from slow NexSan and EqualLogic SAN storage to EMC VNXe 3200 for co-location project to build out new datacenter on Cisco UCS platform.  • Helped relocate server racks at CyrusOne data center for expansion to new equipment.  • Experience with multi server environment consisting of virtual and physical servers.  • Administered servers, printers, security updates, patches, wireless access and related equipment.  • Supported server hardware failures and replace hardware as needed to include rack and stack.  • Primary liaison for all storage needs translating department heads goal into practical solutions.  • Collaborated with various teams on different projects such as Customer Relationship Management, Compliance Auditing, Access Control, Virtual Deployment and co-location moves.  • Monitored applications, systems and network resources on a day-to-day basis troubleshooting and resolved problems for a variety of cases ranging from hardware failure to software compatibility.  • Assigned as Virtualization Administrator on Infrastructure team and was responsible for all datastore move from NexSan to VNXe 3200 in addition to VM migration to Cisco UCS.  • Responsible for ensuring Server 2012 environment was patched and notifying leadership, application owner and support teams when applications would not function due to patching.  • Primarily accountable for all 2012 VMs and provided weekly reports for uptime and performance such as CPU, RAM and Disk utilization and drive space available.    United States Air Force - Honorable Discharge -Worldwide Skills Cisco (2 years), Emc (2 years), Emc vnxe (1 year), Equallogic (1 year), Vmware (3 years) Additional Information Related Skills  VMWare 5.x, 6.x, Windows Server 2008-2016, EMC VNXe 3200, VNX 5700, VNX 8000, Dell Equallogic SAN, NexSan, Dell Servers, Basic Networking, Server Administration, Commvault backups, Symantec Backup Exec, Veritas Backup Exec, Veritas Netbackup, Cohesity Backups, EMC Avamar, VMware VDP 6.1, Exchange 2010, Cisco UCS B & E Series Blade Servers, Change Management, Backup and Recovery, policy and procedure documentation.