Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer - TVAR Solutions Manassas, VA Work Experience Systems Engineer TVAR Solutions April 2014 to Present Coordinate and obtain all technical certifications required by manufacturer partners for TVAR Solutions.  • Identify, evaluate and select new manufacturers that align with TVAR Solutions go to market strategy; test aforementioned manufacturers technologies via vendor POCs.  • Interface with select customers, as determined by Sales VP during sales campaign, to initiate technical discussions representing TVAR Solutions' top Partners: VMware, Symantec, HP, Fortinet, Checkpoint, IBM Softlayer, CA Technologies and SourceFire.  • Participate in select marketing events such as intelligence community shows, conference and seminars as determined by senior management.  • Architect and provide management oversight on all technology within TVAR Solutions' internal infrastructure, including daily file level and OS-level backups for Mac environment, Fortinet routing/switching-based technology, WAP-controlled AP's, MAC Server running print services/user authentication, UCaaS phone system management migrated from original SIP on premise install, any and all tools - software and hardware - used internally to be managed, maintained and updated as needed.  • Create and maintain internal Confluence database which includes all TVAR internal HR documentation, Vendor Summaries and Sales Information; add training documentation and white papers specific to technology sold by TVAR solutions' account managers.  • Complete maintenance of all MAC laptops/servers to include Ram & SSD Upgrades/ OS Upgrades/ new hardware migrations if users obtain a new laptop. OS-Level backups for recovery/restore via Time Machine which is virtualized on an OLD Sun BOX running free NAS providing a MAC AFP share.  • Identify customer needs and make suggestions regarding technical direction, including licensing or demoing software as needs are dictated. NOC Systems Administrator Neovera Inc March 2012 to February 2014 Resolve customer technical support calls concerning status of datacenter hardware and applications.  • Monitor a multi-client, 3000+ host network for host down, critical and warning level alerts via Nagios.  • Reset employee and customer passwords via Microsoft Active Directory.  • Conduct daily welfare checks on customer and company hardware by way of datacenter walkthroughs.  • Cooordinate maintenance visits, escort and supervise vendor technicians.  • Participate in ticketing and escalation of issues as necessary utilizing JIRA.  • Utilize putty and WinSCP to transfer large files to on-site engineers.  • Monitor, adjust scheduling and document problems with customer backups via Symantec NetBackup.  • Create and maintain pages for a Confluence database of NOC procedures and resources.  • Execute minor maintenance and repairs on non-proprietary customer and company servers.  • Keep minute-by-minute timelines during outages and other major events.  • Log onto customer virtual machines via VMware vCenter and execute welfare checks for Microsoft Exchange. Education Associate of Science in Information Technology ITT Technical Institute - Chantilly, VA March 2012