Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Randallstown, MD Recent Computer Information Systems graduate with network administration knowledge, including back-up, security  management, e-mail systems and applications support. Work Experience Systems Administrator Total Access Urgent Care - Baltimore, MD August 2013 to Present 08/2013 to Current  Total Access - 3517 langrehr rd suite 205A Wndsor Mill MD  Managed firewall, network monitoring and server monitoring both on- and off-site.  Ensured network, system and data availability and integrity through preventative maintenance and upgrades.  Developed and implemented complex Internet and Intranet applications on multiple platforms.  Coordinated with systems partners to finalize designs and confirm requirements.  Provided maintenance and development of bug fixes and patch sets for existing web applications.  Ensured network, system and data availability and integrity through preventative maintenance and upgrades.  Provided documentation on start-up, shut down and first level troubleshooting of processes to help desk staff.  Implemented company policies, technical procedures and standards for preserving the integrity and security of data,  reports and access.  Recommended network security standards to management. Information Systems Consultant Information Systems Support August 2013 to Present 335 Imla St, Baltimore, 21224  Established compatibility with third party software products by developing program for modification and integration.  Provided maintenance and development of bug fixes and patch sets for existing web applications.  Ensured network, system and data availability and integrity through preventative maintenance and upgrades.  Implemented company policies, technical procedures and standards for preserving the integrity and security of data,  reports and access. Education Associate of Arts Baltimore City Community College - Baltimore, MD Present Skills MAINTENANCE (4 years), BACKUPS (Less than 1 year), DATA BACKUP (Less than 1 year), DATABASE (Less than 1 year), DATABASE DESIGN (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Skills  Database design Windows and Linux  System backups Website and portal monitoring  Data backup and retrieval Network upgrades  Excellent communication skills Excellent diagnostic skills  Excellent problem-solving abilities  Data privacy applications  Network maintenance  good understanding and knowledge of Microsoft Office  products