Openstack Systems Engineer Openstack <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Los Gatos, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Openstack Systems Engineer Cisco Systems - San Jose, CA 2015 to Present Openstack Cloud Deployments  Developed python tooling to automate generation of yaml inventory files from standalone cimc and ucsm blade devices dynamically per site to decrease the amount of time spent on data generation. Drove handoffs to Hong Kong team to enable a follow the sun model. Improved provisioning playbooks and opened bugs for puppet code during and after each build in order to prevent blockers for the next build. Responsible for standing up entire cloud from bare metal servers to core Openstack projects globally.     Day to Day Operations  Worked with global team and participated in daily hand offs to APAC. Participated in T4 on call rotation responsible for full stack issues including RCA and long term remediation. Identified, isolated, and worked on bugs specific to the platform, tooling, and deployment pipelines. Wrote and deployed methods of procedure to make improvements to the platform and deploy puppet releases. Documented key processes to ensure organizational redundancy. Systems Administrator Aruba Networks - Sunnyvale, CA 2011 to 2015 Data Center Migration - October 2014  Mapped and identified business owners and dependencies with virtual machine inventory. Migrated virtual development engineering infrastructure into new data center. Deployed new virtual infrastructure for production environment and migrated current virtual machines to the new infrastructure. Worked with business owners in order to schedule the migrations and verification tests. Education Bachelor of Science in Management Information Systems San Jose State University May 2015 Additional Information • Effectiveness with time management and organizational skills in project management teams  • Designing scripts for use in daily tasks, automation, or solving issues  • Developing exceptional relationships with co-workers, management, and end users  • Superior troubleshooting and technical support abilities with Linux, Openstack and Open Source projects and tools    COMPUTER SKILLS  Systems Openstack, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6.x-7, Cobbler, Windows Server 2003-2012R2, ESX 5.x, AWS, VMware Vsphere, Puppet  Scripting/Languages Ansible, Python, PowerCLI, Bash, Visual Basic .Net, PHP, Java, SQL, PowerShell  Hardware CIMC and UCSM  Certs RHCSA (160-069-027)