Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - ACI Worldwide Peachtree Corners, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator ACI Worldwide - Norcross, GA October 2016 to Present > Develops Python scripts to automate data collection and management via APIs, customized data applications and network devices. My code has already reduced manual human intervention, increased efficiency across multiple teams, and increased network and application availability and stability.  > Developed Python scripts to integrate JMeter load testing application with open source monitoring solution, Zabbix. This script automates host setup and configures it according to the JMeter plan. Part two of the script automates running JMeter, parsing XMLs, processing data configurations, and sending data to Zabbix and to a webserver for presentation.  > Utilizes Ansible and created playbooks to provide efficient availability monitoring and inventory manageability.  > Programs Zabbix monitoring on Windows, Linux, and Solaris servers through domestic and international data center locations.  > Earned promotion for superior performance and selected for high priority initiatives after demonstrating the ability to learn quickly and produce high-quality code and results.  > Analyzes trending data to design reports and dashboards which provides proactive monitoring for areas supporting bill pay, retail payments, and banking applications. My contributions ultimately decreased customer intervention by 34%.  > Designed and developed a data reporting and consolidating tool for SaaS clients and for in-house use.  > Enforces security measures for Risk and PCI (Payment Card Industry) compliance by managing active directories and utilizing RSA Archer.  > Entrusted to be a HSM root key holder for performing root key ceremonies for SaaS clients. Associate Systems Engineer ACI Worldwide January 2016 to October 2016 > Implemented, deployed, and supported a new third party system, SmartStream, for ACI's corporate reconciliation team. Successful implementation resulted in automating many reconciliation tasks and reporting.  > Managed day-to-day IT operations for Official Payments' client-facing applications and developed automated batch processes to promote efficiency for legacy bill pay systems.  > Displayed dependability and accountability when handling financial IRS sensitive information.  > Developed strong change management skills by managing deployments and configurations according to corporate standards and requirements. Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Management Information Systems The University of Georgia, Terry College of Business - Athens, GA August 2012 to May 2016 Skills Linux, Python, CSS, Windows, Java, MySQL, Perl, API, HTML, Regular Expressions Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/haemilim Additional Information Software Skills  Zabbix, Jaspersoft Studio, Grafana, Elasticsearch (ELK), openLDAP, JMeter