SCCM Technician SCCM Technician SCCM Technician - Rochester Institute of Technology ? ITS Client Services Rehoboth, MA Work Experience SCCM Technician Rochester Institute of Technology ? ITS Client Services - Rochester, NY September 2013 to Present • Utilize SCCM to package, test, and silently deploy applications requested by RIT faculty, staff, and students.  • Maintain and update currently deployed applications.  • Utilize the FootPrints Ticketing System to coordinate with application requestors. Systems Administrator Southwest Dermatology - Orland Park, IL May 2013 to August 2013 • Sole Systems Administrator responsible for overseeing Southwest Dermatology's four medical offices.  • Maintained databases and applications including NexTech and Medisoft EMRs.  • Resolved hardware and software issues reported across four medical offices.  • Developed the company website. Assistant Systems Administrator Rochester Institute of Technology ? ITS College of Liberal Arts - Rochester, NY November 2012 to May 2013 • Responsible for deploying, maintaining, updating, and troubleshooting hardware and software for faculty and staff. Systems were comprised of PCs and Macs. Systems Administrator Rochester Institute of Technology ? ITS Lab Services - Rochester, NY May 2012 to November 2012 • Systems Administrator for three computer labs on RIT's campus. Labs were comprised of 33 Macs, 42 PCs, and three workgroup printers.  • Responsible for deploying new software, keeping all software and antivirus protection up-to-date, as well as troubleshooting Macs, PCs, printers, and print servers.  • Utilized a multitude of enterprise software and systems including Active Directory, Group Policy, print servers, Altiris, SCCM, Apple Remote Desktop, Deploy Studio, and the FootPrints Ticketing System. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Rochester Institute of Technology - Rochester, NY 2011 to 2014 Skills Java, Perl, Basic Knowledge of C#, MySQL, ActionScript, CSS, HTML, SCCM, Active Directory, Group Policy, VMware, Altiris, Deploy Studio, SQL Server, Advantage Database Server