Vmware Administrator Vmware <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Waynesboro, PA I have been involved in IT administration and support for 10 years and have held positions from desktop support to enterprise server administrator. I have considerable enterprise systems support knowledge and have demonstrated the ability to achieve high system availability and excellent customer service. Over the last several years I have also gained significant experience using the Citrix and VMware suite of products. Work Experience Vmware Administrator Veteran Affairs Acquisition Academy November 2012 to Present November 2012 to present    ? Implementation and administration of Citrix XenDesktop 7.15 VDI to deploy 300+ virtual desktops utilizing both MCS and PVS.  ? Administration of backend Citrix environment consisting of multiple Delivery controllers, Storefronts, and Director servers  ? Daily administration and maintenance of VMware ESXi 4.1 and 6.0 datacenters comprised of multiple HP c7000 blade cabinets and P4800 / 4630 SANs, including HA, DRS, vMotion, Update Manager, etc. vSphere infrastructures consists of 22 hosts and 80+ TB of storage.  ? Administration and maintenance of a VMware View 4.6 virtual desktop environment for classroom usage. Duties include creating and maintaining linked clone desktop pools; developing ThinApp packages; and updating base images.  ? Basic use of Powershell and VMware PowerCLI for hypervisor administration.  ? Daily administration of Active Directory environment including user account admin, group policies, file sharing, print services, etc.  ? Daily administration of 300+ HP thin clients  ? Provide Tier 2 and 3 desktop support for VA staff and classroom students.  ? Mentoring of the Tier 1 desktop staff Systems Administrator First Energy Corp January 2012 to November 2012 Daily administration of Active Directory environment including user account admin, group policies, file sharing, print services, etc.  ? Providing Level 2 desktop field support directly onsite for client problem resolution  ? Coordinated with supervisor and other agents to insure timely deployment of new machines  ? Working with Symantec Management consoles to deploy new software Systems Administrator Global Data Consultants November 2009 to December 2011 October 2010 to December 2011  ? Worked with DPM 2010 to perform system/data backups and restores  ? Daily administration of Active Directory environment including user account admin, group policies, file sharing, print services, etc.  ? Managed and maintained Exchange Management Console.  ? Built the internal Support Center VM infrastructure using VMWare software: Researched and purchased hardware. Built all golden images and installed custom software.  ? Worked with various VMWare software: View 4.6, vSphere 4.0, VMware ESX 4.1  ? Updated existing images as well as created new deployment images using the Symantec Ghost software  ? Inventory management  ? Patch management using Kaseya Systems Management software Education ComputerTraining.Com in Systems Administration ComputerTraining.Com Skills Vmware (9 years), Citrix (3 years), System Administration (9 years) Certifications/Licenses VCP 6 June 2017 to Present Citrix CCA-V May 2019 to June 2022