Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Two Rivers, WI • 10 years on the job experience as an enterprise level systems administrator.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills.  • Ability to perform well in high stress environments.  • Leadership experience in critical situations. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator OilRite Corporation - Manitowoc, WI 2016 to 2019 • Worked as only IT support on site, assisting users with basic troubleshooting, advanced process management, and all things IT.  • Managed company databases, servers, switches, UPS, NAS, and all software and hardware requirements.  • Updated company IT infrastructure with stand-alone rack structure, power redundancy, backup redundancy  • Conducted company wide ERP system upgrade, from Epicor 8 to Epicor 10.   • Worked closely with management to address company IT needs and direction. Systems Administrator Manitowoc Crane - Manitowoc, WI 2014 to 2016 Daily management of backup and recovery infrastructure, off-site tape handling, file and system recovery.  • Participated in multiple Disaster Recovery exercise scenarios. Played an integral role in the initiation of DR Activities as well as the management and maintenance of DR infrastructure.  • Created batch and PowerShell scripts to facilitate task automation.  • Contacted 3rd Party IT Equipment vendors to facilitate system management and replacement hardware procurement.  • Assisted Systems Admin team with new project requests, file system management, hardware and software break/fix actions.  • Provided Infrastructure support to Help Desk and Development teams as needed.  • Environment: Windows Server 2003/2008/2012 R2, ESX, VMWare, VRanger, CommVault, Windows XP/Win 7/Win 10. Systems Administrator Thomas Industries - Sheboygan, WI 2013 to 2013 • Administrated small in house network, performing the jobs of a Help Desk Technician, Network Administrator, and Systems Administrator all at once.  • Personally assisted company employees with computer issues, software and hardware, as well as setting up new workstations as needed.  • Performed daily backups of all critical servers in order to provide protection in the event of data loss.  • Environment: Windows Server 2003/2008 R2, ESX, Windows 2000 Pro/XP/Win, Lotus Notes, VMWare Support Engineer Coraid Inc - Athens, GA 2012 to 2012 • Assisted customer IT departments with the installation, configuration and management of Coraid storage appliances.  • Provided 24/7 support to customers as needed, supporting multiple Operating Systems and network topologies.  • Recreated customer's issues with company equipment to perform root cause analysis. Recreation of customer issues occasionally warranted the creation of virtual replicas of the customer's network via VMware software.  • Utilized Remote Desktop software to assist customers and resolve their storage issues as they watched.  • Environment: Windows Server 2003/2008, Linux, Coraid, ESX, VMWare Systems Administrator/SAN Manager USMC - Camp Lejeune, NC 2010 to 2012 • Administrated a classified, enterprise level network with over 25K users in accordance with ITIL standards.  • Resolved issues ranging from user account configuration and desktop/onsite support, to installing and maintaining enterprise network hardware and software.  • Managed the configuration and administration of a 2 petabyte SAN with 100% data integrity.  • Planned and executed multiple maintenance and modification scheduled outages resulting in improved network performance.  • Scheduled and monitored operating system and storage back-up jobs providing 100% data retention.  • Configured and managed 100TB and 170TB network file shares; ensuring customer data accessibility on multiple networks.  • Assisted with the migration of user data from legacy file shares to newly acquired and configured network storage equipment.  • Spent 2 months assisting helpdesk personnel with proper troubleshooting and escalation procedures.  • Assisted in user workstation imaging and network image deployment.  • Environment: Windows Server 2003/2008, Exchange 2003/2010, ESX, NetApp, Coraid, Windows 2000 Pro/XP/Win, VMWare Systems Administrator USMC, 8th Communication Battalion, Al Asad - Camp Lejeune, NC 2008 to 2010 • Administrated a classified enterprise level network overseas with over 18K users.  • Utilizing NetApp Filers, implemented a 6TB SQL database to streamline event log collection allowing a 6 month, 100% accurate, record of event logs with 99.999% uptime.  • Configured and installed multiple NetApp Filers and filer clusters to fulfill storage requirements.  • Maintained classified ESX hosts providing over 25 virtual servers essential to daily operations.  • Supervised and assisted with the installation or relocation of over 100 servers/storage devices with 0 mishaps.  • Served as Shift Manager, supervising a team of 6 Marines, ensuring work was completed in an expedient and satisfactory manner.  • Environment: Windows Server 2003, Exchange 2003, ESX, NetApp, Cisco, VMWare Education Certification in Education Marine Corps Communication Electronics School Skills Vmware, Linux, Active Directory, System Administrator, System Admin, Epicor (2 years) Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ Present CompTIA Network+ Present CompTIA Security+ Present Assessments Project Management Skills: Budgeting — Highly Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to manage project budgets by appropriately allocating and monitoring financial resources. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ubdgwds22nlmfyxj Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Highly Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/djvwoz0pgnlwurdd Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.