Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - BOOZ ALLEN HAMILTON A highly motivated and goal-oriented individual with over 6 years of experience in performing a variety of information security tasks, efficient in meeting deadlines, and solving technical problems. Committed to maximizing performance and providing the highest levels of network operating satisfaction. Specialist with innovative ideas, thrives to meet goals, and exceed expectations. Well-versed in implementing changes and compliance parameters to ensure optimum efficiency and productivity. Work Experience Systems Administrator BOOZ ALLEN HAMILTON May 2018 to Present • Performs technical engineering, testing, systems engineering and deployment of enterprise applications for an enterprise of ~30,000 users across ~20 geographically separated sites.  • Engineers application deployment packages, automates the deployment of applications and security patches, and monitors and reports deployment statuses.  • Creates detailed technical documentation of all engineering projects in alignment with strict documentation SOPs.  • Performs vulnerability assessment scans using Tenable Nessus to ensure applications and systems meet all Secure Technical Implementation Guidelines (STIGs).  • Conducts Host Based Security System (HBSS) testing, generating policies per application prior to pilot testing.  • Utilizes System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM) to engineer application packages as well as the distribution and deployment of applications, monitor installation statuses, and create system reports on Enterprise wide collections. Information Systems Technician UNITED STATES NAVY May 2012 to May 2018 • Maximized workflow by efficiently overseeing daily projects, ensuring resolution of all assigned task.  • Established goals and objectives and setting priorities for accomplishing overall organizational functions.  • Meet with department heads, managers, and supervisors to solicit cooperation and resolve problems.  • Control operational budget and purchased necessary equipment.  • Provided users with technical support for computer problems.  • Performed network administration functions, set up network user accounts/ permissions, reset passwords, and administered group policies Active Directory.  • Managed 30GB of data on company share drive  • Maintained and initiated classified PKI token program.  • Delivered printing solutions and peripherals, e.g., scanners/ copiers, digital senders, and fax machines. Education High School Diploma PINEFOREST HIGH SCHOOL June 2011 Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E-5 Additional Information KEY SKILLS    • TS/SCI Clearance  • CompTIA Security+  • Team player  • Organized, time manageable, and adaptable  • Attention to detail oriented  • Critical Thinking