Service Desk Administrator Lead Service Desk <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Lead Nodal Network Systems Operator and Maintainer - United States Army Reserves Lakewood, CO I am a network Administrator and Military Veteran with a secret security clearance and three years of proven experience in the United States Army Reserves. I accomplished measurable results while leading teams of two in a dynamic, fast - paced environment. Possess a comprehensive background in network administration and technical service desk derived from conducting domestic and global operations in Afghanistan and Kuwait. Managed risk upon multiple lines to protect assets, property, and equipment valued over 10 million while meeting the expectations of senior leadership. Possess extensive knowledge in networking, Microsoft Office, and customer service, while completing two years of college toward a business degree. I am a recipient of an Army Commendation Medal for outstanding performance and professionalism. Work Experience Service Desk Administrator Lead United States Army December 2018 to Present United States Army Reserves   Service Desk Administrator Lead    I provide technical services to a base of 2,000 personnel, some services include software installation, email troubleshooting, Internet access, share folder access, and account troubleshooting.  I manage a small team as well as supervise 90 Information Management Officers.    • I secure and manage equipment valuing over 10 million dollars.  • I manage and operate the security devices for three different site networks.  • I manage and operate the security devices for three different site networks. Nodal Network Systems Operator and Maintainer United States Army Reserves 2016 to Present I trained proficiently in military values and individual tasks varying from leadership and team building to network operations and maintaining.  • Lead team in conducting 100% accountability of all assigned equipment in excess of $150K as well as annotating equipment that needed maintenance or replacement.  • I provide network and voice communications to multiple units by collaborating with my team and the unit's communications officer.  • I use my skills in networking to conduct field exercises in order to validate my equipment. Optician Walmart - Thornton, CO 2016 to 2018 Provide customer service to optical patients, the safeguarding of patient health information, and the management of optical inventory.    • Accurately verify the measurements of lenses received from the lab.  • I maintain accountability of over a thousand frames, 75 pairs of spectacle and contact orders at any given time.  • Assist patients in choosing the best choice for eye wear to fit their lifestyle. Education High school diploma Kiowa High School 2015 Skills Sharepoint, Microsoft windows, Windows 10, Windows 7, Windows 8, Microsoft office Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: SPC Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Software: Microsoft Office (2003, 2007, 2010), SharePoint  Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows (XP, Vista), Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 10