Network Administrator Network <span class="hl">Administrator</span> A team builder striving to always be improving. San Antonio, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Coldwell Banker - San Antonio, TX March 2019 to Present I Maintain and optimize a VxRail stack running servers for nine offices. Maintained and upgraded the DellEMC backup system. Updated and manage PAN firewall with HA through policies kept updated to me directly via email. I have created various scripts in PS, EMS, as well as Python that automated processes of less importance or menial, repetitive tasks. Technical Support Representative/Customer Service Representative OneTouch Direct - San Antonio, TX February 2018 to March 2019 Utilizing various proprietary software I remotely resolved customer issues with both iOS and Android devices. As a supervisor I assisted other agents in understanding how to troubleshoot more difficult issues. Signal Support Systems Specialist U.S. Army - San Antonio, TX May 2015 to September 2018 Built and maintained LANs, implemented various layer 2-4 protocols for optimization, provided general technical support in the unit, and helped to train newly assigned soldiers.    Learned a sense of responsibility, attention to detail, and developed leadership skills. Operations Manager Dollar Tree - San Antonio, TX June 2017 to January 2018 Maintained store appearance and made sure store associates understood and completed their tasks.     Completed paperwork associated with vendor orders, inventory, and bank deposits for the store.    Working as assistant manager helped to grow my team building and problem solving skills. Education Signal Support Certificate in Network Systems Administration U.S. Army Signal School - Fort Gordon, GA July 2015 to January 2016 Some College (<60 hours) in Computer Science University of Texas at San Antonio - San Antonio, TX August 2013 to May 2014 High school or equivalent Tom C. Clark - San Antonio, TX August 2009 to May 2013 Skills Network Administration (3 years), Training (2 years), Military (3 years), Customer Service (6 years), Help Desk (3 years), DHCP (3 years), LAN optimization and maintenance (3 years), System Administration (3 years), FTP (3 years), Team Building (4 years), Technical Support (4 years), TCP/IP (3 years), VMware (6 years), Linux (1 year), Active Directory (1 year), Windows (8 years), Management (2 years), Networking (3 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Network Security (3 years), MAC, Windows 7 Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: E-1 Certifications/Licenses CCENT April 2019 to April 2022 CCENT qualified individuals have the knowledge and skill to install, manage, maintain and troubleshoot a small enterprise branch network, including network security. The CCENT curriculum covers networking fundamentals, WAN technologies, basic security, routing and switching fundamentals, and configuring simple networks. Assessments Technical Support Skills — Expert January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/hkkqwejpjxlxrbtb Intermediate Spreadsheet Proficiency with Microsoft Excel — Familiar January 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of intermediate Microsoft Excel techniques including effectively writing and applying conditional formulas. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/rqa8-uqo8athn-19 Problem Solving — Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nza2frsedn43mkpz Critical Thinking Skills — Highly Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to use logical approaches when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dsnzfcsucuzaerju Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information I recently completed my contract with the Army, and I am now pursuing a career in information technology utilizing the experience and skills I developed in the military. I am also currently working toward obtaining the CCNA, RHCSA and MCP certifications as a compliment to my military experience and to further my career in network administration and security.    In the next five years I plan on continuing to expand my professional network as I complete school, and gain more experience in network and cloud administration and engineering. I will continue to work towards my goal of becoming a network/cloud architect, and strive to exceed my own and others' expectations of myself.