CSR CSR Administrator – Network – System – Database Bay City, MI Network/ Systems Administrator with several years of experience in working with customers in multiple geographic locations supporting network and system administration and database administration. As I continue my education I am exploring a more diverse portfolio of networks and applications especially with regards to computer science initiatives and new technologies to expand my tools and capabilities. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience CSR Shively Brothers Inc - Bay City, MI April 2018 to Present Provide tooling needs to a General Motors plant located in Michigan. Coordinate purchasing over multiple locations to provide greater cost savings to the customer. Ensure that optimal tooling quantities are available to prevent any downtime across multiple programs within the plant. Work with vendors to confirm lead times, cost and ship dates. Generate reports to project usage to base ordering from. Create and maintain programs to provide automation for user.    Daily tasks include but are not limited to:  - Create and track all sales orders.  - Create and track all purchase orders.  - Receive invoices from subcontractors.  - Ensure accurate order entry and follow up.  - Submit weekly and end of month billing to customer.  - Generating and reviewing weekly reports.  - Work with all departments and resolves problems and issues as necessary.  - Confer with vendors to obtain product or service information such as price, availability and delivery schedule.  - Warehouse tasks.  - Provide customer service to internal and external customer/s.  - Report and document non-conformances, CARs and continuous improvements.    The following technologies were used in this performance period:    Platforms: Windows 8; Windows 10  Products: MS Office Suite; SL; I3; MetaViewer  Software Languages: Visual Basic for Applications (VBA)  Hardware: Desktop; Laptop; Fax/scan/copy; Scanner Systems Administrator J.R. Dahn Construction, LLC - Essexville, MI April 2017 to April 2018 Support a small construction company located in mid-Michigan by building, updating and maintaining systems, ensuring security, and user access. Built and customized a dashboard providing graphs and automated reports for expenses, revenue and other critical data. Created a payroll system that generates paystubs with year to date income and tax deductions. Set up a file sharing system to access invoices and files among all company devices.    In addition, perform day to day activities to include maintaining and administering servers, desktop and laptop computers, printers, routers, firewalls, smartphones, software deployment, security updates and patches. Troubleshoot problems reported by users, make recommendations for future upgrades, maintain network and system security, and analyze and isolate issues to prevent system interruption.    Daily tasks include but are not limited to:  -Develop new and improve existing systems and workflow  -Provide end user network and remote access support  -Provide network installation, support, and firewall configuration  -Analyze data, report results  -Create, automate, and distribute reports  -Configure, troubleshoot, update, and repair equipment    The following technologies were used in this performance period:    Platforms: Windows 8; Windows 10; iOS  Products: MS Office Suite  Software Languages: Visual Basic for Applications (VBA)  Hardware: Desktop; Laptop; Fax/scan/copy; iPhone; iPad Systems Developer Bell Nursery USA, LLC - Elkridge, MD August 2015 to March 2017 Provided support to 200 stores and production facilities spread across the east coast keeping an optimal system online through the monitoring and tuning of the respective databases, their security, controls, and user access. Maintained and generated reports and worked with the upper management and store supervisors to assure all data and system fixes were in place and up-to-date without disruption to the user base and to ensure minimal downtime.    In addition, performed day to day activities to include data requests, resolving technical issues and the updating of records. Worked on system and user initiated issues through the troubleshooting of job failures and performance issues to maintain the integrity and quality of the data. Performed quality checks to confirm mirrored data sets were intact and accurate.    Created and maintained system documentation to include reports, procedures and mobile tasks for system features and functions.    Daily tasks include but are not limited to:  -Develop new and improve existing systems and workflow  -Provide end user network and remote access support  -Analyze data, report results  -Create AD network logon policies  -Create SQL scripts to automate database reporting and auditing  -Iterative development of replenishment parameters based on sales history and planned  offerings  -Training and support activity in formal classroom settings, LogMeIn Rescue screen sharing  sessions, and over the phone to resolve user issues  -Create, automate, and distribute reports  -Configure, troubleshoot, and repair equipment  The following technologies were used in this performance period:    Platforms: Windows 8; Windows 10; iOS  Products: MSSQL; Crystal Reports; Visual CUT; Webalo; MS Office Suite  Software Languages: SQL scripting, Visual Basic for Applications (VBA)  Hardware: Server (Mac mini); iPhone; iPod; iPad; Linea Pro 5 Scanner; MiFi Jetpack Associate Database/ Systems Administrator BLC Consulting, LLC - Gainesville, VA May 2012 to August 2015 Supported a user base of 800+ customers across multiple geographical locations. Act as customer advocate between user community and vendor representatives to assure an optimal work environment as well as tuning performance of the systems network and the troubleshooting and resolution of issues by way of desk side support or virtual access. Work with the vendors routinely to identify, prepare and install patch loads to accomplish and maintain stable network environment.    In addition, work with the team in the setting up of new systems to include hardware routers and switches and the installation and configuration of software to include Windows Firewall, Sonic Wall, Norton Suite, MySQL, MSSQL, Oracle 11G as well as Anti-Spyware products with the development of SQL scripts to support automation of specific tasks for system function and monitoring.    Created and maintained system documentation to include policies and procedures for system features and functions.    Daily tasks include but are not limited to:  -Provide network installation, support, and firewall configuration  -Provide end user network and remote access support  -Create and maintain daily database backups and archiving  -Create AD network logon policies  -Create and maintain a dashboard for database performance alerting  -Base Installs and patches for Oracle 11G, MySQL and MSSQL database systems  -Create SQL scripts to automate database reporting and auditing  -Provide database tuning to improve performance    The following technologies were used in this performance period:    Platforms: Windows 7; Windows 8  Products: Sonic Wall (TZ, MX); Anti-SpyWare; AVG; Norton Product Suite; Oracle 11G; MySQL; MSSQL; Windows Firewall; MS Office Suite  Software Languages: SQL scripting  Hardware: Routers (Linksys, CISCO); Servers (Dell PowerEdge Product Line); Switches (Extreme Networks) Education Bachelor's in Computer Science University of Maryland University College - Largo, MD 2015 to Present Associate in Information Technology Community College of Baltimore County - Essex, MD 2010 to 2013 Awards Alpha Sigma Lambda 2015-06 Honor Society Phi Theta Kappa 2012-06 Honor Society Certifications/Licenses Kepner Tregoe – Problem Solving & Decision Making 2015 to Present Driver's License Additional Information TECHNICAL BACKGROUND SUMMARY     -      Microsoft Office 2003, 2007, 2010, 2013 and 2016  o  Microsoft Word  o  Microsoft Excel  o  Microsoft Access  o  Microsoft PowerPoint  o  Microsoft Office Visio  -      Editing Software  o  Adobe Premiere Elements Editor  o  Photoshop Elements Editor  o  Photoshop Elements Organizer  o  Audacity  -      Server Applications / Databases  o  MSSQL […] MySQL, Oracle 11g, IIS 3.0-5X, Great Plains  o  Oracle 10G J2E Application Server  o  Oracle 11g R2 Database  o  SQL Server 2005, 2008 and 2008 R2  o  Sharepoint, GroupWise  o  Atlassian: Jira, Confuence, Fisheye, Bamboo  o  VMWare (Fusion, ESXi 4/5)  -      Hardware  o  Dell – PowerEdge product line  o  Extreme Networks – Summit Series  o  SonicWall – TZ and MX series  o  Linksys – All  o  Apple – All  -      Operating Systems  o  RHEL 4-7  o  CentOS (All)  o  BSD MacOS (All)  o  IOS (All)  o  Windows XP, Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 10  -      Networking  o  TCP/IP, Ethernet, Wireless […] n Cisco, Apple Airport, Appletalk Lucent), Netatalk, Samba  -      Security  o  AntiVirus (Kaspersky, Norton, AVG), IPtables/IPchains, JASS. Snort, Snare, Tripwire, Fail2ban,  o  Watchdog, Security Blanket, SCAP, Retina  -      Languages  o  SQL  o  HTML with CSS  o  Java  o  VBA