Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Hanover Park, IL Work Experience Systems Administrator SCHAWK - Chicago, IL 2014 to 2014 Hired as full-time Level II Systems Administrator. Provide Windows/Linux/MAC systems support, Hardware installation, Datacenter management across Americas, Europe, and Asia locations. Lead Citrix engineer for XenApp. VmWare Administration. Also, manage daily tickets within the queue. Monitor and perform CommVault backups/restores.  Key Contributions:  ? Automated server builds for both physical and virtual machines  ? Automated reporting for health/capacity of VmWare environment  ? Upgraded out of support Citrix Presentation servers to latest version of XenApp  ? Configued and set up Linux Xymon server for monitoring of all systems. Set up a rules specific to certain applications.  ? Migrated Exchange Forefront protection to Microsoft Exchange Online Protection Systems Administrator UNITED STATIONERS - Deerfield, IL 2003 to 2013 Hired as a full-time systems administrator. Provide Windows system administrator, Hardware installation, Dataceneter management, Citrix administration (XenApp/XenDesktop), VMware administration. Also manage FTP servers, IIS, AD/DNS, support, Windows Scripting. Design and implement highly available (HA) and disaster recovery (DR) solutions for clients and employer.  Key Contributions:  ? Evaluated and reconfigured company's Windows servers in dual remote datacenters to allow for 99% uptime. Expertise in HP Hardware and Blade Chassis  ? Brought company within compliance of security and patching standards  ? Researched, recommended, implemented, and automated enhancements that improved system reliability and performance.  ? Managed server deployments and configuration providing 24/7 support for over 700 servers both physical and virtual as well as led a consolidation project to reduce resource and power consumption Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering DEVRY UNIVERSITY - Addison, IL 2005