Senior Systems Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Systems Administrator San Mateo, CA Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator USPS - San Mateo, CA 2015 to 2019 Conducted server upgrades to HP DL580 Gen9 on SUSE Linux 12.3 for Oracle and open-HA clusters and virtual machines. Performed as project lead for web / app and database deployment from host design to server build-up. Provided support for Linux Enterprise hotline incident escalations and general Linux questions. Installed critical patch updates to all Linux servers and participated in Linux bi-monthly on-call rotation.  • Performed disaster recovery monthly testing, bringing up over 200 clustered servers and virtual machines within 1 day.  ? Designed menu-based tool for troubleshooting, monitoring and reporting within DR environment using remote HP Lights-Out access and shell scripts to assess cluster and system state, and achieving consistent success rate on bringing Linux production servers to DR environment.  ? Promoted to systems administrator 4 for reducing time to bring-up DR servers for team of 4 system administrators by automating all manual process needed to bring-up servers in DR as a menu-based tool from 4 days to 3 hours.  • Automated system backup for Linux upgrades and security patching using shell scripts and Ansible ad-hoc, eliminating human error on data recovery and therefore increasing productivity.  • Led Splunk deployment of over 120 virtual machines automating tuning software, system configuration, and virtual disk deployment using VMWare Powercli, enabling completion of Splunk software installs in 2 days rather than 2 - 3 weeks.  • Created self-heal application and storage monitoring for Open-HA cluster, reducing on-call alerts, manual hours, and business impact, and providing answers regarding cluster upgrades. Senior Systems Administrator USPS - San Mateo, CA 2011 to 2015 Migrated existing to newer OS boot disk in SAN storage (EMC) with no downtime using LVM mirroring. Served as project lead for deploying over 300 database clusters and web servers across 2 data centers. Installed critical patch updates to all Linux servers and participated in Linux bi-monthly on-call rotation. Supported Electronic Data Interchange infrastructure upgrades on newer bare-metal and virtual machines. Addressed and resolved issues coming from on-call alerts at any-time.  • Worked with stakeholders (postal managers and developers), ensuring on-time completion of data center migration.  • Provided solution to snap or copy terabytes of data from production to non-production, enabling developers to make changes to individual applications without impacting live production data.  • Deployed highly visible application used for parcel delivery not just on-time but early by streamlining planning and deployment of servers and application installs of Oracle Cluster-ware, Adobe ColdFusion, Apache Tomcat and IBM WebSphere with shell scripts.  • Resurrected failed Oracle highly visible production database server using cluster, restoring applications back to full high-availability potential.  • Resolved incidents and change requests assigned to San Mateo Linux group, beating SLA deadline. Education Bachelor of Science in (BS), Business Computing & Information Systems San Francisco State University - San Francisco, CA Skills Linux, Clustering, Dns, Dhcp, Nfs Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/joseph-canoy-9bb70a5 Additional Information Core Competencies:  Linux Clustering & Troubleshooting System Installation Configuration & Upgrade  Host Design Planning PXE Server with KickStart Shell & Ansible Scripting  Training & Mentoring NFS, DHCP & DNS Process Automation