Unix/Linux Systems Administrator Unix/Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Unix/Linux Systems Administrator - Goldmansachs ? Over 6 years of experience in administration of Linux/Solaris Operating Systems in Standalone, Clustered environments.  ? Experience in installation, configuration, and maintenance of Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5, 6, and 7 and Oracle Solaris 8, 9, and 10,11.  ? Experience in Installing Firmware Upgrades, troubleshooting, kernel patches, systems configuration, and performance tuning on UNIX/Linux systems.  ? Worked on setting up LPARs and providing production support for AIX issues.  ? Responsible for setting up EC2 instances on AWS  ? Strong knowledge on Linux, Automation Tools like Puppet and Ansible.  ? Installed Solaris using Jumpstart and Linux using Kickstart.  ? Experienced working with SLDC environments.  ? Experience in configuration of NIS, NIS+, DNS, DHCP, NFS, LDAP, SFTP  ? Experience on Webservers such as Tomcat 3.x, 4.x, 5.x & Apache Server 1.x, 2.x and integrating them with Weblogic 10.x servers.  ? Experience in development and configuration experience with software provisioning tools like Puppet and Ansible.  ? Experience in administering Linux running on VMware ESX 3.5, vSphere 4.0  ? Worked on Solaris Zones and LDOMs running on Solaris 10/11.  ? Experience with Vertias Volume Manager, VERITAS Cluster Server 3.5, VERITAS Netbackup 6.0, VERITAS File System.  ? Knowledge on Cluster environments like VCS, Oracle RAC and Redhat Cluster.  ? Experienced in clustering load balancing techniques to ensure HA.  ? Experience on OpenStack infrastructure to enable the continue innovation.  ? Installation and configuration of Weblogic, Jboss, and Web Sphere 5.1/6.0 Application Server on Solaris and Linux boxes.  ? Prepared documentation for standard operating procedures of various administration tasks.  ? Experience on Zabbix of monitor the servers and applications.  ? Strong understanding of infrastructure automation tooling using Ansible.  ? Expertise in scripting for automation and monitoring using Bash and Perl scripts.  ? Worked with Database and Middleware administrators to tune kernel parameters. Work Experience Unix/Linux Systems Administrator Goldmansachs - Salt Lake, UT August 2017 to Present Responsible for providing 24x7 production support for Linux/Solaris production systems using BMC remedy tool.  ? Involved in setting up LPARs and provided production support for AIX hosts.  ? Automated Kickstart images installation, build, patching and configuration of 500+ Enterprise Linux servers on Dell PowerEdge and Sun hardware.  ? Responsible for design, build, deployment, patching and upgrade of Linux/Solaris servers. Design, Build and configuration of RHEL, SuSE.  ? Responsible for applying OS patches for AIX, Solaris and Linux.  ? Performed OS upgrades, migrations on Redhat, SuSE and Solaris  ? Extensively worked on Software Development Life Cycle environments.  ? Experience with change control management using BMC Remedy tool in handling Work Orders on production systems in a large datacenter environment.  ? Migrated Linux virtual machines from one vCenter to another using vConverter.  ? Primary member of the team to successfully implement SPARC migration from Sun hardware to LDOMs running on Solaris 10 and Solaris 11.  ? Responsible for patching large number of Linux/Solaris servers using Satellite.  ? Responsible for setting three-node VCS on Linux nodes.  ? Experienced working with Veritas Volume Manager (VxVM) and Logical Volume Manager (LVM) on Solaris and Linux operating systems.  ? Extensively worked on file systems like EXT2, EXT3, UFS, VxFS, VxDMP, VCFS, OCFS, OCFS2, ASM, and other journaling filesystems.  ? Provided web server/ application like Apache, Tomcat, JBoss, WebLogic, Websphere support on UNIX environment.  ? Experience with automating installations, post configurations, developing tools and day-to-day activities using shell scripts like bash and perl.  ? Automated Jumpstart installation, build, configuration and support of 100+ Solaris 9/10 servers on Sun Sparc hardware.  ? Installed and configured Solaris 10 zones. Performed Solaris Live Upgrade.  ? Installed and configured Red Hat Network Satellite for managing, provisioning and monitoring RHEL 5 servers.  ? Configured LVM, NIS, NFS, Web Server, Samba server, DHCP server, NAT, Primary Secondary and cache-only DNS server. Administered mail servers.  ? Responsible for setting up 3-node Oracle 10g RAC cluster on RHEL and Solaris.  ? Experiencing with configuring Netbackup on Linux and Solaris boxes.  ? Responsible for setting up Development, Stage and Production Oracle10g RHEL  ? Experience with Kernel upgrades, OCFS, OCFS2 and ASM upgrades from Oracle OTN in regular intervals for Development, Stage and Production Oracle 10g/Linux grid environment.  ? Experience with Kernel upgrades from RHN, OCFS, OCFS2 and ASM upgrades from Oracle OTN in regular intervals for Development, Stage and Production Oracle 10g/Linux grid environment.  ? Responsible for deploying Oracle database environments on large number of oracle enterprise Linux systems. Unix/Linux Systems Administrator VISA - Austin, TX October 2015 to April 2017 Implemented Puppet modules to automate configuration of Upgrading the linux kernel and Managing persistent SSH tunnels.  ? Installation and up-gradation of the operating system RHEL/Solaris OS.  ? Developed Puppet modules to automate deployment, configuration, and lifecycle management of key clusters.  ? Experience working in NFS/NAS, Storage Area Networks (SAN), SSA disk storage environment. Extensively performed SAN Migration.  ? Creating, cloning Linux Virtual Machines, templates using VMware Virtual Client 3.5 and migrating servers between ESX hosts.  ? Administration of RHEL 5, 6, and 7 which includes installation, testing, tuning, upgrading and loading patches, troubleshooting both physical/virtual servers.  ? Developed Ansible playbooks to configure, deploy and maintain software components of the existing/new infrastructure.  ? Upgraded firmware on HP, DELL, and IBM blade servers running Linux.  ? Configuring multipath, adding SAN and creating physical volumes, volume groups, logical volumes.  ? Worked on Zabbix for to integrity of servers, mechanism of flexible notifications for any virtual event and reporting.  ? Worked on SALT configuration management server to update configuration on Linux servers.  ? Preparing servers for Oracle RAC installation which includes tuning the kernel, agent installation, adding NAS storage.  ? Installing RedHat Linux using kickstart and applying security polices for hardening the server based on the company policies.  ? Setup and Configuration of Puppet Configuration Management.  ? Build and modify CloudFormation stacks.  ? Administration, package installation, and configuration of OEL 5/6.  ? Worked in production & application support 24/7 in NAS, EMC SAN Storage.  ? Maintained Volumes and File systems for Oracle, MySQL.  ? Applying security patches to RHEL servers using Red Hat Satellite.  ? Managing systems routine backup, scheduling jobs using cron, enabling system logging, network logging of servers for maintenance, performance tuning.  ? Performed data-center operations including rack mounting and cabling.  ? Working on Volume management, Disk Management, software RAID solutions using VERITAS Volume manager and Logical Volume Manager.  ? Adding servers to the domain and monitoring them using Spectrum, Nagios, Check_MK, and BMC. UNIX Administrator Amgen - IN August 2013 to September 2015 Installation and administration of RHEL 4, 5, and 6, Solaris 8, 9 and 10, and SUSE 9 and 10.  ? Configured kickstart server and applied patches to the servers using Satellite.  ? Installation, configuration and administration of VMware, Solaris Zones and LDOMs.  ? Installed, configured, cloned VMs on VMware 5, Vsphere 4.0, configured ESX hosts, adding datastores to ESX hosts, creating vswitches, templates, migrating VMs across ESX hosts.  ? Running jobs and applying patches using HP Server Automation Tool (HPSA)  ? Installed several security packages like SNORT, tcpd, tcp-wrappers & ASSET.  ? Created, Implemented and maintained Disaster Recovery Site for File Server using DFS.  ? Performed capacity analysis, monitored and controlled disk space usage on systems.  ? Set up user and group login IDs, network configuration, password, resolving permission issues  ? Checking the Logs for errors in the NAS boxes, having knowledge on snap lock volumes, thin provisioning and Fabric switch zoning (Brocade).  ? Installation and maintaining the OpenStax hardware and software  ? Implemented and Enhanced the Existing Scripts which are developed in BASH, Perl, and SQL.  ? Build automatic provisioning system with kickstart and Puppet.  ? Responsible for maintenance of development tools and utilities and to maintain shell, Perl automation Scripts.  ? Set up and support network hardware using TCP/IP, SMB, VPN, IPSEC, VoIP  ? Manage a VoIP phone network, IPad and Microsoft Surface support/configuration  ? Worked with project manager and auditing teams to implement PCI compliance.  ? Installation and up-gradation of the operating system (RHEL,Ubuntu) and other applications.  ? Implementing Puppet for a start-up in preparation for compliance requirements due to an impending acquisition by a large, publicly traded company.  ? Developed Ansible playbooks to configure, deploy and maintain software components of the existing/new infrastructure.  ? Developed Puppet modules to automate deployment, configuration, and lifecycle management of key clusters.  ? Wrote puppet manifests for deploying, configuring, and managing collectd for metric collection and monitoring. Education M.S in Computer and Information Science in Computer and Information Science Southern Arkansas University - Magnolia, AR Skills Clariion, Emc symmetrix, Symmetrix, Nfs, Solaris, Veritas cluster server, Cluster server, Volume manager, Aix, Apache, E10k, Shell programming, Sun, Bgp, Dhcp, Network protocols, Ospf, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Netbackup Additional Information Technical Skills    Operating Systems RHEL 4/5/6/7, Solaris 9/10/11, SuSE 10/11/12, AIX 6  Hardware  HP Proliant, Blade servers, Sun Servers E4500, E6500, E6900, E10K, E15K, E25K, V280, V490, V880, V890, M3000, M4000, M5000, T5120, T5220, T5420, T4-1, T4-2, T5-1, Dell PowerEdge R710, R720, R810, R820, DMX3 and DMX4 Storage Arrays, EMC Symmetrix and CLARiiON, HP servers Gen 8/9/10    Software Vertias Volume Manager, VERITAS File System, VERITAS Cluster Server 3.5, VERITAS Netbackup 6.0  Cloud Technologies Puppet, Ansible  Web/ Application Server Tomcat, Apache DB2, Oracle R11&R12  Network Protocols DHCP, DNS, SNMP, SMTP, Ethernet, IOS, netstat, NFS, NIS, nslookup, RIP, OSPF, BGP, TCP/IP, and tcpdump.  Cluster Environment Sun Cluster Servers 2.2, 3.1, 3.2 and VERITAS Cluster Servers 4.1.  Programming Languages C, SQL, HTML, PHP, XML,Json,Ruby, Perl and Shell Programming, JSP, Python