Planning Administrator Planning <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Client Systems Technician North Las Vegas, NV Dynamic and motivated Information Systems and Network Administrator with a proven record  of delivering sustained results, managing projects from concept to completion, and analytical  thinking and creative problem solving. Skilled in applying customer service concepts,  demonstrating exceptional communication skills, and making critical decisions during challenges.  Adaptable leader with an ability to work independently, collaborate effectively with a team, and  develop opportunities that further establish organizational goals. Qualifications include: Work Experience Planning Administrator Vision Tech/CCSD - Las Vegas, NV January 2019 to Present • Create network installation guides through Excel, Visio and Acrobat for Integration team to install network devices for new schools and tech refreshes for over 330 schools in the district.   • Draft rack diagrams for network devices in Visio to show correct configuration of racks.   • List switches, routers, and AP's in Excel spreadsheets, along with IP's and Host names.   • Review network drawings and verify drop counts and device counts.  • Ensure bill of materials are accurate to avoid correct number of devices and material is ordered. Client Systems Technician United States Air Force May 2013 to October 2018 Provided Tier 1 and Tier 2 support to 3,700+ personnel for over $25 million worth of assets to include but not limited to: 5,200 desktops and laptops, servers, infrastructure,  and 125 mobile phones (iPhone and Black Berry).  • Developed training plans on software and hardware installations, system security incident  prevention, reporting, and recovery, and document troubleshooting processes.  • Created and managed user and computer accounts (Active Directory and DRA) on both unclassified (NIPRNET) and classified (SIPRNET) environments.  • Maintained computer systems, equipment, and software; analyzed computer network,  software, and hardware problems and developed effective and economical solutions.  • Maintained current and in-depth IT knowledge and skills pertaining to enterprise  infrastructure and client systems, to include networking, end user computing devices,  computer hardware and software systems and their interfaces, and industry standard  information security practices.  • Supported unit needs during exercises, daily training, deployments and real-world  contingencies.  • Individually completed an estimated 5,000 minimum combined customer assistance  calls and work orders.  • Processed 860+ PKI tokens for privileged users as Registration Authority. Education Air Force Client Systems Technical School Skills Information Security, Microsoft Office (5 years), Attention to detail (10+ years) Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: Senior Airman Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified May 2013 to January 2022 Security+ January 2016 to January 2022 ITIL Foundation June 2019 to Present