Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer - USMC Milwaukee, WI Information technology professional with a government secret clearance and over 7 years of experience in planning, developing, and executing technology solutions to address business needs. Extensive technical background in server administration, desktop support, project management, virtualization, and disaster recovery protocols. Work Experience Systems Engineer USMC - Chicago, IL July 2018 to Present • Designed network and system infrastructures for two production networks providing operational support for hundreds of users through the utilization of over $1,000,000 of information systems.  • Exceeded customer demands by designing, implementing, and managing telecommunications networks.  • Improved the service management process by implementing ITIL ideologies, enabling management to better approach strategic and operational planning. Systems Engineer USMC - Great Lakes, IL June 2015 to July 2018 • Managed and built the network and server architecture for over ten production networks, supporting hundreds of users and millions of dollars' worth of information systems.  • Increased company effectiveness by creating new training publications that were essential in allowing our organization to complete multiple critical requirements.  • Formalized a large-scale enterprise infrastructure, cutting cost, providing higher availability, increasing collaboration, and allowing management to meet multiple unrecognized needs. Systems Administrator USMC - Camp Lejeune, NC June 2013 to June 2015 • Managed a team of 15 personnel, $10 million dollars of information systems, server, and hardware architecture, supporting over 700 users.  • Implemented a dynamic role-based proxy server that vastly optimized the network infrastructure over the current standard, creating a new organizational service standard.  • Redefined the service management process by creating a service request system, optimizing user capabilities. Desktop Support Specialist USMC - Camp Lejeune, NC June 2012 to June 2013 • Managed a four-person desktop support team which provided direct support to over 60 users for computers (hardware and software), voice/video services, and printers.  • Setup and configured over one thousand new user accounts in Active Directory and on Exchange mail servers. Education Bachelor's in Computer Networks and Cybersecurity University of Maryland-University College 2016 to Present Associate of Arts in General Studies in Computer Studies University of Maryland University College 2016 to 2019 Skills System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory, SCCM, DNS, System Administrator, Vmware Links http://linkedin.com/in/luke-gehrke-8a7751168 Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Service Country: United States Rank: Sergeant September 2011 to October 2019 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ CompTIA Network+ CompTIA Security+ ITIL v3 Foundation