Unix/ Linux Systems Engineer Unix/ Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Unix/ Linux Systems Engineer - IBM Austin, TX • Over 6+ years of experience in administration/architecture of Linux/Solaris Operating Systems in Standalone, Clustered environments.  • Experience in installation, configuration, and maintenance of Oracle Solaris 8, 9, and 10 and Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5, 6, and 7.  • Strong knowledge on Linux, Automation Tools like Puppet and Ansible.  • Installed Solaris using Jumpstart and Linux using Kickstart.  • Experience in administering Linux running on VMware ESX, vSphere  • Worked on Solaris Zones and LDOMs running on Solaris 10/11.  • Experience in Installing Firmware Upgrades, kernel patches, systems configuration, and performance tuning on UNIX/Linux systems.  • Worked on setting up LPARs and providing production support for AIX issues.  • Responsible for setting up EC2 instances on AWS Work Experience Unix/ Linux Systems Engineer IBM - Austin, TX July 2018 to Present • Responsible for design, build, deployment, patching and upgrade of Linux/Solaris servers.  • Responsible for providing 24x7 production support using Service Now and BMC tool.  • Responsible for setting up Redhat Satellite server 6.2 to manage RHEL 5/6/7 clients.  • Worked on deploying puppet modules into Redhat Satellite to manage configurations  • Automated Kickstart images installation, build, patching and configuration of 500+ Enterprise Linux servers on IBM x Series hardware.  • Responsible for applying OS patches for Solaris 10/11 and RHEL 5/6/7.  • Performed OS upgrades, migrations on Redhat, SuSE and Solaris  • Primary member of the team to successfully implement SPARC migration from Sun hardware to LDOMs running on Solaris 10 and Solaris 11.  • Experience working in NFS/NAS, Storage Area Networks (SAN), SSA disk storage environment. Extensively performed SAN Migration.  • Developed Ansible playbooks to configure, deploy and to maintain software components  • Configured LVM, NIS, NFS, Web Server, Samba server, DHCP server, NAT, Primary Secondary and cache-only DNS server. Administered mail servers.  • Responsible for setting up 3-node Oracle 10/11g RAC cluster on RHEL and Solaris.  • Extensively worked on subscription management to the Redhat Capsule/Satellite servers.  • Extensively worked on Software Development Life Cycle environments.  • Installed and configured Red Hat Network Satellite for managing and provisioning servers  • Experience with change control management using BMC Remedy tool and Service Now in handling Work Orders on production systems in a large datacenter environment.  • Migrated Linux virtual machines from one vCenter to another using vConverter.  • Responsible for running Ansible playbooks to register clients and manager OS patch.  • Responsible for setting three-node VCS on Linux and Solaris nodes.  • Experienced working with Veritas Volume Manager (VxVM) and Logical Volume Manager (LVM) on Solaris and Linux operating systems.  • Extensively worked on file systems like EXT2, EXT3, UFS, VxFS, VxDMP, VCFS, OCFS, OCFS2, ASM, and other journaling filesystems. Unix/Linux Administrator HID - Austin, TX February 2016 to June 2018 • Responsible for design, build, deployment, patching and upgrade of RHEL and SuSE.  • Extensively worked on setting up Linux VMs on VMware platform and Oracle VMs (LDOMs) on Solaris 10/11 OS.  • Responsible for setting up Redhat Satellite server 6.2 to manage 800+ Linux hosts.  • Extensively worked on subscription management for several linux clients to the Redhat Capsule/Satellite servers.  • Automated Kickstart images installation, build, patching and configuration of 500+ Enterprise Linux servers on Dell PowerEdge and Sun hardware.  • Responsible for applying OS patches for AIX, Solaris and Linux.  • Performed OS upgrades, migrations on Redhat, SuSE and Solaris  • Primary member of the team to successfully implement SPARC migration from Sun hardware to LDOMs running on Solaris 10 and Solaris 11.  • Extensively worked on Software Development Life Cycle environments.  • Experience with change control management using BMC Remedy tool in handling Work Orders on production systems in a large datacenter environment.  • Migrated Linux virtual machines from one vCenter to another using vConverter.  • Responsible for patching large number of Linux/Solaris servers using Satellite.  • Responsible for setting three-node VCS on Linux nodes.  • Experienced working with Veritas Volume Manager (VxVM) and Logical Volume Manager (LVM) on Solaris and Linux operating systems.  • Extensively worked on file systems like EXT2, EXT3, UFS, VxFS, VxDMP, VCFS, OCFS, OCFS2, ASM, and other journaling filesystems.  • Provided web server/ application like Apache, Tomcat, JBoss, WebLogic, Websphere support on UNIX environment.  • Experience with automating installations, post configurations, developing tools and day-to-day activities using shell scripts like bash and perl.  • Automated Jumpstart installation, build, configuration and support of 100+ Solaris 9/10 servers on Sun Sparc hardware.  • Installed and configured Solaris 10 zones. Performed Solaris Live Upgrade.  • Installed and configured Red Hat Network Satellite for managing, provisioning and monitoring RHEL 5 servers.  • Experiencing with configuring Netbackup on Linux and Solaris boxes.  • Responsible for setting up Development, Stage and Production Oracle10g RHEL  • Experience with Kernel upgrades, OCFS, OCFS2 and ASM upgrades from Oracle OTN in regular intervals for Development, Stage and Production Oracle 10g/Linux grid environment.  • Experience with Kernel upgrades from RHN, OCFS, OCFS2 and ASM upgrades from Oracle OTN in regular intervals for Development, Stage and Production Oracle 10g/Linux grid environment.  • Responsible for deploying Oracle database environments on large number of oracle enterprise Linux systems. Systems Administrator Wells Fargo - IN February 2013 to November 2015 • Installation and administration of RHEL 4, 5, and 6, Solaris 8, 9 and 10, and SUSE 9/10  • Configured kickstart server and applied patches to the servers using Satellite.  • Installation, configuration and administration of VMware, Solaris Zones and LDOMs.  • Installed, configured, cloned VMs on VMware 5, Vsphere 4.0, configured ESX hosts, adding datastores to ESX hosts, creating vswitches, templates, migrating VMs across ESX  • Running jobs and applying patches using HP Server Automation Tool (HPSA)  • Installed several security packages like SNORT, tcpd, tcp-wrappers & ASSET.  • Created, Implemented and maintained Disaster Recovery Site for File Server using DFS.  • Performed capacity analysis, monitored and controlled disk space usage on systems.  • Set up user and group login IDs, network configuration, password, resolving permission issues  • Checking the Logs for errors in the NAS boxes, having knowledge on snap lock volumes, thin provisioning and Fabric switch zoning (Brocade).  • Installation and maintaining the OpenStax hardware and software  • Implemented and Enhanced the Existing Scripts which are developed in BASH and Perl.  • Installation and up-gradation of the operating system (RHEL, Ubuntu) and other applications.  • Implementing Puppet for a start-up in preparation for compliance requirements due to an impending acquisition by a large, publicly traded company.  • Developed Ansible playbooks to configure, deploy and maintain software components of the existing/new infrastructure.  • Developed Puppet modules to automate deployment, configuration, and lifecycle management of key clusters.  • Wrote puppet manifests for deploying, configuring, and managing collectd for metric collection and monitoring.  • Build automatic provisioning system with kickstart and Puppet.  • Responsible for maintenance of development tools and utilities and to maintain shell, Perl automation Scripts.  • Set up and support network hardware using TCP/IP, SMB, VPN, IPSEC, VoIP.  • Manage a VoIP phone network, IPad and Microsoft Surface support/configuration.  • Worked with project manager and auditing teams to implement PCI compliance. Education Master's Degree in Computer and Information Science Southern Arkansas University Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University