Senior Security Engineer Senior Security Engineer Senior Security Engineer Iselin, NJ Christopher has over 5 years of experience with implementation of Network Security solutions. He has been engaged with Cisco Security related products since the past 6 years and has completed projects in more than 100 different customer environments. Work Experience Senior Security Engineer Securview - Edison, NJ August 2015 to March 2017 Manage and direct a group of Security Engineers.  ? Escalation Management  ? Present Powerpoint Presentations on-site for customer education.  ? Advise Sales team during the creation of Statement Of Work documents and templates.  ? Review and approve all customer deliverables of subordinate Security Engineers. Security Engineer Securview - Edison, NJ February 2013 to July 2015 Deliver Cisco Projects as a Cisco Red Badge Employee.  ? Travel on-site to implement Cisco technical solutions.  ? Create network diagrams, documentation, and test plans as Customer Deliverables.  ? Remotely configure and troubleshoot customer environments. Systems Administrator Securview - Edison, NJ February 2012 to January 2013 Create Floor Plans and Diagrams using Microsoft Visio  ? Data Center Inventory and Management  ? Shipping and receiving all technical devices.  ? Creation of Virtual Lab environments and management.  ? Analyze internal company requirements and purchase necessary hardware.  ? Troubleshoot and Resolve employee technical difficulties. Junior Systems Administrator Securiew - Edison, NJ January 2011 to January 2012 Virus and Spyware Removal  ? Conduct inventory on all corporate hardware.  ? Create inventory documentation.  ? Troubleshoot and Resolve employee technical difficulties. Education Biological Sciences RUTGERS UNIVERSITY - SCHOOL OF ARTS AND SCIENCE - New Brunswick, NJ September 2009 High School Diploma SAINT JOSEPH HIGH SCHOOL - Metuchen, NJ September 2005 to May 2009 Skills Cisco, Dns, Gsx, Virtualization, Visio, Freebsd, Linux, Http, Smtp, Ios, Excel, Microsoft office, Outlook, Powerpoint, Word, Microsoft visio, Windows xp