IT Manager/ Systems Administrator IT Manager/<span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Township of Galloway, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Manager/ Systems Administrator Alutiiq, llc. - Anchorage, AK May 2012 to Present 7 years IT Manager managing help desk staff, create, and package software applications for enterprise deployment using MS SCCM.  Creating user accounts in MS Active Directory and MS Exchange  Manage user and file share permissions in Active Directory  Manage computer, printer and hardware assets for West coast.  Maintain and upgrade as necessary conference and board rooms. Support board and executive VTC meeting. Travel with board or executive committees for support.  Create and maintain OS images for enterprise deployed machines as well as test new machines for possible future deployments.  Experience packaging and deploying various applications including Sophos  Work with IT Security to work on events on client machines alerted from Sophos Education Music Performance University of the Pacific 1996 to 2001 Skills Microsoft Active Directory (5 years), Windows Server (5 years), Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager (7 years), Excellent computer skills (7 years), HIPAA (Less than 1 year), System Administrator (6 years), System Admin (6 years), Active Directory Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ March 2013 to March 2019 NSTC Present North Slope Training Co-Operative, course taken 6/14 CompTIA Security+ July 2018 to July 2021 Additional Information Proven successful to create and support users and pc's in a large enterprise environment using basic troubleshooting to more complex methods. Well versed in remote support methods as well as using tools like Microsoft SCCM to remotely manage users, pc's, servers and applications in a 700+ client operation    RECENT ACTIVITIES:  Cisco CCNA training in progress    KEY COMPETENCIES:  Over 6 years as IT Manager managing help desk staff, system administration of MS SCCM, Windows updates and Golden image creation.   Creating user accounts in MS Active Directory and MS Exchange     Manage user and file share permissions in Active Directory     Manage computer, printer and hardware assets for West coast     Responsible for upgrading the Operating System from Windows 7 to 10 on 700 plus machines     Helped upgrade Operating Systems on servers from 2008 to 2012r2 on 30 or so servers     Package and install Server updates through SCCM and Windows Updates when necessary on a mixed farm of over 100 virtual and physical servers     Installing and configuring iDrac's on Dell servers     Installing and configuring APC management cards on APC UPS'     Responsible for upgrading MS Office over the years from 2007 to current 2016 on 700 plus machines     Maintain and upgrade as necessary conference and board rooms. Support board and executive VTC meetings. Travel with board or executive committees for support.     Create and maintain OS images for enterprise deployed machines as well as test new machines for possible future deployments.     Experience packaging and deploying various applications including Sophos, Office and Adobe     Work with IT Security to work on events on client machines alerted from Sophos