Site Reliability Engineer Site Reliability Engineer Site Reliability Engineer - Systems Administrators, Engineers Campbell, CA Seeking a varied and challenging Site Reliability Engineer position to utilize my vast experience to support and facilitate the organization's IT needs. Work Experience Site Reliability Engineer Various Inc - Campbell, CA June 2018 to Present • Serve as an escalation point for other Systems Administrators, Engineers, and other technology teams in the resolution of server and system problems.  • Plan, schedule, test and perform software installation and upgrades.  • Create and maintain documentation of systems and processes for existing and new systems  • Coordinate changes with application owners to ensure minimal user impact.  • Leverage automation tools like Puppet, in order to decrease end-to-end deployment times, reduce downtime, and increase reliability.  • Implement and maintain monitoring solutions at the server and application level in order to increase visibility into day-to-day operations and issues, Tivoli, Nagios, Solarwinds etc.  • Provide systems support by participating in rotational on-call support as well as performing recovery, maintenance and upgrades during weekend and evening hours.  • Manage the coordination, documentation and tracking of critical incidents ensuring rapid and complete issue resolution and appropriate closed loop to customers and other key stakeholders.  • Work upstream with Service Operations and Development to develop and maintain standard operator procedures and troubleshooting guides that improve time to mitigate.  • Good experience with Data center operations, VMWARE and storage applications. Senior Systems Engineer Armia Systems Pvt. Ltd May 2016 to April 2018 • Participated in root-cause analysis of recurring issues, system backup, and security setup  • Worked on Jet Backup, Pyxsoft Anti Malware application and disaster recovery operations  • Monitored server performance and prevented resource exhaustion  • Maintained security and mitigated threats as new ones were identified  • Interacted with clients using LiveChat, Teamviewer, Mattermost, Pidgin, Skype etc Systems Administrator Syntrio Technologies Pvt. Ltd July 2013 to May 2016 Worked as a Team Leader  ? Maintained web servers, file servers, firewalls, directory services, and user accounts  ? Interacted with all other support teams in support of the UNIX Midrange account  ? Worked on XenServer, Cron Job, Puppet, Mail Server Systems Administrator Quintet Solutions Pvt. Ltd July 2010 to August 2011 Resolved WHM and cPanel related issues  ? Experience in installation and troubleshooting of Linux Application Software and Tools from source as well as RPM  ? Solved server problems regarding mail, Apache, firewall etc.  ? Mastered Apache, OpenSSH, Exim, and DNS servers Systems Engineer Host Dime Pvt. Ltd November 2008 to February 2010 Provided third level response, analysis, and resolution for detected issues  ? Set up user and group login ID's, password, network configuration, resolving permissions issues, user and group quota  ? Advance level of experience in researching OS issues, applying Patches Education B.S in Computer Science and Engineering College of Engineering Kallooppara, Cochin University of Science And Technology - Kochi, Kerala Skills Data center, Data center operations, Nagios, Solarwinds, Tivoli