SMB Systems Administrator - Full Time SMB <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> - Full Time SMB Systems Administrator - Full Time - GDC IT Solutions Mechanicsburg, PA • Skills that include outstanding customer service, support, and management, attention to detail,  leadership skills, project prioritization and multi-tasking, logic driven aptitude and organization;  extensive troubleshooting experience from both local and remote clients and end-users.  • Proficient in Active Directory, Apple iPhone & iPad support, Android mobile device support,  MAC OSX, Microsoft Office Suite 2000-2019, Microsoft Windows 2000-Windows 10,  Microsoft Windows Server 2003-2019, Microsoft Exchange 2003-2016, Microsoft Hyper-V  2012-2016, Microsoft Office 365, and VMWare environments.  • Experience in the following Incident Management Tools: Symantec's Altiris, ServiceNow, BMC  Remedy IT Service Management, and Kaseya.  • Advanced knowledge of PC hardware and software, server support and integration, desktop  management and network connectivity through Dell SonicWALL, HP, Netgear, and Cisco  routers/switches and firewalls.  • Experience using the following server backup software: Veeam, Altaro, Symantec Backup Exec,  and Acronis  • Able to easily adapt to different customer infrastructure and software environments and provide  the service needed. Work Experience SMB Systems Administrator - Full Time GDC IT Solutions - Mechanicsburg, PA April 2010 to Present 40 Hr./Wk. + On-call schedule rotation)  • Consistently deliver quality customer support and manage customer expectation as per the Service Level Agreement (SLA).  • Understand and clearly document customer needs.  • Take part in pre and post-sales meetings and conversations.  • Resolve or assist in the resolution of customer inquiries and problems.  • Provide step by step remote troubleshooting via phone or email to long distance customers.  • Constantly striving to enhance and maintain customer based relationships.  • Account management which includes maintaining customer relationships and providing sales  assistance when needed. Being able to recommend products/solutions to customers so they are  compliant with present day industry standards.  • Analyzes client environment to properly research and recommends upgrades, custom solutions, and action items for client's hardware, software and licenses.  • Provide clients with cost analysis and justifications based on client budgets.  • Deliver deskside support to end users with hardware and software problems including  WAN/LAN connectivity, configurations, data recovery, printer troubleshooting, and configuration of mobile communication devices.  • Monitor, maintain, and troubleshoot Windows Servers, which include:  o Exchange servers  o Domain controllers  o File/print servers  o Microsoft Hyper-V and VMWare  o Office 365  • Responsible for maintaining 9+ SMB client networks/infrastructure at an efficient and productive  level as well as putting preventative measures in place to avoid cyber-attacks. Education Bachelor of Science in Network Administration Western Governor's University June 2016 Associates of Applied Science in Network Systems Technology Kaplan University May 2010