Senior Systems Engineer/Database Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer/Database <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Systems Engineer/Database Administrator Boston, MA ? 8 Years of IT experience and well-honed expertise in Database Administration, Support of MSSQL Server 2014, 2012, 2008R2, 2008, 2005 databases in Production, Testing, Development and Replication & Cluster Server Environments.  ? In a 24X7 Production support environment, worked extensively in providing end to end service to customer for SQL incidents. Being a line 2 point of escalation, handled all kinds of escalations, client Interactions and contributing KB articles for team enhancement.  ? Experience in upgrading MSSQL Server 2005 to MSSQL Server 2008, 2008 R2, 2012 and handled all SQL administration related issues which includes, installing, configuring (both standalone and clustered installations) and troubleshooting Always on, Replication, Mirroring, Clustering and log shipping failures.  ? Backup/recovery strategies, file specifications, bringing a server to Microsoft standards are part of daily activities.  ? Maintained high availability tools of SQL servers by proactively monitoring the critical services in a support environment, monitoring event viewer, SQL error logs for hardware and software related errors. Experience in performance tuning, monitoring dashboard reports for performance tuning, improving the query performance using DTA and finding bottlenecks in databases. Having good knowledge in solving issues on SSMS, SSCM, SSAS, SSIS, SSRS, DB ENGINE SERVICE and SQL Service agent at cluster and standalone level.  ? Worked on controlling user privileges, monitoring the security and Audit issues. Also administering Security by setting up Groups and then Logins for each Roles or Users for Maintenance of Databases at database level, server level and windows level.  ? Experienced in providing good production support for 24x7 over weekends on rotation basis Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Systems Engineer/Database Administrator Infosys Limited June 2011 to July 2018 Tenure: Jun2011-Jul2018    Description: Worked in the team (Line 1 and Line 2) as a senior resource ( Systems Engineer).Involved in various issues under incident management like handling. Break fix issues, incidents, requests etc. Maintained Microsoft Server for all the SQL Server related queries/issues and having good experience in configuration and troubleshooting High Availability Tools of Microsoft SQL server like, Replication, Mirroring, Log shipping and Clustering.  Responsibilities:  ? As a SQL DBA for IMS team, I am responsible for responding to high-level troubleshooting requests from various teams and team members.  ? Implemented the issues as per the user requirements.  ? Troubleshooting on SQL Server Full, Differential, Transaction Log Backup Failures  ? Troubleshooting on SQL Server Database Data File Full/ Log File Full issues.  ? Good hands On Log shipping, always on, Clustering and Mirroring.  ? Worked on 2node and geo clustering.  ? Worked under Active/passive Clustering environment.  ? Implemented Log shipping and mirroring as a part of HA and DR.  ? Supported Customer service databases which are more than 2TB.  ? Implementation of SQL Logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of users.  ? Played an active role in requirements gathering, blueprint, design, configuration and documented  ? Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan and disaster recovery strategies Implemented.  ? Involved in trouble shooting and fine-tuning of databases for its performance and concurrency  ? Complete documentation about the database Created groups, roles, users and assigned access privileges to users.  ? Scheduled jobs and alerts using SQL Server Agent.  ? Documented HA and DR strategies and actively Participated in DR Test.  ? Updating/Deleting File stream Data.  ? Implemented Robocopy process with SQL Agent to automate the file transfer  ? Troubleshoot issues with Availability Groups/Replicas/Databases/Listener  ? Handling issues with Databases out of sync in Availability Groups  ? Configuring backup strategies for Databases in Availability Groups  ? Monitoring Event viewer, SQL Error logs and Log File Viewer for Software and hardware related errors.  ? Experience in Performance Tuning, troubleshooting. Monitoring Dashboard Reports for Performance Tuning and finding bottlenecks in database.  ? Expertise in handling Incidents, Service Requests.  ? Replication, Always On Availability Groups and Clustering.  ? Flexible, enthusiastic and project oriented team player with solid communication and leadership skills to develop creative solution for challenging client needs.  ? Monitoring the alerts of the job failures, log file issues and data file issues  ? Involved in Building out New secondary Data- center servers, by configuring SQL 2005/2008/2012 with DR Strategy.  ? Geo-Clustering with 2 and 3 nodes (multi-subnet.  ? Experience working in Active/Passive, Active/Active cluster environment.  ? Experience with HA/DR SAN Production environment - always on.  ? Expertise implementing high availability with Always on Availability Groups and failover clustering.    Environment: MS SQL Server 2008/2008R2/2012, Business Intelligence - MS SQL Server Integrated Services (SSIS) and MS SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), SQL Agent, SQL Profiler, Database Mail, T- SQL, Windows2003/2008 server, SQL sentry, Visual Studio. Education Bachelor's Skills Bmc (Less than 1 year), databases (7 years), Ms sql server (7 years), Sql (7 years), Sql server (7 years) Additional Information KEY COMPETENCIES:  ? Databases: Microsoft SQL Server 2000, 2005, 2008 and 2012  ? Operating Systems: Windows 2003, Windows Server 2008, 2008 R2 and 2012  ? Tools: MS Office, ITSM (IT Service Manager), BMC Remedy.