Lead Senior Systems Administrator Lead Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Lead Senior Systems Administrator - TEKsystems Work Experience Lead Senior Systems Administrator TEKsystems 2019 to Present Administer Windows Servers operating on Server 2008R2, and Exchange Server 2016R2 monitoring  daily activity to ensure optimal performance of mission critical business systems.  • Migrate VMware in a cluster environment.  • Updating and Patching Production servers.  • Working with GPO.  • Working with Cybersecurity to maintain the integrity of all servers.  • Moving local server to the IPv6 protocol.  • Installing SQL 2014 and troubleshooting network issues.  • Building and configure Microsoft Windows Servers.  • Building Domain Controller for new environment  • Configuring DNS  • Trouble shooting DNS  • Running Scat Scan    • Build WSUS Server  • Migrate Infrastructure to new Data Center  • Setup SFTP Server  • Configured Symantec NetBackup  • Office 365 Systems Administrator American Systems - Chantilly, VA, US 2018 to 2019 Administer Windows Servers operating on Server 2008R2, and Exchange Server 2016R2 monitoring  daily activity to ensure optimal performance of mission critical business systems.  • Deployed, upgraded, and supported PC operating systems, hardware, software applications, and peripherals.  • Supported network and IT infrastructure through ongoing repair and maintenance of critical systems.  • Updating and Patching Production servers.  • Install and configure various applications to support business needs  • Planning, configuring and installing SharePoint Server for test environment.  • Identified and troubleshot issues to remediate software and hardware problems impacting performance  and user experience with in-house applications.  • Employed imaging software to apply standard images for wide-scale installation and deployment on new  computers and laptops.  • Administered Microsoft Active Directory and Exchange environments.  • Installing and configuring SQL  • Have a good understanding of DoD security hardening, collection and assessment processes and methodology as they related to DoDI 8500.01, Cybersecurity, and DoDI 8510.01, Risk Management  Framework (RMF) for DoD Information  • Understanding of the DoD Architecture Framework DoDAF) and how it relates and impacts Army IT  programs and capabilities.  • Has recent and relevant DoD and Army systems, server and operating systems hands-on administration  experience. Consultant Sensei Enterprises - Fairfax, VA 2017 to 2018 Administer Windows Servers operating on Server 2003, 2008R2, 2012R2 and Exchange Server 2016  monitoring daily activity to ensure optimal performance of mission critical business systems.  • Deployed, upgraded, and supported PC operating systems, hardware, software applications, and peripherals.  • Ensure compliance with security protocols, configure firewalls, and apply software updates to prevent  intrusions and malicious activities.  • Install and configure various applications to support business needs including Microsoft Office, Hyper-V, VMware and VPN, etc.  • Supported network and IT infrastructure through ongoing repair and maintenance of critical systems.  • Diagnosed, troubleshot, and resolved complex technical issues.  • Administered Microsoft Active Directory and Exchange environments. Systems Administrator Enterprise Database Corp - Gainesville, VA 2015 to 2017 Administer Windows Servers operating on Server 2003, 2008R2, 2012R2 and Exchange Server 2016  monitoring daily activity to ensure optimal performance of mission critical business systems.  • Proactively address potential problems through analysis and troubleshooting.  • Ensure compliance with security protocols, configure firewalls, and apply software updates to prevent  intrusions and malicious activities.  • Responsible for scheduled SQL maintenance.    • Installed and currently manage the System Center 2012 Data Protection Manager for the protection of Microsoft workloads and environments.  • Additional responsibilities include administration of Group Policy Manager and failover clustering.  • Install and configure various applications to support business needs including Microsoft Office, Hyper-V, VPN, etc.  Key Accomplishments:  • Planned and deployed two new Data Center to address the requirements of an enterprise network  deployed SonicWALL Firewall, Cisco firewall. Successfully configured and deployed 25 servers and 75  virtual machines. Systems Engineer/ Security Analyst Oasys-Itd - Peoria, IL 2012 to 2015 • Configured and maintained Windows Servers in an enterprise environment.  • Deployed, upgraded, and supported PC operating systems, hardware, software applications, and peripherals.  • Executed daily system monitoring to verify the integrity and availability of all hardware, server resources, critical systems, and key processes.  • Ensured the completion of scheduled jobs through a thorough review of system and application logs.  • Identified and troubleshot issues to remediate software and hardware problems impacting performance  and user experience with in-house applications.  • Managed domain controllers and users.  • Employed tools such as Acronis, Symantec Ghost, or SCCM to push out new images or software  upgrades.    Key Accomplishments:  • Successfully configured and deployed into a dynamic enterprise environment tools and applications such as Nextgen and Centricity EMR, Office 365, Hyper-V, and IIS web. Senior Technical Engineer Vitel Net - McLean, VA 2011 to 2012 Contract)  • Provided best in class user support ensuring optimal performance of operating systems, applications, hardware, and all peripheral devices.  • Engaged local and remote users to identify and resolve diverse issues with their assigned hardware and applications.  • Employed imaging software to apply standard images for wide-scale installation and deployment on new  computers and laptops. Network Engineer/Field Technician NT Connections - McLean, VA 2010 to 2011 • Supported network and IT infrastructure through ongoing repair and maintenance of critical systems.  • Administered Microsoft Active Directory and Exchange environments.  • Applied patches and upgrades as well as performing routine maintenance on servers and software.  • Diagnosed, troubleshot, and resolved complex technical issues.  • Employed remote access tools using SSL, Global VPN, and SonicWALL. Education Microsoft Certified Professional University of Maryland University - College Park, MD Skills Active directory, Cisco, Data center, Dns, Exchange, Firewalls, Networking, Tcp/ip, Virtualization, Dhcp, Lan/wan, Remote access, Tcp, Vmware, Vpn, Hyper-v, Udp, Qualys, Ssl, Sql Additional Information Technical Proficiencies  Operating Systems: Windows XP/7/10 platform, 2008/2008R2 Server 2016, Data Center 2012R2, Exchange  2016,  Networking: LAN/WAN, TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, STP, UDP  Networking: Equipment: routers, switches, SSL VPN, Remote Access Solutions  Virtualization: Microsoft Hyper-V, VMware  Security Tools: Qualys, SIEMS, SEPM, Firewalls,  Configuration & Installation: SQL 2005-2008, Windows Server 2003-2012, Exchange, VoIP, Exchange 2016,  Windows 10  Servers: Windows, Exchange Server 2007/2016, 365, Blackberry, Active Directory  Mobility: Blackberries, iPhone, Android  Tools: Kaseya Management Tools, Bomgar Remote Tools, Webex  Ticket Tracking: ConnectWise, Sage Time sheet  Applications: Microsoft Office 365, Outlook, SharePoint 2016, Worldox, Sage  Other: Acronis, Symantec Ghost, or SCCM  IP Phones 3cx SIP, Cisco, Polycom