Systems Engineer II <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer II San Antonio, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Engineer II Harland Clarke Holdings - San Antonio, TX February 2017 to Present Technological Proficiencies:  - Microsoft Active Directory, Group Policy, DNS, and DHCP  - Citrix Xenapp/XenDesktop 5.4, 6.5, 7.6 LTSR, 7.8, 7.12, 7.15 LTSR  - Citrix App Layering/Unidesk  - Citrix Workspace Environment Management  - Citrix NetScaler Gateway  - Dell Wyse Thin/Thick Client  - iGel Thin Client  - SolarWinds Network Monitoring  - Microsoft Systems Center Configuration Manager  - Microsoft Windows Server 2003, 2008, 2008 R2, 2012, 2012r2  - Microsoft Windows 7, 10  - Microsoft SQL Server 2008 r2 - 2014  - VMware Vsphere 6.0  - Powershell and batch file scripting    Responsibilities:  - Create Baselines/Rebuild/Manage servers via VMware Vsphere 6.0.  - Manage Active Directory for the site including User, Machine and Security Group profile creation; creating and applying Group Policy; parent/child OU, structuring/configuration.  - Patching of Windows Desktops and Windows Server OS via IBM Big Fix.  - Architect and manage all Citrix XenDesktop environments.  - Resolve production issues and minimize system down time.  - Develop system reports including the health and status of domain-based systems.  - Provide thorough documentation for any server/application creation, upgrades, or changes.    Accomplishments:  - Migration from Citrix VDI in a Box to Citrix XenDesktop 7.6 LTSR environment.  - Upgrade from Citrix XenDesktop 7.6 LTSR to 7.15 LTSR.  - Consolidate Citrix XenDesktop Master images into single universal image driven by Group Policy.  - Active Directory cleanup and Group Policy consolidation Systems Engineer BioBridge Global - San Antonio, TX November 2015 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  - Server creation including the configuration of hardware, peripherals, services, settings and storage via VMware Vsphere 6.0.  - Managed site’s Active Directory including profile/GPO creation, OU and subfolder structuring and configuration.  - Managed DHCP and DNS services.   - Applied Windows Desktop and Server Operating System patches via WSUS and SCCM 2012r2.   - Ensured that system hardware, operating systems, software systems, and related procedures adhere to organizational values.  - Managed the enterprise Citrix 5.0, 6.5, 7.8, 7.12 environments.  - Resolved production issues and minimized system down time.  - Developed system reports including the health and status domain-based systems.  - Assisted in the creation/implementation of new Standard Operating Procedures concerning projects and new applications.  - Provided adequate change control documentation for any server/application creation, upgrade, or change.  - Provided Tier 2 and 3 support when necessary.    Accomplishments:  - Implemented Systems Center Configuration Manager 2012 R2 environment, enabling Operating System deployments, client monitoring, software updates, and Application pushes.  - Deployed the Citrix 7.8 environment.   - Upgraded the Citrix 7.8 environment to 7.12.  - Assisted in the Citrix Sharefile Implementation project. Systems Administrator Biobridge Global - San Antonio, TX June 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities  - Server creation including the configuration of hardware, peripherals, services, settings and storage via VMware Vsphere 6.0.  - Managed site’s Active Directory including profile/GPO creation, OU and subfolder structuring and configuration.  - Managed DHCP and DNS services.   - Managed the enterprise Citrix 5.0, 6.5 environments.  - Ensured that system hardware, operating systems, software systems, and related procedures adhere to organizational values.  - Served as the technical lead on backup systems (EMC Networker).  - Resolved production issues and minimized system down time.  - Developed system reports including the health and status domain-based systems.  - Managed configuration, setup, and deployment of Dell Wyse thin clients.   - Applied Windows Desktop and Server Operating System patches via WSUS and SCCM 2012r2.   - Scripted different processes including application automation, software deployment/updates, server maintenance and cleanup.    Accomplishments:  -Successfully replaced Microsoft Office 2007 with Office 2013 on enterprise systems. Desktop Support Analyst Biobridge Global - San Antonio, TX January 2013 to June 2014 Responsibilities  - Installed, updated, and maintained enterprise desktops and their applications including upgrades as assigned.  - Managed and deployed laptops along with related peripherals  - Configured, installed, and managed Dell Wyse Thin and Thick clients.  - Administration of enterprise Xenapp and Citrix environment.  - Tier 1 level Active Directory management including: user and group profile creations, unlocking/resetting of accounts, and security group management.  - Creation of Microsoft Exchange accounts.   - Configuration and management of mobile devices including Android and iOS devices.  - Logged and updated tickets via the BMC Track-IT ticketing system.  - Answered phones and performed Tier 1 and 2 troubleshooting.  - Contacted third-party support and PC equipment vendors when necessary.  - System imaging via Symantec Ghost.  - Cleaned infected computers of malware/adware.  - Created change control documentation within SharePoint.    Accomplishments:  - Headed cost saving project of researching, configuring, and deploying of the Dell Wyse thin and zero clients to replace standard desktops. Education None in Computer Science Northwest Vista College - San Antonio, TX August 2009 to May 2010 Skills Active Directory (6 years), Tech Support (6 years), Desktop Support (6 years), Vmware (6 years), SCCM (3 years), System Administrator (6 years), Citrix XenDesktop/Xenapp (5 years), Powershell (5 years), DNS (5 years), iGel Administration and Configuration (2 years) Additional Information -Strong conceptual and analytical skills.  -Ability to manage multiple diverse tasks simultaneously.  -Strong project management.  -Always looking to looking to learn new technology  -Works very well with others.  -Able to work independently.  -Fast learner.  -Great customer service.  -Self-starter.