Linux System Administrator Linux <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Linux System Administrator - McKesson • Over 6+ years of UNIX System and Network administration in Linux (RedHat 4/5/6)  • Server Installations, configurations, upgrades and migrations on Linux and Unix.  • Configure and manage Middleware and web tools such as Apache, Tomcat, WebSphere, JBoss.  • Storage Provisioning, Volume and Filesystem Management using Veritas Volume Manager and Veritas Filesystem (Veritas Storage Foundation), Configuring ZFS filesystems.  • Customized patching and maintenance of Linux servers on regular schedule.  • Worked on different platform on SUSE Linux which includes 10.x, 11.x  • Regular work involving building new Linux Physical and Virtual servers using kickstart and PXE.  • Good working knowledge of network & UNIX security procedures.  • Administrating and troubleshooting Red Hat Cluster Suites.  • Participate in installing and configuring of UNIX/Linux based Oracle 10g products  • Strong knowledge of large-scale Linux deployment methodologies, kernel configuration, performance monitoring, and tuning  • Experienced in working with Network Engineers to install, manage, and configure NAS based storage and insure overall system and network security.  • Worked with WebSphere team in order to configure WAS instances for BMC patrol.  • Hitachi, EMC SAN installation and tuning of NetBackup server environment.  • Provide 24x7 on call server support for UNIX environment. Work Experience Linux System Administrator McKesson - Phoenix, AZ January 2017 to Present • Linux (RedHat 3/4/5/6) UNIX System and Network administration in Server Installations, configurations, upgrades and migrations on Linux.  • Troubleshooting all kinds of UNIX problems and assisting users.  • Day to day review Remedy tickets and resolved them. Involve in change management and Incident reporting.  • Involved in installing infrastructure and maintaining the performance of server, availability. Storage system software and functionality and interface components.  • Experience in Web and Application Servers Web logic 10.3.x or 9.x and iPlanet.  • Experience in Redhat and SUSE Linux Operation system and Vormetric Encryption.  • Responsible for patching and upgrading all SUSE Linux Servers.  • Kernel upgrade on RHEL and SUSE.  • Storage Provisioning, Volume and Filesystem Management using Veritas Volume Manager and Veritas Filesystem (Veritas Storage Foundation), Configuring ZFS filesystems.  • Installation of RHEL, SUSE Linux, Centos and Fedora on physical server and virtual server.  • Configuring kickstart server on SUSE Linux.  • Responsible for set up of BMC Patrol Agents V3.6.50.11i and 3.6.60i environment on UNIX Servers.  • Experienced working with scripting like shell and Perl.  • Involved in troubleshooting shell scripts.  • Working knowledge of Windows 2003/2008 OS.  • Wrote & automated security audit scripts in the environment.  • Knowledge of Kickstart and PXE administration.  • Experience with IBM Power4, Power5, Power6 and Power7 virtualization.  • Administering and troubleshooting of Redhat Clustering.  • Hands on experience using the VI editor.  • Knowledge of HP blades and service manager.  • Experience with storage networking, with vendors/technologies such as iSCSI, SAN/NAS, data center storage consolidation, EMC, EVA, NetApp, HDS, HP, or Supported and Good Knowledge of designing IT architectures for storage and backup in the enterprise.  • Created RAID volumes using RAID Controllers and LSI Hardware.    Environment: UNIX/RedHat Linux, Vi Editor, Oracle11G, Shell Scripts, VMWARE & SAN/NAS. UNIX Administrator ARC Document Solutions - Chicago, IL August 2015 to December 2017 • Perform system installs and performance tuning, configure and administer LPAR's.  • Perform day to day LVM operations and System Admin tasks.  • Create virtual media repository and LPAR dedicated virtual optical drives in the VIO servers to make new installations, cloning and migrations faster and easier.  • Set up and troubleshoot issues with Secure Shell in the environment to accommodate script automation and password changes.  • Installed WebSphere Portal Server 5.1/6.0/6.1 and enabled Web Content management.  • Experience in NetApp storage devices, setup, configuration, operations and connecting to pSeries hardware.  • Solid understanding of Keon theory, being able to make directory architectural recommendations such as additions to DIT, schema extensions and indexing, Analyze and implements ACLs.  • Experience with Integrated Virtualization Manager (IVM)  • Responsible for installation and maintenance of VFSX in a clustered environment.    Environment: Unix/RedHat Linux, Vi Editor, Shell Scripts, VMWARE & Oracle11G. UNIX Systems Administrator MEDTRONICS - Tempe, AZ October 2013 to June 2015 • Server Installations, configurations, upgrades and migrations on Linux and Unix.  • Experienced in working with Network Engineers to install, manage, and configure NAS based storage and insure overall system and network security.  • Experience with storage networking, with vendors/technologies such as iSCSI, SAN/NAS, data center storage consolidation, EMC, NetApp, HDS, HP, or Supported and Good Knowledge of designing IT architectures for storage and backup in the enterprise.  • Storage Provisioning, Volume and Filesystem Management using Veritas Volume Manager and Veritas Filesystem (Veritas Storage Foundation), Configuring ZFS filesystems.  • Configuring UNIX environments for Oracle Databases such as kernel configurations, filesystem layouts, ora file configurations.  • Oracle database support on UNIX/Linux. Tuning kernel and memory parameters for optimum database performance.  • Perform auditing on UNIX/Linux Servers for security compliance and monitoring.  • Plan, design, install, configure, troubleshoot, administer and performance tune Red Hat Linux Version, HP-UX, and SLES Linux.  • Setup and configured network TCP/IP including RPC connectivity for NFS.  • Configured and administrated LPARs.  • Responsible for installation and maintenance of VFSX in a clustered environment.  • Administration and maintenance of WAS ND clusters (vertical, horizontal) and deployment of applications in highly available, load balanced production environments.  • Developed web service integration layer for Web Sphere Portal. Install and configure Web Sphere Portal 5.1/6.0 on UNIX and Windows.  • 24x7 on call server support for UNIX environment.    Environment: Linux, Oracle, DB2, HTTP Server and Unix Shell Scripting. Education Higher Secondary(12th Pass) Skills LINUX (5 years), UNIX (5 years), NETWORKING (4 years), VERITAS (4 years), VERITAS VOLUME MANAGER (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    O/S: RHEL (4, 5), Linux, Unix, Windows 2000/NT4.0  Hardware: HP, DELL, IBM, PSeries, SUN Enterprise.  Servers: HTTP Server, HTML, DHTML, XML, Java Script, JSP, Servlets, EJB, Apache 2.2, Tomcat 5.5, Active MQ  Networking: TCP/IP, RPC, UDP, NIS, NFS, DNS, DHCP, Cisco Routers/Switches, LAN.  RDBMS: IBM UDB2, Oracle 7.x/8.0/9i, MS-SQL Server 7.0/6.5 and MS-Access 97/95.  Languages: UNIX Shell Programming (ksh, csh, sh), Verilog HDL, Matlab with toolboxes, SQL.  Applications: Samba, Tivoli (TSM), VERITAS Volume Manager.