Linux Systems Administrator / Engineer Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> / Engineer Linux Systems Administrator / Engineer - Client - CITI BANK To obtain employment with a company as a DevOps/Linux Systems Engineer/ Administrator where I can utilize my six years of technical experience in provisioning, configuration and maintenance of Linux and UNIX based servers. Work Experience Linux Systems Administrator / Engineer Client - CITI BANK - Irving, TX July 2018 to Present Technical Environment - Red Hat and UNIX  Responsibilities  ? Providing support to systems including daily operations, monitoring, decommissioning problem solving for all the client related servers.  ? Maintaining and administering 15000+ servers including Physical and virtual and Cloud.  ? Providing supports and provides Tier 1 (Help Desk) and Tire 1.5 Escalation problem identification, diagnosis and resolution of problems and ensure servers are online and in workable healthy state.  ? Expert level of experience on Change Management as well as Service Now queue Management.  ? Monitor ticket queue to attend user and system calls, attend team meetings, change control meetings to update installation progress, and for upcoming changes in environment.  ? Monitoring system performance performing Linux OS installation, upgrades patching, tuning and troubleshooting.  ? Hands on experience in using Bash scripts to automate daily repetitive tasks.  ? Performing restoring virtual machines Backups and snapshots.  ? Worked as a part of DevOps team with hands on experience working on various tools like Puppet, CHEF Ansible and Git.  ? Experienced in writing and using playbooks from Ansible Tower for server provisioning, orchestration, software patching, configuration, and deployment.  ? Managing server by using CHEF, adding recipes and cook book, Managing attributes.  ? Experienced in patching manually as well as with Automation such as Ansible and CHEF.  ? Installation and removing of various kind of packages through CHEF.  ? Experienced in flipping servers live (from Pre to Prod) along with the build team to rebuild servers and work with them until go live through Ansible playbooks by registering them to various scanning tools such as BES CLIENT, BIG FIX, TAD4D.  ? Hand on experience and Well versed with backups through VMware Bravura and NetBackup and in troubleshooting various Error Codes with regards to VDAP Backups for both, Windows and Linux servers.  ? Expert level of experience of Server Migration.  ? Worked on Linux kernel, memory upgrades and swaps area. Red hat Linux Kickstart Installation.  ? Configuring multipath, adding SAN and creating physical volumes, volume groups, logical volumes.  ? Collect and analyze current system settings. Evaluate, test, and deploy audit remediation settings working closely on compliance reports.  ? Monitored System Activities like CPU, Memory, Disk and Swap space usage to avoid any performance issues.  ? Deep understanding of working with NAS, DAS, and SAN storage technologies.  ? Experienced in System Backup using tar for local systems and Veritas Net backup for enterprise wide backup and recovery.  ? Hands on knowledge of creating and managing filesystems and logical volumes.  ? Performing vulnerability scans and monitoring critical alerts to secure system and optimize performance.  ? Performing servers decommissioning on daily basis using CAS (CTI Automation tool).  ? Scheduling, disabling and enabling of Cronjobs.  ? Working with Application team during the COB test and SAN migration.  ? Using SSH keygen to generate keyless authentication for accessing services.  ? Proficient in setting up RAID levels (0, 1, 2, 5, 6, 10) and RAID level management on Dell (R series) and HP ProLiant (DL370 and DL380) servers. Linux Systems Administrator / Engineer Client - New York-Presbyterian Hospital, N.Y.C - New York, NY May 2015 to June 2018 Technical Environment - Red Hat, Centos and UNIX  Responsibilities  ? Maintained and administered more than 1000 physical and virtual servers.  ? Provide direct user support for level 2 and level 3 issues via email and ticket system.  ? Installed and configured virtual machines on VMware ESXI servers.  ? Installed, configured and administered Red Hat, CentOS other UNIX based operating systems.  ? Used PXE Boot to install servers along with kickstart.  ? Experience in working with Amazon Web Services (AWS) to create AWS instances with S3 storage and EBS storage.  ? performed application deployment to AWS Elastic Bean Stack environment.  ? Experience in creating alarms and notifications for EC2 instances using Cloud Watch.  ? Worked with IAM service creating new IAM users & groups, defining roles and policies and Identity providers.  ? Configured Selinux for system security and firewall using IP tables.  ? troubleshoot network related issues and setup/configure network interfaces on servers.  ? Performed vulnerability scanning, use system hardening and software patching to make system more secure.  ? Created and managed Logical Volume using LVM to create volumes on the volume groups, and file systems, extending/reducing logical volumes and file systems.  ? Installed and configured DNS, DHCP, NIS, NFS, MySQL and PXE Boot Server.  ? Deployed configuration management tools such as PUPPET and ANSIBLE for automation.  ? Deploy PUPPET master and agent nodes in production environment for installing and updating processes.  ? Working directly under directors and managers to update team's documentation portal.  ? Worked closely with incident management teams to troubleshoot reports and proactively find the resolutions pertaining to the critical issue that may affect production servers.  ? Actively monitoring Systems health using Nagios products and responding to tickets generated by Nagios and users on RT platform  ? Configuring and securing Linux based servers using inter security policies.  ? Experience in working with Ansible versions 1.8 & 2.0, Tower version 2.1.  ? Used Ansible for configuring and managing multi-nodes.  ? Automate processes through ANSIBLE playbook for virtual and physical instances such as provisioning, configuration, patching and deployment.  ? Experience in scheduling jobs using Ansible Tower.  ? Configure raid levels depending on type of data to be held on servers.  ? Expertise in maintaining various network facilities, including Network File System (NFS) and Network Information System (NIS).  ? Strong experience in using VIM, other editors.  ? Equipped with strong oral and written communication skills.  ? Assisting with network troubleshooting including the use of the tcpdump tool and wireshark.  ? Performed System performance monitoring of Virtual memory, Swap Space, CPU utilization and disk I/O.  ? Performed system monitoring and analysis by using SAR, NETSTAT, IOSTAT, VMSTAT Linux Systems Administrator Client - Verizon Wireless - Orangeburg, NY March 2012 to April 2015 Technical Environment - Red Hat, Centos and Windows  Responsibilities  ? Managed over 700 CentOS servers running various services such as Apache, PHP, and MySQL.  ? Worked on day to day basis with system administrators and management teams to find the best solutions for problems.  ? Installation and configuration of Nagios/NPRE plugging for monitoring system performance.  ? Performing RPM and YUM package installations, patch and other server management.  ? Managed disks on Redhat and CentOS servers using LVM (logical volume manager), creating volumes, file system and resizing volumes.  ? Performed Vmware ESXI software installation, part of VSphere environment on bare metal hardware and implemented several virtual hosts on the top of ESXI environment.  ? Managed virtual hosts on Vmware ESXI using Vsphere client to connect with Vcenter server for management purposes.  ? Coordinated with team members to ensure server reliability and prevent unexpected downtime.  ? Strong experience in working with virtual and physical LINUX hosts and involved in daily administrative activities such as maintaining users accounts, password management, providing file permissions to specific users through ACL.  ? Configured local YUM repository for internal network usage.  ? Troubleshoot system glitches, monitor system performance, network connectivity hardware, CPU utilization and memory.  ? Expertise in scheduling job with Cronjob.  ? Experience in creating shell scripts with bourne again shell(bash).  ? Used VIM editor to configure important configuration files.  ? Performed systems routine backups using Cronjobs and Tar ball.  ? Strong experience in using various network protocols like HTTP, UDP,TCP/IP and FTP.  ? Provided support by troubleshooting daily issues in production and development environment. Skills LINUX, RED HAT, NAS, NFS, UDP