Senior Systems Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Jacksonville, FL Diligent and highly motivated Systems Administrator with a strong focus on security and a proven ability to deliver solutions tied to organizational development and systems management. Skilled troubleshooter and organizer, comfortable managing systems and projects in all IT environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator Farah & Farah, P.A. - Jacksonville, FL October 2016 to Present Responsible for managing the IT infrastructure and operation of a multi- site law firm, including all servers, network and VPN communications, backup and disaster recovery projects, and policy creation. Systems Administrator Millennium Software Developers - Jacksonville, FL August 2016 to October 2016 Administrator for Windows systems and accounts in the Azure and O365 environment. Responsible for Citrix management including the creation and maintenance of Master Images, Machine Catalogs, and Delivery Groups. Information Technology Specialist Charter Schools USA - Jacksonville, FL October 2014 to August 2016 Responsible for support of all systems and peripherals in assigned schools. Created locked down GPOs used by all schools for NWEA and FSA testing on student laptops. Expert on FOG imaging software, provided training and troubleshooting for other technicians in the company. Lead Technician Tiger Direct - Jacksonville, FL March 2013 to October 2014 In charge of training new technicians and making sure the shop ran according to the company's SOP. Provided extensive installations and repairs of software and hardware on a myriad of laptops and desktops. Education High School Diploma River Ridge High School - Port Richey, FL 1998 to 2002 Skills Active Directory (5 years), Security (4 years), IIS (3 years), VOIP (3 years), Linux (3 years), Vmware (3 years), Linux Administrator (3 years), System Administration (5 years), Network Administration (4 years), Disaster Recovery (3 years), Asset Management (4 years), Training & Development (6 years), Group Policy (5 years), System Administrator, System Admin, SCCM Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ December 2010 to Present CompTIA Network+ February 2017 to January 2021 CompTIA Security+ August 2017 to January 2021 CompTIA Advanced Security Practitioner January 2018 to January 2021 CompTIA Cybersecurity Analyst February 2019 to February 2022 CompTIA Security Analytics Expert February 2019 to February 2022 Assessments Technical Support — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/hmggyvbe56bmpins Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/8yqupegwqn6bithv Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.