Linux Systems Administrator Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Linux Systems Administrator - General Dynamics IT Laurel, MD Cloud Infrastructure engineer with an active security clearance and over 5+ years of experience implementing complex cloud and on-premise infrastructure projects for Federal clients. Looking to tackle more challenging cloud migration projects on AWS and Azure in the Public sector space. Work Experience Linux Systems Administrator General Dynamics IT - Fairfax, VA July 2017 to Present Led team of infrastructure engineers in multiple on premise to cloud migration projects for Federal clients including DoD.    ? Migrated tier 1 to tier 3 level support operations from excel based tracking to ServiceNow cloud offering.  ? Rebuilt on premise infrastructure for workstation monitoring and management on AWS cloud platform and completed migration activities.  ? Responsible for designing, building and supporting a secure Cloud DevOps platform based on industry standards, best practices and guidelines.  ? Researches new technologies and products for their applicability to business processes.  ? Deploy and maintain web application technologies and middleware solutions on Windows platform.  ? Compare various solutions and determine the one which best fits the need.  ? Design, develop and maintain Windows based instances and backend applications.  ? Review the current architectural landscape and make appropriate recommendations.  ? Compare various solutions and determine the one which best fits the need.  ? Provide professional support services and/or the integration of their respective products.  ? Implement the products based on best practices.  ? Determine technical standards and specifications and lead the design, build and support of shared services cloud platform components.  ? Support software development teams and associated proprietary software infrastructure and code management / deployment tools.  ? Develop customized CI/CD pipeline solutions for container-based application infrastructure  ? Monitor Cloud Infrastructure on AWS VPC    Environment: EC2 and AWS Amazon Cloud services (CloudFormation, RDS, VPCs, EBS, APIs, EC2 instance Auto Scaling, S3, CloudWatch) Unix/Linux, Windows, Python, Java, Jenkins, Azure, Docker, Active Directory, Agile, Amazon Web Services, RHEL, OpenShift, Kubernetes, Shell script, Data Storage Fundamentals, Security Foundation, Networking, Puppet Master, ServiceNow, Bash script. Linux Systems Administrator Sevatec - Fairfax, VA August 2015 to July 2017 Manage and configure Linux and Windows server environment.  ? monitor and maintain Red Hat Enterprise Linux [RHEL] and Windows 2012 Servers.  ? Implement Active Directory/Local Group, and RHEL specific security services to enforce security requirements and standards.  ? Patch and update Linux/Windows OS, middleware and applications including SharePoint, Adobe Connect, Exchange, Mattermost, Oracle Identity Management Suite  ? Ensure sound backup and recovery of HSIN servers using NetBackup  ? Automate tasks to improve efficiency.  ? Create and maintain environment documentation  ? Deploy and maintain third party software on Windows Servers  ? Provide Tier 2 and Tier 3 support in the resolution of technical issues from users  ? Coordinate with team members and other service support groups to effectively resolve  ? incidents and requests  ? Configure and update Local Area Network [LAN] devices  ? Assist in patch management and version control, including the preparation of documents for Change Control Board approvals.  ? Assist customers (as needed) in regards to troubleshooting / imaging systems.  ? Work alongside government lead to perform various tasks on projects / preparing for upcoming projects.  ? Perform weekly tasks assigned on a rotating weekly schedule on a team basis.  ? Provide weekly reports on tasks and duties performed to task lead.    Environment: Centos, Ubuntu, Red Hat Enterprise Linux Web Servers, FTP, Apache load balancing, Shell Scripting, BASH Scripting, Red Hat Linux Kick start and Pxe installations, RAID'S, Disk Management, User and Group Administration VMware, ESXi, vCenter, SAN. Rockville MD Junior Linux Administrator Dept. of Homeland Security - Rockville, MD January 2013 to August 2015 January 2013 - August 2015    ? Worked as Red Hat Linux/Unix System Administrator Handling 48 virtual servers  ? Day to Day activities included handling Security issues like account Cleanups, 90-day password changes, setting max age and min age, creating a list of unmask permission for various users.  ? Write Bash scripts to automate day to day activities creating Disk space.  ? Used command line and advanced commands options in Red Hat Linux. The work also included updating patches in all the Linux servers and doing Performance Tuning. Also, used various tools to monitor the server's health in a production environment.  ? Performed system-monitoring with the help of tools like Nagios, VmStat, Netstat,    Environment: VMware, RHEL, RedHat linux Kickstart and Pxe installation, BASH Scripting, Disk Management, TCP/IP, wireless technologies, DNS, DHCP, VmStat Education Information Technology Lincoln Tech College August 2012