Research Assistant Research Assistant Self-Employed - Self-Employed Seattle, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Research Assistant Cognition and Usability Laboratory, University of Idaho - Moscow, ID 2015 to 2017 • (Fall 2015 to Spring 2017) Worked alongside Dr. Werner on research into password entry methods for graphical passwords.  • (Summer 2017) Worked with Thomas Ulrich and Idaho National Laboratory on tools and methods for evaluation of nuclear power plant control room designs.  • Responsibilities included:  ? Designing and documenting test apparatus, prototypes, and procedures.  ? Programming (Java/Swing and C#/WPF) and testing of test apparatus.  ? Recruiting participants, managing trial appointments, running trials.  ? Collecting/securing data in compliance with FERPA and University guidelines.  ? Statistical analysis.  ? Literature review.  • Resulting publication: Server Systems Operations Technician University of Idaho - Moscow, ID July 2013 to August 2015 • Independently managed $250,000 infrastructure project as Operations Team's infrastructure expert.  • Supervised a single intern.  • Worked with other members of Operations Team to support Systems Team.  Duties in this capacity included:  ? Research, purchase, and installation of new server hardware and infrastructure.  ? Analyzing server trend data and creating daily reports.  ? Creating and maintaining technical documentation.  ? Creating and maintaining service procedures.  ? Performing yearly inventory audits.  ? Building and decommissioning servers.  ? Ordering and renewing SSL certificates.  ? Ordering and replacing parts for server upgrades and repairs.  ? Patching and firmware updates. Systems Administrator Intern Clearwater Paper Corporation - Lewiston, ID June 2009 to December 2010 Education Master of Science in Experimental Psychology University of Idaho - Moscow, ID 2018 Bachelor of Science in Psychology University of Idaho - Lewiston, ID 2016 Associate in Information Systems Analysis Lewis-Clark State College - Lewiston, ID May 2010 Skills Bash (2 years), C# (2 years), C (Less than 1 year), Chef (1 year), Excel (10+ years), Gnu (Less than 1 year), Html. (1 year), Java (3 years), Linux (3 years), Linux/unix (3 years), Microsoft office (10+ years), Ms office (10+ years), Powerpoint (10+ years), Prototype (2 years), prototypes (2 years), Python (4 years), Windows presentation foundation (2 years), Wpf (2 years), UX, User Experience, Usability, User Research, HCI, Research (2 years), Human Factors (2 years), Ux Research (2 years) Links http://masingale.portfoliobox.net http://www.linkedin.com/in/marshall-masingale Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ 2010 to Present Groups University of Idaho Human Factors and Ergonomics Society Student Chapter September 2016 to May 2018 Publications Password entry times for recognition-based graphical passwords. 2016-09 Werner, S., Hauck, C., & Masingale, M. (2016, September). Password entry times for recognition-based graphical passwords. In Proceedings of the human factors and ergonomics society annual meeting (Vol. 60, No. 1, pp. 755-759). Sage CA: Los Angeles, CA: SAGE Publications. Additional Information Skills  I am more than proficient in PowerPoint and have used it to educate classmates and coworkers in skills I have obtained and have been using it since grade school for regular presentations. I have used Excel extensively to format and analyze data, including using the statistics package. I have also worked with various scripts to clean and format Excel data.    My master's coursework included Human-Computer Interaction, Sensation and Perception, Statistics, Ergonomics, Engineering Psychology, and Advanced Research Methods, with a focus on qualitative/quantitative research methods and user-centered design. My coursework included a brief overview of the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines, many other design guidelines and best practices, with an emphasis on universal and inclusive design. I have used multiple methods of task analyses, including GOMS, for multiple projects including workplace evaluations for a restaurant drive-through window and for a power tool station.    I have used Java/Swing, C#/WPF, and PowerPoint to create prototypes for multiple projects for mobile, tablet, and desktop. I've used SurveyMonkey and Amazon Mechanical Turk to create surveys and collect data to aid in the creation of these prototypes and create personas.    Through my Computer Science coursework, I have familiarity with Agile and Waterfall. I am Comptia Security+ certified and have successfully completed training in SQL, Redhat Enterprise Admin II, Chef, and PowerShell.    Tools  Microsoft Office products including PowerPoint and Excel.  SPSS, R, JASP, and Excel (statistics tools).  Flex, Lex, GNU Bison, regex  Java, C#, Python, C++, BASH script, PowerShell, and HTML.  Linux/Unix and Windows. (Servers and workstations.)  Survey Monkey, Mechanical Turk