Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer - Epitome Networks Ruther Glen, VA IT Professional with 15 years in the industry with interests in new challenges, roles, and responsibilities; Process driven, pays close attention to detail and able to identify and focus on what solution will work for what specific business need. Ability to lead and equally contribute in a team setting or self-motivate to perform tasks when working alone. Work Experience Systems Engineer Epitome Networks April 2015 to Present * Provide professional managed services for various industry clients including on premises both physical and virtualized as well as cloud hosted environments  * Maximizing network performance by monitoring and troubleshooting network problems and outages and building an accurate analysis of findings to apply to effective improvement strategies  * Install, configure, perform upgrades, and repair on server systems and storage subsystems. Including HP and EMC storage arrays and Synology and QNAP NAS appliances  * Perform compliance checks to ensure clients were in best position to be protected from security breaches and network intrusions  * Work with management in prioritization processes and make recommendations to improve system and work flow  * Provide project management oversight for infrastructure projects or work closely with Project Management to complete projects or project-related tasks.  * Coordinate and assist vendors with implementations or upgrades to respective solutions. IT Specialist/ Systems Administrator McGeorge Toyota - Richmond, VA June 2012 to April 2015 • Provide IT Support for entire IT Infrastructure including backend servers, network, email, and application support in high volumes in a highly time sensitive environment.  • Specialized in the design, building, and maintenance of a backend Unix/Linux Environment that were responsible for domain controller services, database, and email.  • Manage backup protocols, ensure backups run and complete.  • Configure/Troubleshoot TCP IP, LAN, WAN, DHCP, DNS, Firewall, network security and other network protocols.  • Met/Coordinated with vendors. (Ex. Dell for Storage Area Network Hardware demonstration; ADP for a proposal for additional services such as payroll, employee attendance records, and hardware replacements.)  • Assisted in the selection and purchases of equipment for hardware replacement/upgrades (Personal computers/laptops, mobile phones, network equipment replacements)  • Provided Digital Phone System Support for End User including Setups for extensions, SIP trunks, Hunt groups, Voicemail, and Device Management.  • Documented policies and procedures for day to day processes and fixes such as application errors, new user profile set ups, permission assignments and various other IT related processes.  • Provide manager with strategies to improve workflow, stream-line processes; coordinate large-scale assigned projects    Virtualization and Storage Administration Experience:  Virtual Platforms Supported: Vmware ESXI 4 - 6.7, Citrix XenServer, Microsoft Hyper-V  Monitor, manage, and maintain, physical hardware for virtualized server environments; build virtual machines, performed migrations, upgrades, audits, and troubleshoot issues for production and test environments; Worked to implement solid strategies to ensure high availability for customers;    Storage Hardware Solutions Supported - HPE Systems, Synology, QNAP, EMC  Plan, architect and implement solutions for production storage environments; Create storage volumes, allocate appropriate resources, and configure network storage properties for optimal I/O performance;  Day to day administration tasks including I/O analysis, hardware health checks, and system monitoring.  Support company backup infrastructure - troubleshoot failed jobs as needed, disk usage, data retention and restores; Education High school or equivalent Skills System Administrator, Vmware, SCCM, Active Directory Certifications/Licenses VCP6-DCV November 2018 to Present Vmware Certified Professional - Data Center Virtulization 6.5 CCA-V December 2018 to December 2021 Citrix Certified Administrator - Virtualization CCP-M July 2016 to July 2019 Citrix Certified Professional - Endpoint Management