Lead IT Administrator Lead IT <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Lead IT Administrator Shelby Twp, MI Honest, confident and hardworking leader. Poised to leverage education and experience toward a successful  career in Information Technology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead IT Administrator Centroid Systems - Troy, MI 2018 to 2019 * Currently handles various internal projects as well as all of the IT administration needs of external clients.    * Work with ServiceNow and Request Tracker ticketing systems to respond to open trouble ticket requests  from both internal employees and external clients on a daily basis.    * Does extensive data center maintenance work which includes configuring, upgrading and maintaining  servers, switches and various firewalls.    * In charge of on boarding and off boarding all new employees and new clients with Active Directory.    * Setup, build, repair and troubleshoot laptops, workstations, servers with Windows, Mac and Linux OS.    * Was the company administrator of Active Directory, Exchange, Office 365, Sharepoint, Skype, and Jira.  Supported them all internally and externally depending on clients needs.    * Monitor and maintain the network health of all internal branches including a location in Dallas and India  from our local data center locations.    * Create and allocate disk space and memory on Virtual workspaces including VM's on VM Workstation, Virtual Box, VMware Fusion for Mac and VMware vSphere.    * Administrator of all phone systems within the company including Nextiva, Mitel IP Phones and mobile  phones. IT Technician/ Network Administrator W&P Management - Utica, MI 2017 to 2018 Serviced all of the IT network administration needs of companies such as Weingartz, PED and Ball  Equipment.    * Worked with IssueTrak Ticketing system to fulfill user's IT needs on daily basis.    * Create Hyper-V VM's on each of our server's when required. Currently monitoring over 30 credit card  machines that are using a CenPos software to run on each of these Hyper-V VM's.    * Monitored the network connection for all branches and make sure we stay up and running. Make sure we  failover to another ISP so users experience no downtime.  * Drive to all other locations when absolutely necessary when outages occur or to install new network switches  as needed. Data Systems Analyst/IT Helpdesk E&R Industrial/Grainger - Sterling Heights, MI 2013 to 2016 I was required to wear multiple hats on the job. What started as a help desk position led to many others. I was  the face of the IT department as all issues come through me first.    * I worked with a ticket system on a daily basis, which was located on a local intranet, problem solving  challenging cases for users within the 10 branches I oversaw.    * Set up new users during onboarding and get them set up with a laptop or PC and the ability to log in to the VPN when off-site. Also set up email on exchange server, give proper access to public folders, and manage  the correct permissions.    * I was able to accomplish an entire copier fleet refresh for all of our 10 different branches. This included  switching over the IP addresses of all copiers to the new and current ones and installing global scan on each.    * Maintained the health of the servers in the server room. Education Computer Science Macomb Community College - Clinton Township, MI 2015 to Present diploma in general studies Utica High School - Utica, MI 2002 to 2006 Skills Active directory, Exchange, Firewalls, Virtual server, Citrix