System Administrator <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator - Premier Health Consultants Columbus, OH Seasoned System Administrator with 8 year background in Information Technology within the Healthcare sector. Progressive experience in the field marked by continuous contributions above and beyond requirements. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Administrator Premier Health Consultants - Baton Rouge, LA May 2013 to Present Installed, configured, and supported local area network (LAN), wide area  network (WAN) and Internet system.  • Configured, tested and maintained network equipment across multiple vendors  to achieve High Availability and Scalability.  • Assigned application access, security roles and permissions.  • Automated common User and Computer creation tasks through the use of PowerShell scripting.  • Participated in on-call rotations during holidays, weekends and overnights to handle emergency network situations.  • Standardized job tasks and trained junior team members on industry best  practices and standards.  • Prepared productivity reports for IT director. Analyst TDC - Baton Rouge, LA November 2012 to May 2013 Configured hardware, devices and software to set up work stations for    employees.  • Disassembled computers to perform diagnostics and check for repair needs.  • Data Retention  • Pack/Ship Systems Support Analyst Amedisys - Baton Rouge, LA November 2011 to November 2012 • Provided Tier 1 IT support to non-technical internal user personnel via email, phone, website live chat and in forums.  • Managed high levels of call flow.  • Used in-house ticketing system to manage and process support actions and requests.  • Led internal product training for support team, end-users and new employees. Education Associate of Arts in Computer Networking ITT Technical Institute - Baton Rouge, LA June 2009 to June 2011 Skills Active Directory, System Administrator, System Admin, Customer Service, Technical Support, Windows, Networking Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching July 2019 to July 2022 Security+ October 2012 to October 2015 Network+ August 2010 to August 2013 Additional Information Skills  Network development and administration  Excellent  Infrastructure planning  Excellent  Technical writing  Excellent  Project management  Very Good