Control Systems Security Analyst Control <span class="hl">Systems</span> Security Analyst Control Systems Security Analyst - CenterPoint Energy Inc Houston, TX To obtain a full-time role in a company that requires software automation/development duties and to utilize and enhance my existing background as an IT professional. Work Experience Control Systems Security Analyst CenterPoint Energy Inc - Houston, TX November 2014 to Present Accomplishments  ? Modified open-source PowerShell tools in order to automate deployment of security enhancements across hundreds of systems while maximizing uptime.  ? Delivered and documented a scalable monitoring solution by utilizing and developing custom PowerShell scripts/Group-Policy to automate configuration of Zabbix monitoring clients upon system admission into a given Active Directory Environment.  ? Presented and piloted a new tool called E.L.K Stack and configured, documented, and created custom data visualizations that provided the Company with enhanced visibility of coalesced SYSLOG data. The successful implementation motivated several teams across the department to utilize E.L.K for their specific use cases.  ? Created and integrated custom python programs with ansible-playbooks to enforce consistent configuration of homogenous systems across the environment.    Duties  ? Maintain a mindset of striving for proper balance of delivering effective customer satisfaction with proper security restrictions.  ? Employ security policy via mechanisms such as Group Policy, Host-Based firewall, or Network-based firewalls.  ? Utilize programming languages to manage Linux and Windows Systems services such as NTP, SSH, Host-Firewalls, and provision user accounts.  ? Heavily utilize the TCP/IP model to educate customers during the navigation process of network access control mechanisms. System Administrator Los Alamos National Laboratory - Los Alamos, NM October 2012 to August 2013 Demonstrated adaptability and problem-solving skills by fabricating a software script with unfamiliar computer languages using prior knowledge of a C++.  ? Ambitiously accepted and completed a task that required to replace video drivers on a Linux-based platform without prior training. Education Masters of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Georgia Institute of Technology May 2020 Bachelors of Science in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Prairie View A&M University May 2012 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Linux, C#, Git, Python, Java, Checkpoint Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS OPERATING SYSTEMS  C/C# - familiar Java - proficient Windows - proficient  Python - proficient PowerShell - proficient Linux - proficient    TOOLS  Git, Microsoft Active Directory, ELK Stack, WSUS, Zabbix Monitoring, Ansible, Checkpoint, Cisco