VCLOUD AIR DATA CENTER CLOUD ENGINEER VCLOUD AIR DATA CENTER CLOUD ENGINEER VCLOUD AIR DATA CENTER CLOUD ENGINEER San Jose, CA 10 years of experience with management, diagnosis, and refinement of enterprise servers.  Immersed in fast-paced environments that require quick problem-solving & creative resolution skills.  Searching for a passionate and collaborative team to work with and gain knowledge on new products.  Fluid with Windows, Linux, EMC Storage, NetApp Storage, data center logistics and cloud services. Work Experience VCLOUD AIR DATA CENTER CLOUD ENGINEER VMWARE July 2013 to October 2018 • Managed, repaired and expanded VMware vCloud Air data centers, servers, switches, and storage appliances.  • Deployed VMware vSAN, vSphere, vCenter Server and NSX on production environments.   • Assisted NOC, Order Management and OSS teams with diagnostics and project management.   • Constructed virtual test bed platforms to stress test physical hardware and virtual infrastructure.  • Designed and deployed Windows and Linux test bed platforms to optimize cloud environments.   • Documented untested products while laying foundation for future courses and best practices.   • VMware Certified Data Center Virtualization.   • VMware Certified Associate. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR CISCO April 2012 to July 2013 • Automated internal development virtual machines and testing environments.  • Supported multiple internal groups across multiple data center buildings.  • Cooperated with multiple internal groups to maintain testbed platforms.  • Stress-tested storage appliances in various configurations to find optimum throughput.  • Installed and upgraded VMware ESXi and vCenter deployments.  • Deployed back-end network for monitoring infrastructure hardware.  • Maintained NetApp and EMC storage systems. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR NETAPP December 2009 to April 2012 • Coordinated multiple hardware data center upgrades for critical software testing.   • Collaborated with teams in aiding engineers, developers and users with data center tasks.   • Aided users to transition from Kayako ticketing system to an internally created ticketing system.   • Planned and executed multiple data center lab relocations, on campus.  • Repaired physical and virtual infrastructure to ensure maximum uptime.  • Deployed, tested and diagnosed Windows and Linux virtual machines for internal testing and development.  • Designed and created NFS, iSCSI and FC infrastructure for internal testing and performance optimization.  • Planned and executed data center moves with internal teams while maintaining active test environments. Engineering IT Lab Administrator Decru - Redwood City, CA April 2008 to January 2009 • Managed contractors to execute data center relocation from Decru to NetApp campus.  • Deployed switches, terminal servers and PDUs at the new lab.  • Interacted with internal business units for for a seamless transition during the move.  • Converted hundreds of physical machines into virtual machines using VMware P2V.  • Integrated Force10 network switches into existing Cisco infrastructure.  • Established new back-bone SAN / NAS data store for local builds and user directories.  • Administrated new data center infrastructure to identify and correct any issues from the relocation Education AUTOMOTIVE DIAGNOSTICS & REPAIR NEW RIVER COMMUNITY COLLEGE 2005 High school or equivalent in G.E.D. Forsyth Technical Community College - Winston-Salem, NC 2003 Skills Data Center, Linux, Hardware, Datacenter, Cabling, Network Administration (10+ years), System Administration (10+ years), Database Administration (6 years), Mechanic (10+ years), Shipping And Receiving (5 years), Vmware (10+ years), Windows (10+ years), HVAC (4 years), Stacking, NOC, Ethernet Links http://www.LinkedIn.com/In/AlexisRoquemore Certifications/Licenses VMware Certified Associate - Cloud November 2013 Pearson VUE VMware Certified Associate - Data Center Virtualization November 2013 Pearson VUE Assessments Technical Support — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/pf-gk-cbhxxkhsm Proficiency with Microsoft Office: Mail & Calendar (Mac) — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate’s proficiency in using Microsoft Office Mail and Calendar tools to manage their workload. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/pecmqw8aqp-jurdt Vehicle Maintenance — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of general vehicle maintenance inspections to complete minor repairs. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/0z1hb8ikpzo9j570 Customer Focus & Orientation — Expert August 2019 Responding to customer situations with sensitivity. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ssucpbcib7-jylbn Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.