Systems Administrator Contractor <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Contractor Systems Administrator Contractor - Perspecta San Diego, CA Work Experience Systems Administrator Contractor Perspecta - San Diego, CA November 2018 to Present • Support Dev Ops engineers, primary role is windows/Linux server provisioning thru vSphere, Acas scan remediation, Server migration, Operating Systems used are windows server 2008, 2012, and 2016 and red hat 6.9.  • Familiar with automating the provisioning, configuration, deployment of Virtual server instances using Amazon Ec2.  • Troubleshooting and managing servers in a DISA Navy virtual infrastructure.  • Deploy, configure and patch Linux Red Hat for test and development, and troubleshoot database issues. Systems Administrator Contractor SPAWAR Navy - San Diego, CA May 2017 to November 2017 • Windows System Administration support for a Research, Development, supporting a US Government Customer.  • Primarily responsible for customer service, providing patching desktops.  • Demonstrated proficiency in deploying, maintaining, and troubleshooting Windows Server systems, and workstations for navy  • Worked with PowerShell built in libraries to minimize repetition during builds. Systems Administrator Contractor Hewlett Packard Enterprise - San Diego, CA March 2017 to May 2017 • Server support, PST and file NAS restores for San Diego County employees, using HP data protector software, and HP server automation tool.  • Servers build outs thru VMware, and patch/software updates using HP server tools.  • Worked with San Diego County customers to help resolve various issues thru service manager ticketing system.  • Worked with PowerShell built in libraries to minimize repetition. Systems Administrator contractor Hewlett Packard Enterprise - San Diego, CA June 2016 to March 2017 • Server builds using VMware and patch/software updates using HP server tools.  • Worked with Engineer and DBA's to help resolve server issues.  • Server builds implemented using Security Technical Implementation Guide (STIG) Systems Administrator Contractor Solar Turbines - San Diego, CA July 2014 to March 2016 • Server maintenance and infrastructure systems analyst.  • Created, and managed LAN login accounts using Active Directory.  • Troubleshooting various infrastructure and network related issues for internal employees.  • Documenting and updating standards/policies/procedures.  • Worked with development team to provide recommendations for server enhancement.  • Remedy help desk ticket manager, server maintenance, active directory permissions setup, and user account migrations, VMware, UNIX account setup and permissions. Desktop Support Technician Contractor University of California - San Diego, CA July 2013 to January 2014 • Network support for UCSD campus employees, assist students and faculty with Windows Land accounts.  • Systems administrator duties included: Imaging laptop's, managing Microsoft Servers, and campus network support.  • Configuration and Support for remote connectivity to Cisco VPN tunnel  • Setting up Active Directory login accounts, permissions, and distribution groups. Information Systems Technical Specialist University of St. Augustine - San Marcos, CA May 2011 to July 2013 Support informational technology needs of the University's campus in San Marcos, CA. Assured seamless operation of telecommunications, desktop and software functions, database client assistance and video conferencing production services. Manage active directory and new user accounts/permissions Active Directory Specialist Contractor Computer Science Corporation - San Diego, CA July 2010 to November 2010 • Remotely supported end users with PC/LAN/WAN problem resolution and application support.  • Monitored, maintained and applied client service packs, updates and application requirements as far as hardware, processing and memory.  • Responsible for new user setup in Active Directory, Exchange and various other software's and applications.  • Documented procedures for all network administration, applications, hardware and processes.  • Created email and LAN user accounts on Active Directory database for health care associations. Support Desk Analyst III Hewlett Packard Enterprise - San Diego, CA April 2008 to June 2010 • Help desk support for Navy Marine Corporate Intranet.  • Contacted Network Operations center to announce outages, and user support for various computer issues and applications.  • Documented troubleshooting via Remedy help desk system and SLA to maintain quality of service.  • Experience working with DOD top secret classified environment. Education Bachelors in Fine Arts University of Arts - Philadelphia, PA Skills powershell (2 years) Additional Information • Linux and Windows systems administrator.  • Familiar with PowerShell and Ansible scripting.  • Infrastructure support for large enterprise sized environments.  • AWS Amazon, VSphere, Active Directory, DNS, GPO, TCP.  • Excellent problem solving skills working with engineering teams on various projects.  • SQL server database configurations builds.