Linux Systems Administrator Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Linux Systems Administrator - NETE Work Experience Linux Systems Administrator NETE March 2019 to Present Experience working in AWS cloud platform - Configuring of datacenter, server decommissioning, CloudTrail and Cloudwatch configuration, Data migration, IAM and AMI creation, AWS RDS MySQL configuration, EFS configuration.  ? Perform installation, maintenance, and upgrades of Atlassian Tools such - Jira, Confluence, GitHub, and Splunk.  ? Perform system monitoring using NewRelic and do bi-weekly maintenance.  ? Experience configuring datacenter in AWS cloud for performance and high availability of infrastructure, and reviewing of application logs.  ? Researched and recommended innovative and automated approaches for system administration  ? Support, maintain, and troubleshoot production issues or alerts.  ? Create and administrate user and manage service accounts.  ? Work with Atlassian Support team and/or Atlassian Add-on marketplace team members to resolve any security issues, upgrades or any other types of issues  ? Monitor all issues and escalate issue to appropriate teams or coordinate to ensure effective resolution  ? Ensure compliance with security regulations of client environments.  ? Document and revised standard procedures in Confluence  ? Experience Managing Tier II and Tier III ticket escalations and perform on-call duties as needed.  ? POC for the Cyber Security and Infrastructure team. Linus Systems Administrator NETE March 2019 to Present Linux Systems Administrator 9-Solutions October 2016 to March 2019 Administration of RHEL versions 6 and 7 which includes installation, testing, tuning, upgrading, loading patches, troubleshooting both physical and virtual servers.  ? Administration of EC2 instances and working knowledge of other AWS resources; IAM, S3, Glacier, ELB & Auto Scaling, SNS, VPC, Security Group, AMI, NAT Gateway, CloudFormation, CloudWatch.  ? Installation and configuration of Apache, and support on Linux servers.  ? Installation and configuration of Ansible for configuration management  ? Installation and configuration of Jenkins for Continuous build, test and deployment  ? User account management; adding, deleting, updating user account information and resetting passwords.  ? Configuration of firewall rules as needed using iptables and firewalld  ? Perform file system management, system troubleshooting and understanding of TCP/IP  ? Secure file transfers across varied platforms and servers with NFS, SCP and sFTP, Samba  ? Managing system jobs scheduling utilizing cron  ? Backup and restore using native tools like tar, dump and RSYNC as per SLA  ? Monitoring system activities like CPU, memory, Network to avoid any performance issues.  ? Remote system administration using tools like SSH and Managing of system log files  ? System performance tuning and storage optimization utilizing using NAS -FreeNAS to allocate iSCSI LUNS.  ? Experience with storage management utilizing LVM and LVM RAIDS  ? Writing of basic bash scripts for automation of tasks.  ? Working knowledge of Docker for containerization  ? Experience as a training consultant on AWS technologies  ? Installation and configuration of open source web application services; Apache, Tomcat Linus Systems Administrator 9-Solutions October 2016 to March 2019 Linux Systems Administrator Trinitech Consulting May 2013 to September 2016 Administration of AWS cloud instances -EC2, configuring IAM, ELB & Auto Scaling, VPC and experience with other AWS resources; S3, AMI, CloudWatch, SNS, Route53.  ? Configured and managed disk space and LVM on Red Hat and CentOS using tools native tools.  ? Monitored and check the performance and functionality of the operating system.  ? Apache installation and performed Hardware maintenance.  ? Scheduled backup of files and Directories to ensure all required file systems are in place with native tools like tar, cpio and dump.  ? Daily check of error messages with resolution and timely responding of emails  ? Performed routine checks on the Red Hat Linux servers of the company.  ? Participated in building of Linux servers to transition all medical records to electronic system.  ? Provided 24x7 System Administration support for Red Hat Linux servers and resolved troubled tickets.  ? Training of junior admins; RedHat, AWS.  ? Performed security checks and management of filesystems and directories.  ? Performed User's account management.  ? Monitored servers and Linux scripts regularly and perform troubleshooting.  ? Troubleshooting deployment, services errors and installation issues. Linus Systems Administrator Trinitech Consulting March 2013 to September 2016 Education BA in Busiess Administration Fresno Pacific University 2013 Skills Apache, Nagios, Splunk, Docker, Jenkins, Account management Additional Information Relevant Technical Skills:  • Atlassian application updates, AWS -IAM, AMI, Datacenter configuration and management, CloudTrain and cloudwatch, log monitoring using splunk, Docker for containarization, Ansible, Apache, Nagios, Github, Jenkins, systems trouble shooting, applicationa management, system monitoring, user account management, patch management.