Executive Director Executive Director Community Building Young Professional Spencer, IA I am a highly creative individual with extensive experience in a variety of community building activities. I have a strong motivation to learn and can apply techniques quickly and effectively. My experience with customer service has developed me into a dynamic, goal-oriented, motivated individual. I am extremely organized and pride myself on bringing a personal touch to the skills I acquire to perform my best and strive for collaboration in all my endeavors. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Executive Director Grand Avenue Community Outreach - Spencer, IA January 2019 to Present I was tasked with taking this relatively new non-profit organization and elevating it to the level it operates at today as well as setting it up to succeed into the future. Main goals were strategic planning, cost efficiency, and increased communication within the community of Spencer and beyond. This gave me unprecedented experience with directing several moving parts within a non-profit; including budgeting, promotions, personnel management, and relationship building between several different organizations. Business Development Advanced Network Professionals - Spencer, IA August 2017 to January 2019 ANP is a full-service technology partner offering a tailored approach to technical consulting, managed IT services, and cloud based solutions. My task was to work with a team of highly skilled entrepreneurs on the creation of this company designed to fill a gap within the community. During my tenure, we were able to get these services in the hands of several businesses throughout the Iowa Lakes Corridor - which allowed me to build relationships in the professional community as well as the community of Chamber of Commerce executives throughout Northwest Iowa. Systems Administrator Solutions, Inc. - Spencer, IA January 2013 to June 2017 Solutions is a technology provider for city and county government offices across the state of Iowa, and my job was to ensure that our clients consistently had functionality throughout their systems. All while being cognizant of the fact that we were working within their budget that consists entirely of tax-payer dollars. This taught me how to be fiscally responsible in addition to various advanced uses of hardware and software - including QuickBooks and the entire suite of Microsoft Office products. Education Associate in Multiple Degrees Related to Technology Kirkwood Community College - Cedar Rapids, IA August 2004 to May 2009 Skills Strategic Planning, Budgeting, Microsoft Office, Training & Development, Customer Service, Community Relations, Communications, Marketing Groups Spencer RAGBRAI Executive Co-Chair Clay County Law Enforcement Appreciation committee Clay County Firefighter Appreciation committee Clay County Historical Society Clay County Convention & Visitors Bureau Spencer Jaycees Spencer Rotary Spencer Young Professionals Spencer Chamber of Commerce Future Ready Iowa Various focus groups and advisory roles throughout the Iowa Lakes Corridor