Lead Product Support Analyst L3 Lead Product Support Analyst L3 Lead Product Support Analyst L3 - AAA Orlando, FL Work Experience Lead Product Support Analyst L3 AAA - Orlando, FL May 2019 to Present • Make deployments in ansible for new products in the department's servers to create test environments.  • Troubleshoot current production software to find errors in communication channels.  • Troubleshoot Linux servers applications in production for all level 3 cases.  • Analyze data stored in Oracle Databases to find possible errors in the applications.  • Reproduce errors in QA to find bugs in the backend of the applications such as Mobile, IVR, APIs, and default configurations.  • Use of JMETER tests cases to measure performance and analyze errors in the android mobile applications. Sr. Software Engineer Inmarsat - Palm Bay, FL June 2017 to February 2019 • QA testing responsibilities include unit, black-box, and end-to-end testing of maritime satellite communications for Internet, VoIP, and media-streaming services and Tier 4 customer support.  • Digital Platform and creation of CI/CD build environment on Jenkins used to test Open vSwitch, Docker containers, KVM-based virtualization, Cisco 5921 ESR, TICK stack including InfluxDB enterprise, and terminal connectivity along with cloud-based orchestration and SA monitoring using Grafana.  • Created a linux command line automation script for the VARs in order to facilitate the testing of different components including end to end more quickly and efficiently.  • Created automation tests for the Global Xpress (GX) Ka-band services with L-band failover (FX) in the Digital Platform as well as validation of services.  • Inmarsat IsatData automated testing using Selenium (Portal) and (API) for regression tests.  • Created automation scripts in pytest to validate data sent from the TICK components in shipside to the shoreside influxdb.  • Created automated tests to trigged different test scenarios in pytest and selenium in order to generate traffic and data for a UTM system installed in a ship.  • Use of Agile methodologies for the software development and Jira for tracking of requirements and tasks. Systems Administrator Miami, FL October 2015 to June 2017 • Design and implement Microsoft Windows Domain Controllers in all work environments with DNS, AD and LDAP.  • Configure DNS and NTP servers in all production and QA environments.  • Centralize Users Authentication between Windows and Linux Servers with LDAP.  • Centralize sudo users and privileges with ACLs based on role and position.  • Implement Rundeck and Puppet to automate processes based on executions and their roles.  • Write puppet module, roles and profiles for the base products.  • Replicate services to a contingency location for disaster recovery and prevention.  • Deploy instances in Amazon EC2 and add the security group based on the role of the server.  • Move data from legacy servers to Amazon s3 buckets using the s3cmd tools.  • Create automation scripts in Bash and Pyhon to Backup Databases and logs.  • Deploy and configure multiple Linux Red Hat and Debian Servers in VMware automatically.  • Organize Ticketing system with Jira for a better Team Work performance.  • Install, Configure and Maintain servers in the data warehouse.  • Troubleshooting Oracle Linux and configure volumes with asm for databases.  • Support and troubleshoot large scale Linux, Unix and windows server environment. Systems Administrator Advantone - Plantation, FL October 2014 to October 2015 • Responsible to Maintain Backup Schedules for all VMs and physical servers using Ghetto Backup and Symantec BE.  • Troubleshoot and Maintain Web servers, IVRs, MySQL servers running CentOS, Debian, and Red Hat.  • Migrate archive servers to Amazon S3 using s3cmd tools and VMware Amazon Plugin.  • Write documentation for the instances in Amazon EC2 using Puppet for faster deployment.  • Add SQL Queries in MySQL Servers to fix call routing, and latency in processes.  • Automate the Log Rotate across Linux Servers to prevent full disk usage.  • Monitor Servers and Network performance with Xymon and Hobbit.  • Manage Windows Servers to use AD to Create Users, Security Groups, computer entries, and DNS records.  • Troubleshoot Windows Web Servers via ISS and Services when the websites are not working properly.  • Manage O365 Admin, SharePoint and OneDrive.  • Implement new technology projects for the company such as MyConnectionServer, Palladion, OCS Inventory NG. Systems Administrator Newlink Group - Miami, FL January 2014 to October 2014 • Responsible for troubleshooting software and hardware problems for the local office and remote locations.  • Answer, evaluate, and prioritize incoming telephone, voice mail, e-mail, and in-person requests for assistance from end-users experiencing problems with hardware, software, networking, and other computer-related technologies  • Create user accounts, e-mail accounts and manage distribution groups and security groups using Active Directory.  • Manage users and folders permissions in the share library.  • Implement Spiceworks in different offices to manage the inventory.  • Design the new Intralink and company's directory using the Sharepoint for Office 365.  • Create instances using AWS EC2 to migrate physical servers.  • Install and Configure CentOS Distributions 5.X / 6.X for Proftpd, Samba and lamp servers.  • Implementation of Asterisk PBX and VOIP and SIP trunk Setup/Configuration for the company's phones.  • Provide second level support for Microsoft, Linux and Mac computers and all related applications. Systems Administrator Digital Latin America - Coral Springs, FL October 2011 to December 2013 • Configure Linux Debian and Red Hat servers and provide support to Latin America clients in order to guaranteed delivery of content.  • Provides Technical Support to company's users and international users.  • Install and deploy desktops servers with VMware using vSphere and Vcenter Converter Standalone Client to migrate production machines.  • Install and configure Cisco Phones using the Cisco Unified Communications Manager.  • Create users accounts and access rights to multiple storage units for new employees.  • Write and execute security policies based on ITIL and SANS guidelines.  • Configure and monitoring security policies in the Fortinet Firewall.  • Install, configure, and maintain blade servers using the Cisco UCS Manager.  • Implement a Workflow System to optimize the information requests between departments using Joomla.  • In charge of installing new software applications, and deployment of new technology solutions. Including but not limited to Moves/adds/changes PCs/peripherals, etc.  • Responsible for buying new PCs, servers, printers, software, cisco phones, and other devices. Novus Systems - Lauderhill, FL October 2011 to October 2011 • Supported and maintain Windows and Linux servers and network infrastructure.  • Executed OS Upgrades, configuration management, troubleshooting, performance analysis, disaster recovery planning and documentation for the clients.  • Designed, installs and supports organization's LAN WAN network segments, Internet & Intranet systems.  • Create user accounts, backup data, and raid configuration for large storage units.  • Trained users on basic use of hardware and software.  • Identified and removed computer viruses.  • Installed and configured of security cameras. Education B.S. in Information Engineering Technology Florida Atlantic University 2015 Neuroscience and Brain Computer Interfaces University of Tübingen - Tübingen, DE June 2011 A.S. in Computer Programming Palm Beach State College 2010 Skills MySQL, Android