Unix/Linux Systems Engineer Unix/Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Unix/Linux Systems Engineer - Century Link Denver, CO • Over 6+ years of experience in administration/architecture of Linux/Solaris Operating Systems in Standalone, Clustered environments.  • Experience in installation, configuration, and maintenance of RHEL 5/6/7, SuSE 10/11/12, Solaris 10/11.  • Strong knowledge on Linux, Automation Tools like Puppet and Ansible.  • Installed Solaris using Jumpstart and Linux using Kickstart.  • Experience in administering Linux running on VMware ESX 3.5, vSphere 4.0.  • Worked on Solaris Zones and LDOMs running on Solaris 10/11.  • Experience in Installing Firmware Upgrades, kernel patches, systems configuration, and performance tuning on UNIX/Linux systems.  • Extensively worked on setting up Exadata racks.  • Experience with VERITAS Volume Manager (VxVM), VERITAS File System (VxFS), VERITAS Net Backup, and VERITAS Cluster Server.  • Responsible for setting up and configuring dockers on AWS/OCI.  • Demonstrated knowledge of multi-cloud platforms (AWS, OCI, etc) to be able to identify and prioritize potential security challenges.  • Leveraging OCI and Ansible to rapidly provision internal computer systems for various clients.  • Experience in configuration of NIS, NIS+, DNS, DHCP, NFS, LDAP, SFTP  • Experience on Webservers such as Tomcat 3.x, 4.x, 5.x & Apache Server 1.x, 2.x and integrating them with Web logic 10.x servers.  • Experience in development and configuration experience with software provisioning tools like Puppet and Ansible.  • Experienced in clustering load-balancing techniques to ensure HA.  • Experience on OpenStack infrastructure to enable the continue innovation.  • Experience on Zabbix of monitors the servers and applications.  • Strong understanding of infrastructure automation tooling using Ansible.  • Expertise in scripting for automation and monitoring using Bash and Perl scripts.  • Worked with Database and Middleware administrators to tune kernel parameters.  • Installation and configuration of Web logic, Jboss, and Web Sphere 5.1/6.0 Application Server on Solaris and Linux boxes.  • Provided support for applications and developers team with JAVA and JavaScript background as an admin/support.  • Experience on CFEngine infrastructure automation and continuous operation.  • Experience in installing Veritas, Installing and configuring the Veritas Cluster Server (VCS), Veritas HA using Veritas storage administration (VxVM, VSF) for Storage Array Network (SAN) configuration.  • Understanding of Java, JavaScript working environment.  • Prepared documentation for standard operating procedures of various administration tasks.  • Team player with good management, analytical, communication and interpersonal skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Unix/Linux Systems Engineer Century Link - Denver, CO August 2017 to Present Responsibilities/Projects:  • Responsible for design, build, deployment, patching and upgrade of Linux/Solaris servers.  • Design, Build and configuration of RHEL, SuSE and CentOS.  • Responsible for providing 24x7 production support using BMC/Service Now.  • Automated Kickstart images installation, build, patching and configuration of 500+ Enterprise Linux servers on Dell PowerEdge and Sun hardware.  • Performed OS upgrades, migrations on Red-Hat, SuSE and Solaris  • Coordinated with Application developer teams to assist in troubleshooting.  • During production, provided support as an admin for Java and UI developer's teams.  • Primary member of the team to successfully implement SPARC migration from Sun hardware to LDOMs running on Solaris 10 and Solaris 11.  • Migrated applications to the AWS/OCI cloud.  • Developed and managed cloud VMs with AWS EC2  • Conduct systems design, feasibility and cost studies and recommend cost effective cloud solutions such as Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) and AWS.  • Wrote Ansible playbooks to launch OCI, AWS instances and used ansible to manage web applications, configuration files, used mount points and packages.  • Experience with change control management using BMC Remedy tool in handling Work Orders on production systems in a large datacenter environment.  • Used CI/CD tools Jenkins, Git, Jira and docker registry/daemon for configuration management and automation using Ansible.  • Used Kubernetes in the orchestration of the deployment, management and scaling of Docker containers.  • Proficient with containers systems like Container orchestration for instance, Kubernetes, EC2 container service, experience with Terraform, etc.  • Manages and maintained Docker containerization and Docker orchestration using Kubernetes.  • Migrated Linux virtual machines from one vCenter to another using vConverter.  • Responsible for patching large number of Linux/Solaris servers using Satellite.  • Responsible for setting three-node VCS on Linux nodes.  • Experienced working with Veritas Volume Manager (VxVM) and Logical Volume Manager (LVM) on Solaris and Linux operating systems.  • Extensively worked on file systems like EXT2, EXT3, UFS, VxFS, VxDMP, VCFS, OCFS, OCFS2, ASM, and other journaling filesystems.  • Provided web server/ application like Apache, Tomcat, JBoss, Web-Logic, Web-Sphere support on UNIX environment.  • Experience with automating installations, post configurations, developing tools and day-to-day activities using shell scripts like bash and Perl.  • Experienced with working on monitoring tools like Netcool and Zabbix.  • Automated Jumpstart installation, build, configuration and support of 100+ Solaris 9/10 servers on Sun Sparc hardware.  • Installed and configured Solaris 10 zones. Performed Solaris Live Upgrade.  • Installed and configured Red Hat Network Satellite for managing, provisioning and monitoring RHEL 5 servers.  • Configured LVM, NIS, NFS, Web Server, Samba server, DHCP server, NAT, Primary Secondary and cache-only DNS server. Administered mail servers.  • Responsible for setting up 3-node Oracle 10g RAC cluster on RHEL/Solaris  • Experiencing with configuring Net backup on Linux and Solaris boxes.  • Responsible for setting up Development, Stage and Production Oracle10g  • Experience with Kernel upgrades, OCFS, OCFS2 and ASM upgrades from Oracle OTN in regular intervals for Development, Stage and Production Oracle 10g/Linux grid environment.  • Experience with Kernel upgrades from RHN, OCFS, OCFS2 and ASM upgrades from Oracle OTN in regular intervals for Development, Stage and Production Oracle 10g/Linux grid environment.  • Responsible for deploying Oracle database environments on large number of oracle enterprise Linux systems.  • Coordinated with Oracle DBAs on wide range of projects to troubleshoot, performance tuning and optimizing database applications.  • Responsible for setting up ASM disk groups and configure raw devices for database configuration. UNIX/Linux Administrator Visa - Austin, TX November 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities  • Administration of RHEL 5, 6, and 7, which includes installation, testing, tuning, upgrading and loading patches, troubleshooting both physical/virtual servers.  • Creating, cloning Linux Virtual Machines, templates using VMware Virtual Client 3.5 and migrating servers between ESX hosts.  • Responsible for patching and upgrading using Yum.  • Installing RedHat Linux using kickstart and applying security polices for hardening the server based on the company policies.  • Setup and Configuration of Puppet Configuration Management.  • Build and modify CloudFormation stacks.  • Administration, package installation, and configuration of Oracle Enterprise Linux 5 and 6.  • Developed Ansible playbooks to configure, deploy and maintain software components of the existing/new infrastructure.  • Virtualized servers using dockers for test environments.  • Experience in creating Docker containers leveraging existing Linux containers and AMI's in addition to creating Docker Containers from scratch.  • Built and deployed Ci/CD pipelines.  • Orchestrated Ci/CD processes by responding to Git triggers, human input, dependency chain and environment setup.  • Collaborating with Application and Java/UI developer's teams.  • Installed RPM's, patches and upgraded OS kernel versions when necessary.  • Implemented Puppet modules to automate configuration of upgrading the Linux kernel and managing persistent SSH tunnels.  • Installation and up-gradation of the operating system (RHEL, Ubuntu)  • Developed Puppet modules to automate deployment, configuration, and lifecycle management of key clusters.  • Experience working in NFS/NAS, Storage Area Networks (SAN), SSA disk storage environment. Extensively performed SAN Migration.  • Worked in production & application support 24/7 in NAS, EMC SAN Storage.  • Implemented security policy and managed firewalls/IDS. Managed DNS, send mail, IP space, and co-location facility transition.  • Maintained Volumes and File systems for Oracle, MySQL, DB2, databases.  • Applying security patches to RHEL servers using Red Hat Satellite.  • Managing systems routine backup, scheduling jobs using cron, enabling system logging, network logging of servers for maintenance, performance tuning, and testing.  • Performed data-center operations including rack mounting and cabling.  • Tech and non-tech refresh of Linux servers, which includes new hardware, OS, upgrade, application installation, and testing.  • Working on Volume management, Disk Management, software RAID solutions using VERITAS Volume manager and Logical Volume Manager.  • File system Tuning and growing using VERITAS File System (VxFS), coordinated with SAN Team for storage allocation.  • Upgraded firmware on HP, DELL, and IBM blade servers running Linux.  • Configuring multipath, adding SAN and creating physical volumes, volume groups, logical volumes.  • Extensive exposure to Configuration Management policies and practices with regards to SDLC; along with automation of scripting using BASH/Shell, Perl scripting.  • Worked on Zabbix for to integrity of servers, mechanism of flexible notifications for any virtual event and reporting.  • Installing and configuring Apache and supporting them on Linux production servers.  • Worked on SALT configuration management server to update configuration on Linux servers.  • Preparing servers for Oracle RAC installation, which includes tuning the kernel, agent installation, adding NAS storage.  • Monitored server and application performance & tuning via various stat commands (vmstat, nfsstat, iostat, etc) and tuned I/O, memory, etc.  • Experience in adding servers to the domain and monitoring them using Spectrum, Nagios, Check MK, and BMC.  • Documented various system admiration tasks to be used by team.    Environment: RHEL 5, 6, and 7, Solaris 8 and 10, MySQL, VMWare, vSphere, Red Hat, Ubuntu, Satellite, Ansible, Ruby, Bash, Puppet, Dell PowerEdge R710, R720, R820, HP Proliant, Oracle T5220, 5420, T4-1, T5-1, V880, VVM, VCS, VNB, EMC Symmetrix and CLARiiON. UNIX Administrator Pi Datacenters - IN January 2013 to November 2016 Responsibilities  • Installation and administration of RHEL 4, 5, and 6, Solaris 8, 9 and 10, and SUSE 9 and 10.  • Configured kickstart server and applied patches to the servers using Satellite.  • Installation, configuration and administration of VMware, Solaris Zones and LDOMs.  • Installed, configured, cloned VMs on VMware 5, Vsphere 4.0, configured ESX hosts, adding datastores to ESX hosts, creating vswitches, templates, migrating VMs across ESX hosts.  • Responsible for manual patching on RHEL and satellite servers.  • Installed patches and updated them from security enhancement addressing vulnerabilities.  • Running jobs and applying patches using HP Server Automation Tool (HPSA)  • Installed several security packages like SNORT, tcpd, tcp-wrappers & ASSET.  • Created, Implemented and maintained Disaster Recovery Site for File Server using DFS.  • Performed capacity analysis, monitored and controlled disk space usage on systems.  • Monitored system activities and fine tuned system parameters and configurations to optimize performance and ensure security of systems.  • Set up user and group login IDs, network configuration, password, resolving permission issues  • Checking the Logs for errors in the NAS boxes, having knowledge on snap lock volumes, thin provisioning and Fabric switch zoning (Brocade).  • Installation and maintaining the OpenStax hardware and software  • Implemented and Enhanced the Existing Scripts which are developed in BASH, Perl, and SQL.  • Installation and up-gradation of the operating system (RHEL, Ubuntu) and other applications.  • Implementing Puppet for a start-up in preparation for compliance requirements due to an impending acquisition by a large publicly traded company.  • Developed Ansible playbooks to configure, deploy and maintain software components of the existing/new infrastructure.  • Cert PKI manager via Symantec for Cert provisioning and renewals: for servers and site hosting  • Setup and Configuration of Puppet Configuration Management.  • Developed Puppet modules to automate deployment, configuration, and lifecycle management of key clusters.  • Wrote puppet manifests for deploying, configuring, and managing collected for metric collection and monitoring.  • Build automatic provisioning system with kickstart and Puppet.  • Responsible for maintenance of development tools and utilities and to maintain shell, Perl automation Scripts.  • Set up and support network hardware using TCP/IP, SMB, VPN, IPSEC, VoIP  • Manage a VoIP phone network, I Pad and Microsoft Surface support/configuration  • Worked with project manager and auditing teams to implement PCI compliance.  • Build LPAR and DLPAR system and Installed AIX 5.2, 5.3 on LPAR using NIM.    Environment: RHEL 5, 6, and 7, DELL and IBM blades, SUN Servers (6500, 4500, 420, Ultra 2 Servers), Solaris 2.6/2.7/8,XML, PKI, SQL, Puppet, Ansible, Ruby, OpenStack, VERITAS NetBackup, VERITAS Volume Manager, Samba, NFS, NIS, LVM, Linux, Shell Programming. Skills Clariion, Emc symmetrix, Symmetrix, Nfs, Solaris, Veritas cluster server, Cluster server, Volume manager, Apache, E10k, Sun, Application server, Perl, Bgp, Dhcp, Network protocols, Ospf, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vmware Additional Information Technical Skills    Operating Systems RHEL 4/5/6/7, Solaris 9/10/11, SuSE 10/11/12  Hardware  HP Proliant, Blade servers, Sun Servers E4500, E6500, E6900, E10K, E15K, E25K, V280, V490, V880, V890, M3000, M4000, M5000, T5120, T5220, T5420, T4-1, T4-2, T5-1, Dell PowerEdge R710, R720, R810, R820, DMX3 and DMX4 Storage Arrays, EMC Symmetrix and CLARiiON    Software Vertias Volume Manager, VERITAS File System, VERITAS Cluster Server 3.5, VERITAS Netbackup 6.0  Cloud Technologies Puppet, Ansible, AWS, OCI  Web/ Application Server Tomcat, Apache DB2, Oracle R11&R12  Network Protocols DHCP, DNS, SNMP, SMTP, Ethernet, IOS, netstat, NFS, NIS, nslookup, RIP, OSPF, BGP, TCP/IP, and tcpdump.  Cluster Environment VCS, Oracle RAC, Redhat Cluster  Programming Languages Bash, Perl  Virtualization Dockers, Containers, VMware, Xen, KVM, Kubernetes