Outside Plant Technician Outside Plant Technician Pecos, TX United States Army Veteran with a Class A CDL possessing a plethora of skills and tacit knowledge from over ten years of combined education and experience. Solutions-oriented with notable success directing a broad range of initiatives while participating in the planning and the implementation phases in direct support of targeted objectives. Strong ability to manage multiple projects simultaneously without a single point of failure. Proficiently trains and develops personnel, and expertly manages daily operations on a corporate enterprise level. Establishes and maintains strong relationships with stakeholders to ensure seamless operations. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Outside Plant Technician AT&T Bellsouth - Panama City, FL November 2013 to April 2014 Served as an Outside Plant Technician responsible for installing, transferring, and terminating lines and equipment per AT&T policy and procedures. Worked within the engineering and construction department and utilized various testing equipment to verify qualify of service. Conducted work which included above, below and buried communications infrastructure consisting of various type fiber and copper communication lines. Processed daily and weekly plant work orders to define scope of work performed to include but not limited to Project Light Speed/ U-verse, living units, distribution area identification, cutting dead to field, not in terminal adjustments, specification of Does Not Exist call outs, no dial tone, remediation, connecting facility, partial connect facility, pair bonding zones, identifying primary and secondary pairs, conditioning pairs in terminal, removing and restoring services, performing ready access replacements, placing and replacing buried, aerial, and underground structure terminal closures. Prepared correspondence, status reports of the plant work orders to brief senior management of the current work order posture within the organization. Lead Systems Administrator and Computer Systems Engineering Technician U.S. Navy December 2008 to April 2013 Served as the Lead Systems Administrator and Computer Systems Engineering Technician for the Littoral Combat Ship (LCS) Mission Package Integration Laboratory (MPIL). Responsible for supporting project assignments as tasked by the Program Office. Led the assigned tasking and was the Branch point of contact for all MPIL and Branch systems administration work in the Mine Warfare Division. Planned, tracked, coordinated, directed, reported and managed systems administration tasks for projects in accordance with project management policy. Provided input to Project Engineers to develop program plans for approval by the cost analyst, provided input for updating the document and briefed status as required. Represented NSWC PCD in all appropriate meetings and was the branch representative for all MPIL related efforts. Provided outside project and customer support as requested by the Branch, Division Head, or higher command. Interpreted mission data as required for command, control, combat, communications, and intelligence (C4I) systems. Setup simulation and stimulation (SIM/STIM) operations and test support scenarios per customer requirements. Successfully programmed and operated unmanned surface and submarine vehicles using redundant navigation systems and various data collection sensors. Provided support of testing, troubleshooting, creating work-around solutions, and insured communication security for Office of Naval Research (ONR) projects as well as with the LCS Project, Total Ship Computing Environment (TSCE), Multi-Vehicle Communications System (MVCS), and multiple unmanned vehicle integrations and operations. Built and tested the Advanced TSCE also known as the Adaptive Force Package Mobile Test Bed (ADFPMTB) as a site improvement project using IBM Blade Centers running a hypervisor operating system to manage the computing power and network interfacing. Built, tested and proved the concept of a virtualized environment for the TSCE on the Sun based system as well as on the advanced IBM based system using VMware, VMsphere, as well as Sonet. Built, tested, and proved in laboratory environment Dual RMFS operations on a virtual TSCE environment using multiple NAS setup and teamed NICs and network trunking and port channeling. Built, tested, and proved automatic start and stop procedures for various aspects of systems for TSCE to include Sim/Stim. Ensured adherence and oversight of physical security policy as well as information assurance policy. Used approved software such as Eyeretina, Backtrack, various system loggers, various network quality scanners, i.e. Solarwinds, remediation tools such as Gold Disk and Srr-Scripts, and performed backups using DD mode and imaging software to backup retrieve, investigate, and remediate issues of data loss, latency, and security. Redlined groomed test procedures prepared by contractor and tested by government and contract test teams per software version drop. Ensured all systems key codes and software licensing were updated per manufacturer/developer agreements and stored properly within the configuration management architecture. Network Switching Systems Operator/ Maintainer U.S. Army May 2003 to February 2008 Served as the Network Switching Systems Operator/ Maintainer responsible for installing, initializing, operating, and performing direct support maintenance on electronic switching assemblages, systems, and ancillary communications equipment. Used computers to perform system/network operations. Interpreted BIT/BITE and error codes to correct system faults. Installed, operated, performed strapping/restrapping, PMCS, and unit level maintenance on COMSEC devices. Served as a Base Band Node operator during which time was recognized and awarded for consistently exceeding expectations by working beyond shift schedule to ensure that all subscriber issues were resolved in a timely manner. In Bagdad, my primary role as the day shift operator required the responsibility of managing over 1500 NIPR and 1500 SIPR subscribers, Five critical intermodal links, and regular COMSEC bulk transfers to over 30 internodal switches. My knowledge and expertise while working as an operator on the Base Band Node (BBN) at Camp Victory was crucial to the accomplishment of the team's mission. Due to systems growth and total force integration initiatives, was tasked with training members of C/327th Signal BN in the TTPs and responsibilities for subscriber services on the Cisco Call Manager at Camp Victory. My knowledge of Cisco Routers, switches, and the complicated VoIP network made the training successful. My ability to quickly pickup and share information with troubleshooting and incoming subscriber procedures set the standard for my successors and improved services to VoIP subscribers. My performance is documented stating, worked in three Primary MOS fields to make Alpha Company's mission a success: 25F Network Switching Systems Operator-Maintainer, 25L Cable Systems Installer Maintainer, and 25B Information Systems Operator - Analyst. Went into several radio vans, many satellite antenna intermodals and communications facilities operated by both civilian contractors and military personnel. My knowledge and expertise of the tactical voice and data systems helped improve, expand and further support theater operations. Setup and cloned the BBN system at Al Assad Airbase while utilizing existing Saddam era, Czech copper communication infrastructure to create uplinks at distances greater than manufacture specifications with zero frame slips until we could build a fiber network throughout the base all while repairing managing the existing voice and data networks already in place. In Afghanistan, was commended for my enthusiasm and technical and tactical competence of which were integral to the success of Regional Command West Liaison Detachment. Acted as the Detachment's sole Communications Specialist with duties and responsibilities including Ultra-High  Frequency (UHF), Very-High Frequency (VHF), High-Frequency (HF), Frequency Modulation (FM), and various satellite communications. My expertise allowed the Detachment to maintain effective communications during numerous sensitive and highly complex special operations combat missions. Displayed maturity and poise well above my paygrade in dealing with our ISAF GWOT partners. Dealt with ISAF member nations daily at the RC-W Headquarters at Camp Arena in Herat, Afghanistan, representing Task Force-31 (TF-31) and Combined Joint Special Operations Task Force Afghanistan (CJSOTF-A) in communications matters to company grade and field grade officers in the RC CJ-2 and CJ-6 on a routine basis and was a sought out subject matter expert for communications system troubleshooting throughout the region. Routinely processed Operational Detachment Alpha (ODA) Combat Operations (CONOPS), Requests for Information (RFI), Requests for Supplies (RFS), and prepared them for presentation to the Regional Commander, TF-31, and CJSOTF-A. Ultimately the result was successful coordination and deconfliction of over 200 United States (US) Special Operations Forces (SOF) and Afghanistan National Special Forces (ANSF) combat operations in support of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan (IROA) and the Afghan Development Zones found in the Regional Command. Education Degree Seeking in Computer Engineering/ Computer Science Northwest Florida State College - Niceville, FL Skills Onsite (10+ years), Key Holder (10+ years), Applied Behavior Analysis (10+ years), Microsoft Certified Professional (10+ years), Network Administration (10+ years), CPR, Chemistry, Documentation, Microsoft Word, Organizational Skills, Typing, retail sales, training Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: Sergeant Certifications/Licenses Security+ March 2009 to Present Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) March 2009 to Present