Information Systems Security Officer, CA Information <span class="hl">Systems</span> Security Officer, CA Information Systems Security Officer, CA Houston, TX Researched, develop, implement, test and review an organization's information security in order to protect  information and prevent unauthorized access. Inform users about security measures, explain potential threats,  install software, implement security measures and monitor networkss in a Department of Defense environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Systems Security Officer, CA Cyber-security July 2018 to April 2019 Ability to explain highly-technical Cyber-security concepts in way executives and non-technical staff can  understand.  ? Self-initiative to research, solve, synthesize, and deliver solutions on problems, new concepts, and topics.  ? Effectively and efficiently document findings and develop actionable, clear recommendations.  ? Work in Federal Cyber-security environment.  ? Expertise with FISMA, OMB Cyber-security Directives, and NIST 800-34, NIST 800-53.  ? Develop and maintain System Security Plans and associated artifacts  ? Adept with Security Assessment & Authorization (SA&A or A&A) process.  ? Ability to manage project tasks such as remediation, artifact development, and other activities.  ? Ability to analyze vulnerability reports and create POA&Ms.  ? Able to perform Security Control Assessment (SCA) planning and development. System Administrator Stratascorp Marine Corps Support Facility - New Orleans, LA March 2018 to July 2018 Desktop and Server management tools to include patching, monitoring applications and antivirus software.  ? Concepts, understanding, configuration and administration of external DNS and hosting.  ? Proficient at working with Active Directory Domain Services.  ? Network components and concepts - Switches, routers, firewalls and WAP.  ? Strong understanding of Unix/Linux concepts.  ? Assists in the planning, design, documentation, and implementation of various systems to include servers, network equipment, storage, backup, desktop PC, and software applications.  ? Multi-Factor Authentication, LAPS, IBM BigFix, Solarwinds, Bit Locker, Vulnerability Scanning.  ? Maintains functionality of network printers and scanners.  ? Familiarity with ticketing systems, incident management and resolution, and change management processes. Lead Information Technology Technician Insight Global Marine Corps Air Station - Yuma, AZ October 2017 to February 2018 Responsible for the ongoing maintenance and future planning needs of the company's desktop environment  ? Being able to answer to and perform moves, adds, and changes requests as they are submitted by users  ? Collaborate with existing vendors to evaluate the new technology that is available and make  recommendations to management on using that technology  ? Consult with IT support and design departments to make sure that network expansion projects are in line  with the company's plans  ? Monitor the performance of the company's desktop infrastructure and make suggestions for improving  efficiency. Install, configure, test, maintain, monitor, and troubleshoot end-user workstations along with related hardware. Junior Information Security Officer ComputerMinds.com - Euless, TX 2015 to 2017 Provided documentation and data collection support.  ? Assisted in the evaluation and implementation of new security technologies.  ? Implemented, as directed, appropriate response measures to security threshold.  ? Categorized support problems and responded with the appropriate level of urgency. Education Marketing University North Texas Skills Top Secret (1 year) Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ Additional Information Acas HBSS Emass