System Administrator II <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II System Administrator II - AKIRA INC Warner Robins, GA Work Experience System Administrator II AKIRA INC - Robins AFB, GA April 2016 to Present • Assisted in conducting and managing inventory for high and low security organizational assets without hindering mission effectivity.  • Responsible for establishing and maintaining physical network connectivity as required by the organization, to include server moves, running or changing cables routes, and establishing new networks throughout the organization.  • Installed an Enterprise Service Desk lab from the ground up; included setting up workstations and running cables between workstations and servers.  • Relocated workstations and servers into a new environment to increase effectivity, and provided minimal downtime during the transfer process.  • Maintained a safe and clean work area as required by the regulations, and passed monthly inspections. Cyber System Operator AIR NATIONAL GUARD July 2012 to Present Deployed 15 Mar-1 July 2015    • Responsible for installation, configuration and maintenance of mobile communication command center providing secure telecommunications of voice and data services.  • Install, configure, and support Local Area Network (LAN), Wide Area Network (WAN) and Internet system on a segment of a network system. Setup and maintained LAN connectivity and wireless networks.  • Maintain network and application hardware and software. Monitor network to ensure network availability to all system users and perform necessary maintenance to support network availability.  • Effective troubleshooter, adept at solving problems rapidly.  • Knowledge of network hardware including servers, routers, and other computer devices. Deploy Windows server updates and preform preventative maintenance with limited downtime.  • Manage Active Directory Users and Computers on Windows based servers for the TDC Heavy deployable package.  • Experience in network security protocols and firewall configuration.  • Implement and manage hosted server applications.  • Provide IT support including hardware troubleshooting, system recovery, email communication and application support.  • Diagnose network problems involving a combination of hardware, software, power and communications issues.  • Analyze complex computer systems to assess vulnerability and risk, including VMware infrastructure. Identify, report and resolve network security violations.  • Respond to all client requests for technical support by phone, email and the inter-office chat service. Responsible for resetting user passwords and access rights, adding and modifying users, assisting in the configuration of services in a variety of systems.  • Manage application patches, data backup, security changes and network configuration. Systems Administrator ROME RESEARCH - Robins AFB, GA November 2015 to April 2016 • Consolidated multiple ticketing systems, improved communication and ticket turnover rate by 7%.  • Investigated alerts created by IDS/IPS including malicious file uploads, compromised servers, SQL injections, and port scanning.  • Performed customer service duties, troubleshoot help desk tickets, investigate connectivity communication issues between server and hardware Kiosk stations.  • Routed hardware back to original equipment manufacturer for warranty repair, and document routing requirements.  • Setup and configured workstations for deployment.  • Performed daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware, server resources and systems.  • Verified completion of scheduled jobs such as backups and software updates.  • Implemented software package installations, installed patches, and performed upgrades.  • Troubleshot installation and implementation issues. Education Perry High School 2012