Virtualization Analyst IV Virtualization Analyst IV Virtualization Analyst IV - Costco Seattle, WA • Linux and Windows Technology Professional having 6+ years of I.T. experience in Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5/6, Windows 2003, 2008, 2012 R2.  • VMware Technology Professional in VMware ESXi 3/4/5/5.5/6.0  • Experience in RHEL & Windows server provisioning, Upgrades, Patching, Configuration and Performance Tuning for Linux/Windows servers in VMware environments.  • Expert in deploying and troubleshooting code in Development and Production environments using both manual techniques and automated tools.  • Experience in deploying and creating new RHEL VM guests with utilizing Red Hat Satellite Server as well as Customized ISO Images and templates  • Experience with Amazon Web Services (AWS) deployment and management of EC2 and S3 instances.  • Expert in Server Builds, Installs, Upgrades, Patches, Configuration and Performance Tuning in Red Hat Linux and VMware environments.  • Expertise in deployment of Java Applications using JBoss/Oracle Weblogic and Tomcat Application Server.  • Skilled in monitoring and support of large enterprise applications using Splunk and New Relic.  • Expert in DNS and Active Directory Services  • Experience in configuring network services like NFS, NIS, DHCP, DNS, SAMBA, FTP, HTTP, SSH, and Web Server. Work Experience Virtualization Analyst IV Costco September 2017 to Present • Provided proactive maintenance and support of virtualization server hardware and hypervisor, including patching and driver/firmware updates  • Provided third-level support for incident resolution related to virtual server infrastructure.  • Tests and implements new tools to better manage virtual server infrastructure  • Drives automation initiatives for VM creation, configuration, and provisioning.  • Design and build out new ESXi Clusters to house multiple business critical applications.  • Designs hypervisor virtualization solutions based on best practices for scale up and out  • Provides technical engineering and design review for new server systems, applications, infrastructure, and hardware.  • Deploy vRealize Operations Manager for proactive monitoring, data collection, and reinforced troubleshooting. Systems Engineer Defense Health Agency September 2016 to September 2017 • Supported all Windows 2008/2012 R2 and RHEL Servers.  • Applied monthly patch management to all servers using WSUS and SCCM.  • Performed security scans using Nessus and ArcSight to pinpoint potential security vulnerabilities in the environment.  • Lead VMware engineer responsible for monitoring overall environment health and administering VM's and hosts.  • Configured and managed SCOM and SCCM throughout the DOT environments.  • Worked closely with security team to monitory system, run scans, and detect, evaluate and resolve all vulnerabilities.  • Performed security scans using Nessus and ArcSight to pinpoint potential security vulnerabilities in the environment.  • Provided support for system engineering activities such as upgrades, patches, and integration of new hardware/software Systems Engineer M9 Solutions December 2014 to October 2016 • Scheduled, planned, and supported code deployments into Test, Dev, and Prod environment using manual and automated tools such as Jenkins.  • Integrated problem resolution, root cause analysis, and quality assurance for all Hardware/Software/OS.  • Establish dashboards in New Relic & Splunk to monitor system throughput to ensure 99.9% uptime.  • Performed system administrative tasks such as Application Maintenance, Performance Tuning, Upgrades, OS Backups, Migrations, User Account Maintenance, Storage Management, and Patch Management.  • Troubleshoot any performance or configuration issues/incidents with Apache Web Servers and engaging  • Middleware teams to troubleshoot JVM issues.  • Author and modify scripts for application deployment as well as system monitoring.  • Analyzed system logs using Splunk to identify potential vulnerabilities within servers and production environment.  • Performing JBoss Application Server Administration tasks such as installation, configuration, monitoring and performance tuning. Systems Administrator ALCOA April 2012 to December 2014 • System engineer and architect of a new central data vault environment for major Aluminum company.  • Reengineered company's systems setup, establishing automated server generation routines, optimizing system performance, installing upgrades/patches, establishing system monitoring and maintaining security protocols.  • Install and configured HP BL460 blade servers on C7000 Blade chassis.  • Configured and integrated multiple Linux and Windows 2012 R2 servers as well ESXI 5.2 & 5.5.  • Installed and configured DNS Server, Active Directory, Exchange, File Servers, and SQL Server.  • Created artifacts for system architecture document, supplemental requirements document, architecture diagrams; verifying technical production infrastructure; designing and executing performance tests; and documentation. Education Bachelors in Information Technology in Information Technology Walden University 2008 Skills HIPAA, VISUAL STUDIO, HTML, MS PROJECT, PERL