Senior Systems Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Kansas City, KS Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator Apex Analytics Group - Fort Leavenworth, KS February 2018 to Present Manage Classified/Unclassified systems to support experimentation objectives.    Manage physical and virtual servers across multiple networks to ensure they meet security requirements.  -Updates  -STIG compliance    Manage system updates with WSUS server.    Image computers and install software to meet user requirements.    Work with technical support team to ensure maximum up time of systems.    Install and Configure military testing/simulation programs.    Experience with Office products, AD, Group Policy, Anti-Virus, VMWare, Server management, STIG/SCAP compliance, Windows Deployment Server.    Some minor experience with managing Cisco switches and routers. Computer Systems Analyst Hallcon - Lenexa, KS December 2014 to February 2018 Analyzing, implementing, integrating and supporting business and operation applications and processes in support of core organizational functions.    Working with Helpdesk Support Techs to provide 2nd level support to end users to ensure that business goals and solutions are being met, providing primary and secondary support for all business applications, and supporting day-to-day functions of critical operations and applications    Computer system support for hardware and software issues. Installed and maintained computer systems with both internal and external applications for a large group of users.    Experience with Office products, AD, Group Policy, Anti-Virus, VMWare, Server management, Citrix, Email management, remote support and Track-IT ticket software.  Some Apple product experience    Managed corporate image process to include building a corporate image and maintaining it with periodic updates. Some scripting involved for image process to include .bat files and powershell. System Administrator U.S Army - Fort Irwin, CA 2011 to June 2014 Provided support for a network of over 150 computer systems over a 3 year period, resulting in an increase in workflow and a decrease in computer related issues.    Ensured proper maintenance and distribution of classified communications security material for a group of over 600 employees, leading to an increase in successful objectives and a decrease in the amount of security violations.    Provided communications support for over 30 successful training missions, resulting in the outstanding training of over 500,000 highly motivated government employees.    Provided computer software/hardware support for a network of over 150 computers and over 600 users.    Served as the government cell phone/blackberry manager for 17 top-ranked individuals.    Facilitated the software upgrade of over 150 computers from windows vista to windows 7.    Provided exceptional customer service for computer related issues to a group of over 600 government employees.    Successfully provided and maintained satellite network coverage for over 20 missions, resulting in employees having internet capability in an area where it would normally not be provided.    Reported daily status updates to senior leadership    Succeeded in a rapidly changing and stressful environment by adapting the practices of the organization and applying them to the situation.    Enforced test standards and operating instructions for over 150 computer systems and a group of over 600 government employees, ensuring the proper use of government computer equipment.    Access to classified/secret systems and material. Education High School Diploma McCutcheon High School - Lafayette, IN 2010 Skills Computer Hardware (6 years), Computer Repair (6 years), Network Administration (3 years), Network Security (2 years), Desktop Support (6 years), Customer Service (6 years), Office Applications (6 years), Windows (6 years), System Administration (3 years), Technical Support (6 years), Active Directory (3 years), Inventory Management (3 years), Troubleshooting (6 years), Vmware, System Admin, System Administrator Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: SPC June 2010 to July 2017 I was active duty until 2014 and I was in the Reserves until 2017 Commendations: 3x Army Achievement Medal 2012  Global War on Terrorism Service Medal 2010  National Defense Service Medal 2010  Army Service Medal 2010  106th Signal Brigade Certificate of Appreciation 2012 Certifications/Licenses Security+ April 2018 to April 2021 Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/1lvgohym89kc-fku Technical Support — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/a7vprfcdrb4duv0k Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ebqny7vbtsi-ev7i Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Secret Clearance  Security+ Certification