IT Administrator IT <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Administrator Baltimore, MD Certified Information Technology professional seeking an Information Technology support position where a strong interest in customer satisfaction and a natural skill for solving problems will be of value. Work Experience IT Administrator Tenax Corporation - Baltimore, MD August 2018 to Present • Administer all desktop and thin clients for office and production  • Manage servers via Hyper-V. Veeam Backup. Watchguard Firewall.   • Assist with larger projects involving Microsoft Dynamics NAV, equipment overhaul, inventory  • Responsible for creating new user accounts, email, Citrix, Dynamics NAV logins.  • Administer network related issues for two buildings. Run fiber lines to production for WiFi. IT Systems Administrator MILLER REFRIGERATION AND CONSTRUCTION - Rosedale, MD June 2016 to March 2018 • Administer Windows Server 2012, SQL, MobileTech, and workstation environment  • Maintain all technology related items for 120+ users  • Manage Android/iPhones via MaaS360 for 70 Technicians  • Newly created position. Built the infrastructure of the network, rack, switches, UPS, firewall configuration, barracuda back up retention policies, group policy, phone policy, and creation of the help desk system.  • Prior to starting, company outsourced their technical needs. Workstations and network had inconsistencies, gateway was wrong on the server, firewall and backup configuration not in place.  • Responsible for creating user accounts and groups in Active Directory, Exchange, and Dynamics GP.  • Setup Dell Net Extender on Dell Sonicwall Information Technology Administrator ARROW CHILD AND FAMILY MINISTRIES - Towson, MD July 2012 to June 2016 • Troubleshoot all computers, maintain the server, and diagnose network related issues  • Reply to helpdesk tickets in-person and through remote access in a timely manner for 15 locations  • Solely response for creating users and groups in Active Directory, Office 365 email accounts, and retention policies with Symantec Backup 2014 at all locations  • Responsible for running network cables, deploying a server, installing rack, switches, UPS, wireless routers, DHCP, DNS and computers to a newly renovated building.  • Assisted in configuration of server and network for 5 Maryland locations, and 9 Texas locations.  • Maintain all aspects of analog phone and A/V systems, including master resets, troubleshooting, and assisting individual employees with customization  • Setup Cisco AnyConnect VPN environment Education Bachelor's in Cyber Security and IT Management University of Maryland University College - Baltimore, MD March 2016 to August 2019 Associate in Network Technology COMMUNITY COLLEGE OF BALTIMORE COUNTY - Essex, MD May 2010 to December 2013 Computer Science STRAYER UNIVERSITY - White Marsh, MD May 2008 to April 2009 EASTERN TECHNICAL HIGH SCHOOL - Essex, MD 2005 Skills Active Directory (8 years), DHCP (6 years), DNS (6 years), remote access (8 years), wireless (8 years), System Admin (6 years), System Administrator (6 years), Vmware (3 years), Citrix Virtualization (1 year), Microsoft Dynamics (2 years), vpn (6 years), sql (2 years), firewalls (6 years), Exchange, LAN, security, Networking Certifications/Licenses MCSA Additional Information Technical Skills  Hardware: Set-up of local and networked workstations, support of servers, networked printers, scanners,  and routers; Category 5 Cabling    Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows 7, 8, 10, Windows 2003/2008/2012 Server, Microsoft Exchange, Microsoft SQL, Office 365, Mac OS Sierra, and some Linux.  Networking Utilities: Active Directory, Group Policy, DNS, DHCP, VPNs, RRAS and Remote Access Protocols, RAID, TCP/IP, LAN/WAN, Ethernet, Wireless devices, Android Mobile devices, iPhone Mobile Devices, Hyper-V  Security Tools: Firewall and Proxy Server configuration, Antivirus applications, Disaster Recovery and Remote Management, Fault Tolerance tools, Network Hardening  Applications: MS Office Suite, Tight VNC, NetScan Tools, PDQ Deploy, Skype for Business/Lync, Microsoft Dynamics GP, Micorosft Dynamics NAV, Citrix, Signature 2013, Mobile Tech 5.6, SSRS, Microsoft Visual Studio, Report Builder and Designer