IT Manager/ Systems Administrator IT Manager/<span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Manager - Osiris Therapeutics Inc Baltimore, MD A dedicated, bilingual, and interactive IT Manager with over 7 years of experience managing server infrastructures. Able to effectively plan, test, install and optimize server infrastructure to consistently achieve high availability and performance. Proven ability to create and deliver solutions tied to business growth, organizational development and systems/ network optimization. Skilled problem identifier and troubleshooter comfortable managing systems, projects and teams in a range of IT environments. Work Experience IT Manager/ Systems Administrator Osiris Therapeutics - Columbia, MD January 2017 to Present MANAGEMENT SKILLS:  • Manage Office 365 as a Global Admin, data retention, and provide eDiscoveries for legal console.  • Responsible for maintaining part 11 HIPAA compliance, SOC 1 and SOC 1 Type II compliance. - Review reports and create SOC 1 Report Review Memos.  • Review, approve, and implement IT security policies from 3rd party security assessments - Policies include: Change Management, Configuration Management, Network Access, Vendor Management, Documentation and Retention & Data Protection and Contingency.  • Manage Super User access in ERP (QAD) system and responsible for documenting change controls.  • Assist in company acquisition, integration, and migration of data.  • Project Manager for sales application implementation, Dynamic 365 CRM, equipment upgrades and deployment.  • Skilled negotiator for multiple company-wide contracts: eFax, Rightfax, Concur, Adobe, DocuSign, OKTA.  • Manage helpdesk ticket management console (SolarWinds and SysAid) including inventory and assets list.  • Manage Mitel System Administration & Diagnostics and AVAYA IP (VOIP/POE).  • Manage and trained Desktop Support Specialist.  • Solely manages IT department in IT director’s absence.  • Serves as main point of contact and IT liaison with the responsibility of handling all departmental escalations.    PROFESSIONAL SKILLS:  • MS Office 365, Microsoft Azure, Active Directory, SharePoint and other cloud base platforms.  • Reimaging /reformatting operating systems and troubleshooting local workstations.  • Virtualization RDP (terminal services, VMWare), SAN/NAS storage recovery snapshots.  • Access control, Symantec Endpoint Encryption and anti-virus administration.  • Monitoring status of agency LAN and WAN including VPN – performs system maintenance and resolves connectivity issues.  • PowerShell and command prompt.  • Creates and implements new hire training courses.  • Excellent oral, written, and interpersonal communication skills.  • Critical thinker, problem solver and detail- oriented.  • Ability to multitask under high pressure and meet weekly goals/ deadlines.  • Extremely patient and provides exceptional customer service.• Provides hands- on implementation and execution across various software and hardware platforms. - Microsoft Server OS, SQL, VMWare, Cisco, Citrix and other proprietary applications.    OTHER RESPONSIBILITIES:   • Performs daily system checks, reviews and responds to critical events.  • Gathers, analyzes, and corrects performance related issues.  • Troubleshoots hardware, software, mobile, and desktop environments.  • Troubleshoots local Windows OS, Citrix, MS Exchange servers, and Print Servers (TCP/IP).  • Manages Active Directory administration including account configurations, group policies, DNS and DHCP.  • Provides technical configuration for software and hardware installation.  • Builds servers in physical and VMware virtual environments.  • Creates, configures, and deploys new system images for desktop, laptops, tablets and servers. IT System Administrator Abilities Network - Towson, MD January 2013 to 2017 • Managed terminal servers, phone systems, wireless network services and performed routine back-ups.  • Responsible for disaster recovery - Cohost location (Expedient Data Center).  • Provided technical support to end users.  • Account / email configurations and managed group policies.  • Managed Active Directory, exchange management console and server management.  • Created user-friendly instruction manuals to update the knowledge base system.  • Managed Windows 2008-2012 R2 server environment.  • Managed Cisco routers and switches including patching ports and creating CAT5 cables.  • Strong knowledge of Microsoft Office suite products. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Towson University - Towson, MD December 2015 Upsilon Pi Epsilon Honor Society - Cumulative GPA: 3.4 [Dean’s List: Fall 2015] Towson University - Towson, MD December 2018 Skills Active directory, System administration, Terminal services, Vmware, Vpn, Encryption, Hipaa, Nas, Solarwinds, Virtualization, Application implementation, Change management, Configuration management, Deployment, Management console, Sharepoint, Qad, Data protection, Access control, System Administrator, System Admin, IT Management, ERP, MS Office 365 - Global Admin, Sharepoint Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/joseph-caceres Certifications/Licenses Advanced Technologies of SharePoint 2016 December 2018 to Present This course explains the new hybrid features of SharePoint 2016 along with business intelligence solutions, enterprise content management, web content management infrastructure, solutions, apps as well as how to develop and implement a governance plan and perform an upgrade or migration to SharePoint 2016 Planning and Administering SharePoint 2016 October 2018 to Present This course explains how to deploy, administer, and troubleshoot a Microsoft SharePoint 2016 environment. In addition, I learned learn the guidelines, best practices, and considerations to install, configure, manage, and optimize SharePoint 2016.