Senior Systems Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Highly skilled in changing technologies, and implementing them into new environments. Indianapolis, IN Responsible for the technical design, planning, implementation, and the highest level of performance tuning and recovery procedures for mission critical enterprise systems. Serves as a technical expert in the area of systems administration for complex server infrastructures. Highly skilled in changing technologies, and implementing them into new environments. Expert in server upgrades and data migration to new or existing application webservers. Strong communication skills in corporate or executive environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator State of Indiana - Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles - Contractor October 2016 to April 2019 Maintaining an infrastructure of over 500 servers for over 5000 end users. Detailed knowledge of IIS and application pool setups, as well as, ODBC connections to database architectures. Secure setup and configuration of our mobile branch using ASA firewalls and LTE connections. Setup and configuration of VeriFone credit card machines and activation. Creation of all technical writings of training for servers and client PCs. Creation of the SharePoint site they were hosted on. Improved all server issues in a 3 year span that had been issues for many years, generating Crystal reports to print properly.  During that time the BMV has the highest satisfaction rate, and wait times in the country. Served on two task forces to negotiate RFPs, and implementing them into our current infrastructure. Maintaining the Microsoft click once application our queuing systems we used on Stealth touch machines at our branches. Maintaining, and implementing new camera systems, alarm panels, and DVR units. Creation of application pools needed for new sites within IIS. Responsible for outward facing site mybmv.in.gov hosted by third party vendor. Worked daily with programmers, business analysts, DBAs, and directors to facilitate their requests and projects. Setup and implementation of new Wi-Fi projectors laptops can present from in all conference rooms. Responsible for all AutoTest stations in the state installation, configuration, and sever setup. Working from our Vfire ticketing systems that hosted requests for over 140 branches across the state. DHCP pool address allocation in Orion Solar Winds management software.  Responsible for training a team of four other Sys Admins as the BMV created a dedicated Systems Admin team internally for the agency. Recommends the redesign and configuration of operating systems and system applications. Investigates and analyzes feasibility of system requirements and develops system specifications. Identifies methods, solutions, and provides project leadership and management in order to provide a high level of service to the customers of the department. Senior Systems Administrator State of Indiana - Indiana Office of Technology - Contractor - Indianapolis, IN November 2015 to October 2016 Responsible for the technical design, planning, implementation, and the highest level of performance tuning and recovery procedures for mission critical enterprise systems. Serves as a technical expert in the area of system administration of complex operating systems. Recommends the redesign and configuration of operating systems and system applications. Investigates and analyzes feasibility of system requirements and develops system specifications. Identifies methods, solutions, and provides project leadership and management in order to provide a high level of service to the customers of the department. Performs full supervision of Operations staff.  Manages the day-to-day operations of the PCC host computers by monitoring system performance, configuration, maintenance and repair. Ensures that records of system downtime and equipment inventory are properly maintained. Applies revisions to the host system firmware and software. Works with vendors to assist, support activities. Develops new system and application implementation plans, custom scripts and testing procedures to ensure operational reliability. Trains technical staff in how to use new software and hardware developed and/or acquired.  Performs troubleshooting as required. As such, lead, problem-solving efforts often involving outside vendors and other support personnel and/or organizations. Ensures high availability and acceptable levels of performance of mission critical host computer resources  Positions in this classification may perform all or some of the responsibilities above and all positions perform other related duties as assigned. LAN Administrator State of Indiana - Indiana Office of Technology - Contractor - Indianapolis, IN August 2014 to November 2015 Brady provided LAN support for the following local, state and government agencies;  ATG, BMV, BOHA, DWD, DCS, DFR, DHS, DNR, DOC, DOE, FSSA, IDEM, IGC, INDOT, IPAC, ISP, Lottery Commission and Secretary of State, and SEN to name a few.  LAN administrator's job responsibilities include: installing LAN network components, tracking and renewing licenses for software and equipment, monitoring, LAN performance, upgrading LAN network software and hardware, creating network redundancy and backups to ensure continuity in the event of network failure, and installing software and hardware to ensure local area network security.  The LAN network administrator is responsible for maintaining an organization's local area network. The local area network connects computers and other equipment that shares a common communications line or network server. In most cases, the LAN spans a single geographical site, such as a corporate office. Business Systems Analyst Eli Lilly and Company August 2013 to August 2014 Creation and implementation of SharePoint 2010 websites. New site builds provide scientists, doctors, and pharmacists secure sites to house document libraries. All skill sets fit into the role of SharePoint 2010 Configuration and Microsoft Office Specialist. Worked with the Content Management Services Team. A team of 8 responsible for security, implementation, administration of over 2,000 FDA clinical SharePoint collaboration sites. Collaborated with Neuroscientists, Microbiologists, Molecular Biologists, Research and Development teams, and Doctors to meet the needs of specific SharePoint site builds. Brady was also part of the Protect Lilly IP initiative launched from the corporate center to protect intellectual property. It required to implement new security groups in SharePoint while also educating the end user of best security practices.  Understands concept and importance of metadata security of IP, while being housed within Libraries or Lists.  Volunteered for a global day of service by attending Eli Lilly's "Hands and Hearts". Consisted of painting 20 fire hydrants in the city of Indianapolis. Systems Administrator II Bell Techlogix, Inc. - Indianapolis, IN July 2011 to March 2013 Brady filled various roles interacting with up to 8 different clients. Starting off at desktop support he moved to a Systems Administrator role, responsible for 4 Midwest campuses. MedTech College - Job duties included relocation of ports to fit new environment requests. Implementation and maintenance of eStrata digital/analog phone systems. VOIP set up and implementation from analog phone system. Imaging with proprietary software such as Symantec Ghost. Knowledge and understanding of SCCM and how it works. Managing servers in Active directory on Windows Server 2003 & 2008. Managing of all print servers and scanners while on-site. Proficient at Remedy ticketing system for daily requests. Maintaining APC battery backup failures as well as Access control systems. Complete IT asset inventory of over 3000 pieces of equipment. Extensive knowledge of IBM Lenovo ThinkPad PC hardware. Experienced in Cisco Zen application for remote access. Ability to network devices such as, projector's on static IP address. Working with bank check scanning equipment. Detailed knowledge of troubleshooting hardware, software issues on a domain. Gained high level of knowledge of MS Office 2003, 2007, & 2010. Ability to manage and maintain Microsoft Windows XP, Vista, & 7. Understanding of Microsoft Exchange setup on Black Berry, iPhone, and Android smart phones. Ability to utilize file share sites such as SharePoint. In depth analysis of known browser related issues. Ability to multitask and prioritize escalated issues accordingly. Ability to resolve most issues remotely via RDP or software based remote applications. On-site service on HP servers and Cisco network hardware. Desktop Support Specialist Lee Computers, LLC April 2011 to July 2011 Brady took part in the Windows 7 refresh project for the Indiana Office of Technology and local government. Job consisted of transferring Users/Documents & Settings to their server from Windows XP machine, then migrated users' data from server to a Windows 7 machine. Also the contract consisted of installing any software or applications to the Windows 7 machine that were on the Windows XP machine. Job required direct interaction with the end user. An agency supported in this migration was an Indiana Department of Administration. Help Desk Support Telamon June 2010 to April 2011 Provided phone support for 10 clients including chat support for projects such as, Iomega, AT&T, Netnitco, Bluefish, Officescape, and various other clients. Involved with a wide area of knowledge with Iomega external HDD, SAN, and NAS devices, as well as, deploying backup programs. Ability to handle phone support while focused on chat sessions as well. Education Certification in Systems Administration Tech Skills - Indianapolis, IN July 2009 to February 2011 Skills IIS, SECURITY, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, EXCHANGE, NETWORK ADMINISTRATION, SERVER ADMINISTRATION, CITRIX, CRYSTAL REPORTS, SSL, VOIP, SAP, MICROSOFT EXCHANGE, WINDOWS 10, WINDOWS SERVER 2003, WINDOWS XP, Active Directory (8 years), Windows Server (10+ years), Windows Server 2008 (8 years), Server Migration (8 years), CCTV (8 years), VPN (8 years), System Administrator, System Admin, Vmware, SCCM Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/bradyrozens Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified January 2010 to Present Network+ March 2010 to Present Security+ December 2010 to Present Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) April 2010 to Present