Senior Systems Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Professional Upper Marlboro, MD Active Security Clearance Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator General Dynamics Information Technology GDIT May 2018 to Present On a team of five system administrators to identify and troubleshoots demonstrated experience diagnosing/debugging faults in complex services or distributed systems, gear including routers, switches, and load balancers, enterprise routing protocols and IP subnetting. Working with Experience with PowerShell, SQL, and Python scripting. Able to diagnose and mitigate faults. Manage IT system infrastructure and any processes related to these systems. Providing support to systems including day-to-day operations, monitoring and problem resolution for all of the client/server. Able to isolate and resolve of hardware and software problems involving the applications, the operating system, the hardware, the communications infrastructure, or any combination.  ACCOMPLISHMENTS:  • Developed and implemented briefing procedures for incoming customers.  • Develops procedures to maintain security and protect systems from unauthorized use, acts of nature and user abuse.  • Developed procedures for users and managed migrations of system accesses and as well. Senior Systems Admin General Dynamics Information Technology GDIT May 2017 to Present On a team of five system administrators to identify and troubleshoots errors with the servers, hardware, application developments and infrastructure up-grades. Assisted over 120 people per day. Monitor government facility framework to ensure proper supporting skills Provides oversight management to highly advanced accounts. Provides server support to other systems and software that all components are working properly. Ability to identify issues when system errors occurred. Researched and made recommendations to remedy the problem and prevent additional problems. Develops technical plans to address individual customer needs such as maintaining network facilities in individual machines, such as drivers and settings of personal computers as well as printers. Administer servers, desktop computers, printers, routers, switches, firewalls, phones, personal digital assistants, smartphones, software deployment, security updates and patches. Analyze network errors and isolate activity to identify errors, ensuring network connectivity throughout LAN/WAN infrastructure is on par with technical considerations.    ACCOMPLISHMENTS:  • Developed and implemented hearing-impaired software throughout the agency.  • Develops procedures to maintain security and protect systems from unauthorized use, acts of nature and user abuse.  • Handled access to restricted cases for developing groups.  • Developed SharePoint procedures for users and managed migrations with new software updates monthly for over 200 individuals. Senior Systems Engineer PGTEK - Herndon, VA June 2016 to May 2017 Develops new system and application implementation plans, custom scripts and testing procedures to ensure operational reliability. Trains technical staff in how to use new software and hardware developed and/or acquired. Manages the functionality and efficiency of a group of computers running on one or more operating systems. Analyzes certain metrics to determine where the server performances is degraded and towards the knowledge of client-server, networking and storage technology to convey the entitled system. As a result, identified solutions to implement in order to improve and resolve system performance. Good troubleshooting experience in windows server administration, windows server OS level and hardware skills. Assisting in VM configuration changes mostly related with Disk, RAM, CPU and Network. Conducting server inventory updates into the relevant database.  ACCOMPLISHMENTS:    • Migration of SharePoint with the department. Developed procedures for users and managed migrations with new software updates monthly for over 4,000 users.  • Develop and maintain comprehensive documentation regarding SharePoint system configuration and operation such as system diagrams, application topology, data flow, SOPs, business processes. Sr. Systems Technician General Dynamics Information Technology GDIT August 2014 to June 2016 Provided Tier 1 & Tier 2 support to an average of 200 clients weekly, identifying network and software errors and implemented innovative solutions to remedy each problems. Collaborating with other support personal when needed to brainstorm technical issues and resolved complex tasks. Installed and configures applications software and related hardware (such as desktops, servers, and related peripherals like printers, scanners, drives, monitors and video teleconferencing hardware). experience supporting a Windows/Exchange environment.    ACCOMPLISHMENTS:  • Developed a training sessions and material for new employees to teach them the standard operating procedures for certain tasks. Facilitated different brownbag for an average of 20 people every 2-3 months to learn desktop capabilities as well as workshops on the transition to the yearly updates to software. Armed Access Control Officer AACO October 2012 to July 2014 OMNIPLEX WORLD SERVICES INCORPORATION    Processed visitor for access to enter the building, as well as maintaining records of the personnel that are leaving or entering the building for over 2,000 individuals.  Provided security measures to properly ensure that all individuals were accounted for and directed to an area of secure safety. Performed vehicle inspections as well as provided briefings.  Managed schedules and upcoming training requirements for the employees on the contract within security.    ACCOMPLISHMENTS:  • Provided training to an average of 5 new personnel members every 6 months on their roles and responsibilities. Education M.S in SOFTWARE ENGINEERING University of Maryland University College Present B. S in FAMILY CONSUMER SCIENCE Liberty University May 2011