Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator Modesto, CA Over the last 6 years in the IT industry, I've found my niche in help desk and troubleshooting roles. I am looking to transition from my current position as a technician for an IT Consulting Firm to a remote position. I bring patience, a calm demeanor, and diligence in follow up to the table. My experience has included a wide array of skills such as system administration, project management, network hardware installations, Ethernet & fiber installations, security camera installation and support, printer repair and support, and computer and server installations. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator KKI Corporation - Modesto, CA November 2018 to Present Consulting Firm with over 50 medium-to-large professional clients.   Primary support for Network Services (HP, Cisco and Sonicwall Appliances)   Design, create, implement and maintain complex networks for our clients.  Manage virtualized environments of Hyper-V and VMWare.  Monitor Metrolink for Internet Services provided for our clients.  Install, troubleshoot and maintain MS Server 2003/2008/2012/2016. Exchange 2010/2013/2016 and SCO/Unix servers.  Provide end user support for hardware/ software needs.  Provide hosting services for clients (Web, Server and Hosted Email)  IP Telephony experience with Altigen Products. Systems Administrator KKI Corporation - Modesto, CA October 2016 to February 2018 Consulting Firm with over 50 medium-to-large professional clients.   Primary support for Network Services (HP, Cisco and Sonicwall Appliances)   Design, create, implement and maintain complex networks for our clients.  Manage virtualized environments of Hyper-V and VMWare.  Monitor Metrolink for Internet Services provided for our clients.  Install, troubleshoot and maintain MS Server 2003/2008/2012/2016. Exchange 2010/2013/2016 and SCO/Unix servers.  Provide end user support for hardware/ software needs.  Provide hosting services for clients (Web, Server and Hosted Email)  IP Telephony experience with Altigen Products. HARDWARE SUPPORT ANALYST FOSTER FARMS - Livingston, CA May 2016 to August 2016 Responsible for providing customer service in response to requests for technical assistance via phone, email, walk-in, or on-site  contact. Install, deploy, troubleshoot & repair desktop & laptop PCs, printers, peripherals and applications/software. GEEK SQUAD AGENT BEST BUY October 2015 to May 2016 Responsible for first contact with customer and maintaining high standards of customer service during high-volume, fast- paced operations. Communicated clearly and positively with coworkers and management. Used selling skills to provide  solutions to customer's technology challenges. Work with the sales team, explaining services and technology to help them  achieve business goals. COMPUTER & INFORMATION SYSTEMS SPECIALIST FEBURUARY 2015 to October 2015 Responsible for assisting in day to day technical needs. Evaluation of the organization's technology use and needs and recommend improvements, such as hardware and software upgrades. Deployment and management of end user computer  systems. Implemented intranet server and data backup solution. STUDENT HELP DESK & COMPUTER TECHNICIAN CALIFORNIA BAPTIST UNIVERSITY July 2012 to January 2015 Responsible for first contact with customer and maintaining high standards of customer service during high-volume, fast- paced operations. Communicated clearly and positively with coworkers and management. Used selling skills to provide  solutions to customer's technology challenges. Work with the sales team, explaining services and technology to help them  achieve business goals. Education Health Science CALIFORNIA BAPTIST UNIVERSITY 2011 to 2015 Skills Microsoft Office (6 years), System Administration (2 years), Hardware (6 years), Project Management (2 years), Remote Desktop Support (4 years), Customer Service (6 years), Windows Server (3 years), Vmware (2 years), Active Directory (3 years), Printers (3 years), System Administrator, System Admin