Development consulting Development consulting Development consulting - Jasabe Dallas, TX Experienced and accomplished Information Technology Professional. Highly knowledgeable in network design,  implementation, technical support, telecommunications and system security. Previous experience in computer  room design, construction, system migrations and management. Confident, straight forward leader with a diverse  field of experiences covering planning, implementation and troubleshooting. Work Experience Development consulting Jasabe - Irvine, CA March 2011 to Present firm Solution Monsters - Las Vegas, NV April 2003 to August 2010 Managed Service Provider to Small, Medium Businesses Sr. Systems Administrator Solution Monsters 2004 to 2010 Promoted to Sr. Systems Administrator to oversee 70 businesses IT networks. Monitor overall customer satisfaction and performance of Service Agreement standards and serve as primary escalation point for reported issues,  working directly with Techs, System Administrators, Website Administrators and Vendor Support Staff on resolutions. Manage and revise Service Agreements to ensure effectiveness, with final approval for all  expenditures. Review and prepare budgets for approval.    Supervise a twelve member team. IT Systems Administrator 2003 to 2008 Provide complete IT support, including planning, network, software and hardware configuration, user training and help desk services to a medium size consulting firm. Maintain and support the network of MS 2003/2008  servers consisting of a dozen Exchange, SQL, Hyper-V, AD, DNS, IIS, File, Print, Back up and VOIP Servers.  Developed and implemented network security strategies, including levels of access and user groups. Planned,  budgeted and proposed all system upgrades, maintenance schedules and software installation. Maintain  computers with operating systems ranging from XP, Win7 and Mac as well as iOS and Android wireless devices.    Selected Achievements:  • Saved over $40,000 by re-negotiating Telco pricing, software purchases and elimination of under-utilized  Service Provider Contracts. Planned, budgeted and completed a company-wide transition from XP to  Windows 7 and hardware upgrades in order to save over $22,000.    • Designed and proposed an internal "DropBox" website to be used by company staff to send large files to clients. Worked with Programmer to rollout working site in less than two weeks.