Junior Systems Administrator Junior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Junior Systems Administrator Mankato, MN A motivated IT professional with 10 years of experience as a junior systems administrator and client facing support technician. Hands on experience with onboarding procedures and system infrastructure with real time monitoring, onsite support for hardware/software as well as remote assistance in local and cloud environments.    Experience and Technical Skills    • Windows Server 2003, 2008, 2012 and 2016.  • Domain Controller: Experience with setting roles and features in a Windows domain based infrastructure.  • Active Directory Users and Computers: Creation, management, migration, security and permissions.  • Group Policy Management: Establish and enforce GPOs with an emphasis on printer and network sharing security groups.  • Cloud Environments: Worked with senior engineers to deliver secure cloud solutions for client organizations. Hands on experience with VMware ESX/ESXi hypervisor and Virtual Desktop Infrastructure in conjunction with VMware Horizon and Vsphere.  • PowerShell: Understanding and utilizing scripts to automate processes.  • VoIP: Provision and manage phones/extensions, troubleshoot connection problems.  • Workflow planning: Discernment and implementation of ITIL practices, create and maintain documentation.  • Employee training: Oversee and ensure proper procedures between engineers and clients, improve communications between technicians and users.  • Microsoft Office, Azure and Exchange server 2010, 2013, 2016 and Office 365: Setup, configure and managing user accounts. Troubleshoot accounts having problems with updating, sending and receiving.  • User level support: Routinely provide remote assistance. Experience troubleshooting and repairing printers, laptops, desktops (PC&Mac).  • Preventative maintenance, software/hardware upgrades, patch maintenance and firmware upgrades.  • Ticketing systems: Zendesk, Spiceworks, Autotask, Sugar-crm and Remedy. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Junior Systems Administrator Hakott/Chopra Enterprises - Carlsbad, CA July 2018 to August 2019 Responsibilities and Contributions  • In charge of all onboarding and account retirement procedures including: AD accounts, voip setup (Ring Central), Office 365/Exchange subscriptions.  • 3rd party application permissions and management for: Winpak (security cards for building access), Sage erp MAS 200, Saleslogix crm, counterpoint ncr.  • Created instructional documentation and provided training for managers, users and team members, matters pertaining to; 3rd party software, safety protocols and best-practice guides.  • Client facing tier 1 & 2 support and remote assistance.  • Asset and Inventory management using Kace.  • For offsite Events, setup and maintained a secure network for users & attendees. Provisioned, tested and updated all workstations & equipment. Ensured functionality for the point of sale system.  • Worked with 3rd party application developers for testing and updates, applicable when users experienced unintended features or bugs during normal app usage.  • Worked after hours for hands on server maintenance due to potential raid failures, critical updates and migrations. Junior Systems Administrator Enteracloud - Carlsbad, CA June 2013 to June 2018 Responsibilities and Contributions  • Started out as a client-facing help-desk in a fast paced managed IT environment and quickly graduated to a junior systems administrator. Responsibilities included: managing and improving infrastructure according to best practices- while still managing client relationships and successfully delivering on SLAs.  • Evaluated client needs alongside senior engineers and CEO for optimization and modernization of their IT infrastructure strategically meeting or exceeding best-practice and security standards.  • Utilized and built base images for virtual machine deployment. Repurposed existing virtual machines effectively reducing the cost of licenses for the company. Added, removed or migrated users from virtual desktop pools.  • Adjusted security and permissions upon client request, quickly restricting or granting access to confidential files, drives and emails.  • Change request projects, updating or implementing 3rd party software and providing the necessary support so users can maintain productivity without interruption.  • Traveled to client site locations for face to face interactions, home office setup and emergency situations where an onsite repair or equipment was needed.  • During events involving critical system infrastructure it is imperative that the client be kept abreast of steps being taken before, during and after the troubleshooting process. Client communication displayed with patience and understanding while resolving the matter is synonymous with high caliber customer service, an important duty as a systems administrator at Enteracloud.  • Other projects included: developing new ways of improving communication between team members using proper escalation tactics and between clients and engineers, to ensure that our users are never left wondering what the status of an open item is. Technician Supervisor A+ Certified, Apple Certified Mac Technician Fry's Electronics - San Marcos, CA November 2010 to June 2013 Responsibilities and Contributions  • Productivity supervisor for service employees.  • Employed the Apple server diagnostics station.  • In home TCP/IP network setup for customers.  • Logistics and parts control manager.  • Maintained manufacturer warranty reimbursement.  • Responsible for training and maintaining certifications among associates.  • Unit distribution based on each service associates level of experience.  • Regularly performed routine maintenance and troubleshot problems on many hardware platforms.  • Performed internal/external component upgrades and replacements to Desktop/Laptops.  • Built rigs from the ground up quickly and effectively.  • Worked with Microsoft Office suite  • Typing skills requisite to perform IT functions.  • Identified and removed viruses, spyware, spamware, hijackers, hacker tools, malware and adware. Education Computer Networking Palomar College - San Marcos, CA 2015 General Education, Intro to Computer Science Technology, Administration of Justice 1&2 Riverside Community College - Riverside, CA 2000 to 2004 Diploma Arlington High School 1996 to 2000 Certifications/Licenses Network+ 2015 CompTIA A+ 2012