IT systems administrator IT <span class="hl">systems</span> <span class="hl">administrator</span> Sunrise, FL Experienced Network Administrator / Systems Administrator with a demonstrated history of working in the computer information technology industry. Skilled in Network Administration, Windows 7, Windows 10, Windows server 2008 R2, and 2012 R2, Microsoft server 2016, Microsoft Azure, Amazon Web Service, Cisco routers and switches; Linux operating systems, Active Directory, Aspect UIP, Call center platforms, Customer Service, Microsoft Word, Microsoft Exchange, and Sales. Strong information technology professional with an Associate of Science (A.S.) focused in Computer Technology, and Electronic Engineering from DeVry University. Who also possess a Cisco Certified Network Association certification (C.C.N.A), a Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP), and a Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate (MCSA) from New Horizon technical Institute. Work Experience IT systems administrator MedPro Billing - Tamarac, FL September 2017 to Present • Manage desktop computers, and servers alike.  • Troubleshoot operating systems such as Microsoft Windows, Microsoft server 2008 R2, Microsoft  • Windows 2012 R2, Linux, and Microsoft Windows 2016. I am also involved in firewall administration,  • Routing and networking with Cisco routers and switches.  • Currently administering and maintaining an on premises Microsoft Exchange duel server replication enabled environment at Medpro Billing.  • SharePoint 2010, 2013, and online (Microsoft office 265 suite) administration, deploy, maintenance, and troubleshoot.  • AWS deployment, and Administration. Specializing in EC2 servers.  • Linux (RHEL) Version 8.0 Psyche  • VMware version 4.1,5.5 EXSI vSphere Network administrator/ systems administrator Promero Inc May 2016 to March 2017 • Configure and maintain Microsoft server 2008 R2 /2012 R2 server environments (Physical and Virtual) High Avail.  • Microsoft server 2012 R2 server maintenance and Monitoring (Supporting 2000+ Users)  • Aspect Call Center servers and software including (Universal Media Servers)  • Enghouse Call Center software (configure, support, and maintain)  • Oracle Contact Center Anywhere (configure, support, and maintain)  • SQL server 2008/SQL server 2012 (GUI)  • AQM, M3 scripting (inbound and outbound) (call Center Platform)  • Salesforce ticketing system update, and maintenance  • Brekeke SIP communication software  • VMware version 4.1,5.5 EXSI vSphere  • Linux (RHEL) Version 8.0 Psyche IT systems administrator / Network administrator Corporate creations network Inc March 2014 to January 2015 • Install, configure, and support an organization's local area network (LAN)  • Monitor network to ensure network availability to all system users and may perform necessary  • maintenance to support network availability  • Monitor and test Web site performance to ensure Web sites operate correctly and without interruption  • Adept in supervising computer user support specialists and computer network support specialists  • SharePoint 2010, 2013, and online (Microsoft office 265 suite) administration, deploy, maintenance, and troubleshoot.  • VMware ver.4.1, 5.5 GA ESXI vSphere. Junior Sales Representative International Buildings - Pompano Beach, FL September 2012 to December 2012 • Handled customer inquiries, informed clients on product information and helped with customer sales decisions  • Contacted potential clients from the company's infomercials and website, dialed up to 350 calls daily  • Collaborated with other junior and senior sales associates on sales projects and company accounts  • Followed up on contract finalization, account completion, and customer service Customer Service Representative Circuit City Stores - Plantation, FL March 2006 to May 2008 • Handled customer queries, retailed electronic products to customers, such as camcorders, digital cameras  • Diagnose and repair Desktop computers, laptops etc.  • Answered approximately 80-100 telephone calls for advice, refunds and returns  • Cleared the merchandize and returning them to their rightful ensured compliance with company policies. Loan Originator Sound Mortgage - Margate, FL May 2003 to November 2005 • Interviewed clients for loan eligibility, Processed 1003 forms, calculated loans and payments,  • prepared loan packets for approval and signature of underwriters and other company officials and  • Handled customer services, answered telephone calls from clients both inbound and outgoing  • Analyzed client's needs and developed clear solutions filing documents, faxing, photocopying, etc. Junior Broker First American Investment June 2002 to October 2003 • Bought, sold, and traded client positions and accounts, researched new and profitable investment opportunities for clients  • Opened, traded, and handled the companies first million-dollar account  • provided customer services for company clients for inbound and outgoing telephone calls  • Maintained and generated new business leads with existing and new clients' account based.  • Negotiated with new prospective clients Education Associate of Science in Computer Hardware DeVry University - Miramar, FL June 2014 Skills Lan/wan, Networking, Sharepoint, Power bi, Excel, Lan, Microsoft office, Word, Ac/dc, Altera, Multimeter, Schematics, Labview, Telecommunications, Microsoft BI, Read schematics, Ac, Active Directory, Linux, Linux Administrator, Red Hat, System Admin, System Administrator, Vmware, Redhat Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Electronics Networking Telecommunications  AC/DC Analysis LAN/WAN AM/FM frequency  Read Schematics Routers LabSim, Logixpro  Multimeter Windows Configuration  LabView Altera/Quartus II  Microsoft Office/Word ver. 14 /Power Point ver. 14/ Power BI /Excel ver. 12/ SharePoint 2010, 2013 365