Website Intern Website Intern Valley Stream, NY I am a current student at the State University of New York at Albany looking to gain experience in the IT industry and looking to finish my B.S. in Informatics through experiential learning. I believe that I can bring alot of creativity, reliability and effectiveness to any company that is willing to give me an opportunity. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Website Intern College of Emergency Preparedness, Homeland Security & Cybersecurity (CEHC) December 2018 to May 2019 • Update and migrate content from old CEHC website into new Drupal CMS  • Configure new pages and correct issues with old forms and files for new CMS Catering Assistant State University of New York at Albany - Albany, NY August 2016 to May 2019 Catering Department  ? Prepare and organize settings for Provost's and President's office events  ? Maintain friendly relations with clients and staff across multiple levels of business. Makerspace Lead Student Organizer College of Emergency Preparedness, Homeland Security and Cybersecurity (CEHC) June 2018 to December 2018 Researched emerging technologies aligned with the field of Homeland Security and Informatics to integrate into the space  ? Help students familiarize themselves with relevant software, hardware and policies  ? Supervised the maintenance and set-up processes of all equipment in the space  ? Created promotional and informational material for the organization and space  ? Maintained and updated organizational website and Wiki Technician Assistant HVAC June 2016 to August 2017 Analyzed and diagnosed problems inside of the HVAC systems  ? Performed routine maintenance of installed heating and air conditioning systems  Computer System Specialist  ? Maintained functional computer systems for the organization  ? Responsible for setup of all digital marketing and follow up platform Systems Technician/ Administrator Lawrence Woodmere Academy June 2014 to May 2015 In charge of backing up and creating system images for distribution to network using tools such as FOG  ? Updated classroom systems across the school campus by installing new desktops and SMART  boards  ? Diagnosed and solved issues in computer systems across the school Education Bachelor of Science in Informatics in Cybersecurity University at Albany, SUNY - Albany, NY December 2019 Skills CSS, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, PYTHON, TABLEAU Additional Information SKILLS:  • Languages fluent: English and Spanish, Proficient: French  • Programming Languages: Java (familiar), Python (familiar), C (familiar) Operating Systems: Linux (Arch, Ubuntu, ElementaryOS), Windows XP/7/8/10  • Web Development: HTML, CSS, Javascript, RedDot Management Systems  • Software: Microsoft Office (Excel, PowerPoint, Word), Tableau, Prezi, PostgreSQL, Nmap,VirtualBox, Slic3r, Cura