Senior Systems Administrator/Director of Technical Services Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Director of Technical Services Tiffin, OH IT Professional with 20 plus years of experience in the IT industry.  Possess a wide range of skills across multiple platforms.  Software, hardware, storage, desktop, server and network experience  Hardworking, dependable and reliable.  Work well in a team atmosphere or independently.  Strong ability to adapt, learn and implement new technologies.  Possess tremendous aptitude and versatility.  MCSE Certified Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator/Director of Technical Services Tiffin University - Tiffin, OH February 2014 to Present Responsibilities  Windows servers 2003, 2008, 2012. Active Directory. SAN. VMWARE.  Cisco switches. Cisco Call Manager and Unity Voice mail. Cisco ASA Firewall,Cisco Wireless controllers. EMC VNX,Data Domain and Networker.  Upgraded several Windows 2003 servers to Windows 2008 and Windows 2012. Deployed several Cisco network switches and implemented 10g backbone connections to 5 campus wiring closets. Managed EMC Networker Data Domain. Converted several physical servers to VMware virtual machines.Deployed wireless access points and configured several wireless networks. Deployed Unitrends backup appliance. Set up vSphere replication. Migration Engineer Shift Point - Mount Vernon, OH October 2013 to February 2014 Performed Windows 7 migrations and laptop and desktop computers from Windows XP utilizing the User State migration tool to backup user data and settings then restoring that data to a new computer running Windows 7. Verified presence of needed applications before returning the computer to the user. Computer Systems Administrator Lifetouch - Galion, OH Responsibilities  Tasked with maintaining a multi-server, multi-platform data center powered by 2 Liebert and 2 Powerware UPS battery backup units.   Responsible for the procurement, configuration and distribution of company smartphones.   Member of a 6 member team and provided support and training to users and other team members. Specifically new team members and interns.    Accomplishments  Successfully managed upwards of 300 Active Directory user accounts and 50 plus group accounts. Deployed and managed over 500 computer accounts consisting of both Windows servers and workstations.   Deployed, managed and migrated 6 MSSQL servers consisting of various versions such as MSSQL 6.5, 2000, 2005 and 2008.Implemented a combination 25 plus virtual machines in both VMWARE ESX and Hyper V environments. Converted 6 physical machines to virtual machines utilizing VMWARE Converter and Hyper V SCVMM.  Successfully integrated an inherited VMWARE infrastructure consisting of a 65 TB SAN, 2 ESX 4.1 servers and 5 Windows 2003 virtual servers into an existing data center.   Deployed 50 plus Windows 7 workstations to accommodate increase in production and call center support staff after a major acquisition that doubled our business.  Deployed a Smart Search Document management server which enabled the Order Entry department to process order documents electronically versus manually. Essentially increasing production output and saving time.  Eliminated production bottlenecks on a document management server by converting the physical server to a virtual server and splitting processes between the physical and virtual server. This also created a level of redundancy.  Converted 2 physical image storage servers to virtual servers due to numerous SAN hard disk failures. In essence saving 20TB worth of image data by migrating that data to a separate SAN.  Created several Windows XP virtual machines in order to continue using a Microsoft Access 97 database essentially delaying the need for additional software license purchases.  Instrumental in deploying 40 plus PCI hardened workstations insuring plant wide PCI compliance. Education Associate in IT Westwood College Online - Denver, CO 2013 to 2015 U.S. Naval Electronics Technician School - San Diego, CA August 1987 to May 1988 Diploma Colonel Crawford High School - North Robinson, OH September 1982 to June 1986 Skills Service Desk, Helpdesk Support, Desktop Support, Help Desk, Tech Support, Wireless (5 years), Vmware (6 years), Networking (5 years), Active Directory (10+ years) Military Service Branch: Navy Service Country: United States Rank: ET2 Additional Information Computer Skills    Hardware    Dell PowerEdge servers. Dell OptiPlex workstations. Oracle Pillar Axiom SANS. HP Network printers. HP, Cisco, 3com Network Switches. External and internal RAID arrays. Network cabling and patch panels. PBX and phones. Wireless routers. Dell, Quantum and HP DLT, LTO, DDS multi slot tape library. Android and iOS smartphones. Wireless controllers and APs.     Software    Windows 2000, 2003, 2008,20012 and NT 4.0 server. Windows XP Pro and Windows 7 Pro. MSSQL server 6.5, 2000, 2005 and 2008. Microsoft Office 2003 and 2007. VMWARE and Hyper V. Kronos Gatekeeper and Timekeeper. Honeywell NSTAR access control. Symantec Backup Exec. Symantec Endpoint Protection. Symantec Ghost. WSUS, DHCP, WINS, RDP, MMC. MSSQL Management Studio. VMWARE Sphere. VI Center. Unix Networker Backup. Smart Search. Asure ID. Visio. Audit Wizard.  Cisco Call Manager and Unity. Meraki cloud dashboard.