IT SYSTEMS SPECIALIST IT <span class="hl">SYSTEMS</span> SPECIALIST IT SYSTEMS SPECIALIST - NANMCKAY & ASSOCIATES Berkeley, IL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT SYSTEMS SPECIALIST NANMCKAY & ASSOCIATES June 2016 to Present • Create and modify ad-hocs, pivot tables, charts, and graphs in excel for upper management.  • Train management and staff on how to navigate through Salesforce and Yardi 6.0  • Analyze data in SQL and Yardi to identify trends and errors in data.  • Collaborate with analysts to complete monthly reports such as SEMAP.  • Maintain SharePoint including creating users and maintaining workflow.  • Assisted in Nan McKay & Chicago's Housing Authority SharePoint upgrade.  • Performed managerial tasks while manager was out on leave.  • Administer multiple systems and monitor employee use, critically examining and identifying training opportunities for employees.  • Assists NMA staff in implementing solutions for printing, internet, and general computer problems.  • Processes all new hire, termination, and access request paperwork in a timely and well tracked manner.  • Assists staff in the use and functionality of Yardi/iFile/Connect/ as necessary.  • Administers, organizes and maintains the wiki site.  • Lieutenant Administrator for the NMA SharePoint tracking site.  • Reviews, Processes and Collects data for PIC/EIV access in a timely and accurate manner.  • Develop and maintain a variety of reports using information gathered from multiple sources.  • Analyze data and recommend solutions for business process improvement.  • Document and update program policies, procedures and workflows as required.  • Critically evaluate information gathered from multiple sources.  • Explain reports and recommendations to multiple audiences.  • Performed additional tasks as needed. System Administrator BOYS & GIRL CLUB OF AMERICA November 2010 to May 2016 • Monitor the system for equipment failure or errors in performance.  • Respond to program error messages by finding, correcting, and/or terminating program.  • Notify supervisor or computer maintenance technicians of equipment malfunctions.  • Record information such as computer operating time, problems that have occurred, and actions taken.  • Retrieve, separate, and sort program output as needed, and send data to specified users.  • Install new computers from PC's to Mac computers.  • Analyze troubleshooting issues by working layer 1 to layer 7 if needed.  • Solving Network problems as needed. Additional Information SKILLS  • Microsoft Excel & Visio  • Sharepoint Designer  • Java Script  • C++  • Visual Studios    • SalesForce  • SQL  • Yardi 6.0 & 7S  • Connect 5 & Ifile  • Ad-Hocs