Sr. SCCM Administrator Sr. SCCM <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. SCCM Administrator - Exchange AAFES Cleveland, OH Work Experience Sr. SCCM Administrator Exchange AAFES June 2017 to Present • Use System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM) to automate deployments and software configurations for 14,700 workstations.  • Assisted in migration from SCCM 2007 to SCCM 2012 documentation, analysis, creation and maintenance of the company's computer systems.  • Plan and implement SCCM infrastructure changes including off-site/remote imaging, distribution points and management points, boundary groups and assignments, site settings and roles  • Created collections in SCCM and deployed software through task sequence.  • Implemented SCCM Application catalog to provide applications to user's on-demand.  • Establish and follow strict protocol for change requests and application deployments in production environment.  • Troubleshooting applications capture issues during sequencing and while streaming to the clients  • Provide detailed troubleshooting for all aspects of SCCM environment.  • Supports the operation and maintenance of System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM) 2012 corporate infrastructure. Installs, upgrades, and patches operating systems and complex software packages  • Utilize software metering tools to analyze current software usage and trend analysis to provide accurate information for software licensing needs  • Created Driver packages for Different hardware Sr. System Engineer Pegasus Info Tech - Dallas, TX April 2014 to December 2016 • Implemented SCCM Application catalog to provide applications to user's on-demand.  • Provide guidance and support for team that use SCCM for application deployment and OSD for workstation.  • Provided 3rd level infrastructure support, and assisted in the maintenance and troubleshooting of SCCM, and client workstations; possess good understanding of the SCCM infrastructure including boundaries, site server roles, and parent/child relationships in order to troubleshoot SCCM related issues  • Administered SCCM 2012 R2 systems (Config. Manager and Site servers), Production and Test.  • Managed day to day activities for SCCM 2012 R2; Set up collections for software and security update delivery to test/production systems, assisted packaging team with creating and configuring rules for software applications, troubleshooting non-compliant clients.  • Application and solution packaging for SCCM deployment utilizing industry tools such as AdminStudio - with detailed understanding of command line parameters, rules on installing, task sequence deployment with multiple components and steps in between, etc.  • Completes system backups, archiving, and disaster recovery processes as necessary.  • Maintains the inventory management of software licenses, software, hardware and other IT Products.  • Develops and conducts various training and instruction for system users on operating systems and other applications assists users in maximizing use of networks and computing systems. Systems Engineer Celanese - Dallas, TX July 2013 to March 2014 • Good knowledge in ITIL Process i.e., incident, Change and Problem Management end-to-end management of SCCM Hierarchy.  • Managing Central site with 5 Secondary sites and 300 BDPs with 1200+ total clients more than 300 Geographical Locations.  • SCCM 2007 administration and operations Support.  • Software Distribution in Configuration Manager.  • Microsoft Key Management Service (KMS) implemented.  • Software Updates in Configuration Manager.  • Creating Collections as required based on direct and query based.  • Desired Configuration Management Client Agent configuring as required  • Reporting in Configuration Manager.  • SQL Reporting Services in Configuration Manager 2007 R2.  • Installing SCCM Dashboard & creating custom dashboard queries.  • In-depth troubleshooting of Hardware Inventory, Software Inventory, SCCM Client Installation, Software Distribution, Patch management for root cause analysis  • Generating Custom reports with strong SQL Queries  • Integration of SCCM / SMS environment with Active Directory  • Installation and Configuration of SMS primary and secondary sites at different locations for Patch management, Software Distribution, Hardware/Software Inventory and Software Metering.  • Implementation of SUP server & SCCM server  • Patch management, scanning systems for security configuration using Microsoft baseline security analyzer (MBSA).  • Troubleshooting the SCCM servers in case of failures. System Engineer Boardwalk - Houston, TX May 2012 to June 2013 • Repackaged legacy applications in Windows Installer format.  • Created Transforms for vendor based applications that were already in MSI format.  • Used WSE script to create custom wraps.  • Used VM-Ware to create virtual machines to test packaged applications.  • Used Process Monitor to check for possible Compatibility issues.  • Maintaining the SCCM 2007 R2 Hierarchy.  • Distribution of Software with SMS / SCCM 2007.  • Experience in rearranging Application Catalog into different categories depends on the requirement.  • Accomplished Centralized distribution of packages using SCCM 2007.  • Domain and Local accounts, Cross domain authentications are managed by Active Directory.  • Packaged applications are managed by Group Policy and Deployed by SCCM Tool.  • Onsite client Management, Problem Solving, and support for the implemented packages.  • Fast paced environment with package a day ratio of work.  • Test packages in a lab based environment by pushing them via SCCM. NAS/ Systems Administrator Weyerhaeuser - Seattle, WA December 2009 to April 2011 • Configured the Jump Start installations of Solaris over the Network.  • Configuring and testing of TCP/IP based servers like DNS, DHCP, and NFS services.  • Created Aggregates, Volumes, Qtree, and configured CIFS, & NFS for Windows/Unix/Mac hosts, managed and administrated Hitachi AMS 2300 & AMS 2500 models.  • Storage Provisioning on Hitachi AMS arrays through Storage Navigator Modular.  • Configured System Drives on HNAS and setup preferred path.  • Worked with Netapp vendors and involved POC Sessions for C- Mode  • Have good Knowledge on NetApp C- Mode  • Configured and modified Quotas as per the user request.  • Migrated data in between NAS Volumes using Vol Copy and NDMP Copy  • Configured NAS Aggregates (RAID4, RAID-DP), Volumes and file systems  • Scheduled snapshots on Flex Volumes as per the customer's requirement.  • Making resource available like memory and CPUs and increasing the swap.  • Monitoring Disk Activity, logs, checking for free space and removed temporary Core files.  • Planning and creating the data volumes, File systems, and mount points on large scale with the help of Shell scripts.  • Re-configured the servers by upgrading the operating system software on HP PA-RISC and Sun servers.  • NIS & NFS administration for all users accounts.