Systems Technician <span class="hl">Systems</span> Technician Systems Technician Denver, CO Work Experience Systems Technician Marriott International, Inc. - Denver, CO October 2018 to Present Developed best practices and knowledge centers for implementing resort technology. Actively engaged in interdepartmental operations to ensure convention groups and guests enjoy flawless service. Ensured 30 virtual servers, point of sales systems and network monitoring systems are functioning properly.     Special projects: Rapid deployment of workstations and laptops for human resource's mass hire weekend event resulting in the arrival of 1000+ prospective employees.  Coordinated the VOIP migration to a new carrier.   Tracked and configured various key encoders and point of sales systems for opening day.    Major accomplishments:   Grand opening of Gaylord Resort and Convention Center was the most successful in brand history  Department met $1 million technology sales goal for first quarter  Partnership with vendors to ensure they meet service level agreements Operations Engineer Google - Mountain View, CA August 2015 to July 2017 Technical Advising: Traveled to six distinct Google campuses ranging in sizes of 2000-3000 employees to optimize their workflow while providing excellent customer service.  • Identified areas for process improvement utilizing cloud infrastructure and served as a point of contact for more than 10000 interactions.  • Educated employees on business rules for storing company data, external software policies, and adjusting account permissions for shared devices.    Network Troubleshooting: Adjusted VLANs for workstations, conference room equipment, printers and access points as necessary.  • Partnered with the YouTube headquarters' operations team to relocate and configure 4 digital displays for the YouTube lobby.  • Reviewed heatmaps, updated facility diagrams and collected wireless diagnostic data for malfunctioning access points.    Information Security: Reviewed third party software exception requests, sandboxed questionable programs, and assisted with installation.  • Engaged with technical writers to ensure documentation was current with the latest infrastructure changes and information security policies.  • Modified user account permissions and code lists for devices requiring test environments.    Key Accomplishments: Provided viable solutions in a fast paced, rapidly changing environment for multiple teams and devices.  • Assisted Seattle Operations team in restoring campus operations after a major power outage which resulted in $10,000 worth of damage.  • Coordinated the removal and shipment of deprecated network devices worth 300,000 dollars. System Administrator UTSA - San Antonio, TX September 2013 to May 2015 • Provisioned user accounts and assigned virtual machines for 200 information assurance majors.  • Continuously updated internal documentation and educated new hires.  • Performed weekly backups of server data. System Administrator Indus Corporation - San Antonio, TX October 2011 to August 2012 • Escalated and triaged network outages to the network operations center.  • Remotely assisted client service technicians with workstation domain joins.  • Adjusted account permissions and security group memberships for eighty Air Force bases.    Denver, CO (210) 385-8619 https://www.linkedin.com/in/jacosta2/ jgacosta2@gmail.com Education MS Information Technology in Information Technology University of Texas at San Antonio - San Antonio, TX BA in Linguistics University of Texas at Austin - Austin, TX Skills INFORMATION SECURITY (2 years), KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT (4 years), WORKFLOW (3 years), ENCRYPTION (3 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jacosta2 Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: CPL Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating Systems: Windows 7/10, Mac OS, Ubuntu, Chrome OS, Android  Workflow Tools: Google Issue Tracker, Remedy, Microsoft Office 365, Visio  Platform Hardening: Carbon Black, Santa, MacPushy, Simian, Puppet  Information Security: Firewalls, Vulnerability Management, Encryption, Risk Management  Additional: Project Management, Root Cause Analysis, Knowledge Management, Network Security