Senior Systems Administrator & Data Analyst Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> &amp; Data Analyst Senior Systems Administrator & Data Analyst - Brunswick Company Bertha, MN ? A hard working experienced data management professional, with a love for interpersonal interaction.  ? I have over 5 years business data analysis and data collection experience.  ? I possess excellent written and verbal communication skills and a keen eye for details  ? Over a decade of experience fostering relationships with corporate IT collaborators, coworkers, vendors, and leadership groups.  ? Exceptionally well organized, proactive and goal-oriented. Keen to engage in professional challenges and new projects.    I would love to help a business improve and grow by providing them with the tools and resources necessary to make changes, save money, and improve their business all while making a positive impact for the common good. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator & Data Analyst Brunswick Company - New York Mills, MN 2012 to Present Collaborated with corporate IT to redesign an enterprise wide web-based quality data collection system.  • Trained Power User in SAP Business Objects universe queries, reports, charts, and daily scheduled reports  • Highly proficient in Microsoft Office Suite(Access, Word, Excel, Powerpoint) including VBA macros  • Perform Tableau root cause analysis on historical business data to identify improvement opportunities  • Experienced in data collection, mining, and query building for visual representation of business data.  • Certified as a Lean Six Sigma Green Belt through execution of business improvement projects Sales McKay's Dodge - Waite Park, MN 2011 to 2012 Identified, procured and implemented Intuit Quickbooks to manage inventory, analyze sales and profit monthly as part of managing the business  • Scheduled appointments for clients, received walk-in customers and handled customer payment  • Managed the client experience-Answered questions, eased anxieties and created a positive experience  • Designed and placed ads and performed analysis on ad revenue Education Bachelor's in industrial Engineering University of Southern Mi - Hattiesburg, MS January 2019 to December 2021 Business Administration MState Technical College Skills Data Analysis, Tableau, Excel, Data Entry, Business Intelligence, access, testing, Microsoft Office, MS Office, SQL, Powerpoint, SAP Certifications/Licenses Green Belt Present