IT Systems Administrator IT <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Systems Administrator San Antonio, TX Experienced IT Systems Administrator with four years managing multiple software systems as the lead  on-site technician. Energized by a fast-paced environment with the ever-changing world of Work Experience IT Systems Administrator Codilis & Stawiarski, PC March 2015 to February 2019 Reporting to Information Technology Director    • Managed day to day IT operations, including directing administrative computing staff, networking, user services, remote support, telecommunications, and troubleshooting.  • Authored policies and procedure fro departmental requirements to ensure security and network  health.  • Served as relationship manager negotiating and managing IT vendor contracts. Also developed  proposals for IT-related projects and served as IT lead throughout subsequent execution and implementation.  • Developed company process guidelines, procedure and best practices including business  continuity and disaster recovery plans. Authored with management; IT Polices and implemented  those policies through training in a classroom environment.  • Developed program documentation, data management plan, asset management, testing  strategy, and security plans.  • Led and facilitated large office move from one site to another, including mapped setup of server  room; installation of server, racks, and mounting kits; and coordination with contractors  regarding placement of ports, equipment, and cable routes. Supervised a team of employees in the breakdown, transportation and reassembly of all PC equipment.  • Responsible for all on boarding of all new employees including training employees across multiple departments on network operations including log-in procedures, network management  software, permissions, printing issues, security and use of software including the creation of audit files that ensure compliance and meet regulatory requirements from new hires to  terminations.  • Experience in implementing and maintaining the following: VPN servers, WASP Mobile Asset for Inventory Management, anti-virus systems to network environments, Windows SCCM and Ninite,  Windows deployment software, web filtering appliances, print servers and systems, and securing  Windows servers with a variety of roles-Hyper-V, Domain Controllers, file servers, Application, and Database Servers.  • Responsible for the imaging and deployment of all systems encompassing a number of configurations across all departments.  • Consulted with client companies to provide Web-based and network solutions along with strategic planning and project leadership over systems migration, configuration, administration,  upgrades and troubleshooting initiatives.  • Lead a team that digitized thousands of physical files and millions of imagines saving the company 10's of thousands of dollars in storage fees and a multitude of resourses.  • Assisted in a number of client audits for the firm Proof of Claims Analyst Codilis & Stawiarski, PC October 2011 to March 2015 Reporting to the Bankruptcy Dept. Manager  • Helped develop more efficient processes in the Proof of Claims department across multiple  clients.  • Managed of multiple clients, requiring the development of multiple systems  • Filed claims for principal, interest, legal fees, and expense reimbursements with the appropriate  parties, as well as review and submission of invoices.  • Monitored bankruptcy plans for applicable loans in bankruptcy (including filing proof of claims, tracking of pre and post-petition payments, filing motions for relief, filing objections to  bankruptcy plans) Education Bachelors of Business Administration in Business Administration St. Mary's University 2008 Skills Disaster recovery, Active directory, Cisco, Exchange, Networking, Database, Oracle, Data management, Telephony, Voip, Contracts, Inventory, Audio visual, Estimation, Training, Mail server, Microsoft office, Windows xp, System Administrator, System Admin Assessments Technical Support — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/lpskycdsn1xd9ek8 Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/zjvegmzuxns4jedt Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/rc47mgmvp-scljlu Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.