Unix Administrator Unix <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Unix Administrator Charlotte, NC • More than 7 years of industry experience in leading Unix infrastructure team of System Engineers / Administrators on Solaris, Linux, Vmware..  • Extensive hands on Implementation, Administration and Troubleshooting experience on Sun Solaris, Linux and SAN EMC environments.  • Experience in production support, Data Center migration, application re-platforming • Extensively experienced with RHEL implementation through satellite server patching, yum repositories, kickstart • Experienced in studying the kernel performance issues using various utilities like top, prstat, vmstat, sar, etc • Proficient with configuring and maintaining NFS, DNS, NIS/NIS+, DHCP, SMTP, and Networking with TCP/IP.  • Worked extensively in Data Center migration and re-platforming projects for migrating servers, data and users.  • Experience is security remediation and server hardening for security audits • Well versed in production support, working with multi-terabyte storage using LVM, SVM, ZFS, Veritas Volume Manager and high-availability VCS and Sun cluster.  • Responsible for Centrify AD client installation in Unix environment and do adjoin.  • Responsible for day to day maintenance of the Active directory (Centrify) and vendor Coordination if required.  • Experienced in performance troubleshooting and tuning on network, kernel and OS level • Well versed with Change Control Board under ITIL premises Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Unix Administrator Windstream Communications - Twinsburg, OH December 2016 to December 2018 • Installed, configured and managed Solaris 10, 11 on Sun Enterprise systems, • Administered, maintained Red Hat Linux Release 5 and 6 (and some 7).  • Patching RHEL and Solaris servers with latest patch clusters.  • Data-center migration of more than 100 servers on Solaris + RHEL platforms • Firmware upgrades for Linux and Solaris Physical machines.  • Troubleshooting Hardware, Operating System Application & Network problems and performance issues.  • Configured and Administering Solaris and Linux Servers.  • Server Virtualization using VMWare ESX 5.x.  • Installation, configuration, troubleshooting, start, stop, upgrade and code deployments on all the production and testing servers.  • Mirrored volumes and used different RAID levels on Solaris and RHEL servers • Installing and configuration and maintenance of Veritas Netback up 4.5/5.1 and TSM • Implemented and configured Backup policies and Storage Units.  • Managing disk storage with Veritas Volume Manager 3.5/4.1 and Solaris Volume Manager with Veritas File System (VxFS).  • Written Shell Scripts to collect the System performance Information, account information on a daily basis.  • Implemented NIS and NFS for administrative and project requirements.  • Tuning the kernel parameters based on the application/database requirement.  • Configuring SUDO and granting root permission to users for performing certain activities.  • Monitoring System Performance - Virtual memory, System events, Swapping, Disk utilization, CPU utilization.  • Performing the automation using Chef Configuration management.  • Involved in chef infra maintenance including backup/monitoring/security fix.  • Installed and configured Veritas Cluster • Handling hardware failures with coordination of vendors.  • Implemented authentication tool Centrify AD in Current Environment and responsible to support the tool and coordinate with the Vendor..  • Experienced in build automation using Jenkins, Maven • Installed, configured multiple operating systems onsite and provisioned similar instances on AWS cloud.  • Performed all necessary day-to-day GIT support for different projects • Installed and configured Jenkins for Automating Deployments and providing an automation solution. AIG - Charlotte, NC August 2015 to November 2016 Unix Adminstrator.  • Worked on server builds in multiple environments such as DEV, UAT.  • Creating Templates of Linux machines on VMWare.  • Worked on BMC remedy ticketing tool, involved in solving certain tickets.  • Installation and configuration of Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 5x, 6x Servers on Dell Hardware and VMware virtual environment.  • Worked on system administration tools, Networking (LAN and WAN, ) UNIX, Load balancers, DNS, TCP/IP and Storage technologies.  • Performed Cloning of virtual machines in vmware.  • Resposible to take snapshots of linux virtual machines in case of a kernel panic can revert back the server to older version using snapshots.  • User addition, password management (expiration, ssh keys, etc) for Security Audits • Participated in DR exercises • Involved in major migrations from Solaris to RHEL.  • Worked with backup team to backup Linux servers using Netbackup • Configured and maintained NFS, NIS and DNS for sharing the file systems and the name resolutions.  • Management of Red Hat Linux user accounts, groups, directories, file permissions and sudo rules • Experience in providing day-to-day user administration like adding/deleting users and managing user's queries and maintained Server.  • Worked with Redhat Package Manager (RPM) and YUM • Creating File system and configure to available on network through NFS.  • Configured Linux servers as clients to satellite server to use it as repository server and used it for quarterly patching.  • Extensively worked on Configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible. Systems admin GCS Infotech - Bengaluru, Karnataka May 2011 to December 2014 • Upgraded Solaris 8 to 9 and 9 to 10 on sun servers and workstations. Added necessary patches using patch add utility and scripts.  • Experience in installation of Red Hat Enterprise Linux 4/5/6 on hardware like HP and Dell & Solaris 9, 10 operating systems on SPARC platforms.  • Installation and configuration of WebSphere and JBoss cluster (horizontal and vertical) on Solaris 10 and Red Hat Linux.  • Experienced in Creating user accounts, user administration, local and global groups on ESX and Red Hat Linux platform.  • Reviewing systems and application logs for troubleshooting. Managed disks and file systems using LVM on linux, kernel patching. Systems admin Srishti Software - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2010 to April 2011 • Maintaining Solaris 8.0, 9.0, RedHat Linux Servers.  • User management and maintenance using in-house developed Shell scripts • Building new servers using DVD and ISO methods • Providing Online Support for the Custom built Transcription Software in all the Offices to ensure productivity.  • Day to day administration of Unix environment using ticketing systems • Filesystem creation and maintenance using Veritas Volume Manager and SVM.  • Installed, upgraded, mirrored and configured RHEL 4.x and Sun Solaris 10/9.0/8.0 using Kickstart, Jumpstart installation respectively.  • Assisted in resolving hardware issues and network connectivity issues related to TCP/IP.  • Configured kick-start servers to install Red Hat Linux and VMware ESX on multiple machines.  • Proficient in patching RHEL and Solaris servers to recommended security levels. Maintaining and upgrading operating systems like RHEL Education B.TECH in IT, Electronics & Communication SRM University Chennai MSCS in Software Project Management Northwestern Polytechnic University California USA