Senior Systems Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Senior Systems Engineer - TUFTS MEDICAL CENTER Astoria, NY Work Experience Senior Systems Engineer TUFTS MEDICAL CENTER - Boston, MA 2013 to Present • Administrator for over 600 servers in physical and VMware virtual environment. Of the physical servers, responsibilities include server builds, racking, cabling and hardware troubleshooting. In the VMware environment, responsibilities include server builds and troubleshooting utilizing vSphere software.  • Conduct both virtual and physical server builds by working with Applications Analysts, vendors and hospital departments to determine their needs.  • Worked on major project to upgrade data center. What was once an 80% physical environment of mostly Windows 2003 servers is now over 90% virtual consisting of Windows 2008 and Windows 2012 servers. Currently in process of migrating entire server and storage environment to offsite co-location facility.  • Manage monthly Microsoft security patching using Shavlik software. Responsibilities include reviewing patches and determining which to apply, scheduling the patches, notifying affected departments, applying patches during overnight shift, and advising affected areas upon completion.  • Manage server backups and restores through Commvault management software.  • Administrator for over 200 printers throughout the hospital on four print servers. Responsibilities include printer installs and all troubleshooting.  • Manage Active Directory environment including setting up new accounts, managing groups, DNS, DHCP, and GPOs.  • Manage shared data on servers using AD security groups and share/NTFS permissions.  • Level 3 support for all server-related issues utilizing Remedy ticketing system.  • Part of 3 person 24/7 on-call rotation. Systems Engineer LOCKE LORD - New York, NY 2010 to 2013 • Support and maintain server infrastructure in NY office including hardware-based and VMware virtual machines with Windows 2003 and 2008 operating systems. Build servers from scratch and by utilizing P2V, ISO images and cloning within VMware.  • Provide full IT support for all attorneys and office staff, including hardware/software troubleshooting, server-side support utilizing Exchange and Active Directory, and printer installation/maintenance in a time-sensitive environment.  • Back up all servers in NY office using ArcServe software. Updated environment from r12 to r15 and instituted "dedup" D2D and D2T backups. Maintain onsite backup tape inventory.  • Created disaster recovery solution for multiple offices using Double-Take replication software. Installed and updated software, created and currently maintain replication sets, tested and documented failover and failback procedures. Successfully failed over all protected NY servers to Chicago during Hurricane Sandy resulting in no loss of productivity during week-long power outage.  • Participate in 24x7 on-call rotation providing third-level support for offices nationwide.  • Member of team responsible for upgrading the entire NY office to Windows 7 and Office 2010 over the course of a weekend. Completed project on-time and with minimal disruption to production environment. Assisted users as necessary to familiarize them with new OS and software.  • Full audio-visual setup and support of interoffice conferences. LAN Administrator STRATEGIC INSIGHT - New York, NY 2007 to 2010 • Designed and deployed a multi-server Citrix farm to replace individual Terminal Server. Delivered training to users on how to operate new software. Fully supported all aspects of Citrix. This resulted in a sharp reduction in production server downtime and increased employee efficiency.  • Coordinated technology component of company move to new offices. Simultaneously managed server move to offsite co-location facility. Ensured seamless employee transition to new environment.  • Built and maintained both physical and virtual servers. Converted most of existing server environment from physical to virtual using VMware.  • Provided PC/telephone support that included identifying and resolving client issues related to hardware, operating system, applications and voice mail communications. Managed tickets utilizing OnTime software.  • Managed all aspects of tape backups and restores critical to meeting the information needs of users across the organization. Archived all of the data on older ADR tapes to newer and larger VXA tapes.  • Performed troubleshooting and support of hardware and patching of OS/software within a physical and virtual server environment. Patched workstation environment utilizing Microsoft WSUS.  • Managed Symantec anti-virus software company-wide. Established monthly virus scans for all user PCs, maintaining logs to ensure all viruses are quarantined and/or removed.  • Developed and implemented IT policies and procedures to carry out daily IT functions throughout the organization. Documented these in step-by-step instructional documents.  • Managed database synchronization, updates, scans, defrags and critical patching for laptops loaned to employees for client presentations. Lead Technical Specialist EMPIRE BLUE CROSS BLUE SHIELD - Brooklyn, NY September 2003 to October 2007 • Served as a member of four-person team managing servers across 15 sites in the Northeast. Supported over 1,100 servers, including providing onsite support for over 400 servers at Brooklyn office.  • Installed, upgraded and maintained servers, operating systems and associated hardware and software.  • Performed monitoring, troubleshooting, configuration and repairs. Served as final escalation point, providing third-tier support. Part of 24x7 on-call technical staff.  • Maintained DNS, DHCP, and static IP addresses for all 15 corporate locations as well as carried out backup and restoration of data utilizing ArcServe BrightStor software.  • Led a project to configure and upgrade all servers from Windows NT to 2003 Server.  • Actively involved in recovery operations after corporate HQ was destroyed on 9/11. Restored more than 500 servers at Albany office. Ensured correct restoration of all data. Installed servers at four replacement offices. Established static IP addresses, installed print servers and managed databases. LAN Administrator EMPIRE BLUE CROSS BLUE SHIELD 1998 to 2003 Education B.S. in Marketing in Economics State University of New York at Albany - Albany, NY Skills System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory Certifications/Licenses Windows 2008 MCITP Present