AIX / Linux Systems Administrator AIX / Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> AIX / Linux Systems Administrator - Smile Brands Inc Laguna Niguel, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience AIX / Linux Systems Administrator Smile Brands Inc - Irvine, CA June 2017 to Present • Provide systems administration support for AIX p7 and p8 servers as well as Linux CentOS 6 and 7. Application support for their critical QSI application running on 300+ field servers running a mix of vmware.  • OS upgrades and server migrations using NIM installation along with VIO server management. Patching, firmware and hardware support for p7 and p8 hardware.  • SAN storage support for IBM Storwize v7000 & V3700 storage systems, IBM 2498 B40 SAN switches along with TSM backup support and management of IBM 3573 Tape Library. AIX Systems Administrator & Application Support Wells Fargo Dealer Services - Irvine, CA August 2015 to November 2016 • Provide AIX versions 6 and 7 systems administration, systems engineering and application integration for 200+ IBM/AIX servers in test, development and production environments for Wells Fargo Dealer Services.  • Provide systems support in all areas including server migrations, OS upgrades to version 7 and hardware support. Security and vulnerability remediation support using Hewlett Packard Server Automation HPSA scanning software.  • Provide application support for critical 24 x 7 Credit Revue Services application which provides online credit financing for Wells Fargo Home Loan mortgages and Auto Loans. AIX Systems Administrator Computer Sciences Corporation - Laguna Niguel, CA September 2004 to August 2015 • Provide AIX systems administration, systems engineering and application integration for IBM/AIX servers in test, development and production environments.  • Built, configured and administered p570, p670 & p770 LPARS in support of application development with the following applications: Oracle, DB2, Tivoli TSM, SAP, WebSphere, NetBackup and Veritas all on IBM/AIX platforms.  • Hands on experience with IBM Shark, EMC, Hitachi SAN Storage system and GPFS Cluster system.  • Provided systems support in all areas including server migrations, OS upgrades and hardware support.  • Completed infrastructure builds of test, development, production, and disaster recovery environments at our Western Data Center and Chicago Data Centers.  • Last 5 years supported The Boeing Company as part of the Unix Enhanced Services Team supporting production, test and development systems maintaining a 99.9% SLA. AIX Systems Administrator Computer Sciences Corporation - Reston, VA March 2002 to September 2004 • Provide AIX systems administration, systems engineering, and application integration on 400+ servers in multi-platform test, development and production environments.  • Built, configured, and administered Sun 280R and V120, Dell 2650 III, IBM P610 and P690 Regatta systems. Support multiple applications on multiple platforms including; Oracle, DB2, Informatica, WebSphere, Tivoli and Veritas running on Sun Solaris 8.0, Windows 2000 Advanced Server and IBM/AIX 5L.  • Supported Storage Area Network on Hitachi 9900 series and Backup support on Quantum ATL Tape Library.  • Moved over to Infrastructure Engineering Group managing operating systems and hardware on P690 Regatta systems. Team Lead on 84 server test environment build, which included; networking, operating system installs, hardware & network testing, and application integration on p690 Regatta systems. AIX / Unix Systems Administrator D3 Technologies, Inc - San Diego, CA May 1992 to January 2002 • Provided systems administration and application integration on 40+ Risc/6000 workstations and servers. Responsible for all electronic and tape data transmittal.  • Electronic connections include Internet, DSL, T1, IBM 3275, ISDN and modem formats.  • Responsible for data transfer procedures between different CAD systems and platforms. Responsible for data archival and restoration procedures.  • Responsible for all aspects of software testing, evaluations, and installations including reporting and tracking software bugs.  • Four years experience with Unigraphics, CATIA and CADAM systems administration, including IBM/AIX, VM, HP-UX and Sun Solaris. One year experience with Red Hat Linux, Samba Server, Apache Web Server and Windows 2000. Education Certificate University of California San Diego - San Diego, CA Associates Degree in Computer Information Science in Computer Information Science Coleman College - San Diego, CA Skills System Administrator, Linux, System Admin