Application Developer & Project Manager Application Developer &amp; Project Manager Web Developer / Frontend Developer Seattle, WA Focused on coding and developing software for responsive web pages for mobile and desktop applications, and online gaming platforms in order to build premium user interfaces and create the best user experience.    Skills    Object-oriented programming and creating software specifications from market, business and user-level requirements.  Developing online web applications and services by implementing software development technologies and frameworks including JavaScript, C#, HTML, CSS, React, Node, MongoDB.  Coding software features across software platforms and 3rd party APIs, mobile applications, web pages and data dashboards, while adapting to new programming languages and new development environments.  Collaborating with product managers, user experience designers, and senior software engineers to identify and eliminate product performance issues and continuously improve adoption, scalability and security of applications. Work Experience Application Developer & Project Manager Arthritis Foundation September 2016 to April 2019 I was responsible for improving our software infrastructure which included JIRA and GitHub administration, as well as assisting with the development of a new website and mobile  application.    ? Successfully managed our mobile applications (iOS and Android) to ensure availability and eliminate security  issues.  ? Effectively led the application development efforts for Arthritis Foundation Car Show web registration platform.  ? Managed the migration of our data services and field offices to Skype For Business from Cisco and telco systems.  ? Architected our entire Office 365 infrastructure and synchronized our Active Directory database to AzureAD with the assistance of the Microsoft Fast Track team. Systems Administrator Arthritis Foundation February 2006 to September 2016 I was responsible for managing the IT environment for over 700 users which included centralizing our hardware and software systems for easier management of our data.    ? Successfully developed new system features, integrated and administered upgrades in our virtual environment.  ? Led the software and system development for platform migration and also Single Sign On project involving OKTA.  ? Assisted in the upgrade of domain controllers and member servers, which included training staff on new systems. Skills C#, CODING, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, OBJECT-ORIENTED PROGRAMMING, SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT, MONGODB, CSS, USER EXPERIENCE, REACT Links http://ww.linkedin.com/in/oasis-rim http://github.com/oasisrim Groups Gamkedo Game Club September 2016 to December 2017 Gamkedo is an online game development club where software developers collaboratively pitch ideas and build games.  Software Developer – I pitched and led the design and development of 2 games (K etch Me If You Can & Roman’s  Adventure ) using HTML and JavaScript for 2D games and Unity for 3D games - Full list of the games can be found at https://www.gamkedo.com/ Seattle JS Hackers April 2019 to Present Local Javascript developer meetup group that focuses on group coding activities from coding katas to working on personal projects with fellow developers. Meetings are multiple times a month.