Director of IT Systems Director of IT <span class="hl">Systems</span> Director of IT Systems - Fringe Benefit Group • Director of IT Systems with over 18 years of experience managing networks and information systems, and over 10 years of managerial experience. Establishes, plans, and administers the overall policies and goals for the information technology department. Analyzes the needs of different departments and determines ways to meet business objectives by modifying existing or developing new information processing systems. Creates functional strategies and specific objectives for the sub-function and develops budgets/policies/procedures to support the functional infrastructure. Work Experience Director of IT Systems Fringe Benefit Group March 2015 to Present Establishes, plans, and administers the overall policies and goals for the information technology department. Analyzes the needs of different departments and determines ways to meet business objectives by modifying existing or developing new information processing systems. Being an Information Technology Director manages the research and selection of IT equipment, applications, and supplies.  • Manage systems and infrastructure team responsible for over 2 Billion dollars of retirement assets.  • Designed and maintains a hybrid network and systems environment consisting of VMware host and Microsoft Azure cloud servers.  • Developed and implemented enterprise solutions such as Microsoft Dynamics CRM, Sharepoint, Salesforce, and Microsoft Remote Desktop Services.  • Developed and implemented migration strategies to migrate enterprise email to Office 365.  • Designed and implemented enterprise disaster recovery and business continuity plan.  • Designed and implemented new security strategy consisting of Carbon Black Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR), iSensor IDS/IPS, and Dell Secureworks 24/7 Monitoring. Senior Systems Administrator Fringe Benefit Group September 2013 to March 2015 Responsible for daily administration of a network/server environment. Installs, configures and maintains system software. Monitors network performance, troubleshoots more complex issues and deploys solutions. Plans and implements upgrades, patches, and installation of new applications and equipment. Creates and maintains a disaster recovery, security and DR/BCP plan and policy. May conduct evaluation of new technologies to optimize network efficiency and performance.  • Manage systems and infrastructure to support over 2 Billion dollars of retirement assets.  • Developed and implemented migration strategies to migrate enterprise to Mitel Phone system.  • Migrated on premise infrastructure to a hybrid network and systems environment consisting of VMWare host and Microsoft Azure cloud servers.  • Developed and maintained business backup strategy. Senior Support Engineer Visual Click Software April 2012 to September 2013 Configures monitoring and auditing within Windows 2008 and Windows 2003 server environments. Creates custom software applets to help System Administrators manage and delegate Active Directory management.  • Tests and implements 3 new products and over 50 revisions of the associated software. QA engineer for all versions to include the 4.4L currently being utilized by over 3000 customers.  • Located and resolved multiple problems and created fixes for 99% of identified issues prior to production of the product.  • Manage a multi ESXi server test environment consisting of 3 forest and multiple child domains. Ensuring that all domain services e.g. DNS, DHCP, AD, Group Policy, and Exchange ran without any downtime.  • Designed and implemented new product logos\website to help increase marketing.  • Was responsible for the marketing research to develop multiple add ons to make our product more up to date/ marketable. e.g report emails and up to date product interface design. Team Chief US Army June 2009 to February 2012 Managed a team of 7 employees that administered maintained, and monitored a network consisting of over 1000 workstations. Designated schedules for work orders based on manpower available, equipment, and customer's desire to minimize downtime.  • Senior information security assurance officer for an organization of over 1500 employees.  • Conducted presentations and training to groups as large as 500 personnel on personal and network security.  • Established and maintained organization webpage using JAVA, DHTML, and HTML to ensure employees and general public would be informed on current events. Senior Network Administrator US Army July 2005 to May 2009 Managed 3 teams of 4 employees that administered, maintained, and monitored 3 separate networks consisting of over 10,000 workstations. Briefed Chief Executive Officer and other members of management on network status, projects, and network security protocols. Provided guidance to network administrators working in satellite organizations to ensure compliance with network protocol and Headquarters guidance.  • Built and deployed a forest server suite with full Active Directory and Exchange capabilities from scratch within 18 hours to support ongoing Military operations.  • Maintained Novell eDirectory administration in a fluid, changing environment. Network Administrator US Army January 2002 to June 2005 Worked as an integral member of a team that supported an organization of over 10,000 work stations. Provided timely customer service to users with 99% resolution of reported problems. Receptive to client feedback to improve quality of work.  • Gained firsthand experience with various protocols such as DNS, SMTP, SMB, VPN, HTTP, and DHCP.  • Performed network administration duties with senior management to minimize disruption to work.