Clark County Clark County Temp - Systems Tech Las Vegas, NV Dedicated, detail-focused IT Professional with expertise in Windows-based environments, networking and Servers. A natural leader and mentor. Known for the capacity to analyze issues, expedite innovative solutions, and build the type of consensus-driven environment that contributes to highly successful teams. Recognized for organizational, problem solving, management, interpersonal, and communication skills. Outstanding customer service skills resolving technical issues and educating end-users.    While at Rhodes Homes:  Configured, deployed and maintained McAfee EPolicy Orchestrator.  Configured, deployed and maintained EMC AX150 SAN environment for network storage.  Configured, deployed and maintained Citrix Presentation Server Configured applications set up load balancing, printing on citrix farm. Implemented XenServer Virtual server environment.  Developed back-up strategy for Rhodes Homes using Backup Exec 11d on an Exabyte Magnum library.  Restored Exchange server 2003 and Active Directory after catastrophic hardware failures from backups.  Configured and Deployed MS SQL 2005 server and migrated applications from MS SQL 2000 server.  Developed and deployed open source trouble ticket/helpdesk solution.  Developed corporate image system for desktop deployment using NLite and Ghost server suite 1.1. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Clark County Systems Tech May 2018 to Present Installing and configuring standard Hardware and Software (Dell Optiplex and Latitude) Sierra Tech Kaeppel Consulting IT Tech - Las Vegas, NV October 2017 to June 2018 Technical Staffing Agency's. Various short term projects including Windows 10 migration, Laptop upgrades POS installs, MS server upgrade and Installs; printer maintenance Helpdesk tech support. Systems Administrator PETER LIK - Las Vegas, NV July 2012 to September 2017 Support multiple sites Maintained MS Servers VMware Virtual Environments Windows and MAC desktops Servers Including MS Exchange MS Server Magento POS systems Greatplains Accounting and Manufacturing  Zoho and Salesforce Offsite Storage replication Print Services SonicWALL, VPN Extreme Routers and switches provided technical support for the management of Internet and Intranet services within the company Maintained inventory and inventory control of hardware, software, licenses, and appropriate  documentation. Microsoft MDT 2010 to 2013 imaging, Microsoft Windows 7 and 10, Microsoft Office Suite 2010 and 2013  Microsoft Administration Intermediate level Network Infrastructure, Troubleshooting Equipment  Documentation of technical procedures, Asset tracking and inventory management, Working under deadlines. Manager / Owner Microsoft MDT - Las Vegas, NV September 2010 to June 2012 Support multiple small businesses, software and hardware, provide on-site technical support on workstations and networks; develop back-up strategies, POS installs and upgrades; perform printer maintenance; install Ethernet cables, patch panels, routers and switches. Systems Administrator RHODES HOMES - Las Vegas, NV July 2004 to August 2010 Maintained and supported multi-site LAN comprised of more than 250 workstations, including clients interfacing with various server platforms (Windows Server 2003), networked printing, and stand-alone workstations.  Designed, developed, implemented and supported the networking requirements of the company including Intranets and gateways/routers to offsite locations.  Provided technical support for the management of Internet and Intranet services within the company; implemented, maintained, and supported office management productivity tools, such as Microsoft Exchange, Microsoft Office, and various proprietary hardware and software platforms (Timberline, BuilderMT, Builder1440).  Charged with the responsibility of performing the design, implementation, and management of the company disaster recovery, companywide backup strategy, Local Area Network (LAN), LAN related hardware, and client-server based software.  Performed as liaison between the technology group and other groups within the company, consulting on issues such as compatibility, purchasing, installation, implementation and other related technology issues.  Maintained inventory and inventory control of hardware, software, licenses, and appropriate documentation. Systems Administrator/ IT Manager INTERTECH - Las Vegas, NV January 2000 to June 2004 Managed daily company operations and client accounts.  Responsible for hardware and software system configuration, installation, repair and maintenance on Microsoft and Novell networks, PCs and printers.  Managed team with diverse backgrounds to consistently provide increased customer satisfaction and system performance.  Designed, configured and installed Microsoft Networks and PC systems.  Provided technical and cost considerations for proposals to satisfy customers.  Sourced vendors and provided on-site technical support on workstations and networks.  Used floor plans to design schematic drawings, determine the length of voice/data cables to be pulled.  Supervised crews of 2 to 3 technicians Label, pull, terminate, test, label and properly secure and strain relief cable (copper and fiber optic) installed in ceilings, walls, floors and raceways.  Used floor plans to design schematic drawings; terminate various types of cable (copper and fiber optic) at determined locations through the use of color coding, proper methodology/training.  Organized, laced, and terminated various voice/data cables of distribution frames i.e. 110, 66 blocks.  Tested every newly installed or relocated cable in accordance with established industry standards and procedures.  Major Client Accounts: City of Las Vegas, St. Rose Hospitals, Nellis AFB, Las Vegas Fire Dept. and Countrywide Financial. Senior Workstation Specialist Health Alliance Plan - Detroit, MI 1997 to 1999 Lead Systems Technician Imagineering Systems Las Vegas, NV 1995 to 1996 Slot Tech/Swing Lead Stations Inc - Las Vegas, NV 1991 to 1995 Electronics Tech Rainier Tech - Seattle, WA 1989 to 1991 Systems Tech IGT - Las Vegas, NV 1987 to 1989 Education Anthropology, Film Documentary MESA COLLEGE - Mesa, AZ Technology Oki University LED Technology Skills EXCHANGE (10+ years), MICROSOFT OFFICE (10+ years), MS OFFICE (10+ years), LAN (10+ years), MICROSOFT EXCHANGE (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE    Information Technology - Database, Desktop Support, Internet, IT Consulting, IT Operations, Network,  Systems Design, Tech Management.    Wireless Networking, Ethernet, Optical Networking, VPNs, LAN/WAN/MAN TCP/IP Protocol, IP Addressing, IP Access Lists, Routing Protocols, Token Ring, ATM, Frame Relay HP OpenView, Microsoft Visio, Remote Desktop Management Windows Enterprise Server, Small Business Server and Workstation NT to 2016 Exchange 5.5 to 2013 Solar Winds Network and System Management. Dameware Remote.  Microsoft Office 2007/2010/2013, Network Security, Citrix Servers Cisco series routers, Cisco Catalyst series Cisco, PIX Firewall, Procurve Routers, IBM Workstations and Servers, HP Workstations and Servers, Dell Workstations and Servers, Microsoft Windows (all versions), Novell 3.1-4.1, Microsoft Exchange Microsoft Office, AutoCAD, ISA Server RAID Storage Devices SAN Storage Devices MS ISA Server.MS SharePoint Citrix Presentation Server Zen Server Sage Timberline Office, BuilderMT, Builder 1440, Punchlist Manager. Bna, Piracle, MS IIS 6.0, 7.0. Apache Tomcat 5.0.27, JBoss, Firebird SQL, Pervasive    Enterprise software (Rhodes Homes):  MS Server 2003, MS SQL Server, MS Exchange Server, MS ISA Server.  Sage Timberline Office, BuilderMT, Builder 1440, Punchlist Manager.  Bna, Piracle, MS Office Suites, MS SharePoint, MS IIS 6.0.  Apache Tomcat 5.0.27, JBoss, Firebird SQL, Pervasive SQL.