Administration/Financial Modeler & Consultant Administration/Financial Modeler &amp; Consultant Administration/Financial Modeler & Consultant San Francisco Bay Area, CA • Offering 20+ years of progressive achievement implementing and administrating financial reporting solutions for a diverse range of clients and companies within fast paced, dynamic environments.  • Combines expertise in financial modeling and planning with expert Excel, Access, VBA, Power Query, Power Pivot skills to provide analysis of variances for revenue, headcount, capital expenditures, COGS, and project management  • Solid history of achievement in guiding business processes, while designing comprehensive budget and forecasting models which provide management with an effective tool to view and analyze current financial metrics.  • Proven history of extracting, transforming, and loading data, including allocations, management reporting adjustments and Data conversions when implementing new systems (including ERP).  • Dedicated self-starter; effectively collaborates with diverse groups, adeptly communicates with team members, and quickly learns and utilizes emerging technologies to accomplish tasks.    • Areas of Expertise:  • Expert Excel, VBA & Access Skills  • Budget & Forecast Solutions  • BPC Report Writing (NW & MS)  • BPC Administration (MS)  • FP&A, Sales, HR, and IT Support  • Statutory & Management Reporting  • Process Improvements  • SQL Skills  • Financial Modeling  • ETL skills for Developing Models  • Documentation & Reporting  • Project Management  • Cross-team Collaboration  • Power Query, PowerPivot & PowerBI Work Experience Administration/Financial Modeler & Consultant San Francisco Bay Area, CA 2011 to 2019 Member of multiple projects to provide EPM solutions to a variety of clients; supervised the creation of budgeting/forecast models to analyze operational trends in support of efforts to evaluate performance, metrics, and other operational standards. Continuing focus to drive technology integration and improvements with establishment of effective business systems processes.  Selected Accomplishments:  • Provided 3 years of admin services for BPC client including model development and implementing updates and enhancements.  • Created headcount model to allow capture of employee information and provide for transfer of employees during planning cycle.  • Spearheaded efforts to develop and deliver a complex daily sales report for each salesman which was utilized by the sales team to review both current and historical sales results with future planning targets.  • Made significant improvements to capital expenditure model by increasing accuracy and extending model calculation from 3 years to 5 years.  • Hold bottom-line accountability for managing and optimizing a service team that provides clients a BPC "cloud" administrator to assist in performing monthly processes.  • Applied expertise and extensive experience delivering internal training to FP&A team and end-users for budgeting & planning and offering guidance of best practices including documenting processes. Business Systems Analyst Risk Management Solutions - Newark, CA 2007 to 2011 Applied expert knowledge of financial planning, mastery of designing & implementing models, and leadership skills to develop a dynamic planning environment. Oversaw areas including long-range budgeting & forecasting for revenue, expenses, capital expenditures and headcount while supporting variance analysis techniques. Conducted ongoing quality assurance to ensure accuracy and consistency of data in support of internal and external clients.  Selected Accomplishments:  • Support Human Resources & Finance by creating an Access database for internal recruiting department to manage hiring requisitions for 5 years. Integrated with planning tools to capture employee costs for budgeting and forecasting. This model captured employee start dates, salary, incentive compensation % and fully loaded costs. Model also tracked status of current employees, new hires (either newly approved new hires), and provides for reporting of terminations. Tracks job position from approval thru recruiting process to hiring. This allows management a fully burdened cost for both annualized and prorated expenses. Model assists in calculation of replacement savings.  • Led project to convert planning processes to an automated solution which reduced consolidation and analysis time by over 50%. Developed Access db as the Consolidation Model. This model consolidated over 100 excel templates which contained detailed line items and descriptions. Model used Employee db above to spread employee costs by month requiring no management intervention. All employee related costs driven by automated processes. Designed drill-down tool to allow users to see details from GL and Revenue systems to support analysis.  • Developed Access model to facilitate sending stock option transaction information to option holders. Automated the sending of personalized emails to each employee.  • Team leader for implementing BPC for budgeting & planning.  • Developed a human capital reporting cube in BPC (Outlooksoft - OLAP) as part of implementation of BI and assisted other finance groups with the technical knowledge to develop other cubes. Financial Modeler & Analyst Sales Compensation Model & Autodesk, Inc - San Rafael, CA 2006 to 2006 Financial Systems Administrator Macromedia - San Francisco, CA 2001 to 2005 Made key contributions to the yearly budgeting process including loading and reconciling data, supporting end users, creating and maintaining planning forms and reporting templates. Managed team to create and maintain system documentation, logs, work instructions and procedures. Championed the use of standardized written procedures and workflows. Fully accountable for planning, scheduling, performing systems improvements, upgrades, reconfigurations, and patches.  Selected Accomplishments:  • Member of SAP implementation team which converted current system to SAP format.  • Recreated transactional data to rebuild prior 3 years of history in SAP  • Key member of data conversion team while implementing BPC  • Effectively devised a TM1 OLAP model for cost of sales analysis which assisted in improving Gross Margin percentages and facilitated accelerated write off material costs.  • Closely collaborated with the Corporate Finance Team to build an auditable model to quickly identify Internet Sales Tax Exposure for a proposed acquisition with the ability to be promptly updated with new information. Financial Systems Administrator Sales Compensation Model & Autodesk, Inc - San Rafael, CA 1992 to 2000 Skills OLAP, POWER BI, VBA, EXCEL, BI Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/wally-campbell