Senior Systems Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Senior Systems Engineer - PCC Structurals Fort Worth, TX Experienced IT professional with over 15 years in Network Engineering, Administration, Data Center Performance Monitoring, Capacity Planning, and IT Project Management. Detail oriented and able to assume responsibility as well as delegate effectively. This requires excellence in communicating with technical as well as non-technical customers. Able to adapt and assimilate new skills and information quickly. Work Experience Senior Systems Engineer PCC Structurals - Portland, OR 2015 to Present Infrastructure project architecture and implementation. Lead Virtualization Engineer. Server Provisioning and Administration. Azure Cloud implementation.    ? VMware patches and upgrades. Performance monitoring and capacity planning.  ? Server deployment automation. Build and maintain server OS templates.  ? SAN storage management. Deploy new Compellent FC and ISCSI SAN arrays, provision and monitor storage.  ? Virtualized Oracle and SQL database servers. Deploy virtualized SQL AlwaysOn clusters and Oracle DB VMs achieving a massive improvement in performance and reliability.  ? Active Directory Administration. DHCP, DNS, GPO and account administration.  ? Azure Backup Migrate legacy tape backups to cloud backups.  ? O365 administration Exchange, Skype, and SharePoint Online.  ? Airwatch mobile device management Desktop Virtualization Engineer ConocoPhillips - Bartlesville, OK 2013 to 2015 Architect and support corporate Citrix XenDesktop VDI infrastructure. Configure and maintain global Windows desktop build for Windows 7 and Windows 8 in SCCM 2012 R2 environment. Provide 3rd level user support for SCCM desktop build issues for over 30,000 desktops globally. Manage Office 365 and OneDrive.    ? Architect and maintain enterprise VDI infrastructure including the creation of custom vDisks to meet the varied needs of customers around the globe. Document procedures and educate end users. Build up and tear down VM's in vSphere for various POCs. Monitor vSphere environment to ensure optimal performance of the VDI environment. Develop PowerShell and PowerCLI scripts to automate VDI management tasks.  ? Support and maintain the corporate global desktop Windows build using MDT and SCCM. Use PowerShell and MS Orchestrator to automate OSD and routine tasks. Set hardware standards for desktops and personal computing devices. Senior Network Administrator Divison of Precision Cast Parts Corp - Portland, OR 2008 to 2013 Architect and support network infrastructure for 24/7 enterprise business operations. Responsibilities included Windows Server, Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, GPO's, Exchange, VMware, SQL Server, and Cisco network infrastructure. Provide level 3 support for escalated support tickets.  ? Performed iSCSI SAN installation and vSphere rollout at company sites across the US.  ? Virtualized 90% of legacy physical servers on VMware.  ? Upgrade network infrastructure replacing obsolete HP switch gear with Cisco 3750X access layer and 2960S distribution layer switches.  ? Deployed MS SQL 2008 Failover Cluster to support business critical application.  ? Deployed SharePoint 2007 farm to support division intranet projects. Network Systems Manager King Retail Solutions, Inc - Eugene, OR 2007 to 2008 Architected and maintained IT infrastructure. Create annual IT software and network infrastructure projects budget. Manage Help Desk staff and operations. Manage IT contracts and licensing. Maintain Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity plan.    ? Installed and managed EMC CX SAN.  ? Deployed VMware ESX server infrastructure Replace legacy HP servers to improve data center efficiency, consolidate hardware and reduce costs.  ? Upgraded network infrastructure with Cisco 2960 and 3750 switches and Cisco ASA firewall. Network Administrator King Retail Solutions, Inc - Eugene, OR 2003 to 2007 Administer voice and data networks. Propose IT budget. Implement infrastructure upgrades. Manage Help Desk employees. Track IT contracts and licensing. Maintain disaster recovery plan. Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, CITRIX, DHCP, NETWORK TROUBLESHOOTING Additional Information Technical skills  • Virtualization platforms: VMware  vSphere 3.5 - 6.7  • VDI: VMware Horizon 5 and 6. Citrix XenDesktop 5.6 - 7.7  • Storage Administration: Dell Compellent, Nutanix, HyperFlex and EMC CX. Fiber Channel and iSCSI connectivity.  • Network Infrastructure: Deploy and maintain Cisco routers, switches, and firewalls. Update IOS, Manage access lists, VLANs, port channels, trunking, network troubleshooting.  • Network Performance Monitoring: SolarWinds Orion NPM, vRealize Operations Manager 7x  • Server Operating Systems Administration: Windows Server 2000-2019.  • Active Directory: Account and GPO administration. DHCP and DNS.  • Office 365 Administration: Exchange, Skype, SharePoint Online  • Deployment Tools: SCCM 2012R2, MDT.  • Database Administration: MSSQL 2005 - 2014.  • Backup and Recovery: VEEAM, HP Data Protector, Backup Exec, Azure Backup.  • Security: Symantec, McAfee, SCEP.  • Scripting and Automation: PowerShell, Shell and PowerCli.