EDI Analyst EDI Analyst EDI Analyst Aurora, CO Work Experience EDI Analyst Insight Global - Denver, CO January 2019 to July 2019 Contract)    Electronic Data Interchange (EDI Analyst within multiple Sterling Integrator environments on Red Hat platform. Responsibilities include: Building, configuring and administration of EDI maps in IBM Sterling File Gateway/B2B Integrator environments, Shell script writing, system administration of Linux environments.    Environment: Linux RedHat, Windows 10 Enterprise Enterprise Architect Artech Information Systems - Aurora, CO August 2018 to December 2018 Contract)    Principle builder of multiple Sterling Integrator environments on Red Hat platform in conjunction with McAfee Data Loss Prevention (DLP) Prevent.  Responsibilities include: Building, configuring and administration of multiple IBM Sterling File Gateway/B2B Integrator environments as part of a migration from a customized MFT platform. Includes integration with customized JAVA Task implementation using ICAP protocol.  Environment: Linux RedHat, Windows 10 Enterprise  WORK SUMMARY (continued) Enterprise Architect Interactive Resources - Aurora, CO September 2017 to August 2018 Contract)    Primary internal Architect providing direction and assistance for a notable financial client. Responsibilities include: Designing, building, configuration and administration of multiple IBM Sterling File Gateway/B2B Integrator environments (encompassing Test, UAT, Production and  Disaster Recovery - including virus detection and removal) as part of a migration using TOGAF/AGILE methodology (along with several diverse, complex and heavily leveraged customized support applications).    Environment: Linux RedHat, Microsoft operating system Win7 Web Services Middleware Manager Wipro Technologies - Broomfield, CO April 2009 to September 2017 Supervised team of Unix Middleware responsible for the administration of customer applications including the installation, support and configuration  of WebSphere, Weblogic, Apache/Tomcat, Sabrix, Maximo, Documentum, and Prodigio. Responsible for team budget, performance evaluations, and staffing. Technical direction determiner. Primary administrator for IBM Connect:Enterprise and Connect:Direct applications with duties  including installation, configuration, support as well as administration of data transmissions, profile management and auto scheduling. Individual  contributor with B2B Sterling File Gateway (SFG). Architect and builder of SFG environment from scratch. Completed migration from Connect:Enterprise and Connect:Direct to Sterling File Gateway (including detailed customizations) . Currently Primary Administrator of Sterling  File Gateway.    Environment: Sun Solaris, Linux RedHat, Microsoft operating systems (Solaris 9 through Solaris 11, ReadHat 2.6, MS-Windows  NT/XP/Vista/Win7/Win8/Win10) Senior Systems Administrator Wipro Technologies - Broomfield, CO April 2002 to 2009 System administration of numerous SUN Enterprise and HP systems (from 250's to 6800's as well as IBM 505's and 590's and also HP 2620 to 8620  servers) in production and development environments comprising over 250 servers. Routinely performing server hardware and software installations, defect replacement, and system upgrades. System backups (using TSM and Netbackup). Complicated custom script creations. System performance  tuning and monitoring (using platform proprietary tools as well as NetIQ and Spectrum), capacity planning, server level TCP/IP network  administration, Veritas Cluster Server administration, Volume Manager installation and administration (both Veritas and Solaris Disk Suite), Highly  Available external storage configuration (EMC Clariion and Sun Storage Tek), configuration and implementation, and user technical support.    Environment: Sun Solaris, IBM AIX, HPUX, PC systems running Linux and Microsoft operating systems (Solaris 7 through Solaris 11, AIX  4.3 through 5.3, MS-Windows NT/XP) using a wide variety of 3rd-party software products (including Oracle, Sybase, DB2, CONNECT:Enterprise, and CONNECT:Direct) with custom applications and scripts developed in shell. Senior Systems Administrator CSG Systems Inc - Englewood, CO October 1998 to March 2002 System administration of several SUN Enterprise and IBM systems (from E1000's to SE6500's as well as IBM F50's and B80's) in production and development environments comprising over 170 servers and 300 desktops. Routinely performing server hardware and software installations, defect  replacement, and system upgrades. Y2K evaluation and implementation of hardware and software elements of site. System backups (using Veritas  NetBackup) on ADIC tape library silo. Complicated custom script creations. System performance tuning and monitoring (using proprietary tools as well as Tivoli), capacity planning, NIS and DNS administration, TCP/IP network administration, Veritas Cluster Server administration, Volume  Manager installation and administration (both Veritas and SUN), Highly Available Network Attached Storage (HA-NAS) administration, configuration and implementation, and user technical support.    Environment: SUN, IBM, IBM PC/clone systems running UNIX and Microsoft operating systems (Solaris 2.5.1 through Solaris 8, AIX 4.2  through 4.3.3, DOS, MS-Windows, MS-Windows NT) using a wide variety of 3rd-party software products (including Sybase and Oracle) with custom applications developed in shell and perl.  WORK SUMMARY (continued) Systems Consultant Analysts International Corporation - Englewood, CO December 1997 to October 1998 System administration of several HP9000 (certified) and SUN Enterprise systems. Performed hardware installations, software installations, system  upgrades of both proprietary and third-party software, system backups, script writing, system performance tuning and monitoring, capacity layout and planning, Volume Manager installations and administration, and technical support.    Environment: HP and SUN systems running HPUX and Solaris using Oracle with applications developed in C, C++ and shell. Senior Systems Consultant Sirius Computer Solutions - Englewood, CO January 1997 to November 1997 Certification in system administration and configuration of HP9000 series machines working for a small company located in San Antonio, Texas.  Hardware and software installations and upgrades, script writing, system backups, performance monitoring and tuning, resource management, capacity planning, client and customer training, and technical support.    Environment: HP6000s-HP9000s running HPUX using numerous applications both purchased and developed in C, shell, SQL plus; and Personal Computers (Apple Macintoshes and IBM PC's/clones) running Mac OS Windows & MS-DOS with third party  applications. Systems Administrator CH2M Hill - Greenwood Village, CO August 1995 to December 1996 Systems administration on Sequent and SUN servers as well as IBM PC/clone machines. Performed production migration from Sequent platform to SUN E3000. Hardware/software upgrades and installations, script writing, system backups (using Spectra Logix Alexandria), system performance  monitoring and tuning (using proprietary tools as well as GEO), resource management, and capacity planning.    Environment: Sequent and SUN servers running Dynix PTX (UNIX) and Solaris with third party applications and in house applications using  C, C++, Perl & shell. Systems Analyst UNIX Systems Managers Inc - Littleton, CO August 1994 to August 1995 Performed system administration for several customer clients as well as: System installation, hardware/software upgrades and replacements, networking, and script writing for Sequent, SUN and IBM PC/clone machines. Taught several computer classes for Sequent Computers including:  Volume Manager, Korn SHELL, Basic and Advanced System Administration, Sequent Clusters, and Introduction to UNIX.    Environment: Sequent and SUN servers running Dynix PTX (UNIX), Solaris and IBM PC/clones with Windows and third-party applications and in-house applications using C, C++ & shell. Systems Support Specialist Computer Telephony Inc - Denver, CO March 1994 to August 1994 System Administration on clustered Sequent servers in a production environment for over 14,000 users including: Script writing, resource  management, system backups, Sequent Volume Manager and custom application development.    Environment: Sequent servers running Dynix/PTX (UNIX) and Sequent Clusters with applications developed in C & shell.  WORK SUMMARY (continued) Computer Consultant Cortech - Westminster, CO June 1993 to February 1994 Installed/configured user workstations, hardware and software packages. Maintained Novell network server. Performed operator functions on multiple Sequent and SUN machines including: System backups, script writing, user help support, and system performance monitoring.    Environment: Sequent severs running Dynix/PTX (UNIX) with applications developed in C, shell and BASIC. System Administrator Denver Directory Company - Englewood, CO June 1989 to March 1992 System Administration on Sequent Balance 8000 including: Script writing, system backups, user help and support, and console installations.  Performed system migration from Sequent Balance 8000 to SUN Sparc server running SUN OS.    Environment: Sequent Balance 8000 running Dynix (UNIX) using Unify RDBMS with applications developed in C, shell, SQL, and RPT; and Personal Computers (Apple Macintoshes and IBM PC's/clones) running Mac OS & MS-DOS with applications developed in C,  Pascal, and Basic. Chief of Artillery Operations Center United States Army - Fort Bragg, NC October 1984 to October 1988 82nd Airborne Division (Sergeant/E-5)    Responsible for artillery computer system operations. Paratrooper in 82 nd Airborne Division. Managed soldiers in fitness, training, task assignments and combat readiness. Maintained communications and sensitive material security. Education Computer Science University of Colorado - Boulder, CO January 1995 AS in Computer Science in Computer Science Metropolitan State College - Denver, CO January 1992 to December 1993 Generator Operator School - Fort Bragg, NC March 1986 to April 1986 Air Assault School - Fort Benning, GA September 1985 Basic Training Course Airborne School - Fort Benning, GA May 1985 to June 1985 Skills CLUSTER SERVER, VOLUME MANAGER, VXFS, DNS, NETWORKING Additional Information 28 years Systems Administration of UNIX systems on SUN, HP, AIX, Linux & Sequent platforms.  25 years Training/Education of technical and non-technical personnel in both private and commercial environments.  21 years Systems Analyst and Solutions Architect on UNIX based and PC based hardware and software systems.  18 years Security Administration of TCP/IP LANs, WANs in complex UNIX client/server environments.  16 years System configuration for Oracle, Sybase, Unify & Informix databases in production & development environments.    •Excellent time management skills with a proven ability to communicate effectively with both technical and non-technical users.  •Solid problem-solving skills with a strong ability to learn and adapt quickly to new and complex technical environments.  •Quality focused strategic thinker, customer-centric and results-oriented with strong leadership and motivational skills.    OPERATING ENVIRONMENTS (by preference and skill)    Hardware Platforms - Operating SUN, HP, IBM, Linux, Intel-based servers, PC's, and Macintosh.  Systems UNIX (Berkley & AT&T Sys V), Solaris/SunOS, HP-UX, AIX, RedHat, Windows  (3.x/95/98/NT/2000/XP/8/10), and Dynix/PTX.  Programming Languages: UNIX Shell (ksh/bash/sh/csh), Perl, EDI, C, SQL, Basic, PostScript, and RPT.  Database Environments Oracle, Sybase, SQL, DB2, Informix, Access, and Unify  Application Environments PuTTY, CDE, Motif, and X-Windows    Software Tools IBM Sterling File Gateway, IBM B2B Integrator, Veritas (Storage Foundation for Oracle RAC,  Cluster Server, Volume Manager, Volume Administrator), NetBackup & vxfs/jfs, IBM  CONNECT:Direct & IBM CONNECT:Enterprise, Weblogic, WebSphere, Remedy, SunTools, Disk  Suite, Netscape, Internet Explorer, MS-Word, MS-Excel, MS-PowerPoint, and MS-Project  Networking Environments TCP/IP LAN/WAN, DNS, NIS, NetBEUI/NetBIOS, Samba, SPX/IPX