Owner/Consultant Owner/Consultant Owner/Consultant, ProTek Computer Services Rockaway, NJ Provide tech support, server support, backup systems, virus protection, PC and laptop repair, network support, internet access, wireless network set ups, remote access configurations and new purchase recommendations to small and medium-sized businesses. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Owner/Consultant ProTek Computer Services - Rockaway, NJ 2003 to Present Local IT Administrator at Mumm Napa Winery for six and a half years. Responsibilities included managing their help desk, troubleshooting and repair of all PCs, workstations, printers, servers, POS system, teleconferencing, phone system, and mobile communications network. Also coordinated new system implementations, testing and implementation of new software with the corporate IT team. Maintained timely communication and status updates to management team and staff.    • Local IT Administrator for Sonoma Cutrer Winery for a year and a half. Worked in coordination with corporate IT team on upgrading all PC's to Windows 10, add a large WiFi system for the cellar wine tanks, added new WiFi system to wine tasting area, help integrate a new cooling system communications for tank readings which involved network and vendor server access. Help integrate a new video conferencing system. Besides the special projects, maintain all network, PC, mobile, tablets and printers for the site.    • Work with a consortium of local IT professionals on various larger scale projects and temporary IT set ups for pop up events. IT Manager/ Systems Administrator Maxager Technology, California - Silicon Valley, CA 1999 to 2003 Managed the information technology operations for this manufacturing software company. Responsible for managing IT projects in the North Bay Area, Silicon Valley, and Japan.    • Developed a secure server room to run multiple servers including extensive web-based products and proprietary databases.  • Installed and maintained LAN cabling and hardware.  • Supervised a 24/7 customer and employee technical help desk.  • Established a transition plan for software products into an Application Service Provider model through an outsourced server farm for total redundancy, security and uptime.  • Researched requirements and managed all Microsoft and Oracle licenses for the ASP model.  • Researched and executed Microsoft licensing solutions cutting costs by 70%.  • Planned and migrated the server room to an off-site hosted server farm including firewall, email and file servers. Upgraded from Exchange 5.5 to Exchange 2k. Kept connectivity from corporate to server farm including a T1 connection and upgraded to a DS3 connection.  • Managed the telecommunications systems during corporate facilities moves.  • Conducted analysis, procured services, directed and seamlessly integrated the technology services of Insight, CDW, Unified TelData, Micromendors, Gobosh, PacBell, Boise Cascade, Microsoft, Entersys, Dell, Compaq, Cisco, AT&T, Cubix, Webex and Lucent/Avaya. Systems Administrator GreenPoint, California 1998 to 1999 • Built and repaired computer hardware and software systems for the company's 1,200 employees exceeding uptime goals and increasing corporate productivity according to quarterly management measurements.  • Managed the upgrade of the corporate wide Novell system to NT, and seamlessly converted all users from Ccmail to Outlook.  • Provided effective technical support for all of the company's 20 productivity software programs.  • Worked efficiently with the company's server, WAN and router teams throughout the nation ensuring seamless integration of corporate wide hardware and software upgrades.  • Developed documentation for inter and intra-departmental technical processes for 40 person technical team. Technical Operations Manager, Computer Connection, California 1996 to 1998 • Developed general manager processes and policies for RMAs (returned merchandise), inventory control, QOS (quality of service), equipment and operational security.  • Trained and supervised Computer Connection staff.  • Provided computer diagnosis and troubleshooting services for retail and business PC customers.  • Delivered and installed computer systems to residents and businesses - trained the users on both software and hardware purchases. Operations Manager International Non-Profit - New York, NY 1993 to 1996 • Developed and implemented operational procedures, security systems and computerized check-in systems for 600-acre campus facility serving thousands of annual visitors.  • Created and administered safety prevention, electrical, and fire alarm protection systems for nine buildings throughout the campus headquarters. Education Active Directory / Network Security College of Marin 2003 Website Design Sullivan Community College - New York, NY 1995 Mechanical Drafting Morris County College 1986 Skills Network Configurations (10+ years), Servers (10+ years), Desktop Troubleshooting (10+ years), Domain Experience (10+ years), Switches and Routers (10+ years), Wireless (10+ years), NAS Devices (10+ years), Network Cabling (10+ years), Software Configurations (10+ years), Laptop Trouble-shooting and fixing (10+ years), Smart Phones (10+ years), Backup Systems, Offline or Cloud (10+ years), Printers (10+ years), Phone Systems, Analog or VOIP. (10+ years)