Director of Technology Director of Technology Director of Technology - Supreme Court Appellate Division First Judicial Department River Edge, NJ A distinguished Director of Information Technology with twenty-five years of demonstrated accomplishments. Solid Project Management skills, capable of leading and inspiring individuals to maximize levels of productivity, while forming cohesive team environments. Excellent communicator focused on building strong client relationships. Dedicated to quality and service excellence with an aptitude for launching new technology operations, including client and vendor relationships, policies and procedures, business processes, and SLA’s. Work Experience Director of Technology Supreme Court Appellate Division First Judicial Department - New York, NY October 2008 to Present • Accountable for largescale hardware and software projects that included, upgrading bandwidth, improving security and ensuring the scalability of networks. Budgets ranged from 1M - 2.5M per project.  • Led weekly meetings with executive leadership to identify opportunities for improvement, establish milestones, and tailor products to individual departments, while managing a broad range of technology vendors spanning from infrastructure to software with the objective to reduce costs by as much as 90%.  • Assembled a team of FTE(s), Consultants, and Vendors to deliver a software solution flexible to adapt to the current workflow, document repository needs, and state driven deadlines.  • Spearheaded process-improvement projects to ensure accurate, timely data delivery, reduced production expense, and effective relationships with inter-agency operations and vendors, resulting in a 48% improvement in product accuracy/reliability, 100% on-time delivery of products to internal users as well as an 18% reduction in vendor costs, a 37% FTE reduction through improved efficiencies and a 65% percent improvement in overall internal customer satisfaction rating.  • Managed project resources, progress, completion timeframes, and budget in the creation of the Appellate Courts new database while exceeding key operational performance targets, with results that include a 150% increase in application processing output, a 100% increase in productivity, a 90% reduction in errors, as well as a 45% improvement in average answer speed and a 32% reduction in dropped calls.  • Worked with NY State Court administrations internal programmers to develop a document management system which replaced a vendor's product saving $120,000 a year in maintenance and upgrades. This project was implemented and finished at no cost to the Appellate division 1st Department as it was paid through the Unified Court Systems State budget.  • Negotiated no cost lease agreements for several of our external offices requiring the housing of 27 attorneys and supporting staff. As well as working with one of our vendors to run fiber connections for these offices, tying them back to the Appellate division fiber ring.  • Implemented training-needs based on knowledge gap analysis to pinpoint needed employee training requirements, followed by the establishment of training priorities, along with a corresponding budget, timetable and implementation plan.  • Responsible for saving the court over $162,000 a year when we migrated from the legacy telephone system to VoIP. Negotiated the distribution of $300,000 dollars' worth VoIP equipment at zero cost to the Appellate Division's 1st Department.  • Successfully migrated 500 users onto Microsoft's Office365 cloud computing platform, resulting in a reduction of total cost of ownership for productivity and collaboration tools. Savings of over $250,000 over three-year period has allowed our IT staff to focus on business problems that add more value to the Appellate court.  • Integrated 12 external offices into the Appellate divisions network infrastructure. This resulted in savings of over $200,000 a year by pulling each office of individual ISP providers and placing them onto the Court administrations diverse optical backbone running at multiple 10Gbps circuits.  • Pioneered in the extensive usage of videoconferencing for courtroom appearances, attorney client consultations, legal demonstrations, interviews, and Judges conferences, saving the Appellate Division over $100,000 a year.  • Implemented a security video surveillance system with 150 cameras that deters and detects crimes and protect the public safety.  • Negotiated Verizon's cellular phone contract with the Appellate Division, which provided us with smart phones, tablets, and portable mobile hotspot devices allowing the Justices of the court to work virtually from anywhere in the world. This has resulted in increased productivity and cost savings of over $100,000 saved work hours and productivity.  • Led the transition team that took the Court from an in-house server-based infrastructure to a virtual server environment which resulted in savings and lower capital expenses due to more efficient use of hardware resources.  • Manage a team of seven administrators providing systems, network, and end-user support across fourteen Supreme Court agencies.  • Responsible for the technical support of more than 300 users including 18 Supreme Court Justices.  • Introduced procedural improvements to increase productivity 30% by including scheduled hardware maintenance, employee activity tracking and cross integration of systems. Manager of Information Technology K&L Gates - Newark, NJ September 2004 to October 2008 • Quickly evaluated existing technical team and changed culture in four months to overcome low morale, poor work results, and high turnover.  • Achieved phenomenal turnaround within six months in employee morale; reduced turnover; increased promotions; enhanced employee satisfaction; boosted results, implemented morale-boosters, offsite staff meetings, contests, and consistent communication.  • Guided, motivated, top-performing technical and application support teams in the administration, installation, training, and support of client/server hardware, software, and networked systems.  • Oversaw and determined timeframes for major IT projects including system updates, upgrades, migrations and outages  • Rolled out Siemens VoIP system utilizing custom designed Siemens Series E software application.  • Gathered and analyzed data in support of business cases, proposed projects, and systems requirements as well as determined the risk areas associated with process/ system designs.  • Managed and reported on the allocation of the IT budget.  • Performed cost/benefit analysis for new development enhancements and provided testing verification of developed systems while managing the user acceptance testing.  • Ensured consistent application development techniques and efficient use of data to facilitate responsive support of clients.  • Wrote technical and business requirements. Provided strategic, expert advice and consultation on the design and implementation of effective administrative and business processes to include process analysis, redesign, and organizational effectiveness.  • Participated in the firm's implementation of short and long-range goals, objectives, policies, and operating procedures.  • Conducting regular system audits. Senior Systems Administrator Thomson Reuters - New York, NY October 1997 to September 2004 • Managed and supported multiple networks with over 50 servers and over 2500 nodes running NT 4.0 / 2000 / XP, providing 24/7 service to 380 programmers and support staff.  • Spearheaded the buildout of a data center.  • Planned and managed service outages and maintenance service periods.  • Developed, administered and tracked software maintenance budgets.  • Responsible for assessing and ordering appropriate software licenses and maintaining database of software licenses.  • Researched new technologies and calculated future needs to achieve accurate capacity planning. Negotiated hardware and software purchases and maintenance contracts.  • Managed multiple projects, including migration from Windows NT to Windows 2000 Professional and a development lab running Windows XP and .Net Servers.  • Assisted in the hiring and developing of training programs for 8-member team.  • Supervised Windows operations team. Systems Administrator Fordham University School of Law - New York, NY June 1994 to October 1997 • Setup administered and maintained Microsoft NT 3.51.  • Quickly arranged repair for hardware in occasion of hardware failure.  • Setup security policies for users.  • Implemented roll-out of Windows 3.11 to Windows 95.  • Developed procedures manual on Folio Views.  • Installed, maintained and troubleshot PC's, PC peripherals and network hardware.  • Trained and supervised student workers hired for the university helpdesk.  • Daily maintenance of the network; including setting up new servers, upgrading servers. Education Master of Business Administration in Technology Management University of Phoenix 2007 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Fordham University - Bronx, NY 1998 Skills DATABASE, AVAYA, DREAMWEAVER, SHAREPOINT, VISIO, BACKUP EXEC, MICROSOFT PROJECT, CHANGE MANAGEMENT, R2, SYMANTEC, FTP, JIRA, MENTORING, TRAINING, BUDGETING, FORECASTING, STRATEGIC PLANNING, SIEMENS, INTEGRATION, PROBLEM RESOLUTION Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/rodolfo-machuca Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE    • Team Leadership  • Project Management  • Technology Integration  • Strategic Planning  • Building Strategic Alliances  • Expense Budgeting / Forecasting  • Problem Resolution    • Training & Mentoring  • Product Analysis & Development  • Information Technology Initiatives  • Change Management  • Visionary Strategies  • Building Strategic Alliances  • Asset & Liability Management    TECHNICAL SKILLS  Platforms: Windows 10, Windows Server 2012 R2, Windows Server 2016, Mac OS High Sierra, Mojave  Applications: Office 365, SharePoint Designer, Symantec Endpoint Protection, SCCM, Foxit, FileMaker Pro  Tools: Dreamweaver 8, CS3, JIRA, Footprints, FTP, Avaya, Impact Database, Skype, Foxit, Symantec Backup Exec  Microsoft Project, Visio. One Note, One Drive, Info Path, Smart Draw, Sapphire Pro, Siemens Series E    ADDITIONAL SKILLS  • Proficient in Spanish  • Executive Management Certified