Tech Support Manager and Systems Administrator Tech Support Manager and <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Tech Support Manager and Systems Administrator Granada Hills, CA More than 18 years with Experience in Systems Administration and Tech Support Management. Work Experience Tech Support Manager and Systems Administrator VS Media Inc June 2007 to December 2018 • Managed and upgraded all server hardware and software. Managed ADUC, File Share, GPO, Backups and Print Server Maintenance. Organize Cabling and re-rack Servers in Headquarters, Server Room and at Data Center.  • Managed Desktop Support which included but not limited to Computer Equipment Purchasing, Inventory, Re-imaging, Software Patching, Adding to Domain, installing third party software, and testing before deployment.  • Delegated tasks via proprietary ticketing system to support staff.  • Administered Hosted VoIP Phone System through a cloud portal for in-house staff. Was responsible for installing the physical and and configuring the extensions, voicemail, speed dials and the like.  • Configure user accounts in Cisco ASA, Palo Alto, Fortigate for VPN.  • Research and Resolve software and hardware through OEM, vendors and technical literature.  • Schedule and test backups.  • Document process for all new hardware and software installations Systems Administrator Computrition Inc May 2004 to June 2007 • Technical resource in the setup, maintenance and 24/7 application support of web hosted users/accounts and hospitality software in Windows and Unix Environments. Handle the procurement and inventory of equipment for company headquarters, offsite location in Boston, and for field representatives. Plan and coordinate delivery of all systems and software upgrades.  • Create users and manage permissions in ADUC, configure and support hardware and peripherals.  • Replace and upgrade hardware for in-house and customer purchases (turnkey)  • Configure, Monitor health of Backups, and inventory backup tapes Corporate Mgmt. R&D October 2000 to June 2004 Public Communications Services/Hello Inc.  • Supplied reporting to executive level management on monthly commissions, revenue generation and productivity. Monitors and provided data for major accounts for loss of revenue and profitability on a monthly basis. Verified and resolved monthly errors during billing. Desktop Support/Lucent Phone Switch Administrator ConexOne Communications November 1996 to September 2000 Delivered comprehensive technical support enterprise-wide, including upgrading/configuring PC's with Windows 2000 and installing billing, and cellular vendor software. Skills Juniper, Vpn, Cisco, Citrix, Metaframe, Vmware, Exchange, Networking, Voip, Management console, Linux, Os 10, Red hat, Symantec, Lucent, Excel, Microsoft exchange, Microsoft office, Outlook, Powerpoint Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Platforms/Software  • Windows Server 2012/2008/2003/200, Microsoft Exchange Server 2010 and 2007 including Office 365 Management Console  • Windows 10/8.1/8/7, mac OS 10.9 - 10.14 Mojave, Linux Red Hat and CentOS  • Microsoft Office Suite 365/2016/2010/2007/2003. Outlook, Excel, Word, PowerPoint, Microsoft Office 2011 for Mac.  • Proxmox and VMWare Virtual Environments  • Slack, Office Communicator  • Citrix Metaframe Presentation Server, Smart Board Smart Meeting Pro, Symantec Antivirus Corporate Edition, Trend Micro(Spam Filter), ESET, Sage 100 and Sage Business Vision  Networking  • Cisco ASDM, Palo Alto, Juniper, and Fortigate VPN Clients, Aerohive, Netgear/Lynksys Routers and Access Points  Phone Systems:  • PBX & V/M Basic Lucent Administration, VOIP Basic Phone Administration