Linux Administrator Linux <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Linux Systems Administrator Tampa Bay, FL Work Experience Linux Administrator Perspecta - Charleston, WV May 2019 to Present Production support contract role for Perspecta supporting Housing and Urban Development assets in Charleston, WV. Currently awaiting Public Trust Clearance. UNIX Systems Administrator (LAMP) VACO November 2017 to August 2018 Contractor originally hired for Provest LLC to plan and execute a server migration running on a legacy LAMP stack (openSUSE Desktop/CentOS platform) and deprecated Apache/MySQL/PHP to latest versions. Built a 9T NFS server to move 17MM files from a Synology NAS to a Compellent SAN; Worked with remote development team to provision a new virtual environment (vCenter Server 6.0) based on a 'wish-list' specifications. Add CPU and memory on demand, provision solid state disk for database servers, spinning drives for the rest. Deployed their current production environment and then cloned those servers for development. UNIX Security Specialist Fountain Group 2016 to 2017 Hired as a contract UNIX security specialist for Nielsen Media/Tata Consultancy Services as part of a team of eight offshore specialists to defend their infrastructure of ~10K+ Red Hat Enterprise Linux servers world-wide. Provide expertise in system hardening, log interpretation and security methods. Mentoring role with junior offshore administrators, building a Snort sandbox for the team. Part of a group that assesses threats (cyber-attacks, penetration attempts, weak OS security) with Splunk to Nielsen's assets and mitigate those threats. Part of a team of four that act as the primary points of contact for any potential attack to those assets. UNIX Systems Engineer Cutting Edge Recruiting Solutions 2015 to 2016 Contract systems engineer for One Blood, fka/Florida Blood Services. Primary goal to maintain the current medical/billing system running on Caldera Linux 8.0.0, UNISYS Mapper 8R1.E6 on unsupported HP DL380G2 servers - no one currently on staff had the knowledge necessary to administer it. While assigned to this project it was determined that a physical-to-virtual migration of the OS and application would be necessary for BCP purposes. Using VMWare vCenter 4.1.0 and RHEL 7.2, the most recent version of Mapper (12R2) was installed, the database was purged from the physical environment and ported to the new platform. Rudimentary instructions were provided to staff tasked with maintaining database lookups. UNIX Systems Administrator Apex Systems, Inc 2014 to 2014 2014  Contract systems administrator for Catalina Marketing Corporation. Originally tasked for UNIX vulnerability risk mitigation - including patching for the Heartbleed bug and the Bash Code Injection Vulnerability - the role grew to server builds and deploy virtual machines. Part of a team of five, responsible for administering ~700 physical and virtual machines, primarily SuSE SLES 9.4-10.3 and AIX 7.1. Monitored the Dell SecureWorks portal for PHP and HTTP vulnerability probes to externally facing servers, added sensors to PRTG Network Monitoring tool. Senior UNIX Systems Administrator HCL America 2013 to 2014 Resumption of role managing the transition to the new managed services provider for Adecco NA in a consultant position with HCL America. Primary focus was managing a TRU64 TruServer cluster running PeopleSoft Financials and maintaining the company's Redhat/Oracle Enterprise Linux environment. Worked hand in hand with offshore AIX administrators managing ~60 p570/p770 clusters, and assist in managing the storage environment, build/rebuild print queues to support 200+ printers world wide. Senior UNIX Systems Administrator Enterprise Integration 2012 to 2013 Sole UNIX administrator supporting ~60 AIX, CentOS, Redhat and Oracle Enterprise Linux and legacy Tru64 servers of company's primary account as a managed service provider. Hired specifically as an SME to ease transition of client account to an offshore MSP. Manage and administer AIX 5.3L TL12/Oracle RAC 11G R2 Clusters and storage devices (NetApp v3170 Filer, Compaq HSG80, Hitachi NSC55, AMS500, AMS1000, HP EVA/MSA, HP/Brocade switches). Hardware and OS support for SOA/BPEL, PeopleSoft servers. Document standard operating procedures, participate in the Change Advisory Board. Provide Windows system administration as required.    Key Achievement:  * Within three weeks on the team, a compromised SFTP/SCP server used for distributing malware, MP3 and MP4 files was discovered. Logging information and Google searches showed that the server had been penetrated as early as 2007. The environment was rebuilt in a virtual machine with CentOS. A 'chroot jail' to lock down access was employed, and all unnecessary daemons were disabled running on the server. 12 character passwords for all 70 accounts with 180-day expiration dates were implemented. A request with the networking/firewall team to block access from all known Chinese- and Russian-based IP addresses was submitted. UNIX Systems Administrator (LAMP) First Advantage Corporation 2009 to 2011 Assigned as an Infrastructure Support UNIX Administrator for the Advanced Biometrics Group of First Advantage, direct report to CTO. With a loose design specification and no legacy documentation, the Fingerprinting and I-9 classification platform was migrated from five physical servers (FreeBSD) to a virtual server environment (VMware) with nine servers running CentOS 5.5 OS. This was a time-sensitive data center migration from Savvis in Los Angeles to CoreLogic's Poway data center.  Key Achievements:  * The entire ABG platform from the preparation/planning phase to "go-live" was completed in under four months. This included hardware specification, procurement, installation on-site, and gradual migration of approximately 1.7T of a MySQL database, web and mail (Postfix) server, client integration and four "store-and-forward" servers used by federal law enforcement agencies (FBI, FDLE), banking institutions (Bank Of America, Wells Fargo), and Florida state school systems and Dioceses.  * Once the environment was moved into production there was an immediate 40% increase in the amount of fingerprint processing daily from the previous platform.  * A Disaster Recovery site in FADV's Indiana data center was built and was operational using similar hardware in less than three weeks.  * A second data center migration from CoreLogic's data center to Tampa-based Peak10. The hardware was in place at that time. VPN connectivity to the FBI's processing center was currently the bottleneck for the completion of this project. ePortal / UNIX Production Support Supervisor Sage Software Healthcare Division - Tampa, FL 2004 to 2009 ePortal / UNIX Production Support Supervisor - Sage Software Healthcare Division  Manager - Infrastructure Engineering - WebMD / Emdeon Practice Services Tampa, FL 2004 - 2009  Held responsibility as WebMD/Emdeon's IT Manager for planning and executing the migration of legacy hardware, operating systems, and application support. Assumed additional management responsibility after merger with Sage Software, managing the day-to-day activities of four senior UNIX and two contract WebSphere administrators. Coordinate and lead multiple concurrent projects as primary point of contact, responsible for analyzing project specifications, hiring administrative support / development staff, allocating tasks, leading meetings, and devising solutions. Maintain open communication with department heads, project managers, and senior level administrators. Education None Skills Linux (10+ years), Solutions (5 years), UNIX (10+ years), VMWare (10+ years), WebSphere (5 years), System Administrator (10+ years), Solaris (5 years), Redhat (10+ years), AIX (5 years), Red Hat, System Admin, Linux Administrator (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses ITIL Foundation Certificate in IT Service Management (EXIN License 0033251) February 2012 to Present Additional Information Core Competencies:  • Systems Administration  • Migrations/Consolidations  • Performance Tuning  • TCP/IP Administration  • RHEL, SuSE, OEL, CentOS    • IT System Restructuring  • Test Development & Execution  • Enterprise Backup Solutions  • Legacy Application Updates  • Fedora, AIX, Sun, SCO, Tru64    • OS Risk Mitigation  • Access Control  • Intrusion Detection / Security  • Team Building & Leadership  • VMware Virtualization    Technical Proficiencies  Platforms:  UNIX, AIX, BSD, Solaris, HP-UX, TRU64, Ubuntu, Knoppix, Sun OS, Windows 2000/2003/2008R2/7/10/XP, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Oracle Enterprise Linux, CentOS, Fedora Core, SuSE SLES 9.4-10.3, Slackware Linux, SCO UNIX, Caldera Linux, Novell.    Tools:  BMC Remedy Force, Centrify, CA Clarity PPM, ManageEngine OpManager, PRTG Network Monitor, Service Now (SNOW), JIRA, Snort, Splunk, VMware, Miva Merchant/Magento, Korn/Bash/C Shell, Java, JavaScript, PHP, Perl, Tomcat, Microsoft Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint, J2EE applications, Veritas Netbackup BusinesServer/DataCenter, WebSphere portal, SharePoint, TCP/IP Administration, DNS, S/FTP, HTTP, HTTPS, SSH, SSL, SCP, Apache, Netscape Suitespot, SunONE, IBM HTTP Server and IIS web servers, OpenLDAP, Samba.    Hardware:  HP DL/ML servers, Sun servers, SE-NA, FC-AL HBAs, ESX/ESXi (Thin), IBM pSeries and Hewlett-Packard Superdome systems, IBM Shark, HP MSA/EVA, EMC and Clariion IP4700 SAN, Hitachi NSC, AMS500, AMS1000, NetApp v3170 Filer, ADIC (Quantum) DLT-7000 tape backup, Novell Borderware firewall, Intel/AMD, Compaq Proliant servers.