Network/ Systems Administrator Network/<span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network/ Systems Administrator - Telecom Pioneers Highlands Ranch, CO Work Experience Network/ Systems Administrator Telecom Pioneers March 2011 to Present Responsible for all aspects of computer network including user support, network configuration and maintenance, installation of servers/workstations, login scripts and group policies.  • Develop reports using Crystal Reports XI and SQL Server 2008.  • Database administrator for SQL Server 2005 and 2008.  • Responsible for iMIS product, which is the main database product and heavily integrated with the web site.  • Responsible for being SME for PALS and Volunteer Now.  • Responsible for maintaining backup routines utilizing Symantec Backup Exec and SQL Server backups.  • Responsible for keeping abreast of updates and patches and updating servers and workstations.  • Responsible for anti-virus protection utilizing Trend Products.  • Responsible for contracting with and directing external contractors. Network/ Systems Administrator Museum Store Association, inc September 2005 to November 2011 Responsible for all aspects of computer network including user support, network configuration and maintenance, installation of servers/workstations, login scripts and group policies.  • Develop reports using Crystal Reports XI and SQL Server 2000.  • Database administrator for SQL Server 2000 and 2005.  • Responsible for iMIS product, which was the main database product and heavily integrated with the web site.  • Responsible for troubleshooting any technical issues that arise, especially with the web site and its integration with iMIS and Cold Fusion code.  • Responsible for determining needs and making decisions regarding hardware and software.  • Responsible for maintaining backup routines utilizing Veritas Backup Exec and SQL Server backups.  • Consolidated servers and workstations to simplify and streamline the network.  • Responsible for keeping abreast of updates and patches and updating servers and workstations.  • Installed Checkpoint firewall appliance and reconfigured internal IP addressing scheme.  • Responsible for the 99% reduction of SPAM.  • Responsible for anti-virus protection utilizing McAfee Products.  • Created and maintained MSA intranet. Network Administrator/Web Master Colorado County Officials Employee Retirement Association January 2004 to March 2005 Completely redesigned website and updated it on as needed basis.  • Completely upgraded the entire network from NT to Microsoft 2003 Small Business Server.  • Responsible for all aspects of computer network including user support, network configuration and maintenance and maintaining website.  • Installed Checkpoint firewall appliance and reconfigured IP addressing scheme.  • Selected and oversaw the installation of Nortel phone system.  • Converted email from Pop3 provider to Exchange.  • Provided support for Sungard Omni Plus system which handled all financial records of association.  • Purchased all equipment including servers and desktops and configured all for use.  • Set up test environment for Omni upgrades.  • Responsible for keeping abreast of updates and patches and updating servers and workstations.  • Responsible for backup routine using Veritas Backup Exec. System Analyst/Network Administrator Advanced Integrated Management Services Inc November 2001 to June 2003 AIMSI is a contractor for the Department of Energy at the Western Area Power Administration. Responsibilities include providing second and third level support to approximately 1200 users, network administration and troubleshooting. Platforms include Novell NetWare 5.1, 6 and Windows NT/2000/XP.  • Responsible for all aspects of e-mail system including installation, internet and interoffice connectivity, client updates and server optimization.  • Responsible for maintaining and updating the Mail Marshal Mail relay, which includes adding new blocking rules as appropriate.  • Second level software support for standard desktop applications. Install, configure and test software prior to deployment.  • Network monitoring of main file servers for NDS health and patch servers when necessary.  • Responsible for assisting the helpdesk with any network related issue and work with customer to ensure their satisfaction with network operations.  • Work with operations to determine best back up strategy and configure the backups with Veritas.  • Create Novell Application Launcher objects using ZenWorks 3.2 snapshot utility for software delivery. Education B.F.A. Colorado State University Certifications/Licenses CNE Present Certified Novell Engineer CCNA Cisco Certified Network Associate Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/buagcogwe7yvwgui Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.