Infrastructure/ Systems Administrator M2 Infrastructure/<span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> M2 Infrastructure/ Systems Administrator M2 - CACI, Inc Work Experience Infrastructure/ Systems Administrator M2 CACI, Inc May 2012 to Present Providing Linux and Windows system administration support for field site under the AXISS/FITS contract. Transition older physical servers to virtual machines (VM). Ensure customer account control via Centrify and Active Directory. Follow best practices for security and conduct updates for accreditation requirements and IAVA compliance. Special Projects Engineer ITT Exelis June 2011 to May 2012 Conducted installation, configuration, management and monitoring of firewalls, routers, switches, servers, clients and infrastructure in a LAN, WAN environment. Dell Services Federal Government 2007 to 2011 Systems Administrator Level IV  Maintain and administer servers running Red Hat/Suse Linux and Solaris platforms in a LAN and remote WAN environment. Executed routine admin support, auditing, system monitoring, and conducted installations, troubleshooting and maintenance as required. Developed shell scripts to automate routine and complex tasks. Troubleshot applications, hardware, and communications problems. Conducted security monitoring and implemented best practices to ensure systems met accreditation requirements and IAVA compliance. QSS Group, Inc 2003 to 2007 System Administrator Level IV  Primary for system support to Windows and Unix-based Digital Audio Storage (DAS). Managed Microsoft SQL Server databases related to DAS. Harris Corporation 2002 to 2003 System Administrator Level III  Supported systems dedicated to DAS, including Digital Integration Communication Electronics System (DICES III). Support consisted of installation, monitoring, maintenance, auditing, and backup of each system. Developed shell scripts to automate routine Help Desk tasks. Systems Administrator and Help Desk Manager US Navy 1996 to 2002 Leader of Systems Support team made up of military, government employees and contractors. Provided training and wrote systems Standard Operating Procedures (SOPS). Monitored, researched, and evaluated Remedy tickets for resolution. Supplied SA support to systems running a variety of UNIX platforms. As Help Desk Manager instructed Help Desk personnel in customer service policies and practices. Education Management Information Systems Wayland Baptist University September 2010 Skills Ksh, Unix, Unix shell, Dns, Remedy, Tcp/ip, Nfs, Tcp, Mysql, Sybase, Netscape, Html, Perl, Php, Ethernet, Ms office, Nis, Zircon, Acrobat, Adobe acrobat Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ (CE Edition) February 2018 to February 2021 ITIL Foundation April 2018 to Present CompTIA Linux+ August 2010 to Present Microsoft Azure Fundamentals Certification June 2019 to Present AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner August 2019 to August 2022 Additional Information SKILLS: Software: UNIX Shell - CSH, KSH and SH, HTML, PHP, Perl, MySQL, DNS, NFS, Sybase, TCP/IP, NIS, Ethernet, MS Office products. Zircon, Netscape, Adobe Acrobat, Remedy, various mail tools.