Senior Systems Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Systems Administrator Pittsburgh, PA Dedicated Information Technology professional with Cisco CCNA and many CompTIA certifications as well as 19+ years of System Administration experience. Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator University of Pittsburgh - Oakland, PA February 2014 to Present • Lead Admin for VMWare WorkSpace One (Airwatch) environment. Manage enrollment, profile setup, profile deployment, application setup, application deployment, application group setups and device group setups. Manage iOS, Android and Windows systems. Setup an automated enrollment and assignment to the end user for all iOS devices utilizing Apple DEP and Apple VPP Programs.     • Provide primary support for the creation, updating and maintenance of all network print queues throughout all areas under my department's responsibilities. Printing support is done via Microsoft Print Servers and Deployed via Microsoft Group Policy.    • Provide primary support for front end of our Microsoft SCCM environment. Support includes creation and updating of Operating Systems Deployment Task Sequences, Creation, Deployment, and Monitoring of various Applications that are pushed out to clients via Created and Maintained SCCM Collections.    • Provide primary support for Downloading, Testing, and Deployment software updates from Microsoft and many other vendors. Support and Deployment is done via Microsoft SCCM Software Updates and Ivanti Patch for Windows.    • Provide Microsoft Active Directory support via Creation and Maintenance of Active Directory groups and Users.    • Support Microsoft Group Policy Creation, Updates and Maintenance of existing policies that apply to all clients in my departments area of influence.     • Support and Manage Crowdstrike Anti-Virus environment for all clients    • Provide Support for ZScaler Proxy Server that restricts clients access to internet and browsing capabilities.    • Provide Secondary Support for VMWare Horizon View enviornment, including assignment of entitlements, pool creation, pool maintenance, user assignment and migrations of Virtual Machines to upgraded environment    • Manage various department moves including constant communication with department heads, scheduling of equipment moves, ensuring all networking needs are addressed, scheduling of staff to execute the move, and taking care of any post-move needs when they arise. Systems Administrator II / III (Campus Technology Team) Education Management Corporation / Dream Center Education Holdings - Pittsburgh, PA November 2005 to January 2014 • Provided primary support for the deployment, management, configuration, and upgrades for over 100 Altiris Notification and Deployment Servers at over 100+ school sites owned by the company. Responsibilities included creation and deployment of images for end-user computers, creation and automated deployment of various software packages, and creating and maintaining a central software portal that allowed all sites to easily download new packages or images to their local server for deployment.    • Provided on-site Altiris Training to various users at many existing and newly opened school locations throughout the company    • Provided general support for the Windows Server Operating Systems running the Altiris Software    • Provided setup and upgrading of Symantec Endpoint Protection Central Consoles to all school sites within company    • Involved in many other projects across all departments in the company when called upon for assistance Systems Administrator I - II Education Management Corporation / Dream Center Education Holdings - Pittsburgh, PA July 2002 to September 2005 • Responsible for Installation, migration, upgrading, and backing up corporate Novell Netware Directory Services environment throughout corporate office and all schools owned by the company.    • Assisted in implementation and was primary support admin for corporate Symantec Anti-Virus Corporate Edition, including setup of Primary and Secondary servers, pushing out virus definition updates, and support for removal of malware, Upgraded the system successfully over several versions.    • Assisted with the installation of Citrix Metaframe XP environment and also provided support of Metaframe XP servers and users throughout the corporate headquarters and at all schools owned by the company    • Installed and configured Windows server’s across the corporate environment, including daily support, reports, upgrades, and updates.    • Deployed Microsoft Updates to all Corporate Clients via SUS / WSUS Services Desktop Analyst Education Management Corporation / Dream Center Education Holdings - Pittsburgh, PA July 2001 to June 2002 • Provided support to all corporate user’s desktop and laptop computers.     • Installed and built new users desktop and laptop computers, including base Windows operating systems and all additional configuration of necessary software    • Ordered and received various hardware and software for users in corporate headquarters using Lawson ordering system    • Provided backups of users files and took complete system images using Ghost software. Technical Analyst Education Management Corporation / Dream Center Education Holdings - Pittsburgh, PA August 2000 to June 2001 • Assisted Corporate Desktop Manager with manual installations of operating systems as well as individual applications for the companies High-School representatives that travel the county’s high schools promoting and presenting the many different types of degrees and classes offered at the companies schools across the country.     • Assisted in migration of High-School representatives from multiple different laptop vendors to one single HP version. Migrations included software and personal data    • Shipped and Received laptops from High-School representatives throughout the company using companies UPS Shipping Software Education Bachelor's in Broadcast Journalism / Information Technology Pennsylvania State University-Main Campus - State College, PA August 1996 to August 2000 Skills System Administrator (10+ years), Microsoft Active Directory (7 years), VMWare (4 years), Powershell (2 years), SCCM (5 years), Microsoft Sharepoint (2 years), Symantec Altiris (7 years), Microsoft SCCM (5 years), ZScaler Proxy Software (2 years), Crowdstrike Anti-Virus (1 year), Microsoft Group Policy (6 years), Microsoft Print Server Management (8 years), VMWare Workspace One / Airwatch (5 years) Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ June 2014 to March 2022 CompTIA Network+ June 2015 to March 2022 CompTIA Security+ June 2016 to March 2022 CCNA Routing and Switching June 2019 to June 2022 ITIL v3 Present