Database Administrator Database <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Omaha, NE Talented professional with a proven ability to troubleshoot and analyze issues on systems/databases in multi-platform and clustered server environments. Proven ability to establish relationships and gain trust from colleagues and customers. Experienced in supporting both production and non-production business environments. A committed team player with excellent interpersonal skills and strong analytical and documentation skills. Work Experience Database Administrator Thomson Reuters/Refinitiv - Eagan, MN July 2013 to Present RESPONSIBILITIES  - Support multiple legacy application environments, performing schema refreshes, application upgrades, preparing script bundles for client fixes  - Create and test patches for current application release levels  - Spin up instances in the OpenStack Private Cloud for Oracle 11g and Oracle 12c databases, install and configure Oracle 12c instances for POC for legacy apps migrations  - Database capacity monitoring/planning  - Troubleshoot and analyze performance issues, user issues  - Provide Webex recordings of various topics training DBA peers on various DBA responsibilities  - Create Knowledge Base Technical Documentation of BU DBA responsibilities, steady state support,  - Upload documents and Knowledge training recordings to company's Intranet Hub or MS SharePoint sites  - Provide MS SQL Server/Oracle DBA support of Legacy Apps on non-customer facing databases, and for customer facing database support mostly at the infrastructure level due to multiple layers corporate production support.    ACCOMPLISHMENTS  ? Perform database schema migrations out of the Company's Private Cloud for Professional Services Consultants and Support Services teams onto a physical server environments and AWS Cloud.  ? Wrote sql tablespace/schema creation scripts for creating new schemas in upgraded Oracle 12c Databases  ? Prepared MSSQL exports for importing into AWS Cloud Database, interfacing with Cloud Engineer collaborating together during the migration.  ? Instrumental in solving application issues for specific customer unable to see their client data feeds.  ? Performed export/import of customer data into development database and  ? Deployed patches to the application code.  ? Interfaced with client to test queries and DIS Feeds executions to confirm the results were successful and data was visible.  ? Designed and streamlined Professional Services Client Data Handling document to move client data from a Secure Network layer to Non-secure network level for troubleshooting application issues.  ? Pulled hardware/software specifications on various database environments for application managers in preparation for migrating to upgraded Linux hardware and Oracle Software.  ? Collaborated with the Technical Data Architect in delivering the specs to design a Build Configuration Solution and proposal (RFP) submitted to the stakeholders to review and approve. Database Administrator MLT VACATIONS - Edina, MN May 2008 to July 2013 RESPONSIBILITIES  - Administered Oracle 11gR2 64-bit, 3-node Production RAC and 64-bit, 2-node Test/Dev RAC environment, RH5.0 Linux  - Performed regular maintenance patching and upgrades on Oracle RAC environments using ASM storage  - Steady state support - monitoring database backup completions, database capacity management, monitoring job completion statuses  - Interfaced with customers, completing database requests  - Researched database performance issues involving the application software  - Executed regularly scheduled and on demand database refreshes  - Maintained Unix shell scripts on Red Hat Linux servers  - Provided MSSQL database support for HR Payroll department    ACCOMPLISHMENTS  ? Participated with dba team on Oracle Cluster upgrades from 32-bit to 64-bit Production on RH5.0 Linux  ? Team player in creating the MS SQL database environment for a new Telephony Recording system for the Travel Reservations Call Center. Provided software backups and sizing recommendations for the database creation. Established automated backup schedules for daily incremental/weekly full backups. Database Administrator METROPOLITAN COUNCIL - Saint Paul, MN September 2006 to May 2008 RESPONSIBILITIES  - Performed Oracle 10gR2 Software Installs on Linux and Windows Servers  - Performed Oracle Client Installs  - Assisted in migration of Oracle 8i databases from AIX Unix environment to Linux environment running Oracle 10gR2    ACCOMPLISHMENTS  ? Upgraded Oracle 10g to Oracle 10gR2 on Linux for GIS environment  ? Provide steady state support - monitoring database backup completions, tablespace usage and growth in the databases, checking job completion statuses  ? Interfaced with customers, troubleshooting user access issues, completing requests for database performance reports Database Administrator UNISYS CORPORATION - Eagan, MN March 2001 to September 2006 RESPONSIBILITIES  - Steady state support - monitoring database backup completions, database capacity management, monitoring job completion statuses    ACCOMPLISHMENTS  • Created DBA Cookbook document outlining all responsibilities and procedures the Unisys Internal Financial DBA was to perform.  • Created training plan for overseas peers training them to perform duties and responsibilities equivalent to the US counterparts.executing steady state support for the financial internal stakeholders applications. Unix Systems Administrator UNISYS CORPORATION - Eagan, MN - March, MO October 1997 to March 2001 RESPONSIBILITIES  - Unix Team Leader for the Outsourcing Team for multiple outsourced customers coordinating user requests and jobs to team members to work on  - Installed and configured Veritas Cluster on EMC Storage Cabinets for Sun Solaris servers  - Participated in Request for Proposal reviews from potential outsource customers  - Assisted in customer migrations from their legacy systems to Unisys data center environment to current Oracle applications  - Participated in Project Management of customer migration with SDM and Project Manager  - Unix Y2K team member performing Y2K updates to corporate and outsource Unix Servers  - Performed capacity planning on existing database environments as well as for new implementations  - Created procedural documents of each database environment Education Associate in Computer Science Aims Community College - Greeley, CO 1980 Skills Database Administration (10+ years), Linux (4 years), Oracle Database (10+ years), Oracle Dba (10+ years), Sql Server (2 years) Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS - (Exerperience with the following)  Hardware: NAS, Veritas, AIX, Red Hat Linux, Oracle Enterprise Linux  Software: Windows 2003-2016 Servers, Oracle 8i, - 12c Releases, Perl knowledge, HTML knowledge, vi Editor, Shell scripting knowledge, RMan, SMO SnapMgr, NetApp, ASM, Enterprise Manager Grid Control, Splunk, Quest Toad for Oracle and MSSQL DBA, Atlassian Jira, Confluence, Kanban user, Embarcadero    Volunteer Opportunities  Employee Giving Garden volunteer for three seasons.  Participated in a volunteer event at an adult emergency shelter.  Volunteered at a local food shelf unloading pallets of food and stocking the store shelves.  Participated in Feed My Starving Children food packing group events through work and Church.  Parent volunteer at various figure skating events.