Owner/Operator Owner/Operator Owner/Operator - J3Schwartz Consulting Capitola, CA A dedicated and passionate IT Professional. Tenacious resourceful problem solver with 20+ years of experience: building robust local & remote networks, continually evaluating system and network security, providing energetic and comprehensive server & desktop support, and enabling secure services for reliable information delivery. Always focused on building meaningful relationships for delivering outstanding service, productivity, and growth. Work Experience Owner/Operator J3Schwartz Consulting February 2018 to Present Overview: Provide in-home technical services and training for (specifically) the senior community  • Home network, both wireless and wired, setup and support  • Desktop & laptop training, maintenance, and support for both Mac & PC  • Smart-TV and home theatre setup and support  • Smartphone training, setup, and support  • Backup and recovery  • Online security Manager The Dawn Thomas Team, Inc March 2016 to February 2018 Overview: IT & Infrastructure support, hardware (Mac) setup and support, application support  • Built and configured cloud-based phone system to ensure consistent & efficient call handling and routing with text messaging for mobile and desktop systems.  • Provision, maintain, & upgrade Mac based desktop and mobile devices.  • Setup & manage Google G-suite, Box.com, Slack, to ensure secure and reliable storage, communication & collaboration. Senior Systems Engineer Insight Global, Inc June 2014 to March 2016 Overview: Contractor providing technical support for multiple ongoing projects, infrastructure maintenance, and daily operations to support mobile gaming platform (GREE), code analysis VM farm (Synopsys)  • GREE: modify or create Puppet configurations to increase build efficiency and host reliability in AWS Mobile Gaming environment.  • GREE: create new and update existing systems and process documentation to ensure knowledge retention.  • GREE: manage developer and user setup and access to GIT, Jenkins, and AWS.  • Synopsys (originally Coverity, Inc.): build and configure on an as-needed basis: Unix, Linux, HP, IBM, Mac, Windows, virtual machines for code testing and analysis.  • Synopsys (originally Coverity, Inc.): build and configure on an as-needed basis: physical Ubuntu, Mac, and Windows servers for hosting VMware vSphere and Workstation virtualization software.  • Synopsys (originally Coverity, Inc.): manage and maintain all data center hardware comprised of NetApp storage, Supermicro, HP, IBM, Sun, and Mac hardware. Senior Systems Engineer DEEM, Inc September 2013 to March 2014 Overview: Team member collaborating to ensure maximum uptime and content delivery for SaaS environment  • Build, provision, and deploy (using Puppet) Ubuntu/Debian based vServers into 500+ production base, supporting DEEMS Commerce-as-a-service/micro services Cloud model.  • Manage, improve, and upgrade Nagios system/network/service monitoring software for maximum uptime.  • Maintain and update existing documentation and create new documents and procedures as needed. Senior Systems Engineer BT April 2009 to May 2013 Overview: manage the test, release, and deployment cycle for BT's next generation One Voice VIOP/Mobile telephony platform. Provide engineering and platform support for production platform for 99.999 uptime. Coordinate international engineering teams for both testing and deployment actions. Provide international on-call support to ensure maximum platform uptime.  • Test-Platform Manager: create test plan based on bug fixes and new features for 100% deadline delivery. Perform deployment of new platform binaries and qualify viability for production upgrade for 100% deadline delivery.  • Patch deployment: deploy patches into test environment, assess patch readinessand deploy to production if ready ensuring 99.999 uptime.  • Production release Manager: create and assess test plan, notify and get buy-in from UK, India, Brazil, and US teams. Schedule and run change based on pre-staged upgrade and tested back-out plan, ensuring 99.999 uptime.  • Training: Train UK engineering teams on platform deployment and management to meet business goals for under budget on time delivery.  • Documentation: Maintain and update platform documentation and create new documents and procedures. System & Network Administrator for Corporate IT Alacritech, Inc August 1999 to February 2009 Overview: energetically managed the growth of the corporate IT infrastructure to support development of the next generation networking devices taking advantage of TOE (TCP Off-load Engine) technology. Provide Desktop support for local and remote corporate offices and employees.  • Infrastructure: built, managed, and supported ALL aspects of systems and data networks using CISCO and Microsoft devices.  • User base: provisioned and supported ALL local and remote user systems and devices.  • Communications: built, provisioned, and supported ShoreTel IP based phone system.  • Documentation: wrote and maintained all documentation to support networks, systems, storage, databases, IP phone systems, backups, and client server virus/spam abatement software. Wrote process and procedure to attain ISO 900 certification.  • Corporate Systems: built and maintained both local and remote Active Directory environments.  • Legal: Successfully recovered and restored legacy IP to support legal and finance departments. Systems Administrator II SGI September 1997 to August 1999 Overview: build test environments to support 3rd/4th tier engineering support cases relating to SGI hardware and IRIX operating system. Maintain lab hardware for accurate and dependable reproduction of customer environments for both public and private sectors. Provide internal support for division infrastructure. Participate in an on-call rotation to support 3rd/4th tier engineering teams.  • Test environments: build & provision systems, storage, and networks, based on the needs of each unique support case.  • System readiness: test each bench system for boot readiness and adherence to its original hardware version.  • Network Readiness: run port scans and throughput tests to ensure network switches are working to lab specification.  • Inventory Management: quarterly evaluate current inventory and recommend replacement hardware or new hardware based on budget.  • Documentation: create new documentation based on updated hardware, business goals, and test environment procedures. Education High school or equivalent Skills It Specialist, Information Technology, Help Desk, Desktop Support, Network Support, Computer Repair Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/jonathanebanschwartz Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/eo4gvaqfgibnf0hw Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/aok4isyarrwddzed Customer Focus & Orientation — Highly Proficient August 2019 Responding to customer situations with sensitivity. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/p1cdwbw5-0i-1eho Proficiency with Microsoft Office: Mail & Calendar (Mac) — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate’s proficiency in using Microsoft Office Mail and Calendar tools to manage their workload. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qa4l3syqvs4igi-y Proficiency with Microsoft Office: Mail & Calendar (PC) — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate’s proficiency in using Microsoft Office Mail and Calendar tools to manage their workload. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/pu3yc2pqxn9xuuz Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.