Project Manager, Radiology Analyst Project Manager, Radiology Analyst Project Manager, Radiology Analyst - COVENANT HEALTH Woodbury, GA Work Experience Project Manager, Radiology Analyst COVENANT HEALTH - Knoxville, TN September 2018 to Present • Upgraded and deployed 60 McKesson HMI PACS workstations at nine hospitals and four diagnostic centers across east Tennessee.  • Participated in second Cerner upgrade in September 2018  • Project manager for Radimetrics (software to manage radiation dosage prescribed to patients) install across enterprise. This is the largest Radimetrics to date nationally.  • Troubleshooting interface failures from previous Cerner upgrade  • Project manager for PACS context merge services merging more than 3 ordering systems into one ordering system.  • Project manager for image migration from 13 individual physician practices to McKesson Radiology PACS; retrieve studies from six clinical sites to the main enterprise PACS, merging or adding patients in the enterprise system.  • Project manager for database cleanup to merge duplicate user accounts.  • Verified patient merges and image moves on production system.  • Working with radiologists across the company to update and optimize display protocols.  • Clean up hosts files and assist in preparations for upcoming PACS upgrade. Project Manager NORTHEAST GEORGIA MEDICAL CENTER July 2017 to August 2018 • Hired during an enterprise migration from Paragon to Epic 8 weeks before go-live to:  • Migrate radiology images from Agfa to McKesson HMI PACS  • Migrate cardiology images from Agfa and CareStream PACS to Merge PACS.  • Migrate modalities from acquired hospital in Winder, GA previously on Agfa, to enterprise system McKesson PACS in Gainesville, GA  • Install new PowerScribe 360 4.0 replacing Fusion voice recognition system for Enterprise system-wide.  • Install vRad system in Winder, GA hospital  • Train physician, clinical and clerical staff on PowerScribe (20 radiologists, 5 cardiologists, 3 editors)  • Train management and personnel on report for both new systems.  • Work directly with physicians, clinical staff, directors, VP's in any location during extensive go-live process as well as provide support for both PowerScribe and PACS.  Interim PACS Administrator  • Maintain and support the McKesson HMI PACS system  • Maintain all integrated radiology systems (PowerScribe, OrthoView, TeraRecon, PowerShare, etc.).  • Lead upgrade on various systems  • Develop the documentation for each system including troubleshooting guides, training documentation and hospital policies.  • Serve as primary troubleshooter for all problems pertaining to all PACS systems whether hardware, software, network or DICOM modality issue.  • Repair and maintain hardware such as Rimage, workstations and DICOM systems.  • Train physicians, clinical and clerical staff on all of these systems.  • Run all management reports on all systems.  • Work directly with physicians, clinical staff, directors, and external customers in any location in any imaging center or hospital within NGHS.  • Plan migration of images from physician groups to HMI PACS system.  • Work with analysts to trouble shoot and solve any issues remaining from migration from Paragon to Epic.  • Support and attend weekly tumor conferences, monthly chest conferences and ad hoc meeting requiring images. Systems administrator, Radiology Analyst and PACS Administrator ST FRANCIS HOSPITAL - Columbus, GA June 2005 to July 2017 • Install, upgrade and maintained the McKesson HMI PACS system and its separate domain.  • Upgraded and maintained the Siemens' syngo.workflow Radiology Information System.  • Installed, upgraded and maintained all integrated radiology systems (PowerScribe, OrthoView, Vitrea and Syngo.via 3D software, PowerShare, etc.)  • Served as GE Centricity CPACS Administrator  • Responsible for Muse hardware support as well as system upgrade.  • Developed and maintained the documentation for each system including troubleshooting guides, training documentation and hospital policies.  • Project Manager for all installs and upgrades of these systems.  • Served as the primary troubleshooter for all problems pertaining to imaging systems whether hardware, software, network or DICOM modality issue.  • Trained physicians, clinical staff and directors and external customers on all Imaging Services systems.  • Supervised associated PACS and PowerScribe support staff.  • Developed ran all management reports on all systems.  • Wrote and maintain SQL reports for the Siemens RIS.  • Work directly with physicians, clinical staff, directors, administration and external customers in any location in the hospital including OR, ER, and administration. System Administrator for Tamtron pathology system WEST GEORGIA MEDICAL CENTER - LaGrange, GA June 2000 to June 2005 laboratory system and nephrology system.  • Managed and maintained peripheral equipment and software associated with each system. Network Manager UPSON REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER - Thomaston, GA 1998 to June 2000 responsible for PC's and network issues within the hospital system.  • Analyst for Meditech blood bank Laboratory Meditech module. Service and Systems Administrator WEST CENTRAL HEALTH DISTRICT OF THE GEORGIA DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH 1995 to 1998 • Service and system administrator for 16 counties in the region with a population of over 350,000.  • Traveling to each county health department  • Manage and maintain systems and equipment. Systems Customer Engineer IBM 1981 to 1991 • System management including Installations; system preventative maintenance to minimize system downtime and service calls and support when needed.  • Working with customers on an ongoing basis to assess needs and plan a customized system growth.  • Maintain service records and documentation.  • Maintain a relationship with customers to ensure desired outcomes are on track and expectations are clear. Provide a face to the customer to ensure a since of confidence with the service they were receiving.  • Provide guidance and support to junior field service engineers and participate in branch programs to maintain the highest company rankings in customer satisfaction and employee morale. Education Associates degree in Electronics in Electronics BESSEMER STATE TECHNICAL COLLEGE - Bessemer, AL Baccalaureate degree in Computer Management in Computer Management KENNESAW STATE COLLEGE Skills Project manager, Dicom, Meditech, Powerscribe, Sql, HL7, Networking, Aix, Blood bank, Report writing, Writing skills, Training, Maintenance Additional Information SKILLS & ABILITIES  PAC, CPACS, PowerScribe, PowerShare and RIS Management, Hardware and Software installation, maintenance and troubleshooting, DICOM, HL7, Hospital systems, Domain and networking. Project manager for installations, upgrades and implementations of hardware and software systems. SQL Report writing skills. MUSE Diagnostic hardware support. Lab and Blood Bank systems in Meditech. IBM Systems Hardware installations and troubleshooting. IBM AIX training and A+ Certification.