Job Seeker Work Experience Daniels Associates (DAI) 2018 to Present • Currently providing 2nd shift operational support for batch processing of finance, accounting, and payroll databases.  • Submit daily Schedules, tracking start and end times of each job as well as completion condition codes. Support programming staff when abends/failures occur, providing advice and assistance for troubleshooting, diagnosing, and resolving customer application problems. Issue recovery/restarts as warranted.  • Interact with outside locations to verify external dataset (SDA) submissions. Certified Nutritional Health & Life Coach 2016 to Present Better Be Coaching, LLC    • Worked with 12 of the top nutritional experts in the world. Experienced with innovative coaching methods, and practical lifestyle management techniques, and over 100 dietary theories;  • Provided adaptive, customized one-on-one coaching for clients to improve health, wellness and productivity.  • Created and facilitated workshops in diverse areas of alternative health and fitness.  • Coached young women to become active working self-supporting models. Mentored to build skills in posing, lighting, working with photographers of the opposite sex, and building portfolios. Principal Systems Administrator LauraGTherault@gmail.com 2013 to 2017 Liberty Mutual Insurance    • Enjoyed acting as a Servant Leader and performing coaching/mentoring to help team members achieve highest rated team performance as well as individual rating measures.  • Tracked and distributed relevant metrics and reports to show team progress, and removing impediments as required.  • Guided team in identifying improvement areas and solving impediments, to increase team effectiveness.  • Worked together with team to manage a Product Backlog of requirements to support development activities related to the project roadmap.  • Acknowledged for technical consultation, mentoring, and leadership in identifying, implementing, and documenting new opportunities for development potential.  • Acted as Principal Business Analyst. Spearheaded gathering of requirements, user stories, and detailed specifications for completing comprehensive analysis, building test case scenarios, and managing project coordination. Senior Systems Administrator 2007 to 2013 • Dramatically improved automated reporting process for team's metrics to management, including statistical graphs, saving over 20 hours of manual (three Full Time Employees) work per month.  • Created and maintained detailed documentation of standards and procedures, ensuring a consistent, proactive, and across-the-board approach to providing support. Led efforts to maximize use of technology to encourage effective and efficient collaboration.  • Coordinated defects and worked with team to identify problems and deploy fixes.  • Primary Coordinator for 2 Disaster Recovery exercises annually, spanning 6 mainframes, AS400, and Unix/Windows Servers. Worked closely with application teams during tests and throughout the year to ensure requirements and documentation were kept current. Provided detailed documents for each exercise with specifics for batch application jobs/cycles to be run, and for Infrastructure recovery detailing systems and environments to be recovered.  • Improved weekly IPL (including full volume backups) procedure, resulting in overall time to complete from 3 hours, to less than 30 minutes per Lpar (Logical Partition). Produced new code that allowed for 'hands-off' operation.  • Led intensive projects to add new, innovative automation to existing tools, resulting in streamlined work intake processes.  • Recognized as Top 10% Contributor, "Significantly Exceeded Expectations (Top Ten)", and received maximum award for performance. Senior Technical Analyst Mainframe Systems 1999 to 2007 Technical Analyst, Mainframe Systems; Lead Computer Operator  • Utilized a large IBM Mainframe environment with the MVS/ESA (JES2) Operating System. Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/lauratherault