LEAD NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR LEAD NETWORK <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> LEAD NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR Fort Smith, AR With more than 15 years of combined experience leading and planning Network infrastructures, projects, and operations, I am now seeking the opportunity to join a new team as Network Engineer or similar position. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience LEAD NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR C&C Market Research - Fort Smith, AR 2015 to Present • Specifically hired to bring the company to TTPN.org compliance, implementing a MS AD Server, creating / launching site hub and spoke via IPSEC VPN, and implementing cyber security measures.  • Identified and eliminated points of failure and sub-par equipment, decreasing support calls and improving overall network functionality.  • Plays a key role in administering the network for all users, holding accountability for everything from email to technical support.  • Created and implemented a new ticketing system that allowed for increased response time and team accountability, Response time increased 80%.  • Facilitated process improvement by eliminating redundancies in workflow. NETWORK ENGINEER Quadrivium - Springdale, AR 2012 to 2015 • Converted simple workgroup networks to AD domain networks, and workstations to servers.  • Collaborated with the others on the IT team to design, develop and implement the internal datacenter.  • Kept network downtime to a minimum and increased ease of transition for users, ensuring decreased support requests.  • Became well-versed in VMWare, vCenter and other software systems. Systems Engineer clientQsolutions - Little Rock, AR 2011 to 2012 • Had a 25+ client list consisting of networks between 5 and 150 users.  • Maintained their Active Directory, DHCP, DNS, SQL, and Exchange servers. I also maintained any and all network equipment including firewalls, spam filters, and network switches.  • There was never an issue I couldn't solve. Owner/ Systems Engineer Lacuna Bridge Technologies - Little Rock, AR 2009 to 2012 • Started this company with a single client and grew my client list to 15 companies.  • Had a client list of 15 consisting of networks between 5 and 150 users.  • Maintained their Active Directory, DHCP, DNS, SQL, and Exchange servers. I also maintained any and all network equipment including firewalls, spam filters, and network switches.  • There was never an issue I couldn't solve. Systems Engineer Quadrivium - Springdale, AR 2004 to 2009 • Had a 30+ client list consisting of networks between 5 and 150 users.  • Maintained their Active Directory, DHCP, DNS, SQL, and Exchange servers. I also maintained any and all network equipment including firewalls, spam filters, and network switches.  • Redesigned incident prone networks and implemented the solution.  • There was never an issue I couldn't solve. Education Bachelor's in Information Systems University of Arkansas - Fayetteville, AR Skills Active Directory, Networking, Technical Support, Windows, Windows 7, Vmware, Microsoft Office, Security