Solutions Architect Solutions Architect Solutions Architect Grand Rapids, MI Dedicated Solutions Architect and continuous learner with 20 years of IT experience covering a multitude of disciplines driving positive customer outcomes. Trusted bridge builder between IT and executive management to establish business continuity, achieve business goals, and effectively communicate with diverse technical/non-technical stakeholders. Served in the United States Navy for 10 years and was awarded several Naval awards and citations for outstanding performance and dedication. Participated in operations in Afghanistan supporting Special Forces and US Intelligence Agencies. Work Experience Solutions Architect Global IT consulting firm - Ada, MI 2018 to 2019 Collaborated with Sales Leadership to create winning sales strategies. Effectively communicated with multiple customer stakeholders (C level management, VP's, Direct level). Designed robust solutions addressing customer's needs based on efficiency, scalability, and reliability. Developed Bills of Material including statements of work, detailing level of effort required to complete customer projects utilizing OEM solution configuration tools.    Completed OEM partner certifications to maintain Trace3's partner level (VMware, Dell, HP, Veeam). During tenure at Trace3, completed over 200 unique projects, covering multiple disciplines including the following: Compute/Storage/HCI/Backup and Disaster Recovery, Data Center power, Software Defined Storage    Prepared and presented external OEM (Dell, HP, Veeam, ) demos and training sessions with specific architecture focusing on solving client business challenges with technology. Provided expert recommendations utilizing new technology spanning multiple disciplines to support the growth of the client's business and to improve business continuity.    Developed technical scope and levels of effort required to complete Statements of Work Conducted formal/informal training with Sales staff to improve Sales effectiveness. Managed projects to completion and acted as technical advisor to Project Managers to keep customer projects on schedule. Collaborated with solution integrators to answer any project questions and provide technical guidance if needed to assure solution completion. Senior Systems Engineer Cincinnati Bell Technology Solutions - Grand Rapids, MI 2014 to 2017 Led client's full, seamless cutover from parent organization to client's own domain namespace. Managed Windows Server and Domain Controller 2012 farm containing over 200 servers, 50 domain controllers, and greater than 20k users    Created robust WSUS patching schedule and provided weekly reports to maintain patching continuity. Led weekly project management meetings to employer and client leadership detailing project milestones and ensuring timely completion of projects.    Developed multiple runbooks and Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) detailing domain migration, L3/L4 support, and standard builds for all domain controllers, including backup and restore features. Collaborated with client to perform physical to virtual (P2V) migrations of 45% of customer's domain controller farm reducing annual costs and consolidating data center footprint.    Managed global data migration project that created $3 million in annual cost savings, exceeding initial project goal of $1-2 million. Consolidated data by facilitating backup restores, storage replication of over 250 terabytes of vital customer data into EMC Isilon Storage units located in North America and Europe. Conducted weekly meetings with business stakeholders providing updates for projects. Built custom spreadsheet to track monetary savings, total storage migrated and data migration milestones Infrastructure Engineer TEKSystems/Dewpoint - City of Lansing Data Center - Lansing, MI 2013 to 2013 Contracted to City of Lansing to design robust IT infrastructure consisting of server, storage, LAN, and WAN networks. Revitalized aging infrastructure by establishing robust patching schedules utilizing WSUS.    Created new test/dev server and storage environment to allow for application testing before being put in production. Spearheaded Windows 2008/2012 server virtualization project utilizing VMware to reduce physical footprint and increase server uptime by 40%.    Improved network stability by over 15% installing and configuring hardware and virtual components within 1st month of project. Created best practices training document for all City of Lansing employees to maintain business continuity and to allow for continued cost savings. Lead Systems Engineer III CACI International Inc - Aurora, CO 2009 to 2013 Contracted to NSA/CSS Colorado and NSA/CSS Hawaii in classified systems design/implementation/administration. Maintained Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented Information (TS/SCI) with Full Scope Polygraph from 2009 until 2013. Optimized user experience and decreased application expenses by streaming over 200 applications, virtualizing multiple server/desktop builds utilizing VMware suite of products along with Citrix XenDesktop and XenApp.    Selected to lead Agency’s thin client project containing over 500 clients creating desktop cost savings of $1.2 million over a 2-year period. Managed clients utilizing Hewlett Packard Device Manager (HPDM). Maintained custom thin client images for rapid deployment capabilities. Received letter of appreciated and recognized as 1st site to successfully implement HPDM and thin client initiative and served as model for future Agency site deployments    Collaborated with client’s Server Administrators to manage Windows Server 2003/2008 R2 environment to allow for seamless transition for customers to new facility. Prepared custom virtual desktop groups/permissions/access to virtual applications necessary for new agency employees and for new building transition Senior Systems Administrator Salient CRGT - Fort Bragg, NC 2007 to 2008 Installed, configured, and maintained IT infrastructure providing full server/network/storage capabilities with 24/7 support for mobile IT shelter supporting elite Special Forces in Afghanistan. Achieved highest uptime of any classified site in the region. Recognized with 2 letters of appreciation for customer service, attention to detail, and system availability. Maintained TS/SCI clearance during deployment.     Trained and mentored 15 team members/military personnel on technical infrastructure, best practices, and access to data for military operations. Maintained classified Windows SharePoint repository to provide Battle Commanders consolidated document management.    Designed and installed local IT infrastructure consisting of Dell servers, EMC SAN storage, backup and replication and collaborated with Network Engineers to maintain Cisco top of rack, aggregate, and core routers and switches. Information Systems Technician First Class United States Naval Services - Multiple regional and global locations 1998 to 2007 Assisted Comptroller in budget planning, procurement of IT department's $1.5 million budget. Supervised 12-member System Administration Team ensuring system continuity of $4.5 million Network Operations Center. Maintained Windows NT/2000 Server and storage environment (AD/DNS/DHCP/GPO records) Education Bachelor's in Computer Information Systems Northern Michigan University - Marquette, MI 2003 to 2006 Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), Active Directory (10+ years), DNS (10+ years), Office 365 (3 years), Vmware (7 years), Sharepoint (5 years), Hyper Converged Infrastructure (2 years), vSAN (2 years), Software Defined Storage (2 years), Windows 10 (4 years), Windows 7 (6 years), Customer Service (10+ years), Budgeting (3 years), Cisco (5 years), Asset Management (10+ years), Windows Server 2008 (10+ years), Windows Server 2012 (6 years), Windows Server 2016 (2 years), Veeam Backup and Replication (2 years), Virtualization (8 years), Business Continuity (4 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/christopher-cain-32601311 Military Service Branch: Navy Service Country: United States Rank: E6/IT1 1998 to 2007 Information Systems Technician 1st Class Commendations: Surface Warfare  Navy Commendation Medal  Multiple Navy Achievement Medals  Global War on Terrorism Medals    Numerous other Medals and Citations Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) 2006 to Present Windows XP Microsoft Certified Systems Administrator (MCSA) 2006 to Present Windows Server 2003 Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) July 2011 to Present Windows 7 Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (MCSE) 2006 to Present Windows Server 2003 Microsoft Certified IT Professional (MCITP) July 2011 to Present Enterprise Admin Windows Server 2008 VMware Certified Professional Foundations 6.7 2019 to 2021 VCP Foundations 6.7 VMware Sales Professional (VSP) 2019 to 2020 Entire VMware Sales Professional track VMware Technical Sales Professional (VTSP) 2019 to 2020 Entire VMware Technical Sales Professional track Veeam Technical Sales Professional (VMTSP) 2019 to 2020 Veeam Backup and Replication version 9.5 update 4 CompTIA A+ 2003 to Present CompTIA Network+ 2003 to Present CompTIA Server+ 2003 to Present CompTIA Security+ 2006 to Present Groups West Michigan Mustang Club 2016 to Present National Bass Anglers Association 2013 to Present