UNIX/LINUX Systems Administrator UNIX/LINUX <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> UNIX/LINUX Systems Administrator Snellville, GA Technical Summary    Automation: Red hat Ansible, Splunk    Hardware: Fujitsu PP 650,450,250, HP Proliant DL 3 series 2-6cores, Sun Sparc M3000,T5220, 6800, v480, v440, v450, v250 and T4 and T5 Oracle Solaris servers, M series Oracle, Exadata, Dell M620 Blades and Dell PowerEdge R820 and 910    Operating systems: RedHat Enterprise Linux 5-7, Oracle Solaris 8-11,   Oracle OEL, openSUSE 11.X    Software: WebLogic 8-10, Veritas VxFS and VxVM, LVM, VMWARE   vSphere 6.0. Veritas Cluster Server (VCS), ZFS, Sun   Management Center, HP Server Automation (HPSA),   LDOMS, Solaris Zones, EMC Powerpath, Oracle ASMlib    Appliances: F5 BigIP 9.4.3, MRV InReach 4140 48pt, NetBackup 8.0     Monitoring: Nimsoft, Spectrum, Remedy and ServiceNow  and Ticketing Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UNIX/LINUX Systems Administrator ENSONO - Norcross, GA December 2013 to Present • Provide full systems administration support for Solaris 10 and RHEL 6-7 physical and virtual servers. Troubleshoot and resolve all system issues. Consult for system migrations and upgrades. Build and maintain Solaris and RedHat servers using Sun's virtualization platform. Assist DBA's, SAN and Applications personnel. Versed in ITIL processes.  • Patch and maintain flash archive images for Solaris and RedHat 6 and 7 servers.  • Support RedHat 6-7 servers, Veritas 3.5-4.1 Volume manager and file system for Solaris. Veritas NetBackup server client operations. Part of 24/7 on-call support rotation. UNIX/LINUX Systems Administrator Southern Company/CCCI - Atlanta, GA August 2011 to December 2013 • UNIX/LINUX Installation, configuration and support for the servers in the Southern Company umbrella of servers (500+ physical servers 200+ virtual).  • Configure servers for Solaris Patching, Veritas Installation, ZFS and mirroring.  • Provide support of installing and upgrading VAS 3.5 Quest Software - Identity and Access Management Software.  • Support storage teams with VMAX LUN migrations, Veritas path issues and database teams on servers running Veritas with VCS and VEA.  • Build Virtual Solaris and RedHat Linux servers with VMware vSphere creating and supporting LDOMS running Solaris 10.  • Build and troubleshoot Linux Servers and Solaris servers with Kickstart and Jumpstart using HPSA provisioning tool and provide Software support, configuration, performance tuning and administration for systems ranging from SunFire Series to Oracle M Series, T Series servers and Exadata servers. UNIX/LINUX Systems Administrator Mirant Corp - Dunwoody, GA August 2008 to August 2011 • RHEL 4,5 (120 servers) Sun Solaris (350 servers)  • Responsible for maintaining SSL certificates for company wide SSL certs which were signed by Verisign and local CA with our F5 load balancer.  • Built out Solaris 8 and 10 systems on both Fujitsu and Sun Sparc platforms using our enterprise jumpstart server. Built and installed RHEL 4/5 using kickstart server.  • Daily duties included adding and removing DNS entries on our Solaris 10 server running bind 9.4.3.  • Performed server maintenance on RedHat Satellite Server.  • Worked with Storage team allocating storage for Veritas VxFS file systems.  • Maintained every aspect of the OS including creating users, installing both security patches and bug fixes.  • Installed setup and deployed Oracle WebLogic 8-10 domain environments. Actively maintained DEV, QA, UA and Prod environments for most enterprise applications. Provided WebLogic application support for users for 200 deployed domains. Tuned WebLogic applications to perform better with Oracle databases. Configured WebLogic to authenticate users via company LDAP and weblogic authentication.  • Created virtualized systems with VMware vSphere Client and with Solaris containers. Senior Unix Network Operations Engineer TTV - Duluth, GA August 2004 to August 2008 • Provide Tier 3 UNIX Systems Administration for Solaris 8-10, RedHat 9 servers.  • Provide technical support in a proactive environment to U.S. and international Video-On-Demand providers using TANDBERGTV OpenSteam BMS, AMS, Catchers, Pitchers, and Xport systems.  • Proficient with Oracle Database architecture, DBA Skills, SQL Skills.  • Respond to Nagios and NetCool alerts by verifying and/or resolving reported systems issues.  • Configure DNS; add/ users, groups rights and permissions.  • Troubleshooting, and Maintaining Complex TCP/IP Networks, Routing, and Physical Network Topologies  • Performing Kernel upgrades and patches installations on both RedHat Linux and Solaris 10 280r, v240 and v490 servers  • Providing after hours on call support on a rotating basis with other staff members to ensure a 24x7 Carrier Class monitoring process. Reactive Unix Administrator Hewlett-Packard - Dunwoody, GA November 2001 to August 2004 • Provided Tier II Systems Administration of HP 11.X and Solaris 7-8 Unix Systems.  • Perform initial problem analysis to determine root cause of service interruption from ITO Remedy generated cases and develop an action plan to restore service.  • Maintain ongoing log of actions taken within an issue and handle problem notification to IT Customers and Management. Worked with Network, Database, and technical services teams to resolve problems.  • Add, modify, delete users or reset user passwords; mount disks and file systems; add printers using Jetdadmin and restart down UNIX processes.  • Respond to server Omniback II backup failures and recover failures. Also perform backups, restores using Omniback II and Legato backup utilities.  • Interfaced with hardware vendor field engineers on hardware problems.  • Responsible for maintaining relevant application, system and process documentation. Unix Systems Administrator ITC^DeltaCom - Atlanta, GA October 2000 to 2001 • Administrator for 120+ Solaris and SGI servers on all issues of Performance, Security and network related duties.  • Implemented and managed disaster recovery procedures using Legato software on all UNIX servers.  • Created system wide documentation of all UNIX servers.  • Assisted DNS administrator in troubleshooting email and DNS related problems.  • Upgraded software and applied system patches on all Solaris and Sgi UNIX servers.  • Built Solaris servers using Solstice Disk Suite for disk mirroring to create redundancy for shipping to remote customer sites.  • Assisted Internet Engineers with issues with LDAP mail servers running SQL databases on maintenance and recovery and sendmail related problems.  • Provided complete systems inventory for all UNIX hardware and maintained service contract information for all UNIX hardware. Unix Systems Administrator Spelman College - Atlanta, GA 2000 to 2000 • Reconfigured and upgraded 45+ Solaris lab servers, Installed JetAdmin software.  • Updated all UNIX campus servers with new OS software and patches.  • Assisted in development of system disaster backup and recovery plan for UNIX.  • Managed and corrected disk-space related issues on NFS server home directories.  • Administered, installed, configured, and resolved issues concerning down SGI  • UNIX systems. Reinstalled systems and replaced new hardware on these systems.  • Assisted in development plan for consolidating UNIX and NT systems to  • better functionality and to promote saving money.  • Documented functionality, purpose and configuration, of all UNIX/Network systems.  • Consolidated and reconfigured 3Com HUBS and Switches campus wide. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration in Business Administration Ferris State University Skills LINUX, SOLARIS, SUN, POWERPATH, VERITAS VXFS, Red Hat, Redhat, Scripting, System Administrator, Ansible, Linux Administrator, Vmware, Veritas, SAN, Shell