Network Administrator/Windows Systems Administrator Network <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Windows <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator/Windows Systems Administrator Grove City, OH Work Experience Network Administrator/Windows Systems Administrator Jegs June 2018 to June 2019 • Systems administrator responsible for 400 end users and all infrastructure  • UCS storage management  • HPE Nimble storage management  • Managing break fix, patch management, backup, restore and DR for all Windows Servers (physical and VM)  • Support for all software install, troubleshooting and upgrades for all end users.  • Microsoft Exchange support for all mailboxes, distribution groups and security groups.  • Microsoft Exchange patching and updating with DAG and 8 Mailstores  • Active Directory management for Group Policies, users, DNS, DHCP, etc. Windows Systems Administrator Henry Schein Animal Health March 2018 to June 2018 • Managing break fix tickets for Windows Servers (physical, VMM, and HyperV) in Aldon Community Manager  • Monitor and manage physical and Virtual machines with Remote Desktop Connection Manager  • Monitoring performance in Solarwinds  • Managing backups in Quest Rapid Recovery  • Monitoring replication of Nimble storage  • Patch management with WSUS, SCCM and Goverlan Windows Systems Engineer Vijaya for IBM at State of Ohio Computer Center May 2017 to March 2018 • Provisioning and Decommissioning Virtual and Physical Windows Servers  • Troubleshooting and working with many customers on technical issues with networking, VMs, Physical servers and active directory  • Experience in Netcool, IBM Bigfix, ServiceNow, Solarwinds  • Managing backup and restore in Commvault Franklin County Auditor The Oneida Group June 2016 to May 2017 • Windows Administration including all servers, physical and Virtual.    • Successfully implemented Office 365 Exchange Online Protection and Migrating Exchange to Office 365  • Currently designing and implementing data center migration to Expedient.  • Designed, built and implemented RDS environment.  • Managing the Zerto process for synchronization to Expedient.  • Configure, monitor and maintain VMware hosts, clusters, servers and workstations.    December 1998 - March 2016 Information Technology - Franklin County Auditor  • Setup and configuration of VMware cluster and Storage Area Network (SAN)    • Worked cooperatively with various vendors  • Migrated existing production and disaster recovery servers to VM cluster  • Configure, monitor and maintain VMware hosts, clusters, servers and workstations  • Monitor and manage data and storage on SAN  • Application support for a variety of Auditor's office core resources including;  * OnBase | RMS | iasWorld | MUNIS | Weights and Measures, Licensing  • Implement and maintain all desktop pc's, workstations, laptops and servers including budgeting, quotes, purchasing, maintenance and end of life.    ? Experienced in all operating systems including Server 2012 and Windows 10.  ? Active Directory configuration and support for all users.  ? Provide all hardware and software support for all IT equipment including help desk and on-site service. This includes approximately 140 on site users, 30 offsite users and 40 servers, including placing service calls and managing vendors when needed.  ? Managing updates including remotely updating clients to IE 11 and Office 2013  ? Configure, monitor and maintain physical servers.  ? Troubleshoot and maintain all connectivity with network switches and routers.  ? Security, patch management, and firmware updates for all devices.  ? Manage and maintain Backup and Disaster Recovery for all data.  ? Configure and manage Antivirus server which covers all devices on the network.    • Interface with the Franklin County Data Center to troubleshoot and resolve any I.T. issues with both applications and hardware.    • Provide off-site support for Auditor's office events, and outside vendors working on behalf of the office.    • Distribute and maintain 60 Verizon devices including Aircards, MiFis, tablets and phones.    • Repair and maintain all peripheral devices including printers, plotters, scanners, projectors and TV monitors.    • Data duplication and distribution. This includes CD/DVD burning and printing.    • Graphics design and production for large format plotters.    • Maintain and inventory all consumable supplies. Customer Service Representative Pitney Bowes March 1986 to December 1998 Territory Management of all Pitney Bowes equipment, providing technical assistance  and onsite repair    • Regional instructor to train service representatives on new and current equipment.    • Train and mentor new service reps for territory and call management. Education Associates Degree in Electronic Engineering Columbus Technical Institute High School diploma Bishop Ready High School - Columbus, OH