Infrastructure Systems Administrator Infrastructure <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Infrastructure Systems Administrator - North Carolina General Assembly Selma, NC Work Experience Infrastructure Systems Administrator North Carolina General Assembly - Raleigh, NC July 2016 to Present Automated management of approximately 80 servers and 1000 desktop and laptop computers. Remote management, support and updating of Windows Servers and workstations. Responsible for design, deployment, upgrade and maintenance of all desktop operating systems and software. Implementation and ongoing management of IT asset management and desktop data protection systems. Management of IT service desk systems. IT Specialist Town of Smithfield - Smithfield, NC November 2012 to July 2016 Responsibility for all design, installation and support of desktop computer systems and network servers in a 100+-user environment. Design and management of municipal government website. Administration of Office 365, Exchange and Sharepoint. Support of security, video surveillance, audio/visual and telephone systems. Video production design and editing. P.E.G. cable channel operation. Generation and publication of public-facing media and informational content. Senior Systems Engineer Nortel Networks - Durham, NC February 2006 to October 2011 Service Restoration and Support Responsibility for system administration in global data center environments. Mixed server environment including up to 2,000 servers running Windows, VM Ware, Solaris, AIX, HP-UX, and Red Hat Linux. Specialization in Windows operating systems and related hardware. Initiation of escalation for service outages. Coordination with hardware vendors for repair (break/fix) activities. Triage and escalation of service outages for return to service within SLA targets. Senior Imaging Systems Engineer Blue Cross Blue Shield of North Carolina - Durham, NC August 2004 to February 2006 Third-level support of FileNet Imaging systems including UNIX and Windows based FileNet applications. Design and implementation of FileNet based solutions and system updates. Responsible for designing, building, and supporting Windows Server-based application servers for the imaging environment. Support and diagnostics of Imaging system hardware including servers, OSAR's and optical scanners. FileNet System Administrator Wachovia - Raleigh, NC November 1998 to August 2004 Support and administration of FileNet digital imaging systems including scanners, OSARs and desktop and server applications. Second tier application support of production PCs, support of development staff, creation of standard desktop software images, evaluation of new products, software testing, application rollout coordination, creation of automated software installation routines, electronic software distribution coordination. Education Bachelor's in Religion Liberty University - Lynchburg, VA 2015 Associate in Interdisciplinary Studies Liberty University - Lynchburg, VA 2015 Associate in Electronics Engineering Technology ITT Technical Institute - Nashville, TN 1998 Skills Active Directory, System Admin, Vmware, System Administrator, Microsoft SCCM, Windows Server, Windows, Windows Core OS, WSUS, JIRA, Office 365, Microsoft Azure, Azure, Powershell, Adobe Creative Suite, Exchange Server, Sharepoint, SCCM