Senior Linux Systems Engineer Senior Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Senior Linux Systems Engineer Lincoln, CA Improve the efficiency and effectiveness of system and application life-cycle management through the creation of an integrated and automated tool-chain. Explore, develop, and implement new methods of improving operations through the research and integration of new technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Linux Systems Engineer Williams-Sonoma - Rocklin, CA August 2015 to June 2019 • Primarily delivered Linux systems to internal customers comprising compute, storage, and network infrastructure that met standards of security and compliance. Provided complete Linux operating system life-cycle management, from initial build/deployment through decommission. Routinely improved operations infrastructure tool-chain through integration and automation of routine tasks.  • Managed and maintained distributed Puppet Enterprise platform consisting of master of masters, compile masters, agents, and GitHub Enterprise repositories containing puppet code base. Performed ongoing Puppet Enterprise infrastructure maintenance and software/hardware upgrades (v2016.4.x, v2018.1.x, cpu/memory/storage) to meet increasing volume of managed systems. Refactored puppet codebase with a focus on improving code quality and organization, removing unused classes, conversion to PDK format, compliance with style guide, and removal of deprecated language features.  • Lead NagiosXI deployment project for entire Linux population. Integrated Nagios agent installation and configuration into Cloudbolt deployment and Puppet configuration management platforms such that Linux baseline monitoring service checks for new builds were automatically created within NagiosXI.  • Performed implementation of Red Hat Satellite 6.2 and migration of Red Hat Enterprise Linux systems from Satellite 5.x to Satellite 6.2.  • Solved day-to-day tasks using scripting languages, i.e., the configuration of new storage volumes on Linux systems, generating unique hostnames based on established hostname standards, and creating bootable Iso images for VMware template creation or physical system builds.  • Coordinated with the Security and Compliance teams the development of an Enterprise Linux Standardized Operating Environment (SOE) based on the CIS benchmarks, that can be quickly updated and automatically deployed as VMware templates or physical builds.  • Advocated Puppet to internal business partners with a focus on increasing Puppet adoption and knowledge transfer. Facilitated coordination, planning, development and deployment of new puppet modules, roles, and profiles that provide new functionality and meet the dynamic business needs. Resolved escalations from Linux level 2 administrators and assisted level 3 engineering peers. Linux Systems Administrator INE, Inc - Reno, NV January 2014 to June 2015 • Responsible for the build, configuration, management, performance, and troubleshooting of Linux systems, applications, and services including corporate website, blog, in-house applications, databases, and infrastructure services across development, staging, and production environments.  • Automated Linux system build, application and package deployments, configuration management, and command execution using Kickstart, SaltStack, and BASH scripts. Standardized Linux server build procedures and configurations, rebuilding and upgrading all Linux systems and applications to established standard.  • Wrote BASH shell scripts to automate the synchronization of internal YUM repositories with public mirrors, setup, configure MySQL replication between master and slave servers, perform MySQL database backups/restores to and from the AWS cloud, backup AWS Route53 zones to AWS S3, and perform routine administrative tasks.  • Performed troubleshooting of poor system and application performance and provided remediation of reported server and application issues. Tuned Linux kernel to support application requirements. Senior Systems Administrator / Information Technology Manager Informa Investment Solutions - Zephyr Cove, NV October 2007 to June 2013 • Implemented VMware ESX 3.5 and vCenter Server. Performed P2V conversions of all physical servers to virtual machines within VMware infrastructure. Performed upgrade of virtualization environment to VMware vSphere 5.0 and upgraded virtualization host server hardware as part of lifecycle refresh.  • Modernized corporate LAN and WAN networks from the ground up including replacement of structured cabling, VLAN segmentation, IP re-addressing/routing, firewall security, and VPN access (site-to-site and client-based; IPsec and SSL) upgrades, removing bottlenecks and improving network performance. Planned and coordinated several internet circuit upgrades to support growing bandwidth needs.  • Acted as project manager and lead engineer on on several key projects including New York branch office buildout, Tahoe facilities renovation, and multi-site ShoreTel VoIP telephone system.  • Responsible for corporate offices, remote data center, and AWS systems and networks. Administered internal and client facing web based applications, services, and corporate website ensuring SLA’s were met. Performed regular analysis of system availability, performance, log files, events, backups verification, and capacity planning. Automated routine daily tasks using scripts and scheduling tools.  • Provided leadership in the development, implementation, and support of IT solutions. Provided direction for and oversaw IT operations and projects in accordance with business objectives. Related business objectives to technical solutions by identifying and evaluating new technologies to be used to solve business problems. Unix System Administrator NIF - Livermore, CA June 2005 to October 2007 • Managed NIF IT systems and network management servers consisting of HP Openview Network Node Manager, Zenoss, Nagios, and Cacti. Ensured availability of collected performance metrics and sanity  of fault management applications. Installed, configured, and maintained systems performance and fault management agents on NIF IT systems and network devices.  • Defined NIF IT Systems and Network Performance and Fault Management platform requirements based on business needs and SLA requirements. Researched vendor products, performed evaluations, provided recommendations and implemented new system and network management applications for ongoing systems and network performance/fault management project.  • Developed protocols for performance and fault management including identifying key system resource performance indicators, defining resource thresholds and responses when system faults occur. Implemented application to automate daily backup of network component configurations with version control and secure web based access. NMS Administrator SBC Datacom - Dublin, CA July 2004 to June 2005 • Managed the daily configuration of SBC Data Services servers running HP Openview on Sun Solaris. Provided technical material needed for documentation of customer devices and SBC server configurations.  • Coordinated customer additions and changes with project management groups. Independently installed and configured customers Cisco routers and switching equipment for collection of performance metrics using SNMP.  • Supported the Technical Services department, through analysis and diagnostics of customer equipment utilizing information from collected performance metrics, and assisted in problem resolution. Network Engineer GMAC Commercial Mortgage - San Francisco, CA July 2002 to April 2004 • Re-designed west coast branch offices LAN’s from flat to hierarchical networks, implementing VLAN’s for server, video and voice infrastructure. Migrated US regional offices from frame-relay to MPLS WAN network to support the implementation of video conferencing and VoIP.  • Planned, scheduled, and implemented new branch installations, hardware and software upgrades of network equipment, and replacement of failed components.  • Managed global network via Concord eHealth, responding to alarm conditions and generating reports on network status. Used NMS for trend analysis and proactive resolution of possible problem areas. Support Engineer / Manager of Network Operations Blue-Silicon / United Connections - San Jose, CA June 2000 to January 2002 • Effectively designed, planned, and migrated network from single site to multiple site campus LAN/WAN with connectivity to remote sites including redundancy and fault-tolerant components. Implemented new services such as Cisco VPN, PIX firewall, VLAN’s, DHCP, DNS and WINS. Coordinated new installs, adds, and changes with Installation and Provisioning group.  • Administered HP Openview ITO/NNM applications including product installation, configuration of SNMP traps, network maps, threshold monitoring, automated operator actions, and event notification. Customized HP Openview for ease of use and building of monitoring applications to manage application, system, and network status.  • Responsible for creation and implementation of NOC standard operating procedures, ensuring proper training, documentation and customer care were carried out effectively. 81mm Mortarman United States Marine Corps - K?ne‘ohe Bay, HI April 1987 to May 1991 Skills Puppet, Linux, Solaris, Python, Ruby, Scripting, Bash Additional Information SUMMARY OF QUALIFICATIONS  1996 - 2019  Strong knowledge of systems and network management, planning, design, installation, configuration, tuning, maintenance, and troubleshooting of software and hardware components with good deductive reasoning and attention to detail. A natural ability to understand complex business systems, relating organizational objectives and goals into technical requirements and initiatives.    • Systems Management: Puppet Open Source/Enterprise, Puppet Bolt, Ansible Tower/ AWX, SaltStack, Cloudbolt, Kickstart, Red Hat Satellite, Foreman/Katello, Zenoss, Nagios, Cacti, ELK (ElasticSearch/LogStash/Kibana), Splunk, HP Openview, RRDTool  • Applications and Services: GitHub/git, Jenkins CI/CD, Apache, Nginx, HAProxy, Squid, Stunnel, Postfix, Sendmail, PostgreSQL, MySQL; BIND, Unbound, IPTables/ Firewalld, Syslog, SELinux; SSL, HTTP, FTP, SMTP, NFS, CIFS/SMB, DNS, SNMP  • Cloud and Virtualization: Amazon AWS EC2, EBS, S3, VPC, IAM, Route53; VMware ESX/ESXi/vSphere (3.5, 5.0, 5.5), vCenter; KVM, Docker, Kubernetes  • Operating Systems: Linux - RHEL/CentOS v5/6/7/8; Mac OSX; Solaris, SunOS 5.8, 5.9; Windows Server 2008, 2003, 2000; Windows Workstation Win7, Vista, XP, 2000  • Programming and Scripting: Python, Ruby, BASH shell, Puppet DSL    PROFESSIONAL CREDENTIALS  • Red Hat Certified System Administrator RHEL6, RHEL7 (RHCSA - current)  • Puppet Certified Professional (PCP - 2017)