Professional Services Consultant Professional Services Consultant Professional Services Consultant - McAfee Aldie, VA Work Experience Professional Services Consultant McAfee - Reston, VA June 2018 to Present Team Lead for a team of HBSS SME's at the Army Cyber Operations & Integration Center.  • Providing HBSS subject matter expertise and consulting services to U.S. Army Cyber Command  • Functioning as an Endpoint Security Engineer leveraging McAfee Endpoint Security (ENS), Enterprise Security Manager (ESM), Threat Intelligence Exchange (TIE), Data Exchange Layer (DXL), and Advanced Threat Defense (ATD) to detect and report on potential malicious activity on U.S. Army networks.  • Enforcing compliance and providing oversight for all HBSS modules, policies, and configurations for all Army ePO servers. HBSS Administrator McAfee - Herndon, VA April 2015 to June 2018 Provided Tier 3 O&M support for the Host Based Security System across multiple enclaves.  • Implemented & tuned HIPS signatures, policies, and exceptions as needed.  • Created & customized VirusScan policies and exclusions based on the environment.  • Created & modified device definitions and device control rules in DLP.  • Created custom queries and dashboards to manage and monitor the environment.  • Coordinated with & assisted the Cyber Ops Center in potential malware investigations.  • Monitored multiple networks for rogue system detection and remediating rogue systems.  • Created SQL maintenance plans to ensure optimum database efficiency and database backups were routinely completed.  • Successfully completed Enterprise Policy Orchestrator (ePO) server, Agent Handler, and SQL server upgrades and migrated thousands of endpoints to the new architecture.  • Successfully upgraded several endpoint products via tag-based deployments including patches and hotfixes for VirusScan, HIPS, DLP, RSD, ACCM, and Policy Auditor. Senior Systems & Security Administrator Fulcrum IT - Centreville, VA September 2014 to April 2015 Responsible for monitoring and maintaining information security & auditing solutions including Quest InTrust, Symantec Endpoint Protection, and Lumension Endpoint Protection.  • Led small team responsible for the operations and maintenance of a network consisting of Windows Server 2008R2, Windows 7 & other non-Windows systems.  • Administered and maintained a virtual environment using VMware vSphere running on VMware ESXi 5.5. Senior Systems Administrator Lockheed Martin - Herndon, VA January 2009 to September 2014 Designed and built a closed network to run operational missions for Satellite Engineers.  * Responsible for building, hardening, and maintaining Windows Server 2008 R2 servers.  * Maintaining multiple Windows domains running in a Windows Server 2003 or 2008 R2 Active Directory environment with MS Exchange 2003.  * Configuring and hardening Windows servers and workstations using the DISA Gold Disk, Retina Network Security Scanner, and WASSP.  * Patching servers and workstations to comply with the US CYBERCOM Information Assurance Vulnerability Management (IAVM) Program. Senior Systems Administrator Lockheed Martin, 6607 Army Pentagon - Arlington, VA April 2008 to January 2009 Responsible for building and maintaining a Windows Server 2003 Active Directory environment on multiple classifications for the U.S. Army Information Technology Agency at the Pentagon.  * Installed, configured, and hardened Windows Servers and IIS using the DISA Gold Disk, STIG, and Retina scan reports. Data Warehouse Analyst Sr Lockheed Martin, 6607 Army Pentagon - Arlington, VA May 2006 to April 2008 Managed, maintained, and supported an enterprise reporting system, Business Objects Enterprise XI, for the U.S. Army Information Technology Agency at the Pentagon.  * Created and maintained accurate reports via Crystal Reports XI for government customers, onsite Lockheed management, and the Pentagon Network Operations Center.  * Configured server and the application to function as part of a Single Sign-On (SSO) web portal.  * Implemented a SMTP solution on the Business Objects servers to provide automatic emailing of critical reports to customers. Systems Administrator L-3 \ Titan Group, 6607 Army Pentagon - Arlington, VA September 2003 to May 2006 Maintained an enterprise-level tape backup system that included multiple tape libraries for the U.S. Army Information Technology Agency, Information Management Center at the Pentagon.  * Scheduled regular automatic backups of mission critical servers and restored data from those backups in a timely manner.  * Installed, configured, and upgraded desktop, laptop, and tablet PC's on the unclassified and classified networks.  * Installed, configured, and upgraded software applications including some proprietary government applications.  * Troubleshot all issues involving user's workstations, local and network printers/scanners, hubs/switches, Blackberry devices, smart card readers, and software applications.  * Ensured that user's workstations have the necessary IAVA patches and do not have unauthorized software installed. Help Desk Support Analyst Booz - Arlington, VA January 2003 to September 2003 Provided Tier II systems automation support and network administration for the U.S. Army's Manpower & Reserve Affairs/G-1 personnel as well as provide day-to-day support for all of the U.S. Army's agencies at the Pentagon.  * Installed and upgraded hardware equipment & software applications, and configured computers for the local area network.  * Troubleshot workstation issues, network and local printers, handheld devices, PKI smart card readers and associated software applications. Assisted the Project Team Leader and the G-1 Information Management Officer on tasks and projects. Field Technician APEX Systems Inc - Richmond, VA February 2002 to January 2003 Installed, configured, and upgraded workstations, network printers, print servers and other peripheral devices.  * Traveled to various client sites and provided day-to-day IT support. Education Bachelors in Information Systems Radford University - Radford, VA December 2001