Internship Internship Internship Fresh Meadows, NY Highly motivated systems and network administrator offering hands-on-experience in configuring, upgrading and maintaining  long-term server infrastructures. Strong analytical skills. Able to work with technicians from various engineering disciplines  and environments to troubleshoot complex system-level issues. Work Experience Internship EGT Network Inc - New York, NY June 2018 to September 2018 Installation and configuration of new hardware (computers, monitors, printers, projectors etc.)  ? Manage computers and servers by monitoring performance, configuration, maintenance and repair  ? Assisted with the installation of network in new locations  ? Supported Android and Apple Mobil devices  ? Maintain/Monitor/Improve/Repair WAN and LAN, VLAN connectivity, routing, firewalls, protocol issues, load balancers, and other network security devices  ? Read technical manuals, confer with users, and conduct computer diagnostics to investigate and resolve problems, and to provide technical assistance and support by remote or in person  ? CCTV projects & data entry Systems Administrator New Horizon Institute - Karachi, PK July 2010 to December 2014 Provided systems administration support for Unix systems including servers and workstation upgrades  ? Backup and disaster recovery monitoring  ? User account setup and troubleshoot issues  ? Performed regular backups and recovery procedures  ? Security administration and Followed SOPs to ensure system security  ? Cable lining Salesman and Manager Quick Ways Cargo Services - Karachi, PK August 2002 to May 2010 Responsible for all cargos in/outs; Purchased computers & software for the company: Setup the entire operation of the company online; Maintained computer networking; Communicated with other companies for sales; and Resolved customer  issues and complaints. Education Associate of Occupational Studies in Network Administration and Security ASA College - New York, NY June 2015 to September 2018 Bachelor of Arts in Political Science and Economics University of Sindh May 2008 to May 2011 Skills Network security, Networking, Ios, Security, Database, Oracle, Sql, Ms office, C#, Printers, Excel, Powerpoint, Word Additional Information SKILLS:    ? Good analysis of problems in computers and ? Word, Excel, PowerPoint (MS Office)  quick-solve ? Certified Microsoft IT Professional (M.C.I.T.P)  ? Assemble and disassemble the computer and ? Certified Computer Hardware (A+ Hardware)  printers ? Certified Computer Graphic Designing (Adobe)  ? SQL, Oracle database ? Microsoft Operating System and IOS  ? Implementing Network Security ? Cloud Computing (Auzor, AWS)  ? Networking Administrator  ? Web developer  ? C# Sharp programmer