Information Systems Specialist Information <span class="hl">Systems</span> Specialist Information Systems Specialist North Augusta, SC IT Professional with12 years experience and a diverse set of technical skills and experience is seeking a professional opportunity where I may continue to grow professionally while offering all my skills to further the needs of my company. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Systems Specialist Augusta University and Hospital by Cerner - Augusta, GA October 2015 to June 2017 • In a team of two, responsible for the administration, security monitoring, patch monitoring and installation, operating system configuration, software deployment, and operating system deployment on 13,000 University and Hospital computers using Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager and custom Powershell scripts.  • Administration, configuration and deployment of 300 mobile Windows and iOS devices using Citrix AirWatch.  • Solely responsible for administration of Landesk software on all Hospital and university computers. Then the removal of Landesk software, server and preparation of SCCM installation.  • Setup of Miicrosoft SCCM server and new installation of agents on 13,000 computers.  • Created custom PowerShell scripts for remote software installation on Windows 7, 8.1, and 10 Professional and Enterprise computers.  • Created custom PowerShell scripts to gather information from remote computers for security, inventory, compatibility and diagnostic purposes.  • Migration of the patch management server from WSUS to SCCM SUP  • Implementation of Bitlocker encryption  • Provide final/top tier support for technical Windows OS questions.  • Investigation of new technology and set up proof of concept labs.  • Worked with Microsoft Volume license  • Made presentations on changes to the Change Review Comittiee  • Set up and maintained complex isolated test labs Information Systems Specialist Augusta University and Hospital - Augusta, GA September 2007 to September 2015 • As part of a lean team, Ability to prioritize tasks, manage time and multi-task in a high paced 24/7/365 critical health care environment.  • Responsible for installation and maintenance of desktop and laptop systems, including operating systems, application installations, upgrades and repairs.  • Experience with Windows operating systems, Microsoft Office applications, and hardware troubleshooting in a corporate, university and hospital environment.  • On call duties to ensure essential hospital computers are operational.  • Performed malware remediation when reported by enterprise discovery. Performed any additional discovery.  • Service Now ticketing software for creating and completing work orders. Completed all assigned projects on time, efficiently and effectively, with proper documentation.  • Accurate documentation of Inventory, Add/Move and Change processes within enterprise.  • Configure, deploy, repair and troubleshoot mobile devices, mostly Apple iOS iPhone, IPads and Windows laptops  • Efficient in diagnosing Cisco network issues and escalating to appropriate resource.  • Excellent customer service orientation to ensure overall satisfaction. Applications Systems Developer and Systems Administrator Department of Health and Environmental Control - Columbia, SC November 2005 to September 2007 Region 3, State of South Carolina, Columbia, SC, November 2005 - September 2007  • Developed an intranet site for the region using ASP.NET 2.0, C#, MS SQL Express, IBM DB2 Express-C, Visual Studio 2005.  • Develop and implement multimedia training videos using Adobe Premiere, Techsmith Camtasia and Macromedia Flash  • Administrator for Adobe Breeze, a software package for web conferencing.  • General IT support to include software installation, Windows support and customization, Microsoft Office support and ad-hoc individual training, and end user problem resolution.  • Communications chief for the region's Emergency Operations Center with emergency on-call duties. Would stand up remote web conferencing software and assist users in during Hurricanes or other state or national declared emergency.  • Create detailed maps using ESRI ArcGis Software for state Epidemilogy use for predicting and warning of disease outbreaks and pandemics. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Troy University May 2009 Bachelor of Science in Business Administration University of South Carolina in Aiken - Aiken, SC May 2004 Skills INVENTORY (9 years), DEPLOYMENT (1 year), SECURITY (1 year), WINDOWS 7 (1 year) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Proficiency:  • Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager  ? Script deployment  ? Remote software installation  ? Inventory  ? Security  • Microsoft Server 2012R2 and Server 2016  • PowerShell - automation, modules, package management, remoting  • Test Lab creation and management  • Administration, configuration and deployment of Windows 7, 8.1 and 10  ? Enterprise, Professional and Education, versions from 1507 to the upcoming 1709.  ? involved in Insider builds  ? Windows 10 update branches, CB, CBB, LTSB