Unix Administrator Unix <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Unix Systems Administrator King of Prussia, PA I have years of US Information Technology experience in the Pharmaceutical, Financial  services and e-Commerce industry. Skilled in Unix/Linux Systems Administration with a  demonstrated history in implementing, troubleshooting, and supporting Infrastructure  environments. Motivated by technical challenges, diligent and enjoys contributing in a  team environment. Work Experience Unix Administrator Barclays - Wilmington, DE December 2014 to October 2018 • Member of the Barclays Global Technology Infrastructure and Services team.  • Responsible for the administration of 1200+ servers in a mix of physical and virtual machines.  • Analyzes and plans complex upgrades, tech refreshes, migrations, and/or consolidations across the environment.  • Partners with fellow engineers in managing incidents in Unix environment for timely services recovery or outage prevention by use of general Unix knowledge.  • Drive Unix project work to achieve key strategic deliverables.  • Team SME on Linux, monitoring and storage.  • Performs root cause analysis of production issues, investigation and implementation of security initiatives.  • Provides general support to other Run the Bank teams and consultancy about Unix  products.  • Work off-hours through an on-call rotation to support Sev1 tickets, Production  incidents and project deliverables.  • Technical environment: Red Hat Enterprise Linux; AIX; HPE ProLiant Servers; IBM  pSeries Servers; VMware; IBM XIV; EMC VMAX; Dell EMC AFA; Oracle RAC;  Nagios; Satellite; Cobbler; Kickstart; Confluence; ServiceNow; ServiceFirst Lead Command Center Administrator eBay Enterprise - King of Prussia, PA February 2013 to November 2014 • Member of the eBay Enterprise Systems Operations team, this role is responsible  for managing production systems.  • Responsible for all systems and applications monitoring, troubleshooting, deployment and maintenance activities required to support large scale, high  availability, 24x7 production environment.  • Role involves working throughout all levels of the organization, and working closely  with Engineering, Operations, Release Management, and Production Support  teams.  • Monitor, and respond to issues, for eBay Enterprise systems and applications in a  24x7 Command Center environment.  • Works closely with application developers to devise robust deployment, operations, monitoring, and reporting.  • Tune application configurations to support optimized performance per developer  and engineering recommendations.  • Proactively finds potential site issues and take initiative to address them in a timely fashion in a 24x7 Command Center environment.  • Partners with supervisor on solving problems and leading them to resolution.  • Partner on automation opportunities for repeatable tasks and recommend/implement the solutions in collaboration with the appropriate teams.  • Performs second level troubleshooting of applications to diagnose problems.  • Coordinates with operations teams to create strategies and detailed plans for deployment sequencing and timing.  • Technical environment: Red Hat Enterprise Linux; WebLogic; Apache; Tomcat;  Nagios; Confluence; Citrix XenCenter Unix Administrator KC Data Services - Newtown Square, PA August 2010 to August 2011 Consulting Firm:  Distributed Systems Services, Inc. (West Chester, PA) August 2010 – August 2011    • Administration of IBM pSeries systems running AIX and Intel-based systems  running SuSE Linux Enterprise Server.  • Plan and execute new system deployments. Operating system upgrades, technology level and patch installations across the environment.  • Performance monitoring, analysis and tuning of systems.  • Troubleshoot and resolve incident support cases.  • Perform day to day functions including scheduling and monitoring of OS and database backups.  • Works with SAP/DB2 administrators to troubleshoot issues.  • Works with applications support group to troubleshoot IBM WebSphere (WAS) and HTTP Server (IHS) issues.  • Responsible for providing technical support to application developers and end- users.  • Research new technology and recommend implementations as dictated by business needs.  • Participate in a 24x7 on-call duty rotation. Performs off-hour change controls.  • Technical environment: AIX 5.3, 6.1; SuSE Linux Enterprise 10; IBM Tivoli Storage  Manager - server and client; IBM pSeries Servers - Power 770, 570; HMC; IBM  BladeCenter H with JS23 Type 7778 POWER6 blade servers; Data Domain Storage  DD660, DD690 - for Backup; VMWare guest systems; DokuWiki Unix Systems Engineer GlaxoSmithKline plc. - King of Prussia, PA July 2004 to December 2009 Consulting Firm:  Alphanumeric Systems, Inc. (Raleigh, NC) July 2005 - December 2009  Analysts International (Raleigh, NC) July 2004 - June 2005    • Unix hardware and software support for GSK R&D IT Systems Support group Upper Merion/Upper Providence.  • Provides application support for various scientific software packages running on Unix systems. Install, compile, configure, patch, troubleshoot, and manage licenses of Unix software, including commercial, academic, and in-house applications.  • Participates as a Unix resource on projects that belong to other R&D IT groups.  • Implement Unix based solutions to support various research groups.  • Install and configure Unix systems following GSK established standards.  • Troubleshoot and repair Unix systems. Obtain parts via established GSK channels.  • Works with SCS Unix Services to maintain a consistent operating system level across the R&D organization.  • Interfaces with SCS in order to ensure that issues are resolved and requests are completed according to defined service level agreements.  • Communicate proactively with scientists highlighting issues and proposing solutions.  • Use of change management and problem management tools such as Chameleon and Remedy. Handles Remedy Unix tickets coming from other R&D groups. This may involve coordinating with other IT groups to achieve resolution.  • Ensure that Unix computing purchases are fit for purpose, follow GSK established standards and are obtained in a timely manner.  • Interfaces with IT vendors to evaluate system solutions and options.  • Technical environment: Red Hat Enterprise Linux 4, 5; CentOS; SGI IRIX; HP ProLiant Servers; HPC Workstations – HP XW series; SGI Workstations; NIS; automount/autofs; Samba; Apache + third-party modules Unix Systems Administrator AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals - Wilmington, DE March 1999 to September 2003 Consulting Firm:  Adagio Consulting Group, Inc. (West Chester, PA) July 2002 - June 2004  Vector ESP (Wayne, PA) August 2001 - June 2002  Broadreach Consulting (Wayne, PA) January 1999 - July 2001    • Participated as a Unix resource to various Discovery IS projects.  • Install and maintain life sciences software applications.  • Implemented monitoring techniques to identify problems with computing services.  • Supported application development teams in making sure that their computing resource requirements are met.  • Coordinate the installation and maintenance of operating systems and hardware with the Unix team.  • Oversee server backups.  • Install and update Oracle flat file databases and coordinate administration with the DBA team.  • Coordinate services with other global sites.  • Manage web and application servers.  • Perform day-to-day system administration tasks.  • Handle 2nd line support to IS helpdesk for Unix issues.  • Technical environment: Sun Solaris 7, 8; SGI IRIX; Sun Enterprise Mid-range Servers; Sun Workstations; Sun Mid-range Storage; SGI Servers and Workstations; Apache; iPlanet Web Server; BEA WebLogic Server Systems/Network Administrator EPiCnet - Manila October 1995 to September 1998 Technical Support Engineer Sanwa Koki Co., Ltd - Tokyo, Japan May 1995 to August 1995 Science Research Specialist Department of Science and Technology - Manila March 1992 to March 1995 Education Bachelor's in Computer Science AMA Computer College - Manila Skills System Administrator, Linux, Redhat Additional Information • Red Hat High Availability Clustering RH436 - Red Hat Global Learning Services - October 2015  • SUN Certified Network Administrator Solaris 8 – February 2004  • SUN Certified System Administrator Solaris 8 – December 2003