x86 Systems Administrator x86 <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> x86 Systems Administrator - Optimas OE Solutions, LLC Des Plaines, IL An experienced technical leader, with a strong background within multiple IT disciplines. - Skill set includes, but is not limited to the following: virtualization, process management, peer mentoring/training, customer service, server engineering/administration and project management.    Current career goals include moving into a senior technical position with leadership responsibilities that has long-term growth potential (either within technical management or director of an organizational unit). Work Experience x86 Systems Administrator Optimas OE Solutions, LLC - Glenview, IL October 2018 to Present Primary administrator for the x86 server environment, which included:  • Responsibility for both physical and virtualized servers/appliances.  • Ownership of the VMware environment, including ESXi Hypervisors, vCenter/vSphere, PSC's (Platform Services Controller), and the commissioning/decommissioning of Virtual Machines (VM’s).  • Engineering functions, including configuration planning (HW/SW), determining connectivity requirements, and providing scaling recommendations for resource allocations (CPU, RAM, etc).  • Ownership of the Quest KACE (K1000) virtual server appliance, which included the development of shell scripts and software deployment packages.  • Development and architecture within the Windows Active Directory environment, which included: Group Policies (GPO), Security Groups, Organizational Unit (OU) structure, and provisioning/delegation.  • Driving environmental changes in alignment with modern/standard practices.    Other duties included:  • Principal development of client images and associated processes.  • Participating in infrastructure planning activities and purchase decisions.  • Backup responsibility of network/security functions, including: Cisco Meraki, F5 Networks load-balancers, and any functions hosted within AD (DHCP & DNS).  • Providing priority support for IT projects & POC's including company-wide transitions from “G Suite” to O365 (on-going project), SEP to Cylance, SEE to BitLocker, WUG to SolarWinds Orion.  • Sharing mentoring/leadership of the T1 & T2 ServiceDesk staff, and providing T3 escalated support on deskside issues.  • Partnering directly with the Security Team on planning and implementation of policies & products (i.e.: Endpoint Protection, 2FA/MFA, Identity Mgmt, etc).  • Working on a daily-basis with global IT leadership (senior, executive, c-level) on various topics and projects. Systems Engineer - Tier II NICE Systems Ltd - Schaumburg, IL February 2013 to October 2018 • Built upon prior successes, additional team-orientated responsibilities were awarded. – This included, but was not limited to the following: Subject Matter Expert (SME), Peer Mentoring / Leadership, and Training of New Hires.  • Successfully operated at a “Tier 3” level (L3), which aided in the reduction of required case escalations for several team members.  • Took initiative and assumed a role within the Knowledge Base (KB) management process, championed clean-up efforts, and developed a curated list for use within the Public Safety support team.   • Cultivated strong relationships with key customer leaders, which resulted in being nominated as a Technical Account Manager (TAM).  • Excelled in Technical Writing, and was often invited to aid in the development of: Project Plans, ITIL Change Management Process (CMP) documents, and “Level of Effort” (LoE) statements for complex system installs & upgrades.  • Provided expertise on advanced server topics and implementation of front-end virtualization components (Hyper-V and VMware). Desktop Administrator (Site Support Services) Easton-Bell Sports - Rosemont, IL September 2009 to January 2013 • Built upon prior successes, additional team-orientated responsibilities were awarded. – This included, but was not limited to the following: Subject Matter Expert (SME), Peer Mentoring / Leadership, and Training of New Hires.  • Successfully operated at a “Tier 3” level (L3), which aided in the reduction of required case escalations for several team members.  • Took initiative and assumed a role within the Knowledge Base (KB) management process, championed clean-up efforts, and developed a curated list for use within the Public Safety support team.   • Cultivated strong relationships with key customer leaders, which resulted in being nominated as a Technical Account Manager (TAM).  • Excelled in Technical Writing, and was often invited to aid in the development of: Project Plans, ITIL Change Management Process (CMP) documents, and “Level of Effort” (LoE) statements for complex system installs & upgrades.  • Provided expertise on advanced server topics and implementation of front-end virtualization components (Hyper-V and VMware). Desktop Administrator Alcoa Inc - Rosemont, IL March 2008 to September 2009 • Served as an Subject Matter Expert (SME) on several topics, including Operating Systems (OS) and Deployment Activities.  • Spearheaded an organization-wide (Riddell) “Windows 7” migration effort by personally developing and testing system images (Norton Ghost) for use within the support team.  • Contributions were recognized by IT management, and expanded role responsibilities were granted, which included the following:  • Inventory management and purchasing ability for workstations, hardware, software, accessories, and supplies.  • Elevated administration rights within Database (DB) and Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) environments, such as: SAP, Hyperion Essbase, and Lotus Notes. Senior / Lead Repair Technician (Geek Squad) Best Buy - Deerfield, IL October 2006 to March 2008 • Excelled within the store environment, and was promoted to this position within 5 months of being hired.  • Considered part of the store leadership team, and was granted additional responsibilities, including: Department assistant supervisor, primary escalation point for service-related issues, interviewing potential candidates, providing coaching/mentoring to other departments (including sales & customer service), and sharing responsibility of service budgets (which included delegation of daily revenue goals for team members). Education Bachelor's in Technical Management w/ Concentration in CIS DeVry University - Addison, IL 2008 Skills Active Directory (AD), Windows DHCP Server, Systems Administraton, VMware, Windows DNS Server, VIRTUALIZATION, HYPER-V, SCRIPTING, LINUX, SHELL SCRIPTING, DATABASE ADMINISTRATION (DBA), Database Scripting, COMMAND LINE INTERFACE (CLI), TECHNICAL SUPPORT, SUBJECT MATTER EXPERT (SME), MENTORING, TRAINING, SERVER ENGINEERING, System Administrator, System Admin, Linux Administrator, SCCM, Office 365 (O365), Windows Server OS, Technical Writing, Group Policy (GPO), Database (DB) Management, Leadership, Dell & HP Server Hardware, Break/Fix, Asset Management, SSH, Quest KACE, Google "G Suite", Ubuntu Server, Red Hat, Redhat Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ (CE) – 2009 Objectives 2013 to 2016 ID: COMP001020523193 Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) 2012 to Present License: E078-7934 Microsoft Technology Associate (MTA) 2012 to Present • Windows Operating System Fundamentals (License #: D776-6126)  • Network Fundamentals (License #: D776-6125) CompTIA A+ – 2001 Objectives Present ID: COMP001020523193 Assessments Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/j1vldnd7-hzt5jsz Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/t6uehgseqi8zdqrn Problem Solving — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ztiglkux-68i7k8r Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.