Systems Analyst <span class="hl">Systems</span> Analyst Systems Analyst Rockville, MD Experienced Systems Analyst Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Analyst General Dynamics Information Technology - Washington, DC August 2018 to Present • Supports and configures cloud based ticketing system Ivanti Service Manager.    • Provides application support and enhancements to existing applications by building workflows,   creating layouts, forms, business rules and interface design for service management ticketing   system.    • Develops reports by developing queries in Crystal Reports and SQL Server Reporting Service.    • Develops dashboards within the Ivanti Service Management system with extensive graphical   displays of data.    • Coordinates upgrades to vendor systems. Involved in the planning, configuration and   deployment of Service Management System. Responsible for meeting software compliance   standards.    • Responsible for developing user documentation and departmental policies and procedures that   impact the use of application systems. Systems Application Analyst General Dynamics Information Technology September 2016 to August 2018 • Support Windows 7, Mac OS X, Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI), Active Directory, RSA   Console, McAfee Endpoint Encryption Manager, McAfee Endpoint Protection, Symantec   Endpoint Protection.    • Provides Tier II support for SAS 9.4, R Studio and other data analytic software.    • Planned, assisted and implemented RSA Token Replacement for expiring tokens.    • Configured and deployed computer images from Windows XP to 7. Created a schedule to   accommodate users so that there was not a disruption in work.    • Support for hardware such as printers, desktops, laptops, video equipment, cameras, and   scanners. Help Desk Technician/ Systems Administrator AECOM June 2015 to September 2016 • Supported Windows 7/8/10, Mac OS X, Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI), Active Directory,   Hyena, Microsoft Exchange, McAfee Endpoint Encryption, McAfee ePO, Symantec Endpoint  Protection.    • Provided Tier II first-contact resolution for incidents and requests reported to the service desk   by reviewing all tickets and determining best solution including tier III escalations.    • Supported computer security services such as account and password support, encryption,   firewalls, rights and privileges, and security and technology policies.    • Supported software with such functions as operating systems, e-mail/messaging, office   productivity, drivers, applications, web applications, remote connectivity, and automation.   Support for hardware such as printers, desktops, laptops, servers, video equipment, cameras,   and scanners. Compliance Analyst Citi November 2008 to May 2015 • Performed internal Quality Checks/Quality Audits (QA/QC) analyzing data to ensure it’s   accuracy by checking to ensure that all files, processes, procedures and protocols are in   compliance with investor, insurer, company, & government regulatory business requirements,   policies, and standards.    • Maintained 100% quality assurance rating on all weekly audit operations conducted.    • Provided incident reports on all audit findings in weekly meetings and facilitated training for  employees on topics involving regulations and compliance    • Worked in fast-paced environment, halted several foreclosures within hours of auction   deadlines, coordinating actions directly with attorneys. Determined preferred solutions to   resolve customer’s defaulted mortgage loans. Education Certificate in Cyber Security - Cyber Advantage Program Montgomery College - Germantown, MD 2017 to 2017 Master's in Informatics University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD 2011 to 2014 Bachelor's in Fine Arts Washburn University - Topeka, KS 2002 to 2007 Skills Crystal Reports, Systems Analysis, Data Analysis, Microsoft Report Writer, SQL, SQL Reporting, Crystal Reports, Cyber Security, Ivanti Links http://linkedin.com/in/caronhandcock Certifications/Licenses Network +