Linux Systems Administrator Linux <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Linux Systems Administrator - SNS One Landover, MD Top Secret cleared technical professional with strong focus on client service and teamwork. Accomplished and productive leader with proven ability to manage multiple projects using effective communication skills. Key strengths include excellent organizational skills, efficient time management and the ability to exercise good judgment. Adaptable, reliable and results-oriented individual that continuously seeks to enhance technical knowledge and work proficiencies. Able to work in a fast- paced and highly customer focused environment. Demonstrates ability to quickly analyze and troubleshoot issues and provide innovative solutions. Work Experience Linux Systems Administrator SNS One - Annapolis Junction, MD April 2019 to Present TS/SCI)  Responsibilities and Accomplishments:  Currently supports the United States Navy at the National Security Administration in effort to deploy IAAS containers to their Windows, Linux, and mobile devops task force. Linux Systems Engineer ICF International - Adelphi, MD July 2017 to April 2019 TS/SCI)  Responsibilities and Accomplishments:  Currently supports the Army Research Laboratory (ARL) in the deployment and sustainment of their network intrusion detection sensors throughout the Department of Defense classified production level operation environments running on Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7. This includes the maintenance and sustainment of the sensor operating system and application package running the ACAS system. Along with the biweekly update of plugins to ensure safe security posture, new systems were also configured to utilize proper access control to effectively be available within the management network and fed span traffic from ingress signals on the SIPR network as well. Daily work included the generation and utilization of bash scripts to facilitate the day to day tasks of tracking logistics and proper function of deployed entities. Technical Consultant LOCALTECHSPERTS, LLC - Landover, MD December 2001 to April 2019 Responsibilities and Accomplishments:  Works in partnership with clients, advising them how to use information technology in order to meet their business or personal objectives and to dedicate a resource to globally increase the overall security posture of the firm. The underlying premise of the position is that increased security will significantly reduce risk and add substantial value to our business. Consulted and assisted in the setup/configuration of firewalls, proxies, IDS, Remote Access and Site-to-Site VPNs, Two-Factor Authentication, Wireless Networking, Vulnerability Management, and Troubleshooting issues down to the packet decode level using network mappers, port scanners, or system logs. Unix System Administrator DIRECTVIZ SOLUTIONS - Fort Meade, MD March 2015 to July 2017 TS/SCI SBBI)  Responsibilities and Accomplishments:  Currently supports the Defense Intelligence Systems Agency (DISA) in the deployment and sustainment of their network infrastructure running CentOS and Solaris 9 in both laboratory/testing and critical production level operation environments. This includes the maintenance and sustainment of servers and developing implementation guides for production administrators to follow. While assigned, this title demands a significant level of project management to d eploy or sustain network appliances on schedule and information assurance skills to ensure that equipment utilized in inventory complies with guidelines and standards enforced by DISA as well. Perform functions including the development and configuration of new virtual servers on the VMWare Vcenter/ESXi platform; migration of applications from development to production; troubleshooting and diagnostics of applications; system monitoring and tuning; applying STIG recommendations to comply with NIST configuration checklists; citing application vulnerabilities needed to be addressed by vendors; assuring compliance and assessment of network elements using ACAS; and performing sustainment functionality level software/hardware upgrades, installation, and maintenance. Systems/Security Engineer DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY - Arlington, VA January 2014 to March 2015 TS/SCI SBBI DHS Suitability)  Responsibilities and Accomplishments:  Supported the NSD/NPPD division of DHS by providing technical assessments and expertise to specific projects that meet NIST 800-53 and DHS compliance. Plan of Action and Milestone (PO&AM) tables are then generated and performs the validation and verification of remediation efforts to close PO&AMs. This would require being able to understand a complex system in a short amount of time, determine its security weaknesses at all layers to include hosts, databases, middleware, and applications and then generating clear, descriptive reports that include corrective actions to help guide the developer on how to mitigate the weaknesses. Also responsible for gathering information necessary to provide recommendations in order to maintain a system's security posture. As a security engineer (informally a penetration tester), day to day obligations included creating virtual machines hosted on KVM, ESXi, or OpenStack running Red Hat 6, installing production software to be tested, justifying security recommendations based on Security Center/Nessus assessments, industry leading tools such as Metasploit, Burp Suite, Kali Linux, Nessus, AppDetective, Web Inspect, Acunetix, Fortify, and vulnerabilities based on modified or written BASH scripts proving exploits on installed packages or active daemons. The team then creates and maintain the security documentation for certification and accreditation (C&A) and review system designs and proposed changes to identify potential security weaknesses. Firewall Administrator UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF STATE - Washington, DC May 2013 to December 2013 Interim Secret/Top Secret)  Responsibilities and Accomplishments:  Provides engineering, administration, and technical support for a global state of the art firewall/proxy/content filter environment supporting over 80,000 users in almost every country in the world. Is an integral member of the technical team supporting the definition, design and implementation of a global secure computing solution. Fully cognizant of state-of-the-art network, firewall, and other security technologies, products, and solutions as well as industry best practice with regard to the design, implementation and deployment of global security solutions. Daily obligations involved monitoring the health and performance of edge firewalls, implementing change requests to firewall rules to facilitate SLA level communication throughout the network, and monitoring of email transmission with explicit motives to catch spillage from classified to unclassified networks. Technologies employed include Remedy ITSM, Fortigate/Fortinet, Stonesoft/Stonegate, Bluecoat Filter, Sidewinder, Juniper (SSL VPN), NetIQ, and TCP/IP LAN/WAN technologies in a Cisco CLI environment. Hardware Support Technician UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE - Washington, DC September 2012 to January 2013 Public Trust)  Responsibilities and Accomplishments:  Verifies the backup for DOJ users' XP desktops and then document that the backup has been completed before replacing with a duplicated imaged version of Windows 7. All imaging is built with Norton Ghost, and returned to the user updated. This project supports 700-1000 users in the network. IRTA Scientific Fellow/Network Administration NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH - Bethesda, MD November 2007 to February 2010 Public Trust)  Responsibilities and Accomplishments:  Applied the methodology of electrophysiological recordings to record neural activity in rhesus macaques to examine the percept of complex objects, learning and memory, and the neural basis underlying these phenomena to better understand how information is processed in the visual system. Daily efforts included scripting in MatLab and training the non-human primates to use the programs in a Red Hat 5 environment. Subjects then scanned in a vertical MRi for later analysis in cortical regions of interest. Performed troubleshooting requests in laboratory through the Workflow Information Tracking System (WiTS). Education B.S. in Psychology BOWIE STATE UNIVERSITY - Bowie, MD May 2007 Skills Linux, Solaris, Unix, Active directory, Cisco, Cisco asa, Nessus, Netscout, Vmware, Optical Certifications/Licenses TS/SCI clearance Additional Information TECHNICAL COMPETENCIES  • Solaris OS  • ACAS  • Linux  • Ansible  • Nessus  • Openstack    • VMware Stack  • Active Directory  • UNIX  • Gigamon HC2  • CienaOne Control  • Cisco Prime Optical    • Kali  • CISCO ASA  • Netscout Infinistream  • Windows Server 2019