Senior Systems Administrator Migration Team - Production Support Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Migration Team - Production Support Senior Systems Administrator Migration Team - Production Support - Cool Soft, LLC Tulsa, OK Seasoned ITIL Certified Microsoft Certified Solutions Expert (MCSE), Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate (MCSA), Microsoft Certified  Professional (MCP), and Windows Server Administration, VMware, Virtual System & Technical Support Professional with over 11 years of  experience in project management and planning, implementing, overseeing, and maintaining server and network infrastructures, in a variety  of industries. Extensive experience in all aspects of the deployment, installation, administration, maintenance, and troubleshooting of various  Microsoft Operating systems, applications, networks, and computers. Continually exceeds expectations by creating valuable partnerships and  works well with people at all levels of the organization, including stakeholders, customers, vendors, and team members. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator Migration Team - Production Support Cool Soft, LLC - Tulsa, OK February 2019 to Present Coordinating system planning, installation, monitoring, testing, and servicing, overseeing the network to ensure availability to all  systems, while providing an intuitive interface for requestors and for those fulfilling requests.  • Approving action requests and specifying purchase requirements, ensuring Windows servers comply with established policies, standards, licensing agreements, and configuration guidelines.  • Establishing and performing system backups and recovery procedures to ensure stable performance for the storage environment  through performance monitoring and tuning with relevant service-level agreements.  • Improving reporting for continuous improvement, and proposing then implementing system enhancements that improve performance  and reliability of the system, as well as upgrading systems with new releases and models.  • Remediating security vulnerabilities by applying patches or upgrading applications, as well as configuring and adjusting in Microsoft  Windows Active Directory, and providing Group Policy management and WSUS integration.  • Defining, designing, and implementing information systems and solutions, while also documenting design specifications, installation  instructions, and other system-related information.  • Designing, installing, configuring, administering, and fine-tuning Windows operating systems and Active Directory Infrastructure  across the organization in timely and efficient manner.  • Managing load configuration on system and making recommendations for purchase or upgrade of systems, as well as negotiating and placing orders with vendors.  • Supporting, troubleshooting, and resolving issues related to protocols and services including DHCP, DNS, FTP(S), HTTP(S), LDAP, SMTP, SNMP, SSH, TCP, and UDP. Systems Administrator Server Team - Production Support Cool Soft, LLC - Tallahassee, FL August 2018 to January 2019 Configured the infrastructure and install applications on Windows Internet Information Server platform, while reviewing installation  documentation, executing the installation, and automating the process, ensuring compliance with best practices.  • Worked with the Application team to examine deployment requirements of hardware and software, as well as developed and maintained technical specifications, standards, procedures, and systems documentation.  • Analyzed server performance to identify resource contention, recommending changes or upgrades to ensure optimization, while working with Data Center staff, OIT, and users to perform server installations, upgrades, and configuration changes.  • Inventoried, documented, and maintained applications on servers, aiding users with access, as well as analyzed, troubleshot, and resolved Windows Server issues, with minimal impact on users.  • Wrote PowerShell scripts to monitor Server properties and perform Active Directory and Exchange management activities;.  • Administered server security as needed for OIT staff and users, and recommended process improvements within the Department's  server and applications teams, while researching then recommending technical solutions to meet functional requirements.  • Created schedules for the development and implementation of specific software systems, as well as developed system test plans to ensure software meets design criteria.  • Perform additional System Administrator tasks as Imaging and OnBase Support required by the Department. Sr. Engineering System Administrator Cool Soft, LLC - Shrewsbury, MA October 2017 to July 2018 • Participated in the implementation and maintenance of major subsystems, including acknowledging and resolving user service requests, utilizing the service request management system.  • Architected, designed, engineered, implemented, administered, configured, supported, monitored, troubleshot, and maintained  enterprise applications within Office 365 and Azure.  • Supported the UMMS IT Hosted Services Department with the implementation of multiple Enterprise-level initiatives.  • Handled OS Installs, new builds, and OS Hardening along with Windows Server (2008 R2, 2012 R2, 2016), while creating Scripts using  Windows PowerShell cmdlets for automation of manual tasks.  • Maintained a good understanding of common protocols and services, including DHCP, DNS, FTP(S), HTTP(S), LDAP, SMTP, SNMP, SSH, TCP, UDP, and the ability to support, troubleshoot and resolve issues related to these protocols.  • Utilized Secure File Transfer Protocol and maintained a working knowledge of networks and a strong understanding of TCP/IP  VMWare vSphere & Vcenter 6.0 and 6.5. Lead Windows System Administrator Tata Consultancy Services - Cumberland, RI June 2015 to October 2017 Installed and managed ESX and ESXi servers on HP, Dell, or Cisco hardware, as well as installed vCenter Server along with vCenter  Components and upgraded VMware Tools.  • Migrated ESXi host and VMs across Data Centers, and upgraded from vSphere 4.1 to vSphere 5.0, while also updating Firmware and ProLiant Support Pack for Windows 2003/2008/2012 Servers.  • Created licenses and deployed vMA, configuring syslog server and dump collector, as well as created and managed resource pools and added the VMs into the pools.  • Utilized VMware Converter, PlateSpin PowerConvert, and FastSCP to work on ESXi Environment for P2V conversions, while also creating Snapshots according to user's requests and requirements.  • Handled Capacity Planning for new clusters, ESXi, and VM storage issues using the Capacity planner and VMware-guided  consolidation for gathering the physical machines CPU and Memory usage metrics.  • Maintained Web Servers by installing IIS 6, FTP Sites and creating Virtual Directories in IIS 6, while designing and implementing  backups and recoveries for SCCM 2012 along with SCOM 2012.  • Architected, designed, and implemented the System Center 2012: Configuration Manager, configuring HA, DRS clusters, and FT for critical VMs, while configuring, monitoring, and maintaining email applications.  • Performed data backups and disaster recovery operations, diagnosing, troubleshooting, and resolving hardware, software, or other  network and system problems, replacing defective components when necessary.  • Utilized expertise in remote control, patch management, software distribution, operating system deployment, network access protection, and hardware and software inventory, using System Center Configuration Manager. Lead Windows System Administrator - Production Support Moody's Corporation - New York, NY November 2014 to May 2015 Maintained and administered computer networks and related computing environments including computer hardware, systems  software, applications software, and all configurations.  • Oversaw the operations and maintenance for TCP/IP, handling routing via EIGRP, OSPF, and BGP along with network addressing, as well as performed troubleshooting of DNS, DHCP, IIS, and Active Directory.  • Configured SCOM clients and reporting for the SCCM environment, deploying new SCOM agents and troubleshooting failures, while maintaining overall clients/agents along with server health for the entire SCCM and SCOM infrastructure.  • Installed Windows 98, XP, NT, 2000, 2003, 2008, 2012, and 2016 operating systems, as well as installed, configured, and administered  Windows 2003 Enterprise Server.  • Managed Domain Controllers, 3 implemented Disaster Recovery in Windows 2003/2000 Domains by optimizing FSMO roles placement, as well as configured Domain Naming Server and Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol.  • Created User Accounts, configured User Profiles, created local and global Groups, and implemented Group Policies, implementing on servers' jobs using PowerShell scripting. Windows Systems Administrator - Production Support Tata Consultancy Services - Dallas, TX February 2010 to October 2014 Served on the Incident Management team, analyzing Wintel tickets, problem management ticket progress, and all CR, providing details  to clients at weekly infrastructure meeting, while ensuring follow-up of all Wintel Sev1 cases.  • Provided off-shore and on-site support for Wintel tower, while managing the VM infrastructure including VMotion, DRS, HA, Virtual  Center Server, and VM Converter.  • Administered Citrix XenApp Farms and published applications in Citrix server, providing access to user on application on Citrix  application when requested.  • Administered Windows Terminal Server, Group Policy management and Active Directory environments.  • Installed Active Directory Service and Exchange Server 2010, and deployed, configured, and managed Microsoft clients, while also configuring SMTP along with Routing Group Connectors.  • Implemented and administered Windows 2000/Windows 2003 and 2008 network services including DHCP, DNS, WINS, TS, and IIS 6.0, as well as installed Office 365 along with Lync, providing access to corporate users.  • Ensured RCA for all HBI incidents were submitted to client and follow up action plan were created to avoid HBI in future, while also handling escalation calls and provided direct support to VIPs. Windows Server Administrator - Production Support IBM India Pvt Limited - Chennai, Tamil Nadu July 2008 to December 2010 India  • Provided administration of multiple Domain Controllers, creating, updating, or deleting security and distribution groups, as well as performed housekeeping and cleanup tasks on Active Directory objects.  • Handled all daily Windows Server activity, built Virtual servers, and managed Snapshot for production servers.  • Managed and troubleshot AD user's login problems, researching account lockout issues using AD Lockout tools, and handling  escalation calls.  • Installed and configured hardware agents on the ESX servers for hardware monitoring and alerts, created Root Cause Analysis for any  server outages or problems, as well as planned Windows patching and ensured approvals from server owners.  • Effectively managed an off-shore team to ensure consistent productivity and results, while also creating templates as per various  business requirements and coordinated maters with vendors for hardware related issues. Education Master of Science in Computer Applications in Computer Applications Bharathidasan University Skills Active directory, Clustering, Data center, Dns, Exchange, Firewalls, Iis, Nas, Networking, Remedy, Tcp/ip, Virtual server, Virtualization, Dfs, Dhcp, Lan/wan, Nfs, Tcp, Terminal server, Vm Additional Information Skills  • Team Building & Hands-On Leader • Monitoring Server, Software & Hardware  • Customer-Service Driven Approach • Inventory & Asset Configuration Documentation  • Risk Assessments & Contingency Plans • Solid Understanding of LAN/WAN Networks  • Installing Servers, Devices & Firewalls • Diagnosing & Troubleshooting Technical Issues  • Configuring Internal Systems & Enhancements • Setting-Up & Training New Systems Users  • Group Policy Design & Configuration • Ensuring Smooth Application Deployment  • Upgrading & Optimizing Network Infrastructure • Excellent Verbal & Written Communication    Technical Skills  • Extensively experienced with Windows 2016/2012/2008/2003/2000/NT servers at both single and multi-domain platform  • Experienced with Active Directory, GPOs, DNS, DHCP, File & Print Servers, IIS (Web Server), IIS 51/60/7, FTP, Terminal Server, RIS,  RRAS, NAT, WSUS, Microsoft Clustering, Exchange Mail Server and ISA Server  • Experienced with Virtualization technologies including installing, configuring and administering VMware ESX/ESXi and creating and  managing VMs (Virtual Server), as well the maintenance of Virtual Server  • Expertise in building Microsoft Windows 2008 R2, 2008, 2003, and 2000 Servers using HP Smart Start, Array configurations  • Diagnosing Servers, updating firmware and PSP, and application software under multi-platform environments, as well as the  deployment and monitoring of physical Servers  • Experience in managing multiple Windows systems with Microsoft SCCM 2007, providing patch management, remote control, software  distribution and OS deployment  • Worked with ESX and ESXi 3, 3.5, 4.0, 4.1 and 5.1. Successfully upgraded between ESX versions 4.1 to ESXi 5.1  • Worked on vCenter Server 4.1 and 5.1 for managing multiple ESXi Servers. Built and troubleshot ESX Servers and ESXi Servers, vSphere  and vCenter Manager  • Expertise in the area of Virtualization with vSphere 5.0/4x, VMware ESXi 5, 4 and 3x hosts, along with Virtual Center Server  • Worked extensively on templates and clones and implemented and managed HA and DRS clusters. Experienced with ESX Architecture,  guest OS installation, setting up VM priorities and cloning and snapshots  • Knowledgeable with iSCSI SAN, NAS, NFS storage and RAID concepts  • Extensive understanding of networking concepts including IE network configuration, TCP/IP, VPN, VLANs, routing in LAN/WAN,  Ethernet Ports, Patch Panel virtual networking, wireless networks and Cloud computing concepts  • Experienced with x86/x64 Intel, HP and Dell hardware such as rack-mounted servers, tower servers, desktops, laptops and other  peripherals  • Responsible production support of Active Directory (AD), Group Policy (GPO), GPP, Domain users, Users and groups and gave  appropriate permissions, shares and privileges to access LAN and Domain environments, created and automated reports in SCCM  • Responsible for administrating, creating, and modifying DNS records, DHCP scopes and reservations, DFS links, Web servers including  record/scope creation, troubleshooting and WINS and DNS and managing user and group accounts Administration  • Strong knowledge and hands on experience with Data Center Migration  • Successfully migrated from Exchange Server 5.5 to Exchange Server 2003/2007  • Worked and Working on Windows and Exchange PowerShell Scripting  VMware Platform Skills: Experience with VMware vSphere, creating VM Sessions for installing multiple OS and applications; Installation,  Configuration and Administration of Virtual Infrastructure using ESX 5.X, VMware V sphere 5.x, Virtual center 5.X and 6 Servers; Build new  servers daily in legacy VMware from 2003 to 2016, and Hyper-V for applications; Creating and Patching the Templates, also built templates  from ISO image files; Deploy virtual machines from templates and allocate resources, Manage VM's using VMware virtual center and web  access, Configurations of Virtual switched and network connections. Created VM images to be used for deployment through Microsoft's  Automated Deployment Services for test network.  Microsoft Products and Tools: Office 365,SCCM,MS-Office 2003-2010,MS-Exchange 2007-2010,MS-Azure  Server Operating Systems: Windows 2003, 2008, 2010,2012 ,2016 and Windows Active Directory  Desktop Operating Systems: Windows 2008, Windows 7 and 8, Windows Vista, Windows PowerShell  Management Tools: HPSM, Service-Now, Remedy, Team track, Hyena, Message Labs, VPN-Positive Networks.