Database Administrator/ System Engineer Database <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/<span class="hl">System</span> Engineer Database Administrator/ System Engineer O'Fallon, IL ACCOMPLISHED IT PROFESSIONAL offering a solid employment background, over 23 years of experience and a strong record of performance in training, user support, security and system administration. Significant qualifications include:    ? Hardware: Dell, Compaq, Sun Micro Systems, AWS Cloud Computing  ? Operating Systems: Windows 2008/2012 Server, Solaris 2.5.1, Open VMS, Redhat Linux  ? Software: Oracle (Databases, Secure Enterprise Search & PeopleSoft), SQL Server, Atlassian Software Suite, Citrix Metaframe XP, Microsoft Exchange, HP Loadrunner, Microsoft Office  ? Limiting system downtime through preventive maintenance, coordinated scheduling, process improvement, change control and open communication.  ? Staying abreast of the implications of new information technologies by reading trade journals, participating in seminars, networking with colleagues and pursuing continuing education.  ? Planning partnerships and progression strategies in order to deliver the best business result in the least amount of time.  ? Ensuring that IT is involved in the early planning for business change through continuous, interdepartmental communication, committee involvement and change controls boards.  ? Overcoming barriers to effective use of technology through research, testing and personnel development.  ? Maintaining optimum levels of data integrity and confidentiality through firewalls, egress filtering, domain keys, intrusion detection systems and virtual private networks.  ? DoD Top Secret Clearance, March 2019. Work Experience Database Administrator/ System Engineer Quadrint, Inc - St. Louis, MO September 2015 to August 2019 Executed the operation and maintenance of Human Resources (HR) systems for the National Geospatial Agency (NGA). Mandated program integrating current policies and procedures ensuring mission compliance & readiness. Administered programs affecting recognition, security and personnel records in support of over 14K users. Provides validation and testing of new Government off-the-shelf (GOTS) and commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) releases to ensure proper and secure operations. Assist with configuration and/or troubleshooting these new components when issues arise. Lead the initiative for migrating Atlassian Products to the cloud with minimal downtime. Responsible for all aspects of system operations and maintenance (database backups / restores, security patches, system upgrades on hardware & software) on behalf of a leading information assurance corporation. Performed proactive security functions to deter, detect, isolate, contain, and recover from information system and network security intrusions. Installed, monitored, and directed proactive and reactive computer network defense measures to ensure the availability, integrity, and reliability of base networked and stand-alone information resources. Provides integration assistance to other NGA HR programs and developers on service management, COTS and GOTS products, as well as helping identify performance and security related issues within the AWS Cloud. Oracle Database Administrator NJVC - Arnold, MO March 2015 to September 2015 Oracle Enterprise Manager OEM /11g Grid Control GC for various database activities like monitoring Target databases servers, scheduling jobs, monitoring performance issues implementing suggestions, setting up alerts and patch implementation. Supported/monitored multiple nodes Oracle 11g RAC on Oracle Cluster ware platforms on high availability environment. Cloned the Oracle Applications from Production to Development servers, supported the development and testing team during implementation of the Project and on all DBA related issues Senior Consultant Booz Allen Hamilton - O'Fallon, IL September 2010 to March 2013 Agile Team Scrum Master of a group supporting 40 web developers for NGA. Provided system administration of developmental servers and administered Atlassian software suite for teams within NGA, to included upgrades and daily maintenance. Provided support of Oracle databases, created tables and accounts. Provided and maintained LDAP accounts for NGA users for access to web applications within NGA. Database/ System Engineer TRI-COR Industries, Inc - O'Fallon, IL February 2008 to September 2010 Provides support to Global Decision Support System (GDSS) with the needs of users, other system administrators, database administrators, operational engineers, software developers, and any other users of GDSS applications. Works with users or other system administrators to troubleshoot and resolve client application and application to server communication to determine the source of the malfunction. Works with GDSS Software Developers to resolve issues that are beyond the scope of the technical team. Senior Systems Analyst EADS, North America's Defense and Security Systems Solutions - O'Fallon, IL May 2004 to February 2010 Develop, interpret and implement policies in support of network and system engineering, assessment, operations, and maintenance activities throughout all lifecycle phases; product testing and compliance assessments associated with DoD networks serving over 11,000 users. Provides guidance to conduct standard Certificate of Net worthiness (CoN) reviews and evaluations of System Security Authorization Agreement (SSAA) documentation throughout a system's lifecycle, which includes conception, development, implementation, commissioning, upgrade/modification, and decommissioning. Make recommendations to Air Force policy and procedures from DoD directives that provide the vision, mission, goals objectives, roles and responsibilities. NCOIC - Command and Control Systems, Senior Systems Administrator AMC Communications Group - Scott AFB, IL June 2002 to April 2004 Charged with all facets of supervision and performance of Communications-Computer Systems (C-CS) operations and execution associated information systems support programs consisting of Air Mobility Command and Control Information Processing System serving a user base of over 7,000 users. Implemented Air Force Computer Emergency Response Team and Automated Systems Security Incident Support Team security fixes, operating system patches, and antivirus software, minimizing security risk to the system. Education Certification Computer Science McKendree University May 2011 Skills DBA, MYSQL, Oracle Dba, Sql Server, RAC Military Service Branch: USAF Service Country: United States Rank: E-6 Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner Present Security+ July 2018 to July 2021