Senior Systems Engineer; Team Lead Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer; Team Lead Senior Systems Engineer Dallas-Fort Worth, TX Accomplished, certified, award recognized, senior IT engineering professional with 20+ years specialized in all phases of systems administration, systems engineering, and delivering IT initiatives with quality and team focus. Methodical and experienced with LAN/WAN/Disaster Recovery services, strategic with cross-functional teams, and highly impactful in optimizing process improvement, enterprise-wide. Delivered best-practices for driving innovation, enabled teams to surpass IT goals, and an exceptionally proficient communicator. Highly awarded U.S. Navy Veteran with “Can Do” Attitude and encompassing forward thinking vision. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Systems Engineer; Team Lead AIG - Fort Worth, TX 2014 to July 2018 Versatile technical lead and primary escalation point for web services team working closely with Business Application leadership to enable and maintain corporate revenue. Developed critical incident resolutions to return negatively impacted Business Unit infrastructure to full operational status. Functioned as Queue Coordinator for group ensuring work flow distribution to teams. Generated KPI reports on current infrastructure composition and group work volume metrics for upper management.  Key Project Accomplishments -   - Completed WebSphere, Apache, IBM HTTP, java and Tomcat application installations for AIG enterprise, validated foundational software, followed set standards of configuration settings and ensured associated critical updates were fully tested.  - Implemented web application releases and build deployments for extensive customer base on Web based applications.  - Adhered to published Service Level Agreements in handling Service Requests and Incident resolutions, ensured communication channels were established and updated throughout progression of IT project activities.  - Primary change approver for team and participated in Change Advisory Board meetings held to present and discuss all changes from entire support organization prior to Change Management approval and change implementation.  - Maintained services billing data for group and incorporated new clients into billing structure database. Senior Storage Administrator AIG Technologies - Fort Worth, TX 2012 to 2014 Delivered high availability storage solutions to enterprise environment comprised of various Business Units in corporation with 50K+ employees.  Improved capacity provisioning processes and procedures; enhanced overall effectiveness and client satisfaction.  Key Project Accomplishments -  - Worked extensively to migrate NAS legacy capacity filers and volumes to a more efficient platform and updated Next Generation Data Center NetApp filer environments; lowered administrative overhead related to excessive monitoring and overutilized capacity.  - Monitored Network Appliance (NetApp) Storage infrastructure for capacity and threshold violations with potential negative impact to the enterprise environment.   - Analyzed capacity and ensured storage did not exceed 90% utilization; incorporated custom reports to manage 5000+ volumes on 56 NetApp filers and eliminated capacity related severity 1 incidents. Lead Technician/Service Manager AIG Technologies - Fort Worth, TX 2003 to 2012 Supervised Open Systems (Windows, Unix, ESX, Linux OS) Team as Lead Technician, recognized as Subject Matter Expert (SME) and incident escalation for all issues related to Microsoft Windows server environment. Educated teams to analyze, troubleshoot and resolve wide-spectrum of international enterprise incidents, ranging from routine procedures and break-fix incidents to complex problems. Coached and trained members to utilize all IT resources efficiently and to advance responsive support.  Key Project Accomplishments -  - Served as Open Systems Backup Administrator, responded to escalations from personnel in Windows Operations group and tasking requests from Global Backup Operations personnel. Created backup clients in Legato environment and performed troubleshooting on Enterprise backup failures to resolve. Executed file restorations for Open Systems environment which included Windows Active Directory personal and group shares and business critical production environment application data.  - Coordinated Disaster Recovery (DR) exercises for business units, ensured resource allocation, network VLAN zoning, successful data replication and restoration, including security permissions and share access with applications functionality. Adhered to strict deadlines and effectively communicated progress reports to clients. Systems Administrator TEXAS INSTRUMENTS - Dallas, TX 2000 to 2002 Results oriented Project Manager for highly visible and critical projects, including organizational procurement process, image management, asset inventory, and change management. Redesigned change management process to reflect business groups custom requirements. Coordinated information flow and taskings between multiple support groups within the organization and kept progress of projects flowing within predefined timelines and budgetary constraints. Served as Microsoft lead administrator, performing application upgrades and fixes to NT domain for primary site. Analyzed failures and corrected large-scale problems in SMS environment.  Key Project Accomplishments -  - Administered Network Appliance filers (NETAPP) storage devices and utilized Windows environment Veritas Netbackup software to ensure data integrity for critical revenue generating engineering data.  - Streamlined and redefined Image Management processes to reduce overall deployment times and achieved estimated savings of $120,000, $60,000 of which will continue to be realized annually.  - Deployed and supported laptop and desktop systems for central campus and several remote sites.  - Coordinated NT domain and Microsoft Exchange email migration and ensured adherence to regimented time guidelines ensuring minimal amount of customer impact.  - Supported 14,500- system client base serving 11,000 personnel.  - Teamed with business groups as technical advisor for product development and direction on various projects, including laser data transmission network. NT Administrator AJILON - Dallas, TX 1998 to 2000 Ensured SMS installed on site systems and created multiple scripts for repairs and installation. Deployed and supported Microsoft NT 4.0 and Win 98 computer systems in 3000 system customer base. Enhanced deployment procedures to reduce overall time and reduce client impact increasing total annual volume.    • Designed resource-tracking database for Fortune 500 company, integrating audit and reporting capabilities and introducing component asset management. Upgraded prior spreadsheet application use to database program creating report generation capability, ease of user interaction and quality of data stored. Education High school or equivalent James Bowie High School - Arlington, TX June 1982 None in Management Information Systems University of Texas at Dallas - Dallas, TX Collin County Community College - Plano, TX Tidewater Community College - Virginia Beach, VA Delgado Community College - New Orleans, LA Skills System Administrator (10+ years), Tomcat (4 years), Linux (6 years), Red Hat (5 years), Netapp (6 years), Vmware (6 years), Active Directory (5 years), AWS (1 year), Project Management (4 years), IBM Websphere (4 years), ITIL Foundations V3 (4 years), Microsoft Windows (10+ years), Redhat (6 years), Project Management (4 years), Service Management (3 years), System Engineering (4 years) Certifications/Licenses NetApp Certified Data Management Administrator August 2012 to August 2014 NetApp certification for filers/vfilers ITIL Foundation Certificate in IT Service Management January 2015 to Present ITIL Foundations IBM Certified System Administrator January 2018 to Present WebSphere Application Server Deployment v 8.5.5 and Liberty Profile Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) October 2008 Microsoft Server 2003 Additional Information SECURITY CLEARANCE Attained Secret United States security clearance