Product Manager Product Manager Product Manager Springville, UT Work Experience Product Manager Brigham Young University - Provo, UT 2014 to 2019 Provided the best possible network connectivity experience for a campus community consisting of 40,000 daily users. This included providing office connectivity for employees, pervasive Wi-Fi throughout campus buildings to enable teaching and learning, offering home internet service for on-campus housing residents and large venue Wi-Fi for a 64,000-seat football stadium and a 19,000-seat basketball arena.    • Coordinated cross-functionally with multiple departments and software engineers to create software tools for the campus network.  • Drove increased adoption of the secure campus wireless network through a network sign-in page restructuring focused on changing user behavior through interaction design.  • Created an advertising that successfully reached approximately 90% of the campus.  • Defined operational objectives based on user stories for a new network onboarding system.  • Conducted beta tests with users selected from the campus population.  • Achieved a 70% reduction in T1 support calls for on-campus housing Internet service resulting in a labor savings of $70,000 year-over-year.  • Attained a substantial reduction in support escalations to network engineers by working with help  desk management to improve documentation and training for T1 technicians.  • Created the support model for Lavell Edwards Stadium Wi-Fi to enhance the football "game day" experience for game attendees. This model was also adapted for use in the Marriott Center basketball arena.  • Took ownership of customer issues and shepherded them through to resolution. Examples include resolving an Internet access issue for NCAA required football film sharing and creating a new onboarding process to vastly simplify device onboarding for the campus network. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR - CIVIL ENGINEERING Brigham Young University - Provo, UT 2011 to 2014 Took ownership of all hardware and software needs of the Civil Engineering department. Maintained  network attached storage, software licensing maintenance for 65 separate programs, and the department  website. Supervised, hired and trained student technicians, managed direct desktop support for faculty and graduate students, maintained and augmented student computer labs.    • Designed and built BYU VuePod 3D visualization lab which streamlined processing and visualization of LiDAR data. Similar installations at the time cost $500,000 or more utilizing  custom hardware. The BYU design was completed for $30,000 with a 12x increase in effective  resolution compared to similar systems.  • Rebuilt the department website for usability and accessibility of information.  • Produced, directed, co-wrote, and edited a video which was presented to the United Nations to promote the multi-university "World Water" initiative.  • Designed and built a portable videoconferencing system for $1,800, saving approximately $8,000  over non-portable systems. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Utah Valley University - Orem, UT 2008 to 2011 Managed support for faculty, staff and students in the University College. Maintained 120 lab computers in 5 separate computer labs, provided technical support for 60 faculty, managed Active Directory, application servers, and planned technology purchases for the departments within the college.    • Created the University College imaging procedure and infrastructure.  • Reduced check-in time for peer tutoring from 45 seconds per person to 20 seconds. Check-out times reduced from 30 seconds to 5 seconds.  • Hired, trained and supervised lab assistants  • Ensured college compliance with university information security policies  • Maintained and ensured high uptime of TutorTrac server used by academic tutoring  • Managed the transition from Novell Netware to Microsoft Active Directory Education Bachelor of Science in Digital Media UTAH VALLEY UNIVERSITY - Orem, UT Skills Coaching (8 years), Project Planning (5 years), Software Development (5 years), Solutions (10+ years), Training (10+ years), USER EXPERIENCE DESIGN (5 years), UX (5 years), UX Design (5 years), Web Services (9 years), Agile Scrum (5 years), Product Development (5 years), Product Management (5 years), Communications (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Adobe (10+ years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/davidandrus