Senior Systems Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Systems Administrator - Parsons Government Services Huntsville, AL Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator Parsons Government Services - Huntsville, AL March 2019 to Present Responsible for managing the overall administration of Servers in a VMware Enterprise environment. Including Microsoft Windows Server 2008R2, Windows Server 2012, Windows Server 2016, as well as Windows 7 and 10 PC workstations in a physical secured lab configuration through a Microsoft Windows Active Directory domain on a disconnected secure local area network (LAN). Maintained security compliance by deploying patches through Microsoft Windows Server Update Service (WSUS). Maintains RMF (Risk Management Framework) compliance through review of existing Group Policy structure. Preformed regular STIG review to maintain the defense posture of the server environment. Performed administration activities such as setting user accounts, roles, access, and privileges. Prepares and maintains documentation of technologies, standards, and procedures for server and workstation lifecycle management Senior IT Consultant CGI Federal/GSSC - Huntsville, AL October 2018 to March 2019 Responsible for managing the overall administration of Microsoft Windows Server 2012R2 servers in a physical secured environment, as well as Windows 7 and 10 PC workstations in a physical secured lab configuration through a Microsoft Windows Active Directory domain. Maintains Dell EMC storage servers and expansion storage appliances for high level data availability. Maintains compliance and security posture by deploying monthly operating system updates, upgrades and patches. Prepares and maintains documentation of technologies, standards, and procedures for server and workstation lifecycle management. Responsible for installing, configuring and deploying new PCs & Servers. Maintains RMF (Risk Management Framework) compliance through review of existing Group Policy structure and makes updates as needed. Preforms active STIG management to maintain the security posture of the server environment. Additionally, manages full and incremental backups and offsite tape storage utilizing Veritas NetBackup. Provides weekly detailed project status reporting as directed by management. Senior Systems Administrator Wavelink - Huntsville, AL December 2017 to August 2018 Responsible for managing the overall administration of Microsoft Windows Server 2012R2 servers and Microsoft SQL servers in a VMware Enterprise environment utilizing VMware vSphere vCenter through a Microsoft Windows Active Directory domain. Maintained security posture through reviewing Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) Information Assurance Vulnerability Alerts (IAVA). Maintained compliance by deploying patches through Microsoft Windows Server Update Services (WSUS). Maintained IAVA (Information Assurance Vulnerability Alert) and RMF (Risk Management Framework) compliance through review of existing Group Policy structure and made updates as needed. Prepared and maintained documentation of technologies, standards, and procedures for server lifecycle management. Preformed active STIG management to maintain the defense posture of the server environment. Performed administration activities such as setting user accounts, roles, access, and privileges. Programmer Phacil - Huntsville, AL August 2016 to November 2017 Designed and coded application components in an Agile environment for the United States Army's Procurement Automated Data and Document System (PADDS) in a Linux server environment. Coded and tested complex application programs as assigned for the United States Army's Procurement Automated Data and Document System (PADDS), and performed program modifications as directed. Developed programming specifications and associated documentation to support program changes for the United States Army's Procurement Automated Data and Document System (PADDS). Systems Administrator III Alutiiq/COLSA/Vista Technical Solutions - Huntsville, AL August 2015 to March 2016 Responsible for managing the overall administration of Servers in an VMware Enterprise environment. Including Microsoft Windows Server 2008R2, Windows Server 2012, through a Microsoft Windows Active Directory domain. Maintained security Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) Information Assurance Vulnerability Alerts (IAVA) compliance by deploying patches through Microsoft Windows Server Update Service (WSUS). Maintained IAVA (Information Assurance Vulnerability Alert) and DIACAP (Defense Information Assurance Certification an Accreditation Process) compliance through review of existing Group Policy structure. Preformed regular STIG review to maintain the defense posture of the server environment. Performed administration activities such as setting user accounts, roles, access, and privileges. Database Administrator CALIBRE - Huntsville, AL January 2015 to August 2015 Provided database management and technical support for the United States Army's Logistics Information Warehouse (LIW), and the Integrated Logistics Analysis Program (ILAP). Configured, tuned and maintained Oracle 10g and 11g database servers. Responsible for logical and physical database design, implementation, and maintenance on Unix server platform. Involved in all phases of database development, from needs assessment to QA/QC, design, and support. Applied database updates and security patches. Performed routine backups of data. Monitored databases and their hosts with Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM). Identify, recommend, and implement all new database technologies and Oracle license management. Programmer CALIBRE - Huntsville, AL March 2014 to January 2015 Designed and coded complex application components in an Agile environment for the United States Army's Logistics Information Warehouse (LIW). Coded and tested complex application programs as assigned for the United States Army's Logistics Information Warehouse (LIW) and performed program modifications as directed. Developed programming specifications and associated documentation to support program changes required for the United States Army's Logistics Information Warehouse (LIW). Utilized Subversion, a Configuration Management/Version Control software tool to ensure proper versioning of code modules and consistency within team development environment for the United States Army's Logistics Information Warehouse (LIW). Network Engineer CALIBRE - Huntsville, AL March 2012 to March 2014 Provided the US Army with hardware and technical support for the Logistics Information Warehouse (LIW), a logistics automation application used to analyze maintenance, supply, and financial data. Maintained the Huntsville ILAP (Integrated Logistics Analysis Program) server stack, supporting VMware infrastructure, as well as provided support to the Logistics Integrated Warehouse (LIW) forward applications for US Army Material Command Logistics Support Activity (AMC LOGSA). Maintained IAVA (Information Assurance Vulnerability Alert) and DIACAP (Defense Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process) compliance through the Army Gold Master Program. Performed Retina and SCAP (Compliance Checker) scans to ensure that the supported servers were secure and compliant. Provided hardware support to include recommended upgrades. Supported various Citrix products and configurations (Citrix Metaframe, Citrix XenApp), Aspera, Windows Server 2003 and Windows Server 2008 R2, Standard and Enterprise edition. Utilizing Microsoft SharePoint, assisted in the development and administration of software version control portal for new and existing Logistics Information Warehouse (LIW) applications. Technical Support Analyst CALIBRE - Huntsville, AL March 2011 to March 2012 Provided the US Army with Technical and Functional Help Desk Support through operations for Logistics Information Warehouse (LIW), a logistics automation application used to analyze maintenance, supply, and financial data. Supported LIW users via telephone, onsite and email. Assisted in providing quality assurance for IT support services. Performed system maintenance through daily monitoring and facilitation of data flow procedures. Monitored, reported, and documented the successes and failures of data loads for Standard Army Retail Supply System Level 1 (SARSS-1) and data at the Forward sites to senior staff members. Troubleshot issues with data loads for current data and accurate reporting. Monitored the daily flow of maintenance data from Standard Army Maintenance System Enhanced (SAMS-E) through ILAP (Integrated Logistics Analysis Program) servers and into the LIW; ensure information assurance, data integrity and availability throughout the entire system for all LIW users. Information Systems PC & Network Technician Crestwood Medical Center - Huntsville, AL February 2004 to March 2011 Responsible for SharePoint development to implement and maintain corporate portal for Hospital employees. Deployed and configured new computer and network equipment as part of a six-million-dollar clinical conversion. Provided help desk support and training on various Microsoft and health care related applications. Utilized Helpdesk ticketing systems to prioritize customer problems and ensure quick resolution. Responsible for the repair and assembly of personal computers. Designed and deployed new network infrastructure as needed. Responsible for the set-up of users, groups, and devices in Active Directory and Microsoft Exchange. Evaluate, install, configure, and deploy new applications, products, and/or enhancements to existing products or applications. Updated, maintained, and configured hardware systems and software systems for Hospital operations, and maintained hospital wide wireless network for both secure hospital data and unsecured wireless for patient use. Education BS/BA in Information Systems University of Alabama in Huntsville - Huntsville, AL 2012 AA in Business Calhoun Community College 2010 Skills Citrix, Metaframe, Vmware, Iis, Remedy, Database, Microsoft access, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Sql, Jira, Linux, Unix, Coldfusion, Css, Sharepoint, Microsoft sharepoint, Splunk, .net Additional Information Computer Experience:  DATABASE  Oracle (10g, 11g), Microsoft SQL Server, Microsoft Access  Hardware  IBM compatibles (servers, workstations and peripherals)  Operating Systems  MS-DOS (Microsoft-Disc Operating System), Windows (95, XP, Vista, 7, Server 2000, Server 2003, Server 2008R2, Server 2012R2), UNIX, Linux, VMware  Programming Languages  Microsoft Visual Basic, .NET, VB Script, HTML/XHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, SQL, C, Flash, ColdFusion  Software  Citrix Metaframe and Citrix XenServer, Microsoft Visual Studio, Microsoft SharePoint, Adobe Photoshop (4.0, 5.0, 6.0, 7.0, and CS4), Microsoft Office Suite, VMware, Microsoft IIS, Atlassian JIRA, Jama Contour, Subversion, MobileMax, Splunk, BMC Remedy, Service Now, CommVault