Sr. Windows Systems Admin Sr. Windows <span class="hl">Systems</span> Admin Lead IAM Analyst Baltimore, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Windows Systems Admin T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc - Baltimore, MD October 2016 to Present Windows Systems Administrator Laureate Education - Baltimore, MD December 2014 to October 2016 Systems Administrator II Americas Remote Helpdesk - Baltimore, MD December 2012 to November 2014 Desktop Support Technician 1st Mariner Bank - Baltimore, MD January 2007 to December 2012 • Installed, configured (using Acronis imaging software), maintained and troubleshot applications.    • Provided second level support to Helpdesk Support    • Produced backup software for distribution and maintenance all computers and peripherals.    • Ordered and distributed consumable supplies for peripherals and oversaw all computer repairs and maintenance.    • Maintained accurate, complete and up-to-date inventory records of all computers and printers.    • Coordinated the logistics of technology requirements and setups during multiple office relocations.    • Provided functional and technical support, troubleshooting and diagnosing hardware and software problems, including desktop, laptop, WAN, LAN, and remote systems.    • Assisted in the installation and updating of software, as well as the setup and troubleshooting of all equipment.    • Expertly installed, configured, monitored and troubleshot PC's and related hardware on all OS platforms.    • Oversaw the investigation and resolution of hardware and software issues both remotely and onsite.    • Collaborated with telecommunication team to troubleshoot T1 lines and company-wide phone problems.    • Procured, received, documented and tracked inventory of all computer equipment and software licenses.    • Performed diagnostic testing on PC equipment and ensured printers were up and running at all times.    • Resolved Windows and Internet Explorer issues on desktop and laptop.    • Identified and removed computer viruses and provided major repairs in accordance with outside vendors.    • Performed wiring and daily maintenance of internal computer systems.    • Resolved Windows related issues, Internet Explorer issues and other PC software related issues.    • Monitored and troubleshot LAN, installed and configured routers and switches, and generated weekly reports    *Serving over 1600 clients of a Maryland-based financial institution in 5 states.    * Using software such as VNC Viewer, DameWare, and LogMeIn (web-based) to connect to a user's pc remotely and repair/debug multiple issues.    * Working with many vendors to repair power issues, certain hardware, and telephone systems.* Implementing a first level support journal to provide resolutions to multiple issues for future use.    * Hardware (Remotely and On-Site)  Uninstalling/Reinstalling printers and scanners  Installing/Repairing mice, keyboards, and other peripheral devices.    * Have received multiple commendations for excellent customer service skills.    *I was on the Helpdesk serving over 1600 clients. Education Comp TIA Certifications in IT UMBC - Catonsville, MD January 2005 to May 2005