Project Manager (Infra) Project Manager (Infra) Project Manager (Infra) Goleta, CA To contribute to an organization which is able to effectively use my skills and experience in Information Technology. Work Experience Project Manager (Infra) Optimum Solutions (for DBS Bank Singapore) March 2014 to May 2019 DBS is a leading financial services group in Asia, with over 200 branches across 15 markets.  Headquartered and listed in Singapore, DBS is a market leader in Singapore with over four million customers and also has a growing presence in the three key Asian axes of growth, namely, Greater China, Southeast Asia and South Asia.    • Managing projects which involves provisioning of new servers, migration or application upgrades from inception until closure.  • Work closely with Delivery Teams and Application Leads to discuss the project objectives and scope  • Work closely with Application SME's and Infra Team to ensure work is completed on time.  • Coordinate with all interfacing systems that will be impacted by the changes. To raise a UR for regression testing or enhancements.  • To ensure RPCCB and ADR requirements are complete  • Work closely with Infra Lead to make sure IDR artifacts are complete  • Raise CR's, DEP and PEP for change related activities  • Raise ROR for applications reaching EOL/EOS for tracking Environment and Regression Testing Support Optimum Solutions (for DBS Bank Singapore) September 2012 to March 2014 • Perform regression and testing support for Integrated Platform projects  • Monitors Integrated Platform services, performs daily health check of the server status and application  • Plans and coordinate scheduled maintenance  • Work closely with infra team to report any server related issues  • Provide SOW for User Requests  • Creates monthly billing time sheets based on UR and PC Code  • Generate weekly BW engine status reports Systems Administrator (Linux) Encora Inc (for DBS Bank Singapore) July 2011 to September 2012 • Red Hat OS installation and hardening (Prod, DR and UAT Servers)  • Provision of VMware Virtual Machine Servers / Virtual Machine Template  • Perform regular patch updates  • Perform maintenance, troubleshooting and parts replacement if necessary  • Perform system and application change requests  • Documentation and Implementation of Pre-Network, Pre-Production, and Decommission of servers  • Creates basic shell scripts for task automation  • Working in a Data Center Environment, receives server and appliance deliveries and supervise the rack mounting performed by the vendor Systems Administrator Encora Inc (for DBS Bank Singapore) March 2008 to July 2011 • Reviewer and Approver of IBM Implementation Team for DBS Bank's Production and DR Change Requests  • Manages the Team Functional ID's and Team Schedules.  • ADC and AMS Processing of artifacts ( Implementer, Verifier and Closer )  • Deploys production applications and patches for DBS under Windows, AIX, Solaris and AS400.  • Performs software release updates from UAT / Staging to Production servers  • Meet's with the application developers to discuss the details on how the implementation will be done and in case of problem, the troubleshooting and the reversion procedure. Systems Administrator (Linux) Chikka Phils Inc. Ayala Makati City Phils March 2004 to October 2007 - Chikka Phils, Inc. is a wireless application service provider, better known for creating the world's first instant messenger to fully integrate mobile features via SMS, the "Chikka Messenger." The Chikka Messenger has 38 million registered users, including mobile subscribers from network operators worldwide. The messenger is also interoperable with Google Talk.    • Install/Harden Linux OS and Windows (CentOS/RedHat/XP/2003) from a bare machine.  • Maintains Kerio Mail/Zenoss/DNS/Openfiler/Apache servers.  • Maintains and monitors Chikka Internet Messenger and applications deployed on more than 60 Linux servers globally.  • Create company accounts via Active Directory and company email via Kerio Mail Server  • Performs hardware troubleshooting in case of server failure.  • Directly report to TELCO Providers for any issues and login problems or Leased Line issues being experienced at any given time.  • Performs server migration.  • Performs application and database migration.  • Conduct Investigations requested by Globe/Smart/Sun regarding client inquiries. IT Support Specialist Contact Point Outsource Services, Inc. Ortigas Pasig City Phils July 2003 to March 2004 - ContactPoint Outsource Services, Inc. is a customer relationship management company utilizing voice technologies. A spin-off from the call center operations of Pacific Internet Philippines, ContactPoint evolved into a fully operational global outsourcing call center.    • Create company accounts via Active Directory.  • Monitors the Avaya (Dialer Server) using Genesys to ensure that the dialer performs efficiently.  • Ensure that the computers, servers, switch and router operates at its peak performance. In case of downtime, to troubleshoot the problem and to report and escalate the problem as soon as an incident was encountered.  • To generate daily reports/logs on how the dialer performs.  • Installation and configuration of software/OS for agents use.  • Coordinates with Echopass for fault isolation and troubleshooting.  • Creates/modify accounts in active directory for company employees.  • PC Assembly from ground up and parts replacement if incase of hardware failure. Senior Technical Support Engineer/Corporate Pacific Internet Phils. Ortigas Pasig City Phils January 2001 to July 2003 -Pacific Internet is one of the pioneer Internet Service Providers (ISPs) in the Philippines. Being the only multinational ISP in the country, Pacific Internet capitalizes on its strong Asia-Pacific presence to offer unmatched world-class Internet communication products and services.    • Team Leader which administers the company's technical service operations by heading and taking charge of the customer technical support service.  • Setup internet sharing applications like wingate (client/server), winroute, ICS and other proxy servers.  • Provides technical reports regarding outages, maintenance, downtimes, updates and team performance.  • Provides on-call, on-site, in-house and online customer technical support.  • Give tutorial to clients regarding on how to use their internet and other software involved. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering AMA Computer College Quezon City Phils 1996 to 2001 Skills Word, Outlook Additional Information An IT Professional with over 18 years of working experience in the following areas:  • Project Management  • Unix System Administration  • Technical Support and Customer service