Platform Services Engineer Platform Services Engineer Platform Services Engineer - Data Centers Santa Cruz, CA Work Experience Platform Services Engineer Data Centers February 2019 to Present Contracting for Arm I have been assisting in the operation of a global 24/7 IT support and infrastructure team who support the headquarters office in Cambridge, and 40 satellite offices Worldwide. Responsible supporting a global VMware vSphere 6.5 Linked vCenter server environment of 100 hosts and 25 Data Centers. Assist in the support of migrating Data Centers, an Office 365 / Exchange 2016 hybrid environment, Azure AD, Azure DSC and Microsoft Identity Manger. Managing a large Active Directory forest supporting 135 Domain Controllers running Windows 2012R2 and 2016 Server Core. Auditing, identifying and implementing changes to remediate problems involving replication permissions, DHCP / DNS record registration permissions issues in the forest zone, Lingering Object removal, managing certificates and Certificate Services ADCS, Advanced Group Policy management AGPM, troubleshooting SCCM deployment issues, resolving forest time issues and general directory cleanup. Discovering and remediating DNS issues, resolution, diagnostic reporting, sniffing DNS traffic to identify areas of problem or interest with managing Proteus BlueCat Networks load balanced global DNS environment. Implemented a suffix search order policy set for the 4 regions, managing certificate creation and installation. Identifying and resolving Domain Controller configuration issues in the forest. Deploying Windows 2016 Server Core Domain Controllers using Azure DSC runbook. Responsible for several ticking queues problems and incidents and changes within Service Now. Assisting with the migration project to reduce the footprint of the San Jose Datacenter and relocating in the Austin office. Senior Systems Engineer West Marine November 2015 to December 2018 At West Marine, I lead a small team which oversaw and managed the server environment. Roughly 500 servers 99 percent virtual running, Windows , VMware ESXi and Centos in multiple environments from QA, INT/Dev, Staging and Production and Ecommerce. I have 20 years of experience supporting servers and networks, software applications, Active Directory, environment troubleshooting, system and network security professional, email environments, deployment, firewalls, VPN's routers and switching and storage. I am able to support a broad range of storage and virtualization technologies, and have the ability to support and maintain them in corporate, production and enterprise e-commerce environments.    • Lead administrator for the largest retailer of water life products West Marine Products Inc. with over 400 stores nationwide.  • Planning and preparation for an Active directory forest migration, upgrade and domain restructuring.  • Documented and resolved 80 problem areas in configuration. Raise functionality of the source forest pre-migration.  • Built new environment for migration to including, a Windows 2012 Active Directory including root and child domains, 21 domain controllers, new PKI infrastructure, Multi site Exchange environment with Dag replication and two SCCM primary sites.  • Migrated, duplicated or re-created all domain configurations in preparation for forest domain migration including, GPO policies, DNS structure, DHCP scopes, Certificate Services, Domain controllers and Sites and Services to the new environment.  • Installed and configured Quest / Dell migration manager suite and forest trust with SID history.  • Assist in the management and support of the stores.wm retail stores forest and machines.  • Responsible for property email environment production and corporate running Microsoft Exchange 2013 DAG, Sendmail, Postfix and Barracuda networks. Office 365 Migration  • General Linux administration Centos, Redhat for webservers, apache, tomcat Mail servers, sendmail, Postfix & FTP.  • Shared responsibility for VMware vSphere5.5 administration, patching and remediation.  • Shared responsibility DELL EMC Clarion and EMC Unity FC Storage administration.  • Oversaw server backup and backup replication using Dell EMC Avamar and Data Domain.  • Responsible for Corporate and Production Active Directory infrastructure including 45 Domain controllers across three forests.  • Responsible for PKI infrastructure with online root and Subordinate servers, certificate & keystore issuing and management.  • Responsible for Shore Tel VoIP property telephone system connectivity.  • Responsible for server security patching and software deployment via SCCM.  • Responsible for monitoring services using Solar Winds Orion configuring application monitors and alerts\  • PowerShell scripting for custom webserver log monitoring with Solar Winds.  • PowerShell scripting for AD management, Exchange 2013 and service account password changes.  • Responsible for SQL clustered environments SQL 2005 - 2012  • Migrated 2000 Trend OfficeScan clients to a new server with updated Trend XG software platform  • Responsible for server and system security and ASV scan remediation and server security implementation.  • Cisco Switch administration Nexus, IOS and CatOS  • The Re-IP of 7 Production Datacenters and all equipment due to conflicting address space between Seagate and Evault's private networks. All data, ESXi VMware cluster's with VM's running on EMC Isolon storage arrays running NFS. A follow up process to identify orphaned systems on the networks which were to be decommissioned was completed before the routed interfaces and interface VLANS are removed.  • Managing Evault backups on corporate servers, auditing logs and troubleshooting and resolving backup failures.  • Responsible for the deployment of Seagate's McAfee's VirusShield virus scanner and the removal Microsoft Endpoint Protection on corporate and production servers.  • Assist the Help Desk with SCCM packaging deployments, reporting, client Deployment, MacOS and Windows 8 administration. Systems Administrator - M & A Dept. Information Technology Seagate January 2015 to October 2015 Contracting for Seagate working in the Mergers and Acquisitions Department assisting with the project planning and execution pertaining to the Merger and Acquisition of Evault, Inc. My duties included the following:    • EVault Active Directory Integration and Migration Project - Assist in the migration of Evault Inc. corporate Active Directory to Seagate Active Directory using the ADMT security translation for SID history and offline domain join to Seagate Active Directory.  • EVault Desktop/Helpdesk Integration - User workstation & application functionality testing migration from corp.ssv.com to ad.seagate.com Identify issues and resolving issues with the ADMT migration script.  • EVault Integration - Infrastructure - VMware environment management, balancing resources in the datacenter clusters, spinning up new VM's for new domain controllers in 11 sites.  • EVault Network Support - CSS EVault Server & Active Directory support for Corporate and Production Directory Services Migration.  • Managing the setup and configuration of the Active Directory Migration Tool, which provides the Security Translation and user migration from the Evault corporate domain, corp.ssv.com to Seagate's ad.seagate.com provided to us by Seagate.  • Performed migration of the production Active Directory forest root domain, Prod.dca from AD 2008R2 to AD 2012 introduced four new Domain Controllers running 2012 R2 and retired four Domain Controllers in the HQ site.  • Responsible for Corporate and Production Active Directory infrastructure including 60 Domain controllers across four forests.  • Responsible for Active Directory Domain Controller maintenance, diagnosing and resolving configuration issues, to align with best practices. Evault does not currently have a corporate IT staff so I have assumed some day-to-day operations.  • Currently working with the Network Operations team resolving insufficient network port connection for the Active Directory Domain Controllers between 11 Datacenters on a newly implemented Directory Services VLAN for the Domain Controllers.  • Configured a domain forest trust connecting Evault corporate to ad.seagate.com.  • Responsible for Active Directory account management/batch modification of all Evault users for user account name and Seagate GID, Employee Number. Active Directory bulk user modification using CVDSE, Log Parser and LDIFDE, for 800 users.  • Responsible for building the new Active Directory domain infrastructure for the production network. New Active Directory domain controllers to collapse and replace the 8 child domains to just one root domain, prod.dca.  • Tasked with the clean-up of stale objects in the environment including, stale user and computer's accounts, legacy and unused DNS records in preparation for the migration to Seagate's Active Directory.  • Office 365 migration from the cloud to On-Premise Exchange for 200 mail users with expiring licenses.  • InfoBlox Secure DNS & DHCP appliance migration from Microsoft Active Directory DNS and DHCP.  • Manage and monitor the SolarWinds Orion network monitoring server & IPAM.  • The Re-IP of 7 Production Datacenters and all equipment due to conflicting address space between Seagate and Evault's private networks. All datacenters include standard hardware, cisco routers and switches, Juniper Firewalls APC UPS, ESXi VMware cluster's with VM's running on EMC Isolon storage arrays running NFS. A follow up process to identify orphaned systems on the networks which were to be decommissioned was completed before the routed interfaces and interface VLANS are removed.  • Managing Evault backups on corporate servers, auditing logs and troubleshooting and resolving backup failures.  • Responsible for the deployment of Seagate's McAfee's VirusShield virus scanner and the removal Microsoft Endpoint Protection on corporate and production servers.  • Assist the Help Desk with SCCM packaging deployments and reporting. System and Networking Engineer - Information Technology Applied Weather Technology Taos May 2014 to September 2014 Working at Taos and contracting for Applied Weather technology as a Systems and Network admin. Here are some the items completed during my assignment.  • Diagnose issue where Active Directory SYSVOL folder and the policies within were deleted from one of the DC's, which effectively deleted the policies for the forest.  • Migrated configured AWT DNS resolution from the resolver model to the forwarding model.  • Configured an external domain trust to parent company Stormgeo.  • Force removal of Shoretel VOIP child Domain which was orphaned and unnecessary in design.  • Created Acronis image level backup of Shoreline VoIP 1u physical server  • Installed and configured 3rd Domain Controller at Sunnyvale for the awt.com site.  • Fixed slow user logon and logout behavior due to primary SYSVOL failure clients had failed over to New York for SYSVOL NETLOGON and the registry key to allow client SYSVOL fallback was applied on all DC's.  • Full DNS server and zones configuration and functionality audit plus zone export documentation provided.  • Manually removed orphaned and conflicting AD objects for the ny1main child Domain.  • Installed and configured a new Domain Controller in a new site for New York to replace the current orphaned child site.  • Recovered deleted ny1awt.awt.com Domain Controller computer object from ad recycle bin to regain some functionality. Domain Controller host resolution for replication, DNS forwarding resolution and LDAP and GC service records.  • Installed and configured Microsoft Lync 2013 server, IM, desktop sharing and presence awareness with client single sign on Sip DNS Domain.  • 1000' Cat 6a storage cable run and patch installation. Three 48 port patch panels wire harness and management installed. 36 ports cross connect the existing server storage rack, the new server storage rack. The remaining 12 ports on each storage rack terminate to the switch rack. Patch panels and cat 6a installed for 10 gig copper trunks to the distribution and access layer switches in switch rack. Redundant storage path cross connect 10 Gig for SAN and ESX hosts.  • Identified physical systems not being backed up, installed Symantec Backup Exec agent and configured disk based backup scheduled jobs.  • DNS network discovery and audit for the AWT network. Ping scans DNS audit reports and port scans of the 10.10.0.0/19 network to identify all devices and servers.  • Packaged production IIS website with Web Deploy 3.5 Entire site, asp app pools, certs database links and files.  • Router Switch and VLAN Interface Document showing all IP addresses interfaces occupied by the routers and switches along with a rack elevation diagram.  • Installed 3 Cisco Nexus 3064t lawyer 3 switches/ VLANs, mgmt. interfaces default route, SNMP and spanned channel group uplink trunks.  • Configured virtual port channel on Cisco Nexus 3k switches for Active Active link aggregation for ESXi 5.5 hosts running on Dell R620's.  • vSphere 5.5 Virtual Switch port group configuration for Jumbo Frames on ESXi hosts.  • Moved Prod-A cluster 4 ESXi hosts and data connections to new storage rack.  • Install and configured Whatsup Gold 16 monitoring software as primary NOC. With active and passive monitors, link down trap and default service checks.  • Managed and configure user switch port VLAN access. Assigning switch port VLAN access and configuring LACP Port Channel groups.  • Installed redundant chassis power module cable on stacked cisco c3750x03 stacked switch for chassis power failover.  • Troubleshoot ASA VPN firewall interesting traffic to remote website resolution issue with parent company Stormgeo. Sr. Systems Administrator in the Systems Engineering Department Systems Engineering - Information Technology December 2013 to May 2014 12/2013 - 5/2014    Completed short term contract for West Marine as a Sr. Systems Administrator in the Systems Engineering Department. At West Marine, I worked in a medium to large team environment assisting with maintaining, troubleshooting, and upgrading their Enterprise Class Network, working both in the production and corporate environments. West Marine has been working tirelessly in preparation for the launch of their new E-commerce site leveraging a new production environment for scalability, redundancy, and PCI compliance. The new environment will increase the site's content and ability to handle higher traffic loads while increasing redundancy at HQ and the datacenters.  • Worked along with other Systems Engineers, Network Engineers, Architects, and Project Managers to meet the deliverables on time.  • Reducing the ticket queue volume and fielding any incoming tickets to assist the team.  • Tasked with drafting a proposal for the new production E-commerce mail gateway cluster with separate MX namespace isolated from the corporate mail traffic and mail gateway.  • Redesigned the internal mail traffic route for internal hosts relaying mail to Exchange. Installed and configured Anonymous Relay send connectors allowing full relay capability for specified hosts or networks. With the current setup, mail from internal hosts would relay mail to the Barracuda Mail Firewalls interface then back inside to exchange. This setup is not best practice. It lengthens the mail route and can cause possible mail queuing issues. To achieve full relay functionality, you must disable protection for mail spoofing, and LDAP user lookups for valid email addresses. The setup primarily weakens the Barracuda Mail Firewalls ability to be a firewall.  • Processed mailbox restores for six users located on individual databases from tape backup to an Exchange 2007 Cluster using the Recovery Storage Group option using PowerShell to extract the mailboxes to a recovery user.  • Managing Exchange 2007 Clustered mail server with approximately twenty terabytes of mail.  • Barracuda Mail Firewall configuration and security audit. Configured binary and MIME type scanning for executable code inside zip files. Re-assigned NTP time source to the internal domain. Rejoined the cluster on two Barracuda mail firewalls running in production for the corporate mail domain.  • Created and implemented a Software Restriction Policy Group Policy Object applied to all West Marine clients successfully blocking the ability to run executables inside user's local appdata directory and directories within.  • Managing Disk based and tape library backups using Arcserve 16.5 at Headquarters and the Datacenters. Identifying and fixing job failures, uninstalling and reinstalling new agents. Implemented and configured Arcserve 16.5 D2D disk based backup solution for fifty Windows and LINUX hosts, at the production datacenter.  • Tasked with the auditing and documenting external and internal forest wide DNS configuration and resolution. Prepared a detailed problem and solution document containing 30 points of misconfiguration, corrupt zones, missing or junk zone records including, SRV records for 20 DC's in two domains conditionally forwarding requests to the Corp root NS at HQ. Configured DNS to the more efficient forwarding model which forwarding unknown external lookup requests to the ISP Name servers instead of resolving from local cache or processing external lookup requests. Using topology diagraming software to verify accurate DNS traffic between the DCs and out to the external forwarders. Set record scavenging for zone records and re-write any missing domain and forest records.  • Manage and audit the configuration of Windows 2003 Active Directory multi domain multi forest and trust.  • Configured forest time to the domain model with an external source. Configuring the forest root PDC to use an external source and the domain controllers to look for time at the domain source. All servers and clients were configured for windows domain time.  • Consolidated Active directory Sites and Services collapsing roughly 80 individual subnets into several supernets for both forests.  • Assisting the Network Architect diagraming the new production environment to identify system and application specific directional traffic paths from the backend to the website user. Identifying the standard and PCI network traffic for secure customer cardholder data and secure SQL, SSL, SFTP application traffic. The diagram will be used as a template for the colocation, datacenter production, and pre-production environments. Senior Systems Administrator Meriwest Credit Union October 2008 to December 2013 • Lead Windows System Administrator, including 2008 Active Directory, 2010 Exchange, Windows Servers, and Workstations.  • Lead Corporate Mail Administrator - Exchange 2010, Webmail with Google/Postini services and third party secure email portal.  • Lead backup administrator running EVault/i365, local and cloud storage.  • Web Traffic Administrator managing a Pac File routing system and two redundant Barracuda Web Filters.  • Network and system security. Worked with SecureWorks to raise overall systems security from a below average to an above average rating.  • Assisted with migration of Dell EMC SAN to Dell Compellent 40-Gig Backplane SAN with 10-Gigabit Ethernet.  • Active directory migration from 2003 to 2008, including roles and services.  • Windows Scripting, software packaging, and deployment - WSUS patch management.  • Successful migration of Exchange 2003 to Exchange 2010 with secure TMG Gateway webmail frontend.  • Data Center Management through INX/Presidio - responsible for maintaining backup and redundant services rack space.  • Dell Server, ISCSI, Direct Attached Storage Administrator in charge of local and remote backup storage vaults.  • Assist with implementation and support of four ESX Host VMware environment running vSphere.    Meriwest Credit Union, .  Senior Systems Administrator 10/2008 - 12/2013    • Cisco ASA redundant firewall management.  • Home banking Site Administrator - Redundant IIS7 Microsoft NLB.  • Network and Server Log Monitoring - Windows event and sys log.  • Management of Server hardware and application functionality.  • Manage BMI-EMC corporate check imaging systems, housing over 22 million check and statement images.  • Synapsys Customer Relationship Management (CRM) Administrator.  • Data TELCO infrastructure specialist, line installer, locator and terminator.  • AT&T AirWatch corporate cell phone security.  • On call 24 x 7 support for HQ.  • Tier three helpdesk support assisting with over 300+ users, systems and applications. Senior Systems Administrator Sylantro Systems October 2007 to September 2008 • Designed and implemented integration between Microsoft Office Communicator Server 2007 and 3rd party VoIP and SIP based PBX with CSTA Gateway for the Global 2008 Summit to be used as an integration demonstration.  • Installed and configured a Network Appliance FAS 2020 to replace existing Corporate File Servers, UNIX home directory servers.  • Troubleshoot and resolve problems with corporate mail reliability, SPAM and Juniper NetScreen Firewall issues relating to external Webmail availability.  • Installed and configured Cisco Catalyst 3650G with a dual port channel gigabit uplink to a Cisco Catalyst 4000 switch.  • Centralized Corporate Backups for Headquarters, China and India development sites in Windows and UNIX environment.  • Responsible for Bridgehead Exchange 2003 front and back end mail environment for Headquarters, India and China.  • Microsoft Live Communication Server 2005 administration with 3rd party PBX integration.  • Perforce administration and migration to Network Appliance.  • Maintain Cisco routing and switching.  • Configure and manage Juniper SA2000 SSLVPN's with RSA Secure ID authentication in HQ, China, and India.  • Intermediate Redhat and Sun Solaris administration.  • VMware ESX server and converter administration and configuration.  • Maintain Network Operations Console/NOC.  • Managed MPLS Network to India and China.  • Responsible for supporting 200 users systems and applications.  • On call 24 x 7 support for HQ and International offices.  • Asset Management.  • Lead technical support agent overseeing all standards and processes.  • Windows group policy management and scripting.  • First line for network troubleshooting and identification, WiFi, Lan Wan and home office. Information Technology Specialist iPass, Inc October 2004 to October 2007 • Deployed Microsoft Office 2007 to over 700 users.  • Management and support with desktop, laptop and some aspects in the server environment.  • Primarily responsible for remote software/application packaging, deployment and management, using the iPass, Inc. Enterprise Deployment Software.  • Custom SQL Package Development  • Creation of silent installations using custom SQL scripting software packages for deployment.  PowerShell scripting for Solar Winds monitoring, exchange and general administration.  • Creation of Systems and environment documentation and diagraming.  • On call pager duty 24 x 7 worldwide offices.  • Lead technical support agent overseeing all standards and processes.  • Managed Assets management and Mobile Data card databases.  • Windows shell scripting using, batch, WSH, VBS.  • Remote application, package and system deployment. Senior Systems Administrator/Telecommunications Installer- Administrator Bay Federal Credit Union August 2001 to October 2004 • Management of overall network and computer systems. Roles included; primary support corporate and network infrastructure in a mixed Unix/Windows 2000/2003 server environment with 100/1000 switched multiple vlan networks with 8 branch offices on PTP.  • Responsible for seven Cisco 2600 routers a Cisco 3660 router, Cisco 1700 and an Extreme Networks Alpine router.  • 5 years experience with all telecom systems installation. 3 years VoIP administration installation, T1/PRI administration.  • Managed and executed migration of telecommunications systems from digital to multi-site voice over IP system.  • Migrated Pix FW to Fortinet redundant firewall with anti-virus and IDS. Netscreen IPSEC VPN, to Neoteris SSL VPN.  • Responsible for AIX 4.12 Banking Host systems maintenance, performance troubleshooting, EOM close, scripting, cron scheduling.  • Implemented Script Logic 5 logon scripting software running Kixstart agents. Custom scripting for server automation and PC custom.  • Implementation and administration MX Extreme Borderware learning mail firewall.    SYSTEMS PROFICIENCY  • A self-motivated IT professional with 20 years of Systems and Network Administration Experience  • SAN experience. DELL EMC Clarion, Unity and Compellent, Network Appliance, Nexsan, Hitachi, and Fusion IO.  • Working knowledge of gigabit fiber backbone switching, VLAN's, and IP routing.  • Hardware/software RAID, Shelf installation, HBA, WWN, WWPN, WWNN, Multipath, Dell / EMC, Ne  • 10+ years of experience with Network Appliance Data Filers and Storage Arrays with Snap Mirror redundancy, design for migration, installation, and management.  • VMware vSphere 5.x installation, upgrade, and administration VM deployment, host patching cluster management.  • VMware Horizon 6.x installation, administration and deployment.  • Citrix 7 XenApp, XenDesktop, Published storefront .using NetScaler.  • 15 + years of Data Center Management installing network gear, console servers and power distribution.  • Offsite Data Center & Colocation Management Sungard and Rackspace.  • Disaster Recovery planning and implementation performing offsite DR recovery processes.  • EMC Avamar, Data Domain, EVault i365, Veeam, Netapp, Snapmirror, Snapvault, Snapdrive, Veritas backup suite, Arcserve, NetVault & Backbone.  Power Shell, Batch/Command scripting.  • 15 years server and network security implementation auditing and remediation, 3rd party auditing, Secure Works, SAIC.  • Windows 2012, 2008, 2003, Windows 7-10, Centos and Redhat.  • Exchange 2016, 2013, 2007, 2003& Office365 Setup and operation, migration, environment troubleshooting implementation and management and email security.  • Windows Active Directory DNS and domain architecture. Experience fixing broken AD & DNS environments.  • Telecom installer and system troubleshooting, Avaya, ShoreTel, Cisco, Siemens, Comdial, Lucent, Hitachi.  • System Center Configuration Manager 2012 Setup and Administration, application deployments and server updates.  • Network Monitoring Systems Solar Winds Orion, IPAM, What's up Gold 16 configuring alert monitors, setup and administration.  • Web traffic analysis and diagnostics, using utilities such as Wireshark, Fiddler and Sawmill.  • Barracuda Web Filter and Mail Firewall implementation and management. Postini suite.  • Enterprise PKI, DNS, DHCP, IIS, IAS, Rodc, LCS, SSCM, NLB, MFG & Proxy server.  • Cisco Nexus NS-OX and CAT IOS networking routers and switches and some Fiber Channel.  • 10+ years of experience with Network Appliance Data Filers and Storage Arrays with Snap Mirror redundancy, design for migration, installation, and management.  • Terminal Server OS and application installation and configuration.  • Extensive Knowledge with 15 years of experience in installation scripting, package creation and deployment.  • Microsoft Lync installation and administration.  • VPN firewall installation and administration, Cisco ASA, Netscreen.  • PPP, IPsec, SSL, PPTP, and L2TP IP encryption packages.  • Telephone systems switch installation, troubleshooting and administration, IDF, MDF, MPOE.  • Extensive knowledge of Dell PowerEdge server and PowerVault platform and hardware.  • Extensive knowledge of all X86 hardware, Disk imaging and cloning, ghost, Acronis.  • Installation, upgrading, repair, and troubleshooting of computer hardware.  • Remote application deployment and system configuration using a variety of tools.  • Video conferencing / AV administration.  • Avaya IPBX, Shoreline IPBX, Lucent Systems, Siemens Rolm and Comdial Switch installation and administration.  • T 1.5 Data /Voice Circuit Provisioning and installation.  • Shoretel VoIP installation and administration. Education B.S. in Business Administration California State University - Chico, CA Skills AWS Additional Information Talented and accomplished Information Technology and Security professional with 20 years of experience as a Systems Administrator supporting corporate and production environments. Diverse and wide-ranging background in Systems and Network Engineering, System and Network Security, Design, Support, and Implementation. Proven ability to manage large-scale networks and physical infrastructures. Able to liaison between technical and non-technical persons. Adept at determining task requirements, troubleshooting, scheduling and technology planning.