Level 3 UNIX / Linux Engineer Level 3 UNIX / Linux Engineer Level 3 UNIX / Linux Engineer Seeking a technical position to solve critical business/customer problems using technology and applying consistent methodologies while remaining customer focused; utilizing my experience, repertoire, technical, and analytical skills. Also ensuring that best practices are used for business continuity. Work Experience Level 3 UNIX / Linux Engineer The Medical College of Wisconsin February 2018 to August 2019 • Responsible for large systems, i.e. student information systems as well as the ERP system.  • On-call 24/7 to respond to any potential issues that could impact internal customers.  • Built and configured Linux machines per developer / DBA specifications.  • Assisted developers with various issues on Oracle Solaris 11.3 and Oracle Linux 7 machines. This included problem solving environment variable issues, trouble shooting scripts., helping the developers with certain syntax.  • Performed extensive performance analysis on all systems using command line tools in addition to Cacti.  • Wrote bash scripts to perform certain automation tasks.  • Performed monthly patching on all Linux 6 and 7 machines.  • Performed quarterly patches on the Solaris machines with all LDOMS and zones respectively using Ansible with 4 playbooks.  • Updated documentation and was a mentor for a level 1 engineer.  • Configured system for an Oracle database to be installed.  • Built a graphical monitor system called cacti that would graph the performance metrics of each server.  • Reconfigured Solaris LDOMS to fix non contagious memory issues.  • Assisted CITRIC (Center for International Blood Research) with the migration from an old Sun server to a modern X86 server. They required x11 forwarding desktop environment, so I used Xfce and customized it to their needs. I also spent many hours training them on the system.  • Installed and configured SAS. Linux Engineer Logistics Health Incorporated September 2017 to December 2017 • Assisted in the devops design of an entire veteran assistance program.  * Assisted with the build out of the devops pipeline using tools such as Jenkins, Chef, GitLab, and Artofactory.  * Also assisted with remediating compliance issues with OSCAP and Tenable (Nessus).  * Administered 40+ Redhat Enterprise Linux 7.4 machines.  * Also, assisted with some Vmware administration / problem solving.  * Wrote bash scripts to assist with automation. Systems Engineer Unitrends Software - Columbia, SC August 2015 to June 2017 * Assisted customers with problem solving Unitrends Enterprise backup solutions on a diverse array of complex customer environments using phone, Webex, and SSH support tunnels.  * Worked in a multi-team setting and collaborate ideas between other members of the team(s) but also remain very customer facing.  * Backup system is designed with CentOS 5 or CentOS 6 Linux with PostGreSQL 8 or 9 respectively on server hardware and/or virtual environment backup system deployable via a virtual template.  * Assisted in building and used ELK stack to collect and analyze logs for proactive problem solving and trending.  * Very fast paced and dynamic setting with a customer satisfaction focus by utilizing metrics.  * Top performer among the support floor with resolve metrics, TTR (time to resolve), and customer satisfaction.  * Assisted customers with problem solving mission critical cloud deployments (AWS, EC2, Azure) System Administrator Peak Hosting - Portland, OR July 2014 to June 2015 * Escalated client issues when necessary.  * Responsible for 24/7 client support issues.  * Built server systems over the network using PXE boot pre-seed/answer files depending on Linux version.  * Wrote BASH script for PXE booting and tmux.  * Also, configured Linux/Windows systems for client and assisted with environmental issues.  * Updated VLAN on Cisco/Brocade network infrastructure devices. UNIX/Linux Systems Administrator Fiserv - Brookfield, WI August 2007 to March 2014 * Built/administered/problem solved Solaris SPARC and Linux systems remotely for large banks.  * Architected system plan for UNIX (Sun SPARC Solaris) to Linux (Redhat Enterprise Linux) migration for large data warehousing product used by large to mid-sized banks.  * Handled day-to-day tasks and requests from DBAs as well as many client facing interactions.  * Architected plan (digital encryption envelope) and documentation for arriving FTP file encryption process(es). This system was written in BASH.  • Lead technical mentor and trained co-worker(s) in various technical topics related to UNIX and Linux administration, scripting, and performance metric analysis.  • Performance analysis with VMWare infrastructure client (V-Center / VSphere) performance tools and external Cacti graphing performance tools as well as system level kernel analysis (dtrace, kdump).  • Collaborated with vendor kernel engineers to further analyze and resolve system performance issues and any other issues with the Linux OS, database, and/or application.  • Compiled data for application / server performance load balancing as well as projecting disk usage / performance trends and/or trending histories in order to conclusively define RCA. C Software Engineer Red Prairie Corporation - Brookfield, WI April 2007 to July 2007 • Implemented functional program module using C Tree abstractions and PL*SQL embedded transactional data query language.  • Resolved various bug fixes. UNIX/Linux Systems Administrator JCPenney Logistics Corporation - Wauwatosa, WI September 2004 to April 2007 • Team lead when management was absent and handled all production warehouse inventory management servers and day-to-day tasks.  • Architected complete warehouse enterprise audit system using Visual Basic.NET and SQL Server. Composed all related documentation and consulted with upper management for extensive application training and support.  • Also supported 1500 desktop PCs in the warehouse.  • Due to this software, I saved the company a lot of money due to mitigating the "cheating" that was happening on the production lines. Education software engineering Milwaukee Area Technical College May 2003 to May 2005 Skills Red Hat, Solaris, Redhat, System Administrator, SMTP