Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Systems</span> Engineer Systems Engineer - CHAMPION HOME BUILDERS Redford, MI Systems Administrator with 12 years' experience implementing Information Technology solutions for mid-size companies in the Manufacturing sector. Managed IT infrastructure and software for 74 remote sites including upgrading virtualization technologies and implementing a cloud-based backup and disaster recovery solution.    Core Competencies include VMware Technologies, System Administration, IT Infrastructure and Design, Deployment and Migrations, Network Administration, Technical Support, Customer Service, Project Management, Networking, VoIP administration, Cisco iOS, Data Backup and Disaster recovery, Hardware Diagnostics. Work Experience Systems Engineer CHAMPION HOME BUILDERS - Troy, MI July 2016 to Present Troy MI JULY/2016 to present    Champion Home Builders has served as a leader in the manufactured housing industry and one of the largest modular homebuilders in North America.    Systems Engineer  • Led the effort to integrate a newly acquired company of 300+ employees into the Champion homes network and server infrastructure.  • Instrumental in cutting cost and improved efficiency of the company network by Migrating 74 sites across the US and Canada from CenturyLink MPLS to AT&T MPLS including maintaining coexistence during the transition.  • Increased security of core applications by implementing 2factor authentication and Single Sign On.  • Upgraded 38 remote plants ESXI Host and Windows EOL servers without effecting production.  • Install, configure and support all VMware Esxi infrastructure including Data center and plant file  servers.  • Slashed VoIP cost 20% by negotiating pricing and fees, while ensuring the continuation and enhancements of services.  • Strong Windows infrastructure knowledge (Active Directory, PowerShell GPO, DHCP, DNS)  • Administer and manage telecom/VoIP phone systems.  • Coordinate and manage with third party vendors to support IT services.  • Traveled to different locations across the US and upgraded network infrastructure including MDF and IDF's  • Evaluate new technologies/software and making appropriate recommendations. System Administrator TAPCO INTERNATIONAL - Wixom, MI July 2012 to 2016 Wixom, MI JULY/2012 to 2016  Tapco is a leading supplier of construction materials and building products that leverages its robust distribution network across North America to deliver quality products and customer service.    System Administrator  • Performed advanced troubleshooting and resolution of desktop, server, and application issues.  • Manage VMware esxi, Hyper-V and Citrix environments.  • HP Blade Server Administration.  • Cisco Switch and Router configuration.  • Administered Avaya PBX using Avaya Site Administration.  • Provided technical support for IT infrastructure supporting employees throughout the U.S. and overseas.  • Maintain company backups using Microsoft Data Protection Manager and Symantec Backup Exec.  • Manage Microsoft Active Directory, DNS and DHCP. Patient Access Representative ST. MARY MERCY HOSPITAL - Livonia, MI June 2009 to July 2012 Livonia, MI JUNE/2009 to JULY/2012  St. Mary Mercy Livonia is a full service 304-bed acute care hospital that provides comprehensive care, including a 24-hour emergency department.    Patient Access Representative  • Responsible for the complete and accurate collection of patient demographic and financial information  • Collaborated with Doctors, nurses and other medical staff in a hectic emergency department to provide fast care for patients.  • Provide information to patients concerning hospital policies and regulatory requirements utilizing effective interpersonal and guest-relations skills.  • Determine preliminary patient or insurance payment obligation.  • Received "The Love Award " for September 2011 from the Director of Patient Access and Patient Financial Services of St Mary Mercy Hospital for Exception patient care and customer service while living the values of the hospital. Lead Computer Technician Circuit City Inc - Westland, MI February 2007 to June 2009 Lead Computer Technician  • Assisted customers with both in store and on-site computer setup and software training.  • Repaired, serviced, and replaced parts, boards, and equipment for Dell, Compaq, Toshiba, and Hewlett Packard computers.  • Actively involved in all business operations; managed day-to-day activities of up to seven service/support employees.  • Performed telephone and on-site troubleshooting for clients as field technician.  • Diagnosed and repaired computers to component and software level, establishing alternative repair procedures to meet customer needs.  • Created and implemented new inventory system for hardware and software to help track accountability, repairs and value of equipment. Education A.A.S in Electronic Engineering ITT Technical institute - Canton, MI 2006 Skills Active Directory, DNS, Vmware, System Administrator, System Admin