PACS Administrator II PACS <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II PACS Administrator Portland, OR Work Experience PACS Administrator II Kaiser Permanente - Portland, OR June 2013 to May 2018 - Radiology PACS Support  ? Mckesson PACS System - Back End and Front End Support  - Dental PACS Support  ? Medicor MiPacs System - Back End and Front End Support  - Eye Care PACS Support  - WSUS Maintenance  - Mamm CAD support and maintenance  ? Hologic Systems  - Windows Server Support  - Radiologist and Technician in person Onsite Support  - Supported Kaiser NW Region at all sites in-person or virtually with all issues related to imaging information technology. Portland, Salem, Vancouver, Eugene, Clackamas, Long View, Beaverton Application Analyst II Trinity Health - Minot, ND July 2011 to June 2012 - PACS/RIS backend support  - CPDI/Scanning configuration and support  - Clinical Reporting monitoring and support  - BMDI configuration and support Systems Manager Epic Imaging - West, Inc - Beaverton, OR June 2010 to November 2010 - Handle anything related to IT throughout the center.  - Supported 60+ users with 16 servers and 50+ PC's in the center.  - Administer GE PACS and RIS systems along with dictation system (MedQ with Dragon), and Merge CADstream system.  - Administer all non-healthcare related systems (Exchange server, fax server, Active Directory, Vipre Enterprise Anti-virus, Backup Exec 2010, WSUS).  - Administer and support Mitel Phone system switch, server, and phones.  - Support 10 makes/models of Konica Minolta printers.  - Administer and support Sonic Wall NSA 350 Firewall and handle all Point to Point VPN and SSL VPN configurations along with Internet Filtering and traffic monitoring.  - Train new employees on company systems & software (PACS, RIS, Outlook, anything else related to their position).  - Work with vendors and 3rd parties in troubleshooting and resolving issues on our hardware and vendor provided hardware.  - Support Radiologists on Epic provided equipment when working remotely.  - Complete VPN configurations with local hospitals and clinics to allow DICOM exchange of studies.  - Planned, developed, and implemented security badge access system and ID badges for the clinic employees.  - Coordinated, configured, and implemented free Wi-Fi access for patients waiting for an appointment.  - Administer Center security system server and devices.  - Create and maintain documentation related to IT for all of Epic West.  - Analyze, purchase, and implement all equipment, devices, and hardware for Epic West.  - Perform regular maintenance on all Epic West hardware and equipment.  -Handle all after hours/on-call issues. Systems Analyst EPIC Imaging - Beaverton, OR May 2008 to June 2010 Oregon  - Handle anything related to IT throughout the center.  - Supported 60+ users with 16 servers and 50+ PC's in the center.  - Administer GE PACS and RIS systems along with dictation system (MedQ with Dragon), and Merge CADstream system.  - Administer all non-healthcare related systems (Exchange server, fax server, Active Directory, Vipre Enterprise Anti-virus, Backup Exec 2010, WSUS).  - Administer and support Mitel Phone system switch, server, and phones.  - Support 10 makes/models of Konica Minolta printers.  - Administer and support Sonic Wall NSA 350 Firewall and handle all Point to Point VPN and SSL VPN configurations along with Internet Filtering and traffic monitoring.  - Train new employees on company systems & software (PACS, RIS, Outlook, anything else related to their position).  - Work with vendors and 3rd parties in troubleshooting and resolving issues on our hardware and vendor provided hardware.  - Support Radiologists on Epic provided equipment when working remotely.  - Complete VPN configurations with local hospitals and clinics to allow DICOM exchange of studies.  - Planned, developed, and implemented security badge access system and ID badges for the clinic employees.  - Coordinated, configured, and implemented free Wi-Fi access for patients waiting for an appointment.  - Administer Center security system server and devices.  - Create and maintain documentation related to IT for all of Epic West.  - Analyze, purchase, and implement all equipment, devices, and hardware for Epic West.  - Perform regular maintenance on all Epic West hardware and equipment.  -Handle all after hours/on-call issues. Lead Service Desk Technician / Systems Analyst Convergence Networks, Inc - Milwaukie, OR 2005 to 2008 - Help Desk Support for wide range of clients and platforms.  - Setup new users at various clients within Active Directory and Exchange email accounts as well as new user profiles on local workstations.  - Created documentation for peers and end users regarding how the tech resolves specific issues and how the end user can resolve some specific issues on their own.  - Developed and implemented helpdesk solution for troubleshooting end user issues. Application Deployment Specialist MeritCare Health Systems - Fargo, ND 2004 to 2005 - Tested and certified networked based software and hardware applications in lab environment prior to deployment.  - Created and maintained corporate PC image for XP, TabletPC, and W2K platforms.  - Provided detailed documentation pertaining to Application installation & Object creation procedures and system diagrams.  - Developed Wireless Client configuration using the Aegis Client from MeetingHouse Data Communications. Acquired licenses & rolled out client to all wireless devices. Education Bachelor of Science in Management Information Systems Minot State University - Minot, ND May 2003 Additional Information • Excellent written and oral communication skills  • Strong leadership skills as well as team participant  • Good interpersonal skills  • Able to manage and prioritize many objectives at once  • Outstanding customer relation skills  • Adaptable to change