Network & Systems Administrator Network &amp; <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network & Systems Administrator West Hollywood, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network & Systems Administrator Self Own Business - Los Angeles, CA June 2016 to Present IT consultant for Los Angeles-based businesses, providing proactive IT strategy, systems design, and ongoing support. Network & Systems Administrator Careers In Nonprofits - Chicago, IL August 2006 to March 2016 Initial and sole IT consultant for Chicago/Washington D.C.-based staffing company, providing proactive IT strategy, systems design, and ongoing support.    ? Initial planning, development, recommendations, purchasing, and setup of network/server/computer systems from Careers In NonProfits opening, along with remote and on-site support of all networks, systems, and users. Senior Systems Engineer/Sales Engineer Marathon Consulting - Brooklyn, NY February 2002 to March 2016 First employee and later partner of NYC-based IT company servicing small businesses that grew from 3 to 40+ in staff, and expanded from a New York client base to a global company providing proactive IT strategy, systems design, and ongoing support to streamline business operations, increase productivity, and boost profitability.    ? Management of projects from simple to extremely complex for Marathon clients  across a wide range of industries, both on-site and remotely.  ? Supported sales team, prospects, and current clients with technical consultation as the company’s first sales engineer. Network & Systems Administrator Conwest Resources - San Francisco, CA June 2001 to December 2002 Setup, configured, and supported users with proprietary CRM & inventory application  based on a MS Access front-end and SQL backend database.    ? Troubleshot and resolved departmental requests for help and maintained office  systems.  ? Provided regular written updates to management on the status and performance of projects and internal systems. Corporate Systems Administrator iHarvest Corporation - Redwood Shores, CA July 2000 to December 2000 Implemented and administered MS Exchange Server, including user training for moderated discussion folders, address books, out-of-assistant, etc.    ? Designed, implemented, and managed company intranet.  ? Supported End-users desktops including scheduled maintenance, upgrades, & virus  protection. Computer Support Specialist/Network Admin Powis Parker, Inc - Berkeley, CA May 1997 to June 2000 Supported 80+ users as sole admin in a client/server environment, including  end-user support & hardware/software, desktop, and server maintenance and upgrades.    ? Converted Novell 3.12 network with Win 3.1/DOS workstations to a complete Novell  4.11 (intraNetWare)/NT Server 4 and Win9.x/NT desktop environment.  ? Designed and implemented company-wide email routing server and software  solution, including technical training of all company users.  ? Managed independent schedules of contractors/consultants and prioritized their  assignments for company-wide projects.  ? Created and implemented a complete backup solution (Veritas' Backup Exec), for a mixed NT/Novell environment. Education Associate Skills HTML, JAVASCRIPT, SCRIPTING, HYPER-V, UNIX, VERITAS BACKUP EXEC, BACKUP EXEC, ODBC, SAAS, DHCP, TCP/IP, VMWARE, NETWORKING, DISASTER RECOVERY, VERITAS, LINUX, ARCSERVE, MACOS, Active Directory, Customer Service, Desktop Support, Help Desk, Helpdesk Support, Service Desk, Tech Support, Comptia, MAC, Microsoft Office, Sales, Security, Technical Support, Windows, Windows 7, access Additional Information Skills 365, Hyper-V, VMWare, Google G-suite (Gmail, Docs, Drive, and Calendar),  various Backup Software/Services (e.g. Veritas Backup Exec, CAI ARCserve, Intronis,  Windows Server Backup, etc.), Disaster Recovery, Managed Services, Saas, etc;  Operating Systems: All MS Windows OS's (Server and Desktop), MacOS, Linux, UNIX;    Scripting/Networking: PowerShell, DOS, HTML, JavaScript, ODBC, DHCP, TCP/IP, etc;