Office 365 Administrator Office 365 <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Office 365 Administrator - VF Corporation/Kontoor Brands Clemmons, NC Information Technology Professional with 20 years of Information Systems experience; successfully implementing software and hardware solutions in a financial, insurance corporate environment, along with small business consultation. Reliable and detail-oriented, technical professional who communicates well and delivers results. Skilled at learning new applications quickly, complex problem solving, and analytical troubleshooting. Currently pursuing AWS Solutions Architect Associate/Cisco DCICT certifications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Office 365 Administrator VF Corporation/Kontoor Brands - Greensboro, NC January 2019 to Present I have been part of a small team working together to separate VF and the Jeanswear division into two different companies. Kontoor Brands is the new company and as of May 23, 2019 Kontoor Brands is live and publicly traded.  I held the role as Office 365 admin as a contractor for VF and worked with the Kontoor Brands company. I helped ensure that the user experience was a great experience by creating internal user documentation, end user testing pre and post migration.  As of July 1, 2019 Kontoor Brands brought me on fulltime.    • Office 365    • Azure AD    • Monitor systems.    • Provisioned users/Rolled back users/Migrated users    • Setup distribution lists, security groups, Office 365 groups    • Configured Skype devices for conference rooms and set up for Skype/Teams meetings    • Built Site Collections/Subsites for end users    • Used Sharegate to migrate VF sites over to KB.    • Built a library of PowerShell scripts to help administer the O365 environment. Saas Engineer SilkRoad Technologies - Winston-Salem, NC May 2016 to January 2019 • Manage F5 Load Balancers.  • Create CSRs, and import SSL certs for customer's sites using OpenSSL.  • Build file server/SQL server clusters, and keep systems HA.  • Manage Customer facing Production Systems.  • Monitor systems through the use of PRTG and Pingdom tools.  • Work alongside the DevOps team troubleshooting IIS, sites, and Azure issues.  • Handle and prioritize tickets in Jira/Confluence.  • Perform System patching via BatchPatch and WSUS.  • Manage Sophos AV for all servers.  • Manage and maintain four different environments of which two are customer facing.  • Build VMs using Hyper-V; CSV creations, VLANs.  • Manage a warm site in Kannapolis.  • Perform projects such as upgrading all domain controllers to 2016.  • Learn and manage in-house applications and provide server-side support. Office 365 Engineer/ Systems Administrator Tek Systems, Winston - Salem, NC 2015 to 2016 • Perform various mail migrations for customers including cutover and 2010, 2013 hybrid.    • Utilized Microsoft batch jobs to perform cutover and hybrid migrations.    • Utilized third party tools to perform cutover migrations.    • Performed tenant to tenant migrations due to company acquisitions.    • Performed migrations from other Exchange hosting plans to Office 365.    • Lead on some scoping calls, and worked with Sales team on projects.    • Provided project planning and lead on assessments with customers.    • Performed other IT duties such as helpdesk tickets, onsite visits, and other projects not Office 365 related. Onboarding Engineer Microsoft - Charlotte, NC 2015 to 2015 • Picked up requests for assistance with Office 365 subscriptions with a FreeLancer pilot group. This included 1 to 30 seat subscriptions. Performed cutover migrations and provided guidance.  • Helped the Concierge group evolve from the Freelancer pilot group.  • Member of the Onboarding Center and worked with Onboarding Managers, Team Leads and fellow engineers to set standards and methods for onboarding clients with 150 seats and greater.  • Performed the benefits of onboarding for clients. (Initiate, Assessment, Remediation, Deployment/ Enablement) Client Escalation Engineer Healthcare Team - Salem, NC 2013 to 2015 • Respond to service requests escalated from Client Service Representatives and Support Engineering.  • Understand customer's systems, network environment, while analyzing problems, identifying defects, and recommending solutions during data gathering.  • Team Lead of white label services with Novant and EPIC Community Connect.    • Provide training and mentoring to Client Service Representatives and Support Engineering.    • Provide ticket ownership from the point of escalation through resolution, which may include additional communication to the user, a supervisor, or other support areas within the team including our internal infrastructure team.  • Collaborate with the Infrastructure Team to communicate common pain point and desired enhancements to maintain, improve, and scale the delivery of services.  • Prepare support documentation, webinars, technical work flows, and processes that will improve the efficiency of Support Engineers.  • Document all case information and updates as information becomes available.    • Identify and document troubleshooting techniques/steps.    • Always provide customers with prompt, accurate, and courteous service.    • Worked late shift and/or on-call rotation as required.    • Assist other team members with special projects, as well as being the lead point on projects. Always look for ways to be proactive and not reactive in order to eliminate future downtime for the customer or team. Systems Administrator Personal Communication Systems, Winston - Salem, NC 2010 to 2013 • Maintain and manage Active Directory domains and user accounts. Approximately 75 users, and 70 servers.  • Managed 16TB Dell Equalogic SAN and Cluster Shared Volumes on HyperV servers.    • Monitor and maintain Windows systems backups, and disaster recovery using Symantec Backup Exec, and Iron Mountain. Approximately 3.5 TB of data regularly.  • Manage and maintain a Co-Location data center that holds over 76 critical business solution servers, phone systems, and SQL servers.  • Setup separate VLANs for various departments.    • Upgrade/Migration of 2003 DC to 2008 DC.    • Configured 2008 WDS, DC, DNS, SQL, Web, and DHCP servers for a second and third domain.    • Maintain PCI compliance by patching all servers via Microsoft WSUS, Manage Engine, and Lumension Patchlink.  • Maintain and troubleshoot GPO, Roaming profiles, and Offline files and folders.    • Configured and manage the QA test infrastructure.    • Configured and maintain Smarthost mail servers for critical business solutions.    • Install, configure, and maintain Hyper-V servers with SCVMM.    • Implement company production wireless using RADIUS; also implemented guest wireless using WPA2.  • Manage and maintain content filtering and VPN setup through SonicWall firewall.    • Performed a company move from Reynolda Rd to Winston Tower in downtown Winston Salem.    • Perform Helpdesk, Desktop, and Networking duties daily.    • Setup phones using Mitel 5300 admin station and punch down of a 66 Block.    • Used Manage Engine products: Desktop Central, Service Desk Plus, Ops Manager, AD Manager, AD Audit.  • Monitor Server log files daily.    • Maintain iPhone and Blackberry BES setups for end users.    • Monitor Active Directory weekly via Manage Engine AD Audit. Systems Administrator Bald Eagle Technologies - Winston-Salem, NC 2008 to 2010 • Provided Managed Services and Best Practices for contract companies.  • Migrated servers 2003 to Server 2008 systems.  • Managed 2003 and 2007 Exchange Servers; Provided an Exchange Hosting solution as well  • Maintained SPAM filters. (Symantec, Barracuda, MS Ninja, Postini)  • Configured and maintained GPO, Roaming profiles, and Offline files and folders.  • Created, maintained, and disabled new accounts for A.D., Exchange, and FTP accounts.  • Created and presented network assessments for potential customers.  • Worked with Sales and Business Developers to find solutions to customers needs.  • Provided phone support and support center duties for external and internal customers.  • Maintained Documentation and work cases through Microsoft CRM.  • Addressed PC, printer, and wireless issues for end users.  • Maintained Antivirus for companies' infrastructure. (Symantec 10.1/End Point, Trend Micro, AVG)  • Monitor backup, and DR Imaging systems. (Symantec Backup Exec 11d-12.5, NT Backup, BESR 7-8.5)  • Installed and configured MS-SCE2007, WSUS patch and inventory systems.  • iPhone and Blackberry BES setups for end users.  • Worked with Cisco Phone Systems, edited display info, dual line config for new and existing users.  • On-call pager rotation. Systems Administrator Republic Mortgage Insurance Company - Winston-Salem, NC 1999 to 2008 • Created/Managed user accounts, local and global groups, and Exchange accounts.    • Installed and configured Exchange 2003 Standard, and maintain Exchange 2003 Enterprise Edition.    • Performed back-ups on all data for the company using DAT, DLT, and LTO media.    • Backup HP N4000 production and HP 3000 QA environments.    • Record daily backup logs, antivirus updates, and weekly restore tests as Sarbanes-Oxley requires.    • Maintained the Disaster Recovery Information and keep the information up to date according to SarbOx.  • Scheduled automatic patch updates, and manually patch QA and Backup server systems through Patchlink.  • Created FTP, SFTP, and SMAIL accounts.    • Maintained Trend Micro Antivirus definitions for Domain Controllers, File Servers, and Clients.    • Supported users and release non-spam through Symantec Brightmail.    • Created, setup, and applied proper permissions to user accounts within our in-house proprietary software.  • Managed Regional satellite office servers through management console, RDP, Terminal Services and PC Anywhere.  • Assisted on-site HP Technician with various projects.    • Tasked with overseeing various projects as assigned by project manager.    • Acted as liaison to Project Managers, Development, Database and the Quality Assurance teams.    • Installed in-house deployments that consisted of EXE, MSI, and editing of IIS, and server registry settings.  • Administered Starteam (Borland) accounts, projects, and security of both. (Change Management)    • Provided a rotational 24 hour on-call service for critical systems, and kept servers on high availability.    Desktop Administration Senior Desktop Engineer Republic Mortgage Insurance Company - Winston-Salem, NC 1999 to 2008 • Acknowledged work orders assigned by the Technical Support Specialists.  • Upgraded PCs and laptops with appropriate hardware and software (RIS).  • Kept up-to-date with current technology that affects our company (printer drivers, virus updates, dial up drivers, etc).  • Maintained a library of images for all types of PC's within the company, including satellite offices by using Power Cast Drive Image/Ghost/Sysprep.  • Worked closely with Desktop manager and other managers on critical projects.  • Configured and managed RIS server for internal imaging.  • Responsible for Troubleshooting printer, computer, peripheral, and networking problems.  • Distributed a Universal Image CD to regional satellite offices to cut down on shipping.  • Scheduled vendors to work on warranty items.  • Created and maintained the internal Desktop web page.  • Traveled throughout the country to setup new satellite offices and assist current ones with major deployments and rollouts.  • Configured PDA's and laptops so they may be able to access our WLAN.  • Main lead on the roaming profile project for our 28 satellite offices and net centers.    Helpdesk Level I Support Technical Support Specialist Republic Mortgage Insurance Company - Winston-Salem, NC 1999 to 2008 • Responded to phone calls and emails from internal and external customers requesting assistance with hardware and software problems.  • Logged tickets in HEAT call logging database, and route them through the necessary departments for resolution.  • Involved with marketing the Helpdesk and designing the Helpdesk Intranet page.  • Involved with major proprietary software. Education Associate Degree in Computer Technology in Computer Technology ECPI College of Technology - Greensboro, NC 1997 to 1999 Massachusetts Institute of Technology Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching December 2017 to December 2020 CCNA Security December 2017 to December 2020 MCTS Security+ Server+ A+ Certified MCP