System Administrator <span class="hl">System</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator Hanover, PA Work Experience System Administrator VERIZON, Silver Springs MD October 2013 to June 2019 Maintain NMA databases, templates for entire Verizon footprint, adding users to NMA application, and taking call during off hours to troubleshoot database and application issues. Served as system  administrator for NMA. Work with engineering staff to fix design issues and records that need  correcting. Also recently started as entry level system administrator for Linux servers.  • Developed and modified database templates to reduce erroneous tickets in network monitoring system across Verizon footprint.  • Trained employees on database and applications.  • Acted as Technical support for network monitoring system and network configuration problems.  • Worked with technicians and staff to resolve database and configuration issues.  • Configured user accounts in NMA and Linux Servers  • Provisioned network elements for protection schemes, communicate in the network and to the monitoring system.  • Installed software patches for network vulnerability issues. Central Office Technician Verizon August 1998 to October 2013 Responsibilities include but not limited to troubleshooting, provisioning SONET and optical systems, having working knowledge of NMA, TEAMS, TIRKS, WFA, ELCOM, and serving to guide team members in  provisioning procedures.  • Solved NMA database issues.  • Worked as support for technicians resolving system issues.  • Skilled in Troubleshooting alarming issues. Systems Specialist TRANE - Timonium, MD September 1997 to August 1998 • Maintained and serviced various control systems  • Coordinated with contractors on new installation and turning up of those systems.  • Used Autocad to show layout, configuration and other details for installation Service Technician TELE-TECTOR - Columbia, MD 1996 to 1997 • Serviced and installed surveillance and security equipment.  • Installed access control systems including card access and magnetic lock door systems  • Ran coax cabling, wiring, and cat 5/6 cabling Education AA in equivalent Electronic Engineering Technology RETS Technical Training Center Skills System Admin, System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory, Linux, System Admin, System Administrator, Vmware Links http://linkedin.com/in/davidpattonjr Certifications/Licenses Driver's License