Business Relationship Manager Business Relationship Manager Business Relationship Manager Sheridan, IL Business professional with experience in  development and maintenance of  business processes, and design of new  business systems and solutions within the  business side of the research industry.  Recent experience includes participating  in Agile software development team as a  business analyst to design and implement  a 'Work Planning and Control' application  as well as supporting divisions as a  business relationship manager. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Business Relationship Manager FERMI NATIONAL ACCELERATOR LABORATORY January 2017 to July 2019 Created strategic partnership with ES&H senior management  resulting in 3 transformational projects to reduce manual  processes for Work Planning and Controls, Site Access and Badging, and consolidating several custom applications to cloud  services.  • Worked with Enterprise Architecture, Cyber Security, IT managers, Service Management, and business to create process and template  for software and hardware RFP's to ensure technical and business  requirements were captured. Business Analyst & SQA FERMI NATIONAL ACCELERATOR LABORATORY December 2012 to July 2019 Used SDLC and Agile requirements gathering techniques for small  and large projects.  • Completed agile project for ES&H Work Planning and Controls to automate collection and approval of over 25 forms saving 2 weeks  on the current process and creating capability to reduce safety  incidents related to lack of planning.  • Utilized ServiceNow demand, incident, request and change to coordinate oracle developers, database administrators, and server  teams to ensure support for their vast array of applications to ensure the laboratory operates safely.  • Core team member in the implementation of Workday, established training and business test cases for implementation  and future upgrades. Backup IT and business support resource for Workday tickets, coordinated documentation updates, system and  user acceptance testing.  • Created a process and template for establishing test cases and plans to ensure quality outcomes for major projects, regression  testing for enhancements and upgrades, and test lead for implementation. Systems Administrator FERMI NATIONAL ACCELERATOR LABORATORY January 2000 to December 2012 Oracle eBS systems administrator responsible for configuring user  access to the eBS modules.  • Created a comprehensive process for requesting and implementing the roles, configured modules as required by  business, and facilitated requirements gathering for configuration  changes associated with eBS, Kronos, and ES&H applications.  • Improved quality of service from 4 weeks to 2 days to complete  user role assignments and simple configuration changes.    CHERYL  MCKENNA  BUSINESS RELATIONSHIP  MANAGER / BUSINESS ANALYST Education CERTIFICATE IN RETAIL MANAGEMENT ROBERT MORRIS COLLEGE 1982 Skills Oracle eBS, Workday, Mapping, Sdlc, Kronos, Itil, Software implementation, Apex, Ms office, Administrative support, Correspondence, Data entry, Filing, Training, Laboratory, Buyer, Procurement, Inventory, Outlook Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/cheryl-mckenna Certifications/Licenses ITIL Foundations Present Assessments Management & Leadership Skills: Impact & Influence — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to adapt their leadership style to accomplish goals using rational or emotional appeal. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/o7qwwsh0mt-4aqvg Management & Leadership Skills: Planning & Execution — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to effectively plan and manage resources to accomplish organizational goals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/sfmgkf4rbl0vhofe CRM Skills with Salesforce — Familiar August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to demonstrate a knowledge of Salesforce objects, fields, and processes. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/10exv4xgel38cm5t Logic & Verbal Reasoning — Familiar August 2019 Understanding the meaning of text, and identifying the relationships among words or concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/80o8mqn-cg4erabd Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS & ABILITIES  Agile  Business Process Mapping  Environment, Safety and Health  ITIL  Kronos  Oracle APEX  Oracle eBS  MS Office  Requirements Solicitation  Miro Team Collaboration Tools  ServiceNow  Software Implementation and Training  Sunflower  SDLC  Workday  XMind  VITALS  T 630.272.8747  E cewmcken@gmail.com  L www.linkedin.com/in/cheryl-mckenna  2 | P a g e - CHERYL MCKENNA  EXPERIENCE (CONTINUED)  FERMILAB )  Program Administrator/Time & Material Construction Group (04/1992-12/1999)  • Created releases against existing contracts, received activities against releases, and complete closeouts of releases.  • Conduit for the construction coordinators to the T&M office.  • Administrative duties for department manager and subordinates of the Operations and Maintenance Group, ES&H  Team and the T&M (Time and Material) Group.    EG&G INERTECH - SUPER CONDUCTING SUPERCOLLIDER LABORATORY  Administrative Support 1990 - 1992  • Development and control of various documents, charters  • Coordinate and track the configurations of the magnets  • Maintain Procurement requests and inventory status to anticipate procurement needs    MARSHALL FIELDS, CHICAGO IL  1981-1996  Assistant Buyer  • Designed and procured private label men's sportswear  • Analysis and assignment of distribution to stores  • Authorization of payments on shipments  • Developed and executed merchandizing plans  • Developing styles for advertising  • Coordinated with vendors for defects and returns for credit  • Inter Store communication (23 stores) regarding actions to be implemented, business events etc.  • Coordinate seasonal vendor seminars  • Misc. Adm responsibilities (handling mail, initiating correspondence, filing, data entry, report preparation etc.)    Assistant Department Manager  • Executed merchandizing plans  • Provided the department manager with support  • Responsible for associate employees (22 employees)  • Staff scheduling