IT Consultant (Contract) IT Consultant (Contract) Experienced IT Systems Administrator - US Citizen, Clean Driving Record Spring, TX An enthusiastic, skilled, and reliable IT Professional seeking a position that reflects my  experience, skills, and personal attributes including dedication, meeting goals, creativity, and  the ability to follow through to resolution. Extremely self-motivated and organized, with strong  interpersonal skills, direct experience with troubleshooting complex hardware and software  issues. Comfortable working within complex and high-pressured environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Consultant (Contract) Business Solutions - Spring, TX May 2018 to Present Provide IT Consulting services for Small Area Businesses  ? Provide Remote Support & troubleshooting for Active Directory, MS Office Products, LAN/WAN, VOIP  ? Perform isolation, resolution, and follow-up for both hardware and software issues as well as performing general maintenance, troubleshooting, and repairs to computer systems, printer hardware and software and peripherals. Systems Administrator ( Contract ) HP/DXC Technology - Houston, TX January 2018 to April 2018 Support 500+ server build project on VMware platform.  ? Installed Windows operating system, running scripts as needed.  ? Windows OS imaging, configuration, and troubleshooting.  ? Built window server clusters. Technical Support Analyst ( Contract ) Visualutions Inc - Spring, TX November 2017 to January 2018 Provide Tier 2 support, maintenance and resolution of infrastructure problems via remote support and/or on-site support.  ? Troubleshoot TCP/IP, DHCP, WINS and DNS.  ? Monitor helpdesk for tickets assigned to the queue and process first-in first-out based on priority.  ? Install, test and configure workstations, servers, peripheral equipment, network equipment and software solutions.  ? Troubleshoot all hardware and software issues.  ? Manage Active Directory and Domain administration. Network Administrator II Planned Parenthood - Houston, TX July 2011 to November 2017 Directly responsible for ALL infrastructure services and network maintenance.  ? Responsible for Day to Day troubleshooting & Maintenance of Cisco LAN, WAN, Routers & Switches.  ? Manage daily Infrastructure Operations of entire IT department including: firewalls, anti-virus software, network permissions, VMware environment and problem resolution.  ? Plan, Implement & Manage Active Directory, Enterprise Systems, VOIP, DNS, group policies.  ? Installed hotfixes and patches on VM servers to eliminate vulnerabilities.  ? Responsible for the planning of infrastructure to support new applications and technologies.  ? Responsible for developing annual infrastructure budget for IT Infrastructure and Network Services.  ? Develop and establish policies and procedures to implement network and security related plans.  ? Responsible for recommending updates to security framework & security upgrades.  ? Installs, configures and maintains network hardware and software.  ? Monitors and reports system load, recommends operating efficiencies and capacity planning.  ? Assists in the design, development, implementation and maintenance of IT policies and procedures.  ? Monitors network activity for possible security breaches or intrusions.  ? Train / Mentor and Supervise various IT staff such as Network Administrator and Helpdesk Staff. Systems Support Analyst Kanaly Trust Company - Houston, TX November 2008 to July 2011 Provided day to day support for Active Directory, Windows Environment, LAN/WAN/DNS.  ? Primary contact for all user-related hardware and software incident management and resolution.  ? Directly responsible for infrastructure services including data backup and tape rotation.  ? Provide support MS Outlook, Exchange Enterprise Vault, email archiving and VMware environment.  ? Provide on call 24 x 7 critical support for company network and hardware.  ? Grant remote access as per Active Directory group membership for PC and user and troubleshoot. Systems Analyst - (Contract) Crescent IT Systems - Houston, TX July 2008 to October 2008 Managed and maintained Windows Servers, Pc's and laptops for top clients including Baylor College of Medicine; Provided network management and systems administration for multiple small-to-midsize businesses through onsite visits and remote administration tools; Diagnose and troubleshoot Internet connectivity, DNS, operating system, application and LAN connectivity issues.  ? Solved complex Microsoft Windows Active Directory environment issues and manage domains.  ? Provided user training, documentation and material as required.  ? Implemented SLA's to meet security and operation requirements. Network / System Administrator Latham International - Toronto, ON November 2004 to July 2008 Managed Server, desktop, laptop, printer, telephone & blackberry equipment support across 3 sites in North America.  ? Researched networking and application solutions for deployment within the organization.  ? Imaged and prepared PC's and laptops for distribution to end-users.  ? Applied security operating system patches & enhancements on Servers/PC's  ? Implemented and monitored Surfcontrol Internet policy.  ? Maintained and created user accounts, organizational units and group policies within Active Directory.  ? Maintained WAN and LAN availability resources in a multi-domain Microsoft Server 2003 Active Directory environment.  ? Compiled & disseminated Intranet based support documentation & graphics.  ? Recommended, evaluated and purchased IT assets, maintained inventory of assets.  ? Purchased software licensing and tracked licensing compliance.  ? Administered and maintained Microsoft Exchange Server and user accounts.  ? Performed tape backups and implemented disaster recovery plan.  ? Produced system/network documentation, SOP's and IT policies.  ? Maintained network security policy, addressed server security issues.  ? Supported & administered mobile computing environment and VPN services. Information Systems Support Analyst NDS Group PLC - London September 2001 to July 2004 Provided support to 1000 + users worldwide in a Windows Active Directory environment.  ? Resolved issues on Windows 95/98/ME/2000/XP, MS Office 2000/97, Outlook 2000/98.  ? Involved in company's migration from NT to W2K native mode.  ? Performed Daily Backups and Virus Scan updates.  ? Rebuilt network servers as and when required.  ? Break/fix experience of Dell, Compaq, IBM, Toshiba, desktops and laptops.  ? Troubleshoot TCP/IP, DHCP, WINS and DNS.  ? Built desktops and laptops using Symantec Ghost software.  ? Troubleshoot e-mail and disk encryption using PGP.  ? Maintained and created organizational units and Global Policy Objects (GPOs).  ? Managed directory space and created user accounts for use on FTP server.  ? Administered user's PC's across WAN using remote control software.  ? Worked on a project in France to integrate an external company's network into our Active Directory Forest (300+ users)  ? Configured and resolved queries for remote access via a VPN link.  ? Issued and revoked remote access and Web certificates using terminal services.  ? Configured and resolved problems for video conferencing equipment.  ? Provided 24 x 7 on call worldwide technical support. Education Associate Degree in Computer Science Uxbridge College - London Skills Account Management, Data Entry, MS Office, Powerpoint Awards SELECTED ACCOMPLISHMENTS • Project lead for upgrading VMware environment:  • Replacing aged ESX servers with new ESX servers while planning and implementing failover.   • Pointing VM farm to new Netapp filers for storage.  • Migrating all VM servers to new environment.  • Planning and implementing backup of VMDK files on SAN environment.  • Copying of backups to tape for offline storage.  • Designed a method for safely testing Microsoft Windows Updates prior to installation on:  • Desktops/Servers: process included cubicle design to enable Desktop/Application analysts and Network Administrator to test their applications on Desktops and Servers prior to deployment.  • Manage WAN and Individual LAN’s for Southeast Texas and Louisiana Offices, including planning and implementation of all network related procedures and policies.  • This included network and security design, configuration, routing and switching at new local health centers.  • Designed and implemented a way to safely download and virus check all files being introduced to our environment, including executable files.  • Recommended and assisted with the design and installation of a secondary Air Conditioning Unit in the Data Center room to avoid any downtime and damage to the organization's equipment if and when the main chillers are not functioning.  • Designed Cheat Sheet(s) to identify and recognize patterns causing latency at our remote Health Centers/Clinics.  • Revamped spam filter policies to enabling better trapping of compressed files.  • Implemented email quotas that greatly reduced network latency.  • Designed and implemented a hand over/check sheet for our Helpdesk Staff to utilize for building and swapping out computers; requiring end user sign off.  • Implemented USB port security, reducing risk of infected files being introduced to the network.  • Designed and implemented a Backup strategy for dialing 911 from all remote Health Centers.  • Implemented policy for not having users in the local Administrators group on their desktop.  • Redesigned scanning of Shavlik to out of production hours and automated as opposed to manual.  • Designed, implemented data backup strategy and oversaw daily, weekly, monthly backups. Certifications/Licenses MCSE Present MCSA Present Additional Information ? Seasoned IT Professional with over 10 years of cross disciplinary IT experience with a strong focus on Microsoft Enterprise Systems, Call Center Environments, Active Directory, Cisco Environments, VMware, Enterprise Cisco Network, Cisco Unified Communications Manager (call manager), Cisco Unity Connection (voicemail), Cisco Unified Contact Center Express & Mixed Mode Microsoft Windows 2008 / 2012 Active Directory environment.    Skills  Cisco ASA Firewall, Cisco Unified Communications Manager, Cisco Unity Connection, Cisco Unified Contact Center Express, Cisco Scripting, Cisco IronPort, Cisco Phones, Cisco Routers, Cisco Switches, Microsoft 2008/2012 Active Directory, Symantec Endpoint Antivirus, Microsoft Exchange / Outlook 2010 / 2016, Windows Server 2012 / 2016, Microsoft Office 2010 / 2016 / 365, VMware 5/6 X, Netapp Filers, 3Par, Informacast, Rightfax, Backup EXE 2016, Veeam Backup & Replication, Microsoft SharePoint 2007 & 2013, Websense Internet filter (Forcepoint), SolarWinds Network Monitoring, Lotus Notes 6X, EDMS; ArcServe network backup software, Sophos, McAfee, Trend Office, Norton Antivirus software, Symantec Ghost imaging software, Wake-on-LAN, DFS, eClinicalworks, Centricity, Hyper-V, ShoreTel