Systems Administrator II <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Skilled IT Professional Coconut Creek, FL Skilled IT Professional with over 20 years of experience supporting all Information Technology. Forward-thinking and resourceful professional with a diligent mindset and disciplined approach. Ready to apply my experience in Information Technology to a challenging new role. Work Experience Systems Administrator II Biotest Pharmaceuticals - Boca Raton, FL December 2008 to February 2019 • Responsible for daily IT operations for 26 locations including the Corporate Headquarters.  • Responsible for IT Projects implementation for all 26 locations. (Monthly Project deadlines)  • Responsible for IT Monthly Key Performance Indicator reports.  • Responsible for IT purchasing and negation.  • Responsible for creating and maintaining all images on multiple platforms. (Computers, Tablets and Handheld devices.)   • Responsible for maintaining as well as writing new IT Standard Operating Procedures. (CGMP as well and operational)  • Responsible for training new employees and ensuring they follow the CGMP IT procedures.  • Support server to maintain server up time.  • Support of all software and phone system. (Cellular, VOIP, traditional as well migration of one to another)  • Company wide software implementation training and support (Office 365, Help-desk software, third party software) Independent Contractor/Consultant Self-Exmployed - Coconut Creek, FL March 2008 to December 2008 • Migrated 250 computers from Group-Wise to Microsoft. Re-imaging all computers.  • User support while main System Administrator was away.  • Phone Support  • Individual Computer Support Systems Administrator II Hover Pumping Systems - Pompano Beach, FL June 2007 to March 2008 • Upgraded 5 Windows server 2003 with no widows updates to current.  • Configured proprietary pump programming for pumping systems.  • Support of all laptops and desktop at the office and field.  • Support and maintain all IT Security and Active directory. IT Projects Coordinator DR Horton Inc - Deerfield Beach, FL July 2004 to March 2007 • Administer local network inclusive of Server and AD management as well as information backup and storage.  • User help desk support giving excellent customer service to over 200 users throughout Broward, Dade and Palm Beach Counties.  • Set up and management of 20 Satellite locations using Cisco PIX 501 and fast access.  • Recommend and Manage projects to improve the way the company uses IT.  • Setup and Support users with Scheduling software On-Schedule.  • User Support on IBM AS400.  • User support on Lotus Notes.  • Contract Application Support.  • Set up of FTP Server and support of internal and external users.  • Recommend and order supplies for the network layout for our new corporate office.  • Plan and coordinate IT portion of main office move including upgrade from Intertell phone system to AVAYA Phone system as well as upgrade of the servers racks, ups and backup devices.  • Coordinate training on the AVAYA VOIP system.  • Thoroughly document work order system for all help desk issues and handle them in a priority fashion. IT Manager/Operations Manager American Intercontinental University - Weston, FL January 1999 to July 2004 • IT Responsibilities.  • Network supporting 1800 plus users.  • 11 windows 2000 servers on 2 domains.  • Network supporting workstations running Windows XP and 2000.  • Laptop/desktop hardware support given to 1500 plus users.  • Support Meridian Mail phone system and Cisco VOIP phone system.  • Migrated network from NT 4.0 to Windows 2000.  • Manage a team of help desk/Network employees and set weekly priorities.  • Distribute laptops to new students on a monthly basis (including imaging and complete laptop instruction).  • Perform a license audit of all software currently used by the school.  • Skilled in software troubleshooting NT 4.0, Windows 9x, Microsoft Office (97 and 2000), Office XP, 2000 server, Cisco router setup, dialup connections, VPN support, Terminal Sever connection, and Financial Aid Applications.  • Skilled at hardware troubleshooting Compaq desktop's, IBM Think Pad laptops, Lexmark printers, Tektronix printers, Compaq and Dell servers.  • Operations Responsibilities:.  • Organized a network move from one location to another (inclusive of all network Servers, all workstations and phones).  • Coordinated completion of a four story build- out within a 3 month deadline.  • Responsible for all building day to day operations including all vendor relations.  • Manage activities to achieve monthly performance targets.  • Responsible for IT and building operations yearly budgets.  • Responsible for building security including digital camera system, proximity card system, and key distribution.  • Manage a team of facility personnel. Education Bachelors in Information Technology American Intercontinental University - Plantation, FL Associates in Business Administration Broward Community College - Davie, FL Skills AVAYA (10+ years), DOCUMENTATION (10+ years), Active Directory (10+ years), DNS (10+ years), SCCM (10+ years), System Administrator (10+ years), Vmware (5 years), Cisco Certifications/Licenses MCSA Additional Information Skills  • Self-motivated  • Interpersonal and written communication  • Skilled in supporting and Maintaining a Microsoft Platform    • Skilled in Image Creation and support  • Skilled in Phone support (Avaya, Ring Central and AT&T Cloud phones)  • Skilled in documentation and reporting.