Consultant Consultant Consultant - Northern Trust Pittsfield, MA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Consultant Northern Trust - Chicago, IL February 2016 to Present Responsibilities include L3 escalation for Microsoft Lync 2013. Ensure optimal performance of Microsoft Lync chat environment for 23,000+ users in a two pool design. Maintain regular application and security patching as necessary. Test and maintain existing Lync  functionality during infrastructure and network upgrade changes as required. Escalation point of contact for support of all Skype Room  systems.    Selected Achievements:  • Worked on integrating platform with existing Exchange environment for external and mobility access with product known as  AGAT Skype Shield.  • Administer Mobile connectivity to Lync via Skype Shield  • Patch and reimage Skype Room systems Messaging Collaboration Lead SABIC - Pittsfield, MA May 2005 to February 2016 Ensure the optimal performance of all messaging and collaboration systems for the Americas region of business. Primary L3 point of escalation as well as responsible of maintenance and patching for messaging systems, mail security appliances, and all unified  communications software.  Responsible systems:    • Messaging systems: Google Apps for Enterprise, Microsoft Exchange 2013 ~ 13000 mailboxes  • Messaging appliances: McAfee (Ironmail)  • Secure gateways: Google Postini, Symantec Messagelabs  • Collaboration systems: Microsoft Lync 2013, 8000+ Enterprise Voice enabled user object pool  • Conferencing systems: Cisco Webex Eventcenter, Meeting Center, Intercall audio service  • Various integrated applications: Opentext Easylink eFax Services  Selected Achievements:    • Configure email security gateway to protect against SPAM virus and other various email attack methods and enforced  encryption of TLS domains. Configure DNS SPF records.  • Oversee API related synchronization scripts to Google Apps for Enterprise cloud including user account life cycle, AD group  synchronization, and AD object synchronization with custom designed Google API Twister.  • Administration of internal physical and virtual email appliances, e.g., McAfee (Ironmail) Email Gateways by Secure Computing.  • Administration of various mobility systems, e.g., Google Apps Connector for BlackBerry Enterprise Server (gBES), Blackberry  server farms in access of 1100+ users.  • Administer mobile Activesync devices connecting to SABIC Google Apps domain.  • Direct consult on implementation and migration of 13,000+ mailboxes from General Electric Exchange on-prem to cloud  Google Apps for Enterprise mail solution. Collaborated with Google trusted tester program for initial build of (gBES) Google  Apps Connector for BlackBerry Enterprise Server. Additionally collaborated with Google engineering team to resolve problems with implementation of initial product in SABIC production environment.  • Worked on project to migrate 13,000+ mailboxes to on-prem Exchange 2013 from Google Apps. Systems Administrator The Brien Center - Pittsfield, MA May 2003 to April 2005 Responsibilities included but were not limited to the following systems, services and processes: Server OS and hardware RS6000 AIX  Unix machine running on IBM JSB40, CMHC Health Systems 4.0, backup scheme and tape rotation for AIX UNIX and Red Hat Linux  Servers, Apache, Samba, mail system with Sendmail, Postfix, IMAP, POP. Managed intranet web site, servers physical security and operating environment, patched CMHC Health Systems, monitored systems for security, provided extra help desk support, rebuilt  donated computer systems, maintained encrypted IPSec tunnel for secure remote offices on WAN, troubleshoot network issues.    Selected Achievements:  • Developed new anti SPAM email filtering server with Spamassassin  • Built Redhat and Fedora Core 7.2, 8.0, and 9+ Linux servers  • Performed UNIX, CMHC, and network performance tuning  • Planned and instituted change in network internal IP scheme from public to NAT private addresses  • Constructed intranet site for document management and ordering  • Increased network bandwidth/speed by upgrading network design and equipment  • Instituted internal HIPAA regulations Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Rochester Institute of Technology 2002