Sr. Network Technician Sr. Network Technician Sr. Network Technician - Laboratory Corporation of America Bloomfield, NJ Two decades of experience in IT customer facing positions, focusing on training, problem solving, and process development. Detail oriented, highly organized and adept at relating information in an easily understood manner. Work Experience Sr. Network Technician Laboratory Corporation of America - Cranford, NJ January 2011 to Present • Supported clients (Doctor’s Offices) to ensure they receive the results to their   blood, culture, and biopsy tests.  • Traveled to Hospitals, Laboratories, Group Practices, Private Doctors Offices, and   Patient Service Centers to provide technical assistance for Labcorp and all of its   subsidiaries.   • Trained new users either individually or in a presentation format on how to use   various Labcorp Products   • Performed software installations and network configurations on end-users systems   for connecting to Labcorp systems.  • Supported PCs, Thin Clients, Laptops, Cellular Modems, Laser Jet Printers, Touch   Screen Monitors, and various peripherals for both external and internal clients. Technical Support Enzo Clinical Labs November 2009 to January 2011 • Remotely investigated and resolved customer’s hardware, software, and network   connectivity issues  • Ensured the proper functionality of Remote Printers  • Monitored Report Delivery Network  • Analyzed and Modified HL7 Data Technical Support Specialist Bowker - New Providnce, NJ August 2006 to October 2008 • Assisted customers in running various diagnostic tests for their network to   determine the exact cause.  • Dealt with and resolved Low Level EDI inquiries Installer Apple 2005 to 2005 • Assisted Customers in Deciding options for Hardware and Software upgrades via   scheduled counseling sessions  • Installed and Upgraded Hardware/Software in new and old machines  • Prepared Daily reports for items returned to the store to be sent to the central   office  • Setup and Up Kept Try before you Buy Machines and Window Display Systems Specialist Catcom Computers PC&MAC Hardware June 2002 to 2004 • Handled technical support phone calls across multiple platforms and operating systems.  • Performed on-site Hardware/Software/Network Troubleshooting and repair.  • Repaired faulty Ethernet cable heads and wall plates.  • Set-up wireless and wired networks.  • Rolled out software for use on small to medium sized networks.  • Supervised field teams of technicians. Technical Customer Service Specialist BarnesandNoble.com September 2000 to April 2002 • Served as initial point of contact for up to 100 customers worldwide per 8 hour shift   using various programs to either resolve or redirect issues or inquiries.  • Handled tier one technical support calls and guided customers through website.  • Escalated Technical issues to Supervisors to be passed to Network Operations   Center for further investigation.  • Processed orders and oversaw vendor relations for special projects.  • Trained new-hires as senior staff member.  • Handled Business to Business technical support issues for numerous corporate   clients  • Managed Excel Database and Mail Merge for nationwide customer Systems Administrator Clique-On Internet Cafe April 1999 to October 1999 • Worked on computers connected to a Medium Sized TCP/IP Network and on the   NT Servers.  • Liaison to user community.  • Managed a Medium Sized TCP/IP network with an NT Box host running DHCP  • Conducted Internet Training and provided support for user base.  • Performed Superdat upgrades on systems  • Responsible for hardware and software troubleshooting and repair  • Rolled out various software programs on the network  • Upkept laser printer set to be shared with the network Systems Technician Kids Computer Place - Montclair, NJ 1996 to 1997 • Worked on computer systems on a medium sized IPX network daily.  • Managed the rollout of Windows 95 and proprietary timing software on an medium   sized IPX network  • Maintained network providing hardware and software troubleshooting and repair  • Resident PC consultant and Software Salesperson.  • Hardware and software troubleshooting and repair on site and in the field  • Trained and supported entire customer base on various software programs and   platforms.  • Provided education to customers regarding the technical specifications of different   hardware components, their integration, risks, troubleshooting. Education High school or equivalent Skills Environments: Windows 9x, NT, XP, ME, 2000, Vista, Windows 3.11, DOS, Mac OS9 & 10.x, Productivity/Automation: MS Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, FrontPage, Outlook), MS Works, QuickBooks, Many Anti-Virus Programs, Visio, MS Project, All Browsers, Adobe Photoshop, Final Cut, Many other Audio/Video Applications Hardware: PC troubleshooting and setup, Network setup, Server setup (DHCP, File, Router) (10+ years)