Senior Systems Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Bremerton, WA • More than 15 years' successful experience in customer service and support with recognized strengths in account maintenance, problem-solving and trouble-shooting, staff support, and planning/implementing proactive procedures and systems to avoid problems in the first place.  • Possess solid computer skills. CompTIA A+ certified  • Excellent working knowledge of: Microsoft Office applications, GE iFix, Microsoft Server Operating Systems, Microsoft Active Directory, HP 3PAR,  VMware, VEEAM Backup software, Oracle Tape Backup systems, Barracuda Spam and Mail Archiving solutions, DNS and DHCP administration.  • Ability to train, motivate, and supervise technology employees.  • A team player, able to adapt to new situations rapidly  • Develop plan, conduct audits, and maintain/update accurate inventories.  • Provide training and insight to new employees on systems and procedures.    Synopsis of Achievements  • Developed multiple applications to minimize time spent on Data Analysis  • Worked with vendor to remediate vastly over-provisioned storage system that had caused catastrophic systems failures in VM environment  • Active part of the facility safety organization: monitoring and remediating safety issues  • Developed procedures and documentation for department personnel.  • Helped design new server room including hot isle, cold isle arrangement server layout. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator The Point Casino - Kingston, WA May 2017 to Present • Provide desktop support for 200+ users spread across multiple businesses owned by the tribe.  • Microsoft Active Directory administration including new account creation, account deactivation, organization of groups and privileges  • Setup and maintain Microsoft Hyper-V hosts and VMs on those hosts.  • Project management for IT projects including domain changes, network migration and Anti-Virus vendor change.   • Vendor interactions for equipment maintenance and purchase.  • Microsoft Exchange administration including new user setup, group creation, server setup  • Documentation of new procedures and clarification of existing documentation  • Interact with guest and other employees in a positive manner to foster a pleasant environment for the guests  • Assist with equipment choices for current needs  • Member of interview staff for new IT employee selection Technician Robert Half Technology - Ephrata, WA March 2017 to May 2017 • Home Depot – Technician  • Responsible for new system deployment, cable dressing, testing, and troubleshooting.  • Responsible for communication with management of site  • Responsible for arranging return shipping  • Lowes – Technician  • Provided on site verification of UPS status  • Desktop support for site systems, scanners, keypads, and printers Systems Administrator Grant County - Ephrata, WA July 2015 to October 2016 • Provide Tier 3 support for 650+ employees  • Microsoft Active Directory, DNS and DHCP administration  • Administer Microsoft Exchange 2013 for multiple e-mail domains.  • Build and administer VMware hosts and clusters in High Availability environment.  • Backup and restore of critical systems.   • LaserFiche administrator.  • Support for multiple Microsoft SQL instances.  • Evaluation of software for suitability to our unique needs.  • Interface with multiple vendors for support of critical applications.  • Web administration for 250 page county web site  • Training of junior techs on system use.  • Support and configure HP StoreServ 7700 for VMware Datastore Plant Technology Specialist J. R. Simplot Company - Moses Lake, WA June 1998 to June 2015 Plant Technology Specialist  • Work with over 300 employees to provide accessibility to plant network resources.   • Support Process Control Technicians in deploying new plant processing equipment.   • Quickly and effectively solve customer challenges.  • Virus remediation during Day-0 infection.  • Planned and implemented plant wide camera system for system monitoring.  • Redesign and rewiring of plant server room and racks to allow for expansion, proper cooling, and ease of maintenance.  • Developed and maintained plant web pages and SharePoint sites.  • Responsible for plant IT budget and purchasing. Evaluation of new products and technologies toward plant usefulness and deployment.  • Developing SQL queries to pull plant data into Microsoft applications.  • Member of Leadership Assessment Team, responsible for evaluating hourly employees for potential as salaried employees.  • Member of various Six Sigma teams evaluating plant processes toward enhancing plant efficiencies to reduce cost of operation.  • 15 years’ experience in supporting multiple plant SCADA systems with training in GE FAUNC iFix and iFix Historian systems for plant control and data retrieval.  • Provide onsite support for user accounts in Active Directory, including profile management, unlocking and group memberships  • Maintain server’s software updates for both applications and operating systems.  • Restoration of lost user files  • Maintenance of print servers and print queues for 35 networked printers and plotters Education IT Western Governors University - Salt Lake City, UT January 2017 to June 2020 Computer Sciences Big Bend Community College - Moses Lake, WA January 2017 BS Western Governor's University Electronics ITT Technical Institute - Portland, OR Computer Sciences Eastern Washington University - Cheney, WA Skills System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ March 2017 CompTIA Network+ April 2019 to May 2022 CompTIA Security+ May 2019 to May 2022