Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Systems</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Las Vegas, NV Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Nature's Lab / DrVita, Inc. - Las Vegas, NV May 2018 to Present • Currently a one-man-show in charge of all things Tech. Handling all purchasing, (scolding) vendor interactions, infrastructure improvements, adoption of best practices, rolling in new technologies, unjamming printers, changing batteries in mice, maintaining our virtualization stack, clawing back money that we're spending for no reason, and the five hundred other things that a SMB needs once you get rid of underperforming MSPs. Systems Administrator / Helpdesk Supervisor 2K Vegas / Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc - Las Vegas, NV April 2017 to May 2018 • Manage the efforts of a small but elite team of Helpdesk warriors.  • Responsible for the cleaning and feeding of the mission-critical VMWare cluster environment.  • Work extensively to get our backbone systems off of EOL equipment, and onto more current  hardware, or virtualization if appropriate.  • Documenting and becoming the SME for various critical systems within our local organization.  • Responsible for Active Directory and Exchange account creation and management. Systems Administrator / Virtualization Architect Ultimate Fighting Championship / WME-IMG - Las Vegas, NV May 2009 to November 2016 • Provided all tiers of support in its myriad forms for all of our servers, desktops, laptops, mobile devices, printers, e-mail, VOIP phones, and everything else people manage to bring to the office.  • Responsible for all Active Directory/Exchange account creation, security & group management, ADFS 2.0/SSO deployment & integration, and troubleshooting.  • Responsible for all hardware and software upgrades and deployments.  • Converted a haphazard collection of old VMWare ESX & Workstation virtual machine installations into a consolidated Hyper-V 2012 cluster with LiveMigration, High Availability, failover, and was solely responsible for its design, maintenance, and management.  • Implemented new technologies throughout the business, leveraging efficiencies and reducing costs wherever possible.  • On-the-road technical support for live events around the world, to include support for media, (video) production teams, and all the back-of-house functions associated with live sporting events. Senior Chauffeur On Demand Sedan and Limo - Las Vegas, NV February 2005 to December 2008 • While unrelated to my career in technology, my time at ODS greatly honed my people skills. I feel that improved interpersonal abilities can be an invaluable asset in any career, especially technology. Systems Administrator Wells Fargo Retirement Plan Services - Glendale, WI August 2000 to March 2003 • Provided maintenance, scheduled updates, log administration, alert management, and 24/7 on-call services for 50+ servers necessary for daily business running Windows NT4.0, Windows 2000 Server, Citrix, MSSQL, PervasiveSQL, and the Schwab Retirement Technologies suite of software.  • Provided primary PC support for 250 users within the WF-RPS location. This included repairs/replacements as well as training on various software packages, along with on-site administration of VPN services for 47 remote users and 3 remote processing locations.  • Provided primary administration, graphic design, and feature implementation for the Wells Fargo RPS website, visited by thousands of external customers weekly.  • Provided primary administration of daily, weekly, and monthly backup services using ArcServe 2000 including overnight management and recovery.  • Designed, implemented, and tested Disaster Recovery procedures for the WF-RPS website, related servers, backup servers, log administration servers, VPN capabilities, and mission-critical workstations. PC Repair Shop Chief United States Marine Corps - Okinawa, JP March 1996 to March 2000 • Managed the technical support efforts of 8 Marines and 3 Japanese civilian workers performing repairs on PCs, printers, monitors, networking equipment, and cryptographic equipment used on the base.  • Organized and coordinated a massive computer hardware and network upgrade on multiple USMC bases on Okinawa resulting in a Meritorious Unit Commendation.  • Provided Special Projects planning and implementation for various exercises and war games resulting in multiple Letters of Commendation from flag officers. Education Some college Skills Network Administration, Exchange, Vmware, Active Directory, Vendor Management, IT Management, Strategic Planning, Customer Service, VoIP, Hyper-V, Disaster Recovery, Cisco Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Service Country: United States Rank: Corporal March 1996 to March 2000 • 2818 MOS, finished as PC Repair Shop Chief for Camp Foster G6 EMU (Okinawa, Japan).    • All other PC shops on Okinawa answered to us.    • Held TS/SCI clearance at this time without issue. Commendations: • NAM, MUC x2, Letters of Commendation Certifications/Licenses NV DL 1702215577 March 2018 to November 2026