Salesforce Administrator / Developer Salesforce Administrator /<span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Administrator / Developer - Blueline Rental The Woodlands, TX ? Over 7 years of IT experience with 4 years of experience as Salesforce Administrator/ Developer and 3 years as a web developer.  ? Certified Salesforce.com Administrator (ADM 201) with proficiency in Salesforce CRM platform.  ? Experience in Administration, Configuration, and Implementation of Salesforce CRM and Salesforce applications.  ? Implemented Security and Sharing rules at object, field, and record level for different users at different levels of organization.  ? Good Knowledge in Salesforce Lightning. Expertise in performing Salesforce Administrative Tasks: Organization Setup, User Management, Activity Management, Customizing objects/fields/tabs, Users, Profiles, Permission Sets, Roles, Groups, Queues, Page Layouts, Record Types, Workflow/Validation rules, Approvals, and Process Builder.  ? Acquainted and well versed with CRM processes like Service cloud, Sales Cloud and Marketing Cloud.  ? Proficient in Data Migration from traditional applications to Salesforce using Apex Data Loader, Import Wizard.  ? Experience in deploying from sandbox to production using Chain sets.  ? Developed Apex Classes, Triggers, Visual force pages, REST API, Email-To-Case, Web-to- Lead, Email Template, Custom Settings, Static Resources, and SOQL and SOSL.  ? Customized and managed reports and dashboards.  ? Extensive experience working with DocuSign.  ? Excellent Working knowledge on web technologies like JavaScript, j Query, HTML5 and CSS.  ? Good knowledge on Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile(Jira) Methodologies.  ? Performed Salesforce testing.  ? Possess excellent time management and team skills with an intention to work hard to attain project deadlines under stressful environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Administrator / Developer Blueline Rental - The Woodlands, TX November 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Worked with Business & Technical team members in analyzing the project requirements.  ? Worked on the sales and service clouds environment.  ? Customizing tabs for different business user groups and centers and customizing different page layouts and assigned them for different profile users.  ? Created Reports and Dashboards, customized page layouts and record-types for Opportunity, Contacts, and Accounts to distinguish between different Processes.  ? Creating and managing custom objects and field mappings for migrating records into SFDC.  ? Created various HTML, Visualforce Email templates for Auto response to customers and outbound messages.  ? Developed Apex classes, Triggers, Time triggered tasks and Apex scheduler to implement business logic to the needs of the application.  ? Developed Workflow rules, Validation rules, Approval process, Customization and implemented Apex classes and Triggers associated with them to manage the workflow in the application.  ? Worked on SOQL and SOSL queries to fetch the data from the salesforce database  ? Used Tabular, Summary, Matrix, and Joined reports to create standard and custom reports  ? Defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects.  ? Scheduling the reports, dashboards for management and all the department heads by emails.  ? Used sandbox for testing and deployed the code into the production environment.  ? Worked closely with testing teams for bug fixing and issue resolution.    Environment:Force.com IDE, Apex Programming, Process Builder, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Pages, Data Loader, Sales Cloud, Service Cloud App exchange, HTML, Java Script, Apex, Triggers, Web Services, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs. Salesforce Administrator / Developer Credit Karma February 2016 to November 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Experience in the complete life cycle of project development (SDLC) including System Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Deployment.  ? Involved in creating and customizing Email template and configuring them to the Email alert within the workflow rule for a standard/custom object.  ? Creating and managing custom objects and field mappings for migrating records into SFDC.  ? Created customized page layouts and record-types for Opportunity, Contacts, and Accounts to distinguish between different Processes.  ? Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards, and graphics) and Report Folders to assist managers to better utilize Sales force as a sales tool and configured various Reports and for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  ? Creating Workflow Rules, Tasks, Email Alerts, and Components to suit to the application.  ? Used SOQL and SOSL to retrieve the data from Salesforce.  ? Designed, developed and deployed Visual Force Page, Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers based on the business requirements in agile manner.  ? Deployed development objects from sandbox to production using Chain sets and resolved the deployment errors during the deployments.  ? Participated in the bug review meetings, updated requirements document as per business user feedback and change in functionality of the application.  ? Followed Agile (Jira) methodology for Project development.    Environment: Salesforce.com, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Chatter, Email Services, Workflow & Approvals, Reports workflow, validation rules, report, dashboard, Data Loader, JIRA, Excel, APEX, Visualforce, JS.    Main Street Launch Consultant Salesforce April 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Analyzed current business processes and collaborated with business users to conceptualize and implement new processes  ? Involved in managing daily administration tasks like multiple user setup, profiles and roles, customization of objects, fields, record types, page layouts, and validations.  ? Responsible for Salesforce customizing i.e., creating custom objects, Page Layouts, Record Types, Validation Rules, Workflows and Approval Process.  ? Involved in Configuring application using Apex Script to meet the business requirements.  ? Created email templates with required merge fields.  ? Created the Reports and Dashboards as per the business requirements.  ? Build the Role Hierarchy System in Salesforce.com and created Profiles setup according the Profiles.  ? Worked on Auto response rules if customers contacted beyond the business hours.  ? Involved in uploading of data through Data Loader.  ? Used DocuSign to send documents to customers.  ? Involved in creating Approval Processes.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex, JS, IDE Web Developer LAUSD June 2013 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for gathering functional requirements of the project and working with the team members for design and implementation.  ? Worked developing web applications for school admission processing, school supplies processing and Administrative tasks etc..  ? Responsible for designing, developing, writing codes and debugging of web applications.  ? Developed innovative page layouts, navigations and designs as per client needs  ? Created backend database design using MySQL. Developed client side validation code using JavaScript. Used Java script libraries like JQuery to make web page more attractive.  ? Worked with the users to develop layout, color scheme for the web page and implement these with the help of HTML5, CSS.  ? Involved in discussions to improve application design and UI, improving web performance etc.  ? Responsible for developing the UI pages using Word press, HTML, CSS JavaScript, JQuery.    Environment: Laravel, PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Agile, MYSQL, NetBeans.    Zipline logistics Web Developer July 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Worked with the client to develop freight visibility application. Involved in designing layout, color scheme for the web pages, business logic  ? Implemented dynamic page elements and form error validations using JavaScript.  ? Designed and developed web pages according to customer specifications using Dreamweaver.  ? Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and JavaScript.  ? Used JavaScript, JQuery for user interactions in pages.  ? Worked with E-commerce databases to develop shopping cart, adding new fright products, editing promotion pages/products according to client requirements.  ? Responsible for QA testing, User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Accessibility Testing.  ? Involved in discussions to improve application design and UI to attract the customers.  ? Responsible for designing, developing, writing codes and debugging of web applications.  ? Developed applications using PHP, MySQL and object oriented programming.    Environment: PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Agile, MYSQL, Joomla. Education Master's Skills HTML, JSON, PHP, LARAVEL, APEX, Salesforce, COM, Salesforce Admin, Visualforce, Soql, SFDC, Java, Certification Links http://Salesforce.com