Web Administrator <span class="hl">Web</span> Administrator Network Engineering Santa Monica, CA Objective: Continued development of network and security skills to continue growing a wide set of information technology skills and knowledge of various types of infrastructure systems, software architecture, and applications. Current interest on new network hardware and technology like SDN. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Administrator Terabyte LA 2015 to Present Responsible for writing well designed, testable, efficient code by using modern software development practices. Deployed and concluded website instances and full domain system management on web hosts including: iPage, GoDaddy, and Google Domains. Time between projects was spent providing support to common and technical users for other software of the company. Web Developer Doctor Evidence 2013 to 2015 Responded to user and project managers' requirements to write and update web application code and content in PHP, HTML, and CSS. Worked on projects with tight deadlines with professional presentation level quality requirements. IT Intern Gensler June 2011 to 2012 Provided direct technical assistance and support to staff for network, hardware and software issues. Duties included installing and maintaining computer systems including software and hardware on desktops and laptops, resolving internet and network access issues (both wired and wireless), providing network printer support, meeting with staff to provide one-on-one technical assistance as needed/requested, providing training to staff on software and hardware use, determining causes of computer/software/network malfunctions through evaluation and testing and resolution via modifications, repair, or external support assistance. Education Bachelor's in Computer Information Systems - Business Administration California State Polytechnic University, Pomona - Pomona, CA December 2018 Skills C#, C++, Coding, Html, Javascript, Php, Cisco, Vmware, Css, Networking, Mysql, Sql, Linux, Excel, Powerpoint, Word, Confident, Detail oriented, Excellent communication skills, Team player, DNS, LAN, VPN, Security, firewalls Links http://linkedin.com/in/lance-lentz-071b50119 Certifications/Licenses CCENT August 2018 to August 2021 Cisco Certified Entry Level Network Technician. Additional Information SKILLS AND ABILITIES  Experienced in maintaining: Cisco Networking Equipment through CLI, Windows systems, Linux systems, Virtual Windows and Linux systems.  Proficient in the following coding languages:  Html, CSS, C++, C#, SQL, PHP, and JavaScript  Familiar with many software platforms including:  MySQL, WordPress, MSSQL, VMWare, VirtualBox  Expert level knowledge in Microsoft Products: PowerPoint, Word, Excel, Access  Abilities: Detail oriented, team player, determined, confident, resourceful, respectful, excellent communication skills.