Sr. Python Developer Sr. Python <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Synchrony Financial Palo Alto, CA • Professional 9+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, Flask and C++, BIG DATA.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular.js, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Expert knowledge and experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Experience in Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise applications.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, Eclipse, Emacs.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python /PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python /PHP) Architecture.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Hands on Experience in working with the Cassandra Query Language (CQL) for querying the data present in the Cassandra.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Well versed with Design and Development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Experience on creating new React/React-Native components, containers, services, and APIs for prototypes  • Experience in working with different operating systems Windows XP / Vista, UNIX, and MAC OS X.  • Good Analytical and Problem-Solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  • Excellent Interpersonal and Communication skills, Efficient Time Management and Organization Skills, ability to handle Multiple-Tasks and work well in a Team-Environment.  • Extensively worked on writing UNIX shell scripts for scheduling the sessions for my testing process of ETL.  • Good knowledge on data migration from relational database to NoSQL.  • Strong knowledge in MongoDB concepts - CRUD operations and aggregation framework  • Have been involved in testing using DB, have good knowledge in creating and executing complex SQL's  • Excellent knowledge on Python Collections and Multi-Threading.  • Skilled experience in Python with proven expertise in using new tools and technical developments  • Good experience in using different kind of data bases like MySQL, Oracle.  • Experience in analyzing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational database 9g, 10g, 11g.  • Experience in writing SQL queries and Stored Procedures and implementation on different databases.  • Expertise in understanding complex codes and extending their functionality.  • Managed users, workflow, groups and projects in JIRA and reported bugs, tracked defects.  • Knowledge of the software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies.  • Active Participation in full development life cycle (requirements, design, architecture, development, testing) Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Synchrony Financial - Palo Alto, CA April 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Version control using GitHub.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria,  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Having very good experience with BIG DATA  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.    Environment: Python, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wireshark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Sr. Python Developer Morgan Stanley - Charlotte, NC October 2014 to March 2016 Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML, BIG DATA to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Used PyQt for the functionality filtering of columns helping customers to effectively view their transactions and statements. Implemented navigation rules for the application and page.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Involved in Web development, programming, and engineering Django, UWSGI and SQL internal admin tools behave BDD.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Creation of Python scripts for data access and analysis (Scripts, Data Feeds, XLS, FIXML) to aid in process and system monitoring, and reporting.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Also used Bootstrap and Angular.js as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML5, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3, BIG DATA and JavaScript.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Build development environment with JIRA.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, Django, Java, Angular.js, Bootstrap, AWS, Bash, PyQt, XML, Shell Scripting, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Jenkins, Apache Web Server, Linux Python Developer Walgreens - Seattle, WA October 2013 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, BIG DATA and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed Use-Case, Class and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for Object Oriented Analysis/Object Oriented Design techniques.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Provided GUI utilizing PyQt for the end user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Angular.js is used to build efficient backend for client web application.  • Used Python to extract information from XML files.  • Expertise in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and its related technologies like Web Services, BPEL, WSDLs, SOAP, XML, XSD, XSLT etc.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce)  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used GIT for the version control.  Environment: Python, JavaScript, Django Framework, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server. Python Developer Discover Financials - Riverwoods, IL April 2012 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Worked with HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, and JavaScript in developing web applications.  • Used web applications development using Django/Python, Flask/Python, and, jQuery, Ajax while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered application.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting and MySQL Workbench for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Developed scripts in python for Financial Data coming from No SQL/ SQL Databases based on the requirements specified.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Worked on Python Openstack API's used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Used EC2 Container Service (ECS) to support Docker containers to run applications easily.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Used Pandas library for statistical analysis.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL Workbench database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Writing Subqueries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Developed automation scripts to test storage appliances in Python.  • Involved in the complete software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the web application.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Coding application using Python, Django in End-to-End Web application development using MVC architecture while front-end is built on CSS3 and HTML5.  • Used Test Driven Approach for developing the application and implemented the unit tests using Python Unit Test framework called PyUnit.  • Developed ETL packages using SSIS to insert datasets to SQL server and generate project reports using SSRS and SQL.  • Created Database Schema for MySQL Database and involved in designing ER-Diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Worked on Restful API's to access the third-party data for the internal analysis and statistical representation of that data.  • Used JavaScript for Dynamic Page Functionality, popup screens and the user entry validations.  Environment: Python, Django, Amazon AWS S3, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, MySQL, Linux, Apache Web server, XML, SOAP, Restful API. Python Developer First Flight - Santa Ana, CA March 2010 to February 2012 Responsibilities:  • Worked with the design team for project structure.  • Performed Design and Code reviews.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Performed coding in C++ on Linux Platform.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Expertise in writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers and User Defined Function.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browser to web application.  • Used JQuery for all client side JavaScript manipulation.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services  Environment: Python JavaScript, Django Framework, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server. Web Developer Front-end - Alpharetta, GA September 2009 to February 2010 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Worked with the design team for project structure.  • Developed a portal to manage entities in a content management system using Flask  • Designed the database schema for the content management system Performed Design and Code reviews.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Performed coding in C++ on Linux Platform.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Assisted with migrating, flattening to a temporary stand-alone WordPress site.  • Rewrite existing Python/C++ module to deliver certain formats of data.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript. Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Responsible for Parsing XML data using XML parser and Testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications.  • Configured SQL Developer to work with oracle and Oracle to work in the complicated queries required for the DAO layer development.  • Responsible for investigating the issues, defects, determining problem root cause, formulating corrective action recommendations & implementing them.  • Used UML to design various data models including data flow diagrams, work flow diagrams and interaction diagrams.  • Designed Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams depicting flow of the application using Rational Rose.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python scripting on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL and used PHP for backend programming.  • Evaluated, analyzed, and tested web interface to understand and enhance the overall usability of a prepping website.  • Designed, prototyped, engineered, and usability tested a complete financial and money managing application.  • Improvised an interface for R IT Library by automating actions carried out manually by the current system.  • Designed and documented an innovative approach for reserving tickets online via a web-based  • Application.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML and Web Services.  Environment: C++, XML, MYSQL, Apache, CSS, ORACLE, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, Linux and Windows, flask, Python, PHP, Rational Rose.    Additional Information Education MS university of southern California Skills AJAX (9 years), APACHE (9 years), DJANGO (9 years), HTML (9 years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Python C++, Java, Shell Script, Perl, SQL, BIG DATA  Python Framework Django  Databases MySQL, SQL Server 2008, Oracle 10g  Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML  Versioning Tools Subversion, GIT, Perforce, SVN, CVS  Web servers Apache, IIS  Operating systems Linux/Unix, Windows