Sr. Full Stack Developer Sr. Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Full Stack Developer - Price Water House Coopers Tampa, FL • Around 6 years of extensive experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including identification of business needs and constraints, collection of requirements, architecture, UI Design, implementation, testing, deployment and maintenance.  • Extensive experience in application and web development with emphasis on HTML/HTML5, XHTML, DHTML, XML, CSS 2/3, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular and JAVA technology.  • Strong knowledge in using Object Oriented Programming concepts in JavaScript and working knowledge of DOM models.  • Experience in writing application level code to interact with the backend code with AJAX and JSON or XML.  • Wrote code to consume the JSON data as a part of JQUERY, AJAX calls and update the DOM.  • Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Implemented React.js components, forms, events, keys and router. • Used RESTful, JSON CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Node.js, AJAX, JSON, GitHub  • Expertise in React.js for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts.  • Expertise in React Component for UX-Library consisted of Button, Checkbox, Input, Icons, Toggle Button, Dropdown, Multi-Level Dropdown and many more.  • Strong experience in developing websites using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, Node JS, D3.JS, Bootstrap and JSON.  • Experienced in understanding the server side technologies like Java, ASP.Net, and Python.  • Strong expertise in Web Application development using PHP with OOPs, SVN, MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, CSS.  • Designed Frontend within object Oriented JavaScript Framework like Angular JS, Bootstrap, Node JS and Ext JS.  • Maintained states in the stores and dispatched the actions using redux.  • Good Experience using Bootstrap for Responsive Web Design (RWD) and CSS media Queries.  • Developed websites using JavaScript frameworks such as AngularJS and NodeJS.  • Good experience working on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors  • Experience in developing applications using CSS-3 Media Queries, SASS, LESS and Responsive Web Design making.  • Dynamic applications to consume APIs, XML and JavaScript with CSS.  • Extensive experience in Building web applications using Kendo UI widgets, JQuery, Angular JS.  • Experienced in Model-View-Controller (MVC) frameworks for developing web applications  • Experience with Web 2.0 User Interfaces; W3C standards and specifications, and user-centered design principles.  • Expert in HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, JSON, Bootstrap, SASS, Node JS, Backbone JS, EXT JS, D3.JS, React JS, Angular JS.  • Good knowledge in Angular.js directives to create reusable elements and attributes, along with easy to test and maintain client side interactivity in web applications.  • Working knowledge of integrating Angular.js and React.js with additional custom directives. Also with Backbone.js and React.js to be used for comments sections.  • Experience with Firebug for Mozilla and IE Developer Toolbar for Internet Explorer.  • Experience in using JSUnit Testing for client side applications.  • Collaborated with team members in design, analysis, coding, testing, and website review.  • Coordinated with the business on User Acceptance Tests (UAT) and to get the approval from business on the design changes.  • Working Knowledge of Grunt in case of compilation, unit testing Etc.  • Experienced in version control tools like GIT, SVN and TFS  • Experienced with Java IDEs like Eclipse, RAD, Net Beans and Google Web Toolkit (GWT), sublime Text.  • Involved in Unit Testing with Jasmine & Karma  • Good knowledge of SEO in web design and development.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, fast learner and has proven my abilities in my projects both as a team player and an individual. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Full Stack Developer Price Water House Coopers December 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed the user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, Es6 JavaScript, Node JS and Node-Native, Angular6.  • Worked as a Front End Developer on the project with Javascript, ES6, Node, Redux Saga, RESTful services, HTML5/CSS3/SASS/Bootstrap and Gitlab.  • Worked in designing, developing and testing the web application by using the HTML5, CSS3, SASS, LESS, Bootstrap, and Node.JS.  • Modified Angular 4 code that used RxJS to make it compatible with Angular 6.  • Project started with Angular 4 and then we upgraded it to Angular 6.  • Used Angular 2 Dependency Injection (DI) widely to ensure robust, flexible and testable code.  • Pop up forms are created using Angular 2 Controllers, Angular 2 Models and Bootstrap Models.  • Involved in designing in web pages using HTML 5, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, Node.js, Redux, Node-Bootstrap, .js, express.js, Mongo DB.  • Worked on application backend implemented as Node.js express application server.  • Developed application as Enterprise JavaScript using - AngularJs, NodeJs, Websockets, Jasmine  • Worked in designing the CSS templates for use in all pages on the website working with CSSBackground, positioning, text, border, margin, padding, and table.  • Skilled in leading frameworks as Node.js to build high-quality, scalable and reusable components and Front-end solution.  • Developed user interface by using the Node HOC, Flux/Redux for SPA development.  • Used Node Observables to create custom components for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format.  • Implemented back-end Web API with the use of MongoDB, ExpressJS, and JS and established connectivity.  • Achieved APIs calls from back end JS using Node axios.  • Working with Axios Library to fetch data from network request.  • Elegantly used Node-Router techniques to retrieve data from server synchronously in the background without interfering with the display and existing page in an interactive way.  • Interact with other developers and end users to design and implement new features throughout the framework.  • Designed and implemented server-side RESTful web services using JS and handled communications to the client side (Node JS) using JSON.  • Developed Angular modules, routers and services using typescript.  • Implemented mock backend, in Angular JS using Typescript for testing purposes.  • Implement new Front-End features with Typescript/ JavaScript and other RESTful APIs.  • Node.js Developer responsible for managing the interchange of data between the server and the users. Sr. UI/UX Developer C&S Wholesale grocers - Charleston, SC October 2017 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Software Development Life Cycle phases like requirements gathering, Analysis, Design and Development.  • Designed and developed web pages using with HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, Ajax and jQuery based on the W3C standards and Web 2.0.  • Designed web pages using Cold Fusion, JavaScript, DHTML, and HTML using SQL and Access as the backend database.  • Developed various UI (User Interface) components using AngularJS (MVC), JSON and HTML.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Angular Materials, Ajax, and Angular JS 2.0 &4.0..  • Works on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Works in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept.  • Extensive experience of Object Oriented JavaScript design pattern and JavaScript MVC Patterns Preferably Angular JS 2.0.  • Involved in implementing MVC architecture to separate business logic from the view using OOP in PHP 5.  • Front-end development utilizing JavaScript frameworks such as Angular JS, JQuery UI.  • Developed a Utility function to increase the reusability of the code in different places.  • Worked on Media Queries as a complement to the Grid System of UI Bootstrap to facilitate the implementation of the responsiveness.  • Worked in C#, ASP.Net, C#.Net for GUI design and business logic implementation.  • Developed websites using JavaScript frameworks such as AngularJS 2.0 & 4.0.  • Designed and implemented a SPA (Single Page Application) in AngularJS.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like bootstrap, Node.js, and AngularJS.  • Worked on JavaScript frameworks (Angular JS, Node.js) to argument browser based applications.  • Actively involved in using AngularJS, HTML5 to enable client side date to meets specific criteria by applying various validation variables and used the AngularJS validation CSS classes to provide visual feedback on validation.  • Created proof-of-concept using responsive web design, Node JS, HTML5 and CSS3.  • Designed applications that execute on various browsers such as Internet Explorer, Mozilla.  Firefox, Google chrome and opera using various debugging tools like firebug/IE developer tools.  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using Angular.js  • Used CSS Preprocessors like LESS and SASS to increase user experience for button.  • Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using Responsive design and media queries.  • Implement JQuery plug in to navigate to different section of the page of the application using DOM elements.  • Created QUnit test interface allowing for complete testing of core framework custom JavaScript code.  • We setup the development environment using Node.JS, NPM, Grunt, Bower, and GIT.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, AutoComplete, JSON, Angular JS, native JavaScript and Bootstrap.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application  • Used React flux to polish the data and for single directional flow.  • Used Middleware, Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Back-End and to also perform RESTFUL services.  • Used AJAX and JSON to process asynchronous actions between front and back end  • Involved in responsive web design  • Resize photos and make thumbnails for products using Adobe Photoshop.  • Implemented application deployment on Apache Tomcat web Server.  • Developed Windows Development with C#.NET.  • Compile a system design procedure proposal that meets every requirement and follows agile methodology.  • Working Knowledge of Grunt, Bower and Karma in case of compilation, unit testing Etc.  • Used SVN for Source Control and Version Management  • Used GIT for version control and handled unit testing using Jasmine and Karma.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, Kendo UI, MongoDB, Angular.js 1.5, angular 2.0 , React JS ,Backbone.js, Can JS, Bootstrap, Responsive Design, XML, XHTML, JQuery UI, Photoshop, Cold Fusion ,Dreamweaver, JSON, DOM, SOAP, JSP, JSF, agile ,Grunt, Gulp QUnit, PHP,SVN and Windows. Sr. UI/UX Developer OPTUM - Minneapolis, MN February 2016 to October 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in development and finalization of initial design of the application and worked with content Managers, copywriters and designers to resolve the issues.  • Developed User Interface and web page screens for various modules using Html, CSS, JavaScript, and AJAX and Angular JS and Node JS.  • Communicated with the business partner and settled down the business requirements.  • Utilized React for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app that searched projects via the GitHub API through keywords.  • Used React-Autocomplete for creating google maps location search on the webpage.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application  • Used ReactJS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Analyzed business requirements and prepared for the Project Design and Plan Document.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like bootstrap, Node.js, -Angular.js. Implemented MVC framework in order to use AngularJS.  • Designed web pages using Cold Fusion, HTML, and JavaScript.  • Used ASP.NET 2.0 and C# Server controls, User Controls and HTML controls.  • Defined all AngularJS controllers in a JS file and reused in various pages of application.  • Designed and developed custom JQuery components for the front end client side validations.  • Implemented Angular service calls using Angular Factory.  • Developed CSS page layouts, styles and table less coding for efficient design.  • Designed DOM based interactive to reprogram selected links and adopted WCAG 2.0 standards for HTML and XHTML and W3C standards for CSS as well.  • Making the website structure responsive by obtaining Cross browser compatibility.  • Angular JS is used to obtain features like templating, RESTfulAPI handling, AJAX handling and dependency injection.  • Implemented Angular Directives to make customized components.  • Implemented Object Oriented Programming, MVC architecture and Design Patterns in the development of Multi-Tier distributed enterprise applications.  • Developed Web Services with C# Win forms, Product developed using Visual Studio.Net.  • Developed application using ASP.NET, C#, AJAX, SQL Server 2005.  • Developed data insertion forms and validated them using JavaScript.  • Applied multiple built-in Directives such as ng-model, ng-click into AngularJS application.  • Developed web pages with rich UI layouts using designing tools and also the interaction between the pages using AJAX and JSON.  • Experience in built web services using spring and CXF operating within ESB, offering REST, AWS and SOAP interfaces.  • Developed an interface to seamlessly combine the new module with their login system by using AngularJS framework.  • Jasmine is used for assertions and test double utilities and Mocha for having a test runner which is essential in unit testing.  • Implemented MVC for designing Graphical User Interface which is used in web application.  • Used JQuery plug-in for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Implemented AJAX for better user experience by dynamically providing Asynchronous request and response communication between the client and the server.  • Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Implemented Bootstrap to make sure that the website is compatible on all the operating systems such as Linux PHP Laravel routes and authentication to extend the functionality of the server and configured the application using Apache server.  • Implemented flux pattern by using redux framework as a core dependency.  • Used SVN as version control tool to update work progress with other team members.  • Setup Karma and Jasmine for UNIT and Functional Testing of JavaScript.  • Actively participated and provided feedback in a constructive and insightful manner during daily and weekly iterative review meetings to track the progress for each iterative cycle and figure out the issues.    Environment: React, Angular JS, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, NodeJS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, SVN, SQL, JSON, Microsoft Asp.Net MVC, JSON, Cold Fusion,RESTFUL web services, Visual Studio 2010. UI/ Web Developer UPS - Hunt Valley, MD December 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed the Web application layout and forms using HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.  • Used AngularJS framework for building web-apps and is highly efficient with PHP framework as well as using Restful services.  • Developed the user interactive web applications and Rich Internet Applications (RIA's) using with the help of Adobe Dreamweaver CS5.  • Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using HTML5, XHTML, CSS and Client side scripting using JavaScript.  • Worked on Browser Compatibility and tested each and every web application on popular web browsers such as Internet Explorer, Firefox, Safari, Opera and Chrome.  • Wrote code to fetch data from Web services using jQuery AJAX via JSON response and updating the HTML pages.  • Designed website using HTML5 and CSS with desired 'old and clean' look, under a very aggressive deadline.  • Involved in designing, developing and testing the web application by using the HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, and React.JS  • Involved in designing the CSS templates for use in all pages on the website working with CSS Background, positioning, text, border, margin, padding, and table.  • Applied optimization techniques to reduce page size and load times to enhance user experience using sprites.  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux for SPA development.  Involved in responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React.js.  • Maintain and update core Wordpress PHP files, doing backups, updates, and regular fixes to custom code.  • Designing web pages for HTML files that supports AJAX component, Rich design time UI to use AJAX libraries such as Dojo, jQuery.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, Backbone.js, Wire-framing, and HTML5.  • Used .NET validation controls for client validations and server side validations.  • Designed UI patterns, UX patterns, GUI designs, page illustrations, and user conceptual designs, templates and banners using Adobe Photoshop CS5 and Adobe Illustrator CS5.  • Developed E-commerce enterprise applications using web technologies like HTML, DHTML, XHTML, DOM, PHP Script, JSP Script and CSS based on the W3C standards.  • Worked on Browser Compatibility and tested each and every web application on popular web browsers such as Internet Explorer, Firefox, Safari, Opera and Chrome.  • Hands on experience in designing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using DRUPAL 7,  • Used EXT JS for building rich internet applications, Backbone.js & Require JS to optimize in-browser use and to load the module and to improve the Speed  • Coordinated with the quality group for testing activities and Production Support team to resolve the solution.  • Used CSS, CSS3, XHTML, HTML, HTML5, XML, DHTML, Ajax, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJs and mobile frameworks: PhoneGap, jQuery Mobile to develop locate Buildings in mobile app for iPhone, Android and Blackberry phones.  • Involved in Migrating an existing on-premises application to AWS.  • Designed front end web applications by writing HTML code with the help of Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques  • Developed the Buttons like popup windows and the modal windows by using the JQuery.  • Coordinated with the quality group for testing activities and Production Support team to resolve the solution.  Environment: CSS, HTML, CMS, XHTML, DHTML, XML, XSL, XSLT, JavaScript, JQuery, IIS,508 standards, Adobe Dreamweaver CS4, AJAX, Adobe Creative Suite, Adobe Flash, Action Script 3.0, Adobe Illustrator CS4, Adobe Fireworks, Adobe Photoshop CS4 and MS Office Suite. HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY, AJAX, XML, JSON, SVN and Eclipse UI/ Web Developer NSG India September 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with internal clients to define business objectives, project scope, solution space and design/development approach for various knowledge research applications.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, HTML5, jQuery, JavaScript and Backbone.JS.  • Developed application features using the new custom Model View Controller (MVC) framework for the 2-way binding in the webpage.  • Built JavaScript application with Backbone. JS MVC framework to render the web pages faster, as well as using Node.JS for server side rendering.  • Used the latest JavaScript libraries like Underscore.js, Mustache.js, Handlebar.js for templating the code in this project.  • Implemented Backbone CRUD operations (Create, Read, Update and Delete) and Paginator for pagination for Tables.  • Used CSS3 to develop Rich UI Components such as Accordions and Modal Windows using pure HTML 5 and CSS3.  • Worked on Motion Stories using HTML5 new features like Animations, Transitions, Carousel, video for the better user interface.  • Integrated Google API in the application to render Google maps and used AWS Cognito for Web identity federation.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs by meeting the standards of World Wide Web Consortium (W3C).  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls using Object Oriented JavaScript.  • Used Backbone.js and Handlebars.js framework where data from backend is stored in model and populated it to UI.  • Utilized various JavaScript and jQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation with the data existed in the database, other interactive features and also created dynamic web pages making AJAX Calls, using the XML Http Request Object.  • Used JQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the applications.  • Optimized the page load time for the pages that had heavy traffic by implementing the code optimization techniques and improvised those pages using CSS.  • Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and increase the load time of web pages.  • Worked in Agile/SCRUM methodology approach for UI Development and attended the daily team meetings, weekly scrum meetings.  • Successfully implemented Auto Complete/Auto Suggest functionality using Ajax, JQuery, DHTML, Web Service call.  • Involved in implementation and up-gradation latest versions of JQuery by replacing the deprecated methods with the latest methods.  • Used Twitter Bootstrap framework for developing customizable and fully responsive for various screen sizes.  • Consumed web services using RESTFUL architecture.  • Extensively used JQuery load method to load data from a server and to put the returned data into the selected element.  • Tested cross browser functionality and fixed major layout bugs for supported browsers including IE6.  • Used External Apache services through XAMPP control panel for the GUI and also tomcat internally inside eclipse for the backend.  • Used GIT as a Version Control tool and as a code repository and involved in Project Code Debugging and testing and resolving the JIRA bugs assigned.  • Used Jenkins for the build process to generate the rpm-build and used Grunt.js as a build tool to build the project and for the code minification of JavaScript files.    Environment: JavaScript, PHP 5.0, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Apache, java, J2ee, Windows 2000/XP. MYSQL, JOOMLA. UI Developer Value Labs - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2013 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements analysis, design, and development and testing.  • Responsible for developing the UI pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery and Ajax.  • Developed Page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  • Used firebug, IE developer toolbar and chrome canary tool for debugging java script and fixing issues.  • Created a list forms to collect data and store it in SharePoint.  • Experience with SOAP and Restful web services.  • Worked in scrum process attending daily stand up and completing tasks in sprints.  • Involved in setting up the different roles & maintained authentication to the application.  • Designed UI using HTML, Java Script, CSS and JSP.  • Used Java script for client side validations.  • Involved in fixing defects & tracked them using QC& Provided support and maintenance and customization  • Involved in running PMD defects &Find bugs.  • Dealt with business processes and Updated Project documents.  • Involved in validating the application for different browser compatibility & users load.    Environment: HTML, CSS, , AJAX, JSON, XML , Apache Maven, Eclipse, Notepad++, ORACLE, XML, HTML4.01, DHTML, Java Script, Servlets 2.4, CSS, AJAX, SVN, QC Edit Plus. Education Masters in Science and Engineering Oklahoma Christian University Skills VISUAL STUDIO, Git, JAVASCRIPT, ANGULAR.JS, BOOTSTRAP, UI Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages JavaSCRIPT, JQUERY, AJAX, JAVA, JDBC, JSP, ASP Dot Net  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, XML, UML  Frameworks REACT.JS, ANGULAR.JS, NODEJS, BOOTSTRAP  XML/ Web Services JAX-WS, APACHE CXF  Databases ORACLE 8I/9I/10G, MySQL, MS ACCESS  Application / Web Servers JBOSS, TOMCAT, WEB SPEHARE, WEB LOGIC  IDEs VISUAL STUDIO, ECLIPSE, EDIT PLUS, NET BEANS, STS, ATOM  Other Tools ANT, MAVEN, JUNIT, SVN, LOG4J, RATIONAL.GIT