Sr. UI Developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Developer - AutoZone Memphis, TN • Around 6+ years of experience in the SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) phases which includes requirements, Analysis, Design, Testing, and Deployment of web applications.  • Experience in dynamic web development and Client-side programming with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, XML, jQuery,Bootstrap, AJAX, JSP, Ruby on Rails, VBScript etc.  • Good experience in development with new front-end frameworks like Angular JS, Angular 2, Angular 4, Angular 5, NodeJS, React JS and Redux.  • Worked on React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Responsible for developing front-end application using React JS and FLUX architecture for internal team's productivity use.  • Implemented React-Router, React-Redux architecture, ES5, ES6, Web pack and Grunt to turn application into Single Page Application (SPA).  • Used Babel transpolar to convert ES6 to ES5 for browser understanding.  • Utilized ECMA Script 6 features to build JSX and ES2015 (ES6) using Babel& Webpack.  • Implemented Java EE components using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, spring transactions and spring security modules.  • Developed OOJS code and responsible for client-side validations using jQuery functions.  • Worked closely with client/partner teams on defining business requirements.  • Extensive experience in developing UI applications using AngularJS 1.x and Angular 2/4, proficient in creating modules, components/Controllers, Custom Directives, Custom Filters, Service Factories, Data Binding, Dependency Injection.  • Created web templates and customized modules for various CMSs such as WordPress applications.  • Implemented full featured front-end application using Angular 4, TypeScriptand jQuery.  • Developed Single Page Applications using Angular 2, Typescript, Webpack and Grunt.  • Worked onAngular 2 by consuming Restful web services& usedAngular 2 forms like Template Driven forms and Modern Driven (Reactive) forms to perform form validations both on server and client side.  • Worked with Express.JS for development of RESTful web services & middleware configurations.  • Used Express framework to set up middleware to respond to HTTP requests with the help of Node.js.  • Experience in Application servers such as Apache Tomcat, JBoss, IBM WebSphere Application Development, etc.  • Extensive knowledge in developing Single Page Applications (SPAs) using various JavaScript frameworks like Angular.js, Node.js and Backbone.js.  • Used Sketch and Photoshop to design websites: typography, images (svg, jpeg), colors, layouts, etc.  • Enabled real-time bi-directional communication between server and client using Socket.io.  • Refactored rendering from client-side rendering to server-side rendering to reduce initial page loading time and achieve better SEO performance.  • Good knowledge and experience on various IDE's like Visual Studio, Eclipse, NetBeans, RAD, JBuilder, Sublime Text, etc.  • Used SQL to retrieve data from Oracle database.  • Good working knowledge of DOM (Document Object Model) functions.  • Worked with React Component Life cycle in updating the Virtual DOM and also making AJAX calls in components.  • Extensive experience on implementing AJAX features using JavaScript, OOJS and jQuery.  • Designed and developed CI/CD pipelines built and coordinate an automated build & release CI/CD process using Git Lab, Jenkins, Nexus, and Chef on hybrid IT infrastructure.  • Strong learning of the Web services like SOAPand RESTfulAPIs for building communication and message exchange between the systems.  • Extensive experience working with UMLconcepts like Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams, etc.  • Good understanding of Hibernate, spring and Core Java.  • Experience in developing and documenting in the entire SDLC.  • Good knowledge of the OOPs concepts and the design patterns in ASP.net.  • Worked on Agile and Waterfall methodologies.  • Worked on Jira for the tracking and management of projects to update the tasks.  • Used Git for version control and automated deployment & release management process usingTFS, GitHub.  • Experience in TFSbuilds with Version Control Systems like GIT, CVS, SVN (Subversion).  • Experience in Cross-browser compatibilityimplementation like Chrome, Safari, IE, and Firefox.  • Used Bower, NPM, Grunt and Gulpfor managing the dependencies in the web application.  • Used Docker for virtualization, Ship, Run and Deploy the application securely to fasten the Build/Release  Engineering.  • Experience in installing and configuring MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracleand MongoDB servers.  • Experience in using the debugging tool Firebug.  • Used Adobe Illustrator, Sketch for the visual design.  • Strong attention to detail, excellent verbal and communication skills, ability to work within a team and independently, good analytical and problem-solving skills.  • Excellent team player, self-starter and good at Multi-Tasking with ability to handle deadlines in fast paced environment.    Technologies and Tools:    Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, XML, Bootstrap, SASS/SCSS, LESS, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, DOM, OOJSs  Languages: Java, C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL, UML, XST, XSLT  Frameworks/J2EE: Java/J2EE, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Servlets, JDBC, JSP, Java Beans, MVC, Struts, Hibernate Work Experience Sr. UI Developer AutoZone - Memphis, TN January 2018 to Present AutoZone is the leading retailer and a leading distributor of automotive replacement parts and accessories in the U.S. with more than 6,000 stores across the fifty United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Mexico and Brazil and more than 85,000 AutoZoners supporting operations on four continents. My role is to assist in development and support of our B2C, B2B and International E Commerce Properties .Asan UI Developer I execute complex technical projects, includingJava Script based Web Projects with Angular 6, Node. JS.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for designing and developing interactive UI pages with HTML5, CSS3, SASS.  • Responsible for developing the static content for front end with HTML5, CSS3 and Angular 6 by coordinating with the UX designers.  • Implemented Angular Router in directing users to different pages based on the option they choose on the main page and guards such as CanActivate, CanActivateChild, CanDeactivate, CanLoad for protecting the routes.  • Worked on company's internal Single Page Application (SPA) using Angular 6 and provided Routing solutions with the help of Router Module.  • Consumed RESTful web services in Angular 6 using http, Observables using various operators like Modify, Filter, Map, Routing and Navigation for calling data from the backend.  • Worked on different components of Web Services with Angular 6 using Services, Components and Filters.  • Responsible for writing the front-end API to fetch the data from end points.  • Used high chart's for developing the widget's and show them in dashboard by integrating all the possible high chart libraries that are necessary.  • Used Bing map's for assisting the user to locate their individual fleets under them.  • Consumed RESTful web services in Angular 6 using http, Observables using various operators like Modify, Filter, Map, Routing and Navigation for calling data from the backend.  • Used Bootstrap and media queries to create a responsive website that fit all users and devices from desktop to tablet.  • Experience working on cross-browser compatibility of UI for Firefox, Chrome, IE and Safari browsers.  • Involved in production support and bug fixing.  • Wrote AJAX calls with JSON responses and all JavaScript is written in JSON format.  • Used GIT repository for source code management and code reviewing. Even used source tree for code management.  • Good knowledge of debugging Typescript and html code with Firefox Firebug and Google chrome Developer tools.  • Worked with AGILE Methodology in recent projects and participated in SCRUM meetings as well in previous projects.    Environment: HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, JavaScript, ECMAScript 6, Angular 6,GIT, MVC/MVVM, Kendo UI, InVision, AJAX, XML, PL/SQL. Sr. UI Developer Paychex - Rochester, NY November 2016 to December 2017 Paychex, Inc. is an American provider of payroll, human resource, and benefits outsourcing services for small- to medium-sized businesses. With headquarters in Rochester, New York, the company has more than 100 offices. Paychex Flex is a modular, web-based human capital management solution designed to meet the needs of employers of any size and industry. With a single login, users can access recruiting and applicant tracking (ATS), onboarding, HRIS, benefits administration, time and attendance, payroll, retirement, and more.    Responsibilities:  • Developed various workflows for Incident Management, Change Management,Integrating services to the application and creating formatted URLs and error handling Actions  • Developed copy scripts by using Lerna Bootstrap so that It can copy entire modules to other modules which gives usage application smooth flow.  • Developing Debug APK's and Single Sign On (SSO) for handling the security issues  • Working as Point of contact (POC) for angular application and involved in developing 2.0 wrapper services and integrating them in production application  • Execute code quality assurance procedures, fix bugs troubleshoot and optimize the system performance to maximize speed and scale, deploy applications, maintain and upgrade existing systems.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  • Used components such as React Router, Axios, Redux-form, React Material UI, Components, Forms, Events, Keys.  • Responsible for developing a front-end application using React.js and Redux architecturefor internal team's productivity use.  • Build custom validations before submitting it to backend using Redux Form.  • Worked with Node JS for creation of robust and secure REST APIs.  • Used Es6 for syntactical sugar and better understanding  • Used React Native to build mobile application.  • Followed agile methodology in developing this application.  • Work in cross-functional team to develop timely changes and meet the design requirements.    Environment: HTML/HTML5, CSS, SASS, JavaScript, Es6, React.JS, ReatNative, AndroidStudio, Redux, JSX, JSON, Bootstrap, NPM, Node.js, Express.js, WebStrom, Restful APIs, TypeScript, CMS, Chrome developer tools, ReactNative Debugger, Firebug. UI Developer Signet Jewelers - Akron, OH September 2014 to October 2016 Design, develop and deliver high-end and flawless services to our clients which meet all criteria whilst offering maximum impact at an affordable price.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed front-end programming and UI layout for the web application which matches the wireframes, using the HTML5, CSS3 and AngularJS.  • Used the new CSS3 features like multi-column layout, transform and transpose, gradients and web fonts and @media.  • Used the new features and updates of HTML5 such as Canvas and SVG, new input attributes, audio, video, local storage, etc.  • Worked with SASS/SCSS pre-processor to simplify writing the CSS styles.  • Used Node.js and Java to perform server-sideoperations.  • Experience in implementing the MVC frameworks like Angular.js for AJAX data calls using the $http service.  • Used Bootstrap, SASS, and LESS CSS for creating responsive web design.  • Worked on Agile methodologies and used Scrum to implementthe project.  • Used Jira as a tool for project tracking and management where we update the daily tasks performed.  • Used Git for version control and IDEs like WebStorm, Eclipse, and Net Beans.  • Analyzed and parsed the response of JSON/XML to update DOM.  • Used Bower and NPMfor managing the frontend and node modules.  • Built a prototype for internal blog application using the CMS tool WordPress.  • Worked on latest AngularJS concepts like creating custom directives, services, $http service, factory's,$watch and $apply, etc.  • Developed RESTful web services using Spring MVC.  • Designed and developed views, controller and model components implementing Struts framework.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Java, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Bower, RESTful, Spring MVC, Struts, Git, JIRA, WebStorm, SASS/SCSS, LESS, Node.js, WordPress, Agile, Scrum. Web Developer CES January 2013 to July 2014 The project was involved in the development of Web pages in which user can give values in terms of policies to get insurance coverage related information.    Responsibilities:  • Coded the business methods according to the IBM Rational Rose UML model.  • Involved in Analyzing, Design, Implementation and Testing of the project.  • Used HTML, XHTML, CSS and JavaScript to implement the presentation layer.  • Used Asynchronous JavaScript and XML (AJAX) for better and faster interactive Front-End  • Used SQL server to implement the database.  • Designed Tables and Indexes.  • Developed User and Technical documentation.  • Used DB2 Database to store the system data  • Used Git for controlling the version of the project  • Involved in fixing defects and unit testing with test cases using JUnit.    Environment: HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Hibernate XML, SQL server, DB2, Git, Junit. Education Bachelor's Additional Information Operating systems: Windows, Mac OS  Web Servers: Apache Tomcat, HTTP Web Server  Animation: Adobe PageMaker, Sketch, Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, Windows Movie maker  Database: MySQL, PL/SQL(Oracle), PostgreSQL  IDEs: Eclipse IDE, Net Beans, Sublime text, Microsoft Visual Studio, WebStorm, RAD, Notepad++, Brackets  JavaScript Libraries: Angular.js, Angular 2, Angular 4,Angular 5, jQuery, Node.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap.js, React.js, Socket.io, Material Angular  Methodology: Agile, Waterfall Version Control Tools: Git,Apache Subversion, CVS  Web Services: SOAP, RESTful  Build Tools: Jenkins, Maven