Front-end Web Developer Front-end <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front-end Web Developer - Wheel & Sprocket Appleton, WI ? 7+ years of experience in Web designing and developing using different web technologies.  ? Experience in full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) that includes Analyzing, Designing, Coding, Testing and Implementation.  ? 6+ years of experience in developing Front end/UI using HTML, XHTML, DHTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, SQL Server 2008.  ? Experience in using Tools and editors like Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, and Dreamweaver, CMS Tool.  ? Experience in performing on-page Search Engine Optimization (SEO)  ? Proficient in designing and presenting multiple concepts using workflows, screen flows, mockups and prototypes.  ? Ability to work in-groups as well as independently with minimum supervision and experience working with on-site clients and committed to achieve business goals.  ? A fast learner and quick in adapting new technologies.  ? Sophisticated CSS and HTML5 that works equally well in all modern browser content with simplified style. IE, Chrome and Firefox.  ? Began as one of two front-end developers shortly after site was founded (UX designer) and creating wireframes.  ? Creation of process flow diagrams in Microsoft Visio.  ? Extensive ETL experience using SSIS for Data processing.  ? I have strong knowledge in SSIS, SSAS and SSRS.  ? Expertise in Writing and Debugging complex T-SQL queries, Joins, Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions, Triggers and Views.  ? Strong Knowledge in Database concepts, Data Warehousing concepts, Relational Database Management Systems, Software engineering and other Engineering subjects.  ? Expert in generating formatted parameterized SQL server Reports, sub-reports with drilldowns and popup using SSRS using MDX, Cubes and Stored procedures. Work Experience Front-end Web Developer Wheel & Sprocket - Appleton, WI April 2014 to Present Project Description  Wheel & Sprocket is the Bicycle dealer and they have 7 branches in Wisconsin. Wheel & Sprocket website deals with bicycle information, branch details, Online shopping for Bicycle. It has 2 different designs for mobile and PCs.    Roles and Responsibilities  ? Requirement gathering and designed the webpage layouts to fit in Client requirements using Adobe Photoshop.  ? Defined and developed the application's presentation layer using HTML, CSS 3, JavaScript, and JQuery  ? Worked in Developing the styled Menus, Locations page with google maps using JQuery/CSS 3  ? Worked in Developing Web page for mobile applications  ? Worked on maintenance of CMS Content  ? Used to convert illustrator design to HTML, CSS webpages as per clients customization needs.  ? Worked on the social networking plugins and send mail features    Environment HTML, CSS 3, JQuery, JavaScript, PSPad, Adobe Photoshop CS2, Illustrator UI Developer Dice Design Plus - Marietta, GA May 2012 to March 2014 Projects - Bridge Mill Drive Southeast, Marietta, GA.  www.dicedesignplus.com  Dice design plus is the service provider for creating websites.    UI Developer/UX Designer  Project Description  Star Limo Car Service - It's the online limo car booking service. Admin have an option to see the Pending Reservation and Confirmed Reservation.  www.starlimocarservice.com  www.bestonpowermax.com  www.ace-men.com    Roles and Responsibilities  ? Experience in Developing and Publishing Limo Reports in SQL Server 2008 R2 using SSRS (SQL Server Reporting Services)  ? Working with Parameterized Reports with Multi-Valued Parameters/Multiple groupings/data sets /Expressions for flexible reporting  ? At Star Limo Car Service, I helped these clients to achieve results in various search engines  ? Working on banners for advertising on corporate client sites using CSS3, JavaScript, and JQuery  ? Worked with Html5 Advanced tags like Article  ? Working with forum sites using Html5  ? Responsible for transforming Adobe Photoshop CS5 designs of new pages to HTML/XHTML pages using CSS3, JavaScript  ? Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts  ? Responsible for Flash motion development, animation builds and action scripting  ? Worked for Search Engine Optimization for the websites  ? Optimized site using CSS frameworks and modern best practices to make front-end more lightweight.  ? Designed content for website, evaluated content and edited it as required  ? Developed Adobe Acrobat documents and maintained  ? Defined information architecture for websites, including wireframes and navigation  ? Design and program content for mobile applications (iPad) and responsive Web sites using the Twitter Bootstrap framework  ? I used debug and test the web sites using firebug    Environment  MS SQL Server 2008 R2, MS SQL Integration Services (SSIS), MS SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Adobe Photoshop CS5, Dreamweaver, JQuery, Visio Web Developer/UX Designer Sun Online Learning India Pvt. Ltd - Chennai, Tamil Nadu January 2011 to October 2011 Project Description  Edustrokes is a Web based e-Learning application to make the School students to understand the concepts in a fun filled manner. In that application, we have created e-learning courses such as Theme based Learning. Theme Based Learning is a unique strategy to generate interest among learners. Every Learning element is based on concept such as sports (cricket, football, and chess).Using this concept, students can easily relate this and it helps in better understanding. We have created interactive videos that enable the school students to clarify their doubts.  Careerstrokes is a Web application that improves the personal development and career enhancement activities. Krishkricket is a web application to see the cricket scores. This application can also be viewable in Nokia e7 mobiles using Nokia e7 ovi widget tool.  www.krishcricket.com  www.careerstrokes.com    Roles and Responsibilities  ? Responsible for transforming Adobe Photoshop CS5 designs of new pages to HTML/XHTML pages using CSS3, JavaScript  ? Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts  ? Responsible for the graphic design and implementation of company web site including navigation, writing HTML and JavaScript and optimization of web graphics  ? Developed banners for advertising on corporate client sites  ? Responsible to create the Articulate template for e-learning pages  ? Handled the tasks of developing concepts, approaches and story board for e-learning presentations  ? Assigned the responsibilities of conducting research and collecting information on materials and image references relevant to project  ? Responsible for Flash motion development, animation builds and action scripting  ? Worked for Search Engine Optimization for the websites  ? Optimized site using CSS frameworks and modern best practices to make front-end more lightweight  ? I used debug and test the web sites using firebug    Environment HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Adobe Photoshop CS5, Dreamweaver, AS2. Web Developer Microart Multimedia - Chennai, Tamil Nadu January 2009 to December 2010 Project Description  Websites development and facelift to the existing sites for small business like Retailer, Agriculture, Real Estate and Hotel Sites.    Roles and Responsibilities  ? Requirement gathering and designed the webpage layouts to fit in Client requirements using Adobe Photoshop.  ? Defined and developed the application's presentation layer using HTML, CSS and JavaScript meeting W3C standards  ? Designing user registration and contact form and browser side validation using JavaScript.  ? Developed banners for advertising on corporate client sites  ? Worked extensively on CSS for designing the webpages as per clients customization needs.  ? Worked on the social networking plugins and send mail features    Environment HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Adobe Photoshop CS2, Dreamweaver, Flash Web Consultant Chity S Media - Chennai, Tamil Nadu January 2006 to December 2008 Project Description Chity S Media is a Film Advertising company and designed various Film posters, advertisements  Roles and Responsibilities  ? Developed banners for advertising on corporate client sites  ? Designed Film advertisement poster designs, Flex board designs  ? Requirement gathering and designed the webpage layouts to fit in Client requirements using Adobe Photoshop  ? Designed and developed the website using HTML, CSS.  ? Development of the front end of the website from the Adobe Photoshop & Illustrators designs.  ? Worked with Adobe Photoshop CS2 for image slicing and editing during website development    Environment HTML, Adobe Photoshop CS2, Flash Skills Web Designer, Web Developer, Ux Designer, UI Developer, SSRS Report Developer Links https://www.linkedin.com/pub/gnanasekaran-subian-mani/13/a6a/481 Additional Information Technical Proficiency  Languages/Technologies HTML5, HTML, CSS3, XHTML, XML, JavaScript, AS2, JQuery  Graphics Editors Adobe Photoshop cs5, Adobe Illustrator cs5, Adobe Flash CS3, Swish Max 4, Visio  Data Base MS SQL Server 2008  Editors Dreamweaver, Notepad++, PSPad  Protocols FTP, HTTP, HTTPS, SMTP  Methodologies OOAD, Agile, Waterfall  Operating Systems Windows 2003/XP/Vista/7  Testing Tools Quality Center  Microsoft Tools SQL Server Management Studio, Visual Studio 2008 R2  BI Tools SSIS, SSRS, SSAS  Tools Articulate, CMS Tool