Front-End Developer Front-End <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front-End Developer San Jose, CA • Over 6+ years of extensive work experience in the various fields of software development, application development, primarily focusing on design, development using the web technologies likes HTML4/5, CSS2/3, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, JSON, XML, Bootstrap, AJAX and Angular 7  • Well-versed in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) with JavaScript.  • Strong knowledge in working with Document Object Model (DOM)  • Experience on working with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  • Experience in JQuery and AJAX for building rich user friendly, high performance web applications.  • Expertise in Angular 7 and Node JS to render the Dynamic Web Pages.  • Good experience with MVC framework.  • Strong knowledge in working with Document Object Model (DOM).  • Good knowledge of Responsive Web Design (RWD)  • Excellent experience in developing web pages complacent with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and ability to apply W3C web standards with great craftsmanship.  • Ability to write clear, maintainable, well-documented, well-commented and code  • Excellent communication with Interpersonal skills and a self-motivated team player.  • Strong problem solving skills and a thirst to learn the latest technologies in the industry. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front-End Developer USTOSHOP.COM - West Covina, CA August 2017 to March 2019 Worked on e-commerce business model aims to reward both merchants and customers that utilize our platform.  Responsibilities: -  • Involved in Agile scrum meetings.  • Work with Ionic framework and Angular framework to build USTOSHOP App for Android and IOS.  • Using cordova-plugin and Angular Material to allow users take pictures and create several movable tags on the pictures, then calculate DOM elements coodoraite and upload files as blob type to the company serve.  • Design development of presentation layers using HTML5, CSS3, Angular 7 and JavaScript.  • Worked on Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques and Search Engine Strategies (SES).  • Used pure CSS to make animation (breathe light, fade in) and draw simple geometric elements.  • Create classes to manage data from APIs instead of receive all.  • Create components to encapsulate code in order to make functions less dependency and reusable.  • Created TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using component-based architecture provided by Angular 7.  • Worked on Publishing and debugging for Android and IOS platform.  • Utilized observables and Services in Angular 7 for calling API's and build some custom directives.  • Used RWD (Responsive Web Design) techniques to enhance web page display based on screen-size, platform and orientation.  • Used Angular 7 for front end and integrated with backend NodeJS.  • Used JSON extensively for calling Web Services collecting data from server and sending requests to the server from client-side.  • Used GitHub code repository for code check-in/check-out.  • Involved in System Unit Testing and Integration testing in development environment.  Environment: Angular 7, MongoDB, HTML5/CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Jboss, Agile and Git. Web Developer Silicon Valley Bank - San Jose, CA September 2016 to August 2017 Worked on development / enhancement of Loan Processing and On-line Bill pay applications.  Responsibilities: -  • Design development of presentation layers using HTML5, CSS3, Node.JS, Angular 7, JavaScript, Jquery, and JSON.  • Implemented Single Sign On authentication with Facebook API.  • Developed multiple POCs to create an interface with routing, forms and integrating Restful API's using Angular 7.  • Created Restful API to communication to the MongoDB database.  • On the backend I created Node and Express setup, which just serves the static HTML page.  • Used GitHub code repository for code check-in/check-out.  • Involved in Agile scrum meetings.  • Involved in System Unit Testing and Integration testing in development environment.  • Participated in maintenance and production support.  Environment: Angular 7, NodeJS, HTML5/CSS3, JQuery, AJAX, SVN, JavaScript, GIT, Bootstrap, Agile Web Developer Orient Containers - Beijing, CN January 2013 to June 2015 Worked on development of Full stack application for warranty processing of auto parts.  Responsibilities: -  • Design development of presentation layers using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript and Jquery.  • Worked closely with the client to define business objectives, project scope, solution space and design/development approach for various mobile / web applications.  • Used AngularJS to make HTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Implemented the coding standards for improving performance of the Website. (Code Reuse, jQuery chaining, name spacing, CSS selector performance)  • Used RWD techniques to enhance web page display based on screen-size, platform and orientation.  • Applied techniques for cross-browser and cross-platform interface dev. using Javascript and Jquery  • Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular and jQuery to make the pages dynamic.  • Involved in System Unit Testing and Integration testing in development environment.  • Participated in maintenance and production support.  Environment: Angular.JS, HTML5/CSS3, JQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, JBoss Application Server, Agile Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science San Diego State University - San Diego, CA 2018 Skills HTML4/CSS3, Angular 7, XML, JavaScript, TypeScript, JSON (5 years), Ionic, Angular 7, Node.JS, AngularJS, JQuery, AJAX, (5 years), MySQL, MongoDB (3 years), Git (3 years), MAC, Linux, Windows 98/2000/XP/Vista/7 (4 years), Netbeans, Eclipse, Sublime (4 years)