AEM Developer AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> AEM Developer - Dish Network Denver, CO ? Around 8+ years of extensive professional experience in Developing, Testing, Integrating, Implementing and Leading AEM and User Interface (UI) web applications.  ? Strong experience in developing WCM applications using Adobe Day CQ and CRXDE.  ? Worked on design and implementation of modules on CQ 5.5 and 5.6.1.  ? Experience in Adobe Experience Manager (AEM 6.0, 6.1), WCM, CMS, CRXDE, CRXDE Lite, OSGI Framework, JCR, Apache sling, template development, CQ5, Component Development, Architecture, Administration and installation of author and Publish instances etc.  ? Have hands on experience with Adobe CQ5 Web Content Management (WCM) server.  ? Extensive experience of Front End Technologies: AJAX, JSTL, JSP, HTML, EXT JS, JavaScript, jQuery and CSS.  ? Hands on experience in Java 1.7, J2EE, JDBC, Multithreading, Servlets, JSP, JavaScript, XML, Web Services, REST services, JSTL, Hibernate, SQL, PLSQL, AJAX.  ? Very good at developing custom components, page components, template and workflow components in CQ 5.x.  ? Well versed with Application Servers Web Sphere 5.x and Web Server Tomcat 5.5/6.0.  ? Proven expertise in building N-Tier Web Applications using Servlets, JSP using MVC and Struts 1.x framework.  ? Implemented Java &J2EE design patterns in multiple projects.  ? Good understanding of Java content repositories, sling request processing and OSGi bundles.  ? Extensive experience in CQ/AEM, DSP, JSP and Display Tag for User Interface Development.  ? Efficient use of various design patterns such as MVC (Model-View-Controller), Singleton, Service locator, DAO (Data Access Object), DTO (Data Transfer Object), and Business Delegate in the development of distributed Enterprise Applications.  ? In-depth knowledge in design and development of MVC architecture using spring framework.  ? Good knowledge of web services and has technical understanding of SOAP protocol, REST full architecture, UDDI & WSDL.  ? Good understanding of J2EE Security framework. Having experience in configuration of SSL on Web Logic server.  ? Extensive knowledge and hands on experience with XML, HTML, DHTML, CSS, SQL, WAP.  ? Experience with Agile process methodology.  ? Proficient in using various IDEs like CRXDE, CRXDE-Lite, RAD, and Eclipse. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience AEM Developer Dish Network - Denver, CO January 2018 to Present Company provides satellite television, audio programming, and interactive television services to commercial and residential customers in the United States.    Responsibilities:  ? Building Content management solutions using Adobe Experience manager.  ? Worked on Proof of Concept (POC) for Content migration from Drupal CMS to AEM using Python and Java data migration scripts.  ? Extensively implemented a Proof of concept of migrating the data to websites based on AEM6.1.  ? Calling the forms automation engine using web services and API'S.  ? Working in sprint & scrum agile methodologies.  ? Setup the code base for AEM Project using AEM developer tools.  ? Designs and develops robust and scalable software architecture  ? Used Sightly templating language for implementing AEM Components.  ? Used AEM Developer tools plugin for exporting and importing content to and from AEM Repository.  ? Used CRXDE and Brackets for components & templates development, and eclipse for java based implementations.  ? Customized Touch UI slightly Text & Image Component based on the authoring requirements.  ? Configured and installation of AEM on the various development, production, QA and predevelopment servers.  ? Developed the architecture design for various web interfaces.  ? Integration with SQL server and store/fetch information from backend sub-system.  ? Reviews unit tests code changes prior to code submission.    Environment: Java, Python, Servlets, JSP, Eclipse, Adobe AEM 6.1, OSGi AEM Developer Hewlett Packard, Kansas November 2015 to November 2017 Hewlett-Packard Company (commonly referred to as HP) or shortened to Hewlett-Packard was an American multinational information technology company headquartered in Palo Alto, California. It developed and provided a wide variety of hardware components as well as software and related services to consumers, small- and medium-sized businesses (SMBs) and large enterprises, including customers in the government, health and education sectors.    Responsibilities:  ? Configured and installation of AEM on the various development, production, QA and predevelopment servers.  ? Study the existing architecture and create forms automation architecture by involving adobe experience manager functionalities.  ? Involved in listing out all the capabilities of AEM 6 and 6.1 and illustrate it on our business scenario use cases.  ? AEM 6.1 worked on form sets and utilized the maximum out of box functionalities.  ? Developed dynamic adaptive forms such way that one form could utilize for different application forms.  ? Developed the architecture design for various web interfaces.  ? Rendering the adaptive form as HTML for on the application.  ? Calling the forms automation engine using web services and API'S.  ? Designs and implements new functionality via leveraging Adobe experience manager forms as per specifications  ? Integration with SQL server and store/fetch information from backend sub-system.  ? Designs and develops robust and scalable software architecture.  ? Reviews unit tests code changes prior to code submission.    Environment: Java, Servlets, JSP, Eclipse, Adobe AEM 6, OSGi Java/CQ5 Developer WellCare - Tampa, FL October 2014 to October 2015 WellCare. WellCare provides managed care health plans primarily through Medicaid, Medicare Advantage and Medicare Prescription Drug plans for more than 4.4 million members across the country. The company partners with more than 407,000 contracted providers and employs more than 8,800 associates.    Responsibilities:  ? Assisted in designing, coding and testing of complex software applications.  ? Implemented procedures for creation and integration of applications on CQ5 core platforms.  ? Provided technical assistance for development and maintenance of web applications utilizing CQ5 CMS.  ? Executed processes for object model designing, implementation and unit test activities.  ? Supported technical team members in resolution of functional and technical problems pertaining to Adobe CQ5.  ? Participated in advising on business planning and execution functions for Adobe CQ5 systems.  ? Coordinated with clients for development of specifications to support content and collaboration solutions.  ? Developed Templates, Components using JSP, JavaScript, jQuery  ? Developed web and mobile applications along with effective designing and improvements.  ? Monitored program code to ensure compatibility with browsers, devices and operating systems.  ? Coordinated with software management and development teams for resolution of conflicts and content criteria.  ? Developed web applications in CQ5 systems in coordination with software development teams.  ? Participated in meetings related to application architecture, designing and development.  ? Supported technical team members in implementation and maintenance of iterative software development methods.  ? Implemented procedures for management of SDLC processes and relevant artifacts.  ? Provided technical assistance in creation and maintenance of program libraries and technical manuals Web/UI Developer September 2012 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Assisted in designing, creating and developing web portals.  ? Created graphics including Icons, Images and logos using Adobe Flash Catalyst.  ? Created appropriate concept models, site organization prototypes, navigation, page layouts and interaction.  ? Developed HTML prototype documents with CSS Style Sheets.  ? Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  ? Worked closely with the programmers for project requirement analysis.  ? Created new static model pages with cross browser compatibility features.  ? Created and implemented SQL Queries, Stored procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers in SQL Server.  ? Created required Views, Indexes and Clusters.  ? Designed report previews for PDF and Excel using SQL Stored Procedure.  ? Created triggers for calendar based database events.  ? Created packages to do complex aggregations on large volume of data and loaded the aggregated data into reporting tables in data marts.  ? Wrote UNIX shell scripts to automate the batch process.    Environment: HTML, DHTML, XHTML, DOM, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, Adobe Flash, Dreamweaver, PL/SQL and Oracle. Web/UI Developer HRD Services - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2010 to August 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Dynamic web site design and programming using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery.  ? Developed jQuery based calendar to schedule appointments.  ? Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery AJAX and JSON.  ? Developed interface to display report data using jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript and JSON, XML  ? Used various jQuery plugins like auto complete, date picker, color picker, document slider to enhance the usability, functionality and overall experience for website  ? Implemented pagination and sorting functionalities in different modules using jQuery plugins  ? Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  ? Using advanced level of jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  ? Used Firebug and IE Developer Toolbar for debugging and browser compatibility, cross-browser / platform testing and compatibility assurance  ? Using SVN for version control.  ? Participated in requirement gathering, coordinated with various development teams in code integration.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML, Adobe Dreamweaver, Eclipse, Apache HTTP Server, MySQL. Education Bachelors in Electronics and communication in engineering JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills ECLIPSE (4 years), JAVA (6 years), jQuery (5 years), HTML (6 years), JAVASCRIPT (5 years), Drupal, Hadoop, Cobol, AEM, Servicenow Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills    Languages: C, C++, JAVA, SQL, PL/SQL  Web technologies: HTML/DHTML/HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSTL, XML, Bootstrap, UML, EXTJs  Content Management: Workflow Manager, Adobe CQ5.6.1, Apache Jackrabbit, Apache Sling, Apache Felix Day CQ 5.5, 5.6.1  IDE: Eclipse 2.0, 3.0, 3.1, Spring  Java/J2e Technologies: Servlets, JSP, JDBC 4.0, AJAX, Web Services, SOAP, Restful  Frameworks: Jakarta Struts 1.2, 1.3, Spring 1.2, 1.3, 2.0, Spring MVC, Hibernate2.0,3.0  Application Servers: Web Logic 8.1, 10, JBOSS, WebSphere6.1, Apache Tomcat 6.1  Build Tools: Apache Ant, Maven 2.0, Jenkins  Version Control Tool: SVN, GIT  Logging Tool: Log4j