IT Manager IT Manager IT Manager Winter Garden, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Manager MaxLiving - Orlando, FL March 2018 to Present The IT Manager provides system implementation, administration, and development, as well as in-house technical support for MaxLiving clients and staff. The IT Manager work with Sales, Marketing, Finance and Customer Support departments to deliver the organization’s infrastructure footprint, allowing for corporate growth and scalability. The IT Manager is a self-motivated problem solver, who has a sense of urgency, is customer centric, and can collaborate in a team environment. Web Administrator Universal Parks and Resorts - Orlando, FL September 2017 to March 2018 Responsible for maintaining a various of software and content to ensure web store services were always online and functional.    Worked with technologies like SDL Tridion, Service Now, Ticket Wizard, and Gateway Galaxy to ensure they were always functional and made application and content changes as instructed by the business.    Collaborated with a variety of teams including Marketing, Product Implementation, and other departments of IT at Universal on a variety of projects to grow and expand the business.    Used existing knowledge on SDL Tridion (content management system) to build and maintain websites. This included version of Tridion 2011 and 2013. Email Marketing Specialist Walt Disney Parks and Resorts - Celebration, FL February 2017 to August 2017 Responsible for the production of email campaigns, deployment and reporting for the key stakeholders. The objective of this position is to build, deploy and report on email marketing initiatives in order to meet specific goals of our marketing strategy plans.    Pivotal member of a team for the Walt Disney Company designed to further brand outreach while maintaining brand integrity and business focus.    Worked with Adobe Campaign and Salesforce directly to create and deliver email campaigns to millions of guests around the world.    Directly managed Yahoo Gemini, Google Ad Words, Adobe Media Optimizer, and Bing Ads accounts and marketing ads. Web Designer/ Developer RIPLEY'S ENTERTAINMENT - Orlando, FL April 2016 to December 2016 Works with a team of designers and developers to maintain and operate the Ripley Entertainment websites such as Ripley Believe It or Not. Works with marketing team to develop assets for sales and marketing.    Integrated technologies like Google Analytics and Omniture to websites and online billing systems to track conversions.    Worked directly on digital marketing campaigns and with all 95+ attractions around the world to learn about local marketing techniques.    Improved site and online ticketing performance and techniques using language such as HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, and PHP. Web Designer/ Developer Vistana Signature Experiences - Orlando, FL February 2015 to April 2016 Works with an AGILE team to develop and expand the Starwood Vacation Network website and various other projects related to Front-end Web Development (UX/UI design).    Worked with a team of back-end and other front-end developers to create a new WordPress based theme for the transition from Starwood to Vistana using technologies like HTML, PHP, CSS, and MySQL.    Teamed up with the digital marketing team to create new reports and techniques to market to specific markets around the world.    Took information from multiple sources and combined it into an easy to use report via Microsoft Excel and Google Sheets. Email Marketing Specialist Provisions International, Inc - Miramar, FL March 2013 to February 2015 Maintains and operates the company websites and social media accounts. Maintains IT equipment at various office locations including internet, VOIP phones and web servers.    Designed and managed custom HTML, CSS, and PHP websites created for the company utilizing Adobe products like Photoshop and Dreamweaver.    Managed company-wide servers, voice over IP devices, computers, phones, and various other devices.    Created unique email marketing campaigns to be sent to suppliers and customers via Direct Mail and MailChimp services. Education BS in Multimedia Design and Development DeVry University-Chicago - Miramar, FL June 2008 to July 2012 Skills Adobe Creative Suite (10+ years), MailChimp (6 years), Salesforce (3 years), Adobe Campaign (3 years), AWS (3 years), Google Analytics (7 years), Omniture (7 years), HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Wordpress (10+ years), Lamp (7 years), SDL Tridion (3 years), ServiceNow (6 years), Gateway Galaxy (4 years), Git (4 years), IT Management (2 years), Strategic Planning (2 years), Network Administration (2 years), Vendor Management (4 years) Awards 2016 IAAPA Brass Ring Awards 2016-11 International Association of Amusement Parks and Attractions  Best Public Relations Campaign - Annual Attendance of More than 1,000,000 Assessments Management & Leadership Skills: Impact & Influence — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to adapt their leadership style to accomplish goals using rational or emotional appeal. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qsqj4co7oh-jdq-b Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.