Sr. Web/UI Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Web</span>/UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Web/UI Developer - Wal mart Labs Annapolis, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Web/UI Developer Wal mart Labs - Bentonville, AR September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developing an Intranet based web application for the Department of Workforce Development - State of Wisconsin.  • This project is about the billboards that are displayed road side and have to keep track of the people that are crossing a particular billboard.  • As a front end developer I have involved in developing the website for out-of-home.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Involved in web designing using HTML 5, XHTML, CSS 3, SASS, JavaScript and extensively used Table less design in CSS for positioning.  • Used Jenkins and Git Hub to build projects and to detect bugs and other issues.  • Experience in working on NOSQL databases such as MongoDB in000API leverage for user proximity lookups.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Angular js, React js.  • Participated in making Responsive Web Designs using Media Queries and Twitter Bootstrap.  • Worked onsite at the client place involved in the Build, Configuration, Deployment and Integration phases.  • Experience in writing custom node.js proxy code for the functionality of simulates API responses before client implementation was complete, and to proxy requests to finished client APIs.  • Developed the user interface for back office support and worked collaboratively in Agile scrum team on the design and development of application based MVC framework using Angular.js 2.0, HTML 5.0 and CSS3 and SASS.  • Used React js, Web pack and ES6 for Single Page Application development.  • Used XML Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  • Application backend implemented as node.js express application server.  • Worked extensively on applications to work properly on Android devices and all the browsers like Mobile safari, Desktop safari on Windows, IE, Firefox, and Chrome.  • Worked with Agile software lifecycle methodologies. Create design documents when and as required. Perform coding, debugging and testing.  • Developed data insertion forms and validated them using JavaScript.  • Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.  • Used grunt js for making the browser reload the page automatically for the code change on the machine during development. It will reload lively as it saves lots of time.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, MongoDB (NOSQL), JQuery, Angular JS, React JS, Web pack, Node JS, XML, Eclipse, SOAP, JSON, Bootstrap, ASP.NET MVC. Sr. Web/UI Developer ELAVON (US Bank Subsidiary Company) - Atlanta, GA September 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed, designed and implemented application based on Object Oriented JavaScript Analysis. Documented and communicated application design using UML diagrams like sequence diagrams, class diagrams,use case diagrams based on the requirement.  • Extensively involved in design discussions and user experience sessions to provide inputs on the layout.  • Created a custom, single-page, responsive web application to replace a line-of-business web application.  • Created reusable HTML templates and style sheets based on UI standards and guidelines.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like JavaScript, HTML5, and CSS3.  • Worked on building the responsive web pages using bootstrap.  • Implemented different validation control on the web-pages using AngularJS 1.7.  • Used Model View Controller (MVC) design pattern to decouple the code and to separate concerns.  • Developed Responsive Web Design pages for various applications compatible for Mobiles, Tablets, and Desktop.  • Made enhancements to existing CSS and DIV tags, made upgrades using Twitter Bootstrap model.  • Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop.  • Involved extensively in writing Use Cases and generated Class, Sequence diagrams for designing.  • Developed Interactive GUI Screens using JavaScript, iFrame, JQuery & Ajax.  • Developed Search Engine, Slider-Directives, Grids, Checkbox directives, and other functionalities using Angular.  • Extensive usage of $scope, ng-controller, ng-grid, ng-model.  • Built web pages that are more user-interactive using JQuery plugins, especially used JQuery plug-in for the tree construction.  • Performed POST requests in Ajax calls for JSON using AngularJS ($http, $resource).  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Ext.JS.  • Designed web user Interfaces using JSP, Servlets, XSLT, XML, DHTML and Adobe Flex.  • Involved in writing UNIX scripts in order to automate tasks.  • Filters were used for intercepting and modifying requests and response from server.  • Used Java Message Service (JMS) with IBM MQ Series for reliable and asynchronous exchange of data.  • Worked on Oracle 12c database in order to store and retrieve data.  • Performed UNIT and integration testing using Jasmine and in writing Test Cases on every new version before sending it for User Acceptance Test (UAT).  • Implementing the Design and developing modules using Agile Methodology. Planning iteration for effective design and development of the modules.  Environment:HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, AngularJS 1.7, Adobe Photoshop,AJAX, JSON, Oracle 11g/12c, IBM MQ, JUNIT. Sr. Web Developer HealthSouth - Birmingham, AL September 2014 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Gathering requirements from the end clients and created application design documents.  • Closely worked with business analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML5, and CSS3.  • Implemented different validation control on the web-pages using Knockout.js.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and developed custom validation controls with JavaScript and validated the code in different HTML versions like HTML 4.01, HTML5.  • Coded JavaScript and jQuery for page functionality, modal windows and to perform the client side validations.  • Implemented AJAX functionality using GET and POST requests in Ajax call of XML, JSON using JavaScript, jQuery.  • Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  • Worked closely with Photoshop designers to implement mock-ups and the layouts of the application.  • Implemented faster mobile-friendly applications using Twitter Bootstrap framework.  • SOAP UI was used for testing the web services.  • Used Java Script for binding form data with the Model Objects and server side and client side validation.  • Used JavaScript libraries to create slider and page-turning animations on calendar widgets.  • Developed data insertion forms and validated them using JavaScript.  • Used Backbone.JS for developing lightweight single page web applications and to achieve Synchronization.  • Create SQL, Stored Procedures, and triggers as per the requirement.  • Used SQL Server2008 R2as a Backend.  • Created web design solutions in compliance to W3C standards.  • Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS3-based page layouts.  • Performed Unit testing both manually and automated using JUNIT.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JAVA SCRIPT,KNOCKOUT.JS,BACKBONE.JS, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON, XML, SQL server 2008, Adobe Photoshop. Sr. Web Developer Zillow Group - Seattle, WA March 2012 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked in Agile and Scrum development environments.  • Effectively interacted with team members for requirements capture and Analysis.  • Responsible for Understanding the scope of the Project and Requirement gathering.  • Create web pages using Git, Github pages, JavaScript, CSS, HTML.  • Extensively involved design discussions and used experience sessions to provide inputs on the layout UX.  • Involved to create the User Interactive web pages in a professional manner using web technologies like HTML5 and CSS3 based on the W3C and ADA standards.  • Worked as a team member of developing cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Used HTML 5 and java script extensively in creating the user interface screens.  • Used the Ajax to make the service calls from the webpage using JQuery without performing a browser refresh.  • Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements were lagging.  • Implemented different validation control on the web-pages using JavaScript.  • Used LDAP protocol to administrate the user's data of a directory service.  • Worked with the QA team to fix the bugs, test the load, and performance checking.  • Performed Unit testing and E2E testing.  • Involved in creation of Test Cases for JUnit Testing.  • Performed the day to day analysis for issue tracking system.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, GIT, JQuery, AJAX, Usability Testing, Agile methodology, and Eclipse. Java UI Developer Northern Trust - Seattle, WA December 2011 to February 2012 Responsibilities:  • Working as Java developer involved in development of CEO Wire's web application based on MVC Framework.  • During Implementation of MVC Framework created JSP pages using WRIA framework.  • Implemented and validate Overlay using Java Script and Java code.  • Did analysis and research about backbonejs and implemented prototype in backbonejs on the profile page module.  • Using Ajax with JSON to asynchronously load data into JSP.  • Handlebars for HTML template.  • Developed DSB (Data Structure Bean) to capture values on UI.  • Create and Developed Action Handler and View Handler classes to integrate DSB with Service layer.  • Using SOAP based web services to communicate with other application like Envoy and wells Fargo Mobile application.  • Using SVN for version control.  • Using RAD as IDE and Web Server as application server.  Environment:Java 1.5, RAD, MVC Framework, Web Sphere 6.1, JSP, HTML 5, WRIA, Web Services, JSON, Back bone JS, Win Merge, Tandem. Senior Java Developer Atlanta Systems - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2009 to November 2011 India  Responsibilities:  • Played a key Role in driving the project throughout its entire course.  • Object Oriented Analysis and Design using UML include development of class diagrams, Sequence diagrams, and State diagrams and implemented these diagrams in Microsoft Visio.  • Designed and implemented JSP pages which serve as a View to the client.  • Developed all the handlers required for the new requirements.  • Configured WebSphere to connect to DB2 database and worked over the schema design for the application.  • Extensively wrote Java Scripts to enforce client side validations.  • Used the XML parser API's which was used to receive & send the trade validated XML tickets.  • Used the JDBC for database connectivity.  • Performed Unit Testing on individual modules.  • Used Log4j APIs for logging in the application.  Environment:Java 1.4, JSP, Java script, servlets, Struts 1.1, WebSphere AS 5.1, XML, HTML 5, DB2, Eclipse 3.0,CSS 3,Mongo db. Education management Santa Fe College July 2015 to August 2016 Skills CSS (6 years), Eclipse (5 years), Java (7 years), JavaScript (4 years), XML (5 years), Front End, UI, Angular, React, Front-End Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Web Technologies HTML4.0/5, CSS/CSS3, BOOTSTRAP,JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, ANGULAR JS 1.7/2.0,REACT JS, ASP.NET, AJAX,JSON and XML  IDEs MyEclipse 6.0.1, JBuilder 5, 2005, 2006, RAD, WSAD, Eclipse, Jdeveloper, Intellij-9.4.  Databases Oracle 10g/11g/12c , DB2 8/9 UDB, MySQL 3.x/4.1/5.0, SQL Server 2000/2005, MongoDB (NOSQL)  Platforms Windows 95/98/NT/2000/XP/Vista, Sun Solaris 9/10, IBM-AIX 5.2/5.3, Linux 5/6.  Languages: C,C++, JAVA, MySQL  Frond End Tools Dreamweaver CS5, FrontPage Wire frame, Adobe Photoshop CS5, Image Ready CS5 Fireworks, and Adobe Captivate 3.  Application Servers BEA WebLogic 8.1, IBM WebSphere 5/6, JBoss 4.0, Apache 5.5  XML Parsers SAX, JAXP.  Dist Object Mgmt RMI, SOAP, JCA, RUP, MQ Series 5.1, Message Broker.  Scripting Tools/GUI DWR, Adobe Flex.  UML Tools Altova, UModel 2006, MS Visio, Rational Rose, ClearCase, ClearQuest.  Design Patterns MVC, Session façade, Singleton.  Database Tools Toad for Oracle, Toad for SQL server.  XML Editors Altova XML Spy 2006, Edit plus.