Mobile Application/IOS Developer Mobile Application/IOS <span class="hl">Developer</span> Mobile Application/IOS Developer - Savant Systems LLC Hyannis, MA • An accomplished professional with over Seven years of hands on experience into the IT industry as a Software developer and close to five years of experience as an iOS application developer.  • An experienced and passionate Mobile Application/iOS Developer with almost Fiveyears of working experience in developing high performance consumer and enterprise level applications using iOS Software Development Kit (SDK) which includes XCode IDE, Xamarin studio, Objective-C and Swift, Cocoa Touch Framework, iPhone Simulators, etc.  • Excellent Cocoa/Cocoa Touch and Objective-C/Swift coding ability with XCode for iOS (iPhone/iPad) using Object Oriented Design Principles (OOD& OOP concepts).  • Interacted with SCRUM team developers, programmers, tester, product owners and stake holders to deliver right value of the project at the end of each sprint.  • Experience in Integrating Touch ID features for increasing application security.  • Experience in Web Services in .NET using XML and SOAP.  • Extensively used Angular 2 features like Directives, Filters, Two-way Data Binding, Services, Templates, Routing for building Single-Page-Applications.  • Developed a custom react dashboard with powerBI custom visuals. Dashboard includes  downloadable screenshots (via Typescript/HTML5 canvas) and adaptive visual resolutions (via  custom adaptive typescript architecture)  • Extensive experience in Native and Hybrid Mobile Application development with Social Media platform integrations such as Facebook, Twitter, and Google+ along with the creation of HTML/CSS files for iOS Message Controller to share URLs and formatted text.  • Experience in development of rich, user-friendly and cutting-edge UI designs that include multi-gesture responsive views, table view controllers, tab bars, navigation controllers using Storyboard. Created and customized views, table views, tab bars and navigation bars which are some basic functionality in a multi-view application.  • Experience in implementing Core Frameworks like UIKit, AVFoundation, Mapkit Core Location, Core Data and Core Graphic framework.  • Expertise in configuration and use of SVN for maintaining version control and source control tools like Git/GitHub, Source Tree.  • Strong conceptual knowledge and Implementation of Multithreading, Grand Central Dispatch (GCD) and NSOperation/NSOperationQueues.  • Actively involved in handling of memory management and analyzing performance using Xcode's Instrument.  • Good working experience in MVC and singleton design architecture, and other concepts like delegation, protocols and categories.  • Experience in using Restful web-services to provide connections to back end services and handling data using parsers with formats like JSON, XML.  • Expertise in storing data persistently in a number of ways that includes: CoreData, SQLite, PLists, Documents/Temporary directory, NSUserDefaults, Keychain, as well as cloud based with iCloud and Google Drive.  • Excellent interpersonal and communication skills, ability to work under pressure, prioritize and multi-task efficiently in a team setting or independently. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Mobile Application/IOS Developer Savant Systems LLC - Hyannis, MA April 2018 to Present Project Description: This mobile application is the third-generation app which gives consumer a faster access to scenes, services, and settings that let you change the atmosphere in any room with just a tap. The App also features a new look for lighting and climate controls, making it easier to use than its earlier version. With Savant Pro application, you can turn on your lights before you get home, coordinate your thermostats and window shades to save energy, and stream your favorite Sonos playlists to any room. Plus, you can view rooms at a glance to keep an eye on things from anywhere.    App Link:https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/savant-pro-8/id1095325838    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Collaborated with team member to identify business and customer requirements to help determine the initial design of the application.  • Implemented the entire screen designs decided upon according to the requirements.  • Developed a custom alert view with custom methods to show errors and messages with or without a progress bar, button options.  • Worked extensively on UITable, ViewController and created custom UITable, ViewCell according to the requirement specifications document.  • Used a VXG media Framework that would present a live camera view for recording videos and live media feed stored on server which users can retrieve later.  • Used 3rd party percentage chart, which drew a half circle filling from empty to 100% to show loading after login.  • Used AFNetworking 2.0 to connect RESTful API services and maintained background image downloads, uploads, chat conversations, and messages from system.  • Worked with Node.js as web server created a highly scalable server, creating non-blocking functions.  • Used CoreData in this application to handle persistent user information.  • Presented customized video from streaming YouTube link, switched to loading mp4 and playing a video with a flip animation on login screen.  • Used GData to interact with original internal API.  • Performed JSON parsing to convert JSON data into readable format.  • Used Local Notifications to message about app being logged out after certain amount of time.    Environment: iOS 11/12 and older support (Till version iOS 9.0), CoreData, Swift 3,4 ,4.2Objective-C 2.0, Xcode IDE 7, 8, Cocoa Touch, Mapkit, JSON, XML and Mac OS. Mobile Application/IOS Developer Charles Schwab - Charlotte, NC January 2017 to March 2018 Project Description:Charles Schwab is one of the largest brokerage firms which provides financial services to individuals and institutional clients through two segments: Investor Services and Advisor Services. One of their products "Schwab Advisor Mobile Connect" provide their clients with a customized, branded mobile app experience which their clients can easily download to their favorite devices. This mobile app allows independent advisors to establish a strong, mobile presence more quickly, easily, and at a fraction of the cost, it would take to build a new app. Schwab Advisor Mobile Connect can help elevate the brand and enhance their clients' experience while delivering the personalized services.    App Link:https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/beacon-trust/id1205551454?mt=8    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in doing AGILE practices, attending daily standup meetings and Bi-Weekly SPRINT retrospective meetings.  • Worked by base lining of agile methodology in every iteration change to be performed by me.  • Worked on the UI design part when the latest version was released, so transformed from the previous UI environment with enhanced features.  • Worked on Map Kit that retrieves nearby Bank locations, ATM Locations and displays opening/closing time along with some other additional features.  • Created models in MVC and implemented delegates for updating model information.  • Designed this application by keeping in mind of Multithreading, as this concept will enhance the app performance.  • Integrated Flurry analytics to log user activity in various screens.  • Developed applications for iOS using Xamarin forms to share average code between the cross platforms.  • Created custom checklist and sharing them with selected app users by calling web services through JSON libraries and connecting to SQLite database with the Objective-C interfaces.  • Worked with Swift, Objective C, and Cocoa Touch frameworks, which includes UIKit, Foundation, and UI Image Picker & UI Date Picker.  • Worked on Secured Authentications, used secureTextEntry to visually protect password entryand Authorization mechanism.  • Managed Open Source libraries using Cocoa Pods.  • Implemented SQLite database with Xamarin forms to save necessary information into device local database.  • Actively participated in code reviews and creation of various test cases using gherkin language.  • Worked on fingerprint-based security for this application that includes integrating Touch Id authentication for logging into applications.  • Implemented NSOperationQueues and NSURLConnection to integrate with backend web services.  • Integrated enhanced network module to handle better authentication and Network transitions. All the modules were implemented in Swift.  • Developed Navigation between views that were mixture of using UINavigationController,and UIGestureRecognizer.  • Worked on UIViews & UITableViews for creating interactive user interface of the application.  • Implemented auto layout feature to adapt interfaces to different rotations (Portrait and Landscape) and screen sizes for universal app.  • Implemented the scroll functionality by using UIScrollView on all screens of the app.  • Used third party framework for writing Unit tests and UITests for App stability and performance, along with XCTest framework.  • Changed user interface enhancements according to iOS 9 and 10 specifications.  • Designed and developed context sharing mechanism to support internal modules in project in Objective C.  • Successfully deployed the latest version (3.5) on Apple store.    Environment: iOS 9,10 iPhone SDK, Xamarin studio, Cocoa Pods, Swift 2,3,4, Objective C 2.0, Phone Gap, Xcode IDE 7,8,9, Cocoa Touch Framework, Storyboards, JSON, REST, Interface Builder, iPhone Simulator, JQuery. Mobile Application/IOS Developer State Farm - Bloomington, IL June 2014 to December 2016 Project Description: Pocket Agent gives mobile access to State Farm insurance and financial information and allows customers to manage their policies and accounts anytime, anywhere in the United States. This application gives State Farm customers access to insurance and financial information; helps locate services and report for an accident. If your auto policy is registered on statefarm.com, initiating a claim is just a few taps on your phone. Record the location, vehicle damage details, and driver information and even take pictures of the accident with your iPhone camera to submit along with your claim.    App Link:https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/state-farm-pocket-agent/id318142137?mt=8    Roles and Responsibilities:  • As an application developer, my role is to realize and develop the application and enable collaboration and coordination with other team members.  • Worked extensively on Multiview Applications and customizing like Table views, Navigation bar, and Tab Bar controller.  • Worked with Backend Developers to get final Designs for app interaction with backend services.  • Worked on Map Kit that retrieves nearby Hotels, Gas Stations, Taxi/RentalCars information's and displays it to the user.  • Extensively worked with XML and JSON inputs to pull the data from backend and display it on the app.  • Secured user credentials for better user interaction with the app.  • Worked with JSON web tokens for authentication and authorization security configurations using Node.js.  • Developed Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS Framework and injected generic services using Angular 2.0. Design all UI elements, wireframes, and comps with Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, and InDesign.  • Worked with blocks using GCD to maintain the concurrency.  • Worked with UIActionsheet, UITableViews, CustomCells, UIScrollViews, Navigation Controllers, delegates, protocols and UIDatePicker.  • Tested the application for memory leaks and relevant bugs, fixed the leaks and deployed on different iPhone firmware's to validate the application stability.    Environments: iOS 5/6 and 4.1(iPhone SDK), Mac OS X, Storyboards, Mapkit API, Angular 2.0,Objective C 2.0, Xcode IDE, Cocoa Touch, Adobe CS5 Suite (Photoshop, Dreamweaver). Web Developer Comcast August 2012 to May 2014 Description: CCOM is a robust Telecom Web application. This system deals with invoices, billing, premium, endorsement, renewal and receipt. It also deals with the vendor information according to client services as complete system generates different reports for their operations such as New Invoice, Premium, services and various summary reports.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in agile methodology for the complete application development.  • Involved in updating the pages using HTML 5 and CSS 3 for the new look and feel of their current application pages and worked on new CSS3 effects to enhance user experience as per the client requirements.  • Developed the application front end with HTML, JSP, Ajax, and Struts Tag-libraries.  • Developed user interface using additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Responsible for code optimization and testing across other browsers.  • Developed Presentation layer components comprising of JSP, AJAX, Struts Action, Struts Form Beans and AJAX tag libraries.    Environment: HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, XHTML, JSON, Ajax, version controls. Web Developer Nationwide Insurance - Columbus, OH January 2012 to July 2012 Description:Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company & Affiliated Companies is a group of large United States insurance and financial services companies based in Columbus Ohio. Nationwide is one of the largest insurances and financial services companies mainly focusing on domestic property and casualty insurance, life insurance and retirement savings, asset management and strategic investments.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing core modules like search content and content detail page.  • Enhanced search function delivers effectively trusted relevant content without long filters.  • Followed Agile methodology and used Rally to maintain user stories.  • Worked closely with BAT and QA team to fix the issues.  • Supported in System Testing and UAT and co-coordinated with the internal and external teams like Business, Rating.  • Used Google Analytics to keep track of the website logs and event logs that are triggered on the Sales Connect desktop page.  • Created custom angular directives and filters for filtering the data that we display on the web page.  • Worked with RESTFUL web services.    Environment: OO Design, JavaScript, HTML, CSS3, JQuery, JSON, JSONP, Ajax, SVN, MVC, and DOM. Education Bachelor's Kent, OH Skills Git, JAVASCRIPT, JSON, OBJECTIVE C, SVN