Net Developer Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Net Developer - Bank of America Chicago, IL ? 8+ years of experience in designing and developing collaborative solutions using various Microsoft Technologies.  ? Strong knowledge in Software Life Cycle process and development methodologies with strong expertise in building windows and web-based solutions.  ? Experiences in .Net Technologies include Object Oriented Languages (C#), Database (SQL Server), ADO.NET, VB.NET, MVC, WCF, WPF, MVVM, Server administrations (IIS) and other supporting technologies and tools.  ? Worked on ADO.NET Entity Framework to associate with database for CRUD operations and LINQ to Entities, Lambda Expressions, and OO Design Patterns.  ? Experience in Custom, Tabular, Matrix and distributed reports in multiple formats using Crystal Reports and SQL Server Services (SSIS, SSRS).  ? Very proficient in HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML and other web tools.  ? Experience writing Angular2/ 1.x code for developing Single page applications (SPA), used several in built.  ? language core directives, expressions and modules.  ? Experience in migrating Windows Applications developed in Visual Basic 6.0 and Active X to .Net  ? Experience in designing and developing SharePoint/Office365 apps, Pages, Web Parts utilizing the Client Side Object Model (CSOM).  ? Experience in Object Oriented Analysis and Design(OOAD) techniques like UML using Flow Charts/Process Flows, Use Cases and Class, Sequence, Activity and State Transition diagrams  ? Experienced and Knowledgeable in CMMI, Rational Unified Process (RUP), Agile Software Development, Waterfall cycle, Rapid Application Development (RAD) and Database & Test Driven Development (TDD) methodologies.  ? Knowledge in Application Blocks and Design Patterns, Microsoft Windows Communication  ? Experience in developing Web Applications using AJAX controls, Telerik Controls and cross browser functionalities and Web Services.  ? Experience in developing Internet Web Applications using Classic ASP (Active Server Pages).  ? Expertise in designing ASP.NET based GUI with CSS, JavaScript, ECMAScript, jQuery, AJAX, Multithreading, HTML, HTML5, Angular2/ 4/1.x, Micro services.  ? Extensive experience in developing and implementing XML Web Services using WCF, WPF, WSDL, UDDI, SOAP and LINQ.  ? Experience in using TFS for project source control management.  ? Experience in writing Stored Procedures, Functions, Views and Joins in SQL Server2005/2008.  ? Strong .Net skills and object oriented design experience, including working knowledge of core .Net libraries and WPF, WPF design patterns.  ? Experience in XML, XSLT, User Controls, Custom Controls, SOAP, WSDL, Web Services, Validation Controls, Authentications like windows authentication and forms authentication.  ? Experience in using Source Code Version Control Systems like MS Visual Source Safe (VSS) and TFS (Team- Foundation Server).  ? Experience in .NET technology using ASP.NET, Web Forms and Win Forms.  ? Experience in designing and implementing database-level T-SQL, Views, and SQL Queries. Work Experience Net Developer Bank of America - Chicago, IL March 2017 to Present Description: Bank of America is one of the leading company in developing web applications. In this project, we have developed an Access Request Management (ARM) Portal using ASP.net framework 3.5, used various types of Telerik objects such as Rad Date Picker\Panel Bar\Menu\Combo box\Grid to meet performance issues. In this ARM portal, we used to create new pages which give the Access to all Users around the World, and this is an internal project which includes around 9000 applications.  Responsibilities:  ? Participated in meetings with Business users and with other project teams to ensure that the volatile business requirements reflect in the project development.  ? Involved in complete Life Cycle including Analysis, Design, Development and Testing and followed Agile Methodology  ? Developed the application using ASP .Net, C#/VB.Net, SQL Server and SDLC on the visual studio IDE,  ? Designed and implemented User Interface Layer using ASP Net web forms.  ? Implemented the applications using MVC5 architecture.  ? Used T-SQL to include querying and making changes in the database, using functions and CRUD statements.  ? Also, worked on T-SQL to send the queries for the server irrespective of the UI of that application.  ? Also, worked on implementing the OOP's in the project.  ? Used Struts Tiles and Validator framework extensively in developing the applications. Worked on data binding as well as with HTTP service of AngularJS.  ? Involved in detecting changes to model objects and detect execution context for expressions by using AngularJS.  ? Created trigger events using UNIX and Perl to send email to project managers on high severity issues.  ? Used JavaScript and jQuery for client-side scripting to create highly responsive interfaces for users.  ? Implemented Ajax features of JavaScript to have the specific content loaded as per user needs.  ? Also, wrote Model Classes under MVC 4.0/5.0 using the principles of OOP's.  ? Created Restful services using ASP .Net Web API for exposing data to mobile device Involved in requirement gathering, analysis and documentation of assigned modules.  ? Used Web API to perform CRUD Actions since it works with HTTP verbs GET, POST, PUT and DELETE.  ? Maintaining a web application using IIS7.0.  ? Converted .Net application to Microsoft Azure Cloud Service Project as part of cloud deployment.  ? Deployed and designed pipelines through Azure data factory and debugged the process for errors.  ? Developed and consumed Web services.  ? Utilized AngularJS, NodeJS and Express framework to create dynamic data driven web pages.  ? Developed Views using HTML 5, CSS 3, JQuery and Bootstrap.  ? Worked on jQuery to implement customized behavior of the website.  ? Used SOAP protocol for accessing web-based services and communication between applications  ? Performed application development modules and activities.  ? Used ADO.Net for communication between the application and the SQL Server.  ? The ADO.Net Entity Framework was used for the object to database mappings.  ? Involved in System Unit Testing and Integration testing in development environment and ensuring application is per specifications.  ? Experience writing Angular2/ 1.x code for developing Single page applications (SPA), used several in built  ? language core directives, expressions and modules.  ? Involved in the designing phase of database and creating the SQL scripts.  ? Created HTML scripts using HTML 5 version to inculcate JavaScript data and to validate HTML/DHTML form's data that was submitted by the user.  ? Worked on Team Foundation Server    Environment: .Net Framework 3.5/4.0, MS Visual Studio .Net 2015, 3.5/4.0 Framework, Entity Framework, ASP .Net, C# .Net, Azure, UML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular2/ 1.x, jQuery, Bootstrap, Xml, LINQ, TFS 2012, LINQ to SQL, SQL Server 2012, Perl, IIS 7.0, Windows Server 2008. Net Developer Sears Holdings - Hoffman Estates, IL June 2015 to December 2016 Description: Sears Holdings is one of the largest companies across the globe. In this project, I worked with E- statement server, which provides the facility for the clients to view their statements, transaction history and merchant details. I was on boarded to work on production support, maintenance, and developed completely new module to this application.  Responsibilities:  ? Developed web based application using ASP.NETMVC3.0/4.0, Razor, C#3.0/2.0, WEB API, ADO.NET, WPFLINQ, JavaScript, DHTML, SSRS, SSIS, XML, XSLT, Web service, Entity Framework 4.3, WCF, IIS, TFS, SQL SERVER 2008/2005, VS 2012/2010, JQuery, AngularJs, Kendo UI Controls, Razor, Spring.Net, Telerik Reports, KendoUI/Telerik Controls (Gantt Chart, TreeViewControl, TabControl, Kendo Grid etc)  ? Implemented the project according to the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and programming by using fast paced agile methodology, involving task completion, user stories, and iterations.  ? Designed and developed rich and enhanced web pages using MVC 4.0, C#, Entity Framework, JSON, HTML 5, CSS 3 and JQuery, Angular js.  ? Development of various Modules using Designs using .NET C# and WPF.  ? Designed and coded WPF components used to collect, display and manipulate financial data.  ? Introduced and implemented Agile Methodologies such as Scrum, Extreme Programming (XP) and Test Driven Development (TDD).  ? Developed SharePoint forms using SharePoint Designer and validating with JavaScript.  ? Written JavaScript methods to create lists, libraries, adding columns and creating SharePoint Pages.  ? Extensive experience of Rational Unified Process (RUP), UML, XML, HTML, SQL and Stored Procedures.  ? Implemented abstract, sealed classes, interfaces and classes to construct the business and data tier using C# and Entity Framework.  ? Created DTS Packages using MS SQL. Implemented DBMS concepts in this project.  ? Developed the architecture with Model View Controller design pattern. Overridden default controller behaviors and implemented custom action methods.  ? Implemented HTML Helper MVC WebGrid with JQuery for boosting the pagination performance, and loaded the graphical data with JSON. Also supporting custom searching along with sorting the data with partial views.  ? Extensively used Asynchronous JavaScript Calls to do data processing.  ? Created WCF Service to retrieve and send information from client side without Post Back and consuming existing Web Services using SOAP, HTTP and WSDL.  ? Implemented Restful services HTTP Handlers in developing Web Service replication interface for setting up data feeds for content transportation in XML and JSON formats.  ? Worked on .NET Security features such as Authentication & Authorization, Forms-based Authentication, Authorizing Users, Roles and User Account Impersonation, tracing.  ? Used SSRS for developing reports for analyzing the inflow and outflow of different documents, tickets.  ? Used Bootstrap CSS model adaptability framework for styling the application.  ? Written SQL Scripts, for creating database tables with foreign key relationsin SQL Server 2008/2012 using T-SQL.  ? Designed and developed several SQL Server Stored Procedures, User defined Functions, Triggers and Views for all the DML functionality of the application.  ? Used Team Foundation Server for source control, data collection, reporting and project tracking.  ? Extensively used TFS Spring Templates and Maintained all the User Stories and Tasks in TFS.  ? Participated in various Client meetings with the team and the Project manager to discuss improvements/amendments in the development of the application.    Environment: .NET Framework 4.0, Visual Studio 2010, MVC 4.0, DTS Packages, DBMS, C# 4.0, Entity  Framework, SharePoint 2010/2013, WPF, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, XML, XSLT, JavaScript, Angular Js, SQL  Server 2008, TDD, SQL Server 2012, LINQ, T-SQL, TFS, IIS, HTML 5, CSS 3 Net Developer American College of Cardiology - Washington, DC April 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  ? Implemented the project using ASP.NET, Visual C# and the back-end database SQL Server 2008.  ? Analyzed client's requirements and involved in designing the GUI.  ? DevExpress Controls (WinForms, WPF)  ? Implemented input validations using .NET validation controls.  ? Developed personalized views using Themes and Master pages.  ? Generating DAL, BEL, stored procedures, triggers and views by using code smith.  ? Developing Business Services, Communication Services and workflow Services using Entity Framework generated by Code Smith.  ? Developing database design and server-side programming in MS-SQL Server 2008 using stored procedures, triggers, views and functions.  ? Effectively used ADO.NET components Data Reader and Dataset for manipulating data from the ? Extensively used Data Grid & Data Lists to display data returned from Server Database.  ? Effectively used the State Management techniques such as Session State, View State and Cookies.  ? Constructed multiple sub-sites, pages, and libraries with the deployment of the new SharePoint sites  ? Created user controls for headers and dynamic side menu using ASP.NET and C#.  ? Created User and custom controls to enable reusability and used rich server controls of ASP.NET.  ? Developing Business Services, Communication Services and workflow Services using Entity Framework  ? Designed dynamic ASPX web pages for the Application using ASP.NET, C#, XML, HTML and JavaScript.  ? Development of unit and integration test cases.  ? Developed Stored Procedures, Triggers and nested SQL queries  ? Migrated DTS packages using DTS editor wizard in SSIS, validated and tested all packages on development server.  ? Documentation for all kinds of reports and DTS and SSIS packages.  ? Generating Custom and Complex reports using SSRS  ? Analyzing the requirements and responsible for the raising the issues on the requirements to Business Analyst team.  ? Interacting with onsite coordinator and Clients to deliver the work in time.    Environment: VS2008, Enterprise Architecture (EA), .NET 3.5 framework, BizTalk 2009, TFS, DevExpress,  LINQ, WCF, WF, WPF, SQL Server 2008, Active Directory, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS. Net Developer Range Eye Technologies January 2012 to December 2013 Description: Range Eye Technologies is a leading provider of information technology services to clients across the globe. In this project, I worked as a junior .Net developer during my project, I have developed an application which provides details of health insurance to clients. It was a 3-tier application, developed various web services using WPF. Used front end client side technologies such as HTML5, CSS3 and ASP.NET 3.5 framework to design the presentation layer of the website  Responsibilities:    ? Designed the new architecture for the system, it involves understanding of old system, gathering the requirements, high level discussion and preparation of design documents.  ? Analysis the application with both user perspective and the performance perspective.  ? Prepared project technical specification documents with both high level and low level.  ? Develop the tools and application using ASP.NET 4.0, C#.  ? Participate in developing ipad integration.  ? Co-invented a competitive business process redesign software application called RangeEye, currently in use. This WPF-based Click-Once SaaS application utilizes a subscription-based revenue model and is being continuously enhanced, improved, and updated.  ? Wrote unit test cases for different scenario.  ? Involve in business level decision which involves discussion on existing system.  ? Mentoring the other team members.  ? Maintaining the existing system which involves enhancement of current system and bug fixing.  ? Designed and developed reusable web service components.  ? Done the enhancement in existing web services.  ? Gathered Requirements from the business users and worked with them to set the specification and design of the application.  ? Created queries, stored procedures in SQL Server 2008.  ? Created webservices to implement business functionality using VS.Net 2010 and consumed  Services from Asp.Net web application.  ? Used Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) Service for Business Logic Layer.  ? Extensive use of Infragistics and Telerik controls to develop the web UI for the application.  ? Assist the team members for technical difficulties and decisions.  ? Done the Application deployment and wrote deployment routine.    Environment: ASP.NET, C#, WCF, WPF, Web Services, Entity Framework, Visual Studio 2010, SQL Server Web Developer Spime India Technologies Pvt Ltd - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2010 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Gathered requirements. For better understanding of the system, visited some pilot villages  selected by DFID.  ? Involved in analyzing the requirements.  ? Translate business requirements into technical specifications and code implementation.  ? Designed and developed ASPX Pages with C# as Code behind in VisualStudio.NET.  ? Used ADO.NET technology to connect to database and Involved in writing Stored Procedures and queries.  ? Involved in designing the databases using SQL Server 2005 and MS-ACCESS  ? Imported Data from MS-Access to Sql Server using DTS and Involved in code reviews, Education Bachelor's Skills C# (7 years), MS SQL SERVER (7 years), SQL (7 years), SQL SERVER (7 years), .NET (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages & Database: VB.Net, C#.Net, C++, T-SQL, PL-SQL, SQL Server 2008/2005 and Oracle 11g/10g/9i.  .NET Technologies: .Net Framework 4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0, ADO.NET, ASP.Net AJAX, WCF, WPF,ASP.Net MVC, SOAP, SOA, LINQ, WSDL.  Web Technologies: ASP.NET, HTML, XHTML, DHTML, SharePoint, CSS, Angular2/4/1.x, VB Script, Java Script, JQUERY, XML, Web Services.  Reporting Tools: SQL Server Reporting Services, Crystal Reports  Version Controls: Visual Source Safe 6/20055, Team Foundation Server  IDE Tools & Web Servers: Visual Studio 2013/2012/2010/2008, IIS 7.0/6.0/5.0