Data Analyst Data Analyst Aspiring data scientist and Software Developer. Austin, TX Mathematics graduate experienced in programming and analytics seeking a full-time position that provides the opportunity to utilize and grow my knowledge and experience in data analysis / science and web / software development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Analyst Merck - Austin, TX January 2019 to May 2019 ?     Analyzed over 3000 rows of the Jackson Heart Study Data using algorithms like correlation and random forest.  ?     Computed and interpreted correlation between socioeconomic and environmental factors of cardiovascular diseases.  ?     Utilized pandas and NumPy for data manipulation and Matplotlib for data visualization IT Technician Huston-Tillotson University - Austin, TX May 2016 to May 2019 • Resolved the slow internet issue on campus by installing more wireless access points (Wi-Fi) to increase the broadband of the wireless network for student to get faster internet.  • Diagnosed, repaired and maintained hardware and software components to ensure the usability.  • Upgraded the entire systems to enable compatible software on all computers.  • Provided support to users and being the second point of contact for error reporting using ticketing systems. Web Developer Texas Commission on Environmental Quality - Austin, TX June 2018 to August 2018 ?     Utilized HTML, CSS, Bootstrap to designed, built, and improved web pages for the water quality division that helped engineers understand rules better.  ?     Website helped the plans and specification team at TCEQ to review and approve more waste water specification.  ?     Utilized python for data cleaning, that improved accurate information, resulting to fewer errors for Waste permit team. Education Bachelor of Science in Mathematics Huston-Tillotson University May 2019 Skills Desktop Support (3 years), It Specialist (3 years), Information Technology (3 years), Help Desk (3 years), Microsoft Office (3 years), Python (1 year), C++ (1 year), HTML (2 years), CSS (2 years), Javascript (Less than 1 year), Data Analysis (1 year), Software Development (Less than 1 year), Computer Repair (4 years), Graphic Design (4 years), Web Development (2 years), Web Design (1 year), Excel, access, testing, Excel, MS Office, Powerpoint, access Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/osahumen-aghasomwan http://www.github.com/uyito