ECOMMERCE/ WEB DEVELOPER - FREELANCE ECOMMERCE/<span class="hl">WEB</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> - FREELANCE WORDPRESS - ECOMMERCE - WEB DEVELOPER Remote Together with my background as a journalist, I feel I bring a unique perspective and an added bonus to WordPress Design and Development. By combining smart user interface design with professional content and clean, organized code, my skills will be an asset to any project or team. I am passionate about solving challenging problems, meticulous about my work and constantly striving to perfect my craft.    If I Don't Understand It, I Can Find The Answer - If I Don't Know It, I Can Learn It Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ECOMMERCE/ WEB DEVELOPER - FREELANCE WORDPRESS September 2016 to Present • 7+ years of professional experience in WordPress, PHP, Web application development including Client/Server with proficiency in web technologies and web designing tools.  • Evaluated and implemented new programming languages and technologies. Provide life-cycle management for software and code.  • Implemented and maintained content management systems (primarily WordPress, some Drupal), including installation, configuration, troubleshooting, and creation of custom SLS plugins and content types. Develop and deploy upgrade/migration plans for content management systems.  • Developed and deployed web applications and client-side web interface components that interact with relational database management systems that integrate with web standards, authentication, and authorization infrastructure.  • Built, implemented and managed web-based applications, databases, and interfaces from initial architecture through development, test, and deployment.  • Designed, coordinated, and debugged integrations, components, and infrastructures to run enterprise class websites.  • Good knowledge of Responsive Web design using Custom CSS and Bootstrap.  • Extensively utilized the backbone.js, JSON, jQuery and JavaScript frameworks.  • Excellent knowledge of PHP programming, including OO, procedural, and data structures.  • Back-end custom development and maintenance of websites using PHP and MySQL.  • Solid knowledge of SOAP and Restful web services.  • Experienced on LAMP & WAMP. (Windows, Apache, MySQL and PHP) architecture.  • Experienced in MySQL database design and development in writing Stored Procedures, Constraints, Indexes and Views.  • Experienced in Installation, Integration, and Configuration of third-party tools, i.e. Google Analytics, APIs and Plugins.  • Developed custom theme templates, custom plugins and custom widgets. WORDPRESS DEVELOPER/CONTENT DEVELOPER - FREELANCE WORDPRESS December 2010 to 2015 • Responsible for the architecture, design and development of high-volume web service applications.  • Performed object-oriented development.  • Deadline-focused, detail-oriented, well organized and self-motivated.  • Tested and debugged to ensure websites functions properly for SEO and SEM as well as the proper display of data.  • PHP and HTML development outside of WordPress for landing pages, microsites, etc.  • Utilized JavaScript frameworks to implement website functionality.  • Managed technical integration with third party services.  • Ensured cross-browser, cross-platform, and multiple device type compatibility for all web solutions and performed any necessary QA on finished products.  • Monitored uptime, hosting, and databases to ensure sites are performing at maximum capacity.  • Development expertise with custom post types, custom fields, plugins and themes for high-traffic WordPress sites. Education Web Design and Development University of Phoenix Skills Bootstrap. (5 years), JavaScript (7 years), jQuery (5 years), MySQL. (3 years), PHP (7 years), Drupal, Wordpress (9 years), Word Press, Website, MYSQL, HTML5, CSS3, HTML5, Word Press, CSS3, MYSQL, Website Links http://www.carolebacon.com/