UI/ Web developer UI/<span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> UI/ Web developer - Wells Fargo Bank Charlotte, NC, NC Work Experience UI/ Web developer Wells Fargo Bank - Charlotte, NC May 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Used the functionalities for writing code in HTML5, CSS, AngularJS, JavaScript, JQUERY, Ajax, JSON, and Bootstrap with MySQL database as the backend.  ? Developed UI using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JavaScript validations and XML.  ? Worked extensively with the file management and image libraries. De-bugged web browser using Firebug.  ? Extensively involved in developing front-end web pages using Java Script, HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS.  ? Designed the Custom objects pages, Components, Visual Force Pages to suit to the needs of the application.  ? Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on record pages.  ? Converted Wire Frames to HTML prototypes.  ? Led the efforts of quality of merchant web development group for live-to- site code, release achieved Zero defect.  ? Prepared the business report with the help of Wire Frames.  ? Assisted UI leads and product manager with concept designs and implementation of prototype for new and undeveloped features that allowed customer representative team to track customers instant payment notifications reports.  ? Acted as a liaison between User Experience team and Payflow Pro web development team.  ? Involved in the implementation of open- source web application frameworks like Bootstrap and AngularJS.  ? Led the project of the Pay flow Manager from concept to detailed design phase; prepared and presented design progress updates to executives in Merchant team.  ? Worked with the User Experience team and product managers to identify and design features to enhance the usability of Merchant products.  ? Involved in writing the properties, methods in the Class Modules and also developed web services using HTTP.  ? Used Bootstrap front-end framework for faster and easier web development.  ? Experienced in all phases of UI/UX implementation of a Travel Search and Booking web application including Design, Prototyping, and Development and testing phases.  ? Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles for all new CSS that was implemented.  ? Developed AEM components and templates.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, Angular.Js, Backbone.Js AEM, Usability Testing, nginx, Bootstrap, Brackets, grunt, bower, node.js, react.js, npm, Visual force. Web/UI Developer Anthem - Norfolk, VA June 2014 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Worked with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  ? Responsive design approach using HTML5 and CSS3 to support device integration.  ? Created Visualforce pages as per the client requirements and customizing Partner portal using various components.  ? Worked on front-end pages that were developed in a professional manner using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, and JQUERY.  ? Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML5 and CSS3.  ? Created detailed Wire Frames & process flows.  ? Used S-controls, to develop and display custom HTML in a detail page or custom tab.  ? Developing templates in AngularJs for multiple screens.  ? Created and deployed new features of the website and made it compatible with mobile devices using Sencha Touch and Sencha Architect.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, YAML and XML.  ? Handled all the client side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation using JQUERY.  ? Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML5, XHTML, and CSS3 based on the W3C standards.  ? Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using client side scripting using JavaScript.  ? Experience with all levels of operation available to the front-end, such as from creating XHRs in vanilla JS to using a custom wrapper around $resource.  ? Implemented the portal using SDL Tridion as the content management system.  ? Experience in building responsive websites using bootstrap, foundation, pure, skeleton, Gumby.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON, YAML, XML, PHP, APACHE, Angular.Js, react.js MAC OS, ECLIPSE, SVN. Java UI/UX Developer Bank Of America - Concord, MA June 2013 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Developed jQuery plugins for re-usability, which are cross-browser compatible.  ? Worked on Single Page Application (SPA) web application development approach.  ? Styling pages with CSS3.0 and developed JavaScript for user interfaces.  ? Implemented JavaScript source code, embedded nested handling logic using jQuery event handlers and call back functions.  ? Used Selectors, Events, Ajax and DOM Manipulation modules in jQuery for updating content on DOM nodes.  ? Experience with working in JavaScript framework like jQuery, AngularJS.  ? Developed the use cases and class diagrams using Rational Rose UML.  ? Experienced on implementing Rich Internet Applications i.e., RIAs using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, jQuery UI, AJAX and JSON.  ? Implemented various $scope methods $watch (), $digest () and $apply () in order to implement two-way data-binding by using AngularJS.  ? Implementation of components and wire-frames using cross-browser compatible CSS, JavaScript, JQueryandAJAX, Angular JS.  ? Created different Ext JS Custom Components/User Extensions for re-usability.  ? Worked on Custom Ext JS Theme implementation using Sencha Cmd and Sass.  ? Performed Client-side validations using JavaScript.  ? Fixed bugs and provided support services.  ? Designed user friendly navigation to display various sections of data using jQuery.  ? Created Dynamic Web Pages with Web Controls and developed forms with HTML.  ? Integrated UI with server side RESTful web services using Ajax calls.  ? Developed jQuery callback functions to implement asynchronous communication using AJAX.  ? Used Spring MVC, Spring IOC to build the application and handled Object Relational Mapping in integration with Hibernate.  ? Written Spring components like Controllers, Validators, Resource Mappings, Session Attributes and Model Attributes using annotations and used URL mappings to handle the requests and present clients to customized view by using different view templates.  ? Developed RESTful and SOAP Web services using JAX-RS and JAX-WS.  ? Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.  ? Fixed the bugs by working in Application Support phases.  ? Tested/Debugged the applications in web browser using Firebug.    Environment: HTML, CSS, Sass, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, jQuery UI, jQuery Mobile, Ext.JS, react.js, RESTfull Web Services, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Hibernate, XML, JSON, SVN, Eclipse, Tomcat Software Developer GVK Industries October 2011 to January 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Development of new features within the applications, fixing defects  ? Write programs to maintain and control application systems  ? Responsible for creating the software platform and then fine-tuning the final program after it has been made.  ? Modify existing software to correct errors, to adapt it to new hardware or to upgrade interfaces and improve performance  ? Design and develop software systems, using scientific analysis and mathematical models to predict and measure outcome and consequences of design  ? Advise customer about, or perform maintenance of software system.  ? Coordinate installation of software system; Monitor functioning of equipment to ensure system operates in conformance with specifications  ? Analyze information to determine, recommend and plan installation of a new system or modification of an existing system.  ? Actively participated in setting java coding standards and writing related documentation.  ? Preparing low level design document.  ? Analyzing the customization requirement and to determine whether it is CR or New Feature while handling customizations.  ? Had implemented Apache POI for XLS upload and download.  ? Implemented SAX parser for XML processing.  ? Changing the original code to provide enhanced functionality and unit testing local server, creating and delivering the deploy-able release to the testing team.  ? Provided post implementation support    Environment:  JSP, Servlets, Java 1.4, XML, Oracle10g, Weblogic, Eclipse Java/ Web Developer Lakshmi Technologies May 2010 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Developed the App using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Servlets. Deployed the application in Tomcat.  ? Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  ? Wrote application level code to perform client side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  ? Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  ? Using advanced level of jQuery, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  ? Wrote jQuery function while implementing various UI Screens across the whole web application (both consumer facing as well as internal application)  ? Interacted with java controllers (jQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems)  ? Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  ? Define technical requirements based upon business requirements.  ? Strong communication, analytical and interpersonal skills working within cross-functional teams.  ? Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Oracle, spring, Servlets, JSP, Windows. Education Bachelor's Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages Java, J2EE, JSP, JMS, JDBC, Struts, Spring, python, C#  Development Tools Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop. Visual Studio, Eclipse-3.2.1, Notepad++.  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, XML, DHTML, XSLT, Ajax, JQuery, JQuery UI, Responsive WebDesign, JSON  JavaScript Libraries Angular.js, D3.js, React.js, Ext.js, Node.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Sencha Touch  IDE's and Tools Eclipse IDE, NetBean, Dreamweaver, EditPlus, Webstrom, Tatastrom, Sublimetext, Brackets  Server Apache, IIS, Tomcat 5.0, ngnix  Debugging Tools Firebug, IE Developer Toolbar, Firebug Lite, Chrome or Safari web inspectors.  Version Control Perforce, CVS, GIT, SVN  Databases MS SQL Server 2000/2005, MySQL, and Oracle, MongoDB  Operating System Windows 2000/XP/Vista, UNIX, LINUX, MS-DOS, Mac OS X