Customer Service Rep/Sales Customer Service Rep/Sales Customer Service/Sales Texarkana, TX • U.S. Navy Veteran and college graduate resuming my career. I have been off work talking care of my disabled mother. I am now seeking gainful employment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Customer Service Rep/Sales LawnStarter - Austin, TX June 2019 to Present Customer Service Agent answering phones to facilitate new customer sign up. Duties include answering any questions prospective customers have and assisting with the sign up process. .net developer Inhouse Associates - Longview, TX March 2016 to February 2017 Designing web solutions and software applications using visual basic and c#. Maintaining current web sites and developing elegant solutions for new client projects. WEB DEVELOPER ENCORE MULTIMEDIA June 2015 to June 2015 Two week contract using Drupal CMS to convert one of their existing websites from a static website to Drupal. This was rebuilding the website using Drupal, including using SASS preprocessor. WEB DEVELOPER DMP INVESTMENTS May 2014 to June 2015 Building and maintaining public facing websites for retail, e-commerce, and financial markets. Writing business software, including financial software. Developing software solutions to automate repetitive tasks. Troubleshooting software and website problems, then deploying solutions based on that troubleshooting. Responsible for taking all product images for the retail website, utilizing and maintaining a small photo studio in the warehouse. MECHANIC KWIK KAR January 2012 to October 2012 Performed multiple types of automobile repair work. Duties included under hood inspections, oil changes, lower bay work, and various auto repair related duties. FORKLIFT DRIVER MICROMETL July 2010 to October 2011 Certified forklift driver, Material Handler, Shipping/Receiving, Order Pulling, and other misc. duties as needed. Ensure that material needed for production is stocked on production lines. Pulling and shipping orders via UPS Worldship.. Ensuring that Inventory is stocked properly, and that inventory counts are accurate. Loading and unloading trucks and completing LTL (Less than Load) shipments OWNER/MANAGER GAGE & STEVENS ROOFING AND CONSTRUCTION April 2008 to June 2010 Commercial and Residential Roofing and remodeling, Supervising 4 - 6 employees, Payroll, Inventory Control Education ASSOCIATE OF APPLIED SCIENCE in Computer Technology & Information Systems TEXARKANA COLLEGE May 2015 Skills C#, .Net, Customer Service, Call Center, CSR, Customer Care Military Service Branch: US NAVY Service Country: United States Rank: E-3 August 1993 to November 1996 Certifications/Licenses 16 week customer service program August 2018 to Present Client to Work Program at Randy Sam's Outreach Shelter. 16 week customer service program providing office support, client evaluations, administration of federal assistance program surveys, phone support, and other office duties. Assessments Problem Solving — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dwgglmebeknovo00 Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient May 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fmsvshwnquuiczfo Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Groups Randy Sam's Outreach Shelter Board of directors January 2019 to Present Active member of the board of directors at Randy Sams Outreach Shelter, which is a non-profit organization. Additional Information Skills & Abilities  • Using HTML 5 & CSS 3 for website design.  • Working knowledge of PHP, C++, and JQuery, Visual Basic  • Responsive design including knowledge of Bootstrap  • API Integration  • Using Git flavored Version Control  • Creating and Using MySQL databases