Sr. Software Developer Sr. Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Software Developer - RCIS, Zurich Minneapolis-Saint Paul, MN • Microsoft .Net Developer around 5+ years of experience in various phases of project life cycle.  • Expertise in best practice methodologies, coding standards and knowledgeable across multiple application  structures and database technologies.  • Experienced in Agile Scrum methodology including Grooming, Planning, Retrospectives and Stand-ups.  • Equipped with adaptive thinking, problem solving, quick learning and good communication skills.  • Strong Object Oriented concepts and debugging skills. Work Experience Sr. Software Developer RCIS, Zurich - Anoka, MN November 2018 to Present Description: RCIS is providing the crop insurance, offer a variety of hail, named peril, supplemental and stand-alone  insurance products as well as multi-peril insurance policies offered through the United States Department of Agriculture's  Risk Management Agency.    Project Participation:  • Designed and built new features for an existing .net web applications using ASP.NET 4.0, MVC 4, Razor, C#, VB.NET, JQuery, Ajax, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Angular, Entity Framework and LINQ.  • Extensively worked with making calls to WEB APIs to fetch the data from the back end as JSON response and parse  it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation.  • Called the Restful web service calls for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods and test it using Postman tool.  • Designed and supported REST services and web applications native to DB2.  • Build scheduler task to send daily emails to agent with rich html and wrote complex union SQL query to fetch the data from the database table. Sr. Application Developer C# State of MN - Saint Paul, MN April 2017 to November 2018 Description: Minnesota Sex Offender Program (MSOP) is a part of the Minnesota Department of Human Services (DHS) which provides treatment to the clients enrolled in the program. The Phoenix application built using .Net technology is  used as the client management tool to track and report all the phases, progress and behavior involved during the clients'  treatment while enrolled in the MSOP program.  Project Participation:  • Built new module (Behavioral Expectations) into the application to track and report clients' behavior to DHS using  Agile Scrum methodology.  • Used Asp.Net C#, MS SQL, Web Services for developing new pages, user controls, stored procedure, view etc. for the implementation of the module.  • Built several AJAX smart search controls with intellisense for textboxes to assist in quick filter and search of client  records.  • Built user controls with dynamic collapsible accordions using JavaScript and JQuery to provide the user with rich UI  experience and support printing of multiple records from one page.  • Worked with SSRS & SSIS for providing comprehensive reporting functionality for variety of data sources.  • Implemented both client and server side validation functionality across the new module and upgraded the existing  functionality in the rest if the application. Sr. .Net Developer State of MN, Management and Budget Department - Saint Paul, MN June 2016 to April 2017 Description: The objective of the Appropriation Maintenance Application (AMA) project was to build a centralized, web- based system to collect appropriation entries and edits from state agencies, record approvals by agency and MMB staff, and create files for upload to the state accounting system, SWIFT, and the state budget system, BPAS.  Project Participation:  • Designed, documented and architected the AMA to meet and exceed the business expectations using the response  from the business and technical team meetings.  • Built the AMA from scratch using Asp.Net, VB.NET, ADO.NET, PL/SQL and Oracle database.  • Designed and built ADA compliant responsive UI screens using Swing, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  • Followed Agile Scrum methodology for the duration of the project life cycle starting from the design to the delivery  of the project. Writing Gherkin statements and AAT (features and steps files) for stories. Web Developer MicroVision Solutions February 2016 to August 2016 Description: MicroVision Solutions provides advanced information technology solutions and consulting services to a host of corporate clients in various industries in market. The Employee Claims application is used to request, track, approve and  reject monetary claims received by the HR department from the employees.  Project Participation:  • Enhanced and developed the web application using JAVA, Spring Boot, J2EE (JSP, servlet), MySQL, Swing using  MVC Pattern and Hibernate ORM giving it ability to track, approve and reject the claims received.  • Improved the stability and performance of the application by fixing various development and existing production  issues using active bug tracking technology. Software Developer Digip Technologies - Ahmedabad, Gujarat September 2013 to October 2014 Description: Digip Technologies provides consulting as well outsourcing services across the globe. They develop custom  based software, provide support, maintenance and migration for existing software.  Project Participation:  • Developed vSoft, vSOFTMLBAMStats apps for ANCSPORTS using C#, WPF, SQL Server and WCF RIA Services.  • Built custom web service to consume player score stats XML data and generate output to feed the responsive WPF  UI as per business request.  • Upgraded the real estate management application (ITSMobile) to give it the ability to store and manage additional  property data using C#, Asp.Net MVC Razor as a front-end and SQL server as the backend.  • Enhanced the VisualSI ZIServer application to add new screens for Zone Administrator using Asp.net, C#, SQL  Server, Web services and increased the stability by fixing existing code defects. Junior Web Developer Shreeji Infosoft - Vadodara, Gujarat February 2013 to August 2013 Description: Shreeji Info Soft is an emergent web & graphic design company that focuses on developing innovative web & graphic solutions. The Order Portal application was designed to function as an internal portal to place customer orders  received over the phone or in-person.  Project Participation:  • Assisted senior developers in building custom web application using Asp.Net, C#, HTML, CSS and SQL Server.  • Took up the responsibility to develop dynamic web pages and database tables, views and stored procedures as per  the guidance received from the senior members.  • Implemented role identity authentication and authorization using ASP.NET Membership Provider to prevent  unauthorized application access. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Northwestern Polytechnic University 2015 to 2016 Bachelor of Technology in I.T. in I.T Rajasthan Technical University 2008 to 2012 Skills AJAX, ASP, CSS, DREAMWEAVER, IIS