Sr. PHP/ Drupal Developer Sr. PHP/ Drupal <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. PHP/ Drupal Developer - US Coachways Holmdel, NJ • Experience in PHP, Drupal, LAMP, WAMP, WordPress, Zend, Laravel, CodeIgniter, CakePHP Frameworks.  • Extensively used JavaScript, JQuery, Asynchronous JavaScript and XML (AJAX) technologies to build dynamic web contents with high performance.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using PHP, MySQL, HTML 5, XML, CSS, DHTML, XHTML, JavaScript, Jquery, JSON, DOJO, YUI and AJAX technology.  • Experienced in Web Form creation, sending email and saving data into the database Drupal 7 & 8  • Extensive experience with Content Management Tools such as Drupal 7&8 and Joomla.  • Expertise in React JS framework to develop the SPA.  • Streamlined website development by migrating to Acquia's Drupal hosting service.  • Strong knowledge in using Object Oriented Programming concepts as well as full working knowledge of DOM.  • Excellent work done in writing queries, stored procedures, triggers and functions in MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle, DB2 etc.  • Solid experience with UNIX/Linux, Python, MVC, Subversion, CVS, Git, Zend, CakePHP, CodeIgniter, Symfony Framework, and LAMP toolset.  • Familiarity with large multi-server Drupal environments, administration, and integration with various third-party sites with open APIs.  • Experience in content management systems like Drupal, WordPress to perfectly suit the client's requirements.  • Expertise in Photoshop, and IDEs like Eclipse, Dream Weaver.  • Extensive experience in working on Manual Testing Methodologies like Agile-SCRUM, Waterfall Methodology.  • Demonstrated experience using Grails Framework for development of web applications.  • Strong analytical, problem solving and debugging skills with excellent understanding of system development metrics, techniques and tools.  • Working experience with MySQL which includes configuration, query optimization, full-text search indexing and de-normalization Expert in handling the administration of MySQL database using PhpMyAdmin.  • Experienced in programming solutions based on the Angular.js and Bootstrap.js.  • Solid experience with Model View Controller (MVC) architecture based Web Application Development.  • Solid experience with security aspects of website such as SQL injections etc.  • Solid experience in Relational Database Management System (RDBMS) design, programming, normalization and security administration with MySQL, Oracle11g.  • Familiar and working experience with NoSQL Database Design, Analysis and Development like MongoDB.  • Worked with Ubuntu server / Linux command line. Experience with integrating APIs - Google Analytics, Google Maps etc.  • Experienced in web and mobile testing using emulators, browser like Safari, Chrome, Firefox & IE 10.  • Experienced in using Testing tools like log4jan JUnit and building tools like Ant and Maven.  • Experienced in Installation, Integration and Configuration of third party tools, Content Management System (CODEIGNITER, Smarty).  • Ability to communicate on various levels with advertisers, artists and corporate clients.  • Excellent troubleshooting & problem solving skills with Client-Server Applications & Web Application. Work Experience Sr. PHP/ Drupal Developer US Coachways - Holmdel, NJ June 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed PHP, Drupal, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, node.js ecommerce application pages according to project requirements.  • Migration of Drupal 7 to 8 version and involved in developing new features as enhancements.  • Created custom Drupal 8 modules using PHP.  • Exposure to Acquia Cloud Platform  • Code, create modules and edit templates in Drupal Acquia and WordPress.  • Experienced in working with onshore hybrid models.  • Worked on Extensible MVC implementation supporting layouts and PHP-based templates by default and accessing properties on OOPS with Laravel and WordPress framework.  • Developed Contact Fill Application using Drupal and installation and integration of the Application online.  • Using three kinds of database Granite Database, Oracle, MySQL. Using Ossapi and ASI web service to connect with client directly.  • Identifying and solving issues caused by plugins or feeds under PHP, MYSQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery Technology.  • Used node.js application built using Vue.js as the front-end framework.  • Modifying PHP, HTML, CSS, Java Script, and jQuery according to project requirements.  • As a developer involved in design and developing websites using PHP, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML4/5, AJAX, MySQL and MongoDB.  • Worked with PHP, MYSQL, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX and XHTML to build a fully Web 2.0 compliant networking website.  • Involved in the development using Drupal and PHP.  • Maintaining User groups with Drupal CMS.  • Implemented AJAX and JQuery on Front-End to make the web page more dynamic.  • Work with teams in designing and developing server optimization techniques like caching, output stream compression, Memcache, Drupal module updates and releases etc..,  • Used SMTP mail class of PHP for the users to send mail with suggestions. Extensive use of PHP Mailer class.  • Developed/Design the application using WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL5, and PHP architecture).  • Worked with Symfony, design patterns like singleton pattern, registry pattern and model -view-controller pattern in Zend framework.  • Used the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications.  • Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop.  • CMS systems using CodeIgniter and Laravel frameworks.  • Developed user interface using PHP, CodeIgniter, NOCMS, Bootstrap, AJAX, JQuery, HTML, and CSS.  • Developed Configurable shims for modular JavaScript. Displayed good UX.  • Create find wish list functionality provides unique responses when an invalid user name is submitted to the application.  • UI Screens were developed using HTML5, Java Script, Ajax, jQuery, Bootstrap, Custom-tags, Polymer js, Kendo UI components and CSS3.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, AJAX, and CSS, JQuery other libraries.  • Worked with integrating search engine optimization (SEO) functionality within an MVC framework using constantly evolving legitimate techniques to improve website ranking in the major Search engines.  Environment: PHP, Drupal, HTML5, JavaScript, JSON, JQuery, CSS3, MYSQL, Photoshop, Adobe Flash Professional, Report Builder, Ubuntu 12.04, Linux, Macromedia, DOM, Agile, LAMP, Laravel, Python, Acquia, WordPress, MySQL, MongoDB, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML/XHTML, XML, Zend framework. Sr. PHP/ Drupal Developer Applied Systems, Inc - Atlanta, GA November 2015 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developing PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AngularJS application pages according to project requirements.  • Designed, coded, architected and tested various themes, modules and processes to extend Drupal 8 to meet the client's needs.  • Experienced in Web Form creation, sending email and saving data into the database Drupal 7 & 8  • Recommend feasible UNIX solutions to maximize system performance. Present technical assistance for UNIX atmosphere and tools.  • Create custom Drupal modules using PHP, MySQL and JavaScript and configure required contributed Modules.  • Developing responsive theme using HTML, JQuery, JSON, CSS, GULP and SASS to support devices.  • Carried out extensive verification and testing in order to set MySQL database free from SQLinjections throughout course of database development and management.  • Developed various sections using AngularJS, HTML, CSS, Velocity, AJAX, JSON and Spring web service.  • Worked on UNIX/Linux, MVC, Subversion, CVS, Git, Zend, CakePHP, CodeIgniter Framework, Wordpress, and LAMP toolset.  • Build AJAX pages using PHP to display current server time.  • Involved in the development using JQuery, PHP and designed applications in AJAX with rich user interfaces.  • Strong expertise in Web Application development using PHP with OOPs, CVS, SVN, MySQL, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, Phpc jQuery, AJAX, CSS, Flash ActionScript 3.0 and XML.  • Development experience with Zend, NetBeans, Notepad++, JEdit.  • Modification and customization of the Drupal and WordPress themes.  • Expert PHP Development utilizing Zend, CakePHP, CodeIgniter and Symfony frameworks.  • Worked with MySQL which includes configuration, query optimization, full-text search indexing.  • De-normalization expert in handling the administration of MySQL database using PHPMyAdmin.  • Developed and design security token for in order to verify only valid users can request to API.  • Developed new modules call schedule by using JQuery full calendar and AJAX for front-end and back end using.  • Worked on Stack ZendPHP, Apache Web Server, SVN, Oracle, JavaScript, JQuery.  • Worked on HTML5/CSS and JQuery in a Drupal based CMS environment.  • Used existing JavaScript libraries from DOJO and embedded PHP session and cookies to maintain data state of users.  • Performed image/graphic slicing and optimization using Adobe Photoshop.  • Used JIRA, Stash, Bamboo, Confluence Project development tools.  • Excellent work done in writing queries, stored procedures, triggers and functions in SQLServer, Oracle, DB2 etc.  Environment: PHP, HTML 5, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, UNIX, MySQL, JQuery, Windows, Apache, MVC Frame Work, CSS, Angular, Drupal 7, Laravel, Wordpress. Senior PHP Developer Simple Admit - Baldwinsville, NY January 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designing webpage's in HTML, DHTML using CSS and JavaScript.  • Utilized Python, Django, jQuery and Java etc. to design server applications and client interfaces.  • Managed continuous maintenance and troubleshooting of Python Django projects.  • Collaborated with other developers to handle complicated issues related with deployment of Django based applications.  • Developed and implemented search feature using PHP 5 and AJAX.  • Worked with views and themes in Word Press.  • Creation of menus, pages, templates, blocks in Word Press.  • Development and integration of Newsletter Module.  • Drupal module development, both contributed and non-contributed.  • Active participation for Requirement Gathering, Analysing the project and for designing the project.  • Developed customize content management system for administrator according to project specification.  • Deeply involved in database design, site architecture, HTML, CSS, Jquery, AJAX and other tools and technique to make site more attractive.  • Created a web-based management system for the client using Drupal 7 and developed custom modules to support the system  • Provide functional and technical support and guidance for the development of the Websites based on PHP - Word Press, MySQL.  • Implementation of JavaScript code for validation and authentication.  • Active participation in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including requirements definition, design, programming / testing and implementation of major systems.  Environment: PHP 5, Word Press, JavaScript, HTML, AJAX, CSS, MYSQL, HTML/XHTML, CSS, JQuery, MySQL Apache 2.x, Linux, APC 3.x, Drupal, PHP Template, AJAX, JavaScript. PHP Developer MAQ Software - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2011 to November 2013 Responsibilities:  • Created the User Management for different clients.  • Created User Interfaces for different users.  • Created the initial design to determine the look and feel of the website.  • Developed applications in PHP to aid in the printing and reporting of lead generation for clients.  • Developed the secured server user and admin accounts for secured web access.  • Adapted layouts from graphic artists to internet pages using HTML/CSS.  • Successfully launched promotional web site geared toward local rock brands.  • Focused promotions, link exchanges and advertising toward regional exposure. Traffic increase of over 700% in first year. Response surveys indicate successful regional penetration.  • Took active part in site architecture design.  • Use of PHP to develop website functionality.  • Used PHP/MySQL in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL and PHP) environment for creating dynamic data driven and interactive web pages.  • Responsible for designing and developing the new screens.  • Expert in PHP session variables and cookies implementation.  • Expert in PHP connectivity backend files or database.  • Used CSS, HTML, and JavaScript for developing rich user interface.  • Implemented AJAX in front-end.  • Also worked with a team for designing the payroll form for the employee using Drupal, CSS.  • Developed the front end using PHP, HTML/DHTML, JavaScript, and CSS.  • Created data entry applications to add/edit/delete data from online database.  • Deployed application software on Linux Server.  • Strongly used LAMP (Linux-Apache-MySQL-PHP) platform.  • Maintained and updated web applications written in object oriented PHP accessing MySQL databases.  Environment:  PHP5, MySQL, MongoDB, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, CSS, MS Excel, Window XP, MSWord, Microsoft Visio, Drupal 6x, LAMP, JQuery, SQLyog, AJAX, Dreamweaver CS3, Notepad++. Web Developer Bank of America - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2010 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing interactive web applications using a dynamic scripting language like PHP, Ruby, and Python& Perl.  • Managed front end and applications for Tomcat and Apache web servers to support MySQL database.  • Used Linux command line environment and other tools related to the LAMP stack.  • Worked on Drupal to create various CMS sites.  • Used PHPMyAdmin to handle the administration of MYSQL over the World Wide Web.  • Created HTML5 and CSS from Photoshop mockups.  • I learned scalability and core OOPs concepts of PHP.  • Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop.  • Defined and developed the application's presentation layer using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery Scripting.  • Developed user interface using PHP, CodeIgniter, NOCMS, bootstrap, AJAX, JQuery, HTML, CSS.  • Developed compatible User Interface functionality using JQuery, AJAX, JavaScript& other libraries.  • Modified, Improved & corrected HTML, CSS, js structure.  • Worked on Zend framework in particular creating, parsing and loading XML documents.  • Designed mockups, GUI layouts by using HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked on CSS Background, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, CSS floats, cross browser compatibility and CSS behaviours in CSS.  • Designed Rich Internet Applications (RIA's) and GUI layouts by using Adobe Dreamweaver CS4 and AJAX.  • Developed cross browser and multi browser compatible web pages using HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.  • Used advanced level of HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts (table less layout).  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties.  Environment: PHP, MySQL, JQuery, CSS, Zend, Joomla, CodeIgniter, Rest Web service, WordPress, Drupal, Amazon S3, SVN, GitHub. Skills Ms visual studio, Visual studio, C++, Git, Html, Javascript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, Json, Perl, Php, Codeigniter, Laravel, Symfony, Python, Ajax, Css, Lamp, Web design Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Web Technologies: JavaScript, HTML 5, CSS 3, JQuery, AJAX, DOM, Bootstrap.Js, Angular.Js, Node.Js, React.Js, JSON, DOJO, YUI  Web Services SOAP, REST, API's  Languages PHP 5.x, PHP 7, Perl, SQL, Python, MYSQL, C++, C  Frameworks Symfony, Zend, CodeIgniter, Laravel, CVS, CakePHP  Web Design Dream weaver 8, CMS Frameworks  Applications/ Tools MS Office, MS Visual Studio, MS office, Blender, Dream Weaver, Git, Adobe Flash,  Web Servers WAMP, LAMP, XAMPP  Databases MySQL, DB2, MongoDB, Oracle, SQL Server  Software Net Beans, Eclipse, Notepad++, Sublime editor, PHP Storm  CMS Wordpress, Drupal, Joomla, Zend.  Operating Systems Windows, UNIX, Linux, Mac OS.