Catering Server Catering Server Web Developer /Designer student Medford, MA Dynamic, proficient, and creative web developer with strong design skills. Experienced troubleshooter solving software and hardware problems. Knowledgeable about Android development. Outstanding work ethic: hard working, reliable, stay to finish the job, willing to stay overtime. Quick learner; meet deadlines efficiently. Good listener who follows directions and eager to learn all that is new in technology. Embraces teamwork and also enjoys working independently. Bilingual in written and spoken English and Spanish. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Catering Server Event Temps - Cambridge, MA October 2018 to Present • Set up and organized the dining area and carpool driver for specific events.  • Executing catering events in a professional and timely manner Web Developer Intern Semia Education Technology Corp (USA) - Medford, MA March 2018 to July 2018 • Developed and updated company website as needed.  • Created and edited images for promotional usage for web, social media and print materials.  • Worked on cross-browser development: UX/UI design prototype and development.  • Tested, debugged, designed and created modern responsive web interfaces and content. Web Developer Intern Champ Internet Solutions - Newton, MA October 2017 to December 2017 • Took layered PSD from our design team and turned into fully functional website, integrating a CMS and client-side Java script.  • Handled multiple projects of varying scopes while meeting deadlines and writing high quality code   • Worked on tasks related to UI, cross-browser compatibility, general web functions and standards. HTML and CSS Tutor Bunker Hill Community College - Charlestown, MA March 2015 to May 2017 • Helped individual students improve website building skills.  • Explained best practices in the use of HTML5, CSS and Ajax to build robust web apps. Education Bachelor's in Information Technology University of Massachusetts-Boston - Boston, MA September 2019 to December 2021 A. S. in Web Development Bunker Hill Community College - Boston, MA 2017 Bachelor's in Psychology Ricardo Palma University - Lima, PE 1998 Skills Javascript (3 years), HTML 5 (3 years), CSS3 (3 years), JQuery (3 years), PHP (3 years), XML (3 years), XSLT (3 years), SQL (3 years), MySQL (3 years), Bootstrap (3 years), React (Less than 1 year), Git (1 year), Python (1 year), Android (1 year), SAAS (1 year), Ajax (2 years), JSON (2 years), Photoshop (3 years), Illustrator (1 year), Invision (2 years), Wordpress (1 year), Adobe Business Catalyst (Less than 1 year), Progressive Web Apps (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Office (3 years), User Experience Design (2 years), User Interface Design (2 years), Responsive Web Design (3 years), Web Applications (3 years), Testing/Debugging (2 years), Lavarel (Less than 1 year) Links http://pedrocancharip.xyz https://github.com/drsaurio Assessments Graphic Design Skills — Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to create visual media to effectively communicate information and concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/i-ntakjup6ni7o7s Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.