Web Developer/Designer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Designer Web Developer Roseburg, OR I have a total of 8 years doing web development and design, primarily working as an in-house web developer/designer. I am a detail oriented person with a strong understanding of the web design and SEO best practices. Would like to continue to grow personally and develop more skills and use my current skills at assist in any task given. Your Consideration Of my Qualifications is greatly appreciated. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer/Designer Portland Compressor - Portland, OR September 2013 to Present Completely overhauled portlandcompressor.com site to be responsive and Improved UI/UX for website. Migrated site from legacy asp.net to asp.net Core MVC. Performed on-going reviews and analyzed various areas of the website that needed to be improved, deleted or revised. Media/Front End Web Developer Purebulk, Inc - Roseburg, OR April 2012 to November 2012 Developed and optimized front-end web pages (HTML, CSS, and jQuery) for PureBulk.com eCommerce Website. Programmed special effects for video or film projects. Customer Support Flexforce - Roseburg, OR October 2011 to February 2012 Assisted customers with questions or issues regarding their accounts received via phone. Used computerized system for tracking, information gathering, and troubleshooting. Provided Interactive balancing and to research customers account. Web Developer Webtrax - Sutherlin, OR December 2009 to August 2011 Developed database-driven web interfaces for rapid, real-time information sharing and performed database design and development in MS SQL. Optimized existing code and SQL queries to improve performance and code re-use. Education Penn Foster Home School - Scranton, PA September 2003 to April 2006 diploma High School April 2006 Skills Web Development (8 years), Web Design (8 years), Wordpress, Javascript, Photoshop, HTML (8 years), CSS3 (8 years), SASS (4 years), SEO (6 years), SQL (8 years), .NET (5 years), Google Analytics (5 years), JQuery (4 years), Website, Git, MySQL, HTML 5, CSS (8 years), ASP Links https://www.digitalcloudnw.com/