Android developer Android <span class="hl">developer</span> Brooklyn, NY • Experience in writing multi-threaded applications (performance, scalability, reliability)  • Experience in real time streaming using MJPEG protocol.  • Expert in the interaction between various devices and different versions of Android.  • Experience with writing and maintaining websites (both client & server sides).  • Proficient in object-oriented design, data structures, problem solving, complexity analysis, and debugging. Work Experience Android developer March 2019 to Present Customer needs: Follow your favorite TV shows, get notified for updates and upcoming episodes, track your season progress.  Duties:  • Designing and developing an advanced application for the Android platform.  • Working with RESTful services and APIs.  • Built a scrapper using DOM with JSOUP APIs. Android developer Visionix - Jerusalem, IL December 2014 to November 2016 Customer Needs: Reliable and quick way to measure patient eye sight.  Duties:  • Streaming patients eye sight during the measurement procedure.  • Collaborate with cross-functional teams to define, design, and ship new features.  • Provide accurate completion timelines and deliver solutions according to those timelines. Android Developer Action Item - Tel Aviv, IL July 2013 to December 2014 Customer Needs: Manage your vocation with ease, add meetings, flights, hotel bookings and car rentals, get notify for any changes in your itinerary.  Duties:  • Working with RESTful APIs to connect to back-end services.  • Cross platform support for smartphones, tablets and amazon devices to insure consistent performance and features support across all devices.  • Find solutions to software defects identified both internally and externally.    https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.worldmate&hl=en    Project: Molto.  Services: Android Developer.  Customer Needs: Quick and intuitive way to manage your multiple email accounts.  Duties:  • Built in app web browser for seamlessly working with external links.  • Build FTUE, how the user should interact with the application.  • Troubleshoot and resolve mobile bugs gathered from QA and user feedback. Web and Android Developer Discontinued March 2012 to July 2013 Customer needs: Immediate way to get notified when there is intruder in the house or office.  Duties:  • Built a hybrid application for Android and iOS using Cordova plugin.  • Integration with RESTful and socket APIs.  • Bug fixing and improving application performance.    Project: Pizzapp.  Services: Web and Android Developer.  Customer needs: Create customizable pizza following your directions. Get live updates to see at what stage the order is.  Duties:  • Built a drag and drop interface for adding/removing toppings.  • Built service side API for taking orders, integrate them for mobile application Education BSc in computer science Hadassah College - Jerusalem, IL 2009 to 2011 Skills Android, Html5, Ajax, Css, Tomcat Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/anton-makov-76102030 Additional Information Expertise:    Environments Unix (Linux), Windows, VMWare, VirtualBox.  Languages Android, Kotlin, Java, C, C++, HTML5, CSS, Java script, Ajax, jQuery, jQuery Mobile, SQL, JSP, PHP.  Libraries Dagger 2, RxJava, Room, Jsoup, Glide, Retrofit, EventBus, Butter knife, GSON.  Databases MS Access, MySQL, SQLite.  Servers Apache, Tomcat, FTP.  Tools Android Studio, Eclipse, Notepad++, Visual Studio.  Source control GIT, SVN.