Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - Sevatec, Inc Temple Hills, MD Dynamic and ambitious Junior Web Developer with specialized expertise in web design and development technologies and languages, including HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, SQL, Bootstrap, Microsoft SharePoint, Microsoft SQL Server, Adobe Creative Cloud, Git, and Azure DevOps. Work Experience Web Developer Sevatec, Inc - (Contracted to Department of Transportation) - Washington, DC October 2018 to Present • Executed over 100 web requests for federal customers, delivering content updates, issue remediation, and enhancements using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, ColdFusion, ASP.NET, and SQL.  • Collaboratively engineered a financial web application in SharePoint 2010 for Department of Transportation's Build America Bureau under Agile management through Azure DevOps.  • Implemented a user interface redesign for Department of Transportation's National Bridge Inventory web application, generating responsive, Section 508 compliant web pages through HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, and jQuery.  • Prepared interactive reports and data visualizations, illustrating various web request metrics for federal offices, using SharePoint List and Microsoft Excel data within Power BI Desktop. Web Designer Consultant - Remote Color of Hope - Lake Worth, FL August 2017 to January 2019 • Created web graphics for posting on corporate home page and microsite, promoting various campaign drives.  • Supported and troubleshooted WordPress plugin issues and core WordPress installation files.  • Prototyped web page user interface and interactivity using Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Dreamweaver to mitigate development bottlenecks.  • Communicated and applied best practices within the scope of UI/UX, security, and Section 508 compliance.  • Configured donation web form using HTML, CSS, and jQuery, integrating it with the PayPal Donations system. Graphic Designer Environmental Law Institute - Washington, DC December 2012 to October 2018 • Produced web graphics and print material comprising banners, slides, brochures, advertisements, reports, book covers, promotions, and campaigns using the Adobe Creative Cloud and Creative Suite.  • Coordinated all phases of print material production, including identifying printers, negotiating prices with vendors, and ensuring deadlines are met.  • Designed advertisements and booklets for ELI's Annual Award Dinner Program, seeing 750+ sponsors and members in attendance.  • Drafted and maintained corporate branding guidelines and electronic documentation.  • Published multimedia content updates on corporate website through Drupal 7. Web Content Intern Executive Office of the President of the United States - Washington, DC August 2011 to May 2012 • Formatted and published White House daily press releases incorporating various media on WhiteHouse.Gov through Drupal 7.  • Delivered weekly content updates on the Executive Office of the President's intranet, by modifying HTML and CSS, ensuring standardized and consistent markup.  • Prepared web graphics for posting on the Executive Office of the President's intranet.  • Developed graphics for the Office of National Drug Control Policy, including a March 2012 infographic highlighting a drug policy record of reform.  • Converted the 2011 National Drug Control Strategy PDF into web pages through HTML, CSS, and JavaScript implementation. Social Media / Web Design Intern ThinkImpact - Denver, CO August 2011 to January 2012 • Modified web graphics for posting on corporate website and Facebook account, promoting sponsor support and user engagement.  • Published and managed content updates on corporate website through WordPress.  • Troubleshooted website, database, and server defects as needed via WordPress and cPanel.  • Enhanced page content, functionality, and user experience using HTML, CSS, PHP, and JavaScript. Education Bachelor's in Computer Information Systems DeVry University - Arlington, VA January 2013 to June 2017 Certifications/Licenses MTA Software Development Fundamentals September 2017 to Present Demonstrates core software development foundation and competency through an understanding of core programming, web applications, object-oriented programming, databases, desktop applications, and general software development. Microsoft 70-480 Programming in HTML5 with JavaScript and CSS3 March 2019 to Present Measures ability to implement document structures and objects, implement program flow, access and secure data, and use CSS3 in applications.