Web Coordinator <span class="hl">Web</span> Coordinator Web Coordinator- University of Kentucky Libraries Lexington, KY Work Experience Web Coordinator University of Kentucky Libraries - Lexington, KY January 2019 to Present Application Environment: PHP, MySQL, Apache, HTML5, JavaScript  Responsibilities:   • Updating University of Kentucky Libraries website.  • Making changes to the Libraries website as and when required.  • Using Site improve test the website for inaccessible, outdated contents and work towards fixing them.  • Analyze google analytics data for the Libraries website.   • Generate analytics reports for the Web Advisory Committee.  • Create Digital Experience for digital displays in the W. T. Young Library building. Web Developer Laboratory Services, University of Kentucky - Lexington, KY March 2017 to July 2018 Application environment: Python, Django REST, HTML5, JavaScript, MySQL  Responsibilities:  • Developing interface to the scientific database.  • Creating and developing a web interface tool for simplification of large scale data analysis.  • Development of tools for generating reports and data files for the technicians.  • A/B testing of the application to check and fix the load time of the reports. Freelance Website Developer Local Consignment Shop's Website - Lexington, KY January 2016 to April 2016 Application environment: WordPress Responsibilities:  • Analyze website needs, discuss possibilities with customer.  • Using WordPress designed and developed the website to suit the requirements of the customer.  • Designing and Testing the website to ensure quality and functionality. Freelance Website Developer Local Realtor's Website - Lexington, KY June 2015 to July 2015 Application environment: WordPress  Responsibilities:  • Customizing themes and plugins and gathering website requirements from the customer.  • Designing and Testing the website to ensure quality and functionality. Support Analyst Epilepsy Foundation of Victoria - Melbourne VIC July 2013 to February 2014 Application environment: MS-Excel, HTML  Responsibilities:  • Creating and maintaining patent database in accordance with regulatory requirements.  • Data analysis and generating reports for senior management.  • Provide Tier 1 support to all customers, customer correspondence and communication  • Updating and maintaining corporate website on a regular basis. Freelance Web Developer Zenars Inc - Columbus, OH June 2006 to December 2007 Application environment: HTML, JSP, Servlets, Web Creator, Macromedia Flash 8  Responsibilities:  • Gather and document customer requirements  • Design and develop website  • Provide daily support and assist with website administration. Software Developer ABM Knowledgeware Limited - Mumbai, Maharashtra November 2003 to July 2004 Application environment: HTML, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, IBM DB2, IBM WebSphere  Responsibilities:  • Developed system modules such as order entry, order details, sales, invoicing and reporting  • Designed and developed database.  • Designed and create a prototype and layout of web pages  • Implemented JavaScript functionality to increase efficiency  • Carried out application demonstration, on-site customer training and creating end user documentation  • Quality assurance testing of all system modules Software Developer NETAPS India Private Limited Pune November 2001 to June 2003 Application environment: HTML, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, MySQL, Tomcat, Java Swing Responsibilities:  • Actively involved with software design, development and functionality testing  • Responsible for documenting system procedures used for code development and deployment Intern Software Developer Eviencere Software Solutions - Pune, Maharashtra March 2000 to July 2000 Application environment: HTML, JavaScript, MySQL, Tomcat  Responsibilities:  • Active team member in the software development team  • Responsible for process documentation and creating end-user documentation Education Master's in computer management in computer management University of Pune - Pune, Maharashtra 1998 to 2000 Bachelor of Commerce in Commerce University of Pune - Pune, Maharashtra 1995 to 1998 Skills Content management system (2 years), Html5 (1 year), Java (1 year), Javascript (4 years), jquery (Less than 1 year), Jsp (3 years), Python (2 years), Rest (1 year), Servlets (3 years), Websphere (Less than 1 year), Wordpress (2 years), PHP, Bootstrap (Less than 1 year) Assessments Technical Support Skills — Highly Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/lghzcwe-nrwk8hfv Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.