Data Analyst, Web Developer Data Analyst, <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Irving, TX Passionate IT professional with four years of experience in data warehousing, ETL, SQL development and deployment. Would like to place myself in a challenging environment, to bring my technology and problems to the play. Active learner with strong academic track record. Team player with demonstrated communication, technology skills and a strong motivation to learn, practice and contribute consistently.  ? Data Warehouse  ? Application Management   ? Automation  ? ETL  ? SQL  ? UNIX  ? Communication  ? Configuration Management Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Data Analyst, Web Developer Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) - Chennai, Tamil Nadu February 2012 to February 2016 Education Bachelor's in Information Technology, Gold Medalist (2007-2011) Sree Vidyanikethan College of Engineering - Tirupati, Andhra Pradesh May 2011 Skills Javascript, ETL, HTML, XML, CSS, Teradata, Unix Administration, Oracle 10G Awards Achievements 1. Star of the month award - on March 2013, for delivering two production deployments within the span of one month.   2. On the spot recognition award - on November 2013, for resolving a complex production bug and data recovery strategy and implementation in the Joint Business Partnership project.   3. Service and Commitment award - on Feb 2015, for an overall contribution in the 3 continuous years.  Additional Information PROJECT HISTORY    •  In the Initial Learning Program, got acquainted to the data warehousing ETL tech stack. Developed SQL scripts to enhance customer events data by introducing an attribute for called the customer category.  •  Performed end-to-end software development task on yearlong Joint Business Partnership project, which is to integrate feeds from multiple airlines and apply merger rules. My responsibilities include developing scripts to consume new inbound data files, writing SQLs according to the merger business requirements and integrate them with existing data models and producing new Business Objects dashboards for insights.  •  Coordinated on a yearlong project at overseas client location in British Airways. My responsibilities in- clude gathering business requirements, triaging them to offshore team of 5 people, and developing well tested, performant data warehouse jobs. Learned a lot of team building, communication in addition to technology and problem solving.  • As a logical next step, to make use of the business and platform knowledge moved to the operations for data and integrity project within the warehouse, ensuring daily batch jobs completed flawlessly and any incidents turned around in a timely manner. 