SOLAR CONSULTANT SOLAR CONSULTANT SOLAR CONSULTANT - RENU Lancaster, PA Web Developer with 3+ years of experience in designing and developing user interfaces,  testing, and debugging within web technologies. Proven ability in optimizing web  functionalities that improve data retrieval and workflow efficiencies. Work Experience SOLAR CONSULTANT RENU - Harrisburg, PA 2019 to Present • Conduct in-home and remote sales appointments.    • Build working relationships and close transactions in highly-competitive situations.    • Manage prospect sales cycle from initial contact to close.    • Provide ongoing follow up with prospects and current customers. TRINITY SOLAR - Harrisburg, PA 2018 to 2019 Generate qualified leads of homeowners interested in residential solar energy  systems.    • Serve as a consultant and provide useful product knowledge to qualifying.    • Acquire, retain and constantly develop industry. WEB DEVELOPER KALDOA - Lancaster, PA 2015 to 2017 • UI Creator    • Back-end programmer.    • Front-end programmer.    • Database schema designer.    • Network administrator.    • I owned the business and it's no longer operating. Here is a link of the app:  https://appadvice.com/game/app/kaldoa/1092692518 WEB DEVELOPER CADMIUMCD - Forest Hill, MD 2014 to 2015 • Design and build software for current business projects.    • Work in an agile team environment to complete projects.    • Research new technologies.    • Work in innovative solutions for business problems.    • Work with other Software Engineers to develop a better understand of softwaret technologies. Education Associate in Computer Science Millersville University 2014 Skills .net, C#, Javascript, Ionic, .net core, Php, Codeigniter, Html5, jquery Assessments Technical Support — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/pr40star4x-4yae Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills  • HTML5    • CSS3    • Javascript    • jQuery    • Angular    • React    • PHP    • C# .Net Core    • Nodejs    • Expressjs    • Codeigniter    • Ionic