Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - Freelancing I've been working as web developer for 3 years in Italy, UK and Ireland.  Now I'm looking for something stable.  My most experienced technologies are JavaScript, PHP and some Python but I  passionately get myself into other technologies as required.  I'd like to improve my usage of best practices and test driven development.  I'm vegan and I enjoy drawing, scientific open source projects and outdoor  activities. Work Experience Web Developer Freelancing April 2018 to Present Palermo    I currently work with Django and Vuejs for one of my client projects which is an e-learning platform. The goal of the project is to give an online platform to  teachers and students to create and buy courses. That is very stimulating and it keeps me well motivated in doing something the client can be satisfied with.  Client side I built the app that allows teachers to create and manage their  coursers. It is a single page application written with the VueJS framework and structured with Vuex to store data shared across the components and  communicating with the Django REST API through services.  I also worked with Angular 2+ on a software manager with a team of developers. I mainly dealt with software maintenance and bug fixing.  Back in 2018 I mainly worked with two clients in the "sanitization" of old  software systems used for company phone survey management (first client) and national transportation accountancy (second one).  It may be worth to mention that one of the clients had many ideas matured during the years that he wanted to realize since a long time, but he didn't find  yet someone and the time to actually build them. One of these idea was the  prediction algorithm to establish how many lines asterisk should open for the next queue. We succeeded in building a working prototype to be perfected over the time, that saved a lot of time and resources and the client was very happy  about it.  Technologies involved: PHP, JavaScript, NodeJS, Linux system, Asterisk. Developer Mindfury August 2017 to February 2018 I've been hired in this new born digital company as a generic Web Developer, not a specific tool or language in particular. Our latest projects though, they all  focused on Angular 5 and Django in the back end.  The kind of applications we deployed have been quite complex B2B software, but even single page applications to promote custom specific ad campaigns.  Some example:  - A landing page editor that allows to the client to create his/her own Angular5  applications by just using forms and manipulating the values of a JSON object  containing all the information necessary to build the application on the fly.  - A video editor which allows to the client to create video ad campaigns. When  playing the video, interactive banners pop up to allow the customer to buy that  specific product advertised in the video frames.  I've been mentoring other junior developers and have been assisted  occasionally as well. Here I learned to deal with clients, gather requirements from them and brainstorming solutions in the planning phase of the projects.  I also applied some new concepts about Angular like Observables. Developer Holiday Extras April 2016 to June 2017 Holiday Extras was my first big company abroad experience. It took me few  days to adapt to the new environment but the team it has been very  welcoming and I really appreciated. The first days I've been assisted by a senior developer who showed me all their systems and their "modus operandi" with their AGILE team and Jira system.  For example they wrapped all changes in a bit system so that each feature  could be switched on and off. I learned all of this quickly and I started working on daily tasks about bugs fixing and booking engines.  They were migrating the old systems written in PHP and Dust into a more  modern stack with NodeJS and React.  The project managers were satisfied and, after a while, they assigned me my  first big responsibility with a long term project on securing the payment pages of their websites with a hosted fields vendor called Braintree. I built the client  in Javascript to consume the Braintree API and worked closely with two back  end developers until the deadline which was the deployment of the payment  pages on all the production websites. After the deployment we monitored the situation closely to manage live issues promptly. It has been a little success and  we hanged out together after all the hard work.  Other projects using React have been the pages listing the products and the search engine systems. We worked hard on abstracting the search engine as  much as possible to make them reusable across all the brands. Web Developer Avalia s.r.l September 2015 to February 2016 For the first time I had the occasion to work on a greenfield project.  It was an advertising system where publishers, advertisers and brokers could  register to to find matches and starting campaigns.  We discussed about this in front of an Entity Relationship Diagram.  The portal also included a system of javascript snippets to take track of Impressions and Clicks to create some stats to be shown to the advertiser  account.  For the purpose we decided to use Symfony, Mysql, MongoDB, JQuery and pure  Javascript. So we started working remotely. I was initially supported by an engineer but I dealt with the majority of the tasks in autonomy. After few  iterations we completed a minimum viable product to present to the client.  Then I switched to my second project.  It was the AngularJS client of a Prepaid Card Management System. The REST  API was written in Java. I had to consume this API through services to make an application that could manage the prepaid cards of each customer. The key  word for this job it was simplicity, not much about styling and making things  cool but about making a functional interface for a demo before the deadline.  I enjoyed working remotely with these people and I had a lot to learn, still I  demonstrated myself being helpful and I gave my contribute into making  things done by covering all the tasks that have been assigned to me. Web Developer Grafill.it April 2014 to January 2015 I started writing some interfaces for the accounting team to help them making the counts.  After I passed this period of probation the company had some desktop software  written in C# and a proprietary MVC framework for an e-commerce website for selling e-books for Architects and Engineers. I never used C# and never worked  with MVC frameworks but in few days I started understanding the language and the logic of their softwares. In a couple of weeks I was already working on new  features for the website and the attached C# softwares.  After some planning we also decided to re-build their old news portal and database about construction industry by using Symfony.  I also contributed in moving old technologies into modern HTML5 + Javascript  applications. I translated a lot of mockups coming from the design team into functional, interactive and responsive webpages paying attention to details like  font, dimensions and colors. Skills Django, Git, Javascript, Redux, Typescript, Json, Orm, Php, Xml, Html5, Mvc, Linux, Amazon s3, Mongodb, Sql, Jira, Ajax, Css, Engines, Mac, Angular, Bootstrap, Front End, Jquery, HTML Links https://github.com/adevelopercase Additional Information Skills    CLIENT: JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3 + precompilatori, JSON, XML, CSS  frameworks, Vuex, Redux, Angular, React, VueJS, TDD, Typescript, Single Page  Applications, AJAX, ES6, template engines  SERVER: PHP, SQL, NodeJS, Django, Symphony, MongoDB, ORM, MVC, Express  ALTRO: Linux, Mac, Windows, Git, Jira, Amazon S3