Application Developer Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Application Developer - Inbound Horizons Seattle, WA With three years' experience as a Full Stack Web Developer, a solid foundation in programmatic problem solving, and a keen eye for design, I am eager to be  part of a workforce where I will have the opportunity to exercise my creative potential to meet the requirements of emerging user centric products. Work Experience Application Developer Inbound Horizons January 2017 to Present Accomplished several projects pertaining to the company's proprietary Customer Relationship Management website including, but not limited to:  ? Revamping the website's overall User Experience by implementing a new color theme using LESS, CSS and Bootstrap 3 along with Charts.js, a flexible open-source Javascript Charting library to display graphs plotting user statistics.  ? Creating new modules such as:  * An Analytics Page to provide a GUI for historical sales data of Mobile Homes featuring a form using selectize.js to request data belonging to a select number of dealers to AJAX-populate charts and tables via Google Charts and Datatables.js.  * An Inventory Maps Page for users to add new homes and place them as flexible graphical objects on an editable lot map, with each object representing physical inventory, implemented using Fabric.js and HTML5 Canvas.  * A Bulk Lead Input Interface to enter and save multiple customers' information at once by implementing a save-as-you-type spreadsheet using Handsontable.js.  * A JIRA-style Boards Track View for sales leads with different statuses via JQueryUI's sortable functionality.  ? Incorporating tweaks, updates and maintenance on existing modules to improve usability and performance, such as:  * Implementing auto-save on site forms via AJAX, making Data Table entries editable, drag-and-drop file upload functionality via dropzone.js, DialogTech API to match and verify numbers saved in Database, Automated Spam Blocking for Leads, 'Search as you type' Isotope-driven on-page filtering for the 'manage users' page interface, Export-reports-to-PDF functionality  * Leveraging Facebook API to push Facebook Lead Ads to a CRM listener  * Enhancing Dashboard panels' design  * Integrating modules and database tables to eliminate redundancy  ? Applied immediate UX fixes to a client's business website involving text font, image display, as well as top menu placement, to increase site conversions.  ? Performed several server maintenance and update tasks such as website migration, database server migration from MySQL to MariaDB. Web Development Intern Inbound Horizons - Corpus Christi, TX June 2015 to August 2015 Designed and developed fully-functional websites for small businesses with Wordpress while performing customization using PHP, JQuery, and CSS.  ? Implemented a communications system on the company's Customer Relationship Management (CRM) website using PHP and MySQL for improved oversight of customer contact along with AJAX development of a certain Parts Update Module providing optimal user experience to the services department.  ? Cooperated with coworkers through interpersonal and online communication such as email, instant messaging services, and video calls.  ? Conducted phone interviews with clients to elicit requirements for their respective business websites. Web Developer ABCD E-Learning - Kolkata, West Bengal December 2012 to July 2014 Developed, debugged, tested, and maintained websites including the company's website and proprietary Learning Management System (LMS) along with e-learning web applications for schools and healthcare organizations using PHP, JavaScript, and MySQL.  ? Collaborated with technical, design, and business staff for planning, implementation, and deployment of projects through face-to-face and online communication including email and instant messaging services.  ? Presented and demonstrated E-Learning products in English to prospective clients such as high school staff. Education Master of Science in Software Engineering Arizona State University - Polytechnic Campus - Mesa, AZ December 2016 Skills C# (Less than 1 year), C++ (1 year), Git, OBJECT-ORIENTED PROGRAMMING (3 years), PYTHON (Less than 1 year), JIRA, JAVA (1 year), VERSION CONTROL, KANBAN (2 years), HTML (4 years), Javascript (3 years), SQL (3 years), Jquery (3 years), XML (1 year), Linux, PHP (3 years), Photoshop, CSS (2 years)