Senior Front-end Developer Senior Front-end <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Front-end Developer Work Experience Senior Front-end Developer Varidesk July 2018 to October 2018 Responsibilities  • Helped design and develop a modern, modularized, universal app to eventually replace current production site.  • Focused design and development for deployment in multiple languages and cultures following internationalization best practices.  • Worked with Headless CMS framework to enable marketing team to seamlessly update campaigns and branding in multiple languages.  • Reworked UI, while also following management's business requirements, to make the page responsive and mobile-friendly but also seamlessly integrate with new and existing services.  • Integrated GraphQL data layer, fringe micro services, and server side rendering to increase page speed, future-proof design, and modularize a monolithic workflow.  • Developed API routes to be utilized for integrating backend services to frontend UI.  • Developed documentation for team processes and then distributing that knowledge to new hires, relevant team members, and management.  • Trained new hires on workflows, styling guidelines, and development strategies.  Environment  • Universal Nuxt.js app with .Net micro services managed via Kubernetes.  • Supported transition to responsive design.  • Photography and design work completed with latest version of Adobe Photoshop, and Illustrator.  • Typescript, Javascript, HTML, CSS, SCSS coding languages focus.  • Utilized REST APIs to create, read, update, and delete data. Angular/Adobe Analytics Developer Citibank April 2018 to June 2018 Responsibilities  • Worked on a team tasked with the design and development of analytical data used by Citibank on Angular 2-5 and legacy pages and applications that run off a variety of backend systems.  • Researched and developed Proof of Concept designs, workflows, and environments.  • Developed and implemented automation strategies.  • Researched and wrote testing scripts and procedures with Selenium.  • Created Chrome extensions to aid in development, testing, and automation.  • Conducted interviews for potential new hires.  • Developed documentation for team processes and then distributing that knowledge to new hires, relevant team members, and management.  • Created wireframes and demonstrating POCs with Angular 6.  • Designed and building REST APIs for development use.  • Deployed AWS Serverless for use in services, API, and frontend development.  • Data manipulation for seamless integration to legacy and planned systems.    Environment  • Mixture of Angular of Legacy pages and application utilizing in-house components and style-guides to create hundreds of mission critical Citibank pages and services.  • Supported transition to responsive design.  • Selenium testing.  • Photography and design work completed with latest version of Adobe Photoshop, and Illustrator.  • Typescript, Javascript, HTML, CSS, SCSS coding languages focus.  • Utilized REST APIs to create, read, update, and delete data. Lead UI/UX Designer T.G. Mercer March 2017 to September 2017 Responsibilities  • Worked with upper management and potential users to plan a new application's layout and workflow, prioritizing necessary components for initial release, creating wireframes and mockups, and setting long-term expectations for the application's later releases.  • Oversaw the creation of wireframes and design standards for the application and its components.  • Built a mobile-first, responsive front end with the latest released Angular version and Angular Material components.  • Acted in roles such as SEO, Web Development, QA Testing, etc as necessary.  Environment  • Angular (versions 2 - 5) front-end utilizing Google's Material Design guidelines to create a responsive web app built with Node.js on a Java/MySQL/TomCat backend.  • Utilized responsive design libraries such as Bootstrap and PrimeNG  • Tortoisegit version control  • Protractor E2E testing  • Grunt task runner.  • Photography, graphic, and videography work completed with latest version of Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, and DaVinci Resolve.  • Javascript, Typescript, HTML, CSS, SCSS coding languages focus.  • Utilized REST APIs to create, read, update, and delete data. Senior Web Developer Clay Fox Creative August 2016 to March 2017 Responsibilities  • Designed and deployed to-order responsive, mobile-first websites at client specifications.  • Utilized responsive design libraries such as Bootstrap and Foundation.  • Projects varied from recruiting firms to professional athletes.  • Required a wide array of necessary skills, adaptability, and high level planning to design wireframes, mockups, styling themes, and workflows.  • Utilized REST APIs to create, read, update, and delete data.    Environment  • Wordpress, Foundation, and jQuery front-end with PHP/MySQL backend utilizing guidelines from clients' marketing campaigns to create websites, advertisements, online communities, and E-commerce platforms.  • Git versioning for team collaboration on projects.  • Photography, graphic, and videography work completed with latest version of Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, and DaVinci Resolve.  • Javascript, PHP, HTML, CSS, SCSS coding languages focus.  • Utilized REST APIs to create, read, update, and delete data. Project Lead at District Attorney Denton County August 2015 to March 2016 Responsibilities  • Lead many-faceted team that overhauled the UI, architecture, database, and reporting of the District Attorney's Evidence Management System.  • Consulted D.A. officials on the creation of standard operating procedures, documentation, training and took their input to create wireframes, mockups, and demos for potential design solutions.  • Position required long term and high level planning, coordinating several departments, and strict implementation and adherence to security and privacy policy.  • Utilized REST APIs to create, read, update, and delete data.  Environment  • Customized MVC front-end with .NET/MySQL-based backend to create secure electronic filing, dissemination, and storage system for the Denton County courts, police, and defense attorneys.  • Javascript, PHP, HTML, jQuery, CSS, MySQL coding languages focus. Web, App, and Graphic Designer Denton County Applications Development October 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities  • Assisted in the design, creation, and deployment of the county's website that served over 40 departments.  • Created digital media for county use.  • Utilized Bootstrap for responsive design.  • Created, maintained, and debugged applications for the departments of Denton County.  Environment  • Sitecore front-end with .NET-based backend to create and maintain an official county website.  • Versioning was controlled through Sitecore  • Photography and graphic work completed with latest version of Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator.  • Javascript, PHP, HTML, jQuery, CSS, SCSS coding languages focus. Freelance Web Developer May 2013 to October 2014 Responsibilities  • Created websites, logos, and digital graphics for clients.  • Designed Business Applications for work automation.  • Utilized responsive design libraries such as Bootstrap and Foundation.  • Assisted clients develop digital marketing campaigns and strategies.  Environment  • Wordpress, Foundation, and jQuery front-end with PHP/MySQL backend to create websites, logos, and original content for clients.  • Photography and graphic work completed with latest version of Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator.  • Javascript, PHP, HTML, jQuery, CSS coding languages focus. Education B.A. in Spanish University of North Texas August 2007 to May 2010 Skills Front-end, Illustrator, Wordpress, Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Typescript, Oop, Php, Laravel, Soa, Rest, Mysql, Html5, Mvc, Sass, jquery, Mongodb, Frameworks Links http://HeyGilbert.com Additional Information Professional Skills  Teamwork  • Communicating clearly with teammates and clients  • Working independently with little guidance or in a group  • Sharing knowledge with other team members via training and documentation  • Interacting with clients to establish how best to meet their needs  • Happily performing other related duties as required  Development  • Aligning small details with overall goals to ensure well-made applications  • Analyzing large amounts of information for strategic planning  • Strong habits of excellence, testing practices, and forward-thinking  • Designing and implementing clients' custom software desires  • Experience building front-end web applications with various back-end and vendor services, REST APIs, and traditional and MVC architectures  • Building sound OOP and SOA plans for long term success  • Experience working with and abiding with information and security policies and practices    Technical Skills  Languages  • HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, jQuery, SASS, SCSS, PHP, MySQL, MongoDB, Typescript, GraphQL  Frameworks  • Foundation Zurb, WordPress, Bootstrap, Laravel, Express, Sitecore, Angular, React, Vue, Nuxt, Metalsmith  Tools  • Git, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, Gulp.js, Yeoman, Node.js, XAMPP