Web Developer/Designer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Designer Web Developer / Designer Woodbridge, VA Northern Virginia Community Collegue Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer/Designer RoosterShoppe Online Store - Woodbridge, VA September 2018 to Present - Wordpress and Bootstrap: Uploading new products to the online store, writing information in HTML coding editor.   - Photoshop: Modifying and improving all product images before being uploaded to the online store.  - PHP: Modifying template by editing PHP code functions, create new functions and insert new scripts in pages.  - Wordpress - Plugins and Widgets: Installing and setting up plugins and widgets to improve customer experience  - CSS: Improve framework layout by adding CSS code. Constantly improving online presence by making the website user friendly.  - SEO: Implements performance and website/ search engine optimization best practices.  - Google Analytics: Create campaigns to monitor customer behaviors and interactions with online store.  - Facebook Manager: Create Ad campaigns to sell engaging video Ads.  - Facebook Developers: Integrating widget code into online store. (like, share...)  - Video Editing: Creating Engaging videos in Final Cut or Camtasia to promote new products on social media.  - Youtube: Uploading new products and add descriptions on Yutube channel.  - Manage Social Media Pages (FacebooK and Youtube): Adding new products daily, writing content. Web Designer ACCURATE PRINTING - Woodbridge, VA February 2011 to January 2014 - Create mock-ups and develop page layout and navigation.  - Coordinate with company departments in the development of websites and other digital media.  - Determines user’s needs, strategies, and goals and develop sites/designs/products that meet those needs.  - Format all files for printing or other output means as required  - Achieve a minimal error rate in design content demonstrating the ability to question effectively and model the division’s needs with whatever information is supplied.  - Become and stay aware of current marketing trends and promotional concepts at work in the world through constant market research and personal passion.  - Perform various design projects to accommodate the daily flow of business within the context of needs as assigned.  - Back-up all files and maintain design server organization with exceptional attention to detail.  - Provide recommendations for printing methods and materials to best suit the needs of each project.  - Design creative and unique visually appealing artwork both from scratch and from existing design direction.  - Create finished print related materials, including documents, presentations, brochures, stationary, whitepapers, conference material, signage, event signage, etc.  - Design and develop strong visually focused, web related marketing material using HTML5, CSS3, etc.  - Gather requirements and estimating hours/budget and prepare & maintain scopes.   - Programs online, mobile-capable, and/or desktop user interfaces for a variety of platforms.  - Interpret feedback and manage expectations.  - Understand scope, budget, and timeline of projects and be able to communicate effectively to ensure smooth delivery. Education Associate in Information Technology Northern Virginia Community College - Woodbridge, VA Skills Bootstrap (5 years), Html 5 (5 years), Jquery (2 years), Php (2 years), MySQL (2 years), HTML 5, Photoshop (10+ years), Illustrator (10+ years), Video Editing (10+ years), CSS3 (5 years), JQuery (3 years), phpmyadmin (3 years), Javascript (Less than 1 year), Wordpress (2 years), c# (Less than 1 year), Indesign (3 years) Links https://www.roostershoppe.com Assessments Graphic Design — Highly Proficient July 2019 Using graphic design techniques and producing visual media to communicate concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/oobw7zalunjfhhnp Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.