Web Services Coordinator <span class="hl">Web</span> Services Coordinator Associate Director of Web Services - Wilkes University Wilkes-Barre, PA Detail oriented graduate student studying Instructional Technology. Currently a web designer & developer with  experience building CMS driven websites, HTML5, CSS3, Adobe Creative Suite and various web-based resources. Able to  effectively communicate and collaborate with a variety of designers, developers, and faculty. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Services Coordinator Wilkes University October 2017 to Present Provided content management training, troubleshooting, technical support and consulting for content providers,  including faculty and staff members of Wilkes University.  ? Created presentations, user guides and job aids for content providers as necessary in training program.  ? Analyzed and repaired accessibility issues in the front end of wilkes.edu website.  ? Served as lead developer on daily web updates and larger web development projects with CMS based website. Instructional Programs Designer & Developer Penn State University May 2017 to October 2017 Designed and developed the front-end for multiple Polymer Web Components for Drupal based learning system.  ? Workflow included collaboration with programmers, developers, and graphic designers using GitHub and Slack.  ? Converted 10+ flash animations of chemical reactions into animated web components using GSAP library for science courses and better accessibility for students. Web & Computer Services Intern February 2016 to April 2017 Redesigned and developed North Central Library District WordPress website from concept to completion.  ? Maintained, updated, and edited content regularly on 30+ websites to ensure currency of information.  ? Evaluated usability of web pages, implemented improvements based on client and user feedback. Web Designer Store Next Door Consignment Shop August 2016 to December 2016 Collaborated with a team of 5 professionals to create WordPress and WooCommerce driven responsive website.  ? Consulted with clients to outline website goals, illustrate wireframe and mockups, and site functionality.  ? Designed a user-friendly architecture by developing site navigation, and organizing web content. Education Master of Science in Instructional Technology Wilkes University - Wilkes-Barre, PA May 2020 Bachelor of Science in Web and Interactive Media Pennsylvania College of Technology - Williamsport, PA May 2017 Skills CMS (Less than 1 year), CONTENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (Less than 1 year), BOOTSTRAP (Less than 1 year), HTML5 (Less than 1 year), ILLUSTRATION (Less than 1 year) Links http://brittanyterpstra.com Additional Information ? Deep knowledge of web technologies and comfortable learning and applying new technologies.  ? Excellent interpersonal skills necessary to deal effectively with coworkers, faculty, and other departments.  ? Designed and developed websites and web-based resources from concept to completion, including post  production site maintenance.    TECHNICAL SKILLS  ? Adobe Creative Suite - Illustrator, Photoshop, InDesign, Premiere, and Experience Design  ? Web Development - HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, WordPress CMS, WooCommerce, Bootstrap Framework