UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Columbia, SC Relocating to the Columbia, SC area near the end of August. Looking for onsite or remote Front-End centered development work. Work Experience UI Developer United Shore April 2018 to Present Develop user friendly, responsive experiences across external and internal applications. Smoke  test in different environments to insure code quality as well as provide QA with testing support through cross-broswer testing and multi-device testing. Enforce coding standards and best  practices for HTML, LESS/SCSS, and JavaScript for all of Application Development. Worked with  one other UI developer to create the user interface of Settlement Agent Portal and the revolutionary closing tool, UClose 2.0.  Currently using Vue.js and Vuex in a large-scale single page application that will act as a suite of tools for marketing material creation, manipulation, and social sharing, as well as client  retention management tools. Web Developer Innovative Network Solutions March 2017 to April 2018 Responsible for all stages of website creation on the front and back end from initial design and architecture to development, deployment and management. Developed and maintained the  functionality for internal and external client websites primarily using HTML, CSS, JavaScript/- jQuery, MySQL, and PHP. Assisted in building a custom Content Management System and built  client websites and disaster recovery management systems with it. Education Associate Skills Front End, UI, Javascript, Sitefinity (1 year), SCSS, LESS, Vue, JQuery, HTML, Git, Razor, TFS, Agile, Scrum, UX, User Experience Design, CSS Assessments Technical Support — Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/eiqiucg9gksc-sxo Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.