Web Developer - Freelance <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> - Freelance Web Developer - Freelance - EYOW INC Chicago, IL To obtain a web developer position to enhance my coding skills Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer - Freelance EYOW INC - Chicago, IL 2018 to Present • Develop functional and appealing web- and mobile-based applications based on usability.  • Primary focus on developing sites, testing, deployment, and site updates.  • Displayed Strong knowledge of web technologies including  • Building and maintaining web applications based on business needs.  • Involved all web applications phases analysis, design development, implementation, testing, and deployment  • Established, developed, and maintained positive customer relationships. Web Developer Northwestern University - Evanston, IL November 2017 to May 2018 Coding Bootcamp  • Graduate of Northwestern University - School of Professional Studies - full-stack (MERN)  • Coding boot camp, I learned how to build a web application from frontend to the backend.  • The User experience, the design, and layout of the web applications to the functionality of the buttons. Worked and connected with external and internal APIs to send retrieved data across the  internal. Also, we incorporate how to aggregate information into both MongoDB And MySQL. QA Analyst AQL TECH - Park Ridge, IL October 2016 to September 2017 • Worked closely with Developers to identify all key functional processes across applications.  • Working Knowledge of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Responsible writing use cases and software requirements specifications.  • Ensure team members are complying with SDLC processes.  • Experience both UI and back end testing  • Used tooling to assess the validity of data sets.  • Hold and facilitate test plan/case reviews with cross-functional team members.  • Considers dependencies in test case design and execution. Education Bachelor's Skills Firebase, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Python, Jquery, Front End, HTML5