Full Stack Web Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Web Developer Great Neck, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Web Developer Creative Bench May 2010 to Present Freelance Full Stack Web Developer    • Provide web development, updates and maintenance for fully custom websites, including both the front-end (HTML, HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, CSS, CSS3, SASS/SCSS, LESS) and back-end (PHP) programming with or without frameworks such as React and Laravel; MySQL database architecture and integration; server setup (Apache, CLI, DNS); wireframing and prototyping; graphic design with a modern flair; web page layout with cross-browser compatibility for both desktop and mobile users, utilizing Responsive Web Design, including Bootstrap, Foundation and Pure CSS; and user experience/user interface (UX/UI).    • Serve as front-end developer and back-end engineer for e-commerce stores, including product and landing pages, shopping carts, checkout flows, and website integration with payment gateways. Skyrocketed sales by as much as 130% after either jettisoning or revising preexisting sites.    • Conceive branding and marketing strategies, design logos, and wage digital advertising campaigns including management, banner design, ad copy, deployment on Google Ads and other online platforms, HTML email, targeting, tracking, A/B testing, and performance metric analysis, catapulting ROI by as much as 80%.    • Create custom content management systems (CMS), set up affiliate dashboards, and build internal company user portals to streamline workflow, boosting employee efficiency and productivity by as much as 40%. Carry out RESTful or SOAP API integration and take advantage of WordPress and Drupal.    • Utilize SEO best practices, including both onsite and offsite ranking factors, employ XML sitemaps and structured data, call upon .htaccess and mod_rewrite for search engine friendly URLs, and analyze website traffic and performance, using Google Analytics, Tag Manager and Search Console, among other tools.    • Generate and update web content, including writing and polishing articles and copy; sourcing photos; creating, altering, retouching and optimizing images with Photoshop; using other Adobe Creative Cloud graphic and video editing applications, such as Illustrator, Animate, InDesign, Premiere Pro, After Effects and Media Encoder; and compiling and scrubbing data. Create animated presentations and design elements, using HTML5 canvas or Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG), increasing visual impact and user engagement.    • Optimize, redesign and debug code, speeding execution, reducing load time, and increasing page responsiveness. Develop modular and reusable code and libraries.    • Contribute to corporate projects, collaborating with in-house team. Use Git for version control.    • Solve problems, think creatively, offer ideas, learn quickly, organize methodically, and meet deadlines.    Website Publisher    • Founded, developed, programmed, launched and managed an entertainment website that at its height had over three million unique monthly visitors and ranked in the top 25,000 websites worldwide. The pop culture site featured news, biographies, information, photo galleries, forums and more on a wide range of celebrities, television series and movies.    • Custom built a back end that went well beyond the typical CMS setup to handle over 15,000 subjects in its database. Upon entering a subject, it would extract content from IMDb, Google Images and other sources that the user could select for inclusion and then amend or modify, as well as tailor the SEO. The back end also allowed for a down-to-the-minute breakdown of logged website traffic that could group individual page statistics by subject, categories (e.g. all cast members of a TV show), referrers, geographical location, or other useful criteria and compare them to any previous timeframe to easily identify the fastest rising and falling trends in order to pinpoint the most worthwhile areas of content to feature on the site and upon which to concentrate future efforts. The back end moreover automatically performed a variety of tasks, including culling press releases and headlines from a multitude of sources; censoring the forums and user comments; resizing photos on the fly with ImageMagick for various site placements; inserting internal links into copy sitewide; and generating up-to-date XML sitemaps, as well as social media and RSS feeds, linking to the latest articles and content. The administrative abilities further included a monitoring system for employees, enabling the approval or disapproval of their work, after reviewing their redlined edits, prior to publishing; the archiving of all changes; and the tracking of their cumulative productivity and time logged.    • Built the site for speed, minimizing load time with autogenerated CSS sprites for all thumbnail photos and an innovative caching system, using MemCache, that divided web pages into separately cached sections, enabling the custom serving of all individual ad tags, independent of one another, as determined by visitor geolocation, via GeoIP, and page count, as well as specific ad network criteria, to optimize ad revenue. The front end also featured a responsive web design, tag clouds, dynamic menus and onsite searching functionality.    • Directed several freelance employees, who helped author and update content; managed a multitude of advertising networks as well as direct sales to individual advertisers, maximizing profit; aggregated content from media partners, including television networks and movie studios; identified trending subjects for either inclusion or further content expansion; and adjusted site architecture and content for SEO, according to changing search engine algorithms.    Product Developer    • Consumer product development, engineering, and prototyping using SolidWorks, Fusion 360 and Simplify3D. Education Bachelor of Arts Harvard University - Cambridge, MA Skills Javascript, React, PHP, HTML, HTML 5, CSS, CSS3, MySQL, JQuery, Ajax, User Experience Design, User Interface Design, E-Commerce, CMS, Adobe, Photoshop, Illustrator, SEO, Solidworks