Sr. FullStack Java developer Sr. FullStack Java <span class="hl">developer</span> Sr. FullStack Java developer - Morgan Stanley Springfield, IL • 7+ years of extensive experience in web analysis, design, development and implementation of client/server technologies. Extensively worked with HTML, CSS, JavaScript, DOM, jQuery, AJAX, JSON and Angular JS using Java/J2EE and related web technologies.  • Experience in Requirement gathering, Analysis and the preparation of technical specifications.  • Experience in developing Front-End and User Interface using Struts, JSP, jQuery, Ajax, JavaScript, Angular JS, HTML, DHTML, CSS, XML, JSON and spring-boot.  • Experience in using Bootstrap framework to build responsive web pages.  • Experience in working with software tools and IDE such as Microsoft Visual Studio, WebStorm, Eclipse, Sublime and Notepad++.  • Experience in developing both front end and back end applications using JSTL, HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3,JavaScript, EXTJS4, , Angular JS , React JS, Redux, Backbone.JS, Tiles, MVC, Adobe Flex4, DHTML, Ext JS, Knockout JS, Polymer, Node JS, SAAS, D3, RWD, DOM, DOJO, Flash, Gulp, PHP, Python, Ruby, Perl, XHTML, jQuery, and Ajax, jenkins.  • Good experience in testing tools such as Selenium, Cucumber, Jasmine, Junit and TestNg.  • Experienced in using version controls such as SVN, GIT, TFS and build tools such as Ant, Maven and continuous integration tools such as Jenkins.  • Hands on experience in SQL server and Oracle database design and development in writing Constraints    • Experienced in implementing Service oriented architecture and Web Services using SOAP, RESTFUL.  • Used Spring Boot to create the project quickly and leverage auto configurations and embedded deployments.  • Experience in working with Service Oriented Architecture, which includes Universal Description and Discovery Integration (UDDI) lookups and Web Services Description Language (WSDL) using SOAP protocol.  • Developed web applications by implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture and considerable experience in various front-end technologies.  • Expertise in XML technologies such as DTD/Schemas, DOM, SAX and XSLT.  • Extensively used different Tag Libraries like JSF Tags, Struts Tags, JSTL, Spring Tags, DisplayTag, XML/XSD.  • Excellent understanding of linking databases with web applications using JDBC and ORM techniques like Hibernate (HBM and Annotations) and JPA (Java Persistence API).  • Implementing Inheritance and Entity Relations in tables using Hibernate framework.  • Experience in manipulating database records using SQL, PL/SQL queries.  • Exposed to Web services SOAP (Simple object access protocol) and WSDL ( Web Services Description Language).  • Experience in implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using Web Services (SOAP, WSDL, Restful, JAX-WS and UDDI).  • Good knowledge on Amazon Web Services(AWS), Amazon Cloud Services like Elastic Compute Cloud(EC2)  • Experience on AWS platform and its dimensions of scalability including VPC, EC2, ELB, S3, and EBS, ROUTE 53.  • AWS EC2 and Cloud watch services. CI/CD pipeline management through Jenkins. Automation of manual tasks using Shell scripting.  • Experience in the use of Defect Tracking & Version Management Tools such as SVN, CVS, GIT.  • Experienced in Unit Testing and generating of Test cases for web applications.  • Experience with unit testing the applications using Junit and JMeter.  • Worked on continuous integration using Jenkins/Hudson.  • Work Experience with testing tools and applications such as JUnit, Mockito, FireBug, FirePoster, SoapUI and performed Unit testing, integrated testing, and closely worked with QA team in preparation of Test plans.  • Proficient in RDBMS concepts like writing SQL Queries, Functions, Stored Procedures and PL/SQL Packages and have knowledge on NoSQL Databases MongoDB and CouchDB. Work Experience Sr. FullStack Java developer Morgan Stanley - Springfield, IL June 2017 to Present Description: Morgan Stanley is an American multinational financial service providing Investment banking, Asset management, Commercial banking, Investment management etc. Implementation of online account management system that provides secure online access to customer (clients) accounts and keeps track of daily account activity like withdrawals, deposits, payments, and trades. This project is to upgrade existing application which is built using Struts, Hibernate older versions.    Responsibilities:  • Design, code, develop and test our enterprise-level Java application  • Prepared high level technical documents for each JIRA story.  • Developed Modules for the Front-end applications and integrating them to the Back-end using Spring & Hibernate framework.  • Developed UI screens for major module using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap and Java Script  • Expertise in using AngularJS and RESTful web services and implemented connection pooling for database access  • Writing the front end look and appearance for the screens using Javascript, AJAX, and jQuery  • Developed components to render the user interface using Angular2.0 /Typescript&HTML.  • Involved in migrating the whole code base of Angular 1.4 to Angular2.0.  • Developed JSP and HTML5 pages using CSS as part of the presentation layer.  • Used core java extensively with Multithreading and Collections.  • Implemented MVC architecture by using Spring to send and receive the data from front-end to business layer.  • Implemented Spring MVC, dependency Injection (DI) and Aspect oriented programming (AOP) features along with Spring data.  • Implement modules into NodeJS to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Developed real time tracking of class schedules using NodeJS (socket.io based on socket technology, Express JS framework  • Implemented the business layer by using Hibernate with Spring DAO and also developed mapping files and POJO java classes using ORM tool.  • Develop various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and React Redux library  • Testing the functionalities in terms of requests and responses for the front-end JSON files.  • Worked with XML, XSLT for building up & transforming the xml files  • Developed messaging Components using Spring Integration and JMS to send messages from one application to other application internally.  • Developed various GWT customized widgets, services and DAO classes for the above systems using servlets, Core Java and GWT RPC/Ajax calls  • Involved in Spring RestfulAPI Design & development to make other systems interaction.  • Developed REST Web Services using JAX-RS and consumed the Web Services to retrieve data from different applications using REST protocol  • Creating and maintaining architecture for Restful API using Spring Boot.  • Experience in AWS using EC2, Dynamo DB, RDS, S3, VPC and IAM services.  • Used AWS SDK for connection to Amazon S3 buckets as it is used as the object storage service to store and retrieve the media files related to the application.  • Responsible for using AWS Console and CLI for deploying and operating AWS services.  • Used Data Access Object (DAO) pattern to introduce an abstraction layer between the business logic layer and the persistent layer.  • Developed server side application to interact with database using Spring Boot and Hibernate.  • Worked with JDBC programs using Oracle and MySQL databases and developed SQL and PL/SQL for Oracle to process the data.  • Involved in the implementation of DAO using Spring-Hibernate ORM.  • Used Oracle 11g as backend database using Windows OS. Involved in development of Stored procedures  • Executing tasks on XML registry, XSLT/XQuery and transformation capabilities.  • Performed deployment of applications on IBM WebSphere Application Server  • Used Agile methodology for the software development process.  • Used GIT as source control tool for branching, merging and maintain code versions in the repository enabled using Maven Versioning Capability.  • Used JUnit framework for unit testing of application and Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JDK 1.6, Core Java, GWT, Spring 3.0, spring-boot, JMS,UNIX,JVM, AJAX, SQL, REST, XML, IBM Websphere, Restful, Rest, Agile, Log4j, Maven, Angular2.0, Bootstrap, Eclipse, CSS, AngularJS, NodeJS, Ajax, JIRA, Javascript, DAO, HTML, jQuery, JAX-RS, XSLT, JSON, JSP, Oracle, SVN, Maven, Hibernate, RESTful, SOA, Spring MVC. Sr. FullStack Java developer GMAC Insurance and Financial Services - Salem, NC October 2015 to May 2017 Project Description: GMAC Insurance and Financial Services Business Foundation System (BFS) is an insurance policy underwriting system under the Commercial Small Insurance vertical. This application provides quotes for customers and enables agents to issue and renew insurance. The underwriters can update with the new rates and edits. Property and liability, auto insurance, worker's compensation are the three lines of businesses supported by this application. It also interacts with some third party applications and has the facility of accepting quote requests from other vendors.    Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile methodology and involved in daily SCRUM meetings, sprint planning, showcases and retrospective and used JIRA as a tracking tool for the sprints.  • Designed the front-end screens using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap and Spring Boot.  • Developed Angular controllers, services, filters and developed HTML templates with various Angular directives such as ng-app, ng-controller, ng-repeat, ng-if,ng-show, ng-hide,ng-change, ng-blur etc..  • Developed Grid's used in the system using Slickgrid and created custom grid directive to make the component reusable.  • Used various Angular UI Bootstrap components such as calendars, masks, uploaders, sliders, alerts, modal dialogs etc., for developing the UI.  • Took part in setting up the routing configuration using Angular UI router for various views and sub views.  • Configured Gulp to perform various UI build and test related tasks and used NodeJS NPM and Bower to manage the dependencies.  • Developed Angular services making use of resource service to perform REST API calls to the backend.  • Developed unit test cases using Jasmine and Karma and performed end to end testing using Protractor and Selenium  • Developed REST controllers using Spring Data REST to serve the UI with required JSON data.  • Developed REST exception handling controller advices to respond to bad requests and server side exceptions.  • Used complete annotation driven approach to develop the application using Spring Boot and was also involved in setting up the Spring bean profiling.  • Used Spring Boot for building application with Spring initializers and bootstrapping the build configuration and develop custom solutions that act upon Jenkins information in authentic time.  • Consumed SOAP/ JAX-WS based web services using Spring framework and used SOAP UI for testing these services.  • Used REST Client and POSTMAN to test the rest based services and used Junit and Mockito to test the middleware services.  • Worked with Middleware using Message driven by POJO (MDP) after creating QCF, Queue on WebSphere server, and using JMS template for asynchronous functionality for multiple users.  • Used Hibernate in the persistence layer and implemented DAO's to access data from database.  • Used Node.js to run Grunt tasks and build properly the project (compile, minify, concat etc.) and Implement modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements. Used GruntJS, BowerJS, Express from NodeJS.  • Involved in enhancing existing MEAN (MongoDB, Express, Angular and Node) stack applications and provided the required support.  • Build REST web service by building Node.js Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front end jQuery Ajax calls.  • Made the integration of data in several applications in favor JSON documents with dynamic schemas using MongoDB (NOSQL) database.  • Created various MongoDB collections and wrote services to store and retrieve user data from for the application on devices and used Mongoose API in order to access the MongoDB from NodeJS.  • Used GIT as version control system, to keep track of all the work & all changes, allowing several developers to collaborate and used Maven as build and configuration tool and Jenkins for continuous integration tool.  • Involved in configuration and usage of Apache Log4J for logging and debugging purposes. Used RAD as IDE tool to develop the application.  • Prepared Documentation for Unit Test Plan and Unit Test Results for the QA purpose. Participated in the release night shakeouts/overnight deliveries and QA Support.  • Used Veracode for application security scanning and remediated the flaws that were identified in the code.  • Took part in setting up the application with Jenkins and AWS and is involved in builds and deployments to Tomcat server.    Environment: Java, STS, Tomcat 7, Gulp, Spring Tool Suite, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, MongoDB, RESTful Web Service, Oracle, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, AngularJS, Node Js, Express, JavaScript, GIT, JMS, Jenkins, Agile, JIRA tool, Selenium, Log4j, Maven, AWS. Java/J2EE Developer Barclays Bank - Wilmington, DE April 2014 to September 2015 Project Description: Barclays is a British multinational banking and financial services company headquartered in Delaware. It is a universal bank with operations in retail, wholesale and investment banking, as well as wealth management, mortgage lending and credit cards.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing use cases with the help of business analyst team and developed technical requirement documents. Helped the client project management team to identify the suitable technology and tools required for the projects.  • Implemented J2EE Design Patterns like MVC, Service Locator, Session Facade and the persistence layer using Hibernate-ORM.  • Developed Web Services to consume those Web Services as well other enterprise wide Web Services.  • Developed several REST web services supporting both XML and JSON to perform tasks. REST web services leveraged by both web and mobile applications. Prepared technical artifacts including UML Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams etc., using Rational Rose.  • Developed the UI Screens using JSP, Struts, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and did the client side validation with the JavaScript.  • Designed User Interface using Java Server Faces (JSF), HTML, CSS3, jQuery and AngularJS and XML in a responsive grid layout.  • Designed and developed the UI layer using JAVA 1.5, JSP1.1 and Struts2.  • Used Spring Framework for developing the application and used JDBC to map to Oracle database.  • Used AngularJS for the two way data-binding allowing auto synchronization of models and views  • Use of SOAP UI to verify the WSDL end point URL.  • Used Connection Pooling to get JDBC connection and access database procedures.  • Extensive use of Collection Framework features like Map, Object, List to retrieve the data from Web Service, manipulate the data to incorporate Business Logic and save the data to Oracle database.  • Used Multithreading to simultaneously process tables as and when a specific user data is completed in one table.  • Wrote various SQL, PL/SQL queries and stored procedures for data retrieval.  • Wrote UNIX Shell scripts and used UNIX environment to deploy the EAR and read the logs and JavaScript was used for the client side validations.  • Used JBOSS and Tomcat for application deployment and stage testing and Created Junit test cases to test the codes and validate the release.  • Junit, log4j were used for unit testing and as logging frameworks.  • Involved in high level meetings for crucial decisions and handled tickets to resolve issues.  • Involved in putting proper review processes and documentation for functionality development.  • Involved in code reviews, test case reviews and bug fixing using Jira tracking systems.  • Providing support and guidance for Production and Implementation Issues.    Environment: JBoss Server, MVC, UNIX,J2EE, Servlets, JSP,EJB, Hibernate 3.0, AJAX, XML, CSS 3, HTML, JSON, REST, SOAP UI, Spring 3,JavaScript, Oracle 10g/11i, JQuery, JUnit, AngularJS, Junit, Struts 1.2.8,Framework, Core Java, JSP's, Action Components, Tom Cat Web Server. Java Developer American Group - Cincinnati, OH January 2012 to March 2014 Description: AG is an American multinational insurance corporation with more than 88 million customers in 130 countries. AIG companies employ over 64,000 people in 90 countries.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Application based on J2EE using Hibernate, spring, JSF frameworks and SOAP/REST web services, Web Sphere Integration Developer (WID) Tool to develop WPS components.  • Implemented business layer using Core java, Spring Beans using dependency injection, Collections Multithreading, spring annotations, and Spring MVC components  • Developed Interactive GUI screens using HTML and JSP and data validation using Java Script.  • Developed UI using JSP and AJAX Call in JSP pages, business implementation in Servlets and Struts action class.  • Established a JSON contract to make a communication between the JS pages and java classes.  • Created Spring MVC components like Dispatch servlets, configure Request mapping annotation controllers, view resolver components.  • Used Spring Beans to encapsulate business logic and Implemented Application MVC Architecture using Spring MVC framework.  • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML file that contains object declarations and dependencies.  • Used AngularJS as a JavaScript library to bind data on html elements and integrated with REST based services returning JSON data.  • Deployed the application on to Apache Tomcat application server.  • Used MySQL database for data persistence.  • Worked on JAX-WS, JAXB Web Services using SOAP and JAX-RS, Jersey for Restful WebServices.  • Worked on Agile, SCRUM development methodology and built the application with Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Implemented the logging framework in the SOA environment.  • Performed unit testing using JUNIT framework and used Struts Test Cases for testing Action Classes.  • Used Maven as the build tool for the application.  • Developed Python scripts to automate the deployments to the WebSphere application server  • Used Rational Clear Case and Clear Quest for version control and change management  • Extensively used Log4J for logging,  • Worked on UNIX Shell Scripting tasks.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Spring, Spring MVC, JVM, Hibernate, JSON, JAX-WS, JAXB, WebServices, MySQL, JSF, AngularJS, SOAP, Rest, log4j, JUnit, Java7, JMS, JAXB, XML, Ajax, JQuery8, JavaScript8, Maven, Unix, Shell, Rest, Jenkins Web Developer Forsys Software - IN October 2010 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  • Interacted with Business users and Analysts for requirement analysis and feasibility studies.  • Developed view pages using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON and custom tag libraries.  • Extensive usage of Java beans with JSP in the project.  • Designed pages and implemented pagination feature using Display Tag Library.  • Developed Code with various design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Factory, Facade, Business Objects and Transfer Objects.  • Developed custom tags, jsp pages using Struts  • Developed Action Form, Action classes for implementing business logic using Struts Framework.  • Developed front-end validations by using JavaScript  • Designed and developed JDBC connection objects for the data retrieval and update.  • Developed connection pooling method to avoid the waiting for database connection.  • Participating in unit and integration testing  • Wrote SQL and PL/SQL for the database operations  • Implemented the email notifications using JMS.  • Used SVN for the concurrent development in the team and for code repository.  • Developed use cases, sequence diagrams and preliminary class diagrams for the system using UML.  • Involved in the development of XML parsing components using DOM.  • Responsible for creating and developing re-usable components and System Interfaces to interact with external Systems.  • Code Reviews, code re-factoring and troubleshooting.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Servlets , JSP, HTML, CSS, Java Script, Struts , JDBC, JMS, DB2, XML, Ant1.6.5, Oracle10g, apache tomcat, Eclipse 3.3.2, Tortoise SVN,ANT. Skills Awt, Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jax-rpc, Jax-ws, Jboss, Jms, Jndi, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Jstl, Rmi, Servlets, Struts Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Language Core Java, C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL  Java/J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, JMS, JNDI, RMI, EJB, AWT, Applets, Multi-threading, Java Networking  Java Frameworks Spring MVC, Struts 2.0, JSF  Application/ Web Servers WebLogic, IBM WebSphere, JBoss, Tomcat  ORM Frameworks Hibernate, JPA, Ibatis  Web Technologies JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XML, XSLT, XHTML, DHTML, CSS, SASS, LESS, HTML, AngularJS, React JS, Ext JS, backbone JS.  Spring Framework Spring IOC, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring MVC  Database Server MySQL, Oracle, DB2, SQL Server, MongoDB, Cassandra  IDE Eclipse, RAD, WSAD, NetBeans, IntelliJ  Web Services REST, SOAP, JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, WSDL, AXIS  Version Control GIT, CVS, SVN  Build Tools ANT, Maven, Gradle, Grunt, Gulp  Methodologies Agile, Scrum, Water-Fall, Rapid Application Development  Modeling Tools Microsoft Visio, Rational Rose  Operating System Windows, Linux, UNIX  Tools Apache Camel, ESB, cucumber  Testing Junit, Jasmine, Karma, Selenium, Jenkins, Docker  AWS skills EC2, S3, EBS, CLI, Route53, Dynamo DB, RDS, VPC, ELB, IAM    Education Detailes: Bachelos in Computer Science JNTUH University 2010