Mendota Heights - Web Application Developer Mendota Heights - <span class="hl">Web</span> Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Application Developer - Sigma Beauty Burnsville, MN I’m truly passionate about my work and always eager to connect with other Developers and Business field people. While I enjoy all aspects of my job, I think my favorite stage of a project is working with the client or business unit leader to understand his or her business objectives. As we go through that collaborative process, the ideas start to flow and that’s always the fun part. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Mendota Heights - Web Application Developer Sigma Beauty January 2016 to Present Magento 2 Development  • Performed updates starting from Magento 2.2.2 to Magento 2.2.9 with all existing extensions.  • Restored multiple impaired Magento 2 environments, restored databases and ensured instances  are in good working condition.  • Discovered and fixed multiple Magento 2 bugs, provided resolution to Magento support team.  • Setup Bazaarvoice integration to deliver and display customer reviews on product pages.  • Installed and setup stock alerts extension to notify customer if particular SKU/product is back  in stock.  • Integrated Tax Jar extension and performed series of tax syncs in order to feed Magento 2 with dynamic tax classes.  • Introduced and leveraged Region Manager extension that allows to control and adjust specific  region codes, necessary for Radial fulfillment center.  • Rebuilt catalog price rule script to allow Sigma Beauty apply promotions rules to special price  and display discounted special price for the whole product catalog.  • Readjusted PHP memory limit; performed series of tests, ensured Cron Jobs work correctly.  • Integrated After Pay payment solution for customers, to pay in installments, ensured that Sigma  Beauty launches extension and promotion on time.  • Build and generated custom Magento 2 sales reports within Advanced Reporting.  • Troubleshooted and fixed daily requests/issues reported by Sigma Beauty team, implemented  multiple deployments and updates to Magento cloud.  • Introduced and customized Store Locator for Sigma Beauty website, to help customers find  Sigma Beauty products in stores.  • Installed and configured Count fraud protections system in Magento 2.  • Updated elastic search to latest version to comply with Magento 2 standards.  • Actively worked with New Relic reporting to trace vulnerabilities and errors that Sigma  Beauty encountered.  • Implemented Google Recaptcha, to secure Sigma Beauty website while waiting on Magento 2  security patches.  • Fixed bugs in vendor's extensions, such as After Pay and Amnesty, ensured, that extensions are  performing properly, shared working code with vendors.  • Introduced Amnesty Promo extension that auto adds promotional items to the cart, which lead  to customer satisfaction and raised level of conversion.  • Leveraged multiple product feeds using XML to feed social platforms Facebook and Google  • Setup and installed Magento 2 development environments on AWS Linux servers.  • Performed multiple Linux servers' updates in order to comply with Magento technical specs.  • Introduced and setup PeopleVox WMS, built warehouse integration from scratch and connected system with mobile scanners and desktop devices.  • Used Zynk to interconnect Radial Fulfillment center, People Vox WMS and Magento 2, ensured that communication is seamless and instant.  • Introduced and set up Zynk middleware integration for Sigma Beauty platforms on AWS  Windows server.  • Managed backend integration and development between implementation partner CORRA and Sigma Beauty team.  • Coordinated customer and order data migration from Kibo e-commerce platform to Magento 2.  Kibo Development  • Developed and integrated Java applications to ensure correct data flow in Kibo platform.  • Modified existing Java based Radial fulfillment integration application to correct errors and to improve performance and functionality.  • Set up Parse Bitnami instance and integrated Mongo DB on Amazon Web Services for Sigma  Beauty Mobile push notifications that resulted in traffic and sales increase on the website.  • Implemented content delivery network (CDN) on Amazon Web Services.  • Wrote robust script for SkuVault warehouse management system to integrate API call  functionality that will feed Kibo and Radial platforms with inventory data.  • Designed Java script for existing Kibo - Radial integration that adds "Simple Product" to every  order through back-end, that eliminated manual data entry.  • Integrated C# API connector for Kibo - Salesforce integration using Visual Studio software;  ensured customer data is properly uploaded and managed in Sales Force.  • Generated Salesforce data exports using PHP script.  • Developed Java code for Blue Core integration that uploads unsubscribed customer e-mails in Listrak system.  • Partnered with German Marketing agency Trac Delight and wrote Product Feed using Java  script to engage business development and marketing efficiency.  • Implemented "Share Your Shopping Cart" project for Kibo e-commerce that allows users to share their cart with their relatives and friends, helped to improve sales and conversion.  • Managed team of two software engineers to improve software delivery practices through automation, development and process improvement. Mankato - Web/Software Developer Intern Taylor Corporation January 2014 to December 2015 Developed in C++ and Microsoft Visual Studio to create Multi-platform file and order  management system with ability to implement XML to XSLT conversion for Precision Press.  • Created web based mobile application using Objective-C for Apple and Java for Android.  • Created user role-based script using C++ programming language, integrated script in HTML/CSS based website to create a login page for specific customer segment that could  view certain product variations. Web/Application Developer Intern Minnesota State University Mankato May 2012 to December 2015 • Implemented Calendar for marketing department using PHP script and MySQL database, integrated application with web interface with custom built login, preformed Unit Testing.  • Interacted with different university departments to gather necessary requirements and plan  proper software development approach.  • Designed and implemented various web applications and integrations that were serving faculty  and students.  • Managed existing web resources and maintained proper university styling to assure the compliance and professional appearance. Software Developer Intern Allianz Life Insurance of North America June 2015 to August 2015 • Worked as developer on data lineage tool using Visual Studio 2013, C#, Subversion, XML, SQL Server and Oracle.  • Performed unit testing and script analysis to ensure that software does not have any bugs and is  ready to serve various department needs within the company.  • Implemented technical documentation for various software and integrations, created software  presentations and demos for future users.  • Interfaced closely with Allianz business analysts, developers and technical support  to determine optimal specifications for software development cycles. Freelancer Web Developer Self-Employed May 2010 to May 2012 Designed and built websites for external clients ranging from student organizations  to small businesses using HTML, Java Script and CSS.  • Integrated web applications with WordPress and Joomla platforms using back-end connectors.  • Implemented SEO optimization for websites with low customer flow, ensured that website  design was professional, and content was suitable for search engines.  • Designed HTML/CSS templates based on business requirements, ensured that website was  attracting customers, using google analytics tool. Europe, Moldova - IT Intern Stefsotra Construction Company December 2009 to May 2010 • Implemented fully functional e-commerce website on Insales e-commerce platform.  • Modified front-end template to align with business specifications and display suitable business  logo and information using HTML/CSS and JavaScript.  • Integrated e-commerce Platform with inventory management software, using Java connector.  • Modified cart page to improve sales to different regions and countries, integrated Google  translate feature for internationalization.    LEADERSHIP EXPERIENCE Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology Minnesota State University December 2015 Skills .NET, VISUAL STUDIO, C#, C++, Git, HTML, PHP, Subversion, XML, ECLIPSE, JAVA, jQuery, DATABASE, DBMS, ORACLE, SQL, CSS, DREAMWEAVER, XCODE, WORDPRESS, Customer Service, Strategic Planning, Vmware, Network Administration, Exchange