UI Developer / Scrum Master UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> / Scrum Master UI Developer / Scrum Master Atlanta, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Developer / Scrum Master Bottomline Technologies - Atlanta, GA October 2014 to Present Created several modules for the banking application within the MVC framework of Backbone.Js with NodeJS  ? Applied test automation tools like sinon, and chai assertion library to frontend code.  ? Created several NodeJS REST endpoints to return mock data  ? Refactored the CSS/LESS rules to reduce duplicate code  ? Worked closely with UX Design team to convert mockups into functional user interfaces  ? Assisted with the critical deployment process of the application for several quarters / release cycles.  ? Led a team of developers to complete several projects while following agile scrum methodologies. Senior Web Developer SoVerse LLC - Atlanta, GA February 2012 to October 2014 Installed several SSL certificates for clients  ? Maintained server firewall using ConfigServer Security & Firewall (CSF)  ? Created responsive, fluid page layouts within a client's existing theme  ? Created HTML email templates for use within Mail Chimp and Constant Contact  ? Developed PHP modules in Drupal 6 to deliver front-end content  ? Worked within a Linux environment to execute server and database level backup and recovery shell scripts.  ? Assumed leadership responsibilities to gather requirements for projects and maintain communication with the client. Web Master Turner Broadcasting - Atlanta, GA March 2011 to December 2011 Responsible for creating dozens of new pages to promote events, products, and players of PGATour.com.  ? Maintained a strong commitment to responsive design practices to ensure optimal viewing at various screen sizes.  ? Integrated PGATour player profiles with Facebook & Twitter APIs, along with several other "generic" social widgets.  ? Created an object-oriented JavaScript application to retrieve JSON & XML data for the player profiles.  ? Troubleshooted cross compatibility issues to deliver an optimal viewing experience for target audience.  ? Refactored several sections of code to deliver better page load times to end-users.  ? Communicated with representatives of PGATour to resolve daily tasks and issues. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems DeVry University - Decatur, GA October 2010 Skills Ajax (Less than 1 year), Javascript (Less than 1 year), Json (Less than 1 year), Linux (2 years), Xml (Less than 1 year), Jira, Scrum, Agile Scrum, Scrum Master, CSM Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/saahir-foux-4456b227 Additional Information Technical Skills    Languages: HTML5, CSS3, ES6, JavaScript, LESS, SASS, AJAX, PHP5, MYSQL, JSON, XML, JAVA  Framworks / Libraries: jQuery, BackboneJS, NodeJS, MongoDB, Prototype, Angular, Bootstrap  Tools: Oracle, Netbeans, Phone Gap, Grunt, Eclipse, Jenkins, GIT, Subversion, Postman, Jira, Membrane Monitor  O/S: Mac, Linux, Windows