Lead Web Developer Lead <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lafayette, IN Web Developer with 6+ years of experience and a passion for web application development. Success in developing a web presence from the ground up - from concept, navigation, layout, and programming to UX and SEO. Skilled at writing well-designed, efficient code using current best practices. Fast learner, hard worker and team player who is proficient in an array of scripting languages and multimedia web tools. Work Experience Lead Web Developer Lafayette, IN June 2015 to Present • Maintain websites and applications, including content updates, account administration, debugging, feature enhancement, testing, documentations, and regular upgrades to ensure web security and system usability.  • Identify current internet and website requirements and participate in planning and execution of projects by organizing, scheduling, executing, and coordinating work assignments to achieve milestone deadlines.  • Support maintenance programming development for web pages and web applications.  • Research new web technologies and recommended purchases and changes in design, security, and software.  • Manage client's social media presence on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and LinkedIn with both organic and ad-based content. Intern Web Developer Skagga - Fort Wayne, IN May 2013 to September 2014 • Developed websites using mobile-first strategies to make websites suitable for all devices.  • Managed websites fixing bugs, redesigning, and implementing new features.  • Generated backend code to support and strengthen a stable, well developed website.  • Learned to work remotely while collaborating with a team. Six Flags Great America - Gurnee, IL May 2012 to August 2012 • Managed two retail stores and led team in training, assistance, and suggestions to better the store as a whole  • Coordinated with management team on department success through store layout and product placement  • Directed interaction with guests to ensure overall park experience satisfaction  • Stock handling and storage Customer service Culvers - Gurnee, IL July 2008 to May 2012 cash handling, multitasking, time management, team work, and cross training Education B.S. in Graphics Taylor University - Upland, IN 2015 Skills Marketing, Ajax, Css, Html, Javascript Links https://theklimts.com