Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Norwich, CT I desire a challenging work environment with room for growth and eventually leadership potential. To that end, I constantly seek out training and tutorials and work with new software as much as possible. Having a wealth of experience improves my capability to meet clients' needs and exceed their expectations for ROI. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Southern Connecticut State University - New Haven, CT June 2017 to Present http://www.southernct.edu  Southern Connecticut State University spent a year migrating content from their existing OUCampus based website to a  Drupal website. As a University Assistant, I helped manage that transition and provided training to faculty and interns for the legacy OUCampus platform as well as contributing to the preparatory refinement of the existing site content.  Languages and Software Used: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, MySQL, Wordpress, Drupal, OUCampus, Bootstrap, Eclipse IDE Web Developer YourMiniCon - Meriden, CT June 2014 to May 2017 http://www.yourminicon.com  YourMiniCon is a pop culture expo held annually in Meriden, CT. Their site is a Wordpress base with a modified theme and several extended plug-ins. In addition to managing the event website and social media, I also managed accounting and  payroll, filing contracts and agreements while processing invoices and accounts receivable.  Languages and Software Used: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, MySQL, Wordpress, Wave Accounting, Hootsuite Web Developer Shorepower Inc - Old Saybrook, CT August 2013 to May 2014 http://www.shorepowerinc.com  Shorepower is an international wholesaler of flashlights and batteries. Their site is a heavily modified Magento installation with several extensions and custom coded modifications, integrating with Salesforce. Most of the modifications dealt with processing sales recovery through shopping cart abandonment and linking to the Email Service Provider to facilitate  transactional emails.  Languages and Software Used: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, MySQL, MSSQL, Salesforce, Magento, Yahoo Small Business Web Developer Grand Light - Seymour, CT November 2012 to July 2013 http://www.lightrestoration.com  Custom-built ASP.NET site for a historical light restoration company. In addition to managing the website, I oversaw a  Summer Internship program that brought in four interns from local colleges to cover digital media production, marketing,  front-end web development, and print media.  Languages and Software Used: HTML, CSS, Javascript, PHP, MySQL, MSSQL, ASP.NET, Photoshop, Indesign, Illustrator Education Associates of Applied Science in Visual Communications ITT Technical Institute - Henderson, NV June 2008 Skills CSS (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), MYSQL (10+ years), PHP (10+ years), XML (4 years), Jquery (5 years), Foundation (2 years), Fedora (3 years), Debian Linux(Ubuntu) (3 years), OUCampus (1 year), Magento (2 years), Drupal (1 year), Joomla (5 years), Wordpress (7 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Adobe Photoshop CS4/5/6 (8 years), Bootstrap (3 years), Front End, HTML5 Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: E-4/Senior Airmen August 1999 to February 2004 Served as Security Forces/Military Police. Commendations: Presidential citations, service medals