Fullstack Java Developer Fullstack Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Fullstack Java Developer - CVS Caremark Jersey City, NJ • Having 7+ years of extensive experience with AWS Certification in Java and J2EE technologies, Object Oriented Technologies, UML, Software Development Life Cycle process - Translation of requirements into functional and technical specifications, designing, developing, testing, implementation & Post Production support using development methodologies like Waterfall, Agile/Scrum, TDD.  • Proficient in concepts like Collection Framework, Multi-threading, Exception Handling, Generics, Annotations, Serialization, Thread pools, JavaBeans and Polymorphism, Swing, hands on experience on Java 8.  • Strong in the fundamentals of object-oriented Java programming and web development using modern tools and frameworks.  • Experience in developing applications using Core Java, Data Structures, Algorithms, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JavaBeans and JDBC.  • Experienced in designing the front-end pages using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, JSF, JSP, JQuery, AJAX, XML, Node JS, Angular JS, TypeScript, Backbone JS, Knockout JS, D3.JS, and Ext.JS.  • Expertise in develop Web and other components using Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and Micro Services Architecture based J2EE applications.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Java/J2EE, Servlets, Struts, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring Boot, EJB, JMS, RMI, JNDI, JDBC, Web Services (SOAP & RESTful services)  • Good understanding of ORM technologies such as Hibernate, iBatis/MyBatis and Spring JDBC.  • Experience in using J2EE Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, Adaption and Data Access Object (DAO), Data Transfer Object (DTO)  • Knowledge in designing and implementing using XML technologies such as XSL, XLST, XML schemas, XPath, XForms, XSL-FO and parsers like SAX, DOM.  • Experience in developing UML diagrams like use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose and MS Visio tool.  • Used Java 1.8 features such as Lambda Expressions to make the code concise and Stream API to increase the performance.  • Experience in SOAP and REST web services technology, Implementing JAX-RS using open source framework such as Jersey and JAX-WS using AXIS2.  • Experience working with object-relational databases such as PostgreSQL and NoSQL document-oriented databases like MongoDB.  • Expertise in implement Cassandra, Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL databases and writing and tuning SQL and PL/SQL queries.  • Experience using GIT, Clear Case, CVS, and SVN for source control and Release Management. Bit Bucket and project Tracking tools like JIRA  • Experience in modeling of Junit for unit and Component testing and Log4J for logging and bug tracking.  • Experience in developing and deploying applications on Cloud Platforms like Amazon Web Services.  • Excellent in deploying the applications in AWS as EC2 instances and created snapshots for the data that had to be stored in AWS S3.  • Defined AWS Security Groups which acted as virtual firewalls that controlled the traffic allowed reaching one or moreEC2 instances.  • Experience on working with Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) Models such as Agile SCRUM & Waterfall Model to ensure code quality, unit testing, and continuous integration (CI)  • Good knowledge of automated CI build and deployment infrastructure and processes for multiple projects using tools like Jenkins, CARA, GIT and Stash.  • Extensive experience in deploying, configuration on Application & Web Servers such as BEA WebLogic, IBM WebSphere and Apache Tomcat Web Server.  • Proficient in SQL and wrote Stored Procedures, Triggers besides writing DDL, DML and transaction queries with development tools like TOAD and Aqua Data Studio.  • Experience in working with IDE'S like Eclipse, RAD, Spring Tool Suite (STS), and Intellij.  • Have extensive experience working on Windows, Linux and UNIX Operating Systems. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Fullstack Java Developer CVS Caremark - Buffalo Grove, IL September 2017 to Present RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Worked in Agile software development lifecycle involving Designing, coding, testing, debugging and support.  • Facilitating requirements gathering sessions and be able to translate business needs into proper solutions.  • Used UML modeling tools like Rational Rose to design and develop high level and comprehensive design modules.  • Responsible for use case diagrams, class diagrams and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose in the Design phase.  • Extensively implemented HTML 5, CSS3, DHTML, XML, JavaScript, Bootstrap, and Angular JS, NodeJs for designing responsive web pages.  • Developed Reactive Single Page Applications (SPA) using Angular JS, Angular2/ Angular4 and created User Controls, Web Forms and performing client-side validations using JavaScript, jQuery and Angular JS.  • Developed reusable and responsive user interface components using Angular JS and Bootstrap.  • Worked on some of the new features of Angular 4 like new if else syntax, ng-templates, form validators, Router etc.  • Designed pages using Angular JS Forms, Validations, Modules, Events, Expressions, Directives, Controllers and filters.  • Used Bootstrap and Angular JS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server  • Created web services with REST through Angular JS services to get XML file data and modified the response data to display in UI.  • Designed and developed features for J2EE-based business activity operational dashboard engine, including the rules and alert engine, webapp components, recoverability, intelligent workflow features, internationalization, and upgradability.  • Developed the Frameworks like spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Spring Cloud, Micro Services, Rest API.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Micro services and develop Spring based application with very less configuration.  • Designed Java components and integrated using Spring framework for Hibernate ORM persistence mechanism. Configured and wired various objects and mapping files in the Spring configuration file. Involved in design, development and maintenance of all the POJO's, configuration files and configuring beans, action classes and associations between them.  • Implemented MVC framework using Spring MVC Framework isolating each layer of the application to avoid complexity of integration and ease of maintenance.  • Used Spring Dependency Injection, String application context features in the application.  • Implemented Spring MVC Validation with annotation and server-side validations for input data.  • Worked with spring and web services with REST by creating restful services using Spring Controller class.  • Enabled Continuous Delivery through Deployment into several environments of Bamboo, Test, QA, Stress and Production using Jenkins.  • Implemented on Behavioral Driven Development applications used cucumber, Gherkins and Python.  • Worked with Cloud technologies like Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Cloud computing infrastructure such as Amazon SQS, Amazon Dynamo DB, Amazon EC2, Amazon S3 and Amazon Red Shift.  • Implemented with Cloud Computing and experience setting up the development environment using Microsoft Azure cloud services, AWS (Amazon Web Services)  • Consumed Web Services (WSDL, SOAP, and UDDI) from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers.  • Used RESTful API and experience in web services, developed using JAX- RS and SOA.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Developed on Continuous deployment/Continuous Integration (CD/CI) tool Jenkins, TeamCity, Bamboo to deploy this application on AWS and used GIT for Version Control of code for incremental development and day-to-day basis to maintain the code history.  • Used Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  • Used Maven build tool  • Developed on NoSQL code gets into production without testing against current production schema and data in test environment.  • Optimized MongoDB CRUD operations and implemented indexing strategies for huge data sets.  • Worked on SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers with databases such as Oracle, MySQL and MS SQL Server.  • Implemented in Application logging Frameworks with Log4j and to build and deploy the application WebSphere Application Servers.  • Involved in Agile Process and used GitHub for version control of the source code.  • Performed Unit Testing using Junit framework for all the migrated modules to ensure complete code coverage.    ENVIRONMENT:  Java, Rational Rose, Agile, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Angular JS, Node JS, Backbone JS, HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, XML, XSTL, Frameworks MVC, Spring boot, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Spring Cloud, Micro Services, AWS, REST API, TypeScript, Jenkins, Teamcity, Bamboo, Eclipse, JIRA, cucumber, Gherkins, Python, GIT, WebSphere, NoSQL, Mongo DB, PostgreSQl, MSSQL, MYSQL, SQL Server, Oracle8i/9i/10g/11g, Log4J, GITHUB, JUnit. Full Stack Developer Freddiemac - McLean, VA June 2016 to August 2017 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Worked on complete life cycle of software development, which included new requirement gathering, redesigning and implementing the business specific functionalities, development, testing.  • Developed web application using Java8, spring, Hibernate, Web services, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Angular.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 4.  • Extensively used Angular JS concepts like controllers, data binding, filters, accessibility, dependency injection, decorators, templates etc.  • Used spring IOC for dependency injection and Spring AOP for cross cutting concerns like logging, security, and transaction management.  • Worked on implementing Microservices architecture by using docker images and deploy them on the AWS ECS services.  • Consumed and produced REST and SOAP Web services within various applications.  • Designed, Configured and deployed Amazon Web Services (AWS) for a multitude of applications utilizing the Amazon cloud formation.  • Worked on core AWS services such as setting up new server (EC2) instances/services in AWS, configuring security groups, setting up Elastic IP's, Auto Scaling and Cloud Formation.  • Took part in setting up the application with Jenkins and AWS and is involved in builds and deployments to Tomcat server.  • Deployed applications into Continuous integration environments like Jenkins to integrate and deploy code on CI environments for development testing.  • Designed, developed and maintained the data layer using Hibernate 3.0 and used Spring ORM to integrate with Hibernate.  • Used Eclipse as IDE, configured and deployed the application onto Tomcat application server using ANT build scripts to automate the build and deployment process.  • Implemented JMS for sending the messages to Rabbit MQ queues and supporting, troubleshooting Rabbit MQ related issues and Used Rabbit MQ to communicate with controller and for business logic.  • Composed and executed MongoDB document scripts to insert, update NoSQL database, automating data changes, reporting and wrote MongoDB client to receive data from AMC for Companies.  • Performed bulk data loading into Cassandra and created data models in CQL (Cassandra Query Language) for customer data.  • Developed the Junit test cases and used GIT as Distributed version control system.  • Used Logback and commons-logging frameworks for logging the application flow  • Maintained JIRA for tracking and updating project defects and tasks ensuring the successful completion of tasks in sprint.    ENVIRONMENT:  Java8, J2EE, Agile, spring, Hibernate, Web services, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Angular JS, Typescript, REST API's, ES6, Bootstrap, spring IOC, Spring AOP, Microservices, Docker, AWS ECS, REST, SOAP, Amazon Web Services, EC2, Tomcat server, Jenkins, Hibernate, Ant, Eclipse, JMS, Rabbit MQ, MongoDB, NoSQL, Cassandra, Junit, GIT, Logback, JIRA. Java Developer Wells Fargo, Charlotte, NCJUN 2015 to May 2016 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Involved in all phases of SDLC like Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the Application.  • Analyzed the system for Requirements and Design by developing Use Case, Class, Sequence and Collaboration Diagrams using Visio as part of UML & created documents.  • Designed User Interfaces using JSP, JavaScript, HTML, CSS and jQuery.  • Used Angular and Bootstrap to develop the user interface to validate the user at client side and provide responsive feedback.  • Ensuring the high performance of the application on mobile devices and desktop.  • As part of AngularJS development have used data-binding and developed controllers, directives, and filters and integrated with the backend-services.  • Developed the entire application implementing MVC Architecture integrating JSF with Hibernate and spring frameworks.  • Used Hibernate Detached Criteria, HQL and written some SQL queries for data retrieving.  • Implemented Spring configuration files for the beans defined and properties to be injected into them using Spring Dependency Injection.  • Used Singleton, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Factory Pattern and DAO design patterns.  • Implemented the Spring-Security and Transaction Management in the Application.  • Developed Spring Framework based RESTFUL Web Services for handling and persisting of requests and Spring MVC for returning response to presentation tier.  • Used spring framework, Spring-AOP, Spring-ORM, Spring-JDBC modules.  • Used iBatis framework for ORM mapping and SQL configuration.  • Designed and developed download and upload framework for batch process with Spring Core module and iBatis as Object Relational Mapping (ORM) framework.  • Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IOC, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for promoting code in various Environments.  • Deployed EC2 instances provisioning on AWS environment and implemented security groups, administered Amazon VPCs.  • Configured Docker container service and build pipe line Jenkins CI/CD tool for Continuous integrating and deploying application on servers.  • Implemented the function to send and receive AMQP messages on RabbitMQ synchronously & asynchronously and send JMS message on the edge device.  • Worked in designing the database and developed Stored procedures, Triggers and Functions for efficient use of data from PostgreSQL database.  • Deployed the application on Apache Tomcat Application Server, and used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications and Maven for build environment.  • Used Tortoise SVN Subversion for software version control and used Log4J to monitor the Error Logs.    ENVIRONMENT  Java, J2EE, UML, JSP, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, jQuery, Angular, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Hibernate, HQL, Spring Dependency Injection, Spring MVC, DAO, Spring-Security, RESTFUL Web Services, Spring-AOP, Spring-ORM, Spring-JDBC, iBatis, Amazon Web Services (AWS), EC2, Jenkins, RabbitMQ, PostgreSQL, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse, SVN, Log4J. Java Developer Callippus Solutions September 2012 to May 2014 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Analyzing System Requirements and preparing System Design document, Mockup documents.  • Full life cycle experience including requirements gathering, business analysis, high level design, detailed design, data design, coding, testing, and creation of functional documentation.  • Implemented Core Java coding and development using Multithreading and various design Patterns.  • Used agile methodology such as extreme programming to improve the quality of code and to meet the change in customer requirements even at the late stage of development process.  • Worked on the web page enhancements using HTML, CSS, Angular, JavaScript, Servlets and JavaBeans.  • Used Hibernate framework in persistence layer for mapping an object-oriented domain model to a database.  • Implemented Hibernate Caching for frequent queries executed against database for reports.  • Implemented various design patterns in the project such as Business Delegate, Session Façade, Data Transfer Object, Data Access Object, Service Locator and Singleton.  • Designed validation component using Struts common's validation framework to validate data, based on the requirement developed validation rules to accommodate special business rules  • Worked on Exposing and consuming SOAP based webservices to integrate application modules  • Involved in coding for the presentation layer using Apache Tiles Framework, AJAX, XML, XSLT and JavaScript.  • Used Rational Clear Case and Clear Quest for version control and change management.  • Used ANT scripts to build the application and deployed on WebSphere Application Server.  • Design and develop XML processing components for dynamic menus on the application.  • Developed build and deployment scripts using Apache ANT to customize WAR and EAR files.  • Developed stored procedures and triggers using PL/SQL in order to calculate and update the tables to implement business logic.  • Focused on Test Driven Development; thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before actually writing the functionality.    ENVIRONMENT:  Java, J2EE, Agile, HTML, CSS, Angular, JavaScript, Servlets, JavaBeans, Hibernate, SOAP, AJAX, XML, XSLT, JavaScript, Rational Clear Case and Clear Quest, ANT, WebSphere, XML, PL/SQL, JUnit. Web Developer Mindsoft Computech February 2011 to August 2012 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Developed the dynamic User Interface using Java Server Pages utilizing Custom Tag Libraries, HTML, CSS, JSP, and JavaScript.  • Involved in analysis, design, and development of the project.  • Developed the enterprise application by integrating JSF/Spring/Hibernate Frameworks.  • Involved in development of cascading style sheets (CSS) to make the HTML documents to be displayed using different output styles.  • Developed the Presentation Layer using MVC Struts Framework and used Tiles Layout for View Transactions and User Activity Monitoring module.  • Participated in designing phase and was involved in drawing Sequence diagrams, State Diagrams, Class Diagrams.  • Application and use of various design patterns such as DAO, Data Transfer Objects, Front Controller, and Business Delegates.  • Involved in development of Business tier with Stateless, Stately Session beans with EJB standards and developed business components  • Followed TDD Test Driven Development and developed test cases by using JUnit for unit testing for each module developed.  • Developed Session Beans which encapsulates the workflow logic.  • Used Log4j logging framework to debug the code.  • Used CVS for the concurrent development in the team and for code repository.  • Deployed applications on Linux cli ent machines.  • Utilized Hibernate/JPA for Object/Relational Mapping purposes for transparent persistence onto the Oracle 10g/9g database for fetching transactions and User Search Module.  • Developed the application using J2EE architecture by using application by using Struts, Servlets and JSP.  • Used Entity Beans to persist the data into database.  • Used JMS to establish message communication.  • Implemented the project using JSP and Servlets based tag libraries.  • Deployed applications on JBoss 4.0 server and Used Web Services-WSDL and SOAP.  • Deployed the EARs and WARs in Web sphere Application server using ANT script.  • Involved in regression testing, evaluating the response times, and resolving the connection pooling issues.    ENVIRONMENT:  Java, JavaScript, J2EE, Servlets, Struts, EJB 3.0, HTML, JSP, CSS, JSF, JMS, JBoss 4.0, SQL Server 2000, Ant, CVS, PL/SQL, MVC, WSDL, DAO, Junit, Hibernate, JPA, SOAP, Eclipse, CVS, Oracle 10g/9g, Linux, log4J. Education Bachelor's Skills J2EE (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), HTML (6 years), JAVA (6 years), SQL (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    JAVA/J2EE TECHNOLOGIES Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, JMS, JNDI, RMI, EJB, JFC/Swing, AWT, Applets, Multi-threading, Java Networking, Struts, Spring, Hibernate  CLOUD PLATFORMS AWS, Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud, Cloud Foundry, Rack Space  AWS SERVICES  Ec2, VPC, S3, Redshift, RDS, Aurora, SQS, SNS, Auto Scaling, Security Groups, ELB, EBS, DynamoDB, Glacier, Code Commit, CodeDeploy, Code Pipeline, CloudFront, CloudFormation    PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES C, C++, Java, SQL, PL/SQL  APPLICATION/ WEB SERVERS: Oracle/BEA Web Logic 8.1/9.1/10.3, IBM WebSphere 5.1/6.0/6.1/7.0, Jboss, Tomcat 5.0.28/6.0, Bug tracking, Jenkins  FRAMEWORKS Struts 2.x/1.x, Spring 3.x/ 2.x, Hibernate 3.x, JSF 1.2/2.0, iBatis  IDES Eclipse 3.x, Spring Tool suite 2.x/3.x, IntelliJ  WEB TECHNOLOGIES  HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, LESS, SASS, XHTML5, JavaScript, Ajax, Jquery, AngularJS, Angular2, Angular4, Bootstrap, NodeJS, JSON, Back Bone JS, Knockout JS, D3.JS    WEB SERVICES JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, SOAP, REST, Restful, SOA, SOAP UI    METHODOLOGIES Agile, Scrum, SDLC  DATABASE SERVERS  Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, DB2, SQL Server 2000/2005/2008, MySQL, Cassandra, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, DynamoDB, Redis, RedShift, MarkLogic    VERSION CONTROL CVS, SVN, Git, Rational ClearCase.  BUILD TOOLS ANT, Maven, Gradle  CONTINUOUS INTEGRATION TOOLS Jenkins, Hudson, Bamboo  TESTING TOOLS SoapUI, Cucumber, Karma, Jasmine, Selenium, Junit, Qunit, JMEter, QTP