Web Application Developer/Analyst <span class="hl">Web</span> Application <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Analyst Web Application Developer/Analyst Queens, NY Work Experience Web Application Developer/Analyst Citigroup - Township of Warren, NJ September 2015 to December 2018 * Member of a remote technology team supporting Finance, Risk and Compliance functions.  o Provided development support for a web portal that managed a high volume of real time business feeds for finance, risk and compliance needs in an agile development environment  o Wrote back end code to improve web portal functionalities in Java, Spring and JMS.  o Provided user support regarding issues with business feeds and web portal functionalities. This involved  running SQL queries to check the status of feeds, investigating back end Java code or redirecting issues to the appropriate teams.  o Managed the end-to-end weekly and monthly deployment process of all development items in  SIT/UAT/PROD environments. This involved obtaining item approval from management teams, preparing deployments using BMC Release Process Management; coordinating with both development  and business teams impacted by issues with server availability during deployment times; testing all item  functionalities after deployment completion; and managing deployment documentation.  o Team lead for project support activities including: representing the team on business calls, budget  tracking, communicating development issues and needs with other development teams, and status  reporting to management across all deliverables.  * Contributed research and development for an automation bot that handled email notifications of build failures  using Automation Anywhere.  o Automation process identified error notifications in CI TeamCity build logs and sent an email  notification to the person(s) associated with the particular build failure. This involved writing scripts in VBScript that made calls to the TeamCity REST API to traverse the build logs which would collect  error details such as keywords, phrases and server information. Based on the failure that had occurred, the details collected would be categorized by a failure type and an email notification containing the build  failure details would be sent to the probable developer or development team. This process was originally  being done manually by a DevOps team.  o Presented research and ideas on how to approach bot development, as well as keeping management  informed of all progress. Education Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science CUNY Queens College - Flushing, NY January 2012 to May 2015 Skills Java, Sql, Bmc, Jira, Process management, Customer service, Microsoft office, Wordpress, Front End