Programmer Analyst I Programmer Analyst I Web Developer / Salesforce Developer Albuquerque, NM ? Salesforce Developer / Web Developer    Salesforce Certifications  ? Administrator  ? Platform Developer I  ? Platform App Builder  Verify using the name Ryan Sloan    Salesforce Technology Highlights    Front End:   ? Visualforce Pages & Components  ? Lightning Component Framework  ? Salesforce Lightning Design System (SLDS)    Back End:   ? Apex Classes / Controllers  ? Salesforce Object Query Language (SOQL)    Deployment:   ? Change sets  ? Ant Deployment Tool  ? Salesforce Metadata    Development Environments:  ? IntelliJ IDE  ? Developer Console    Version Control:  ? Git  ? Github  ? BitBucket    Data Management:  ? DataLoader  ? Dataloader.io  ? Workbench    www.github.com/ryanpsloan  Web Development Technology Highlights    Front End:   ? HTML  ? CSS  ? JavaScript  ? jQuery    Back End:   ? PHP  ? NodeJS  ? mySQL  ? NOSQL    Command Line Interfaces:  ? Linux  ? Ubuntu    Development Environments:  ? PHPStorm  ? Visual Studio Code  ? IntelliJ    Version Control:  ? Git  ? Github  ? BitBucket    Frameworks:   ? Bootstrap  ? Material Design Lite  ? AngularJS  ? Google Firebase  ? Symfony    Data Types:   ? JSON  ? XML  ? CSV Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Programmer Analyst I Rural Sourcing Inc - Albuquerque, NM March 2016 to Present For this onshore domestic IT outsourcing firm I worked in the capacity of a developer in PHP  and as a Salesforce Developer and Administrator for the following clients:    ? EasyRX - Online community where dentists can order dental appliances from manufacturers. Using Symfony, Yaml, PHP, CSS, HTML, Javascript, jQuery, and Bootstrap  technologies I worked with a project lead as a two man team developing a prototype for a marketplace which was demonstrated at a trade fair. We were also commissioned to build a  new data driven page and integrate it into their existing site.    ? Angles Acts Of Kindness - Poverty alleviation non-profit. For this local non-profit to track their  business processes and inventory I delivered a customized Salesforce Org pro bono as a training exercise in Salesforce Administration and Development. This exercise taught me  enough to earn my Salesforce Administrator Credential.    ? DentaQuest - National Dental Insurance provider with two Salesforce Organizations. I  work as a developer delivering enhancements and bug fixes in AngularJS, Apex, Visualforce  and Lightning Components. I also provide Salesforce Administration support to the business for anything they need. This position taught me the skills and knowledge to earn my Salesforce  Platform Developer I and Platform App Builder Certifications along with extensive knowledge of the Salesforce platform.    ? Progress Rails - For this manufacturing company I provided leadership to a team of new  Associates developing in PHP. Trained and guided them through understanding and working with a complex code base, assisted them in completing their deliverables.    ? Cars.com - For this automobile retailer, I initially worked primarily with NodeJS, JavaScript, CSS and Handlebars templates to update and enhance the UI. I worked under an Agile Scrum  workflow as part of a 7 person team. After a few months, the client requested someone with Salesforce experience to join their CRM team. I was transferred to the CRM team where I  currently work in Visualforce Pages and Components as well as Lightning Component in the front end along with HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery. I also build Apex backend logic in  Classes and Controllers using SOQL and Custom Settings. I work remotely as part of the client  team under an Agile Scrum workflow with Jira. PHP Web Developer PaydayHCM - Albuquerque, NM March 2015 to Present A local payroll and Human Capital Management firm where I worked on the following:    ? Supported CMS Rollbase web platform which is customized and marketed to clients as HR  Software as well as used internally to track and document business processes and internal  workflow.    ? Customized the platform using JavaScript, jQuery, CSS3 and HTML5.    ? Worked supporting client accounts, troubleshooting and resolving issues as well as building out custom functionality.    ? Automated some manual business processes using PHP and an Ubuntu Linux web  server.    ? Saved other employees hours of work with web tools I build.    ? Built tools that balance uploaded files, compare files, and format files with pages created  with Bootstrap 3, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Object-Oriented PHP and mySQL.    ? Currently supporting built tools and building new ones on a contractual basis. Contract Web Developer Faith Comes By Hearing - Albuquerque, NM February 2017 to March 2018 For this internationally recognized Non-profit I worked on a contract basis on the following projects:    ? Developed and donated a dynamic page in HTML5, CSS3 and jQuery for their website.    ? Used JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, JSON and PHP to integrate Apple Pay into their website.    ? Built a custom Partner portal for delivering digital content through their website using  JavaScript, Material Design Lite, and Google Firebase and a NOSQL database. Education Certificate of Completion in Deep Dive Coders Web Development Boot Camp Central New Mexico Community College STEMULUS Center - Albuquerque, NM December 2014 Associate of Arts in Computer Information Systems in Computer Programming Central New Mexico Community College - Albuquerque, NM August 2014 Bachelor's in Economics Guilford College - Greensboro, NC July 2002 Skills Training, Documentation, Technical documentation, CSS, HTML, Javascript Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/ryanpacesloan Certifications/Licenses Salesforce.com Certified Administrator March 2016 Salesforce.com Certified Platform Developer I March 2017 Salesforce.com Certified App Builder March 2017