Data Analyst Data Analyst Data Analyst - ROBERTS CONTAINER Dana Point, CA Multiskilled professional with expertise in developing analytical solutions to provide sustainable business profitability. Skilled in collaborating with multiple departments within the organization to achieve business and financial objectives. Strong information technology background and adept at improving processes and reporting methods. Autodidact, with creative outlook and diverse experience in problem-solving and business forecasting. Has a strong work ethic and is an ideal candidate who has demonstrated ability to work efficiently under stress and is able to adapt to fast changing environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Analyst ROBERTS CONTAINER - Los Angeles, CA 2018 to Present • Implemented and customized Salesforce by leading the consolidation of 4 data systems into 1.  • Created dashboards, graphs and visualizations and analyzed data from 9,000 transactions to identify current  trends and provided recommendations concerning opportunities for growth across departments.  • Slashed SLA Time by 50% by integrating customized data tracking processes, while ensuring the continuation  and enhancements of data accuracy.  • Managed project prioritization with Product Development Team and increased delivery time by half.  • Developed complex workflow automation rules and increased productivity and efficiency by 40%. Quality Specialist FARFETCH - Los Angeles, CA 2015 to 2018 • Delivered ongoing reports of quality trends and revamped internal processes to prioritize business needs.  • Analyzed data measured in Tableau and other KPIs related to quality performance to improve training.  • Designed, conducted and analyzed survey data from 30,000 monthly active users to find a correlation  between CSAT and the quality measured internally increasing quality feedback score by 2x.  • Collaborated with the training team to enhance the onboarding and training of 50+ new sales advisors. Freelance Web Developer Los Angeles, CA 2012 to 2015 Built websites, created logos & flyers, enhanced SEO for multiple clients. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer & Data Network in Computer & Data Network UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGY - Béziers, FR Skills Tableau, Data visualization, Crm, Statistical analysis, Relationship management, Training, Customer relationship management, Process flow, Budgeting, Excel, Microsoft office, Outlook, Word, Financial analysis, Visualization, Bilingual Links http://linkedin.com/in/kevinbihan Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES  Data Processing • Process Flow Development • Training Presentation & Reporting • Project Management  Budgeting & Financial Analysis • Team Leadership • Solutions Advice • Resource Management  Interpersonal Skills • Critical Thinking • Business Process Customization • Statistical Analysis    TECHNICAL SKILLS    Bilingual fluency in both French and English  Microsoft Office (Outlook, Word, Advanced Excel, and Power Point)  Proficient in Customer Relationship Management software: Salesforce & Sage CRM system  Proficient in Analytics and Data Visualization tool: Tableau