PHP/Drupal Developer PHP/Drupal <span class="hl">Developer</span> PHP/Drupal Developer - FICO Raleigh, NC • 9 years of experience in PHP Technology, HTML, CSS, XML, Drupal, JavaScript, AJAX, Content Management System, LAMP technology, XAMP technology, MVC Framework and Android.  • Experience in setting up PHP- Web Based Server.  • Good experience in Team Foundation Server Automation Build and deployment.  • Experience in AWS Services such as EC2 and S3.  • Experienced in tools like GIT, SVN, CVS, DIMENSIONS.  • Expert in Drupal and up to date on the latest developments and versions.  • Managed several projects for large corporate clients using both Drupal 7 and 8, including full Drupal deployment services.  • Expert in developing front-end systems with JavaScript, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, MVC frameworks such as Angular JS and Node JS as a platform for Web applications  • Extensive knowledge of WordPress, Magento and Drupal theme integration plug in manipulation  • Excellent Experience in building Android Apps, PHP Apps using MVC Architecture.  • Ability to develop unique, cutting-edge applications and troubleshoot issues for different handset and user requirements in Android.  • Expertise in advanced JavaScript libraries and frameworks such as Angular JS, Node JS and Object Oriented Programming in JS.  • Used Angular JS MVC Framework in the development of the web application to bind the data/model that was retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope.  • Strongly skilled and experienced Drupal Developer with a proven talent for spotting opportunities for innovation  • Migrated existing site from Ruby on Rails to Drupal 7. Work included custom content type creation, Views building, custom module development including Features, and importing of old site users and content.  • Wrote module to import users and event content from old site into new Drupal 7 site.  • Experience in developing UI applications using HTML, HTML5, JQuery, and AJAX, AngularJS.  • Worked on Zend module development and customization.  • Documented High Level Design and Detail Level Design based on Business requirements.  • Expert PHP Development utilizing Zend, magento1.9, magento2.0, CakePHP, Laravel, CodeIgniter and Symphony frameworks  • Maintained version control Software including test to production promotion model.  • Experience with database SQL development and excellent knowledge working with relational database systems such as MySQL 5, Microsoft SQL Server 2012, Oracle, MariaDB and DB2  • Working experience with setup & use of version control systems (SVN, GIT, CVS)  • Experience in using various tools and IDEs for development and design like Visual Studio.  • Solid Experience in common third-party APIs  • Excellent experience developing responsive sites with HTML5 and CSS3  • Strong programming experience in PHP 5, JavaScript/jQuery  • Experience on code responsive designs using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery and similar frameworks  • Worked extensively in application Software Analysis, Design, Development, and testing. Report Generation, Unit, System, Integration and Performance testing of the application and its components. Work Experience PHP/Drupal Developer FICO - San Jose, CA October 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Used all aspects of MYSQL/ PHP Programming (object oriented PHP), Zend Framework in LAMP environment.  • As a developer involved in design and developing websites using PHP5, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML4/5, AJAX and MYSQL.  • Worked with PHP, MYSQL, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX and XHTML to build a fully Web 2.0 compliant networking website.  • Created a custom module to integrate Polaris API with Drupal.  • Build multiple Drupal modules and leverage existing modules.  • Identifying and solving issues caused by plugins or feeds under PHP, MYSQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQueryTechnology.  • Excellent proficiency in using Drupal Ajax and jQuery in web development  • Modifying PHP, HTML, CSS, Java script, JQuery according to project requirements.  • Experience in WordPress plugging development creating, and modifyingWordPress themes.  • Created a DRUPAL/DKAN site that utilizes both PHP and Database.  • Work on Drupal front and back end development, along with theming.  • Used Spring ORM to integrate with Hibernate and used the Hibernate template to persist the data.  • Created LESS files and used grunt to preprocess and generate the CSS files.  • Custom WordPress themes creation with HTML5, CSS using LESS, and PHP files.  • Used Hibernate extensively to persist the data into the Oracle11g database.  • Designed, coded, architected and tested various themes, modules and processes to extend Drupal to meet the clients needs.  • Created custom Drupal modules using PHP.  • Extensively used Annotations, Mappings and querying the database using Hibernate.  • Responsible for designing new modifications and enhancements to current production systems and driving the team which implements them forMagento WordPress sites.  • Developed front end themes from customization of the WordPress back-end for enhanced client usability, plugin integrations, launch and maintenance.  • Worked on an open-source CMSDrupal to build website using Drupal7  • Custom module and template design and development for Magento.  • Customize the Magentocore codebase and developed extensions.  • Developed user interface using PHP, CodeIgniter, NOCMS, bootstrap, AJAX, JQuery,HTML5, CSS3.  • Worked in CMS tools such as Joomla, Drupal and WordPress.  • Modified the source code according to the requirement using Joomla  • Experience in automation server Jenkins to automate the tasks for building, testing and deploying.  • Developed Configurable shims for modular JavaScript. Displayed good UX  • Worked with integrating search engine optimization (SEO) functionality within an MVC framework using constantly evolving legitimate techniques to improve website ranking in the major Search Engines.    Environment: PHP5, HTML5,Drupal7, Zend Framework, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS3, MYSQL, BitBucket, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Flash Professional, Bash, DKAN, Report Builder, Ubuntu 12.04, LAMP, Magento, WordPress, YII, MYSQL, Agile, Jenkins, Grunt, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML/ XHTML, XML. PHP Developer FORD Motors - Wayne, MI September 2016 to October 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed the website using LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL and PHP) architecture, Laravel, HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript and involved in complete User interface design.  • Created a RESTful API for data exchange using PHP.  • Tested the website based on client specification using PHPUnit.  • Redesigned the company's websites including website layout modification and responsive web design optimization using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery and Bootstrap.  • Involved in converting the website in different languages.  • Migrated websites to a Cloud Linux server so as to get a 90 percent budget reduction in server rental annually.  • Responsible for investigating and resolving application functionality related issues and providing first level support and troubleshooting.  • Meet with the stakeholders to determine website goals and develop strategies for creating a strong web presence.  • Created demos for the fabric material website.  • Participated in program meetings during the development phase.    Environment: PHP, Linux, MySQL, RESTful API, Nginx, PHPUnit, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap. PHP Web Developer Umass Memorial Health Care/CHL - Worcester, MA August 2014 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Integration of Service Now with BMC Remedy for ticket creation on change submit.  • Developed code using HTML, PHP and JQuery for slideshows and designed images such as Logo using Adobe Photoshop.  • Building PHP websites using PHP based CMS frameworks like Joomla.  • Worked Extensively on MySQL as a backend.  • Implemented dynamic web applications using AJAX.  • Communicated with project manager to clearly define project specifications and plans.  • Modified pictures to fit better on webpages using Adobe Photoshop.  • Developed user interface using HTML5 and CSS3.  • Implemented fundamental web functions using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Prepared multiple validation pages using JavaScript and PHP.  • Solved the performance oriented problems by implementing new code and by modifying the existing code.  • Validated all the HTML/XHTML and CSS code per W3C and made it complaint.  • Fixed cross browser compatibility issues for Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and IE.  • Conducted multiple times of testing using testing tools such as Chrome Inspector, Firefox Firebug, and IE Tester.  • Cooperated with teammates using version control tools such as GIT.  Environment: HTML4/HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Python, HTML, Visual Studio, Photoshop. Senior PHP/Drupal Developer JET BLUE, Time Square, NY July 2012 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developing PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AngularJS ecommerce application pages according to project requirements.  • Create custom Drupal modules using PHP, MySQL and JavaScript and configure required contributed Modules.  • Integrated Salesforce.com with external systems like Oracle and SAP using SOAP API and REST API.  • Maintained and developed modules for Drupal web store  • Streamlined website development by migrating to Acquia's Drupal hosting service  • Developing responsive theme using HTML, JQuery, JSON, CSS, and SASS to support devices.  • Worked on Single Sign on (SSO) for sign in purposes. Used SAML based SSO API to integrate with LDAP system.  • Created and deployed complex, fully-featured websites using the Drupal Content Management System (CMS), integrating custom programming with existing third-party modules.  • Utilized agile and scrum methodologies to develop Drupal applications.  • Written custom module for migrating from oracle UCM to Drupal.  • Hands-on experience in Drush command lines  • Used Jenkins to the integrate code into a shared repository at regular intervals for the drupal deployment pipeline.  • Written custom module for integrating with LDAP to check user activity and information.  • Carried out extensive verification and testing in order to set MySQL database free from SQL injections throughout course of database development and management.  • Worked on UNIX/Linux, MVC, Subversion, CVS, Git, Zend, CakePHP, CodeIgniter Framework, Wordpress and LAMP toolset.  • Build AJAX pages using PHP to display current server time  • Involved in the development using JQuery and PHP and designed applications in AJAX with rich user interfaces.  • Development experience with Zend, NetBeans, Notepad++.  • Modification and customization of the Drupal and Word Press themes.  • Worked with MySQL which includes configuration, query optimization, full-text search indexing  • De-normalization Expert in handling the administration of MySQL database using PhpMyAdmin.  • Developed and design security token for in order to verify only valid users can request to API.  • Used PHP unit to perform testing to verify the behavior of the components.  • Worked on Stack Zend PHP, Apache Web Server, SVN, Oracle, JavaScript, JQuery  • Worked on HTML5/CSS3 and JQuery in a Drupal based CMS environment  • Performed image/graphic slicing and optimization using Adobe Photoshop.  • Used JIRA, Stash, Bamboo, Confluence Project development tools  • Excellent work done in writing queries, stored procedures, triggers and functions in SQL Server, Oracle, DB2 etc.    Environment: PHP, HTML 5, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, Drupal, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Jenkins, MySQL, JQuery, Laravel, Windows, Apache, MVC Frame Work, SSO Angular JS, WordPress PHP/WordPress Developer Midnet Media - Minster, OH June 2010 to July 2012 Responsibilities:  • Utilize PHP5, MySQL, WordPress, HTML, JavaScript, CSS in support of the system including input/update forms, database storage and reporting capabilities.  • Updated and implemented required database information which involves writing complex queries to MYSQL database.  • Worked with designers to implement custom skins and templates for the front-end.  • Worked on PHP and built object-oriented websites in PHP5.  • Worked with the Model-View-Controller (MVC) architectural pattern, and developed web applications using this pattern or on existing MVC frameworks  • Interacted with MySQL database systems through abstraction layer.  • Used Backup and Migrate for migration and staging process.  • Moved and PHP based websites from one host to the other.  • Wrote code for multiple chained selects using J Query and JavaScript.  • Used Linux to maintain and configure Apache/MySQL web servers.  • Front-end development utilizing Java Script frameworks such as Angular.js, J Query UI and Require.js, as well as front end technologies HTML5, CSS3, AJAX.  • Using AngularJS created Responsive Web Design (RWD) and did data manipulations to display data in company standard format in UI.  • Development of Client Side Validation techniques using Web RTC and J Query and Angular Java Script.  • Developed a cross-device/cross-browser web application for real-time location sharing utilizing Angular JS, JavaScript API.  Environment: Eclipse, PHP 5, WordPress, XML, HTML, ZEND Framework, LAMP, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, Bugzilla, MySQL, Bootstrap. Skills Visual studio, Html, Php, Svn, Database Additional Information Technical skills profile:    Web Technologies PHP, AJAX, HTML, CSS, JAVA Script, jQuery, Drupal, Web Services  Development Platforms MVC , Java, Zend Framework , Boostraps,Win32  Web Servers Linux, Apache, Amazon  Database MYSQL, Oracle , Word press  Development Tools Edit plus, Eclipse, Visual Studio, Filezilla, Netbeans, Dreamweaver, SVN, Github  Methodologies Waterfall, Iterative, Agile/Scrum, SDLC  Operating Systems Windows, GNU/Linux