Front End Developer/ Web Developer Front End <span class="hl">Developer</span>/ <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer/ Web Developer Holly Springs, NC ? Over 7+ years of experience in Design, Development, Implementation and  Maintenance.  ? Excellent in working with the presentation layer using HTML, CSS,  JavaScript jQuery and AJAX.    ? Experience in DOM interaction with objects in HTML documents.    ? Development, installation and maintenance of WordPress plugins, themes,  widgets in Php.    ? Experience in Angularjs with Angular material and Bootstrap UI.    ? Building a basic content management system for legacy site.    ? Migration experience from legacy site to wordpress based site.    ? Experience working with HMI systems.    ? Knowledge working with node component using Nodejs.    ? SEO optimization and reducing site latency.    ? Experience in Atlassians content management system, structure,  customizing portlets, and out of the box Atlassian features.    ? Experience as an administrator in training and on-boarding new users.  Also, good in working with offshore teams.  ? Working closely with the marketing team to understand the requirements  from a sales strategy and feedback from focus groups.    ? Experience in capturing, analysis and documenting business and software  requirements.    ? Capable of handling multi-tasking and willingness and ability to quickly  adapt and learn.    ? Experience in Healthcare and Retail domain with excellent analytical,  interpersonal, written and verbal communication skills.    ? Possess high energy, creative and innovative thinking with zeal to  succeed. Work Experience Front End Developer/ Web Developer Purcado Inc - Durham, NC February 2017 to July 2019 Purcado Inc is a start up company based out of Durham, North Carolina. It's an online shoe shopping website which is an aggregator site working with a  number of retailers to provide the best deals and best prices for shoes.    Responsibilities:    ? Install, design and manage the wordpress site.    ? Built search page to hit the custom search api endpoint to retrieve results.    ? Built product pages with swatches and stores information.  ? Built customized deals page showcasing the featured and latest deals.    ? Worked with query parameters for sending and receiving data from API.    ? Created short codes and plugins for different modules in php.  ? Review, install and updating WordPress plugins periodically.  ? Creating and working with custom post types for deals.    ? Creating and styling WordPress blog for Purcado news.    ? Involved extensively in migrating the entire site to WordPress.  ? Created website layouts and designs to transform the old website to the    new website. Responsible for coding the views in HTML and styling the pages using LESS.    ? Angular material design for navigation, menus, drop downs and responsive layout design.    ? Used Angularjs states for routing.    ? Created search, user and product controllers for the different modules.    ? Created search services to get search, product and deals data from API.    ? Designing custom grid layout for homepage using Angular material and Angularjs service.    ? Documenting and tracking bugs using Atlassian jira.  ? Used git and source tree for version control.    ? Managing WordPress server instances on AWS console.    Environment: Angularjs 1.5.8, Javascript , jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Php, WordPress, WebStorm, PhpStorm, Source tree, Git, Bit Bucket, Phototshop,  Postman, Parallels for windows, Mac OS, Gimp. HMI /UI Developer Zoetis - Durham, NC October 2015 to December 2016 Inovoject  The Inovoject System, an Embrex BioDevice from Zoetis, provides the highest  level of accuracy to help ensure chicks are protected from disease challenges.    Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for coding the UI which interacts with Node, PLC and EggID    using javascript, jQuery, HTML and CSS according to design patterns and coding standards.    ? Running NextGen setup in isolation mode for development and testing on Ubuntu using VMplayer.    ? Creating interactive icons for HTML pages using GIMP.    ? Involved in coding node modules and operating system code using Nodejs in WebStorm.    ? Working with mechanical and software team on enhancements and bug fixes  based on feedback from hatcheries.    ? Working with translators to get the latest translations for all user defined  strings.  ? Modifying language configuration file to reflect latest translations and working with translation import scripts to make sure all translations are  correct and displayed according to specifications.    ? Testing on actual machine to ensure correct working and proper interaction  between UI, Node and PLC.    ? Documenting all bugs encountered in Bugzilla and troubleshooting all bug  fixes.    ? Actively participating in release testing and creating release package according  to documentation before handing it to the testing team for final testing.    ? Writing automation scripts for simple creation of troubleshooting tips, events  file, language configuration file and static configuration file.    ? Code version control using Perforce.    ? Taking part in code reviews using Bugzilla and Swarm.    ? Updating the changes to the User Interface document, messaging document,    software developer guide and events document.    Environment: Javascript , jQuery 1.8.2, HTML5, CSS, Ubuntu 12.04, WebStorm, GIMP, Perforce, Bugzilla, Swarm, Nodejs, Notepad++, Windows 7. Web Developer / Web Designer Walgreens - Lincolnshire, IL January 2012 to March 2015 Train IT  Train IT is an Intranet site dedicated exclusively for training, development and employee engagement. Employees browse and explore new carriers, sign-up for  training classes, read newsletters and more. It was utilized by all the employees  of the organization as part of their GPS reviews. Confluence is used as the collaboration software.    Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for publishing the website with Career guides, TrainIT  newsletters, external information and newsfeeds with the most updated content    using WML, HTML.    ? Creating wire frames and mockups for new sites and pages using Balsamiq  and Microsoft Visio.    ? Maintaining and updating training plugins and forms used for training class    enrollment using active objects.    ? Styling web pages with colors and themes (Zen foundation) in accordance    with company standards using CSS.  ? Creating animation effects, tickers, hot spots and other functionalities like event handling, form registration etc using JavaScript and jQuery in the form of  user macros.    ? Designing poster boards and flyers for training classes and events using MS    Publisher and Adobe Illustrator.  ? Designing logos and website graphics using Adobe Photoshop.    ? Assisted in migration of old training data into the new Learning Management  System.    ? Continuous website content management and maintenance.    ? Recording and editing videos using Camtasia Studio and publishing it on the website.    ? Collecting and reporting website analytic information using Piwik.    ? Assisted in documenting and creating job aids.    ALM  Application Life Management (ALM) team enables consistent SDLC processes and tools for facilitation, coordination and collaboration among cross divisional work  teams. The goal of the ALM team is to improve quality and lower cost through build  execution management.    Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for on boarding new teams to confluence with training and information.  ? Experience as a Confluence administrator in provisioning new users, dealing  with access permission schemes, backup & restore spaces in confluence and loading new CSS.    ? Writing Javascript for generating tickets in Jira from confluence via AJAX calls.    ? Configuring dashboards, creating filters and gadgets in Jira.    ? Creating workflows and UI screens for different teams as Jira administrator.    ? Configuring Schemas, defining issue type, priority, custom fields and access    permissions for various Jira projects.    ? Assigning and triaging tickets to dev teams in jira.    ? Assisted in testing and migration of existing users to new domain.    ? Gathering requirements from Business Analysts.    Environment: Confluence 3.5/5, Jira 5.0/6.1, Zen 3.2/5.0, HTML, WML, CSS, jQuery 1.4, JavaScript, Java, Eclipse 3.x, Adobe Photoshop CS5, Adobe  Illustrator 6, Snagit 10, Camtasia Studio 7.1, Balsamiq, Gliffy, Piwik, Windows  XP Professional, Windows 7. Associate Engineer Mobile Awareness LLC August 2009 to September 2011 Intern)    Mobile Awareness, LLC is an Applied Technology company designing, developing  and marketing commercial TPMS and back up camera solutions utilizing  leading-edge sensor, computing and communication technology. As an engineering organization, our experienced team of software and hardware  engineers look to employ the latest advancements in vehicle safety compliance to provide quality and cost-effective products.    Responsibilities:  ? Preparing circuit schematics and specifications using Schematic capture and Dip trace.    ? Testing and programming of pressure sensors and camera systems for precise  pressure settings and camera configurations.    ? Helping clients with technical and customer support.    ? Documenting of all issues and inventory checking. Research Assistant Cleveland State University December 2008 to May 2009 Disaster recovery research in the field of Computer Architecture and Mobile  Computing. Education Masters in Computer and Information Systems in Knowledge Systems Cleveland State May 2010 Bachelors in Electrical and Electronics Engineering in Electrical and Electronics Engineering Anna University May 2006 Skills HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, PHP, VISIO, XML, ECLIPSE, jQuery, JIRA, AJAX, CSS, WML, ANGULARJS, MAC, MAC OS, MICROSOFT VISIO, WINDOWS XP, PHOTOSHOP, WIREFRAME, ADOBE PHOTOSHOP, Angular, UI, Front End, Front-End Additional Information Technical Skills:    Technologies: JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Php, CSS/3, LESS, Bootstrap,  Ajax, Confluence, Jira.  Markup Languages: WML, HTML/5 and XML.    IDE: WebStorm, PhpStorm ,Eclipse    Wireframe/text editor: Balsamiq, Microsoft Visio, Brackets, Notepad++  Design: Adobe Photoshop, Gimp, Coral draw.  OS: Windows XP, 7,8, Mac OS, ubuntu