IOS Developer IOS <span class="hl">Developer</span> IOS Developer - Samsung Research Mountain View, CA ? Over 8+ years of experience in designing & developing Web & Mobile applications and 6+ years in iOS Applications.  ? 6+ years of development experience in iOS application using Xcode, Swift, Objective C, C++ and Cocoa Touch Framework.  ? Experienced in working with data parsing forms such as XML and JSON.  ? Hands on experience with Swift programming language.  ? Experienced in Mobile Application Development using UIKit, Core Foundation with Cocoa touch.  ? Created and customized views using Table Views, Tab bars and Navigation bars which are some basic functionality in a Multi-View Application.  ? Proficient in programming languages such as HTML5 and JavaScript.  ? Proficient Knowledge in the distribution of an APP in to the App Store.  ? Hands on experience on integrating Push Notifications.  ? Proficient experience in the Git commands such as GitLab and GitHub.  ? Experienced working with the Reactive Swift coding.  ? Strong knowledge with Analytics implementation such as SAMSUNG Analytic Events and Google Analytics.  ? Knowledge of Object Oriented Concepts and good development experience in building re-usable code.  ? Experience in Framework development, Angular JS, JavaScript, CSS and HTML5.  ? Control the user interface programmatically, which requires more familiarity with AppKit classes and protocols.  ? Complete comprehension of Memory Management in Objective-C using Instruments to fine-tune the app performance and memory management.  ? Hands on experience in working with OAuth token handling to make API requests for Google, Facebook, Twitter, GitHub.  ? Experience working on Banking& Financial, HealthCare, Retail, IT and Marketing domain mobile applications.  ? Strong Knowledge of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) with strategically designing and implementing the software, debugging, fixing and maintaining the software. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IOS Developer Samsung Research - Mountain View, CA August 2017 to Present is advanced research and development hub of Samsung's SET (End Product) Business who is leading the development of future technologies with 22 R&D centers 20,000 Researches around the Globe. SRA is a subsidiary of Samsung Electronics Corporation. This current project is related to Internet of Things, physical devices connected to iPhone apps with home monitoring devices, bulbs, etc. Working on the Smart Things App no matter where you are, you can connect, monitor and control smart devices, home appliances, TV's and speakers registered with server quicker and easier. We can control Samsung Smart-TV's, appliances and Smart Things-compatible devices.    Responsibilities:  ? Project managed with Agile/SCRUM methodology, code delivered in 2 week Sprints.  ? Strong Working knowledge on Swift 3.0, 4.0 through the project and experienced many improvements over Objective -C.  ? Gained knowledge on Reactive Swift, MVC and MVVM from this project.  ? This application seamlessly interacts with the Cloud, Hubs and User.  ? Gathered requirements for how the application should look and built the application accordingly from the Design and Product team.  ? Worked on Memory management and ARC (Automatic Reference Counting).  ? Executed and Monitored standards for user interfaces, page design and iOS development.  ? Developing and managing user stories while providing status updates to Agile Scrums.  ? Fixed bugs when notified or documented by QA in bug tracking system Jira.  ? Worked with ADT Security Hub, V2 Hub and NVIDIA SHIELD Hub by connecting the hub and all it's devices like Smoke, Alarm, Keychain sensors. And also worked on Migration and development of features.  ? Interacting with Samsung Framework to connect to Samsung Hub and the other devices like home monitoring devices, Dimmers, Switches, Bulbs etc.  ? Worked with BLE (Bluetooth Low Energy) feature for connecting ZigBee type devices pairing through the ZigBee hub and used Bluetooth Framework API's for connecting Samsung devices.  ? Conducted Memory management testing by using Static Analyzer and Instruments.  ? Review and provide comments for the Pull Request / Merge Requests and Daily interaction with the version tools.  ? Worked on integrating with back end services using existing frameworks and also worked on the Samsung Analytic Events.  ? Worked on the iOS concepts like accessibility, custom transactions, core Data, Auto Layout and storyboards.  ? Developing the App using Cocoa Touch frameworks like UIKit, Foundation, Core Graphics Frameworks and experienced the working with 3rd party libraries & frameworks.  ? Developed the application with new features by following the Android app.  ? Knowledge or Understanding the code from Android and will implement the code in Swift in iOS.  ? Used GitHub and GitLab to pull code and make changes in the code and push the code back and expertise in device firmware testing.  ? Invoked RestFull Web services using NSURL Session and Parsed JSON responses using NSJSON Serialization.  ? Utilized Storyboards with Auto Layout constraints to ensure graceful orientation handling on all devices from iPhone 5 onwards.  ? Performed regression and unit testing with XCTest UI Testing framework within Xcode.  ? Working with Backend team to display the correct data format in devices.  ? Incorporated Categories, Protocols, User defaults, notification center, localization bundles, custom fonts, attributed strings.  ? Tested the UI flow with every Smart Thing's devices and also on the alarm devices.    Environment: Objective-C, Xcode 9 to latest 9.3, Cocoa Touch, Foundation framework, SmartKit framework, UIKit, Core Graphics, Swift 3, 4.0, Reactive Swift, Push Notifications, XCTest cases, OCF Cloud manager, AWS, NSLog, Storyboard, Auto Layout constraints, JSON, REST, GitHub, GitLab, XML, SQLite. IOS Developer Princess Cruises - Santa Clarita, CA June 2015 to May 2017 Princess Cruises first set sail in 1965 to Mexico and by now it has become the Third largest cruise line in the world. Princess Cruises is a proud member of World's Leading Cruise Lines(WLCL). Cruise Lines International Association is the world's largest cruise association and is dedicated to the promotion and growth of the cruise industry. Working on the Princess Cruises app to make easy booking and implementing phases.    Responsibilities:  ? Gathered requirements for how the application should look and built the application accordingly.  ? Worked extensively with Objective -C and Cocoa frameworks.  ? Developed the App using Cocoa Touch frameworks like UIKit, Foundation, CoreGraphics Frameworks.  ? Strong Working knowledge on Swift 2.2 and older versions through the project and experienced many improvements over Objective -C.  ? Added animation between UIViews for smooth transitioning and better user experience.  ? Implemented custom UIViews, Table Views, Table View Cell, UI Tab Bar, and Navigation Controller for easy navigation of the app.  ? Working Knowledge on libraries specific to Swift like Alamo fire and also implemented bridging header from objective-c to Swift.  ? Worked with Instruments tool extensively at the end of development cycle to minimize memory leaks and assure overall application stability.  ? Integrated a web-based content made with HTML5 on a Native application using UI Web View.  ? Web service cells by including XML parsing and JSON parsing in the project.  ? Implemented Push Notifications and Local Notifications and Fixed bugs are documented by QA team.  ? Used GitHub to pull code and make changes in the code and push the code back and expertise in device firmware testing.  ? SQLite is used to store data in the project and TestFlight API is used to get user logs and crash reports.  ? Developed the application from the Android code and also implemented new features with the help of Android code base.  ? Experienced with Unit and Integration Testing Framework such as KIF which allows for easy automation of iOS Apps.  ? Incorporated the Push Notification feature using APNS, in order to notify the user when any file operations were done.  ? Refactored UI for additional functionalities that were added to the app.  ? Responsible for service Integration Development and Testing.  ? Updated and implemented 3rd party APIs to integrate with social networks.  ? Addressed Memory leaks by using Instruments and fixed bugs for Memory management issues.    Environment: Objective-C, Xcode 6/8, Cocoa Touch, Foundation framework, UIKit, Core Graphics, Swift 2.2, Push Notifications, JSON, GitHub, XML, SQLite. IOS Developer Rock and Dirt - Crossville, TN December 2013 to March 2015 Rock & Dirt app is a one-stop shop for buyers and sellers with thousands of listings featuring construction equipment. You'll get up-to-date auction information, including past auction results, so you can find what is for sale and at what price - vital information for tracking industry price trends, seller contact options. Participated in the full SDLC, including meetings, iterative development, estimations and design sessions. Worked in design, implementation phases and on different layers of the iOS apps. Fixed relevant bugs, leaks, and deployed on the real-time device to validate the application stability.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked with Objective C, and Cocoa Frameworks, which includes UIKit Foundation.  ? Implemented Maps using MapKit and Core Location to display nearby branches and agents.  ? Added UIGestureRecognizers to simulate carousel effect during navigation between view Controllers.  ? Invoked RestFull Web services using NSURL Session and Parsed JSON responses using NSJSON Serialization.  ? Implemented NSOperation Queue and NSURL Connection to integrate, synchronize with enterprise backend and database.  ? Worked on Memory management and ARC (Automatic Reference Counting).  ? Strictly followed MVC design patterns for smooth application performance and secured user credentials for better user interaction with the app.  ? Created Network Manager to handle the service calls through AFNetworking.  ? Used specific XML schema for app's (Bluetooth Low Energy) BLE 4.0 profile, and use Core Bluetooth Framework APIs for the app to connect different devices of Apple.  ? Incorporated the Push Notification feature using APNS, in order to notify the user when any file operations were done.  ? Incorporated Categories, Protocols, User defaults, notification center, localization bundles, custom fonts, attributed strings.  ? Implemented Auto Layout constraints to ensure graceful orientation handling and visualize same in different screen sizes.    Environment: Objective C, Xcode 6.3, Cocoa touch, Cocoa frameworks, AVFoundation work, AFNetworking, MapKit, Core location, iOS 7.0/8.0/ 9.0, Mac OS X. IOS Developer Lennox International Inc - Dallas, TX January 2013 to October 2013 Developed and maintained Lennox Mobile Application. This App works with the GPS locator on your mobile device to adjust temperatures accordingly.    Responsibilities:  ? Project managed with Agile/SCRUM methodology; code delivered in 3 week Sprints.  ? Experienced with Unit and Integration Testing Framework such as KIF which allows for easy automation of iOS Apps.  ? Performed regression and unit testing with XC Test UI Testing framework within Xcode.  ? Implemented Push Notifications to alert the user of important system messages.  ? Developed a module to route and save the JSON schemes into a DB.  ? Worked on web services using NSURL Connection and JSON Parsing to establish server connections and fetch data.  ? Refactored UI for additional functionalities that were added to the app.  ? Optimized app performance by profiling it with Instruments like Allocations and Analyzer.  ? Refactored Delegate protocols in different areas of app and handled data for client devices.  ? Resolved bugs using Breakpoints, NSLog and LLDB statements.  ? Utilized Storyboards with Auto Layout constraints to ensure graceful orientation handling on all devices.  ? Refactored code to be iOS10 compatible.    Environment: Objective-C, Blocks, iOS10, iOS9 SDK, Cocoa Touch, KIF, UIKit, Foundational, Storyboards, Auto Layout constraints, XCTest, RESTful, Push Notifications, Delegation, Keychain, Breakpoints, NSLog, Allocations, Instruments, Agile, SCRUM. IOS Developer Behr Process Corporation - Santa Ana, CA November 2011 to October 2012 The project at hand involved a convenient, easy to use tool to help you find your perfect BEHR color, discover new designer-coordinated color combinations, and preview your color choices in room scenes and on exteriors.    Responsibilities:  ? Customized table view cells according to the client requirements.  ? Extensively worked with instrument tools to minimize memory leaks and assure overall application stability.  ? Worked with Backend team to display the correct data format in devices.  ? Integrated a web-based content made with HTML5 on a Native application using UI Web View.  ? Worked on Web Service calls and JSON parsing.  ? Used the same XIB to design for iPhone 5 and older iPhones by using Auto-layout.  ? Web service cells by including XML parsing and JSON parsing in the project.  ? Responsible for service Integration Development and Testing.  ? Made a UI Tab Bar Navigation AWS, Azure, Google cloud based application.  ? Used GitHub to pull code and make changes in the code and push the code back and expertise in device firmware testing.  ? Used OpenGL API for rendering 2D and 3D vector graphics.  ? Involved in creating navigation and coding for user interface layout and views.  ? SQLite is used to store data in the project and Test Flight API is used to get user logs and crash reports.  ? Implemented Push Notifications and Local Notifications and Fixed bugs are documented by QA team.  ? Multi-Threaded some of the modules in the app by running tasks in a separate thread using GCD blocks and NS Opération Queue for optimizing the performance.  ? To upload/download the secured files with supporting to SFTP we integrated the 3rd part API.    Environment: iOS 8.0 and iOS 7.x (iPhone SDK), Mac OS X, Objective C, Xcode, Cocoa Touch, Cocoa framework, iPhone Simulator, REST, JSON. WEB Developer Future Info Tech February 2010 to September 2011 Involved in web designing using HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript and extensively used Table Less Design in CSS for positioning Developed HTML prototypes and UI deliverables, such as wireframes, flowcharts, screen mock-ups, and interface design specifications at HCSC.    Responsibilities:  ? Planning, designing and implementing of complete Websites.  ? Design with standards compliant code with emphasis on browser compatibility, accessibility, and search engine optimization.  ? Updating the existing Website of client's as per the request.  ? Cleaned up and rewrote front end HTML and CSS to meet validation requirements.  ? Responsible for creating graphics like logos and icons by using Photoshop and Fireworks.  ? Utilized an expert knowledge of JavaScript, HTML and CSS to deliver advanced GUI and controls.  ? Dynamic Website design and programming using PHP, MySQL, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript.  ? Inspect HTML, modify style and layout and debug advanced JavaScript using Mozilla Firebug.  ? Produced JavaScript to automatically disable selected links until a given activation date.  ? Group Manager in creating System Diagrams, Flow-Chart, and Database Diagrams using VISIO.  ? Design Database tables, stored procedures, views, and functions per business requirement from clients.  ? Normalized database tables and performed extensive query optimization.  ? Wrote MySQL Stored Procedures and Views for fetching of data from multiple tables.  ? Design and Develop custom animated banner templates using Flash, and jQuery.  ? Validating all the User's Inputs through Java Scripts and Regular Expressions.    Environment: Adobe Creative Suite, Photoshop, HTML/DHTML/XHTML, CSS, PHP, JavaScript and jQuery Integration, MySQL, Mozilla Firebug, Microsoft VISIO and Microsoft Outlook. Education Bachelor's Skills Android (3 years), HTML5 (2 years), IOS (6 years), Objective -C. (4 years), Xcode. (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    iOS Applications: Objective-C, Swift and Cocoa development for iPhone and iPad devices in Xcode Interface builder - UIKit, Mapkit, Cocoa touch, PhoneGap, core Data.  Programming Languages: Objective C, Swift, Java, C, C++, PHP, SQL, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, JQUERY library  Operating systems: MAC OS 10.5/10.6/10.7, Windows XP, Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 10, Linux, UNIX  Mobile Operating systems: iOS(IPAD & IPhone Applications), Android  IDE's: Xcode, Eclipse, Microsoft Visual Studio, Net Beans, Microsoft Office suites.