Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Verizon Irving, TX • Over all 8+ years of experience in analysis, design, implementation, and testing of Object-Oriented Applications in Client/Server environments using Java/J2EE.  • Experienced installing and developing on ELK.  • Having experience in Splunk for Infrastructure and Application monitoring and configuring additional requirements such as notifications, scheduled searches, field extractions, summaries, accelerations and pivots, etc.  • Splunk development experience in creating Dashboards, RegEx queries.  • Experience in Splunk enterprise edition  • Experience in framinglogstash configuration files using filters.  • Experienced in Java Web-based, Desktop Based Development with Concepts of, Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA), Object Oriented Programming (OOP) and its implementation.  • Experience working with various Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies based on Agile, Scrum, Waterfall Model, Iteration.  • Experience in creating buckets in Couchbase Server and inserting the JSON 's into the buckets  • Experienced in Middleware persistence framework like Hibernate/JPA for mapping Java classes to thedatabase and using Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Experience in working with cutting-edge front-end technologies/framework and libraries like JQuery, Prototype, DHTML, JSON, DOM, CSS, XML, AJAX.  • Extensive experience on Angular JS MVC Framework, Angular JS Tables, Modules, Angular Filters and Angular Events  • Strong experience in developing web applications using various Spring framework features like Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring JDBC, Spring ORM, Spring Security, Spring Boot, and Spring MVC  • Expertise in databases such as My SQL, Postgre SQL ,and IBM DB2 databases to manage tables, views, indexes, sequences, stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages.  • Experience in developing User Interface (UI) rich Web Applications using Front End/UI Technologies like HTML5, CSS3(LESS), JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, JSP, XML, AJAX that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible  • Experience with features of Angular 4 like Modules which configure the injector and the compiler and help organize related things together  • Extensive knowledge in developing applications on a single page (SPAs) using various JavaScript frameworks like Angular JS, Backbone.js, React JS, Node JS, and Bootstrap.  • Having strong Experience with Web Service Applications using User Interface (UI) Technologies like Object Oriented JavaScript, JavaScript& UI Libraries/Frameworks, Angular JS, Angular 2, 4, React JS, Node JS, Twitter Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, DHTML, XML, XSLT, AJAX, JQuery, JSON.  • Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Analysis, Design, Development, Documentation, Testing, Deployment, Version Control, and production support.  • Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML5, CSS3, DHTML and JavaScript that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible.  • Developed and updated web pages quickly and effectively using, HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery with the webpage crosses browser compatibility.  • Experienced in implementing Service-oriented architecture and Web Services using SOAP, RESTFUL.  • Experience with Java 8 features such as lambda expressions, Parallel operations on collections and for effective sorting mechanisms and new Date Time API.  • Experience in developing and a solid understanding of Service Oriented Architecture and Micro services Architecture.  • Proven experience in writing Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions, and Packages using TOAD.  • Worked in Building application platforms in the Cloud by leveraging Amazon Web Services, open source technologies & best engineering practices of CI/CD.  • Expertise in using IDEs like Eclipse, Net Beans, and RAD for developing and debugging rapid web and enterprise Java applications.  • Extensive experience in working on multiple operating systems including UNIX, Sun Solaris, Linux and Microsoft Windows.  • Goal oriented individual with excellent analytical, problem-solving, communication and interpersonal skills with the ability to interact with individuals at all levels and work independently. Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Verizon - Irving, TX October 2018 to Present Description: Verizon is a global leader delivering innovative communications and technology solutions that improve the way our customers live, work, learn and play. the company operates America's most reliable wireless network and the nation's premier all-fiber networkand delivers integrated solutions to businesses worldwide. With brands like Yahoo, TechCrunch and HuffPost, the company's media group helps consumers stay informed and entertained, communicate and transact, while creating new ways for advertisers and partners to connect.    Responsibilities:  • Designing and building new log & data mining services including  • Planning & supporting of execution of assembling  • Perform data mining and analysis, utilizing various queries and reporting methods  • Assist internal users of Splunk in designing and maintaining production-quality dashboards  • Ownership of the log & data mining service based on the Splunk product including  • This individual will also be expected to work with other departments, representing the team on all technical matters related to log monitoring and analysis  • Designed and implemented by configuring Topics in new Kafka cluster in all environment.  • Successfully secured the Kafka cluster with Kerberos  • Implemented Kafka Security Features using SSL and without Kerberos. Further with more grain-fines Security I set up Kerberos to have users and groups this will enable more advanced security features.  • Elasticsearch and Logstash performance and configuration tuning.  • Migrate Data from Elasticsearch-1.4.3 Cluster to Elasticsearch-5.6.4 using logstash, Kafka for all environments  • Written the Grok pattern in logstash.  • Configured logstash: input, filter, output plugins - database, jms, log file sources and elastic search as output converting search indexes to Elastic with large amount of data  • Sync Elasticsearch Data between the data centers using Kafka and logstash. managing Kafka Cluster and integrated Kafka with elastic  • Installed logstash-forwarder and run logstash-forwarder to push data  • Built the customized ETL tool for migrating the data from MS SQL Server to Couchbase server which builds varieties of documents for later use of web services, which pulls the data from Couchbase in JSON format.  • Respond to and resolve access and performance issues.  • Maintain change control and testing processes for all modifications and deployments.  • Worked with release management technologies such GitHub, GitLab and Ansible  • Working as team member, undertaking all responsibilities of team  • Daily coordination with the Onshore/Client to ensure smooth project functioning  • On boarding new application in Splunk  • Experience in framing queries in Splunk using Splunk commands.  • Customization of Splunk  • Creating Dashboards,alerts , Reports    Environment: Java, J2EE, Eclipse ,Couchbase ,GIT, Log4J, Logstash, Kafka, splunk. Full Stack Java Developer Columbus, OH February 2017 to September 2018 Description: Nationwide is one of the largest insurances and financial services companies in the world, focusing on domestic property and casualty insurance, life insurance and retirement savings, asset management, and strategic investments.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Full Cycle of Software Development from Analysis through Design, Development, Integration and testing phases by following Agile Software Development with Scrum methodology.  • Designed and Developed application based on Micro service Oriented Architecture using Spring Boot and node with Express JS.  • Analyzed business requirements to translate functional requirements into technical requirements and developweb application using Mongo DB, Express, React.js/Redux and Node.js (MERN stack).  • Implemented React JS with Redux architecture for fetching asynchronous data from the Restful webservices.  • Worked in using React JS components of NPM (Node packaging manager) such as Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept.  • Used Spring for Retry framework and Couchbase implementation.  • Responsible for React UI and architecture, building components library, including Tree, Slide-View and Table Grid.  • Created single page web application by creating templates with HTML5(for pages), CSS3(styling), Bootstrap (speed development, responsive, consistency), ES6 and responsive components by using event binding and routing services for great user experience with Angular 4.0  • Created Reusable Angular 4.0 components using Typescript and services are obtained using Dependency Injection to consume REST API's.  • Designed pages using Angular 4.0 Validations, Modules, Events, Expressions, Directives, Controllers and Filters.  • Worked with Angular 4.0 using Angular CLI and generated various components, routes, services, pipes and structured the application code using Component-based architecture.  • Created many custom filters using Angular 4.0 and an external module to manipulate the routing.  • Extensively worked in writing minimal code in building re-usable forms with their validations using React JS.  • Used React JS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send a request to the server.  • Works using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations.  • Automated different Unit Test Cases using Jasmine and Karma Testing Frameworks on Angular 4.0 and Mocha and Chai for reacting testing.  • Created Node JS services using Express JS which are consumed by Angular 4 components on the client side.  • Developed Micro services using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud with Netflix Eureka to create the discovery Server, service, discovery clients and integrated Apache Kafka and Zoo Keeper as a message broker.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Micro services and develop a Spring-based application with very less configuration.  • Used Spring Boot framework to write Presentation Layer, Business Layers and Controller Servlets.  • Used Spring Boot Actuator to externalize application's configuration properties for different environments.  • Designed and developed custom message adapter components using Apache Kafka that allowed the message to travel through Micro services to base on Restful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Build a prototype for various required services such as Scheduling, Logging and Notification Service using third-party Node JS based JavaScript library.  • Experienced in all phases of UI/UX implementation of a Travel Search and Booking web application including Design, Prototyping, Development and testing phases.  • Met with the project manager frequently for reviewing project goals and for creating proposals for future developments and researching their fields for UI design.  • Utilized various JavaScript and JQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  • Utilized Swagger framework for design, documentation, testing, and deployment of REST APIs in Spring Boot.  • Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping (ORM) to interact with the Oracle database.  • Installed, configured, and administration of No SQL database clusters in AWS Virtual Private Cloud Network. Created architecture stack for data access with No SQL database Mongo DB.  • Unstructured data was handled using Mongo DB and used Mongoose Connector for connecting to the database.  • Maintained log delivery system by creating a producer, consumer and broker architecture using Apache Kafka.  • Worked on the ELK (Elastic Search, Log stash, Kibana) stack to facilitate information processing and sharing.  • Designed, built, and deployed a multitude application utilizing the Amazon Web Services stack (Including EC2 & S3 SQS) focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling.  • Developed a third-party API with OAuth 2.0 authentication and used as a gateway for all the web services.  • Used GIT as version control and regularly pushed the code to BitBucket and used Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Deployment (CI/CD).  Environment:HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Couchbase,Angular 4.0, Type Script, REACT JS, ES6, Jasmine, Karma, Mocha, Chai, Spring Boot, Node.js, Express JS, Hibernate, Mongo DB, Apache Kafka, ELK, Docker, AWS, EC2, Jenkins, Swagger, OAuth 2.0. Full Stack Java Developer Ernest and young Atlanta,GA - Atlanta, GA August 2015 to January 2017 Description: At EY, our purpose is Building a better working world. The insights and quality services we provide help build trust and confidence in the capital markets and in economies the world over. We develop outstanding leaders who team to deliver on our promises to all of our stakeholders. In so doing, we play a critical role in building a better working world for our people, for our clients and for our communities.    Responsibilities:  • Experience working in Agile development following SCRUM process, Sprint, and daily stand-up meetings.  • Designed and developed the UI using spring view component HTML 5, CSS 3, Bootstrap and Angular JS 4.0.  • Utilized MEAN stack, REST design pattern, MVC framework and Single Page Application framework based on Node JS. Transaction management is done by JTA API specification by implementing them.  • Worked with Angular 4 directives, components, pipes, injectables.  • Expertise in application development using Java 8 features like Lambda Expressions for array operations, Collections, J2EE, Annotations, Hibernate, JUnit, Ant, Maven, CSS, XML.  • Developed Spring Features like Spring DAO, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Integration, Spring frameworks.  • Used Spring framework including Spring core/IoC, Spring AOP, Spring ORM, Spring Batch, Spring Security and implemented the authentication, authorization, and access-control features by using Spring Security.  • Well exposed to Hibernate and spring and thorough knowledge on Hibernate configuration file. Used Hibernate for accessing the database and mapping the entities by using annotations.  • Used Hibernate as an ORM tool to store the persistent data and for communicating with the Oracle database.  • Designing and coding Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions using PL/SQL, Oracle10g/11g and SQL Servers.  • Composed and executed Mongo DB scripts and queries to fetch and test data from No SQL databases.  • Used a Micro service architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST.  • Involved in developing Restful Web Services with JAX-RS to provide functionality for future development.  • Developed REST Web Services clients to consume those Web Services as well another enterprise Wide Web Services.  • Experienced in transferring data from different data sources into HDFS systems using Kafka producers, consumers, and Kafka brokers. Worked on creating Kafka topics, writing custom petitioner classes.  • Deployed the Application into Docker container and made easily accessible at runtime using cloud services like AWS, Netflix Eureka, Spring Hystrix as the fallback method, Spring Ribbon for load balancing and a broker service to maintain status using Spring Kafka and Zookeeper.  • Involved in Docker containerizing the applications and pushing them to quay and deploying on kubernetes. Ensure the deliverables meets the design requirements and technical specifications.  • Defined strategic initiatives on Continuous Integration and Delivery (CI/CD) model in the AGILE development environment to help, respond quickly to business needs.  • Used DROOLS engine as java runtime rule engine to validate business rule before executing in runtime.  • Used GIT as version management, JIRA for defect management system.  • Analyzing Maven dependency in the base code to annotate the dependency on Spring Boot application into Gradle and Developed Unit test cases using JUnit, Mockito, and Easy mock, Jenkins.  • Understanding big data technologies like Apache Kafka and Apache Spark Using Scala in Play framework.  • Performed deployment of applications on Web Sphere Application Server (WAS) and tested Service and data access tier using TestNG and performed UI testing and front-end testing using Selenium.  • Track production incidents, identify and prioritize scope for bugs and enhancements, conduct reviews with State counterparts and plan releases.    Environment: Core Java, Tomcat, Apache Kafka, Swagger, JMS, J2EE, Spring MVC, Spring Boot Framework, Micro service, Mongo DB, Angular 4.0, Spring Security, Hibernate 4.X, JQUERY, JSON, AJAX, Node js, Web Services, XML, JavaBeans, JavaScript, Apache Maven, Gradle, JUnit, HTML/UNIT, XSLT, HTML/DHTML, JIRA. UI Developer Marico - Mumbai, Maharashtra December 2012 to July 2015 Description: Marico is an Indianconsumer goods company providing consumer products and services in the areas of Health and Beauty based in Mumbai.During 2015, the company generated a turnover of Rs. 5,733 crore.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in translating functional requirements into technical requirements. Involved in document analysis and technical feasibility discussions for implementing new functionalities.  • Build REST web service by building Node.js Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front-end JQuery Ajax calls.  • Implemented the Graphic User Interface GUI by coding in HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, and JQuery UI.  • Designed Single page web applications object-oriented JavaScript Framework like Angular.JS and Ext.JS.  • Created prototypes in HTML, JavaScript, and CSS for different UI pages. Rendered views using Reacts. Used Backbone.JS for passing on data from HTML forms  • Used Spring MVC Model View Controller to handle/intercept the user requests and used various controllers to delegate the request flow to the Backend tier of the application.  • Configured the XML files for Open Source Spring Framework to fulfill the Proxy Pattern.  • Configured the XML files for Spring Security injection to ensure the back-end security by discriminating the role of users as well as access authority for the URIs and Server-side assets.  • Extensively worked on Spring Bean Wiring, Spring DAO, and Spring AOP modules.  • Implemented Spring AOP in exception handling, which it reduces the development time to handle the exceptions  • Implemented design patterns like Session Façade, Singleton, Factory, Service Locator and DAO.  • Wrote Hibernate configuration files to enable the data transactions between POJO and Oracle Database.  • Built DAO package as well as DAO IMPL package to implement the data access logic and using Hibernate Annotation to do the data mapping. Used Log4J API for logging and debugging. Developed UNIX shell scripts for performing administrative tasks.  • Developed the application using agile methodology. Worked on Java Messaging Services (JMS) for developing messaging services.  • Used JERSEY framework to implement the JAX-RS (Java API for XML and Restful Service). Used Ant for building and deploying the war file into the application server.  • Worked with Eclipse as the IDE to develop, test and deploy the application. SVN is used for version control systems and source code management.  • Created test cases using JUnit and Mockito. Created automated test cases for the web application using Selenium.  • Configured and set up JBoss Server for deployment. Used JIRA for tracking bugs. Used JENKINS for continuous integration.    Environment: HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, Spring MVC,Log4J,JAX RS,JUNIT, Mockito, Jboss. Web Developer Teleparadigm Networks - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2011 to November 2012 Description: Teleparadigm Networks delivers software and IT services across the globe under service models that are unparalleled in the industry. We are innovating in telecom, mobile applications, healthcare systems integration. This project was designed to build a Common Access Platform for customers and health agents using web to interact with the system from any part and allow the customers to enroll for health insurance online.  Responsibilities:    • Part of planning sessions with team members to analyze requirements. Outlined, proposed and coded the proposed solutions.  • Used Doo toolkit to construct Ajax requests and build dynamic Webpages using Asp's, DHTML and java scripts.  • Development of Action Forms, Action Servlet, Action and Validating Action Forms in the Struts framework.  • Configuring Action Mappings in Struts-config.xml. Extensively involved in the development of Web Services interface to the workflow system to facilitate setting up of customer's modem.  • Developed the bean, the business method interfaces and the DAO for the workflow Web Services framework.  • Design and implementation of J2EE patterns E.g. MVC, Value Object, Data Access Object, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Facade.  • Developed applications, which access the database with JDBC to execute queries, prepared statements, and procedures.  • Developed programs to manipulate the data and perform CRUD operations on request to the database.  • Worked on developing Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence diagrams, and Data Models. Developed and Deployed SOAP-Based Web Services on Tomcat Server  • Coding of SQL, PL/SQL, and Views using IBM JMS management. Used JUnit for unit level testing. Used Log4J for logging the user events.  Environment: Java, J2EE, AJAX, Struts, SOAP, HTML, XML, JDBC, ANT, XML, Tomcat, JUNIT, DB2, Eclipse , GIT, Log4J, Web Logic, Dojo. Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages C, C++, Java , Maven.  Methodologies/Design patterns OOAD, OOP, UML, MVC, DAO, Factory pattern, Agile, Scrum, Test Driven Development.  Web Technologies  JSP, Servlets, Angular JS, JQuery, React.JS, Node.JS, EJB, Hibernate, Struts, Spring, JDBC, HTML5, DHTML and XML, CSS3, Web Services, WSDL, SOAP, Apache Camel, Kafka, Spring Boot, Express.js.    Web Services SOAP, Restful Web Services.  Tools & Framework  Kafaka, logstash,splunk,Struts, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, JMS, JSF, Log4J, Mockito, SOA, JSP reports, SOAP UI, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Spring Data.    Application/ Web Servers Apache Tomcat Server.  IDE Tools Eclipse, Rational Application Developer (RAD) and Net Beans, STS.  Databases Oracle 11g, My SQL, SQL, Mongo DB.  Cloud AWS,Couchbase  Version Control Tools SVN, Clear Case, Git.  Operating System Windows, Linux, Unix, Mac, Solaris.