Clinical Research Admin Clinical Research Admin Dallas, TX Young professional with technical expertise looking for a dynamic and challenging work environment. Excel at juggling lots of fine details, collaborating with teams, and finding ways to be more efficient. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Clinical Research Admin Texas Cardiac Arrhythmia Research Foundation January 2018 to Present • Experienced in advanced patient data platforms like EPIC and Leading Reach; ensuring patient confidentiality.  • Managing patient follow-up calendars for 40+ concurrent research studies sponsored by medical device companies.  • Approximately 2,000 hours of patient contact, reinforcing positive relationships to ensure engagement throughout their participation in the research trials.  • Acting as the research foundation's main liaison for clinics and hospitals throughout the U.S.; Coordinating MRIs, echocardiograms, and various invasive heart implant procedures.  • Supporting multiple teams of clinical research coordinators and study representatives to collect patient data.  • Refining and abstracting patient records such as lab results, visits, and device checks.  • Financial auditing patient accounts for visits and procedures received. Web Developer/Content Manager University at Albany: Web Services - Albany, NY August 2016 to May 2017 • Responded to site/content change requests from academic and administrative offices throughout the university.  • Implemented creative designs for new web pages to improve users experience and increase site traffic.  • Test-ran alternative content management systems like Drupal 7, 8, Wordpress to replace the in-place legacy system. Web Developer/Content Manager University at Albany: Atmospheric Sciences Research Center - Albany, NY May 2016 to May 2017 • Initiated site development for 3 million dollar NSF-funded U.S.-Taiwan research program, The PIRE Project.  • Collaborated with both staff and research scientists to meet expectations for an aesthetically pleasing and informative site.  • Responsible for code/content implementation.  • Acted as Mandarin interpreter for visiting scholars from Taiwan. Student Assistant University at Albany: Center for International Education - Albany, NY October 2015 to August 2016 • Served as a first point-of-contact advisor to students interested in our study abroad programs.  • Matched students with programs that best fits their career goals and interests.  • Presented study abroad opportunities in class visits throughout the year. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science, Chinese Studies, and Linguistics State University of New York at Albany - Albany, NY 2012 to 2017 Skills Css, C#, Html, Javascript, Reactjs, Python, Xamarin, Java, jquery, Angularjs, Sqlite, Excel, Microsoft office, Outlook, Powerpoint, Word, Organizational Skills, Microsoft Word, training, Typing Links http://Linkedin.com/in/ryan-c-lott https://github.com/ryanlott168