Android Developer Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Android Developer - CNH Industrial Chicago, IL • Overall 7 years of experience in IT industry including 4 years as Android developer and 3 years as Web Developer/Java Developer  • Strong knowledge of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) with strategically designing and implementing the software, debugging, fixing and maintaining the software.  • Experience of Android using Android Studio, Android SDK, DDMS, Eclipse & Java.  • Good understanding in Android OS, interactive application development and memory management.  • Experience in using Fragments, Activity workflow, Action Bar Navigation, Menu designs and view controls.  • Designed GUI and interfaces with services for mobile applications.  • Experience working with Google Maps APIs, In-App purchases, In-App advertising, SQLite, Geocoder API.  • Knowledge of using Fragments, Broadcast Receivers in different android applications.  • Experience of common Android framework API (Location, Camera, Notifications, Maps), and Google APIs (Location Manager).  • Experience of using third Party Frameworks such as Retrofit, Picasso, ButterKnife.  • Knowledge of using Cardview and Recyclerview for different layouts in application designing.  • Knowledge of using Social APIs such as Twitter, Facebook for sharing information from the app.  • Experience in performance optimization of android applications and exposure to tools such as TraceView, Lint, and Hierarchy Viewer.  • Knowledge of using version control systems such as Git.  • In-Depth knowledge of Databases and web development.  • Well familiarized with Home Screen Widgets and expert in utilizing UML for object oriented design.  • Experience working with SOAP, REST web services.  • Experience working with the Unit Testing methodology.  • Experience in object oriented analysis and design and experience in creating Custom Views.  • Good Analytical, Interpersonal and communication skills.  • Result oriented, committed and hard working with a quest to learn new technologies and undertake challenging tasks.  • Highly motivated, self-starter able to work independently and collaboratively within a diverse technical team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Android Developer CNH Industrial October 2016 to Present Description: CNH Industrial Company makes vehicles and vehicle parts around the world. For some vehicles, they are implementing android applications with custom displays which is used to track the information about fields and crops by using innovative technologies.  Responsibilities:  • Worked in Agile methodology, highly involved in design, implementation and testing.  • Worked on OEM applications which built for customized Android displays.  • Worked with custom Android system and UI framework used on CNH Industrial displays.  • Developed various application UIs which support in different custom displays.  • Worked on integration of services using AIDL for different applications to display the data from backend.  • Developed custom views by using custom widget library for the UI of the applications.  • Worked on memory optimizations in different phases of the development.  • Participated in code reviews using Gerrit with large team.  • Involved in testing of different applications to increase the performance.  • Worked on the different applications with PCM (Powertrain Control Module).  • Implemented JSON parsing in various applications.  • Worked on command line Cygwin to build and run the application.  Environment: Intellij, Java, Gerrit, Maven, Genkins, Cygwin, Tera Term, Git. Android Developer Sears Holdings Corporation - Chicago, IL June 2015 to October 2016 Description: Sears is a specialty leading retailer, which sells apparel, home, automotive, clothing, among others. This project was an internal application used by the Sears operations team to place new orders or service open orders. Sears app puts everything in your fingertips. Enjoy special offers and in-store savings, access your registry and find gift for others, product details, videos & more.  App Link: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.sears.android&hl=en  Responsibilities:  • Highly involved in the planning, designing, development, testing and deployment.  • Assessed the direction of the project all throughout the development cycle.  • Worked closely with design and development team on direction and user experience  • Worked closely with Web Services team  • Created Widgets to track the nearest place to order the food which is easy to know the location for users.  • Created different UI screens for the application  • Worked on Marshmallow version to access runtime location access permissions.  • Worked on Point Systems which automatically adds points to user's account for every transaction.  • Push Notification using GCM to send updates on orders and special offers in application.  • Implemented JSON for retrieving data  • Worked with Google APIs to locate the nearest stores  • Worked on ListView to create list of shopping categories and items  • Worked on saving user preferences locally using shared preferences  • Worked on Activity styles and implemented custom styles  • Worked on making the app support different screen sizes and configuration  • Tested and debugged the application on different devices  • Utilized Git commands and Jira source manager for project sharing.  Environment: Android SDK, ADT, Git, XML, CSS, Java, Jira Android Developer Flagstar Bank - Troy, MI November 2013 to May 2015 Description: The Flagstar Bank app offers you a smarter way to online banking, with this app we can find nearby ATMs, branches and loan centers of Flagstar bank, this application provides unique features. shop for office supplies and technology while saving time and money. Android application makes online banking from anywhere you are located. Account information is synchronized across all screens.  App Link: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.flagstar.mobilebanking  Responsibilities:  • Developed application using the Agile Software development methodology.  • Used Multi-threading to implement parallel processing.  • Implemented client side RESTful calls to receive JSON data.  • Utilized a retention fragment technique to avoid losing the AsyncTask.  • Implemented SQLite DB to maintain Locations.  • Used logcat, DDMS (Dalvik Debug Monitor Server) and traceview for debugging and detecting memory leaks.  • Tested the app across different versions of Android and different android phones to assure quality and performance.  • Enabled the application to use the Camera feature to scan a document and upload the check using SQLite.  • Implemented the List framework to pull the list of locations data with the detailed description and display it in the list.  Environment: Android Studio, XML, Genkins, Git, Genymotion. Jr Android Developer Little Caesars - Detroit, MI March 2013 to November 2013 Description: The Little Caesars app offers you a smarter way to order pizzas and food items from anywhere nearby, this application makes shopping easy and in this application we can find available jobs for each individual Little Caesars store. We can save those jobs to our favorite list which was shown in list.  App Link: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.littlecaesars.littlecaesars  Responsibilities:  • Assessed the direction of the project all throughout the development cycle.  • Worked closely with design and development team on direction and user experience  • Created different UI screens for the applications.  • Utilized third party libraries like Retrofit and Picasso for fetching data from internet and image caching.  • Worked on different status bar notifications for more easy interaction.  • Incorporated Google Maps to facilitate location services  • Implemented JSON parser for the purpose of retrieving data  • Used custom list views to view information on every screen thereby maintaining the uniformity.  • Used Android JUnit extension to prepare test cases.  • Tested and debugged the application on android devices.  Environment: Eclipse, XML, HTML5, CSS, JSON, Git Java Developer Sears Holdings Corporation - Chicago, IL November 2011 to March 2013 Sears is a specialty leading retailer, which sells apparel, home, automotive, clothing, among others. This project was an internal application used by the Sears operations team to place new orders or service open orders.  Responsibilities:  • Used Struts Framework for the application, Developed Struts Action Classes and Business Logic and have developed Hibernate HQL and Hibernate mappings /created DAOS mappings in Hibernate.  • Responsible for customization of the business logic using Core java features such as Collections, threads to suit the customer requirements.  • Used Hibernate to retrieve/update customer information from/to the database.  • Used spring for dependency injection between the application layers.  • Designed and developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML and JavaScript.  • Tested the web application and deployed on the Apache Tomcat web server and JBoss application server.  Environment: Eclipse IDE, Java, Oracle, JQuery, JavaScript, XML, JSCover, Spring Tools. Java Developer Quicken Loans - Detroit, MI June 2011 to November 2011 Quicken Loans is America's leading online mortgage lender helping many families to finance their homes. Quicken Loans used a custom developed application to manage three essential steps of a retail mortgage loan lifecycle - Mortgage Originations, Mortgage Processing and Loan Underwriting.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design, Development and Support phases of Software Development Life Cycle using agile methodologies.  • Extensively involved in gathering requirements, preparing requirements documents  • Involved in the development of dynamic Webpages using JSP.  • Development of the Server Side Application, which includes Servlets that handles the Database manipulation with the back-end MySQL database using JDBC connector.  • Created REST web services using Apache.  • Designed and implemented user interfaces using JavaScript, HTML, XML, CSS, JSP, and AJAX.  • Designed and developed database stored procedures and functions in Oracle.  • Responsible for Unit Testing with Junit, integration testing of software and load testing using JMeter.  • Used the Eclipse as IDE, configured and deployed the application onto WebLogic application server using Maven build scripts to automate the build and deployment process  Environment: Eclipse IDE, Java, MYSQL, JQuery, JavaScript, XML, CSS, HTML, AJAX. Web Developer (Jr Programmer) Habitat for Humanity - Ann Arbor, MI February 2010 to April 2011 Habitat for Humanity is an organization dedicated to eliminating poverty housing and homelessness from the world by providing affordable housing to the people with average income rates. Home owner counseling program as part of the affordable housing program, Along with all these components, the application will cover the volunteer, donor tracking and the event details.  Responsibilities:  • Created login pages for various user types such as Donors, Voluntaries by using HTML and CSS.  • Was an entry level member of the web and application development team which participated in nonprofit organization contracts  • Used Java script for client side validations and implemented feedback form.  • Design the database in MySQL.  • Worked with the design of the templates and skins in CSS and worked with JavaScript and jQuery.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, MySQL Education MS in Computer Science and Information Systems University of Michigan - Flint, MI Skills JAVA (5 years), XML (5 years), ANDROID (4 years), CSS (3 years), DATABASE (2 years), Intellij, Java, Gerrit, Maven, Genkins, Cygwin, Tera Term, Git (8 years) Additional Information SKILLS  Languages: C, C++, Java, HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, Apex.  Database: MS SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, SQLite, SQL.  IDE: Eclipse, Android Studio, Intellij  Web Services: REST, SOAP, XML.  Operating Systems: Windows (XP, 7,8 and 10), Linux.