Sr. QA Analyst Sr. QA Analyst Sr. QA Analyst Friendswood, TX ? 5+ years experienced Creating Test Plan, developing and executing Test Scenarios and Test Cases, and logging defects for different types of software testing.  ? 3+ years of diversified and progressively challenging experience as a Software Developer using ColdFusion, HTML, JavaScript and .Net C#.  ? 3+ years of experience in Relational Database design and programming using T-SQL, Stored Procedures, Triggers.  ? Knowledge and comprehensive understanding of various software and designing tools.  ? Experienced with Review meetings to identify ambiguities in functional requirements.  ? Strong skills in System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) concepts and QA Life Cycle methodology.  ? Experience in working with Windows, Client-Server, Web based as well as Mainframe related applications.  ? Hands on experience working with different modules of Quality Center such as Requirements, Release, Test Plan, Test Lab, Test Cycle, Defects and Dashboard.  ? Performed Backend Testing by executing SQL queries.  ? Experienced in various testing methods such as Unit, Functional, Regression, Integration, System, End to End, Performance, Stress, Backend, and User Acceptance Test (UAT).  ? Deciphering and analyzing Use Case, Business Requirement and Functional documentation in order to clearly identify priority and impact of test cases.  ? Testing methodologies such as Agile and Waterfall.  ? Manual testing and automated testing using tools like Quality Center and Quick Test Professional.  ? Working with various databases like Oracle and SQL SERVER.  ? Analysis of Requirement documents, Design documents & Business Rules.  ? Development and maintenance of highly complex software tools and applications developed for the Backup Flight Systems Shuttle program.  ? Demonstrated the ability to analyze, design, write and test code, document and implement functionally appropriate, technically sound, and well-integrated application systems and software tools. Work Experience Sr. QA Analyst Designpix - McKinney, TX September 2011 to March 2017 Description:  Designpix is a graphic design firm that creates exceptional designs for websites, mobile apps, e-commerce sites as well as branding. Through their valuable resources of multinational companies, they receive clients looking for all IT services. As a Quality Assurance, professional I worked with them on a contract to contract basis. I have worked for a major telecom company, health services company, as well as numerous website and e-commerce websites. All work was done at client company locations.    Responsibilities:  ? Responsibilities included Manual GUI Testing, Functional Testing, Integration Testing, Regression Testing, Interface Testing, End-to-End Testing, and User Acceptance Testing.  ? Analyzed requirements and user cases, certified application-specific software, performed ambiguity reviews of business requirements and functional specification documents  ? Attended Weekly tech review meeting  ? Updated the BRD according to the Business User's demand  ? Wrote Test Cases for enhancement  ? Executed Test cases and logged defects using Quality Center  ? Develop and updated UAT scripts for different Business Users with different role.  ? Wrote Test Plan for different releases.  ? Test the application in Production, Development, UAT Environment  ? Work on system integration with other system  ? Develop test data for Regression testing.  ? Automated the functionality and interface testing of the application using Quick Test Professional (QTP).  ? Used QTP for Shared Object repository creation and maintenance, used regular expression, re-usable actions, data table, checkpoints and recovery scenario.  ? Performed Back end testing by writing SQL statements like Join, Inner Joins, Outer joins and Self Joins used TOAD and SQL Developer  ? Analyzed requirements and user cases, certified application-specific software, performed ambiguity reviews of business requirements and functional specification documents  ? Developed and documented effective test procedures, which effectively directed others' work. Lead brainstorming sessions to identify key testing concerns and prevent insufficiently broad testing.  ? Imported data from the Database to the Data table and performed Data Driven testing with different Data sets for reports generation module in QTP.  ? Created Driver Script using VBScript to execute QTP application automatically and run number of automated scripts simultaneously. Web Developer/Software Engineer Boeing Company - Houston, TX May 2008 to August 2011 Intern/Co-op)    Description:  The Boeing Company is a leading aerospace company focusing on commercial aviation, defense, and space. Working with NASA and the Shuttle Program, I worked on the Backup Flight Systems Tools team. Starting as an Intern I worked on built software tools that needed fixes found during testing, as well as enhancements that were introduced through review meetings. After the internship, I was hired fulltime and worked on the development of new software tools.    Responsibilities:  ? Demonstrated the ability to analyze, design, write and test code, document and implement functionally appropriate, technically sound, and well-integrated application systems and software tools.  ? Using the Requirements Verification Testing methods, tested software tools using the software Requirement Sheet (SRS) and Software Design Document (SDD).  ? Code Tested software using SRS and SDD as well as test scripts written by Tools team for the software.  ? Meeting with Business Analysts and Software Tools team created SRS and SDD for software tools applications.  ? Maintained and Developed software tools developed by the Boeing Shuttle BFS (Backup Flight Systems) Tools team.  ? Collaborated in the development of the PULSE framework which reduces the development time of software tools by having functionality common to all tools built into the framework. Education BS in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering University of Houston Skills Qtp, Quick test, Quick test pro, Selenium, .net, C#, C++, Html, Javascript, Xml, Xsl, Ms access, Sql server, Oracle, Sql, Coldfusion, Css, Dreamweaver, Rhapsody, Rdbms Additional Information OVERALL TECHNICAL SKILLS    ? RDBMS: Oracle, TOAD, SQL Server and MS Access.  ? Programming Languages: ColdFusion, HTML, XML, XSL, XSD, C#, Matlab, JavaScript, CSS, and C++.  ? Developing Tools: Microsoft Visual Studios, Dreamweaver, .NET, Rhapsody, and Netbeans.  ? Testing Tools: Quality Center, Quick Test Pro (QTP), Selenium and Test Complete.  ? Operating Systems: Windows XP, Windows Vista, Windows 7, Window 8, Windows 10  ? Documentation Tools: Microsoft Office (Excel/Word)  ? Hardware Development Tools: Multisim and Xilinx.  ? Technical Support: Installation of software and troubleshooting of computers and electronics.