General Contractor General Contractor Contractor / Web Developer West Charleston, VT I had been working as a web developer for several years both as an employee and as an independent web designer and developer. I worked on both Linux and Windows platforms coding PHP, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and JavaScript.     Life turned and we decided to build our own home in Vermont. I pivoted completely and designed and built this 4-story residential A-frame on land we owned. It was an immense challenge to delve into unfamiliar realms and have to perform at a high level on a limited budget to get the very steep roof on before winter. As the general contractor I performed all roles, negotiated all purchases and labor as well as physically built 80% of the home. This experience has made me a more organized and careful worker. It's also made me want to work professionally again. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience General Contractor Pensioner Pond Permaculture April 2017 to Present Previous to GC period renovated Craftsman home in Philadelphia suburb which sold at asking price to first day buyer.  ? Functioned as Architect, Designer and Project Manager for a $200K personal residence build, which increases property value by approximately $300K.  ? Managed and executed strategic planning, design changes, scheduling, and budgeting of construction, hired labor and equipment rental.  ? Negotiated contracts and coordinated outsourcing with local companies.  ? Personally performed 80% of framing, sheathing, roofing and metal trim, 100% of electrical, plumbing, low-voltage wiring, excavation and concrete work, minor plumbing, minor electrical, drywall patching,  caulking, and painting. Web Developer Nectyr Productions, LLC March 2015 to August 2016 Programmed Online Applications using Codeigniter and Object Oriented Programming  (PHP5/MySQL) for various clients in LINUX and Windows environments.  ? Used jQuery AJAX/JavaScript Library for front-end and back-end website layout and online  applications.  ? Migrated databases using PHP and MySQL.  ? Used CSS extensively on all front-end and back-end layout. Communications Director Mechanical Contractors Association of NJ June 2002 to November 2007 Design and maintain statewide website using open source languages, PHP MySQL and CSS.  Application used are Adobe Creative Suite 3 and Microsoft Office 2003.  ? Design & create monthly newsletters using Quark, wrote articles for quarterly industry newspaper  write and distribute press releases to major NJ publications, created brochures for direct mailings.  ? Design and maintain several websites for mechanical contracting companies, local unions (on an independent basis). Designed and maintained websites for artists and photographers.  ? Maintain welding database for NJ union welders in Microsoft Excel.  ? Attend and help administer board & membership meetings, seminars and the national convention.  ? Assist executive director and lobbyist at state and local meetings, attend legislative hearings and political affairs. Education Bachelor's in Physics Rutgers University-New Brunswick - New Brunswick, NJ Skills PHP (3 years) Assessments Construction Safety — Highly Proficient August 2019 Using safe practices while on a construction site Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/s0xoczoktxkgu85b Mechanical Skills: Aptitude — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to understand and apply mechanical concepts and processes. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/zr7yiszupptybc-o Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.