Intern Intern Geoscientist Rochester, MN Work Experience Intern Minnesota Pollution Control Agency - Rochester, MN June 2018 to March 2019 • Create Maps in ArcGIS.  • Monitor stream sites on the North Branch of the Whitewater River.  • Collaborate with team members on various field work tasks, including installation of long-term nitrate monitoring sites, deployment of Sondes and HOBO temperature loggers, and invertebrate sampling. Graduate Assistant WSU Rochester Education Department - Rochester, MN August 2017 to May 2018 • Worked on PERCA reports for professors.  • Created Qualtrics surveys.  • Proofread and offered feedback on student papers. Teaching Assistant Winona State University - Winona, MN January 2017 to May 2017 • Worked with students in GEOS 316 (Geographic Information Systems) to assist with any problems they encountered using the software.  • Graded all homework for GEOS 316. Parks Worker Forestville State Park - Preston, MN June 2016 to August 2016 • Reported water clarity and stage of the Root River on a weekly basis.  • Performed regular maintenance such as lawn mowing, cleaning, and installing sign posts.  • Gave visitors information regarding park events and attractions. Web Developer Omniupdate - Camarillo, CA August 2015 to April 2016 • Converted College and University websites to use OUCampus, Omniupdate's content management system.  • Attended a conference in Los Angeles to teach customers about Omniupdate's product.  • Attended daily scrum meetings to discuss progress and goals. Salesforce Developer Tamarack Consulting - Minneapolis, MN February 2015 to May 2015 • Developed a Salesforce application to act as a front-end GUI interface for a program called InfoLease, which allowed banking customers to make payments on leases.  • Developed a Salesforce application to export data from Salesforce and import data to TurboLease.  • Developed Crystal Reports formulas to export banking reports.  • Fixed Bugs in Salesforce banking applications. Web Developer Age of Learning, Inc - Glendale, CA February 2012 to January 2015 • Built and maintained a task system similar to JIRA to track the assignments and productivity of the corporation's 250+ employees.  • Updated and maintained a translation system that was used to translate the website into different languages such as Spanish, Mandarin, and Korean.  • Worked with a team of programmers to fix bugs found on the HTML5 version of the ABCMouse.com website.  • Developed a project-tracking system to monitor projects that are in development at the company. Backend Developer and IT Great Lakes Communications Corporation - Spencer, IA November 2009 to December 2011 • Developed PHP websites.  • Developed an Android application to keep track of VOIP channels and perform basic functions in the VOIP chat rooms.  • Installed and removed server hardware.    Related Education, Accomplishments, and Experience  • December 2018 - Graduated with a 4.0, obtaining a Professional Science Master's Degree in Geoscience.    • 2017 - 2018 - Gained experience using GIS while completing my graduate research project and thesis, which focused on using LiDAR data to document and map landslides in Southeastern Minnesota.  • Summer 2017 - Gained experience taking GPS data points as well as dinosaur fossil excavation during a week-long summer field trip to the Hell Creek Formation in North Dakota.    • Completed courses in Watershed Science, Geochemistry, Geomorphology, and GIS. Education Master's Degree in Geoscience in Professional Science Winona State University - Winona, MN 2018 Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Iowa - Iowa City, IA 2009 Skills ArcGIS (2 years), Python (2 years), PHP (8 years), Salesforce (1 year), Flowtracker (2 years), SQL Database (10+ years), Trimble GPS (2 years), Information Technology, It Specialist