Sr. iOS Developer Sr. iOS <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. iOS Developer • Over 7 years of experience as a Software Developer and around Over 4 years of experience in iOS end to end Application Development.  • Strong knowledge of OOPS Concept and iOS SDK application Development using Objective-C, Swift, Cocoa Touch, UIKit.  • Expertise in MVC, MVVM design architecture and Cocoa touch design patterns and concepts like delegation protocol, notification -observers.  • Proficient in comprehending the customer needs and business requirements.  • Hands on Experience in Designing and implementation of UI using StoryBoards, XIB File and Programmatically.  • Used NSURLSession to make backend calls using Rest APIs.  • Good working experience with the RESTful/SOAP APIs to consume web services in both JSON as well as XML formats by using parsers such as NSXML Parser and NS JSON Serialization, parsing with both SBJson and Libxml.  • Hands on experience with Auto Layout.  • Created and customized views, Table views, Tab bars, Item Bars and Navigation bars which are basic functionality in a multi-view Page Controls, View Controllers.  • Extensive Knowledge over various Frameworks such as Foundation, UIKit, MapKit, CoreLocation,CoreMotion.  • Conceptual knowledge and Implementation of Multithreading, Grand Central Dispatch (GCD).  • Ability to integrate third party API's such as Facebook, Google, Twitter, PayPal into iOS Applications.  • Experience with app bot to understand the performance, app reviews and rating analysis.  • Experience of SDLC (Agile, Scrum) including SRS, Design & Analysis, Development, Implementation, Build, Deployment, Version Controlling, Testing & Post Implementation and UAT issues support, migration of existing project.  • Experience with version control tools like Git and SVN - merging, branches, updating repository, checking out code.  • Extensive Knowledge of PL/SQL, SQL with database designing, debugging, maintenance.  • Proficient on Memory Management - Automatic Reference Counting (ARC).  • Experience working on all phases of the project - requirement analysis, development, testing, debugging and support.  • Experience in writing coherent, organized codes and also comfortable working on complicated codebase with high levels of abstraction.  • Worked on Web Service calls, JSON, SOAP was used in the project.  • Integrated Crashlytics to get crash reports. Work Experience Sr. iOS Developer Polaris Wireless Inc - Mountain View, CA October 2018 to May 2019 Description: Polaris Wireless is passionate about innovating location-based services to make our world a safer place for everyone. We create new software-based technologies that are scalable, reliable and cost-efficient to help our customers stay focused on their core competencies.    App Information: DataLogger App which has been build for Business to Business Customer. App helps user to collect Location Data, Core motion Sensor Readings, Relative Camera Position and send data to server.    Responsibility:  • Involved in every stage of the Project development life cycle from development to deployment of the application.  • Responsible for migration of application to support to the iOS latest version and worked with Swift, Xcode, iPhone SDK.  • Worked on various Frameworks such as Foundation, UIKit, CoreMotion, MapKit, CoreLocation, ARKit.  • Customized UITableView and UINaviagtion and Tab Bar Controller for the custom look and improve the user interface.  • Integrated Push Notifications, Local Notification and worked with Instruments tools extensively at the end of development cycle to minimize memory leaks and assure overall application stability.  • Implemented MapKit to display annotation for Longitude and Latitude.  • Implemented CoreLocation to make use of Location services and also to get the user current locations.  • Integrated ARKit Framework to run run camera and collect the relative camera position.  • Enabled the Auto Layout for positioning the UI elements appropriately in the view relative to the device and other view elements by adding constraints.  • Performed end to end testing of the framework and acted as an expert technical resource for modeling, simulation and analysis effect.  • Worked in the Agile/Scrum development environment with frequently changing requirements and actively participated in scrum meetings and reviews.  • Worked on RESTful API's to integrate the application to server-side systems.  • Implemented the Crashlytics to get the crash reports.    Environment: Xcode 10, iOS 12, Swift 4.2 & Objective C, Core Location, Mapkit, CoreMotion, MVC, JSON, TFS, Agile, Jira, Cocoa Touch. Sr. iOS Developer Agco Corporation - Duluth, GA February 2017 to September 2018 Description: AGCO Corporation is an American agricultural equipment manufacturer based in Duluth, Georgia, United States.    App Link: https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/valtra-configurator/id963123185?mt=8    Responsibilities:  • Involved in every stage of the Project development life cycle from development to deployment of the application.  • Responsible for migration of application to support to the iOS latest version and worked with Swift, Xcode, iPhone SDK.  • Implemented Core Animation/UI Animation when user login Valtra Tractor Image comes and load the new page.  • Use MapKit to display annotation of nearby dealer.  • Used CoreLocation to make use of Location services and also to get the user current locations  • UITableView and UINavigationController for the custom look and improve the user interface by using the Core Graphics.  • Integrated Push Notifications, Local Notification and worked with Instruments tools extensively at the end of development cycle to minimize memory leaks and assure overall application stability.  • Enabled the Auto Layout for positioning the UI elements appropriately in the view relative to the device and other view elements by adding constraints.  • Performed end to end testing of the framework and acted as an expert technical resource for modeling, simulation and analysis effect.  • Participated in code review using GitHub for creating branches and to push, pull, stash the code from remote repository.  • Worked in the Agile/Scrum development environment with frequently changing requirements and actively participated in scrum meetings and reviews.  • Designed and built the distribution for deploying in the AppStore.  • Worked on RESTful API's to integrate the application to server-side systems.  • Used AFNetworking in performing IP Verification and User Login.  • Implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) environment in a Scrum development methodology to provide end to end development.    Environment: Xcode 8 & 9, Swift 3 & 4, iOS 9 & 10, Postman, XcodeProfiler, Mapkit, CoreLocation. Sr. iOS Developer Anthem Inc - Durham, NC September 2015 to January 2017 Description: Anthem, Inc. is a provider of health insurance in the United States. It the largest for- profit managed health care company in the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association. As of 2018, the com -pany had approximately 40 million members.  Anthem is ranked 33rd on t  .App Link: https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/anthem-anywhere/id589443627?mt=8    Responsibility:  • Worked on the UI design part that when the latest version was released as a transformation from the previous UI environment.  • Worked with Cocoa touch framework which includes, Foundation and UIKit to import classes like UIImagePickerController and UIDatePicker.  • Attended user meetings to clarify doubts about the requirements.  • Worked on the UI design part that when the latest version was released as a transformation from the previous UI environment.  • Worked with Cocoa touch framework which includes, Foundation and UIKit to import classes like UIImagePickerController and UIDatePicker.  • Attended user meetings to clarify doubts about the requirements  • Implemented Grand Central Dispatch (GCD) for Asynchronous background fetches to build more responsive User Interface.  • Worked with wireframes provided by design team to develop the UI through Storyboards and Autolayout Constraints.  • Developed Custom UIViews&UITableViews for user the interface in the application.  • Debugged issues using Breakpoints, NSLog statements, LLDB statements etc.  • Working closely with a cross functional team of testers and developers.  • Integrated a web-based content made with HTML on a Native app using UIWebView.  • Followed Agile practices, attending daily agile (SCRUM) meetings and SPRINT retrospective meetings.  • Parsed JSON data from the database using NSJSONserialisation to the iPhone app, stored the information and check for any updates.  • Integrated Third Party Libraries into the application using Cocoa pods.    Environment: Xcode 6-8.x, iOS9.x, 10.x, Objective-C, GCD, Core Location Framework, Mapkit, MVC, JSON, GIT, Agile, Jira, Cocoa Touch. iOS Application Developer Zions Bank - Salt Lake City, UT June 2014 to August 2015 Description: Zions Bank is Utah's first Chartered Bank headquartered in Salt Lake City, Utah. With its iOS app, users can check account balances, transfer money between eligible accounts, pay a bill, deposit a check, or find a Zions Bank branch or ATM locations.    App Link:https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/zions-bank-mobile-banking/id337012799?mt=8    Responsibility:  • Built iOS Storyboards with UITabBar Controllers creating segues between different views, established IBOutlet, IBActions in the storyboard.  • Used NSArray, NSDictionary to provide storage of objective C objects.  • Used UIImagePickerController to take pictures of the checks to be deposited into the account.  • Developed the login view, account information view and payment view among many other views.  • NSDate, NSTimeZone, and NSCalendar classes store times and dates and represent calendrical information.  • Developed new screens for the application and navigation in the application.  • Analysed and coordinated the development of application.  • Worked on Web Service calls, JSON, SOAP was used in the project.  • Participated in code review using GitHub for creating branches and to push, pull, stash the code from remote repository  • Integrated Map View using Map Kit and Core Location Frameworks.  • Customised UIButton, UIToolBar, UINavigationBar, UIAlertView, UITableView, UICollectionView to build user interface of the application.  • Designed and implemented UI using Storyboards, XIB files and programmatic UI.  • Work closely with the web application development team to ensure proper integration between mobile application and web application.  • Worked closely with QA team    Environment: iOS4.x/5.x/6.x, X code 4.x/5.x/6.x, Objective-C, GCD, Cocoa Touch, Mapkit, MVC, Core Data, JSON, Agile, GIT, JIRA Mobile Developer Talk Talk Group UK April 2013 to May 2014 Description: Talk Talk Telecom Group plc is a company which provides pay television, telecommunications, Internet access, and mobile network services to businesses and consumers in the United Kingdom.    Responsibility:  • Designed and developed based on the work data flow principles.  • Developed HTML Views with HTML, CSS, Bootstrap  • Involved in the design and development of the user interface and the functionality logic.  • Developed Page Layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to clients and the management to view.  • Worked towards transforming wired frames in to HTML and iOS prototypes.  • Developed custom classes and scripts for iPhone and iPad.  • Developed the App using Cocoa Frameworks on UI Kit.  • Worked with UI Web View Delegate protocol to initiate call backs to the UI Web View delegate methods.  • Implemented constraints to ensure graceful orientation of the UI view elements.  • Involved in contributing to loosely coupled code to be able to add changes as per requirement change. oo  • Performance test and fixes were done through instruments.  • Collaborated with end users and clients during software implementation.    Environment: iOS 4.x/5.x/6.x, X code 4.x, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, XML, Objective-C Web Developer Tech Mahindra - IN January 2012 to April 2013 Description: TalkTalk Telecom Group plc is a company which provides pay television, telecommunications, Internet access, and mobile network services to businesses and consumers in the United Kingdom.    Responsibility:  • Designed and developed on the work data flow on principles.  • Developed HTML views with the HTML, CSS, bootstrap.  • Involved in the design and development of the user interface and functionality logic.  • Developed presentation layer using JSP, Servlets, HTML, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript with cross browser compatibility.  • Implemented the database design using ER modelling.  • Used JDBC connectivity to connect to Oracle Database.  • Develop J2EE components on Eclipse IDE.  • Used Oracle 11g database for tables creation and involved in writing SQL queries using Joins and Stored procedures.  • Developed J Unit Test Cases for Code Unit Test.  • Collaborated with the team on fixing development issues.  • Development of websites that have a consistent look and feel universally.  • Provided end user tech support.    Environment: J2EE, JDK, JSP, Hibernate, Web Services, SQL Developer, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, JQuery, Oracle SQL, Dreamweaver. Education Bachelor's Degree in Information Technology in Information Technology Punjab Technical University - Jalandhar, Punjab 2011 Skills Android, Firebase, Ios, Soap, Xcode Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages Objective C, Swift 2.x/ 3.x/4.x, Java, PL/SQL  Web Technologies/Services HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, REST, SOAP, JSON  Frameworks Foundation, Core Animation/UI Animation, UIKit, Firebase, Alamofire, Core Location, Mapkit, Core Data, CoreMotion.  Operating Systems Mac OS 10.5/10.6/10.7, Windows XP,7,10, Android, iOS.  Database Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c, MySQL, Parse, CoreData  IDE & Tools Xcode, NetBeans, JIRA, Test Driven Development tools of Xcode  Methodologies Agile, SCRUM