Sr.UI Developer Sr.UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr.UI Developer - Stratifyd Charlotte, NC • 9+ years of experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in developing and designing user friendly, cross browser complaint web sites, and User Interface (UI) applications.  • Strong experience in web development applications using HTML4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, , DOM, AJAX, XML.  • Extensive experience in writing SPA (single page applications) using RESTFUL web services plus Ajax, Bootstrap and AngularJS libraries like UI-Router, ngResource.  • Experience with AngularJS controllers, views, and services for new website features.  • Used AngularJS markup and expressions and experience using Angular UI components like GRID.  • Responsive Web Design (RWD) for different types of Devices like tablets and mobiles using media queries and libraries like Bootstrap.  • Designed, developed and supported HTML5 and CSS3-based applications, predominantly for use on mobile devices.  • Good knowledge in working with the express.js framework and creating single and multi-page web applications.  • Sound Understanding and good Experience with Object Oriented Programming Concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript and Implementation.  • Profound Knowledge in Document Object Model (DOM)  • Experienced in implementing data visualizations using data driven document (D3) library.  • Good Experience working with High Traffic Websites.  • Experience with Firebug and for Mozilla, Developer Toolbar for Chrome and IE Developer Toolbar for Internet Explorer.  • Experience in using version control tools such as SVN, GIT and CSV.  • Expertise in client side designing and validations using HTML, HTML5 and JavaScript.  • Developing applications in fast paced Agile Development Environment and methodologies including Test Driven Development and Scrum.  • Expert in creating Templates, Mockups and Prototypes, Web Interfaces and Layouts using Web Standards.  • Highly Curious about new front-end development technologies and adept at promptly and thoroughly mastering them with a keen awareness of new industry developments and the evolution of programming solutions.  • Excellent team player, self-starter and good at Multi-Tasking with ability to handle deadlines in fast paced environment. Work Experience Sr.UI Developer Stratifyd - Charlotte, NC June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in web developing dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML 4/5, XHTML, CSS 2/3, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, jQuery, Bootstrap and Angular JS.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • Applied jQuery scripts and CSS3 for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly. REST web services leveraged by both web and mobile applications.  • Designed and developed the UI using Struts view component, JSP, HTML, CSS & JavaScript.  • Maintained high level of unit test coverage through test-driven development.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Frameworks AngularJS and ReactJS.  • Ported and redesigned the Lead management system using AngularJS, implementing modular design.  • Used Java Mail API and Java Message Service API for sending automated Email notifications to the customer.  • Integrating the front end UI to the back end using Spring MVC framework.  • Designed XML files for maintaining contents like video, images and audio and display them in flash application.  • Used CSS Image Sprites for displaying wide range of icons with mouse events.  • Developed reports and chart interface components using High Charts Ajax API.  • Designed 10 Unique rich and flexible themes to accommodate different scenarios in which the user might want to display the data.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, AngularJS, React JS, Bootstrap, Node.JS, RESTful Web Services, XML,JSP, Spring MVC. Sr. UI Developer CSC - Alexandria, VA October 2016 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed cross-browser compatible website using HTML4/5, CSS3, DOM, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, AJAX and Bootstrap.  • Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Involved in writing application level code to perform client side presentation and data validation within forms using HTML, jQuery and JavaScript.  • Created mockups and wireframes for new website layouts.  • Involved in creating a single page hybrid web application using express.js.  • Implemented Date Time Picker using jQuery and HTML5.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Developed database connection and SQL Queries to create dynamic content on web pages.  • Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.  • Structured the JavaScript code using AngularJS.  • Application backend implemented as node.js express application server.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework Bootstrap, Wire-framing and HTML5.  • Used jQuery core library functions and widgets for the logical implementation part at client side for all the applications.    Environment: JavaScript, HTML4, CSS3, jQuery, XSLT, SQL, Bootstrap, AngularJs, Node.Js, Ajax. UI Developer PSST, LLC - Louisville, KY April 2014 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Application design and development using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3 JavaScript and Bootstrap.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, and AngularJS.  • Responsible for developing the Web pages using HTML4, CSS, JavaScript, Node Js, Backbone Js, JSON, jQuery and Ajax.  • Developed Wireframes, Page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  • Used jQuery plug-ins to implement features as a light box, galleria, sliders and other intuitive features. Used jQuery plug-ins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Involved in writing jQuery based Ajax Requests using jQuery GET, and POST methods (URL, data, callback, and type).  • Used jQuery Events to manipulate the elements depending on the user interactions (like ready (), hover (), bind (), click (), key press ())  • Performed Debugging using browser console and written DOM and DOM Functions.  • Involved in developing XUL, HTML, and JavaScript for client side validation.  • Worked in Onsite - Offshore model.  • Written SQL Queries to interact with Oracle database.  • Responsible for ensuring the pattern consistency across all pages.  • Experience in cross browser compatibility check and thoroughly performed unit testing and integration testing.  • Written modular code to separate core interactions into services. Developed services and factories to consume several REST web services supporting both XML and JSON to perform tasks such as remote thermostat and demand-response management. Web Developer Forbes Technical Consulting - Ann Arbor, MI September 2011 to March 2014 Environment: HTML4/5, CSS2/3, SASS, jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, XML, JSP, JSON, MVC, DOM, Angular.js, Node.js, Gulp, NPM, Bootstrap, Oracle, Mac and Windows.    Web Developer  Forbes Technical Consulting Ann Arbor, MI Sep 11 - Mar 14    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed, Designed and developed the system to meet the requirements of business users.  • Participated in the design review of the application to come up with UI and provide best possible recommendations for the application from UI standpoint.  • Front end coding with HTML and CSS.  • Created forms for user input. Extensive use of CSS.  • Web sites are developed, maintained and run within CMS.  • Coded JavaScript for page functionality.  • Implemented presentation tier using HTML, CSS by utilizing the mockups that were created by design team.  • Developed screen functionality using HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Used AJAX for implementing part of the functionality for Customer Registration, View Customer information modules.  • Developed UI using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JavaScript validations and XML.  • Implemented interaction between front-end and backend using the JSON object.  • Written Cross Browser code of CSS and JavaScript for Internet Explorer and Firefox.  • Written CSS to provide table free layout to user interface screen.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, XHML, jQuery, Technical writing/documentation. UI Developer Blue Rock Consulting - Basking Ridge, NJ January 2010 to August 2011 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for quality assurance of finished websites including the validation of web forms and links.  • Produce elegant interactive solutions to complex problems that perform effectively across cross-browser and cross-domain environments.  • Debugging and testing existing code, JavaScript performance optimization.  • Worked with QA team on daily basis in fixing the reported bugs/defects.  • Successfully handled JSON/XML data and carried out JSON/XML parsing for form submissions and DOM manipulation.  • Developed cross-browser compatible website using HTML4/5, CSS3, DOM, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, AJAX and Bootstrap.  • Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Involved in writing application level code to perform client side presentation and data validation within forms using HTML, jQuery and JavaScript.  • Created mockups and wireframes for new website layouts.  • Involved in creating a single page hybrid web application using express.js.  • Implemented Date Time Picker using jQuery and HTML5.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Developed database connection and SQL Queries to create dynamic content on web pages.  • Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.  • Structured the JavaScript code using AngularJS.  • Application backend implemented as node.js express application server.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework Bootstrap, Wire-framing and HTML5.  • Used jQuery core library functions and widgets for the logical implementation part at client side for all the applications.    Environment: JavaScript, HTML4, CSS3, jQuery, XSLT, SQL, Bootstrap, AngularJs, Node.Js, Ajax. Education Bachelor's