Business Owner Business Owner San Francisco, CA Bilingual (Chinese and English)  SF State GPA: 3.71 Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Business Owner June 2015 to Present • Creating and Maintain company website with up-to-date with product specifications and availability.   • To implement best web practices, web layouts and design, and SEO optimization strategy for company website.   • Creating systems (E-Commerce Management Software) to manage company listing, capture and analyzing competitors listing on e-commerce platform.   • Developed new marketing strategies.   • Promotion via social media to maximize brand identity and generate warm   • leads.  Web Developer/Programmer SkyStarTrade January 2011 to April 2015 Develop features, bug fixes, unit tests, & integration (feature) tests for the companies and APIs, internal & external tools / alerts in PHP and some Java.   • Redesigned and created web design from basic sites to responsive sites.   • Provided guidance instruction to best web practices, web layouts and design,   • and SEO optimization strategy.   • Ensured all web site development follows W3C web standards and ADA   • compliance for accessibility and other good practices for web design and   • development.   • Provided UI design solutions to the ecommerce project manager and data   • mining specialist to increase conversion rates.  Web Designer / Technical Support Services WinDuo Technology, Ltd. - GuangDong September 2008 to August 2009 Provided effective and functional web designs to company that met their specific business/personal needs.   • Developed graphic images and effects to achieve design goals.   • Worked directly with client to establish project scope, interaction guidelines,   • and project time lines.   • Performed routine updates, upgrades and overall maintenance of website.   • Ensured accuracy of website content by thoroughly editing and cross-checking.  Education Bachelor's in Computer Science San Francisco State University - San Francisco, CA September 2016 to March 2018 Bachelor's in Computer Science Guangdong Polytechnic of Science and Technology, China June 2005 to March 2009 Skills PHP (6 years), Java (3 years), MYSQL (6 years), HTML (8 years), IOS (1 year), Wordpress (3 years), Magento (3 years) Additional Information Skills Summary  Language: Swift, Java, C#, C++, PHP, HTML, JavaScript, REST APIs  Software: Xcode, Eclipse, GitHub, Word, Excel, PowerPoint  Operation Systems: Linux, Mac OS X, Microsoft Windows  Database: MySql, MsSql, Microsoft Access    Projects:  E-Commerce Management Software   • Listing tool for eBay – Invoke eBay API to schedule listings to post to eBay whenever you want and edit items.   • Image Hosting   • Sales Management, Inventory Management, Multi-Accounts Management,   • Feedback Management   • Competitor Analysis – Implement Spider Crawler with PHP     E-Commerce Website - Go3DPro (Design, Develop & SEO)   • Created a working e-commerce website with Magento, PHP, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, and MailChimp. Built and maintained a working customer database, order system, and picking and packing system with MySQL, complete with error handling and data validation.   • Created website to meet Google mobile first quality standards.   • SEO Analyst & Optimization:   • § Developed on-site body content, meta descriptions and page titles in support SEO strategies.   • § Designed templates for the content management system to promote SEO and conversion best practices and the efficient of HTML tags.   • § Increased relevant click through and conversion rates by 35% through   • contests and promotions.   • § Worked productively to establish project scopes and accomplish   • milestones.   • § Stayed up-to-date on evolving SEO trends, practices and guidelines.   • § Completed monthly tracking reports for traffic and keywords   • performance.     LetsQuiz IOS (Swift)   • Study tool for Student: Help student study more efficiently & effectively & ace your exam.   • Teaching tool for Instructor: Keep track on the whole class/individual student & offer helps & adjust teaching strategy. Offering offline data package. 