Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Charter Communications St. Louis, MO • More than 6 years of experience in projects in software analysis, design, implementation and development using Java/J2EE.  • Experience in Object Oriented Analysis in developing server side and front-end framework using J2EE patterns.  • Worked with Java, J2EE technologies including Spring, Struts, Servlets, EJB, XML, Tomcat, Oracle, SQL, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Angular2, Angular4 AngularJS, Node.js, JS, and JSP.  • Worked with Angular2, Angular4 as well as AngularJS.  • Knowledge on C++ with Object Oriented concept.  • Experience on Java Multi-threading, Collection, Interfaces and Exception Handling.  • Experience in designing User Interface (UI) applications using technologies and frameworks like HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular2, Angular4, AngularJS, Node.js and JSP custom tags.  • Expertise in developing Middle Tier components using Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) and other remote components.  • Experienced in Spring Core, Hibernate framework and JPA.  • Experience in data modeling of Cassandra.  • Worked in development of data models using Hibernate Object Relational Mapping (ORM) framework and also used Hibernate Annotations to reduce time at the configuration level.  • Experience in building Web applications using Spring Framework features like MVC (Model View Controller), IOC (Inversion of Control), DAO (Data Access Object) along with the knowledge of AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming).  • Experienced in unit testing the application using Junit Framework.  • Knowledge and experience in Implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using XML based SOAP and RESTful web services.  • Used Maven tool to build and deploy J2EE applications.  • Used web server like Apache Tomcat to deploy applications and worked on deploying application on AWS cloud environment.  • Worked with microservices.  • Experience in database designing in Oracle/DB2/My SQL/SQL server.  • Proficient in Database programming using JDBC and SQL.  • Knowledge on GIT for code management and version control.  • Good communication, team work, and organizational skills.  • Understanding and experience of working on team, ability to adapt different cultural environment and work with people from different cultures. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Charter Communications - St. Louis, MO December 2018 to Present Project Description: Charter Communications, Inc. is an American telecommunications and mass media company that offers its services to consumers and businesses under the branding of Spectrum. In this project we are using JAVA/J2EE, Spring Boot, Spring modules, Rest web services, SOAP services, hibernate and other java technologies. Customer Information service will display customer's information to the buy flow for a better user experience when purchasing a Phone and Plan. Customer information includes account ID, name, email, address and the users on the account.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application using AGILE methodology (SCRUM).  • Developed the web interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, and Bootstrap.  • Developed applications using JAVA 1.7, 1.8, Spring MVC, Apache Camel, and Oracle.  • Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, and Spring Batch and handled the security using Spring Security.  • Implemented Micro Service architecture by using spring boot with Docker.  • Managed and optimize the Continuous Delivery tools like Jenkins.  • Involved in data modeling the tables in Cassandra.  • Developed secured web services using .NET, C#, XML/SOAP.  • Used Docker Compose file to manage environment variables and every service in this project run inside a Docker Container. Used Spring AOP to do error handling and logging.  • Designed and Implemented producer and consumer architecture using Kafka where backend services as Consumer and frontend services as producer.  • Involved in creating UI interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and Material-UI.  • Used Core Java technologies like Collection API, Multithreading, Java 8 - Lambda Expressions and Streams.  • Developed application layer and business logic using Spring Boot 5.0 to deploy them as microservices and used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection and Spring Batch for running Batch jobs.  • Designed the presentation layer using standard ASP.NET controls, HTML controls and provides the required functionality by using C#. NET.  • Also used Spring JDBC template for easier access to data source and for defining POJO's.  • Developed micro services architecture using Spring Cloud Configure pattern for Service Discovery (Eureka).  • Continous integration with Github to Jenkins.  • Created and consumed RESTful Web Services for interaction between different modules using JAX-RS, Jersey framework.  • Developed the Micro services as spring boot application compatible with Pivotal Cloud Foundry.  • Responsible for maintaining and expanding our AWS infrastructure using AWS EC2, manage documents in S3, providing IAM access to S3 buckets.  • Developed Spring Restful/Microservices and implemented Spring Eureka, Netflix, Ribbon as part of Services Discovery using Apache Axis.  • Used Microservices architecture with Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of REST and other message brokers.  • Involved in the creation of responsive web interface using JQuery, BootstrapCSS and AngularJS.  • Experience in creating and consuming SOAP based Web Services and Web Service Clients (JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL and JAXB) in the payment module to secure the payment processing of claims.  • Developed the presentation layer and GUI framework using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap3, jQuery and Angular 2 to create single page application.  • Implemented Micro Services based Cloud Architecture on AWS Platform and Cloud Foundry.  • Developed user-friendly interface to seamlessly combine the new module with existing system by using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap and JQuery and developed Single page applications using Angular 2.0 and MongoDB.  • Used Hibernate 3.0 module as an Object Relational Mapping (ORM) tool for back end operation over Oracle Database.  • Used BitBucket for Repository and controlling the code without any conflicts and Log4J to log both User Interface and Domain Level Messages.  • Used Jira as ticketing system for logging and monitoring tickets.  Environment: Java1.7/1.8, JDK1.8, Spring5, SOAP, REST, JDBC, JavaScript, AngularJS, Microservices, Webservices, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 3, spring 4.x, Spring Framework, Spring Boot, Kafka, Hibernate 4.x, Restful Web Services JSON, Jenkins, Mockito, Maven 3.0, Bit Bucket, Oracle, JUnit, AWS, Cloudbees, Docker, Jira, Agile. Full Stack Java Developer IHG - Alpharetta, GA August 2017 to November 2018 Description: Global Reservations System (GRS) is a new reservation that IHG has started using for reserving hotel rooms for guests. Using this system Users across the world will be able to reserve rooms from the IHG portfolio of hotels. This project involves integration of the GRS system with Amadeus Reservation system. There is also a system where Use ACLs were generated for Reservation agents and are sent to Amadeus via Restful API calls.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all stages of SDLC including system analysis, design, development and post-implementation activities.  • Actively participated in SCRUM's and Sprints of Agile Methodology.  • Building cloud microservices and implementing back-up using Spring Boot.  • Created a few interfaces and classes to develop enhancements to the existing code.  • Created SQL queries for the team to debug the code faster.  • Near-real time data stream processing workflow developed using Apache Kafka.  • Designed and Developed UI for Portfolio Review Dashboard application using Angular-JS, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, LESS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created middleware web services (SOAP/REST) and integrated them with different end systems.  • Developed static and dynamic Web Pages using JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Provided support during deployments.  • Used NodeJs, AngularJs, BackboneJs, ReactJs and MVC Frameworks in the development of the web application.  • Implemented AngularJS 2 services to connect the web application to back-end APIs to POST/GET the data used in the application.  • Implemented Batch jobs to deal with large number of chunks using Spring Batch Framework to execute the similar jobs simultaneously.  • Spring MVC model integration for front-end request action controller.  • Developed Micro Service to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Used Hibernate, object relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema.  • RESTful web services using Jersey for JAX-RS implementation  • Experience in handling code in different MVC layers.  • Used Hibernate for entity mapping, managing database queries and data persistence  • Involved in Hibernate mapping for mapping the entities to the EDP tables.  • Experience with TOAD for Oracle.  • Created test cases and perform unit testing using JUnit, for the new services added to the project.    Environment: Java, Spring 3.1/STS, Eclipse-Kepler, Hibernate, JUnit, HTML, CSS, TOAD, SVN, Tomcat 7.0, Oracle 11i, JSP, MAVEN.,J2EE/J2SE, Java 6.0,JQuery, SQL, Kafka, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Multi-Threading, Batch, Hibernate 3, CSS3, XML, HTML, JSP 2.0, JBoss, MySQL, Microservices, NodeJs, Groovy, IBM MQ, Mongo DB, ReactJs - Redux, AWS, Windows 7, Sub Version, Rally, AJAX. Java Developer Infinity Insurance - Oklahoma City, OK December 2016 to August 2017 Description: Infinity insurance provides wide range of coverage options. The project was targeted to be used by insurance agents to issue policy for customers. Agents can also check the status of customers and their current policy rules as the current customers were going to have current policy rules and future customers were going to have future policy rules according to business. According to which policy number is auto generated, and the policy details were issued to customers.    Responsibilities:  • Design and development of object using Object Oriented design in Java.  • Develop the changes using JSTL, Angular2, jQuery, JCP, JSP, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring JDBC, microservices, Web services.  • Client pages are built using HTML, CSS, JSP, AngularJS and JavaScript/jQuery.  • Developed web layer using Springs framework and to manage the project in MVC pattern.  • Used JavaScript, AngularJS, and AJAX technologies for front end user input validations and Restful web service calls.  • Configure beans in spring configuration file with Spring IOC, Spring AOP concepts.  • Developed different modules using Java, Spring, and hibernate.  • Experienced in developing SOAP-based Web Services and Web Service Clients.  • Worked on XML for binding data to java objects.  • Involved in using Angular2 for the development of UI.  • Developed the Spring AOP Programming to configure logging for the application.  • Wrote JUNIT Test cases for Spring Controllers and Web Service Clients in Service Layer using Mockito.  • Configured Hibernate to reduce the number of hits to the configuration table data.  • Building and deploying applications on Web/Application Servers like Apache Tomcat.  • Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and spring.  • Developed user interface using JSP, HTML, XHTML and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Used version control management tool GIT.  Environment: JSP, Angular2, AngularJS, JSON, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring ORM, , XML, SOAP Web Services, RESTful web services, JMS, MDB, Hibernate, JUnit, Mockito, Maven, GIT, Oracle, Tomcat. Java / J2EE Developer Infotech Pvt Ltd - IN September 2013 to November 2015 Description: The goal of this project is to capture data for inventory and warehouse data management and reporting capabilities to HDC management and staff. The application is designed using Web service, J2EE, Struts and spring frameworks.    Responsibilities:  • Followed agile methodology, interacted with the client, provide/take feedback on the features, suggest/ implement optimal solutions and tailored application to requirements.  • Design of REST APIs that allow sophisticated, effective and low-cost application integrations.  • Identified coding improvements and worked with a development team to update the applications to match the latest industry standards  • Rebuilt existing Java code libraries for compatibility with new servers running on latest versions of RHEL using internally-developed tools  • Developed and maintained the data layer using Hibernate and performed configuration of Spring application framework  • Implemented the application using Spring IOC, and Spring MVC. Handled the security using Spring Security.  • Used EMS to configure programs to subscribe and publish messages to topics  • Implemented the mechanism of logging and debugging with Log4j  • Assisted software configuration team for code merges and deployment issues  • Used GIT for version control.  Environment: Java/J2EE, Agile, Eclipse, Spring MVC, Struts, Spring IOC, SOAP, REST, Design Patterns, EMS, XML, Hibernate, Log4j, GIT Java Web Developer Infotech Pvt Ltd - IN June 2012 to August 2013 Description: This project provides clients with the ability to retrieve reconcilable credentials. It deals with online payments, user management, balance and transaction reporting. After using various service providers, the customer validation details are provided after the change in credentials. It also provides automated processing through phone menu options to check the account balance, pay bills and also can make an appointment for the technician.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Agile SCRUM development process was used for the product life cycle management.  • Used waterfall methodology for application development.  • Involved in the analysis and design of the application.  • Created several Web services to transfer the data between two different application using SOAP.  • Used JavaScript for client-side validation.  • Designing and Developing web forms using java script for all the Modules.  • Developed model classes and DAO classes.  • Involved in understanding the functional requirements and converting into technical design document  • Implemented the presentation layer based using Servlets, JSP, CSS, HTML and JavaScript.  • Developed JSPs and Servlets to provide a mechanism for obtaining electronic and printed pricelists for list prices, regional prices and customer-specific prices.  • Maintained several user management activities such adding users deleting users refreshing the user data and synchronizing the user data.  • Writing stored procedures and database triggers in SQL Server  Environment: Java/J2EE, java script, XML, SOAP, SQL Server, Eclipse IDE, Ant. Education Bachelor's Degree in Information Technology in JNTUK, Vijayawada, A.P Wilmington University - Wilmington, DE Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, JAVA TECHNOLOGIES