Data Engineer Data Engineer Redmond, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Engineer Microsoft - Redmond, WA March 2018 to July 2019 Through processing, analysis, and visualization, we transform huge amounts of disparate data into digestible, effective insights that Microsoft uses to inform and drive intelligent improvements to Windows Defender in real time and improve third party anti-malware test scores. We plan and implement manual and automated testing, and focus on compliance with industry guidelines to ensure the safety, security, and privacy of the company and all customers. Tools used include Cosmos/Scope, C#, Powershell, PowerBI, and SQL. Web Developer Moonraft Innovation Labs Inc - Seattle, WA August 2016 to August 2017 * Developed dashboards, APIs, and other web applications using technologies such as AngularJS, CSS, Node, AWS Lambda, and D3.js for companies such as T-Mobile, saving hours of effort by compiling and displaying data in one place.    * Coordinated daily between designers and international development team members to ensure swift completion of objectives and shared focus on delivery, cutting the time to project completion by weeks.    * Created webpages and applications based on wireframes and designs, communicating directly with designers in an iterative process that ensured the projects stayed on-model and prevented hours of wasted work per project. Junior SDET BookingSuite - Seattle, WA February 2016 to August 2016 * Develop features for internal full stack web application using MongoDB, Django, and AngularJS to assist product teams daily in project monitoring, ticket organization, and deployment.    * Monitor, debug, and report on suites of over 200 tests in Python, C#, and Protractor (JavaScript) in order to ensure product quality and prompt resolution of bugs.    * Engineer test plans from requirements documents to functional automated test suites using Python and Jenkins, running multiple times daily to support continuous integration practices.    * Designed and implemented the Python backend for a two-day intensely collaborative team project, culminating in a functioning web application to reduce a 15-minute bug identification process down to one.    * Organize the team testing framework to follow language standards and encourage consistency across projects, resulting in more modular, readable, and reusable code, accelerating new-hire onboarding and ramp-up on new projects. Education Certificate in Data Analysis Bellevue College - Bellevue, WA 2015 to 2016 Skills Microsoft Office, Photoshop, SQL (3 years), HTML 5 (3 years), CSS (2 years), Python (2 years), Javascript (2 years), Power BI (1 year), C# (1 year), Cosmos (1 year), Git, Excel Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/vmorishima Certifications/Licenses MSOS Microsoft Excel 2013 MSOS Microsoft Access 2013 MTA 98-364: Database Fundamentals MTA 98-379: Software Testing Fundamentals MTA 98-361: Software Development Fundamentals