Lead Mobile Developer Lead Mobile <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Mobile Developer - Berkshire Hathaway Chicago, IL Work Experience Lead Mobile Developer Berkshire Hathaway - Charlotte, NC April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Working With " Mobicloud Infosystems Private Limited", As Iphone Application Developer  • Extensive experience in iPhone, iPad, Android application development.  • Taking charge of the user interface for the development of iOS and Android applications by using Swift, Xcode, Objective C, JQUERY mobile, JAVASCRIPT, Backbone.js, and PHONEGAP.  • Sole Android developer responsible for full app life-cycle: concept, design, build, test, deploy and release to app store.  • Developed service layer using Spring MVC framework.  • Provided BlackBerry support to new and current Blackberry users by setting up their Blackberry, performed Enterprise Activation's, troubleshoot and resolved any trouble tickets that come up in the Blackberry queue in the DOIM Uni center Help Desk database. Written unit test cases across multiple browsers, platforms, and devices, including.  • Implemented marketing strategies which resulted in 12% growth of customer base.  • Perfect understanding of the best practices for development of the Windows Phone 6 user experience.  • Written unit test cases across multiple browsers, platforms, and devices, including smartphones and tablet.  • Used Cisco Workplace portal and built custom models and user services using Spring and Hibernate.  • Involved in implementing the application for mobile devices (Iphone, iPad)  • Configuration and Setup of various MySQL performance monitoring tools like Nagios and MySQLenterprise Monitor for monitoring MySQL Servers. Configuring Perl scripts for monitoring databases and internal health.  • Have used the Apache CXF to build web service clients  • Created custom mobile applications using native technologies as per client specifications.  • Experience implementing Web Services using Apache CXF, SOAP, WSDL, and REST interfaces in Java.  • Expertise in GUI design and application development using IDE Tools- Eclipse, IBM RAD, My Eclipse.  • Used Web logic Server as application server and made it in cluster.  • Lead project to convert J2EE code repository from Sub Version (SVN) to GIT.  • Developed automated test scripts using Selenium WebDriver for web applications and cloud based applications like Salesforce.com, Oracle application and AWS (Amazon Web Services)  • Followed the Agile methodology throughout the SDLC. Analyzed and understood the business requirements to convert them to Test cases and Test scripts.  • Experience in designing and developing UI components using JSP, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, CSS, and Tiles.  • Involved in designing and development of web interface using JSP, Servlets, and JavaScript.  • Used Maven to build and run the Selenium automation framework. Configured Maven for Java automation projects and developed Maven Project Object Model (POM.xml)  • Worked with IBM Web Sphere Application Server Developer Tools for Eclipse by using lightweight set of tools to assemble, develop and deploy Java EE, Web 2.0, and mobile applications.  • Involved in developing hybrid mobile applications in iOS and Android development. Using Javascript, and Phonegap.  • Using sencha touch for development to find relevant people for the same social Networking Websites.  • Delivered mobile app for book reading capability with HTML5 Sencha and online service with Flash/Flex.  • Used JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, CSS3, and HTML5 as data and presentation layer technology.  • Design and development of Web Pages using PHP, jQuery, jQuery Mobile, Ajax.  • Worked on implementing directives and scope values using Angular.JS for an existing webpage.  • Architected and implement REST api interfaces using javascript and Node.js    Environment: Iphone, Ipad, Windows phone, android, Blackberry, tablet, Spring, Hibernate, MYSQL, APACHE CXF, REST, ECLIPSE, Web Logic, Selenium, Subversion, agile, JSP, Servlet, Maven, PHP, Ruby. PhoneGap, Sencha Touch, HTML, CSS, JQuery Mobile, Angular.JS, Node.JS, Backbone Lead Mobile Developer Comcast Corporation October 2015 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Experience In Iphone/Ipad Application Development.  • Provided a weekly progress report to the executive staff, ensuring that all parties were informed of milestones.  • Developed mobile time tracking user interface for iPhone and Android using PhoneGap library.  • Wrote and integrated custom Cordova plugins, OAuth and GPS using native code, Objective C and Android Studio, Java.  • Architected a customized network protocol used by client applications including Android, iOS and Windows Phone 7 to communicate with cloud architectures.  • Used BlackBerry JME JDE to test software on the device.  • Configured Struts, Hibernate framework with Spring MVC.  • Implemented JBOSS Cache provider with Hibernate second-level cache for clustered caching using cache factory interfaces.  • Data modeling using Database development skills in Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL.  • Have used the Apache CXF to build web service client.  • Involved in creating, publishing and consuming Web Services using JAX-RS API and other technologies like HTTP and REST.  • Mainly responsible for developing Restful API using Spring framework. Developed different controllers that return the response both in JSON and XML based on the request type.  • Developed backend web services using NodeJS and stored dependencies using NPM.  • Debugging and problem-solving skills with Eclipse, Android Studio, IntelliJ IDEA, and RAD.  • Managed WebLogic Server Clusters having 15 managed Servers on Cluster of Machines.  • Worked on versioning tools like GIT and SVN.  • Oversaw and regulated the company's version control on Bit Bucket and GitHub.  • Extensive experience in working on Keyword Driven, Data Driven and Hybrid framework using selenium web driver.  • Experience in interacting closely with scrum team members and in understanding User Stories to full fill the Knowledge in design and development of web applications and mobile applications using J2ee, Servlets, JSP, Custom tags and worked on frameworks like Spring, MVC, Struts.  • Knowledge in design and development of web applications and mobile applications using J2ee, Servlets, JSP, Custom tags and worked on frameworks like Spring, MVC, Struts.  • Involving in Building the modules in Linux environment with ANT script.  • Coding of custom Word press theme and template files using HTML, CSS, PHP, and Bootstrap 3 framework.  • Coded scripts to clean normalize, reformat data for loading into the system using Ruby scripts.  • Website development based on WordPress as a content management system.  • Hosted and maintained Drupal and WordPress websites.  • Developed .NET components using C# and involved in the deployment of those components.  • Created ASP.NET User Controls and Master pages to reduce the complexity of user interface design and to have a common look and feel.  • Proficient in C, C++, Python.  • Design and Develop programs in C++ to integrate as per the users requirements.  • A native android application with the same functionality is developed in Java using Eclipse, Android SDK, HTML, jQuery Mobile, CSS, PhoneGap.  • Expert in iPhone, iPad, Objective C, Cocoa/Cocoa Touch, XCode, Swift, Jqtouch, Sencha Touch, Dojo Mobile, Jquery mobile with rich understanding of frameworks, memory management, multi-threading, best practices, and development tools.  • Developed iPhone and Android mobile app using Sencha Touch and Phonegap framework.  • Delivered mobile app for book reading capability with HTML5 Sencha and online service with Flash/Flex.  • Expert in iPhone, iPad, Objective C, Cocoa/Cocoa Touch, XCode, Swift, Jqtouch, Sencha Touch, Dojo Mobile, Jquery mobile with rich understanding of frameworks, Memory management, multi-threading, best practices, and development tools.  • Designed and developed multi-protocol telecom Single-Page Architecture application using Node.js, Express and Jade on the backend.  • Developed UI components for email and link sharing of documents and files for a Content Management System using Backbone.js and jQuery.  • Developed prototypes using Flex, ActionScript, JavaScript, HTML, GWT and Java.  • Tested applications prior to final review to ensure that all issues were resolved in the most efficient manner.  • Developed Coding the presentation layer using WPF and Silverlight.  • Responsible for building the application front end UI in Flex, ActionScript, FlashBuilder4 and Parsley.    Environment: Iphone, Windows phone, Blackberry, Flash, Flex, Silverlight, Actionscirpt, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle, Apache CXF, Rest, JSON, Webservices, Eclipse, Weblogic, GITHUB, Selenium, SCRUM, JSP, Servlets, ANT, Google Web Toolkit, Web 2.0, SOA, JMS, PHP, Ruby, Wordpress, Drupal, .net, ASP, C, C++, Phonegap, Senchatouch, JQtouch, HTML, CSS, DOJOMobile, Node.js, Backbone UI Developer Workday. Inc - Bloomfield, CT October 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Strong Programming abilities in Objective-C, Cocoa Touch Framework, SQLite, Core Data, iphone SDK.  • Interacted with the stake-holders and gather requirements and business artifacts based on Agile SCRUM methodology.  • Provided dedicated support and timely issue resolution to clients following successful app launch.  • Contributed with native apps (IOS) written in Objective-C.  • Designed and developed based on the work data flow principle called SQL lite.  • Developed the App using Cocoa touch frameworks on UIKit.  • Transformed wire frames into HTML and iOS prototypes.  • Developed HTML views with HTML, CSS, Bootstrap.  • Utilized XML and JSON to parse, display and navigate through large quantities of data.  • Developed Navigation between views was mixture of using UI Navigation Controller.  • Made use of Categories to extend the functionality of Objective C classes.  • Used continuous integration for test automation.  • Assisted with bug fixes and support for all iOS applications. Involved in full life cycle for developing the system.  • Developed web pages by using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used Eclipse to develop source code and debug the application.  • Built a custom cross-platform architecture using Java, Spring Core/MVC, and Hibernate.  • Implemented Web-Services to integrate between different applications internal and third party components using SOAP and REST services using Apache-CXF.  • Configured Queues and Topics as part of application integration and defined Camel routing between queues/topics.  • Reviewed the XML logical data model and developed XML schema XSD to validate the model and used JAX-B for Xml-Java Mapping and XML-XSLT conversion.  • Developed and published web-services using WSDL, SOAP and XML, JAX-B based on top-down and bottom-up approaches.  • Experience in pre-testing the Web-Service calls with SOAP UI using end-points.  • Coordinated Unit Testing by JUnit, Easy Mock, Integration and User Acceptance Testing and developed test cases for bean components.  • Used Subversion for maintaining the component and for release and version management. And JIRA for defect tracking.  • Maven tool has been used for the build and deploy procedure scripts in UNIX, Linux and Windows environment using Hudson.  • Been though Release process for project execution as part of SCRUM.    Environment: Iphone, Windows phone, Blackberry, Flash, Flex, Silverlight, Actionscirpt, MYSQL, APACHE CXF, REST, JSON, Webservices, Eclipse, WebLogic, GITHUB, Selenium, SCRUM, JSP, Servlets, ANT, Google Web Toolkit, JMS, PHP, Ruby, Wordpress, Drupal, .NET, C++, Phonegap, Senchatouch, JQtouch, HTML, CSS, DOJOMobile, Node.js, Backbone Sr. Web Developer The Active Network - Austin, TX April 2013 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Created numerous web applications utilizing MV, C#, jQuery, AJAX and Web Services.  • Instituted and trained fellow developers on a custom Data Access Layer utilizing the Entity Framework, LINQ and Lambda expressions.  • Implemented cross-departmental Innovation Meetings to engage employees to explore new avenues of revenue-generating or cost-saving ideas.  • Coordinated branching/merging strategies incorporating Team Foundation Server 2010.  • Assisted in running various Agile project management meetings (Sprint Planning Meetings, Scrums, etc)  • Built popular and trending module with ListView library, providing users the popular and trending projects on GitHub  • Hands on experience using Selenium and writing Selenium tests through Eclipse including  Quality Center.  • Working in agile scrum development environment with bi-weekly sprint.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries and Struts Tag libraries.  • Experience in using Java/J2EE technologies like JSPs, Servlets, EJBs, JDBC, JNDI.  • Integration of ANT/Nexus, Cloudbees Jenkins, Urban Code Deploy with Patterns/Release, Git, Confluence, Jira.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive UI web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, Google web toolkit and CSS.    Environment: JAVA, J2EE, IOS, ANDROID, HIBERNATE, C#, JQUERY, ENTITY FRAMEWORK, SQL SERVER 2008, TFS 2010, MVC, GITHUB, SELENIUM, SCRUM, JSP, SERVLETS, ANT, GOOGLE WEB TOOLKIT Web Developer Collateral Risk Solutions - Silver Spring, MD May 2010 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Created and maintained numerous business critical applications. These applications were the cornerstone of the organization and needed to be highly effective as well as very efficient.  • Developed efficiency reports for senior management.  • Developed an online task assignment application. This application is used to assign various tasks in the business process to an employee and provide relevant metrics to management.  • Developed and maintained web services to allow clients to submits orders and receive reports.  • Worked closely with various department heads throughout the SDLC.  • Created a repository on GitHub and connected with local and server for developer maintain the application code on local.  • Involved in Automation of Web Application using Selenium.  • Experienced in ALM Tools TFS, Jira, VersionOne, Rally as Scrum Master for project planning, metrics and reporting.  • Developed a web-based system with HTML, XML, Java Script, JSP Tag Libraries, CSS and Custom Tag Libraries using Struts 1.2 framework.  • Worked with SOAP, dependency injection frameworks and Java Servlets.  • Designed and developed lots of custom Wordpress codes, themes and plug-in.  • Worked heavily on Drupal CMS development and developed various custom modules.  • Expertise in developing application using Microsoft .NET framework, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, VB.NET, C#, WPF.  • Utilized ASP.NET 2.0 validation controls and JavaScript to perform client side validation.  • Re-Designed, coded, implemented and tested new features using C#, C++, QT.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Android, IOS, Mobile Apps, C#/VB.NET, SQL Server 2005, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS, REST/SOAP, Crystal Reports, Agile, Silverlight, GITHUB, SELENIUM, SCRUM, JSP, SERVLETS, WORDPRESS, DRUPAL, .NET, ASP, C++ Education MS in Computer Science University Of Delaware