Salesforce Developer/Admin Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Admin Salesforce Developer/Admin - Express Scripts Franklin Lakes, NJ • Over 7+ years of experience in Information Technology including 5 years of experience on Salesforce CRM Platform as a Developer and Administrator.  • Experience in Development, Administration, Configuration, Requirements gathering, Implementation, Integration and Support of Salesforce  • Performed the full range of activities in the SDLC i.e. review and validate functional design, implementation, testing, deployment and Maintenance.  • Maintained the Customer Portal/Partner Portals implementation to provide support and access for customers.  • Good experience in setting up Organization Role Hierarchy, provisioning data visibility rules by configuring OWD, Criteria/Owner based and Apex managed sharing rules.  • Strong Implementation and Integration experience using Custom objects, Triggers, workflow rules, Approval Process, Visual Force Pages, and Apex classes.  • Experience in Salesforce Sales cloud, Marketing cloud and Service cloud implementation.  • Good Knowledge on creating Lightning components and Lightning Applications.  • Proficient in using meta-data migration tools like Eclipse IDE and Salesforce Apex Data Loader.  • Integrated Salesforce with external applications like oracle systems using Force.com APIs (SOAP and REST)  • Experience in using different tools like GitHub.  • Experience in integrating SFDC with 3rd party applications and tools.  • Worked with Jitterbit tool to load data into salesforce.  • Worked on Process Builder, workflow rules to add more functionality for the users.  • Report extractions to various formats, Reporting Snapshots, Dashboards, and Email templates according to application requirements.  • Customized compact layout and Navigation menu in the Salesforce Mobile App to meet the user requirements.  • Maintained CPQ (Configure, Price, Quote) tool updated with latest functionality by Installing Apttus CPQ releases.  • Experience with Agile environment.  • Resolve the Cases and support the team on urgent bases, Implementation and working with real-time troubleshooting.  • Highly motivated team player with communication, presentation and interpersonal skills. Willing to work in a challenging and cross-platform environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Developer/Admin Express Scripts - Franklin Lakes, NJ June 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller classes and Triggers for functional needs in the application.  • Used field level security along with page layouts to manage access to certain fields.  • Involved in design, development, planning, testing and integration of Salesforce cloud services.  • Integration with external systems using SOAP, REST, Bulk APIs  • Created workflow rules and validation rules.  • Integrated applications using Web services by consuming the WSDL files for extracting the data.  • Deploying Apex Classes, Triggers and other custom components using outbound change sets in Sandbox to Inbound change sets in Production.  • Created Test Classes to provide maximum coverage to triggers and other classes.  • Integration of Salesforce Cloud with other AppExchange applications.  • Used Platform based technologies like Visual force to provide UI to the custom objects.  • Worked with the customization, Data Migration and Integration tools like Apex Data Loader etc.  • Created various Reports like summary reports, matrix reports and Dashboards.  • Experience in creating Lightning Components and used Lightning Design System to convert existing Visualforce pages to Lightning components.  • Creating, updating and maintaining technical and functional documentation related to User stories and Salesforce.  • Used process builder for visualizing and creating automated business processes.  • Involved in data mapping and data Migration from Oracle database to SalesForce.com and Migrated leads, accounts and contacts to the Sales Cloud with help of Jitterbit.  • Provided support to end users of CRM via cases to ensure proper business practice.  • Worked on maintaining, integrating and configuring with Apttus CPQ.  • Configured the GitHub to maintain the different versions in common development environment.  • Experience with Agile environment.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Data Loader, Apex Classes, Controllers, triggers, Visual Force, Workflow & Approvals, Agile, Lightning, GitHub, Apttus CPQ, User stories, SOAP, Web services, Process Builder, Jitterbit, Custom Reports, Dashboards, Salesforce App exchange, Eclipse IDE, Oracle Database. Salesforce Developer Alexion, Newhaven, CT October 2013 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked as Salesforce Developer; Designed, and Developed Custom functionalities.  • Implemented Agile Methodologies, with continuous builds and controlling iterative and incremental projects.  • Worked closely with business analysts and performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements to design the solutions.  • Using best Salesforce practices - Designed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, Created Batch Apex, Apex Scheduler and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Used various Visualforce components to update a Visualforce in response to a user's actions.  • Used Visualforce to build enrich UI for creating Custom buttons and for routing to new pages.  • Created page layouts, validation rules, email templates, approval processes and Case assignment rules as per the Business requirements.  • Involved in migrating data into Salesforce application using apex data loader  • Prepared plans and wrote test Classes for successful rollout, and scheduled sandbox refreshes.  • Generated Apex Classes using WSDL and wrote business logic layer for integration with external web services to the system.  • Deployed salesforce components using meta-data API across various sandbox and production instances with Change Set and Eclipse.  • Implemented Apex Data loader to automate the data loading process for the sandbox refresh activity.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, filed updates to implement business logic.  • Used Force.com Explore to write SOQL & SOSL queries with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Developed proof of concepts (POCs) for business analysts, and worked with them for the requirement understanding.  • Performed User stories on agile methodology.  • Experience in managing Repositories using Jenkins and GitHub.  • Created Workflow alerts, and automated email response and used series of Ant Scripts to commit and pull files from GitHub.    Environment:  Salesforce.com CRM Application Platform, Force.com, Apex Language, Apex Triggers, Apex Data loader, sales cloud, service cloud, Visualforce, SOQL, GitHub, Jenkins, SOAP, REST, SOSL, WSDL, Custom Objects, Tabs, Page Layouts, Workflows, User stories, Approval Processes, Email, Messaging, Dashboards, Reports, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Agile. Salesforce Developer/Admin Liberty Mutual - Dover, NH February 2012 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Worked with the user group for requirement gathering throughout the planning and implementation.  • Designed, and developed Custom objects, validation rules, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, Visual Force Pages to suit to needs of application.  • Migrated data using Apex Data loader to centralize data and processes across different divisions that were previously using decentralized systems / databases.  • Used Apex classes and Visual force page to customize partner portal and make it convenient for customers to review and renew policies.  • Worked on Sales cloud with Accounts, Contacts, Cases and Solutions to generate towards developing business.  • Worked on Service Cloud console with exposure to Mobile App Integrations.  • Created web to lead forms, assigned tasks, and managed workflows for managing Marketing app.  • Worked on various SalesForce.com standard objects like Campaigns, Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Opportunity, Forecast, Cases, Reports and Dashboards.  • Used Force.com Eclipse IDE for developing Visual Force pages.  • Created workflow rules to send auto response emails, email alerts, field updates, and other tasks.  • Designed various HTML Email templates.  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in application using Force.com IDE.  • Developed and configured various Reports for different user profiles based on need in organization.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Force.com API, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Web services, Sales cloud, service cloud, Pardot, Visual Force, SalesForce.com Data Loader, Security Controls, HTML, XML, CSS, Java Script, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Dashboards, Analytical Snapshot and Data Migration Web UI Developer Renowned Corp September 2010 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, Ajax.  • Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Used jQuery plugins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client-side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Involved in gathering business requirements, analyzing the project and created UML diagrams such as Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and flowcharts.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures.  • Developed Page layouts, Navigation and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  • Involved in writing and modifying Procedure, Queries, Views and Triggers and calling them from JavaScript.    Environment: HTML 4.x, CSS2.x, JavaScript, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON, XML, Eclipse, Sub Version. Education Bachelor's Skills WEB SERVICES (6 years), APEX (5 years), LOADER (5 years), SALES (5 years), SALESFORCE.COM (5 years), Salesforce.com platform, Data Loader, Apex Classes, Controllers, triggers, Visual Force, Workflow & Approvals, Agile, Lightning, GitHub, Apttus CPQ, User stories, SOAP, Web services, Process Builder, Jitterbit, Custom Reports, Dashboards, Salesforce App exchange, Eclipse IDE, Oracle Database. (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    CRM Tools Salesforce.com  Salesforce Technologies  Visualforce, Apex Controllers, Salesforce1, Triggers, Data Loader, Translation workbench, Custom Labels, Custom Settings, Data Categories, Article Management, SOQL/SOSL, Service Cloud, Marketing cloud, Sales Cloud, Lightning Framework, CPQ, Import Wizard, Jitterbit.    Languages Java, SQL, Apex, JavaScript, AngularJS  Databases MS Access, Oracle 9, SQL Server 2005/2008, MySQL  Ajax, JQuery, Bootstrap, Angular JS, Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, HTML, Web 2.0, Ant, Visual Studio Visual Studio Team Suite, SaaS, Subversion, IE Web Developer, Tomcat Server, IBM Web Sphere.    Operating Systems Windows NT /2000/XP Pro/ Vista, Windows Server 2000/2003/2008, Linux, Unix, Macintosh.