RF Transmissions technician RF Transmissions technician Web Developer Euless, TX My name is Zaiquise [Zi-keys] Marshall, and I’m the greatest asset that your company doesn’t have. I’m a Jr Developer with the talent, skills, and mindset of a Sr Developer and a Comedian. I shine in any area of programming, but I excel in the Frontend (preferably Angular 2-8 environment). Due to my military training/background, I matured at an early age; as well as embraced leadership, integrity, and excellence in all I do. Though my resume seems like I bounced from company to company, that is not correct. My first job was an Undergraduate program/internship program, so once you graduate you get kicked to the curb or offered a full time position if you’re good enough (which I was offered, but turned down). My second job severely lacked communication and proper management, and had no room for growth; which is when I received a phone call for my last job. My last job was my dream job; however, the company went belly up. The CEO hated to lose me. Nevertheless, I’m back on the market, looking for somewhere to call home. Salary doesn’t impress me, great leadership, job security, and great company culture does. Therefore, if you lack either, do not bother reviewing my resume or offering me a job.    Demo Sites (Unfinished):   https://cm-demo-a82ec.firebaseapp.com  https://rsc-demo.firebaseapp.com Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience RF Transmissions technician Air Force National Guard February 2014 to Present I deploy, sustain, troubleshoot, and repair a variety of communications devices. These devices include antenna systems, tuners, and transmission lines. I, also, program equipment, build networks, create topologies, handle encryption/decryption, and perform IT & networking task.  • Responsible for maintaining/troubleshooting/testing 500+ Radios and Communications Equipment  • Responsible for maintaining/troubleshooting/testing laser guiding missile systems  • Responsible for upgrading OS on military laptops and computer equipment  • Responsible for setting up computer and radio networks  • Responsible for building, setting up, and programming telecommunications equipment  • Responsible for IT and Satellite Telecommunications setup/maintenance Full Stack Developer (PHP and Angular) Roundstone Professional Services - Dallas, TX March 2019 to July 2019 As a Software Developer for Roundstone, I am responsible for redesigning several legacy sites and systems that we have in place. Since we are a start up company, we don’t have an official technology stack; however, I started off using Phalcon Framework, PHP, XML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Pure.CSS, MySQL, Sequel Pro, and JSON. Nevertheless, I’m transitioning our Dev shop to Angular 7/8 with my site redesigns. During this process, I have acted as a Developer and Web Designer. I take compliance standards from our Business team, work my creative magic to generate mockups, and then I bring my artwork to life. Unfortunately, the company went under. Angular Developer Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) - Irving, TX August 2018 to March 2019 As a Software Developer for TCS, I work with our client, Citi Bank, to develop new features/updates, make UI changes, make Service updates, and fix defects. Our Technology Stack consist of: Angular 6, Angular CLI, Citi DLL Framework, HTML5, CSS3, TypeScript, JavaScript, Micro Services, SourceTree, and Visual Studio Code. We follow the SCRUM mythology of Agile, and use JIRA to create and update our User Stories. Web Developer Web Designer Fenway Group April 2017 to May 2018 At Fenway, I worked as a Web Developer/ Web Designer/Automated Tester. I have worked with many programming tools/software such as: Dev Express/ Dev Extreme, PyCharm, Visual Studio 2017 & 2015, Visual Studio Code, and MySQL. Also, I have learned and used many programming languages such as: JavaScript, Typescript, HTML, CSHTML, XML, Python, Robot, CSS3, Selenium, Robot Framework, and Angular 2.    Projects:  P1: Web Page Redesign Role: Web Developer & QA Tester Team: 7 Team Lead: Kyle Branch  The project for First Care was to migrate an existing web application to a modern MVC architecture using Microsoft Technologies. Our initial scope was to use Agile SCRUM development (3 week sprints) and deliver a full stack application with the requested migrated features as well as new enhancements. This also included assisting in the definition of the architecture and patterns for the new modern application. In the project, I performed task such as:  • Built automated test using Robot Framework  • Troubleshooted/Configured certain parts of the webpage  • Developed the UI for various pages and widgets of the website  • Convert HTML 3 to HTML 5  • Converted/Updated Inline CSS3 to separate CSS files  • Followed code standards to match customer specifications  • Pseudocode design & Reviews  • Branch/Merge at Project Milestones (Includes Check-out/Check-in)  • Middle/Backend Development  • Developed methods/functions to take user actions & return information  • Languages, Frameworks, and tools learned OTJ: CSS3, C#, Angular 2, JavaScript, Typescript, Postman, PyCharm, Node.js, CSHTML, XML, .NET Core, .ASP NET, Robot Framework, Selenium, KnockoutJsS Bootstrap, Python, and jQuery    P2: Web Page Redesign Role: Web Developer & QA Tester Team: 8 Team Lead: Kyle Branch  For this project, we created a Provider Web Portal for First Care Insurance. We used the same technologies and software as P1 to recreate a better and featureful Portal than the current one. I performed tasks such as:  • Developed a fully functional and responsive Navigation Bar for the page  • Created page components for each main menu and sub-menu item  • Routed pages correctly using Angular 2 methods  • Developed Typescript functions for certain features  • Developed Wireframes and developed UI/UX for multiple pages  • Took on Leadership roles to assist the Team Lead  • Created services for many components  • Changed and Added database fields using SQL Server in Visual Studio  • Wired-up and created some backend logic for certain services and components  • Reverse Engineered Dev-Extreme widgets and components  • Redesigned/Upgraded pages from top to bottom  • Implemented new button color scheme that I created and suggested to the client    P3: Web Page Redesign Role: Web Developer Team: 7 Team Lead: Aaron Gray  This project is currently in the works, and in it we have to create an Account Web Portal that will consist of two portals (Broker and Group) in one for First Care Insurance. We are using the same technologies and software as P1 and P2 to recreate a completely new Web Portal from scratch. I have performed tasks such as:  • Create a new Branch in Visual Studio TFS to work out of • Create and setup the new Solution, and added in the project files using .NET Core and Angular 2  • Setup the local host URLs for the separate Portals in the project  • Modify the Navbar to fit the desired layout format  • Create a Member page that consist of five web pages in one, using DevExtreme widgets and components from the Member Portal (Project 1)  • Took on the role of secondary Team Lead to help the team become more effective and efficient  • Setup client meetings to discuss different functions of the new  Portal, all to gather valuable information to ensure a deliverable product that satisfies client's needs and wants Education BS in Computer Information Systems Louisiana Tech University March 2018 Certificate in Radio Frequency Transmissions Systems USAF Technical Training School May 2015 Certificate in Computer Networking USAF Technical Training School Keesler AFB January 2015 Skills .NET (2 years), ASP (2 years), BOOTSTRAP (3 years), C# (1 year), JAVASCRIPT (1 year), TypeScript (1 year), Angular 2 (3 years), KnockoutJS (Less than 1 year), Angular 4 (2 years), Slack (2 years), Postman (2 years), CSS3 (3 years), HTML 5 (3 years), NativeScript (Less than 1 year), DevExpress (1 year), jQuery (3 years), Selenium 3 (1 year), Robot Framework (1 year), Sharepoint (1 year), TFS (1 year), PHP (1 year), CSS (3 years), Git (2 years), MYSQL (1 year), Angular 7 (1 year), Angular 8 (Less than 1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/z-marshall https://cm-demo-a82ec.firebaseapp.com/ https://rsc-demo.firebaseapp.com/ Military Service Branch: Air Force National Guard Service Country: United States Rank: Senior Airman February 2014 to Present Certifications/Licenses Secret Security Clearance February 2014 to February 2024 I serve in the Air Force National Guard, and my job requires me to have clearance. Additional Information Skills  • Proficient in: Visual Basic, Selenium 3, Robot Framework, HTML5, CSS3, SCSS, Typescript, JavaScript, DevExtreme, Angular 2-8, Angular Materials, Angular CLI, Gulp, Git, Node.js, .NET Core, .NET Framework 4.0, PHP, XML, XSD, JSON, Selenium2Library, Bootstrap 3 & 4, CSHTML, MySQL, Visual Studio, SharePoint, Slack, Visual Studio TFS, Postman, PyCharm, and jQuery    • Familiar with: , Oracle, VS SQL Server, Python, C#, AngularJS, KnockoutJS, React, Vue.js, Micro-services, and ASP.NET    • Familiar with Cyber Security, COMSEC, and INFOSEC    • Follow Scrum Guide