Full Stack Web Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Web Developer - DigitalCrafts Gainesville, GA Goal-oriented Web Developer with strong commitment to collaboration and solutions-oriented problem-solving. Able to use various web design software to develop customer-focused websites and designs. Committed to high standards of web design, user experience, usability and speed for multiple types of end-users. Successful at maintaining customer satisfaction through effective customer support. Work Experience Full Stack Web Developer DigitalCrafts - Atlanta, GA February 2019 to Present • Researched new technologies, software packages and hardware products for use in website projects.  • Represented web team at meetings with executives and discussed project goals and milestones.  • Analyzed requirements and designed, developed and implemented software applications for multiple websites.  • Used programming capabilities in SQL and JavaScript and other libraries as needed. Fuel Attendant Sam's Club - Oakwood, GA June 2012 to February 2019 • Strived to excel in the customer service department by embodying the Sam's Club brand by ensuring that all areas ran smoothly, the facilities were top-notch, and all customers with their needs met and an outstanding customer experience.  • Shared best practices for sales and customer service with other team members to help improve the store's efficiency.  • Fostered a positive work environment by consistently treating all employees and customers with respect and consideration. Including but not limited to successfully training 4+ new sales associates each quarter. Education High school or equivalent Skills DESIGN PATTERNS, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, NODE.JS, PYTHON, POSTGRESQL, jQuery, BEST PRACTICES, OPTIMIZATION, PRODUCT TESTING, SOFTWARE TESTING, React, Node, Nodejs, AWS, Front End, HTML, Front End Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/chris-childers-450b1a171 https://github.com/ChristopherChilders https://aviatorchilders.club Additional Information Skills  • Network development and administration  • Software best practices  • Web user interfaces  • Software testing  • Design patterns and principles  • Web development projects  • Website optimization  • Self-motivated  • Skilled in HMTL5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, React.js, PostgreSQL, A.W.S., Express, Node.js, and Python  • Strong verbal communication  • Debugging proficiency  • Conflict resolution  • Team leadership  • Interpersonal and written communication  • Product testing