Sr. UI/React Developer Sr. UI/React <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI/React Developer - Master Card St. Louis, MO ? 8+ years of UI Developer in requirements analysis, design, coding, testing and production support of scalable, Multi-Tier distributed fault-tolerant Enterprise applications while meeting realistic implementation schedules and adhering to development goals and principles.  ? Experience in full Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) using Waterfall and Agile methodologies and participated in scrum sessions.  ? Expertise in Object Oriented Software Development (OOAD),Gathering new requirements and understand/document business/technical requirements in UML using IBM Rational suite of products.  ? Experience in Developing User Interface(UI) Rich Web Applications and Web Service Applications using Front End/User Interface(UI) Technologies like HTML 4/5, XHTML, DHTML, XML, Object Oriented JavaScript, JavaScript MV* (MVC, MVVM), JQuery, Backbone JS, Angular JS, Angular 2.0, Angular 4.0/5.0 Node JS, React JS, Redux, Ext JS, JSON, Bootstrap, Ajax, CSS 3/4, CSS Frameworks, LESS, SASS, SCSS, JSP, D3.JS, Handlebars, RWD, Grunt, Gulp, Hibernate, Spring, Struts and PHP Technologies.  ? Experience in creating task analysis, Responsive Web design (RWD), workflows information architecture, user profile, scenarios, journey map, wireframes, site maps, storyboards, mockups, prototypes, and UIs using Balsamic, Axure RP, Photoshop, and Illustrator.  ? Experienced in React JS and working with React Flux architecture and Redux frameworks.  ? Experience in DOM (Document Object Model) and DOM functions to use in interacting with objects in HTML, XHTML and XML documents  ? Good Experience in React.js for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts  ? Solid knowledge in Angular UI bootstrap, Angular Material, Angular Aria and Font Awesome to add functionalities to the angular js based user interface.  ? Experience in Spring Modules like Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring ORM, Spring Security, Spring AOP and MVVM architecture.  ? Experience in using Angular2/Angular4 factory and services for dependency injection, developed reusable components using Custom Directives in Angular JS  ? Worked on JavaScript frameworks (Angular 4/5, Node.js, and React JS) to augment browser based applications.  ? Experience in developing mobile applications by using Adobe Phone gap/ Phone Gap Build, Ionic, Sencha Touch, Apache Cordova  ? Created an Application using React Native framework for both iOS & Android.  ? Proficient in developing web page quickly and effectively using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, Angular2, Angular4, jQuery and React JS and handling cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on both Windows and Mac.  ? Experienced in building cross browser compatibility web pages in Responsive Design using Bootstrap and adapt to the changing environment.  ? Expert in designing web applications and web contents utilizing various Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques  ? Worked on React Native which took a completely different path toward app development - JavaScript code, CSS-like stylesheets and all-too-familiar, HTML-like tags for layout  ? Good knowledge in Confluence(documents), Stash(Branch Creation), Git(Code Repository), Jira( Stories Tracking), Jenkins (Auto build), Ansible(Auto Deployment), SonarQube and Fortify(Code Quality) Tools.  ? Experience in working with the development of Android, IOS Native, Hybrid and Web mobile applications.  ? Knowledge in current web standards, cross-browser compatibility and Responsive Web Design (RWD) methodologies.  ? Proficiency in Debugging and troubleshooting existing application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  ? Expertise in analyzing the DOM Layout, Java Script functions, Cascading Styles across cross-browser using Fire Bug, Developer Tool Bar.  ? Experienced in AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes Amazon AWS Cloud Administration which includes services like EC2, S3, EBS, LAMBDA, Cloud Front etc.  ? Developed web pages complying with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG), ADA and W3C standards.  ? Expert in using various grids like Angular UI Grid, Kendo UI Grid for populating the data and Experienced in Data Visualization using D3.JS.  ? Strong working experience with Chrome APIs and Chrome Extension.  ? Extensive experience as web developer with a strong background working on open source technologies, including PHP, HTML, CSS, CSS3, MySQL, JavaScript, Photoshop, Image Editing tools.  ? Experience with creating and reviewing UI design specifications, developing prototypes and conducting usability tests.  ? Developed the back end using Groovy and Grails, Value Object and DAO and used different design strategies like Façade pattern, proxy command pattern to efficiently use resources.  ? Experience in consuming RESTful Web Services to implement AJAX call and updating dynamic functionality of HTML in JavaScript, JQuery and Angular JS.  ? Experience with Database Systems like SQL Server, PostgreSQL, Sybase, MySQL, Oracle, MongoDB, and DB2, by scaling across data centers and in-depth understanding of Database Concepts, triggers, joins.  ? Experience on developing latest version of Object Oriented JavaScript Libraries like Angular.JS, Node.JS, Backbone JS and had hands on experience with Web Responsive using Bootstrap.  ? Strong Knowledge and Experience on Collections, Threading, Garbage collection, Exception handling, OOPs concepts and Design Patterns in Core Java, NLP, Ontologies a plus.  ? Expertise in developing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture), REST and J2EE Web Services based on SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC using tools like Apache Axis.  ? Hands on Experience with Version Control tools like CVS, VSS, GIT and SVN for Source Code Control Systems like MS Visual Source Safe, TFS (Team Foundation Server) version management and some other tools like Jenkins, JIRA, Grunt, Gulp, Bower, Angular CLI.  ? Strong experience in Testing of developed User Interface (UI)/Front End applications using Testing Tools like Selenium, HP UFT/QFT, Sahi, Telerik Test Studio, Karma, Jasmine, SoaTest, SWAT, Coded UI, Cucumber, Load UI etc.  ? Experience in working with the development of Android, IOS Native, Hybrid and Web mobile applications.  ? Experience with using Database SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions and Packages for various validation purposes using Oracle 11g/10g, MySQL and PL/SQL.  ? Excellent working knowledge and thorough exposure on compatibility issues with different versions of browsers like Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Safari and Google Chrome.  ? Experience in working with multiple operating system including Windows, UNIX and Linux.  ? Experience in development tools like Net Beans IDE, Eclipse IDE and MS Visual Studio 2012.  ? Innovative and highly initiative taking team player, helped in saving time and costs in projects.  ? Participate in pair programming when appropriate.  ? Worked and help team members through pair programming and code reviews.  ? Good communications skills, quick learner, bi-lingual, self-motivated also excellent customer relations in collecting, and analyzing user requirements towards achieving goals set by the team.  ? Proficiency in coordination, management, problem solving, analytical and presentation skills. Work Experience Sr. UI/React Developer Master Card - St. Louis, MO Present Responsibilities:  ? Analysis, design, and development techniques in an agile environment. Specifically, the scrum framework and extreme / pair programming.  ? Built Web pages using HTML5, JavaScript, User Interface Design, XHTML, CSS3, D3.js, ECMAScript 6.0, Angular JS, Angular 4/5, Bootstrap, JSON, AJAX, React.JS, Redux, DOM.  ? Worked with source version control tool GIT to manage the code repository.  ? Developed responsive web pages by implementing Bootstrap CSS and CSS Media Queries.  ? Researching JavaScript based frameworks like React Native and Ionic/Cordova for frontend.  ? Proficient in developing Responsive Web Design using CSS3 Media Queries and CSS Bootstrap.  ? Generated container components using the functionalities provided by React JSX for maintaining performance.  ? Maintained web security and prevented cross-site scripting, SQL injection attacks by using parameterized queries.  ? Created the front-end web pages using React.js with Babel, JSX on HTML5, CSS3 to maintain performance.  ? Used JavaScript, jQuery, XML, AJAX calls for calling the REST API.  ? Used XML, XSD and JSON messages for Data transfer, JAXB API and DOM for XML parsing messages.  ? Worked on API integration with various tools like Mulesoft , Salesforce  ? Worked with Node.js modules like bower, express and mongoose and Involved in utilizing Node.js for the server hosting.  ? Created AWS Cloud Formation templates to create custom sized VPC, subnets, EC2 instances, ELB, Security Groups.  ? Worked with Angular 5 Forms, Validations, Modules, Factory Services, DOM, Events, Expressions, Directives, Controllers, filters, Http Request.  ? Implemented Angular5 Controllers to maintain each view data. Implemented Angular Service calls using Angular Factory.  ? Highly used Angular 5 router to build single page application for navigation through the different status and multiple modals.  ? Supported the backend team in dealing with JSON data from MongoDB database.  ? Worked on React-Native provides the benefits from both Native and Hybrid Mobile Apps.  ? Worked on building data center with AWS and Installed SVN, GIT, Jenkins images on AWS.  ? Automate the cloud deployments using chef, python and AWS Cloud Formation Templates  ? Designed Frontend with in object-oriented JavaScript Framework like bootstrap, Backbone.js, Node.js and AngularJS.  ? Created and consumed Web Services. Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by angular 2/4.  ? Used Node.js tools like Gulp, Grunt, Web pack; Developed internal CLI applications using Commander Module for application build.  ? Developed unit and integration tests for existing microservices using JUnit, Mockito and Docker.  ? Interacted with Rest API and used Ajax calls and JSON objects to read data from back end systems.  ? Studied and worked with Chrome APIs to collect URL data from the Chrome Extension.  ? Developed Google Chrome extension to preview themes, Integrated with Google Chrome extension APIs with JavaScript and jQuery to inject CSS.  ? Responsible for design and development of various components such as tab bars, map view, image picker, date picker, push notifications, sign-in/out features, profile management and navigation using react-native.  ? Good Experience in React JS for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts.  ? Developed custom Chrome extension to increase value of company software.  ? Collected and projected the fetched data into respective fields (textboxes, checkboxes, drop-down) using JSON objects.  ? Used ECMAScript6 new features for supporting classes, constructors and for inheritance.  ? Implemented ECMAScript 6 arrow functions for lexical scoping and less ceremony when defining an anonymous function.  ? Responsible for the implementation of Web Design based on CSS3, HTML5, Backbone JS and Bootstrap Front-End Framework.  ? Utilized Mockito framework for writing the test cases in the microservices.  ? Created Lambda function for making the serverless compute to the Image microservice in the photo pass application.  ? Used Virtual DOM and React libraries to render only the subcomponents of a webpage.  ? Worked with Flux as application architecture then moved on to REDUX as a state container for dynamic data handling.  Environment: Linux, Windows, Agile, React JS, Redux, Angular 4/5, Flux, DOM, Stash, Google Extension, HTML, HTML5, XHTML, CSS 3/4, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, XML, bootstrap.js, React.js, LESS, GIT, SASS, JEST, GWT (Google Web Toolkit), SOAP. Sr. UI/React JS Developer Delta Airlines - Atlanta, GA March 2015 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Collaborated with Scrum Agile team members to review user stories and supporting requirements and translated them into a system design. Implemented test driven development and pair programming.  ? Developed the UI layout and front-end programming (HTML) for web application that matched requirements.  ? Coordinated project activities and ensure that all project phases are followed and documented properly.  ? Extensively involved design discussions and user experience sessions to provide inputs on the layout and UX.  ? Used Angular2 in Single Page Application Development (SPAs).  ? Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, CSS and JavaScript framework Angular.JS and D3.JS.  ? Created TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.0.  ? Establish and provide architectural and design for the business requirements. Identify the reusability of common Web Services across various modules within the program.  ? Provide technical feasibility analysis for implementing new technology, application roadmaps and other technical considerations within the project.  ? Developed non-functional HTML, CSS pages from the mockups and involved in UI review with UI architect and Business Unit  ? Experience working with Redux for maintaining the consistency and for running the application in different environments (client, server, and native) which was also easy to test  ? Develop and improve mobile applications with React Native  Integrated Salesforce with Mule soft to connect with enterprise applications in the cloud and on-premise.  ? Integrated the Web Services and API for extracting the data from external systems to display in the pages of Salesforce  ? Reinventing the website with react REDUX to improve the experience of 1000+ users. Working on server side configuration for API route creation and connecting with Mongo DB Database.  ? Designed and developed the agent portal using framework AngularJS 2 along with HTML5, CSS3, and TypeScript.  ? Angular2 Built UI from components that made HTTP API calls to Laravel back end via Service Providers. Increased speed using DB caching, Ahead of Time compilation, Tree Shaking, and Minification. Advanced functionality includes events, shared services, and parent-child communication.  ? Automated AWS deployments with shell scripts and Ant scripts, and connected AWS test environments with hosts used for builds. Created profiles, manifests for VMware servers, and pushing them to AWS instances using puppet.  Implemented and maintained the monitoring and alerting of production and corporate servers/storage using AWS Cloud watch.  ? Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML4/5, DOM, XHTML, AJAX and CSS 3 in on-going projects.  ? Involved in Development of Restful web services using Jersey for the functionalities like account creation, account amendment, account deactivation, account reactivation.  ? Worked on scripts and Retention programs with SQL, Used Mongo Db  ? Familiar with concepts of Directives, Data-Binding and Dependency Injection in Angular JS.  Involved in development of User Interface using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, and jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS and Angular-formly. Implemented REST Microservices using Spring boot. Generated Metrics with method level granularity and Persistence using Spring AOP and Spring Actuator.  ? Developed all client-side logical implementation part of applications with Angular JS controllers under specific modules, manipulating nodes in DOM tree.  ? Developed user interface by using the React JS, Redux, React Router for SPA development.  ? Developed various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux library for other parallel projects.  ? Combined React.js & Babel, User Interface Design and loaded results via AJAX.  • Consumed RESTful web services using AngularJS HTTP service and rendered the JSON data on the screen.  • Used AngularJS AJAX effectively to create pagination and with client-side events like quick search. Design and build the frontend page for showing the billing and payment information using HTML, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Involved in Analyzing, preparing technical design specification documents as per the Requirements, Architecture, Development and Maintenance of high traffic application built in Java.  • Used Spring Batch for processing large volumes of data, transaction management, logging and resource management.  • Used the lightweight container of the Spring Framework to provide architectural flexibility for inversion of controller (IOC).  • Implemented server-side task using Java, Servlets, Java Beans and XML.  • JBoss Application server implementation, support, workload management and performance tuning including Web server setup configuration with JBoss App Server.  • Developed web applications using Rational Application Developer (RAD) and deployed it in WebSphere application server. Experience in installing, configuring and maintaining Application Servers like  • Developed certain features of the application functionality i.e. CRUD (Create, read, update, delete) features using Backbone.js, Require.js and Responsive Web Design.  • Used Log4J for logging framework and error handling.  ? Expert in Utilizing MongoDB as database to store consumer's order records, payment history, personal information, online shopping cart information and so o  • Generating and monitoring monthly reports using MVC design pattern for all the services and applications.  • Used jQuery for creating various widgets, data manipulation, data traversing, form validations, create the content on the fly depend on the user request, implementing Ajax features for the application.  • Followed MVC Structure to develop Application in AngularJS and D3.JS.  • Working with Bootstrap twitter framework to Design single page application.  • Involved in converting few of the existing ASP applications into Servlet/JSP applications with Ajax features using prototype v2 and CSS tags.  • Produce dynamic, interactive data visualizations in web browsers using SVG, HTML5, and CSS.  • Experience in cross browser compatibility check and thoroughly performed unit testing and integration testing.  • Re-designing/ developing the main website to improve user experience and add new functionality Using CSS layouts.  • Used D3JS to select elements, create SVG objects, style them, and add transitions.  • Used jQuery - Ajax plug-in to GET the data in JSON format and displayed on HTML page.  • Created Angular JS Controllers, Scope, Model, view, Services, Factory etc., for Isolate scopes perform operations in UI.  • Developed Client/Server Applications on MVC (Model View Controller), MVVM (Model-View-View-Model).  • Wrote application level code to add functionality on the client-side validation using Angular JS and JavaScript.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • Developed fast loading images using Adobe Photoshop CS3.  • Widely used optimization techniques in existing code and used asynchronous AJAX calls to fetch data from Java backend Web services.  • Fixed the bugs detected during JUnit Testing, Integration testing and worked with all kinds of data formats like XML, JSON for exchange of data.  • Tested/De-bugged on browser using Firebug.  • Managed application state using server and client-based State Management options.    Environment: Windows, Linux, Angular 2, Node JS, React JS, Salesforce, XML, Stash,HTML5/HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, spring, Hibernate, Backbone JS, D3.JS, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, MVC, DOM, SQL, Microservices, Web service - REST, SVG, MVC, MVVM, SOA, Bootstrap, Responsive Web Design (RWD), Grunt, Web Pack, Gulp, TFS, SOAP, REST, WSDL, Restful, SVN. UI Developer Walgreens - Chicago, IL August 2013 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Essentially involved in all phases of SDLC to structure the unformatted requirements.  ? Involved in Agile process, monthly Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the application.  ? Involved in the requirement analysis along with the estimations and scheduling.  ? Worked as UI developer for several internal projects handling the complete frontend stack using technologies like HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT and JQUERY.  ? Implemented Single Page Application architecture and client side MVC using AngularJS and Used UI-route module to achieve nested routes in the SPA  ? Worked on Model-View- Controller (MVC) Architecture on the client side making use of AngularJS and  ? Involved in implementation of RESTful web service APIs using AJAX calls and JSON as data exchanging tool.  ? Involved in the implementation of open- source web application frameworks like Bootstrap and AngularJS.  ? Designed the responsive layout of the Website, Modal Login Page by using Bootstrap.  ? Implemented root Scope to implement Authentication and Authorization.  ? Proficiently applied the directives in UI Bootstrap Library to make more dynamic and smooth UI, like Modal Popup, Dropdown navigation bar and Date picker controls.  ? Used Angular JS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  ? Worked on cross-platform and browser compatibility issues for this application.  ? Generated responsive data tables using with Bootstrap grid system.  ? Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop.  ? Used JSP, Servlets, and HTML to create web interfaces. Developed Java Beans and used custom tag libraries for embedding dynamic into JSP pages.  ? Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and used JavaScript methods and properties.  ? Involved in integrating the Java code (API) in JSP Pages.  ? Developed the JavaScript file with the help of Web pack and babel. Implemented Web pack for bundling j query and other third party library files and babel was implemented to use ECMA Script 6 features  ? Worked with Flux as application architecture then moved on to REDUX as a state container for dynamic data handling.  ? Worked with Flux as application architecture then moved on to REDUX as a state container for dynamic data handling.  ? Had good experience in implementing the Node.js server-side code to interact with Mongo DB to store and retrieve data by using the Mongoose drivers.  ? Created View Models to encapsulate all models and classes used on the different views for more stable, organized and clean code to reuse in Views.    Environment: HTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, LESS, JavaScript, Coffee Script, J Query, Grunt, Bower, Node.js, Java, AJAX, XML, Photoshop CS6, Web Pack, ES6, d3.js,Illustrator CS6, JIRA, Microservices, Mongo DB, Maven, SQL, Tomcat, GIT, Agile, MAC, UNIX / Linux. Web Developer L&T Infotech - IN June 2011 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Worked closely with SME's, developers and other IT teams to understand the scope of the project and accordingly, gather functional requirements of the project to design and implement the application.  ? Worked on accessibility for making user interfaces perceivable, operable, and understandable  ? Involved in developing various UI templates and was extensively involved in developing the business logic layer.  ? Built the Responsive UI screen for create new customer process, create bill to and ship to screens, customer search results page and customer dashboard page using Bootstrap.  ? Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and hence building type ahead feature for zip code, city and county look up using J Query, AJAX.  ? Responsible to store and retrieve user entered data to HTML session storage hence give user feature of running several sessions at one time.  ? Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements are lagging.  ? Implemented various Validation Controls for client-side validation and implemented custom validation controls with JSP validation controls.  ? Closely work with the QA Team to give user enhanced experience and reduce the number of key strokes.  ? Participated in meetings with the end-clients to develop custom UI Components that are cross browser compatible.  ? Having good experience in implementing the Node.js server side code to interact with Mongo DB to store and retrieve data by using the Mongoose drivers.  ? Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging and deploying.  ? Developed common CSS classes for the user interface using CSS and CSS3.  ? Reviewed customer feedback about the debugging issues, fixed bugs with HTML and JavaScript codes and worked on resolving browser compatibility issues.  ? Used SVN for Version Control.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, JSP, Bootstrap, Usability Testing, Agile methodology, ECMA Script, SVN. Skills Amazon web services, C++, Cucumber, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Ionic, Node.js, Redux, Json, Php, Python, Xml, Ajax, Css, Dhtml, Dreamweaver, Ui web, Web services, Eclipse Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming languages PL/SQL, C, C++, Java.  Operating System UNIX/ LINUX, Windows 7/8  UI Web Technologies  HTML/HTML5, XHTML, DHTML, DHTMLX, XML, AJAX, JSON, CSS/CSS3, UI Concept Modeling/Wire Framing, Grunt, web pack, Gulp, RWD, PHP, AJAX, DOJO, JSO, DOM, Kendo UI, YUI, Python    Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS3/CSS4, XHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, Backbone JS, Node JS, React JS, Redux, DOM, AJAX, JSON, XML, Bootstrap.  Cloud Technologies Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, Cloud Foundry.  AWS Services EC2, S3, VPC, RDS, Aurora, EBS, LAMBDA, Cloud Front etc.  Mobile Technologies  Android, IOS, Windows, Phone gap/ionic, Sencha, Senchatouch, Cordova, JQtouch, Iphone, Ipad, Mobile UI, Silver light, Action Script.    Frame Works Bootstrap, React JS, Node JS, Angular JS, Angular 2, Angular 4, JavaScript, Backbone JS, Ember, JQuery, Ext JS, D3 JS  IDE Tools WebStorm, Notepad++, Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Flash Professional + Action Script 2.0/3.0, Microsoft Publisher, Eclipse 4.3.  Databases SQL Server, PostgreSQL, Sybase, MySQL, Oracle, MongoDB, DB2  J2EE Technologies Servlets, Web services using SOAP and Restful, EJB, JSP.  JavaScript Libraries JQuery, Node.js, backbone.js, Require JS, Angular JS, Angular 2, Angular 4, React JS, Redux  Debugging Tools  JIRA, BugZilla, Firebug, Chrome Developer toolbar, IE Developer Toolbar, Safari Web inspector, Browser Stack, Browser Sync.    Testing Tools Selenium, HP UFT/QFT, Sahi, Telerik Test Studio, Karma, Jasmine, SoaTest, SWAT, Coded UI, Cucumber, Load UI  Backend Technologies Spring, JDBC, Hibernate, J2EE, Core Java, JPA.  IDE's and Tools