Sr UI Developer Sr UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr UI Developer - State street Corporation Long Branch, NJ • Dedicated and passionate software Developer Over 7 years of professional experience in designing and implementing User Interface (UI) Design, web applications, desktop and mobile applications by using various technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX and AngularJS.  • Extensive experience in developing web page quickly and effectively using jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Responsive Web Design, Bootstrap and experience in making web pages cross browser compatible.  • Built a production level app with features such as market trading, transaction staging and supervision, and manager-to-bank asset reconciliation. Stack was Python/Django for the frame work.  • Expert knowledge in XHTML, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Cross Browser.  • Good Experience with object-oriented programming language like C++ concepts like STL, Multithreading, Socket Programming, Data Structures and Algorithms.  • Experience in working with JavaScript frameworks like Node.js, AngularJS, Angular 2.  • Experience in TDD (Test Driven Development) and used Jasmine as testing framework and used Karma as a test runner.  • Expertise in version control tools like GIT, SVN to manage and control software development and project management tools like JIRA and Rally.  • Hands-on experience with various design patterns like MVC Architecture, Front Controller, Singleton, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Observer, Decorator, Session Facade, Factory Pattern and DAO pattern etc.  • Proficient in handling & administering web server's/application servers - WebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss and Apache Tomcat • Create, edit and maintain sites implementing responsive design &themes using front-end development frameworks including Bootstrap and media queries.  • Designed applications that execute on various browsers such as Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome, and Opera using various debugging tools like Firebugs/IE Developer Tools.  • Developed JSP pages for presentation layer (UI) using Struts 1.2 with client side validations using Struts Validator framework/ JavaScript.  • Strong Experience in design and development on various J2EE Application Servers like Apache Tomcat, JBoss and WebLogic.  • Developed common reusable component libraries (CRUD Scaffolding) to be reused in different projects throughout the company's IT team using GWT, spring data and JPA.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) architecture Spring MVC, Spring Annotations, Spring AOP, Spring Transactions, Hibernate, JDBC, and Tomcat Webapp server 7.x and Hibernate.  • Extensive knowledge of social networking integration via Facebook API, and Twitter REST API.  • Good knowledge in Styling and coding of CMS themes,email templates and practical knowledge of SEO in web design and development.  • Excellent interpersonal abilities, communication skills, time management and Team skills with an intention to work hard to meet project deadlines.  • Worked as a part of team in 24x7 production environment and provided on-call and day-to-day support. Work Experience Sr UI Developer State street Corporation - Boston, MA May 2018 to Present This is an internal application for the employees of Adobe. The Business wants to communicate with their employees through this web Application. The Employees will be logged in with their intranet credentials. The employees can check out the latest happenings, New Announcements from the business. They can also post their ideas for the better improvement of the business.    Responsibilities: • Responsible for design, configuration, development, validating & testing of Rewards Push Notification Application.  • Application Architected and developed using AngularJS, MVC framework.  • Worked on JavaScript and Browser Cache mechanism for storing and retrieving data for the website.  • Created client-side validation tool using technologies such as ExtJS and JavaScript.  • Used AJAX & JSON communication for accessing RESTful web services data payload.  • Created Responsive Designs (Mobile/Tablet/Desktop) using HTML5 & CSS3.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using DHTML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and extJs.  • Developed PHP based server-side API's using ZEND, Cake, Laravel, Symfony framework and MVC architecture.  • Used terminal for command line development inGit and Github.  • Participate in project planning sessions with business analysts and team members to analyze business requirements and translate business requirements into working software.  • Involved in requirements gathering, system design, analysis, implementation and setting up the development environment.  • Deployed the war files in Jboss 5.2 Server in Unix Environment.  • External customer portal is developed in annotation based using Spring MVC and Hibernate.  • Designed and Developed End to End customer self service module using annotation-based Spring MVC, Hibernate, JSP.  • Extensively used the spring framework implemented upon the MVC design pattern.  • Experienced in working in AGILE based development environment and participating in Scrum sessions.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using DHTML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery UI.  • Integrated with the back-end code (JSP) using JQUERY, JSON and AJAX to get and post the data to backend servers.    Environment: JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, Bootstrap Js, extJs, JSON, Ajax, DHTML, XML, Eclipse, Sublime Text, JSLint, JSHint, Firebug, AngularJS, Team City, PHP, Maven, Git, Github, SVN. UI Developer CVS Pharmacy - Woonsocket, RI July 2017 to May 2018 CVS Pharmacy is a subsidiary of the American retail and health care company CVS Health, headquartered in Woonsocket, Rhode Island. The project was made to standardize the existing delivery service offering (for home and hospital delivery) which provides value for customers and serves as a differentiator in the market.    Responsibilities: • Attended Daily standup meetings (Scrum), Estimation meetings and Requirement review meetings to analyze requirements for project.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • CSS styles were developed to preserve the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  • Developed the Login, Policy and Claims Screens for customers using AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.  • Used Object Oriented Programming concepts to develop UI components that could be reused across the Web Application.  • Developed responsive applications using Bootstrap which allowed the same application to be optimized for both mobile and desktop resolutions.  • Involved designing in web pages using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, React.js, Redux, Flux, Mongo DB.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept.  • Responsible for React UI and architecture. Building components library, including Tree, Slide-View, and Table Grid.  • Implemented stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Used React-Autocomplete for creating google maps location search on the webpage.  • Used Web socket for publish services for continuous geo-location information updates to Google Maps.  • Built applications using React.JS which allowed us to render pages on both the client and server using the same codebase.  • Developed various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux library.  • Using React JS to implement rich functions in various pages: form validation, crud, grid list, search, sort, pagination, multi-selection, tags-input, advanced/custom directives, authentication, unit tests, etc.  • Experience in RESTful web services to integrate between Server side to Client Side.  • Worked with JASMINE unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code.  • Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  • Handled cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on both Windows.    Environment: React.JS, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, JSON, Ajax, jQuery, Node.JS, D3.JS, MongoDB, Karma, Jasmine, CRUD, Redux, Agile, Scrum, React-Router, Flux, Bootstrap, Spring MVC, Spring Framework, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Restful, SQL, Gulp, Firebug, Fiddler UI Developer Office Depot - Boca Raton, FL September 2016 to July 2017 Description: Office Depot is a large business organization which has branches all over United States and United Kingdom. I have developed the Java scripts for automation of Oracle Hyperion Data Relationship Management (DRM) the very large data to be compared in the database between servers and then will be changed, transferred or deleted if necessary according to the users given Html data on the webpage.    Responsibilities: • Extensive Experience with JavaScript MVC framework AngularJS and familiar with other frameworks/libraries such as Backbone.js, Node.js, Underscore.js.  • Experience with Advanced JavaScript (including prototype-based inheritance, AJAX, JSON).  • Strong working experience with third party web services APIs and Web Services using AJAX and JQuery.  • Strong knowledge of building and architecting Single Page Applications (SPAs) using various JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS, Node.js and Bootstrap.  • Expert in developing enterprise-level JAVA applications utilizing XML, JSON, JSONP, RESTful-based web services, JavaScript, HTML, AngularJS and a Modern UI framework such as Bootstrap CSS • Expertise in Client Side designing and validations using HTML, DHTML and Java Script.  • Strong Web development skills with web 2.0 framework, JSP & MVC, DHTML, table less XHTML and good knowledge of W3C standards • Expert in implementing Responsive Web Design (RWD) using CSS3 media queries and Bootstrap.  • Strong experience with Search Engine Optimization (SEO) principles, Cross Browser Compatibility issues, graphic optimization for the web and capable of handling Responsiveness.  • Experience applying the latest development approaches including MVC framework in the browser, event-driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON and XML.  • Experience in developing ANT scripts and used MAVEN tool to build and deploy J2EE Applications.  • Hands on experience with tools like SVN, CVS, GIT-Hub, Clear Case and Clear Quest for Version controlling and error reporting.  • Excellent experience in Restful Web services and Big Web service development and consumption using (JAX-RS and JAX-WS).  • Worked on MySQL Database with expertise in online transaction processing (OLTP) and online analytical processing (OLAP) on multi-user systems involving large databases for clients.  • Created new tables and their structure. Queries were written in Oracle 11g using TOAD and SQL developer.  • Developed a SQL Server Database, coupled with an Access Data Project front end, which would utilize GPS data available from fleet tracking companies in conjunction with federal tax regulations established for transportaion workers, to maximize travel deductions for long haul truckers. Additionaly, various "proof of concept" SSIS packages were written, as well as a skeleton for a larger package which was to be used for ETL to a SQL Server back end for further processing.  • Integrate Oracle Scheduler with CC&B cluster mode batch using Coherence.  • Environment: CC&B, Oracle Coherence.  • Modelled MESI snooping cache coherence protocol backend controller in C • Setup and configure Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents, apache rewrite rules for routing the calls to CQ5.  • Designed WSDL and exposed SOAP based web services for chase subsystems.  • Expertise in configuring a domain, deploying applications, configuring data sources, logging and web subsystems in JBOSS and EAP.  • Create and maintain Amazon EC2 instance that supports the companies Redmine project management site and Mercurial CM. Jr. Software Engineer ( Web Developer) Janya Technologies - IN May 2013 to August 2016 Environment: JQuery, AJAX, DOJO, Sencha ExtJS, Spring, IBatis, Struts & JSF, EJB, MYSQL, Toad, SQL Server, DB2, coherence, APACHE AXIS2, WSDL, Netbeans, Jboss, Mercurial, ClearCase, Selenium, Water fall model, UML, JSP & SERVLET, ANT, Xml, ITEXT, EMC Documentum, GWT (Google Web Toolkit), JIRA, SWING, Cognos, Jasper report.    Janya Technologies, India May 2013 - August 2016  Jr. Software Engineer ( Web Developer)    Responsibilities: • Developed all the UI pages using HTML, XUL, DHTML, XSL/XSLT, XHTML, DOM, CSS, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, WinJS, Adobe Creative suite.  • Created XHTML Pages with CSS and the Box Model.  • Integrated the Java code (API) in JSP Pages.  • Used C++ to create web applications including vectors, lists, maps and algorithms.  • Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the applications.  • Used jQuery Events to manipulate the elements depends on the user interactions (like .ready (), hover (), bind (), click (), keypress () .)JJ • Used jQuery plugins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, UserInterface, and Forms.  • Developed Date Time Picker using Object Oriented JavaScript extensively.  • Designed Pdf, Excel and Print previews for all the reports in the application using HTML, JavaScript and SQL Stored Procedure.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Involved in developing XUL, HTML, and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side within the forms.  • Contact with thedifferent customer for their requirements and modified code as the customer needs.  • Involved in writing and modifying Procedure, Queries, Views and Triggers and calling them from JavaScript using the Tempnet Framework.  • Used MS Office for external data via connection-specifications saved in office data connections ( .Odc ) files.  • Successfully executed the entire test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Dreamweaver CS5, C++, AJAX, Adobe Creative suite, JSON, ECLIPSE, Selenium, MS Office and SVN. Junior Software Engineer Magnafic Pvt. Ltd., Hyd August 2011 to May 2013 Responsibilities:- • Involved in development, design and implementation of front-end part widget based application.  • Developed Page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  • Developed web presentation layer using HTML and CSS per internal standards and guidelines.  • Created a robust and user friendly Call Center Applications based on client requirements.  • Development the whole application module using technologies such as JavaScript, jQuery and more.  • Wrote a combination of jQuery plugins, as well as completely custom JavaScript to build a bleeding-edge, AJAX-driven user interface.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  • Designed the table less web applications using CSS and with the help of and tags as per W3C standards.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML, GIT, Windows. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (7 years), HTML (6 years), JavaScript (7 years), JQuery (7 years), JSON (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Technologies: HTML, HTML5, CSS2, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Typescript, DOM, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, DHTML, XHTML, PHP, Java, Cordova, SASS, LESS, WebAPI, SOAP, REST, ECMAScript 5, ECMAScript 6, Angular 4, and React and Redux, MEAN Stack  Programming Languages C++, Java, Python, PHP, JavaScript, UNIX shell programming, Objective C  Java Script Framework Angular 1.X, Angular 2, Backbone.JS, Node.JS, Express.JS, React JS  Web Server HTTP Web Server, Apache Tomcat.  Databases MongoDB, MySQL, SQL Server, MS-Access, Oracle.  Tools & IDE: Eclipse IDE, Dreamweaver, Notepad++, Sublime Text Editor, Web Storm, Babel, NetBeans, GitHub, Git Bash, Microsoft Office, NPM, Fiddler, WebPack, Yeoman  Debugging tools Firebug, Chrome Developer toolbar, IE Developer Toolbar  Version Control Tools: Git, SVN  Operating Systems Windows variants, Mac OS variants, Unix, Linux  Reporting Tools SSRS, Crystal Reports  Methodologies Agile-SCRUM, Waterfall  Cloud Computing Platform Microsoft Azure  Other WordPress, CMS, SAP, SDLC, UML Diagram, .net, TCP/IP, UDP, HTTP