Java Developer Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - United Parcel Service Cockeysville, MD • 6.5 years of experience on Web & Client-Server application development and design using Object Oriented Programming, Java/J2EE technologies.  • Hands on expertise in designing, developing and deploying applications using J2EE technologies including JSP, Servlets.  • Strong knowledge in Object Relation mapping using Hibernate.  • Developed user interfaces using Swing, JSP, JSF, PL/SQL, JDBC, XML, HTML5 and CSS3, Java Script, JQuery.  • Experienced in entire system life cycle (SDLC) including Analysis, Design, Programming, Building, Testing, Debugging, Maintenance and Enhancements of multi-tier, database driven J2EE applications.  • Generate UI mockups from paper-and-pencil concepts to high-fidelity prototypes that convey the interaction model using HTML5, CSS and AngularJS.  • Worked on Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) that include Session Beans, Message Driven Beans (MDB) and Entity Beans  • Experience on Core java technology which includes Multithreading, JDBC, RMI, network programming.  • Experience in using Struts 2.x, spring and Hibernate 3.x framework (MVC) for various Web based application development.  • Comprehensive experience in designing and developing applications using UML.  • Good knowledge of EJB Session beans with JNDI mapped naming and JMS message-driven beans.  • Experience with testing frameworks like Junit, Mockito, Power Mock, JMock.  • Extensive experience with Eclipse. Also worked on NetBeans, IntelliJ IDEs.  • Experienced in the functional usage and deployment of applications in JBoss, WebLogic, WebSphere and Apache Tomcat Server.  • Good knowledge of database connectivity (JDBC) for databases like Oracle, DB2, SQL Server, MySQL.  • Involved in test driven development using JUnit and Struts Test Case.  • Proficient in using XML Suite of Technologies (XML, XSL, XSLT, DTD, XML Schema, SAX, DOM).  • Excellent analytical capabilities and good communication skills. Ability to quickly adapt to new environments and learn new technologies. Work Experience Java Developer United Parcel Service - Timonium, MD June 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  Responsibilities:  • Working as a Java developer in Internet Membership Services for United Parcel Services in Timonium Maryland campus.  • Design, develop, test and implement web-based applications to support business requirements.  • Follow approved life cycle methodologies working as part of a team.  • Create and maintain design documents.  • Perform program coding and develop unit and functional tests for all code written.  • Work with technical lead to develop Java applications.  • Develop and maintain web applications using Java, XML, XSL, XHTML, JSP and JavaScript, JSON using code that is object-oriented, high performing and thread safe.  • Create user information solutions by developing, implementing, and maintaining Java based components and interfaces.  • Designed REST APIs that allow sophisticated, effective and low-cost application integration.  • Used Docker for container management.  • Experience with NOSQL Database such as Couch base. Data modelling, establishing connection with Couch base and providing API layer to integrate with to create, update, read, and delete documents from database.  • Integrating with MQ's and send automated messages based on the use case.  • Integrated with non-relational databases like Couch base and exposed Restful services for clients to integrate with.  • Implemented server-side logic to create HMAC security system.  • Exposed API's using Spring boot and Jersey frameworks supporting both XML and JSON formats.  • Changed back end monolithic struts application to micro services.  • Used different micro services design patterns (aggregator, chain), Spring cloud API Gateway.  • Executing Python scripts to kick off jobs. Setup server configuration using python scripts.  • Participate in code reviews.  • Work with small, cross-functional teams including front-end developers, quality assurance specialists, product managers and other business unit.  • Strong understanding of HTTP protocols.  • Implemented swagger for documentation of Services.  • Developed applications using Spring boot, Spring batch and performance tested applications through JMETER.  • Used ANT and Maven as build-tool for building applications.  • Used Nexus and Jenkins for build and deployments.  • Introduced Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery processes to Autodesk IT department.  • Created a DevOps environment using Team Foundation Server. This included input into branching and merging strategies.  • Used popular Node.js frameworks like Express and Loop back to mock a Restful API.  • Develop and deliver presentations on JavaScript, Node.js, loopback and Strong Loop.  • Worked on AWS cloud services like EC2, S3, RDS, ELB, and EBS for installing, configuring and auto scaling.  • Configured and managed AWS Glacier, to move old data to archives based on retention policy of databases/ applications.  • Involved in writing java API for Amazon Lambda to manage some of the AWS services. Experienced in in setting up of AWS RDS and DB instances.  • Created Buckets in AWS and stored files. Enabled Versioning and security for files stored.  • Installed SONAR on Jenkins server and configure with the build process for the code analysis process for better code quality and code metrics, and rapid feedback for development teams and managers.  • Experience in implementing Horizontal Pod Autoscaler on Kubernetes.  • Maintain documentation for the Installation, Implementation, deployments & Maintenance of Kubernetes cluster and its components.  • Worked on Encrypting AWS S3 storage Objects.  • Configured S3 to host static Web content, Elastic Load Balancers with EC2Autoscaling groups and deployed Cloud Stack using AWS OpsWorks.  • Coordinated with DevOps team for maintaining application.  • Very comfortable working with different version control system especially with CVS, SVN and TFS-Git.  Environment: Java/J2EE, SOAP, Restful, API gateways, Hibernate, EJB, Unix, Linux, DB2, Couch Base DB, SQL, NoSQL, Jersey, JAXB, XML, JSON, XSD, Web logic 12.1, Web logic 12.2, Tomcat 8, Swagger, Spring boot, Spring batch, JMOCK, Jenkins, ANT, Maven, Shell Scripting, Junit testing, Jmeter testing, Docker, DevOps, Amazon S3, Amazon Cloud Watch, AWS Lambda, Web Services, Docker, Node JS. Java Developer QVC - West Chester, PA April 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked as a Java developer in marketing optimization project for QVC Inc.  • Involved in requirements gathering, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Integrated Spring and Mybatis to connect to DB2 using configuration files.  • Designed and implemented REST Web Services to provide the interface to various clients running on both java and non-java application.  • Used Jackson API to parse huge JSON data and convert it into record store objects.  • Used JSP and JQuery to create user interfaces to test and monitor the application.  • Participated in unit and functional testing using Junit, Mockito and powermock.  • Extensively used Eh cache to store the response to disk. User can configure the cache settings through the interface.  • Develop Java code with Spring, Restful Web services, Spring JMS for MQ and Mybatis framework.  • Involved in documenting the web service functionalities like preparing flow diagrams, context diagrams and supported schema format for the JSON.  • Used SVN for version control and Log4j for logging.  • Used Maven to build the application and deploy it to Tomcat Web server.  • Used JAXB to convert XML to java objects and Java Objects to XML.  • Used SPRING batch process to generate reports for the credit team to count the customers.  • Used Visual build pro v7 and Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Developed the application using Spring MVC Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.  • Used Spring XD and Spring Cloud Data flow for Streaming different social sites like AdParlour, Facebook and copy the payload to Sql server.  • Bug fixing and resolving critical issues in different environments (UAT/ STAGGING) by monitoring the error logs.    Environment: Java/J2EE , Spring, Spring XD, Spring Cloud Data Flow, AngularJS, MyBatis, Java script, IBM MQ,MQ Visual edit, Oracle SQL Developer, SQL Server, DB2, AQT, Linux, Unix, Shell scripting, JUnit, PowerMock, JSP, Servlets, HTML5, Maven, CSS, Web Sphere, Tomcat, XPath, Jenkins. Java Developer JPMC - Newark, DE June 2014 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked as a Full Stack Java developer in Mortgage Banking for JP Morgan Chase.  • Worked on complete life cycle, design, development and testing using OOA and OOD using scrum agile methodology.  • The Application was designed and developed with Spring MVC and Hibernate as the ORM.  • Used JSP, HTML, Swing and CSS for content layout and presentation.  • Implemented business logic using Session Beans, Servlets and stored procedures.  • Created the web application using MVC Struts framework.  • Designed developed and maintained the data layer using Hibernate and performed configuration of Struts, Application Framework.  • Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML and DHTML embedded in JSP.  • Worked on design and development of the Customer Relations Module.  • Implemented test classes using junit and mockito for web socket connection pool manager and web socket client.  • Deployed and maintained the application in WebLogic server.  • Designed and developed batch jobs using Spring-Batch architecture.  • Practices core java design patterns like Abstract factory, Factory, Singleton and Façade for assuring quality coding and development of the application.  • Sequence, class and database diagrams are made using the UML design tool.  • Build use cases components; create design documents with different UML diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Analyzing and design requirements provided by business users.  • Writing design specification and develop test cases.  • Coordinating with I-POS backend, data setup and testing teams.  • Developed user interfaces using Swing, JSP, JSF, HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON.  • Implemented using various J2EE design patterns such as Session Façade, Business Delegate, Value Object, Data Access Object, etc.  • Used SVN as version control system for the source code and project documents.  • Developed applications using struts. Developed Action classes, Action forms, JSP and struts-config.xml, web.xml configuration files.    Environment: Core Java, Struts, Hibernate, Spring, EJB, MySQL, Eclipse, SVN, JAXB, REST, PL/SQL, SOAP, JQuery, JSON, Java Script, AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, JSF, JSP, Java Swing, Web Services, XPath, WAS 7, Oracle SQL Developer, SOAPUI Testing, JUNIT Testing, Mockito, OAM, OIM, Jenkins. Web Designer Indiana State University, Recycle Centre April 2013 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop or update department websites following ISU's web guidelines.  • Develop scripts, forms, or web applications. Provide individual support for SharePoint Designer as needed.  • Performs other duties as assigned. Java/J2EE Developer YOG info tech pvt ltd January 2012 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the preparation of prototype and demos of the project and presented before the client to check that it meets their requirements.  • Used methodology and participated in SCRUM meetings.  • Front-end was designed by using HTML5, MySQL, JavaScript, CSS, and JSP.  • Developed JavaScript functions for client-side validations.  • Worked with Apache Tomcat Web Server.  • Wrote SQL queries to pull some information from the Backend.  • Designed and developed Servlets and JSP and connected to existing MySQL database using JDBC.    Environment: Eclipse, Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlet, MySQL, HTML5, Hibernate, WebLogic Application server, Apache tomcat, Oracle 11g, HTML, Java Script, CSS, JDBC Education Master of Sciences in Sciences Indiana State University January 2013 to May 2014 Bachelor of Technologies Jawaharlal Nehru Technology University (JNTU) September 2008 to May 2012 Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jaxb, Jboss, Jms, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Application server, Git, Javascript, Json, Orm, Svn Additional Information SKILL SET:    Languages Java, J2EE, SQL  Technologies JDBC, JSP, Junit, JSF, Servlets, JavaScript, EJB, JMS, Java Beans  Frameworks Struts 1, Struts 2, Spring, Spring MVC, Spring batch, Spring boot, PL/SQL.  ORM Technology Hibernate, My-Batis.  Mark Up languages HTML5, CSS3, XML, XSLT, XPath, DHTML, Java Script, JQuery, NodeJS, JSON.  Web Services Apache AXIS, SOAP, REST XML, JAXB, Jersey, Spring rest, JSON, Swagger.  Databases Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, DB2, Couchbase.  Web/Application Server Web logic, JBOSS, Tomcat, IBM WebSphere  Bug tracking Tools IBM ClearQuest, Find Bugs, Sonar cubed  IDE Eclipse, RSA, Net beans  Versioning Tools CVS, SVN, IBM Clear case, TFS, GIT