Full Stack Web Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer Virginia, MN Senior Full Stack Developer that has worked with 25+ organizations from around the world, developing websites and web applications. I spend my days with my hands in many different areas of web development from back end programming (PHP, Django/Python, Ruby on Rails) to front end engineering (HTML, CSS, and React/Javascript), Work Experience Full Stack Web Developer Self-Employed Present - Involved in User Sessions, gathering requirements and  developing web application using Agile methodology.  - Worked on advanced UI design and development using  AngularJs, NodeJs, HTML5 and CSS.  - Extensively used Bootstrap for creating web pages.  - Used JSP, JavaScript, CSS, Bootstrap, AngularJS to create  interactive user interface.  - Developed dynamic UI using Angular JS. Created  AngularJS controllers, services and used them to filters  for filter functionality in search box and integrator  functionalities.  - Developed REST architecture based web services to  facilitate communication between client and servers.  - Built a real-time mouse/click user analytics web service  with Node.js, Expressjs. Called REST web services  through AngularJS services to get JSON Object  and modified the response object.  - Scalable single-page web pattern using EmberJS in  MVVM pattern design. WordPress Developer Naturefootage - Remote February 2015 to August 2017 • Worked on APIs integration and Custom PHP.  • Interacted with Business Analysts to understand the scope of the project and technical requirements.  • Integrate data from various back-end services and databases.  • Create and maintain software documentation.  • Create website layout/user interface by using HTML/CSS and be responsible for maintaining, expanding, and scaling the site.  • Determine the cache strategies for certain HTTP request.  • Implement authentication session to certain routes.  • Create authentication strategies and build a role based accessing system.  • Developed a web socket Based online chat plugin to assist our customer service.  • Prepared various project related documents such as test cases and coding standards and guidelines.  • Used Git as a version control software. Senior Web Developer HRVST - Remote March 2012 to January 2015 • Developed WordPress ecosystem, built WordPress templates, including OOP PHP techniques,and modifying themes with child themes.  • Worked on standards-compliant HTML5 & CSS3 and responsive design techniques.  • Worked on APIs integration.  • Optimized website for increased opt-ins, better search rankings, and user engagement and retention.  • Translated design mockups into fully-functioning websites and applied responsive Web Developer February 2010 to February 2012 • Creating Custom WordPress theme.  • Plugin Development  • Custom API integrations Education Bsc (Hons) in many different areas of web development DeVry University 2004 to 2008 Skills WordPress (6 years), WordPress Theme Development (5 years), WordPress Plugin Development (4 years), API's (4 years), Angular (3 years), Node.js (2 years), Ajax (5 years), React (2 years), Adobe Photoshop (3 years), Illustrator (3 years), Php (7 years), Php Frameworks (5 years), Laravel (4 years), PSD to WordPress (4 years), Bootstrap (4 years), Jquery, Javascript, Java Certifications/Licenses Certified Scrum Master Present Scrum Alliance