Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer - Capgemini Silver Spring, MD Work Experience Software Engineer Capgemini - Manhattan, NY October 2018 to Present Used Angular to build a portal application for State Auto Insurance.  ? Built API's to mock interaction with State Auto database.  ? Worked extensively on Angular 5/ Typescript SPA domains.  ? Extensive experience working under Agile methodologies environment (scrum, Kanban).  ? Experience with various IDE's such as Visual Studio Code, Web Strom, Sublime and Notepad++.  ? Experience in working on MAC, Windows, and Linux - Ubuntu operating systems.  ? Good amount of work done on Reactive forms or Web Forms 2.0 in Angular 2 and their Validations.  ? Hands on Experience on Angular CLI (Command line Interface).  ? Traveled to Columbus weekly for team meetings.  ? Developed expertise in using React JS components, Styled components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux. Software Engineer Booz Allen Hamilton - Herndon, VA May 2017 to August 2018 Worked on fraud detection applications for various Canadian Financial Institutions like Bank of Montreal, Cambridge Payments, TD Ameritrade.  ? Used AngularJS and ChartsJS to display data pulled from a database using ElasticSearch.  ? Migrated sections of an AngularJS application to Angular 4.  ? Completed code refactoring and cut 10,000 lines of code.  ? Assisted with CAS/LDAP integration.  ? Used Apache Tomcat, Maven to deploy CAS server.  ? Created initial GUI prototypes given business requirements.  ? Designed and deployed widgets using Angular to assist anti-money laundering analyst.  ? Worked with AWS to migrate and update cloud infrastructure for the Cambridge Payments.  ? Gained deep understanding of Chef and utilized it to automate.  ? Gained experience working with Subversion and Git.  ? Assisted teams using outdated content management practices by migrating to Subversion.  ? Gained experience with Jenkins 2.  ? Used Selenium to monitor automated tests.  ? Learned Groovy and utilized the programming language to write scripts that were deployed using Jenkins. Software Developer Vertical Apps - Arlington, VA October 2015 to May 2017 Designed responsive, visually appealing and feature rich web application features, working from a variety of inputs, including visual comps or prototypes, wireframes, or written requirements in Jira.  ? Used Angular, Java, HTML5, and jQuery to create beautiful applications.  ? Applied best practices for user experience according to government style sheet requirements.  ? Worked in an agile development environment.  ? Gained experience with AJAX-based JSON web services.  ? Developed and tested across multiple browsers, platforms, and devices using Browserstack and Saucelabs.  ? Gained experience with Thymeleaf, JSON, SQL, and Mongo DB.  ? Gained experience in UI/UX design (e.g. wireframing, prototyping).  ? Performed 508 user accessibility tests on applications to ensure they were 508 compliant.  ? Gained experience with Jmeter while running performance tests.  ? Gained experience working with Subversion and Git.  ? Gained basic understanding of using Chef.  ? Utilized SonarQube to monitor test coverage. Junior Web Developer Intern ScooperMedia - Bethesda, MD December 2014 to August 2015 Utilized JavaScript, HTML, and CSS to create online applications.  ? Gained experience using Bootstrap, Angular and jQuery.  ? Worked with departmental representatives to improve website appearance.  ? Developed and tested across multiple browsers, platforms, and devices.  ? Gained experience with Ember, SQL, and utilized Git.  ? Learned basics of programming using Python.  ? Gained experience converting design comps created in Photoshop into functional websites. Project Manager Cision - Beltsville, MD January 2014 to December 2014 Compiled daily reports for BMW, VHA, and MoneyGram.  ? Responsible for monitoring and training a team of five individuals who assisted with reports.  ? Worked with departmental representatives to improve website appearance.  ? Assisted in maintaining the company's national media database.  ? Provided administrative and technical support to Supervisor.  ? Collaborated with managing the national media database. Responsible for collecting information and documentation required for the media publishing process. Planned, setup, and reviewed through weekly meetings with clients. Web Development Assistant University of Maryland - Largo, MD July 2013 to January 2014 Worked on a 6-month contract assisting UMUC'S Information Technology department in maintaining databases using HTML and CSS.  ? Worked with an organized team of Computer Engineers that completed the assignment 3 months ahead of schedule.  ? Helped to maintain websites and courses, with data entry, HTML, CSS, compliance, mail processing, answering phones, and scanning.  ? Reviewed, exported, and organized content from existing web applications according to instructions and training provided.  ? Recording and tracking progress of the group assignments. Education Bachelors of Arts in Arts and Humanities The University of Maryland, College Park - College Park, MD 2011 Additional Information Technical Proficiency: Java, Angular, JavaScript, HTML5, Microsoft Office, Python