Marketing Specialist Marketing Specialist Sales Associate - US Pride Furniture San Gabriel, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Marketing Specialist Burbank Shipping Center - Burbank, CA October 2018 to Present Oversee and maintain the company website, public site content,Google Adwords, Facebook Campus, ,email marketing and eBay sales. Details are as following:     • Generation of organic traffic through keyword research, copy writing, and content optimization.  • Creating and Monitoring Google Adwords campaigns.  • Designed online banners, microsites, and email newsletter creative to drive eCommerce sales  • Created and edited all search engine optimized web content.  • Designed alternate landing pages for Google landing page.  • Analyzed visitor data and revenue sources extensively with Google Analytics  • Created & managed multiple search, display, affiliate, & retargeting campaigns on Google AdWords, Bing Ads, Facebook Ads,Taboola, & other ad networks Web Master/E-commerce Specialist US Pride Furniture - Industry, CA January 2017 to August 2018 ? Develop, maintain, update, and optimize the company website  ? Manage Amazon Seller, Amazon Vendor ,and Overstock store  ? Developing and Designing Marketing Materials   ? Website: www.uspridefurniture.com Web Developer/Programmer JohnHart Real Estate - Glendale, CA November 2011 to August 2015 Primarily create and maintain the company’s websites using web technologies , including PHP 5, JQuery, Java Scripts,Google API, Bootstrap. Working on both the front and back ends of website, integrating the website with MySQL database , JQuery and API. Other duties, including weekly newsletter, Google & Facebook landing page , SEO and so on.  Website : www.johnhartrealestate.com Web Intern Dburns Design - Santa Monica, CA May 2007 to November 2007 Designing web pages ,making html pages, researching web technologies and data entries. Education B.S. in Electrical California State University - Los Angeles, CA September 2004 to May 2008 B.S. in Chemical Engineering Tsing Hua University August 1997 to May 2001 Skills PHP,MySQL, JavaScript, AJAX, XML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, Bootstrap (Responsive Design), Jquery, MVC (5 years), Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe InDesign (4 years), WordPress , Opencart (5 years), MailChimp Newsletter Campaign (3 years), Amazon, eBay, Overstock (2 years), Wordpress, Javascript, PHP, jQuery, MySQL, Front End, HTML5, Bootstrap