Sr. iOS developer Sr. iOS <span class="hl">developer</span> Sr. iOS developer - CVS Scottsdale, AZ • Over 8+ years of experience in the area of software development for mobiles and web, which includes understanding requirement specification, working on software design, coding, testing and maintenance.  • 4+ years of experience in iPhone/iPad (iOS, Xcode) application development using objective-C, Swift, Cocoa Touch on iOS platform, frameworks and customizing it as per requirements.  • Experience in unit testing with XCTest and UI Automation Testing with XCUI Testing Framework, executing the test case definitions, product functionalities and features.  • Experience of iPhone mobile application development, testing on device and simulator using X-code with XIBs and Storyboards in Objective C.  • Experience in RESTful/ SOAP web services and API's.  • Involved in various parse level application and well aware of parsing JSON (using AFNetworking and Alamo fire) formatted services for iPhone and iPad.  • Experience on Core Data, SQLite Code in objective C and swift.  • Having working experience on SDK development in iOS, efficient in using Interface Builder in building the Applications.  • Experience in Tacking Mobile app analytics using Enlighten tag management and Adobe experience cloud.  • Experience in Mobile Application Development Frameworks, Design Guidelines, design patterns.  • Experienced in using version control like GitHub, SVN, Source Tree and proficiency with memory management - Automatic Reference Counting (ARC).  • Experience on notifications including Apple Push Notifications (APNS)- badges, alert messages, integrating social networking API's like Facebook, Twitter into the application.  • Developed apps using various iOS design patterns MVC, MVP, and MVVM.  • Experience in backend database technologies like SQL, embedded database SQLite.  • Worked in Scrum agile methodology, exposure on Test Driven Development with pair programing approach.  • Knowledge in developing Enterprise level Mobile Applications includes provisioning and publishing applications in App Store satisfying Apple publishing procedures and App review process. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. iOS developer CVS October 2018 to Present CVS-Photo Bring home special moments the easy and expert way by ordering prints and photo enlargements online at CVS and personalized photo cards from the vast selection of designs available at CVS. CVS Photo is the solution for decorating your home or office, shop online to transform your most-loved photos into ready-to-display art in the form of canvas prints, wall panels, metal prints, and more. Ordering prints online or you have a photo-product project, CVS makes it easy to put your favorite pictures to the mix you can add your own photos easily from your device, CVS account and Facebook. CVS Photo has the selection of high-quality prints and products to make them a reality.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Agile Methodology for development and daily standup call with product team, sprint planning and review meetings. Involved in Web Services implementation.  • Designing and developing iPhone, iPad applications using Xcode, Objective-C, Cocoa Touch, iOS SDK, JSON.  • Designed the complete flow for the application with customized UI components and controllers.  • JSON Web Services converted to existing Soap Services Working Knowledge on libraries specific to SWIFT and implemented bridging header from objective-c to SWIFT.  • Built iOS Storyboards, .xib files, creating custom views and segues between different views, established IBOutlet, IBActions in the storyboard.  • Worked on Web Service calls, XML and JSON parsing included in the project.  • Worked closely within a cross functional team of testers and developers.  • Experience in GitLab enterprise using source tree and SVN Repository using cornerstone.  • Implemented Unit Testing using XCTest and UI Automation testing using XCUITest frameworks.  • Participated in application testing, logged in errors/bugs and fixed them thereby contributing for application enhancement.  • Implemented Mobile Analytics using Adobe experience cloud.  • Code refactoring, Objective C to swift with MVC architecture.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement Gathering, Design and Analysis and code development.    Environment: Swift 4.2, Objective C, Cocoa Touch, Xcode 10, Xcode 9.3, REST API's, iPhone SDK, MAC OS X, Interface Builder, iPhone Simulator. Sr. iOS developer The Home Depot - Irving, TX October 2017 to September 2018 Enhanced shopping comfort from your mobile device with millions of home improved appliances ranging from sophisticated remodeling ideas to basic needs with search, browse and shop with integrated amazing faster shopping experience through voice and image search where you can speak or upload image or scan barcode for item search. Free shipping opportunity by pick up in the store option or ship to store by placing order in the app subsequently picking them in a Home Depot location and also can ship the item to the store if not available.  Smooth In-Store experience by providing map layout and integrated GPS navigation where you can see the store layout and choose the product from the aisle location or show you the products available in the store based on your GPS location. You can also find the nearest store locations through location finder with timings and other additional information.  In addition, the Gift card option helps in surprising your dear ones where you can instantly send the gift card into someone's inbox directly through the app. Plus iPhone users can even import the eGift card into passbook.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Agile Methodology for development and daily standup call with product team, sprint planning and review meetings. Involved in Web Services implementation.  • Experience in GitHub enterprise using source tree and GitHub desktop.  • Implemented Unit Testing using XCTestand UI Automation testing using XCUITest frameworks.  • Implemented Store locations by Core Location and Mapkit Framework.  • Participated in application testing, logged in errors/bugs and fixed them thereby contributing for application enhancement.  • Implemented Mobile Analytics using Adobe experience cloud.  • Used Alamo fire for Networking calls and Core Data as Database for storing all the JSON data.  • Code refactoring, Objective C to swift with MVVM architecture.  • Implemented browsing paint and stain colors with color palettes.  • Involved in Test Driven Development (TDD) includes pair programming.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement Gathering, Design and Analysis and code development.    Environment: Swift 3, 4, Objective C, Cocoa Touch, Xcode 8 ,9.0 - 9.3, REST API's, iPhone SDK, MAC OS X, Interface Builder, iPhone Simulator. iOS Developer Express Scripts, St, Louis, MO August 2015 to September 2017 The Express scripts is a pharmacy company providing medicines for the patients and seniors. Express Scripts mobile app is user has to register and can save his medical history details, prescriptions, drugs, request for home delivery with tracking options and get notification about the new drug releases and availability of the medicines. User can scan drugs using the barcode option and also users can know about doctors and his track record and many options like low cost alternative drug and can order medicines using his member id without prescriptions.    Responsibilities:  • Worked extensively with Objective-C, Xcode and JSON for the application at hand.  • For the application developer test and fixed bugs using Instruments and Third-party Analytics Tools.  • Developed customized search bar controller to search for items and filtered results based on user preferences  • Used Zbarcode for search products using barcode and QR Codes, Map Kit Foundation, AVFoundation.  • Developing the app in test driven development writing test cases, using XCTest and implementing the code.  • Utilized UITapGestureRecognizer for interacting with user inputs and performed testing using XCTest.  • Created Custom UIViews, custom Table Views, and custom UITableViewCell for user interface.  • Experience in data storage and retrieval using Plist, SQLite, and core data at ease to improve memory overhead of the app and increase responsiveness.  • Implemented custom UITabBarController and UINavigationController for easy navigation of the app.  • Utilized UIKit, Map Kit and Core location to for user for finding nearest store locations based on his current location.  • Created custom annotations and annotation views on maps.  • RESTful web services using AFNetworking for JSON parsing.  • Created a flow and designed interfaces and views on the storyboards.  • Managing and updating SVN repositories including iOS.    Environment: IOS 7.0 and 6.0 (iPad SDK), Mac OS 4. X, Swift 2, Objective - C, Xcode 4.6, 5,6,7,XCTest Framework, Cocoa Touch, Cocoa framework, Adobe CS5 Suite (Photoshop, Dreamweaver), Map Kit, Core Location, and AV Foundation. iOS Developer Global InfoTech April 2013 to June 2015 Micro Key Solutions' Tech Pro app allows alarm technicians and installers to receive and manage their service tickets from their smartphone. This application will reduce drive time and labor hours, while greatly increasing the overall efficiency of your service department.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in product architecture and design with architect team.  • Designed the home screen of the application where the user can choose the type of the module to be populated.  • Implemented the scroll functionality by using UIScrollView on all screens of the app.  • Developed components like infinite scrolling section for sliding tableview.  • Created table view controllers in the application and segue ways from different View controllers.  • Created custom Table View Cells to accommodate the client's design of a particular cell.  • Worked with navigation controllers, Navigation bars and Tab bars.  • Tested applications on iPhone simulator and iPhone device.  • Used GCD (Grand Central Dispatch) - NSOperationQueues for implementing complex multi-threading features background syncing etc.  • Implemented Auto-layout concept for the entire Storyboard and dynamically adjusted the height of the collection View based on the content.  • Coordinated with technical staff in the configuration of iTunes AppStore.  • Performed the quality assurance of the application by reporting the issues to the development team.  • Code reviews for team members.    Environment: Objective C, Cocoa Touch, XCODE, REST API's, iPhone SDK, MAC OS X, Interface Builder, IPhone Simulator. UI/ Web Developer Peppy ware Technologies October 2010 to March 2013 Peppy ware Technologies offers specialized products, practices and solutions for corporate banks, investment banks, and consumer finance institutions, insurance companies and empower organizations around the world with superior Business Technologies solutions and services.    Responsibilities:  • Involvement in all stages of Software development life cycle including Analysis, development, Implementation, testing and support.  • Hand-coded HTML, CSS, Java Script, AJAX and jQuery to create front-end.  • Developed single page web application using JavaScript framework Angular JS.  • Bootstrap used along with Angular JS in creating the Application.  • Designed and implemented a SPA (Single Page Application) using JavaScript, Ajax.  • Created reusable templates and style sheets based on UI standards and guidelines; Performed functional tasks using specifications and wireframes.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility, Responsive Web Design and hence worked on different browsers like Firefox, Google Chrome and Internet Explorer.  • Extensively used/modified JQUERY to perform AJAX calls for creating interactive web pages on JSONresponse.  • Done the design, development and testing phases of Software Development using AGILE methodology.  • Developed the application front-end using Spring framework 3.0 that uses MVC design pattern.  • Coordinate with Interface Design Architects for meeting accessibility standards at code level.  • Design and build UIs on Server Platform in team environment.  • Participating in product development discussions and providing UI related information.  • Maintained W3C standards.    Environment: Agile, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, JAVA, JSP, MYSQL, Eclipse IDE, Tomcat server, web sphere application server. Education Master of Science in Computer Information Systems and Information Technology in Computer Information Systems and Information Technology University of Central Missouri - Warrensburg, MO 2016 Skills .NET (Less than 1 year), ASP (Less than 1 year), ASP.NET (Less than 1 year), C (Less than 1 year), CSS (2 years), Git (Less than 1 year), HTML (2 years), Internet Explorer. (2 years), iOS (5 years), iPhone (3 years), Java Script (2 years), jQuery (2 years), Linux (Less than 1 year), MAC (5 years), MacOS (Less than 1 year), MS ASP (Less than 1 year), MS Windows XP (Less than 1 year), MYSQL (2 years), Objective-C (2 years), Xcode (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming: Objective-C, Swift, Core Data, MYSQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, C, C#.  Knowledge of: ASP.NET, XML.  Devops: Jenkins, Agile, Test flight.  Browsers: Firefox, Chrome, Internet explorer.  DBMSUsed: SQL and SQLite, Core Data.  IDE: Xcode and Visual Studio.net.  Version Control: Git, GitHub.  Systems: MS Windows XP/Windows 7, 8, 10, MacOS X, Linux, iPhone iOS 4++