Sr. Web/AEM Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Web</span>/AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Web/AEM Developer - Federal Home Loan Bank, Minneapolis-MN Minneapolis, MN ? Over 8 years of professional experience as a Front-End User Interface Web Developer with Strong Exposure of AEM 6.2, AEM 6.1, Adobe Day CQ5, JCR.  ? Experienced in design and development of web applications using the technologies like HTML (4.01 and 5), CSS (2 and 3), JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX and JSON.  ? Over 3 years of experience in working in developing applications using JAVA, J2EE Design Patterns, MVC Architecture and Hibernate Framework, using SQL and relational databases.  ? Fully leveraged Web analytics tool to measure, track and optimize user interaction through segmentation, event tracking, conversion funnels, weekly/monthly dashboards, browser testing, heat mapping and other relevant applications of the tool to inform future testing and site improvements.  ? Developed and deployed web pages quickly and efficiently using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Expertise in Adobe CRX (Content Management Extreme), CQ5 WCM, Components, Widgets, CQ5 DAM, Apache Sling.  ? Expert in working with different browsers like Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, Internet Explorer, Safari and Opera and debugged the developed code using Firebug, JS debugger and developer also implemented Cross Browser Compatibility.  ? Solid understanding of CQ5 building blocks, CRX repository, leveraging web content management components for customization and porting of websites.  ? Expert at developing custom components, page templates, template components and workflow.  ? Have Knowledge on Cable, Telecom, Banking and Insurance domains.  ? Comprehensive knowledge in developing web pages obeying Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and applying World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) standards.  ? Experienced in developing and using RESTful Web Services and Responsive Web Design (RWD).  ? Developed the components on Adobe Dreamweaver and Adobe Flex development and deployment SDK.  ? Extensively knowledgeable regarding Document Object Model (DOM) and its functions.  ? Experience with JUNIT for performing Unit Testing and determining the application functionality.  ? Highly curious and passionate to learn about new front-end development technologies. Adept at promptly and thoroughly mastering them with a keen awareness of new industry developments and the evolution of programming solutions.  ? Proven track record demonstrating innovative and unique designing skills, computer proficiency, ability to work in a stressful environment with projects and interaction with every team member ? Hands-on experience of different types of testing methods and tools such as Unit Testing, GIT, Firebug.  ? Extensive Experience in working with Relational Database Management Systems including Oracle, MySQL and SQL Server.  ? Experience with managing daily communication with the offshore development teams in my projects.  ? Have good understanding of Social Collaboration and Campaign Management with CQ.  ? Substantial knowledge on non-technical activities like documentation and following this practices during development process. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Web/AEM Developer Federal Home Loan Bank, Minneapolis-MN February 2017 to Present Responsibilities: • Developed custom page content components, page templates, dialogs for web pages using AEM Slightly for Touch UI.  • Used AngularJS MVC Architecture to split the UI logic into Views, Models and Collections.  • Developed and deployed custom OSGi bundles in AEM system console.  • Wrote custom workflows for publishing web pages and content authoring.  • Design and development of web pages using AEM, Slightly, HTL, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Ajax and JQuery.  • Working on Touch UI Design Dialog of components to have the same content for the component, used either in different templates or in same templates.  • Using Apache Sling, JCR API and HTL Use-API (Java Use-API and JavaScript Use-API) while creating components and Java services.  • Implemented different UI/UX Design patterns using Angular JS, Singleton Pattern and MVC architectural design pattern of spring frame work.  • Validated existing JavaScript code in the project and replaced it with AngularJS code for better performance and reusability. Extensively used JavaScript to make the web page more interactive.  • Responsible for creating dynamic server side pages using JSP.  • Used JQuery for creating various widgets, data manipulation, data traversing, form validations, create the content on the fly depend on the user request, implementing Ajax features for the application.  • Developed Adobe CQ templates and reusable components like multi-field components.  • Worked on AEM communities for users to communicate and post their reviews.  • Strong knowledge on AEM associated technologies like Sling, OSGI, Felix, Jack Rabbit, JCR, and CRX.  • Worked on Tar Compaction and Indexing as part of application maintenance.  • Used GIT as version control and integrated with Jenkins for continuous integration and nightly builds.  • Provided trainings to the business users in content authoring on AEM Author instance using Touch UI.  • Worked on web services to consume the data from the application API's • Wrote custom code (scheduler with corn job) to create assets in DAM, workflows to approve/reject assets and assign tags.  • Involved in building, deploying the code and moving code to different environments.  • Part of the application support team for fixing the incidents after the deployment.    Environment: AEM 6.1, 6.0, CMS, Jenkins, DTM, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, SASS, GIT, Grunt, Angular JS, DAM, Apache Sling, Web Analytics, JSP, AJAX, JSON, REST, Apache Felix, Maven, JAVA, J2EE, Springs. Web/AEM Developer Client Estates-IL August 2016 to January 2017 Responsibilities: ? Worked on Multi Site Manager (MSM) in AEM, enforcing a common base structure and common content across the website.  ? Development of static web pages, landing pages, category landing pages using content management system, Adobe AEM 6.1, 6.0.  ? Developed the Mobile Application with the integrated knowledge of the web technologies HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, and JSON and Angular JS.  ? Technical Developer for AEM projects and assists Product Owners on Roadmap and timeline creation for marketing projects leveraging Adobe Marketing Cloud.  ? Implemented monitoring and reporting through Web Analytics (Google Analytics / Webmaster Tools) ? Used Adobe Analytics Suite (Site Catalyst, Discover, Insight and Data warehouse) to measure, track and optimize user interaction through segmentation, event tracking, conversion funnels, path browsing and heat mapping.  ? Working knowledge on OSGI Sling Platform, Deployment & Packaging, CQ repository JCR & Jackrabbit.  ? Worked on a broad range of loyalty marketing services spanning database marketing, direct mail, email marketing, web development, analytics and data services.  ? Developed the customizable landing pages and AEM custom components.  ? Experience in big data analysis and reporting using Adobe DTM Analytics, Adobe Site Catalyst, Business Objects, Web trends and Microsoft Cosmos ? Developed C-levels and executives for Adobe Digital Marketing Cloud, Target, Social, Experience Manager [AEM], Audience Manager, Campaign, Media Optimizer, and Primetime.  ? Develops, implements and reports on email marketing campaigns through Marketo, Exact Target, Google Analytics and Omniture.  ? Collaborated with business segments on digital and online marketing strategy ? Utilized various JQUERY plugins to build Rich Internet Application (RIA) to make it look more intuitive. Involved in implementation of RESTful web service APIs using AJAX calls and JSON as data exchanging tool.  ? Developed the web page code with high flexibility using the Document Object Model (DOM) i.e., removability and reinsertion of nodes is made easy.  ? Experience in SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) and Web Services technologies (SOAP, WSDL, RESTFUL).  ? Ability to develop quickly and with high quality via Sprints under the SCRUM methodology    Environment: AEM 6.1, 6.0, CMS, Jenkins, DTM, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS DAM, Apache Sling, Web Analytics, JSP, AJAX, JSON, REST, Apache Felix, Maven, JAVA, J2EE, Springs, Hibernates. CQ5 Developer Wells Fargo, Hoffman - Los Angeles, CA March 2013 to July 2016 Responsibilities: ? Responsible for programming, testing, implementation, documentation, maintenance and support of WCM software components in adherence, processes and industry best practices.  ? Developed high quality, secure, scalable WCM solutions based on technical requirements specifications and design artefacts.  ? Worked as a CQ5 developer upon established JAVA and web development experience and also engaging in a variety of new technologies and platforms, including Adobe CQ5.5 and JSONP.  ? Coordinates with team to ensure that team is operating in an efficient and sustainable manner in developing CQ templates, components, and services.  ? Implemented J2EE design patterns such as Factory, DAO, Session, Singleton, Value object.  ? Designed and developed Web pages using HTML, CSS including AJAX controls, JSON and XML.  ? Diagnose the issues, advantages of having to migrate from Web Trends to Google Analytics Premium.  ? Developed JQuery and JavaScript code extensively for operating Document Object Model (DOM) and style sheets.  ? Preparation and review of Unit Test Plan, Unit Testing, and Test Results review Adobe Target, Cucumber and Selenium reports and other quality related work.  ? Open a pop up window from list grid field and dynamic form field for adding, modifying and deleting a record from target list.  ? Implemented Google Analytics as POC across various companies' product website, including the corporate website.  ? Worked on CQ5 Forms customization by developing the custom form fields, writing the custom constraints for form fields and specifying the global validation resource type at the form level.  ? GIT is used as a distributed revision control system for CQ5. File vault in conjunction with GIT helps to pull or push the code to developers machine ? Development Mobile web application for Android, iOS and BlackBerry Device.  ? Wireframes are transformed to the full-fledged web pages using the Adobe content manager and some customized functionalities using object oriented JavaScript, HTML and CSS.  ? Implemented modules using Core Java APIs, Java collection and integrating the modules.  ? Assisted Senior Team members in modification of the documentation templates per the needs of the project and technology.  ? Continuous development and modifications of the web pages are executed as required for the customers using agile methodology.    Environments: HTML 4.01/5, CSS3, Web Analytics, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, OSGI, CQ5 , Apache Sling, Apache Felix, DTM, Responsive web Design, DOM, Agile methodology. Jr. CQ5 Developer Bank of America , W July 2012 to March 2013 Responsibilities: ? Strong experience in the design and development phases of the web applications and operated as an effective team member.  ? Implemented, tested and deployed the enterprises applications using the technologies and methodologies HTML 4.01, CSS2, JavaScript, JQuery and DOM.  ? Experience with development of mobile applications.  ? Created web pages with CSS3 Box model, animations & transitions, web fonts and content & counters.  ? Responsible to solve the problems using JavaScript and can hand-code it effortlessly.  ? Implemented source controls using JavaScript and JQuery and designed the functionalities based on the templates which are intuitive to the users.  ? Proficiently used JQuery UI widgets which reduced the amount of hand-coded program and easily maintained its modularity.  ? Used JQuery in developing the Rich Internet Applications (RIA) with AJAX mechanism and JSON as a data exchange tool.  ? Used AJAX effectively for fetching data from the databases.  ? Hands-on experience in working with Git distributed version control.  ? Provided browser compatibility check, handled issues and fixed the bugs involved in different browsers.  ? Substantially experienced in the development methodology involved with the scrum method and the sprint cycles.    Environments: HTML 4.01, CSS2, JavaScript, JQuery, Debugging, Git version control, Eclipse and Browser Compatibility, DOJO. Java Developer First Source IT Service - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2010 to June 2012 Responsibilities: • Created the web UI using Struts, JSP, Servlets and Custom tags.  • Created connection pooling method to avoid the waiting for database connection.  • Designed applications using UML. Elaborated on the Use Cases based on business requirements and was responsible for creation of Class Diagrams, Object Interaction Diagrams (Sequence and Collaboration) and Activity Diagrams.  • Used Struts Framework in designing the Presentation Layer using Action and Action Form classes.  • Implemented Struts framework (MVC): used Action Servlet, Action Form bean, configured the struts configuration file, implemented Validator frame work.  • Implemented Tag libraries, Custom Tag Libraries, development of Presentation Tier using JSP pages integrating jQuery, Custom Tag's, JSP Taglibs, HTML, DHTML and JavaScript.  • Test and Support accessible and standards based web applications built with Java, Struts, XSLT, XSL, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX to match design and functionality defined.  • Involved in the design and development of Business Tier using Service Beans (Stateless session bean), Data Access Layer using JDBC.  • Experienced in XML Schema for document exchange XML. Generating, parsing and displaying the XML in various formats using XSLT, DHTML and CSS.  • Used Java-J2EE patterns like Model View Controller (MVC), Business Delegate, Data Transfer Objects, Data Access Objects, Singleton and factory patterns.  • Designed and Developed front-end using struts framework. Used JSP, JavaScript, JSTL, EL, Custom Tag libraries, Tiles and Validations provided by struts framework.  • Responsible for coding SQL Statements and Stored procedures for back end communication using JDBC.  • Migrated the application to the Jakarta Struts architecture and developed an extensible class library around the Struts Action and Action Form classes to simplify the migration of the application.  • Extensively worked on Prepared Statements and Callable Statements of JDBC 2.0 API to access the Oracle database.  • Deployed the application in the Web Logic Server environment using Ant tool using Struts architecture with the JSP Client.    Environment: JAVA, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, EJB, JavaScript, Web Logic, RAD, Oracle 8i, UML, Xml, Builder. Education Bachelor's