Sr .Net Developer Sr .Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr .Net Developer - AIG Houston, TX • Around 9+years of professional experience in all stages of the SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) which involves the project requirements, analysis, design, implement, testing, deployment, and maintain the project.  • Hands on experience on developing client-server and web-based projects using technologies like ASP.NET, C#.NET, ADO.NET, JavaScript, JQuery, web controls, XML, AJAX, Reporting Tools.  • Experience in software design Patterns like 3-Tier, N-Tier and Service-oriented architecture (SOA) applications which are implemented with OOP/D (Object Oriented Programming and Design) like Inheritance, Polymorphism.  • Extensive experience of designing and developing software applications in MVC model of Win Forms, Web Services, WCF, Web Forms and Windows Services with Microsoft Visual studio [ ] and.NET Framework [ ] using C#, ASP.NET and VB.NET on Windows/Linux environment.  • Designed and Developed Various Angular 2/4 Component Single Page Applications (ngModule), Services (observable/promises), Directive and Pipes for data filters.  • Experience working with .NET features like Events & Delegates, Generics & Collections, Multi- Threading, Exception Handling, Serialization.  • Developed Graphical User Interfaces using HTML/HTML4/HTML5, Cascading Style Sheets (CSS, CSS2, and CSS3), XML, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Used Bootstrap to Style the web pages and make the application responsive.  • Developed and deployed a variety of .NET Framework Applications including MVC and Razor  • Engine to create different classes using C# in application.  • Expertise in developing GUI (Graphical User Interfaces) using C# Client/Server (Win Forms) and experience with Data Accessing including using Data Adapter, Data Reader and Dataset in ADO.NET, Language Integrated Query (LINQ) providers for data manipulation from LINQ to objects, XML and SQL.  • Implemented Angular 2 client-side form Validation using various Controls and Filters.  • Experience in .NET security features such as Authentication (Windows-based Authentication, Forms-based Authentication) and Authorization (Authorizing Users and Roles)  • Experience in developing reports using Crystal Reports, MS Access reports, and SQL Server  • Reporting Services (SSRS)  • Created Complex ETL Packages using SSIS to extract data from staging tables to with incremental load.  • Excellent knowledge in understanding and using Oracle 11g, SQL and PL/SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions, Views and Database Design.  • Experience in importing/exporting data from varied data sources using SQL Server Integration services (SSIS), Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and Crystal Reports.  • Experience in developing the project based on Agile Scrum methodology.  • Expertise in MS Team Foundation Server (TFS) to manage the team work on development environment, and Visual Source Safe (VSS)and CSV, SVN, Ankh SVN, Tortoise SVN for Version Controlling.  • Good Team Player with excellent communication, analytical, verbal and writing skills along with strong management, organizational and mentoring skills.  • Proven record of working in both small and big teams under stringent timing constraints and ability to deliver on time.  • Proven Ability to lead and manage complete project life cycles, from initial planning/requirements gathering to final testing and deployment. Work Experience Sr .Net Developer AIG - Houston, TX, US June 2017 to Present Worked as a .NET developer in the infrastructure organization and Office product group. The projects ranged from developing web applications for the demand management system, business analysts and worked on the application specifications to develop detailed functional, technical design, and test specifications that fully satisfy business requirements.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented the service layer using the custom HTTP handler which supports both XML and JSON for request/response.  • Used Entity Framework for accessing the data from the data access layer/ backend.  • Created ASP.NET User Controls and custom controls for code reusability and to reduce the complexity of user interface design.  • Developed Data access layer using ADO.NET Objects and C#.  • Used Entity Framework to create entities in Data Access Layer.  • Created SQL queries, Stored procedures, Views, Triggers and implemented SQL queries in c#  • Evaluated database performance and performed maintenance duties such as tuning, backup and restoration.  • Designed Use case documentation, test cases.  • Performed Code review and Unit testing for better performance.  • Performed Code review and Unit testing using NUnit testing, MSTEST, MOQ for quality code.  • Involved in AGILE Methodology for the software development process. Used SQL Profiler for capturing the database calla fired from the top layer.  • Deployed project in IIS.  • Developed Web Forms for User Interfaces using ASP.NET and C#.NET using Server Controls, HTML Controls and User Controls.  • Created REST based APIs to form middle layer for the UI systems (JSON input stream).  • Design the Database entities from Business Models using Entity Framework.  • Used LINQ to build set of operations, parameters and expression during execution a set of data from SQL Server.  • Involved in the requirement gathering, design of the systems and development using Agile.  • Enhanced the UI design for web applications.  • Designed and developed Web Pages using ASP.NET, C#.NET, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, CSS and server controls.  • Extensive Knowledge on Microsoft .NET design Patterns including Dependency Injection (DI), MVVM and MVC.  • Extensively involved in developing components for Business Layer and Data Layer.  • Developed many T-SQL queries to fetch data as per the business requirements with proper tuning techniques.  • Enhanced the applications performance by constantly monitoring the queries by running Execution plans and query optimization techniques in SQL server.  • Involved in the Unit and Integration testing.  • Used GitHub for Version control.  • Developed several REST web services supporting both XMLand JSON to performed tasks.  • Used AJAX, JQUERY and HTML with MVC views to produce rich user interface.  • Worked on JQUERY lib to post data to MVC action method.  • Wrote queries, stored procedures to deliver reporting tools.  • Created LINQ enabled database layer using API such as LINQ to SQL and Entity Framework.  • Performed unit testing on the code and delivered test driven approach development.  • Created web applications that analyze based upon machine learning to show recommendations.  • Participate and lead in the scrum calls.    Environment: Visual Studio 2015, C#, ASP.NET MVC 5.0/4.0, Entity Framework 6.0/4.3,.NET Framework 4.5, Rest full Services, WEB API,TFS 2013, JQuery, Java script, AJAX, JSON, IIS 7.0, Microsoft Azure, HTML5, CSS3,SQL Server 2012(T-SQL,PL/SQL, Stored procedures, Triggers). .Net Developer October 2015 to May 2017 Worked at as a .NET developer in the cloud infrastructure organization and Office product group. The projects ranged from developing web applications for the demand management system, creating reports to show the metrics for the various businesses and creating portal system to promote cross product features.    Responsibilities:  • Design and develop web based, desktop applications using Microsoft .NET stack hosted in Azure.  • Used AngularJS framework for validating the required fields and check the duplicate records in client side validation.  • Created excel based reports using VBA, Power Query.  • Involved in development of MVC 3.0/4.0 patterns for client server interaction.  • Developed cross browser compatible, customer facing online application based on N-Tier Architecture.  • Dealt with Bootstrap to present the application in a visually appealing manner and to render customer information as users were adding details to their profile.  • Managed mid-sized SQL databases on Azure SQL servers.  • Used front-end web development tools like AJAX, CSS, JavaScript, DHTML, and JQuery.  • Worked with JQuery UI and Bootstrap, Knockout.js for creating new web applications using MVC.  • Generated business objects in DAL layer to implement more functionality in Entities.  • Extensively worked with various built-in .NET security features such as cryptography, password storage, web service security and many other .NET features.  • Worked with various authentication and authorization attacks such as man-in-the-middle, cross-site request forgery, click jacking, and session hijacking  • Created and deployed Web Services using ASP.NET, SOAP and XML for Pulling Customer Service Records.  • Modified Web Services to interact with the other applications and exposed them using SOAP and HTTP.  • Used WCF for developing and deploying services on windows in line with the Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Integrated with other systems using Azure Event Hubs and Topics (Microsoft Azure specific Messaging and queue services).  • Developed Stored Procedures, Triggers, and Views in SQL Server 2012 for accessing the database.  • Experience on Entity-Framework for Object-Relational Mapping (ORM).  • Used Interfaces, Delegates, Generics and Collections in the business logic layer.  • Maintaining the version of the project in Team Foundation Server (TFS) by merging the module developed with latest version in TFS.  • Used TFS (Team Foundation Server) and Git for version control and collaboration of team effort.  • Created Data Access layer operations by ADO.NET Entity framework  • Used C# from Visual Studio 2012, Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF), XAML,.NET Framework 4.0, LINQ, and WinForms, Methodologies included MVVM to build web applications.  • Extensively worked with bug tracking, issue tracking and project management functions by using multiple software.  • Developed and Designed enterprise-level business-critical development code using C#.NET, SQL Server, XML Windows Forms, WPF, Silverlight.  • Design and GUI development in Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) and Windows Forms. Experience in complete project life-cycle, including capturing requirements, code-reviewing and unit testing in Client server development techniques working closely with Project Managers, testing team.  • Designed and developed Services using WCF and also leveraged WCF security mechanism at transport level with windows authentication type for our intranet applications.  • Implemented debugging and exception logging mechanisms modules for WCF services which will be used in Business to Business services to save time and cost.  • Implemented Layouts and partial view to maintain the consistent look and feel for Razor WebPages.  • Analyzed and designed new WPF application using MVVM and Repository pattern, from design to completion.  • Providing Release Management and Build Automation with TFS 2013 Build Automation.  • Responsible for Automated Staging Server Version Deployment to Production.  • Writing Stored Procedures and User Defined Scalar Functions (UDFs) to be used in the SSISpackages SQL Scripts.  • Designed and Developed reports using SSRS. Reports were developed against a variety of data sources which included SSRS.  • Used SSIS to manipulate data to integrate the SQL Server database into larger processes.  • Developed business logic including Code-behind files and Classes in N-tier.  • Creating - Tables, Indexes, Views, User defined functions, Triggers, Parameterized Stored Procedures, Constraints and Roles.  • Developed procedures and functions for business & data transactions with Error Handling.  • Used Re-Sharper and Style Cop for code enhancement Designed and coded application components in an agile environment.    Environment: MVC 3.0/4.0, .NET Framework 4.0, Visual Studio 2012, ASP.NET 4.0, C# 4.5, VB.NET, Entity Framework, HTML, CSS, AngularJS, Kendo UI, Window Azure, Bootstrap, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, WCF, WPF, SOAP UI, Rest API,PAAS, SAAS, SQL Server 2012, SSRS, SSIS,ORACLE11g, PL/SQL,T-SQL and TFS. .Net Developer State Farm - Dallas, TX, US August 2013 to September 2015 State Farm is a group of insurance and financial services companies in the United States. The projects ranged from developing web applications for the demand management system, business analysts and worked on the application specifications to develop detailed functional, technical design, and test specifications that fully satisfy business requirements.    Responsibilities:  • Interacted with business analysts and worked on the application specifications to develop detailed functional, technical design, and test specifications that fully satisfy business requirements.  • Used ASP.NET Master Pages, JQuery, HTML and CSS for designing UI.  • Used Forms Authentication to validate the authenticity of the users.  • Worked on MVC Framework and ADO.NET Entity model.  • Used WCF to develop an Admin service that provides the capability to perform all configuration activities.  • Developed WCF Services using Representational State Transfer (REST) style to suffice the non-SOAP based requests.  • Written SQL Scripts, Stored procedures and functions.  • Solved performance issues by monitoring the performance using the Red Gate performance profiler and Visual studio performance profiler.  • Designed numerous GUI screens/Win forms/WPF for user interface.  • Generated various reports using SSRS.  • Involved in development of Web Forms, Classes using C#.NET that incorporates both N-tier architecture and database connectivity.  • Worked on different aspects of .NET framework, like ASP.NET 2.0/3.0, ADO.NET and C#.  • Involved in designing of User Interface with CSS, HTML, and DHTML.  • Application was developed under ASP.NET MVC architecture. Used AJAX Library, CSS, JavaScript and various web controls to present data to users in a much comfortable environment.  • Used various ASP.NET 2.0 web server controls that included Site Map Path, Menu, Tree View, Grid View and Details View to develop web forms.  • Used AJAX to trade data with a web server, without reloading the page.  • Created event driven Web Forms using ASP.NET and implemented form validation.  • Used SOAP to Implement Web Services and Consumed and published XML web services in the application.  • Created CSS files to be applied to various web forms on the web pages.  • Extensively used AJAX to reduce connections to the server, since scripts and style sheets only have to be requested once.  • Developed using Web services, WEB API for exposing web services, SOAP and used IIS (Internet information services).  • Experience working with different environments for Dev, INT, QA and Prod.  • Have used design patterns such as Unit of Work, Observer Pattern(UI), Façade Pattern, MVC  • Pattern (Backend)  • Worked on a custom Error handling component to handle the errors across the application.  • Developed SQL Server Stored Procedures and functions for Encrypting usernames, passwords, reading and updating appointments, searching provider networks and locations etc.  • Developed custom reports using SSRS.    Environment: C#, ASP.NET, .NET Framework 3.5, Visual studio 2010, IIS 6.5, ADO.NET,VB.NET, MVC, WCF, SQL Server 2008R2,SSRS, Web services, Silverlight, WPF, WCF, Angular JS, Entity Framework, JQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, HTML,XSLT, REST, JSON, CSS, Oracle 10g, SOAP. Net Developer Persistent Systems April 2011 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Successfully organized initial set of requirements into master list of Use Cases.  • Worked in an Agile Environment to deliver higher-quality software far more rapidly.  • Involved in development of Web Forms, Classes using C#.NET that incorporates both N-tier architecture and database connectivity.  • Worked on different aspects of .NET framework, like ASP.NET 2.0/3.0, ADO.NET and C#.  • Involved in designing of User Interface with CSS, HTML, and DHTML.  • Application was developed under ASP.NET MVC architecture. Used AJAX Library, CSS, JavaScript and various web controls to present data to users in a much comfortable environment.  • Used various ASP.NET 2.0 web server controls that included Site Map Path, Menu, Tree View, Grid View and Details View to develop web forms.  • Used AJAX to trade data with a web server, without reloading the page.  • Created event driven Web Forms using ASP.NET and implemented form validation.  • Used SOAP to Implement Web Services and Consumed and published XML web services in the application.  • Developed the Pulse web based application using ASP.NET MVC 4.0 which consists of View, Controller, View Model and Model classes. Pulse façade acts as a façade layer for the Pulse Mobile app and Pulse web application.  • Developed backend application code using C#.NET.  • Developed a web request handler application to invoke the Restful API by passing JSON input parameters.  • Created CSS files to be applied to various web forms on the web pages.  • Extensively used AJAX to reduce connections to the server, since scripts and style sheets only have to be requested once.  • Developed extensive Stored Procedures and Triggers in Oracle 9i and developed classes' for connecting to the Oracle 9i Database.  • Created Crystal reports 10.0 on the web page by accessing the database.  • Involved in Unit Testing and Integration Testing of the entire application.  • Implemented version controlling using Visual Source Safe.    Environment: ASP.NET 2.0/3.0, Visual studio 2008, SQL Server 2008 R2, .NET Framework 3.0, C#, ADO.NET,VB.NET, ASP.NET, EXCEL, XML, XSLT, Web services, HTML, DHTML, WPF,WCF, JavaScript, Silverlight, AJAX, IIS 6.0, CSS, JQuery, LINQ, Win Forms, Oracle 9i, SOAP. Web Developer September 2009 to March 2011 An Intranz solution is a company which provides comprehensive and high quality web services. The company is managed by group of strong R&D teams and subject matters expert with several years of experience in web technology deployed on internet.    Responsibilities:  • Extensively worked with Win Forms using ASP.NET and C#.NET.  • Developed the web application using C#.NET, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, and SQL Server.  • Interacted with client end -user during requirements gathering sessions.  • Worked with ASP.NET AJAX Controls and Extenders and Win Forms.  • Extensively used ASP.NET Validation Controls and JavaScript for client side validations.  • Gained valuable experience working with ASP.NET and C#, developed application logic in C#.  • Responsible for writing stored procedures, functions using T-Sql to intercourse between tables to perform data operations on Oracle and SQL 2005/2008.  • Extensively used ASP.NET Validation Controls and JavaScript for client side validations.  • Gained valuable experience working with ASP.NET and C#, developed application logic in C#.  • Responsible for writing stored procedures, functions using T-Sql to intercourse between tables to perform data operations on Oracle and SQL 2005/2008.  • Inner join, left outer join were used during the project at back-end and business layer design.  • Involved in migrating the application from Asp to ASP.NET.  • Developed many Web Forms using C# and ASP.NET and used AJAX in some forms.  • Created and optimized views for user interactions using objects of HTML Helper class, Custom Helpers and JavaScript.  • Inner join, left outer join were used during the project at back-end and business layer design.  • Involved in migrating the application from Asp to ASP.NET.  • Developed many Web Forms using C# and ASP.NET and used AJAX in some forms.  • Created and optimized views for user interactions using objects of HTML Helper class, Custom Helpers and JavaScript.  • Gained experience working in a team based environment.  • Gained knowledge about Web Services for user authentication.  • Used Windows-UI (XAML, HTML) to enterprise, modernize &mobilize Win Forms applications.  • Used Active Directory for security and authentication for the different users and administration level.    Environment: C#.NET, ASP.NET, JavaScript, Win Forms, SQL Server 2005, AJAX, HTML, CSS, Web services, Visual Studio 2005/2008 and .NET Framework, VB.NET, ADO.NET, LINQ to SQL, WPF, XAML, VSS. Education Bachelor's Skills .NET, MICROSOFT VISUAL STUDIO, VISUAL STUDIO, VISUAL STUDIO 6, API Additional Information SKILLS  • .NET (8+ years), AJAX (8+ years), CSS (8+ years), HTML (8 +years), JavaScript (8+ years)    TECHNOLOGIES SKILL SET    Programming Languages: C#.NET, C, VB. NET, C++, VB 6.0, SQL, T-SQL, PL/SQL .NET  Technologies: ASP.NET, ADO.NET, ASP.NET MVC, WCF, WPF, Web API, LINQ, ADO.NET, MVVM, Web Services, Web Forms, Web Parts, .NET Framework, Entity Framework.    Methodologies:  • Agile (Scrum), Test-driven development (TDD), Waterfall  Databases  • SQL Server [ ] (T-SQL, Stored procedures, Triggers, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS), Oracle [ ] Version Control  • Visual Source Safe 6.0, Team Foundation Server, GitHub  Web Technologies  • XML, XAML, CSHTML, HTML/HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, kendo UI, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, AngularJS  Other Tools  • Microsoft Visual Studio. Net [ ] MS Office, Visual Studio 6.0, and Microsoft Enterprise Library