Android Developer Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Android Developer - Adidev Technologies Inc Atlanta, GA I am currently an Android Developer seeking to relocate from Atlanta,Georgia to Miami, Florida. I am also open to other locations in the United States and world wide. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Android Developer Adidev Technologies Inc - Atlanta, GA July 2019 to Present • Published 3 applications to the Google Play Store. (Spotify - Music Streaming, Shutterfly: Free Prints and WeightWatchers.)  • Integrating Android mobile applications with social media sign in, media player classes and implementation of geo-location and map features, continuous integration components, web hooks and unit tests.  • Work remotely and collaboratively with Resource Manager in order to identify client business needs and technology requirements.  • Working with Git and version control software to manage different versions of the Android mobile applications.  • Demonstrating familiarity with RESTful APIs to connect Android applications to back-end services like Google Firebase, Amazon Web Services and Google Cloud Platform tools. Overnight Ramp Agent G2 Secure Staff - Atlanta, GA July 2019 to Present • Handling and care of passenger baggage. Loading, unloading, transportation to and from various locations of the airport.  • Operation of various aircraft servicing equipment to handle aircraft electrical, engine start, lavatories and water service, and deicing in some locations.  • Provide safe guidance of aircraft to and from parked areas, taxiways and gate areas. Utilizing visual, hand, verbal and electronic communications.  • Thorough cleaning of aircraft interiors, including turn and overnight as directed by company and/or client specifications and procedures.  • Staying in compliance with all FAA/Airline/Company/Airport regulations. Android Developer Spotify - New York, NY May 2018 to Present • Demonstrating object-oriented design pattern and successfully implemented in Android.  • Implementing nearby concerts features using Google map API.  • Research and integration of Material Design and the latest changes from the Android L preview.  • Responsible for the planning, architecture and development of an Android app with REST API integration.  • Worked with SQLite for implementing local storage to store various user data, playlists and preferences. Configuration Engineer II Anthem Inc - Atlanta, GA May 2017 to April 2019 • Using the following software support tools: JIRA, SNOW, Clearcase (UCM and Base), Putty, Perl, Informatica, Bitbucket, Git, Artifactory, Maven, Atlassian - Jira/Confluence, Wiki, Owen, and Rational Tool Suite to manage configuration files and VBA scripts.  • Automating manual processes with the following deployment tools; Ipswitch WS_FTP Pro, WinScp, Build Forge, XL Deploy, BladeLogic, Visual Studio, .Net.  • Training fellow engineers in using Shell Scripting/Troubleshooting, CLI – Linux, Unix and Windows, Environment Troubleshooting/build-outs/builds & promotions, and Testing - unit, system & performance load processes.  • Using Microsoft technologies (Excel, Visio, MS Project, Powerpoint, etc), Windows Server Configuration & Utilities (Task Scheduler, etc), Microsoft Exchange Server, Websphere Application Server Administration and Support, Infogix-Assure, FACETs, Intel for report management.  Supporting the Configuration Management team by storing all training documents, reference materials and job aids using database tools; ODBC, SYBASE, Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle. Front End Web Developer The Precious Agency LLC - Atlanta, GA May 2017 to April 2019 • Proficient understanding of code version control tools, such as Git.   • Good understanding of SEO principles and ensuring that web applications will adhere to them.  • Installing and setting up Wordpress Content Management System (CMS) to communicate with the agency’s Domain Name Server (DNS) provided by the clients hosting service(i.e. BlueHost, Google Domains and cloud services like Digital Ocean, Amazon Web Services and Locally Hosted web files.) Android Developer Shutterfly: Free Prints - Redwood City, CA April 2017 to May 2018 • Responsible for developing and maintaining main features, application infrastructure, architecture and design. Technologies used are: Java, Kotlin, MVP, MVVM, Android Architecture Components and Tensorflow.  • Implemented all layouts, some of which utilized RecyclerViews for memory optimized lists and ConstraintLayouts with auto resizing TextViews to achieve fully scalable UI for any phone or tablet device.  • Performed complete refactoring of several major components: user info, authentication module, automatic media uploader module and several more.  • Performed all Android SDK and Gradle plugin upgrades handling and all breaking changes.  • Implemented all Fragment lifescycles, backstacks, and navigations within ViewPager views. Android Developer Weight Watchers International - New York, NY April 2017 to May 2018 • Responsible for developing and maintaining main features, application infrastructure, architecture and design. Technologies used are: Java, Kotlin, MVP, MVVM, Android Architecture Components and Tensorflow.  • Implemented all layouts, some of which utilized RecyclerViews for memory optimized lists and ConstraintLayouts with auto resizing TextViews to achieve fully scalable UI for any phone or tablet device.  • Performed complete refactoring of several major components: user info, authentication module, automatic media uploader module and several more.  • Performed all Android SDK and Gradle plugin upgrades handling and all breaking changes.  • Implemented all Fragment lifescycles, backstacks, and navigations within ViewPager views. Education Technical Occupational Diploma in Mobile Web Specialist Georgia Institute of Technology - Atlanta, GA January 2018 to August 2018 Diploma The Iron Yard Code and Design School - Raleigh, NC October 2016 to January 2017 High School Diploma Lincoln Park Academy - Fort Pierce, FL August 2005 to June 2012 Skills Android (7 years), Android Sdk (7 years), Git (3 years), Google (7 years), Java (7 years), HTML 5 (7 years), CSS3 (7 years), Javascript (7 years), Windows (10+ years), Web Design (10+ years), Digital Media (7 years), Adobe (7 years), Programming (10+ years), Graphic Design (7 years), Photoshop (7 years), Illustrator (7 years), Indesign (7 years), Social Media Management (7 years), .NET (2 years), JQuery (3 years), Customer Relationship Management (7 years), Powerpoint (10+ years), Excel (2 years) Links https://github.com/GenieCloud