Sr. Programmer Analyst Sr. Programmer Analyst Sr. Programmer Analyst - Superior Court of Arizona, Phoenix Arcadia, CA • Full Stack Developer with hands on experience of designing, developing and maintaining diverse web applications using different tech stacks.  • 10+ years of experience in SDLC - Software Development Lifecycle involving Requirement Analysis, Designing/Architect, Coding, Unit Testing, Integration Testing, Project Maintenance, System Support and Technical Support of applications in Web based, Client/Server architecture.  • Advanced experience in ASP.NET, ASP.NET MVC, ASP.NET Core, ADO.NET, C#, VB.NET, WCF and Web Services.  • Strong experience in web based front end development using Angular 6, AngularJS, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML & CSS.  • Very Strong in Object Oriented Analysis/Design and implemented Design Patterns across various applications.  • Extensive experience in architecture, design and development of Client-Server and Web Applications with ASP.NET MVC.  • Implemented SOA architecture with web services and WCF using SOAP, REST, WSDL and XML.  • Experience in using reporting tools like SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and Crystal Reports.  • Excellent experience in working with source controls VSS, Visual Studio Team Foundation Server (TFS).  • Experience in preparing Design Flow, Technical Sequence Diagrams, DB Schema Diagrams using MS Visio.  • Experience in configuring websites in IIS 8.0/7.0/6.0/5.0.  • Exposure to Business modeling skills Scrum, Agile, Waterfall.  • Experience working with off-shore development teams on multiple projects.  • Proficient at setting priorities and meeting goals, outstanding communication and interpersonal capabilities.  • Energetic and self-motivated Team player with proven ability to work under tight deadlines, adaptable to new technologies, rapidly achieve organizational integration, quick learner and can work efficiently as an individual. Work Experience Sr. Programmer Analyst Superior Court of Arizona, Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ March 2016 to Present Sr. Web Developer State of Arizona, Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ January 2015 to March 2016 Project: Jobs Integrated Reporting System (JIRS)    Description: The Arizona Department of Economic Security (ADES) is responsible for the implementation of Arizona's State-operated Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) Program. This TANF application is responsible for handling the eligibility criteria of individuals, managing the applications for cash benefits and updating the reports in weekly, bi-weekly and monthly manner.    Responsibilities:  • Actively Involved in Development, Testing and System support of the DERS/EA/JIRS Internet and Intranet application.  • Involved in coding the application using ASP.NET MVC, jQuery, C# WinForms, Entity Framework.  • Created Business Logic Layer & Data Access Layers to implement the MVC architecture.  • Implementation of client-side validations using jQuery and ASP.NET MVC Validation implemented at Controller level.  • Implemented the front-end layer as a MVC 4.0 web application with the Razor View Engine.  • Grouped Models, Views and Controllers in Areas to have a more maintainable code.  • Improved user experience adding drag and drop functionality helped by jQuery JavaScript framework in HTML5/CSS3 pages.  • Coded repository pattern classes for the business logic and data access layers with Entity Framework code first approach.  • Created SQL Store Procedures for complex queries which had performances issues if implemented using LINQ.  • Migrated data from Heterogeneous Data Sources and legacy system (IBM DB2) to SQL Server databases using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) to overcome transformation constraints.  • Utilized Visio to make diagrams for creating technical models for applications.  • Fixed Bugs &created data fixes scripts to well maintain the existing application.  • Handled many production issues and enhanced the User interface as per the requirements.  • Provide estimates, daily & weekly status report to the client on progress of the tasks.  • Used Scrum methodology for managing development progress.  Environment: Visual Studio 2012, ASP.NET MVC, C#, jQuery, WinForms, Entity Framework, SQL Server, SSRS. Programmer Analyst Security Benefit - Topeka, KS September 2012 to December 2014 Project: SE2 Implementation    Description: Security Benefit is a leading vendor for implementing internal client websites and maintaining their Databases. Security Benefit focuses on the retirement savings market providing a full range of services to independent distributors including broker/dealers, IMOs and other financial service providers. A comprehensive suite of retirement savings products including both accumulation and income annuities, retirement plans and mutual funds are offered to individual and institutional investors nationwide through a broad network of independent financial representatives.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement Analysis, Design, Implementation, Unit Testing and System support of the multiple client applications.  • Designed and developed applications using ASP.NET, MVC, jQuery, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS, AJAX, JSON, C#.NET, Web Services and XML.  • Performed Client-side validations with JavaScript and Server-side validations with ASP.Net.  • Developed front-end for ASP.NET web applications, using HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, Master pages and CSS.  • Implemented Angular Controllers to maintain each view data.  • Created Business Logic Layer & Data Access Layers to implement the MVC architecture.  • Leveraged Umbraco for the CMS architecture by maintaining and updating the Security Benefit website.  • Developed core functionality with the ASP.NET MVC Framework using C#.NET and ADO.NET.  • Developed WCF RESTful web services using Entity Framework as the data access layer to SQL Server.  • Designed and constructed the site using Umbraco, Razor and XSLT.  • Created and Unit Test intricate client-side interactions with jQuery and JavaScript.  • Developed complex stored procedure, views and functions in SQL 2010 to tune queries for performance improvement and used LINQ queries to filter data set.  • Created SSIS packages (ETL) to migrate data from MS Excel, Flat Files, .CSV files, Oracle etc.  • Extensively used Fiddler and dynaTRACE tools to monitor and improve the performance of the ASP.NET MVC Web pages.  • Involved in moving the application to QA, UAT, and Staging and Production environments.  • Performed data extraction, transformation and loading (ETL) between systems using SQL tools such as SSIS.  • Performed requirement walkthroughs with the Dev and QA teams with the aim to develop testing strategies and test plans such that test cases reflect user needs.  • Provide estimates, daily & weekly status report to the client on progress of the tasks.  • Used Execution Plan, SQL Profiler and Database Engine Tuning Advisor to optimize queries and enhance the performance of databases.  Environment: ASP.NET 4.5/4.0, MVC, C#, VB.NET, ADO.NET, HTML, CSS, XML, AngularJS, JavaScript, jQuery, Web Services, Visual Studio 2012/2010/2008, SQL Server 2010/2008, SSRS, SSIS, TFS 2012. .NET Developer 3M Motor Vehicle Systems Organization - Austin, TX February 2010 to September 2012 Project: Motor Vehicle Systems Application    Description: 3M Motor Vehicle Systems is a suite of applications as a total Enterprise system that integrates varying business functions including Driver Record and Issuance, Vehicle Registration and Titling, Accounting Transactions, Dealer Compliance, and Motor Carrier Solutions.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on Kansas and Connecticut states DMV implementations.  • Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in developing the application.  • Created UML diagrams like Case Diagrams and used them in developing and testing the application.  • Involved in designing user forms, web pages, interfaces using HTML, CSS, XHTML, Web server  • Controls.  • Performed client-side and server-side form validations using JavaScript and ASP.NET validation controls respectively.  • Extensively used ADO.NET objects like SQL command object, data reader object, dataset object, data adaptor object for developing data access layer for the application.  • Designed and generated database objects and Oracle Forms, Reports, and Libraries through Oracle Designer.  • Involved in Database Design on SQL Server 2008 and responsible for writing Stored Procedures, User Defined functions, Views and Triggers using T-SQL.  • Involved in writing complex SQL Queries and provided SQL Scripts for the Configuration Data which is used by the application.  • Involved in understanding the Business Rules for Driver Record and Issuance Verification Solution (DRIVS) and implementing and integrating with existing modules in the application.  • Involved in enhancing and implementing new rules into the business logic using C#.  • Supported the already implemented Dealer Licensing Registration Solution (DLRS).  • Implemented new Business Rules and change requests in the DRIVS module.  • Analyzed the existing module and fixed the bugs reported by the client.  • Actively involved in writing technical specifications and documentation of the project.  Environment: Microsoft .NET Framework 3.0/3.5, C#, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Web Services, IIS 6.0, HTML, XML, AJAX, JavaScript, SOAP, Oracle Forms 6i, 10g, Oracle Developer, Designer 9i, SQL*Plus, MS SQL Server 2005, Team Foundation Server TFS). Education Bachelor's Skills MICROSOFT SQL SERVER, MVC (7 years), Angular (4 years), SQL (9 years), Entity Framework (5 years), Web API (6 years), Git (4 years), HTML, TYPESCRIPT, WCF (3 years), Web Services (4 years), ORM (5 years), REPORTING TOOLS (6 years), TFS (7 years), ASP, CSS, IIS, IIS 8, ASP.NET (6 years), ASP.NET Core (4 years), C# (10+ years), Linq, NET