Full Stack Ecommerce Developer Full Stack Ecommerce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Ecommerce Developer - Tiege Hanley Chicago, IL ? Extensive experience in PHP Technology, HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, Content Management System, LAMP technology, WAMP,XAMPP technology and MVCFramework.  ? Experience with database SQL development and excellent knowledge working with relational database systems such as MySQL, Oracle.  ? Working experience with setup & use of version control systems like SVN, GIT, CVS.  ? Experience in using various tools and IDEs for development and design like Visual Studio.  ? Experience on code responsive designs using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and similar frameworks.  ? Experienced Developer with exceptionally good in Unix Shell Script, Solaris, Linux, bash and experienced in automation shell scripting.  ? Experience in developing UI applications using JQuery, and AJAX, AngularJS.  ? Worked on Zendmodule development and customization.  ? Implemented Bootstrap to make sure that the website was compatible on all of the operating systems such as Linux PHP Laravel.  ? Good experience in TFS Automation Build and deployment.  ? Excellent experience in publishing domain related web applications.  ? Laravel views are designed with Vuejs framework and blade templating engine.  ? Involved in designing and building the MySQL database in Laravel.  ? Experience in Apache web server administration/configuration.  ? Excellent Experience in building PHPApps using MVC Architecture.  ? Ability to develop unique, cutting-edge applications and troubleshoot issues for different handset and user requirements in PHP.  ? Project Planning, arrange of the customer project management tool, with times, deadlines and effort that would be required for each iteration, running on agile methodologies.  ? Working in the Agile/Scrum development environment with frequently changing requirements and actively participated in scrum meetings and reviews.  ? Worked extensively in application Software Analysis, Design, Development, and testing.  ? Report Generation, Unit testing using PHP Unit, System, Integration and Performance testing of the application and its components.  ? Excellent procedural skills and improving Object Oriented skills.  ? Proficiency in Prototype, Module Design, User Interface Design, and Integration of PHP components.  ? Designing skills to design web site, page layouts, email newsletters.  ? Solid Experience in end-to-end lifecycle of PHP based implementations. Work Experience Full Stack Ecommerce Developer Tiege Hanley - Chicago, IL June 2019 to Present Responsibilities:    ? Responsible for all technical aspects of our Shopify-based E-commerce website  ? Develop reliable, modern and robust customizations  ? Connect current and future integrations via APIs  ? Progress our custom, Laravel-based customer dashboard and internal metrics app  ? Capture and organize all of our growing customer and business data, and enable our analyst and business team to better understand our customers and subscription business  ? Work with and gain intimate knowledge for our reoccurring third-party payment processing system  ? Ensure the website is operational and fully functional 24/7/365  ? Working with Vue js, JavaScript in project  ? Worked with shopify admin panel and with liquid files for creating new modules, addons in the website.  ? Working with zend desk integration in project with inquiry page.  ? Working with java script and vue for creating custom scripts in the modules and take part in bug fixing in currently running website.  ? Take part in creating data dictionary and in database design to help data engineer to build data warehouse. PHP Developer Blue cross blue shield, NC August 2018 to May 2019 Responsibilities:    ? Dynamic web site design and developing using PHP, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Jquery, AJAX.  ? Developed PHP back end for both CMS based sites and non-CMS based sites.  ? Built executive dashboard using PHP and MySQL that displays near-real time sales and production data to executive team.  ? Custom CMS/CRM, Admin dashboards, report generation, development using the Laravel Framework.  ? Installed and updated existing payment processor packages with Composer on LAMP server via SSH.  ? Designed and Developed navien using CodeIgniter and stackmicros using Slim, PHP-DI and Doctrine.  ? Analysing and repairing compromised (virus-infected, hacked) WordPress websites  ? Migrating and cloning large WordPress sites modified to accommodate new client specifications, testing new releases to assure compliance and non-breakage of custom logic.  ? Experience with PHP MVC (Model, View, and Controller) frameworks like Laravel.  ? Provided functionality for numerous web pages in the web app application such as login, register, and update user.  ? Wrote backend PHP code whenever required using Laravel framework.  ? Designed Single page web applications object-oriented JavaScript Framework like AngularJS  ? Developed data access module, wrote queries through built-in query builder in Laravel 5 framework.  ? Part of the agile software development methodology team meet-ups.  ? Built PHP applications to meet product requirements and satisfy use cases using MVC architecture, Laravel Framework  ? Maintaining custom enterprise level ERP platform based on detailed functional specifications.  ? Managing day-to-day tickets, issues and enhancements and ensure work is correctly prioritized and completed on time.  ? Proficient in developing applications using PHP MVC design patterns and frameworks like Sonic, Code Ignitor, Zend and People Aggregator.  ? Created React components, using Redux for unidirectional data flow.  ? Implemented Redux for multi-source state resolution to manage user code input, attribute control input and data input.  ? Experienced in implementing OOO JavaScript MVC, CSS3, HTML5 applications using libraries - DOJO, Ext JS, Ember JS, JQuery and Bootstrap etc.  ? Implemented Single Page Application (SPA) Pattern and used Angular JS MVC to build a cross-browser application.  ? Developed automation test cases using Java and Junit on Eclipse application.  ? Using PostgresSQL tool for querying the Database.  ? Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design.  ? Developed API Gateway and Restful Webservices using Node.js, MongoDB, Express JS.  ? Expert in writing test cases in PHPStorm and JavaScript using the latest frameworks like Codeception, PHPUnit and jasmine.  ? Configuring web server for all pages (NGINX).  ? Used GITLAB Version control tools to manage source repository.  ? Expert in writing test cases in PHP and JavaScript using the latest frameworks like Codeception, PHPUnit and jasmine.  ? Wrote JUnits, Spock/geb, Selenium test scripts for unit & integration testing.  ? Responsible for configuring Continuous Integration Server i.e. Jenkins and SonarQube.  ? Used Chrome Developer Tools to inspect and diagnose HTML, CSS and JavaScript bugs quickly and efficiently.  ? Followed Agile development software methodologies and SCRUM.  ? Implemented Upload Gallery System using Amazon AWSS3 service to maintain large amount of automotive dealer's inventory images and files.  ? Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub  ? Used Docker container system with kubernetes integration.  ? Used Apache Shiro security implementation, for authentication and authorization, for all the request received by XML and Rest Gateway controllers.  ? Coding and Documenting the application from Low level Design to integration with web service using html, JSP, JQuery.EXTJS, JSON  ? Performed CSV import to migrate remedy issues to Jira.  ? Used AWS cloud services to launch Linux and windows machines, created security groups and written basic PowerShell scripts to take backups and mount network shared drives. PHP Developer Uniphy Health, Jersey January 2018 to May 2018 Responsibilities:    ? Enhanced and maintained optimizing sites for usability, search engines and accessibility, and updated existing sites and content management systems.  ? Implemented and configured on-line payments gateways, Affiliate management system, CMS referrals system, Credit Card Processing, User Authentication, Content Management, Account Maintenance, and Site Administration.  ? Developed the web applications using AngularJS  ? Designed and developed of modules of web-based applications using LAMP technology. Wrote PHP codes to interact with the third party JSON services to provide an easy to configure web service server interface.  ? Involved in designing and building the MySQL database in Laravel.  ? Performed code debugging of JavaScript and HTML code with Firefox Firebug and Google chrome using JavaScript debugger.  ? Developed data access module, wrote queries through built-in query builder in Laravel 5 framework.  ? Developed an efficient Administration module to manage the portal dynamically.  ? Adopted a cross browser and cross platform approach to make the website more versatile and supportive.  ? Enhanced client website by building a responsive website with Bootstrap, AngularJS, EF and Azure from Pluralsight.  ? Customized dashboard development for accessing easy user interface using front end tools such as Ajax, JQuery, and JavaScript etc.  ? Designed and developed custom modules for implementing REST API.  ? Developed a set of Key Sales Performance Initiatives while initiating the implementation of SUGARCRM software to effectively track them.  ? Worked with Email Service Providers, email marketing and HTML email coding. Wordpress theme and template files using HTML, CSS, PHP, and Bootstrap 3 framework.  ? Created an internal browser-based text editor using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Require.js, and Backbone.js.  ? Performed functions related to network administration to ensure enhancements and programming related to current technologies perform adequately.  ? Enhanced and maintained optimizing sites for usability, search engines and accessibility, and updated existing sites and content management systems.  ? Implemented and configured on-line payments gateways, Affiliate management system, CMS referrals system, Credit Card Processing, User Authentication, Content Management, Account Maintenance, and Site Administration.  ? Designed and developed of modules of web-based applications using LAMP technology. Wrote PHP codes to interact with the third party JSON services to provide an easy to configure web service server interface.  ? Performed code debugging of JavaScript and HTML code with Firefox Firebug and Google chrome using JavaScript debugger.  ? Provided assistance, as needed, to Instructor Designers for the conversion of content to the current SCORM package for integration with the LMS.  ? Developed mechanisms to provide reports on user and course data by creating scripts to analyze database for each term.  ? Used JavaScript functions for an easy to access in modules designing and maintenance.  ? Helping on a virtual community for the supervisor track using WordPress.  ? Provided support and troubleshoot web products used by faculty and staff to maintain their websites. PHP Developer Synoverge Technology Private Limited July 2016 to July 2017 India  Responsibilities:    ? Synoverge Technologies is a next generation Technology Consulting Company focused on Enterprise  ? Collaboration & Technology Transformation Services.  ? Synoverge helps clients harness the power of disruptive technologies such as Portals, Enterprise  ? Mobility, Cloud Computing and Analytics in an integrated manner to bring-in much sought-after Business - IT alignment.  ? The project was about designing and maintaining websites through which they provide past, present and future information to farmers regarding profitable levels. Also created and executed strategies for farmers to reduce risks  ? Using this website customers can do marketing plans as well.  ? Analyzed the requirement and developed technical documentation - IAD and SRS, etc.  ? Experienced in development with Agile Management methods.  ? Wrote various PHP scripts in the header, footer, multiple contact pages, etc.  ? Optimized web pages in Mozilla Firefox & IE 7/8 to detect errors.  ? Built the Application using the CodeIgniter Framework.  ? Wrote Restful API for Android and iPhone.  ? Used phpMyAdmin to handle the administration of MySQL over the World Wide Web.  ? Wrote SQL queries to fetch and store the data using MySQL database.  ? Experienced with infrastructure tooling like Sonar.  ? Developed custom bash scripts to deploy code from Git repository onto stage and production servers.  ? Peer code review of the development actions as well as test case review of the test cases created by QA.  ? Implemented the Mobile applications integration for iPhone and Black berry with single sign on.  ? Integrated the Domino server with SiteMinder Domino Agents for SSO.  ? Designed and developed of modules of web-based applications using LAMP technology. Wrote PHP codes to interact with the third party JSON services to provide an easy to configure web service server interface.  ? Configured Apache Server and PHP Scripting Engine and MySQL Database Server  ? Designed, Developed, and Maintained Web sites with PHP, MySQL, CSS, HTML, DHTML, and JavaScript  ? Used HTML/DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX to produce high performance, rich and user-friendly Web interface  ? Maintained web applications and e-commerce web sites within a LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment that includes distributed web servers and a MySQL database cluster.  ? Writing scripts using XML language  ? Designed User Interface, Coded Functionality and performed Unit Testing.  ? Developed a user friendly secondary back end to update and maintain multiple Magento e-commerce installs using PHP, CSS, HTML, MYSQL and MSSQL.  ? Developed MVC based applications using Code igniter Framework.  ? Write/modify/maintain Magento extensions. Written scripts to update inventory, pictures, pricing, addresses, and other product related data.  ? Used PHP Zend framework 2 for implementing the MVC structure.  ? Used HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery on client side.  ? Creating/Updating/Removing/Backing up/Restoring MySQL databases from command line. Data migration during platform changes.  ? Interacting with QA teams to review and develop data standards, data exchange, XML data standard, and data sharing model.  ? Created News section for the latest updated customers and clients.  ? Created Queries and Tables using MySQL.  ? Created Web Application using PHP and SQL for UPS Shipping Integration.  ? Involved in release into Production, Development, QA, and Staging.  ? Worked in Agile based environment with daily scrum calls and coordination with the offshore team.  ? Developed, implemented and performed Unit testing using Junit. Web Developer Codal System Limited May 2013 to June 2016 India  Responsibilities:    ? Codal is a UX design and development agency with a focus on blending an Agile process with the Latest technologies. Based in the heart of Chicago, Codal has a knack for bringing out the best in every brand that we work with. With more than 9 years of IT business expertise.  ? The projects in Codal was LAMP full-stack development. My work scope was mainly to documentation, analysis in projects and coding using frameworks. Each project had front-end and back-end development. Video uploading, user management, task management and booking Management system was also used in project. Created Web Services in mobile application projects.  ? Involved in software development life cycle.  ? Involved in developing design specifications, website architecture and web application based on the  ? Provided functional and requirements and design layout.  ? Worked with Linux operating system.  ? Involved in documentation, client communication, coding and deployment of websites.  ? Wrote JavaScript for the client-side and server-side validations.  ? Involved in the PHP code writing and API integration.  ? Involved in the JavaScript client-side for improvising the user interface.  ? Managed Git updates for server using Linux commands.  ? Managed different staging and production server for system.  ? Managed the Linux server and configure cron jobs.  ? Managed the Linux server and configured Apache, PHP and Mysql. Deployed in Linux Server.  ? Used Laravel and CodeIgniter frameworks.  ? Developed PHP based server-side API using CodeIgniter and implemented in MVC architecture.  ? Involved in database design and implemented in MySQL.  ? Involved in the team meeting and client communication by email, Skype.  ? Involved in testing the usability of the application.  ? Involved in writing test cases.  ? Involved in maintaining and debugging the application.  ? Used Jira for defect tracking and project and sprint management.  ? Used third party API for video configuration in front end of website and from backend admin can manage videos.  ? User management & booking system using CodeIgniter and Angularjs.  ? Used JavaScript, jQuery for user interactions in pages.  ? Created web back-end user interfaces to new and existing databases utilizing PHP and MySQL databases.  ? Customized WordPress plugins and built new custom plugins.  ? Primary focus on website design and development, specializing in custom WordPress themes.  ? Built AJAX pages using PHP and created various asynchronous web applications Education Bachelors in Computer Science South Gujarat University Masters in Computer Science in Computer Science DOEACC Skills Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, Api, Html, Javascript, Json, Php, Codeigniter, Laravel, Symfony, Scripting, Svn, Visio, Xml, Ajax, Css, Dhtml, Dreamweaver, Iis, Web server Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Scripting Languages PHP 4/5.5,7, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JavaScript, Flash9, , JQuery 1.2, PHP, XML, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Jquery  CMS Tools WordPress  Framework and Tools MVC Framework, Cake PHP, Codeigniter , Laravel, Symfony  Web Technologies JavaScript, CSS, AJAX, HTML, DHTML, XML, JSON, JQuery, DOM, Vue js, Angular  Databases MySQL4/5[PHPMYADMIN], MS Access, Oracle 8i, MS-Access, Postgresql, SQLite  Application/ Web Servers Apache Web Server, IIS ,ZEND server , yii  Operating Systems Linux [Ubuntu, Unix, Windows], Pick basic  IDE Tools  Adobe Dreamweaver, InDesign, Photoshop, Eclipse, Microsoft Visual Studio, Zend Studio, IBM Rational Application Developer Studio, Zend Studio    Modelling Tools MS Visio  Web Services WSDL, XML, SOAP, UDDI, API, BPM  E-commerce Shopify  Version control system Github , Gitkraken , SVN  Project management tools JIRA , Asana