Web Developer, Senior Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>, Senior <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Web Developer Orlando, FL Senior software developer currently working on an online training management system that runs on .NET with a C# codebase that uses Microsoft SQL Server as its database backend. Self-motivated individual who has been writing code for over 20 years. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer, Senior Web Developer General Dynamics - Orlando, FL 2012 to Present Develop and implement software to meet capability requirements by the United States Army  Reserves for use in their ARTATS (Army Reserve Training and Tracking System) module inside of the Army's Digit Training Management System (DTMS). Sustain current capabilities by generating  error reports, streamlining/improving software, and modifying database stored procedures. Developed a report for the field that was estimated to save an average of 200 man-hours of manual data gathering and compilation each month. Work efficiently with the Business Analyst to quickly customize ARTATS functions, troubleshoot and correct errors and bugs, and optimize the user experience. Advise stakeholders as a technical consultant about customer requirements, technically feasible options, and timeline estimations. Document code updates. Serve as a secure code analyst to ensure that the ARTATS module is compliant with the latest DoD STIG (Security Technical Implementation Guide). The software was developed on ASP. Net 4.0 with a C# codebase and used a Microsoft SQL Server database. Webmaster University of Central Florida - Orlando, FL 2011 to 2012 Managed content updates for the website written in PHP belonging to First Year Advising and Exploration. Developed and implemented an XML based news feed and archive so the site could pull those updates from a simple XML file and display them on the page. Developed a web based tool that can be used to edit the XML file with new data. Assisted with the creation of flyers, posters and videos for use by First Year Advising. Software Technician SAIC 2007 to 2008 Debugged and coded new functionality for the projects internal website written in PHP and Perl  using a MySql database. Provided computer hardware maintenance and help desk support. Modified an open-source, off the shelve, web application that was used to automatically detect hardware devices on the network and log information about them to allow the company to manually input information about devices that, for security reasons, could not be on the network or were behind firewalls that disabled the software from working correctly. Network Technician, Computer Programmer Women's Center For Radiology - Orlando, FL 2006 to 2007 Provided technical support to nearly every electronic device located in the building. Developed  a small scale C# application to assist in tracking MRI patients. Maintained the company's internal  website. Developed for the internal website an network usage monitor. Responsible for keeping all  computers up to date with security updates and for maintaining, storing, and running daily backups of data on servers. Hired for a short internship required for college credit in 2011 to maintain software I had previously created. Developed an XML file and implemented into the company's internal website a feature that would build a Javascript based menu of external links from this file, allowed the IT director to add, remove, and edit links inside the XML file and not to have to edit any HTML or Javascript. Education Bachelor's in Interactive Systems, Minor in Computer Programming University of Central Florida - Orlando, FL Additional Information Skills & Expertise  Languages and Frameworks: .NET, ASP, BASIC, C, C++, C#, CSS, HTML, Java,  Javascript, PHP, SQL, Visual Basic, XML    Development Environments: Command Line Compilers, Dreamweaver, Eclipse, Flash, Microsoft SQL Server, MS Access, MySQL, Notepad++, Visual Studio    Concepts and Other Skills: Debugging, Literate Programming, Object Oriented  Programming, Prototyping, Relational Database Design, Secure Coding, Software Architecture,  SOLID Principles, Test Driven Development and Testing, Usability and UX Design