Sr. MuleSoft Developer Sr. MuleSoft <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. MuleSoft Developer - USPTO Austin, TX • 7+ Years of experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) that includes Requirements Gathering, Analysis, Design, Implementation, Maintenance and Testing using various methodologies using MuleSoft ESB and Java/J2EE experience in integration.  • 4+ Years Mule ESB experience with implementing service-oriented architecture (SOA) and enterprise application integration (EAI) using Mule Server 3.x.  • Implemented Mule flows for different modules, which process files and emails from different systems. Developed Mule ESB projects for the services with synchronous and asynchronous mule flows.  • Developed application in Anypoint studio 5.4.3 IDE and used RAML 1.0 for generating Raml files.  • Used Eclipse & Tomcat server as development environment.  • Extensively participated in deployment of Mule ESB applications using Cloud Hub and Strong experience in Integration using Mule ESB in integrating various third party solutions.  • Strong application integration experience using Mule ESB with Connectors, transformations, Routing, AnypointMQ, JMS.  • Strong application integration experience using Mule ESB with Connectors, transformations, Routing, ActiveMQ , JMS and RabbitMQ. Data Transformations using Mule ESB.  • Developed interfaces between Sales Force, REST and SOAP web-services.  • Proficient with Anypoint Studio and Mule Integration Platform, used it to interface applications, services, utilizing message routing, data transformation and service creation utilities.  • Experienced in Rest Web Service development for both Xml and Json datatypes using Advanced Rest Client.  • Experience in integrating Cloud applications like SFDC, Workday, and Intract using Mule ESB and any studio point for these sources.  • Possess fair knowledge on SOA and REST architectural style and design principles.Created Mule ESB based tooling suite for handling message transitioning, validation, enrichment and routing to upstream and downstream entity data consumers.  • Worked on multiple Operating Systems like NT/9x/2000/XP/Vista/7/8/10, UNIX and Red Hat Linux.  • Deployed web services are tested using SOAPUI tool and Extensively used data weave expressions for transformations in Data weave.  • Used Mule Data Mapper, Custom transformers for mapping flat file structures to Sales force interface structures (Java / POJO objects).  • Used Database & Sales force Connectors to connect with respective systems using Mule ESB.  • Worked on XML technologies like XML,XSD and Web Services - RESTful and SOAP.  • Effective communication and interpersonal skills, ability to work in team/independently and adapt quickly to new and emerging technologies. Work Experience Sr. MuleSoft Developer USPTO - Alexandria, VA September 2017 to Present The United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) is an agency in the U.S. Department of Commerce that issues patents to inventors and businesses for their inventions, and trademark registration for product and intellectual property identification.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Agile - Sprint methodologies to do requirements gathering, analysis and planning. Involved in gathering requirements from existing functionality for the custodians.  • Involved in Design, Development, Testing and Integration of the application and prepared User stories corresponding to the features taken from Backlog.  • Mapped data from JSON to XML and vice-versa using Data weaver and Data mapper and configured the transformers in Mule XML Configuration file.  • Worked on JMS, AnypointMQ and configured exception strategies in order to avoid error handlers.  • Created REST services using RAML and Worked on Cloud Hub and Any point platform.  • Created HTTP inbound & outbound flows, routing, orchestration, transformations and Security of Mule ESB application using Basic Auth.  • Used Integration of Mule ESB system while utilizing AnypointMQ, HTTP, File system and SFTP transports.  • Used AMQP Endpoints to connect to RabbitMQ which is a messaging queue.  • Deployed application in UNIX and to connect to see logs for fixing UAT/Production defects.  • Developing Mule ESB projects for the services with synchronous and asynchronous mule flows.  • Developed Mule flows to integrate Data from various sources into Database, from AnypointMQ topics and queues; some transformations were also done at the integration layer.  • Utilized Mule Data Mapper, Custom transformers for mapping flat file structures to Salesforce interface structures.  • Developed web services by using Restful API and Implemented Message Driven beans to develop the asynchronous mechanism to invoke the provisioning system when a new service request saved in the database used JSM for this.  • Worked heavily on JUnit test cases using mocking frameworks like Easy Mock and Mockito  • Used Mule ESB in designing the application as a middleware between the third party system and the end system.  • Implemented transformations on mule payload and Worked on serialize and de-serialize of data in applications using JSON.  • Configured security for web services using SSL and OAuth and created the MULE ESB artifacts, created flows and configured the MULE configuration files and deployed the application  • Extensively used Mule components that include, File, Sales force SMTP Connector, and Transaction Manager.    Environment: Mule Soft Any point Studio, Mule ESB, Database Connector, Salesforce, JMS, MySQL, XML, Files, Cloud Hub, UNIX, Windows7, GIT Sr. MuleSoft Developer PWC - Tampa, FL June 2015 to August 2017 PWC LLC, known as Price Water Cooper house, is an American Auditing and Tax Services company specializing in audit deliverable.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the development of Solution Design Overview document and designed the data validation integration interfaces for various projects.  • Created various RAML resources to implement REST Based APIs as a part of project implementation.  • Managed the whole API lifecycle from design to sharing using Restful API Modeling Language (RAML).  • Used polling process and watermark to synchronize data in various applications and determined the process strategy for the designed flow, based on pattern.  • Integrating the salesforce with MuleSoft for connecting applications, data sources and APIs with cloud  • Utilized various connectors such as Salesforce, FTP, HTTP, File, SMTP, SFTP, Quartz, JMS and Database in different workflows.  • Enabling different security authentication mechanisms across mongo instances.  • Used Mule Data Mapper, Custom transformers for mapping level record structures to Salesforce interface structures.  • Integrated MongoDB with Mule ESB using MongoDB connector  • Implemented AVS web service to do the validations on address and send back the suggested address back to the front-end systems.  • Configured push topics on Salesforce application and monitored them for events to occur at Mule ESB flow and implemented aggregation and dynamic routing using Mule ESB.  • Developed interfaces between Salesforce and Oracle ERP using Informatica cloud/ Mule ESB technologies.  • Configured Apache Maven 3.3.9 and generated POM file with all the dependencies, which are required in the project.  • Implementation of Mule Secure Token Service (STS) OAuth to mule Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) implementations and web services.    Project: Aura  • Integrating the Account Data sent from Hybris to the Down Stream systems for two different Data Base systems and also to Workday HCM using Anypoint MQ.  • Intensively used choice router and wrote MEL Expressions in order to route the mule messages in to different flows.  • Implementing the Data weave for conversion of data and also to handle some filter logics.  • Involved in managing and deployment of the applications in the Cloud Hub and also tested SOAP web services using Soap UI and done with in peer and lead level design/code reviews.  • Integrated mulesoft with workday HCM Developed an Email-Notification Service to send the Error notifications as an Email and Payload as an attachment.  • Integrated MongoDB with Mule ESB using MongoDB connector  • Tightly integrated the Mule ESB with different application integrations. Experience in integrating Cloud applications like SFDC, Workday, and Intacct using Mule ESB.  • Integrating the sales force with MuleSoft for connecting applications, data sources and APIs with cloud.  • Develop XML schemas and WSDL for development of WSDL first provider web services  • Developed web services by using Restful API and Implemented Message Driven beans to develop the asynchronous mechanism to invoke the provisioning system when a new service request saved in the database used Anypoint MQ for this.  • Handling the Exceptions using Mule Exception strategies like Catch and Choice Exception Strategy based on the requirement of the flow.  • Developed Mule flows to integrate Data from various sources into Database from AnypointMQ topics and queues and also some transformations were also done at the integration layer.  • Worked with Mule ESB 3.8.0 and migrated Mule ESB 3.7.1 apps to Mule ESB 3.8.1.  • Developed an Integration Component with third party application using Mule ESB and Experience in integrating Cloud applications like SFDC.  • Have integrated web services including SOAP as well as REST using Mule ESB and Worked with QA team to validate test cases whether test cases meeting business Requirements or not.    Environment: Mulesoft Any point Studio, Cloud hub, Any Point Platform, RAML, Connectors, APIKIT Router, Data mapper, Data weave, Sales Force, Windows 2003, Mongo DB, SQL and MSSQL. Mule ESB /Java Web Developer Deloitte Hyderabad, IN - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2013 to May 2015 Deloitte is one of the "Big Four" accounting firms and the largest professional services network in the world by revenue and number of professionals. Deloitte provides audit, tax, consulting, enterprise risk and financial advisory services with more than 244,400 professionals globally Deloitte is the 6th-largest privately owned organization in the United States.    Responsibilities:  • Developed a new application which connects to the client database and interacts with the existing file mover application and process the transfer of files from Peoplesoft system to third party system.  • Involved in creating High Level Design document (HLD) with Use Case Diagram, low level document (LLD) with Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams using MS Visio.  • Implemented SOAP/RESTful web services in JSON format  • Designed REST APIs that allow sophisticated, effective and low cost application integration  • Configured local Maven repositories and multi-component Ant projects with Git repositories and scheduled projects in Jenkins for continuous integration  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Developed the front end user interfaces using Struts tags, JSP and HTML5 and wrote SQL queries.  • Modified the Java classes to eliminate the EJB interface with the web service method generated using JAX-WS  • Facilitated agile development process in the company including requirements and design processes  • Established JDBC connection to retrieve the customer details and transactions list from database.  • Used HTML , CSS, JSP for GUI and GO Lang for both Client-side and Server-side validations  • Used Axis and Jersey frameworks for creating the SOAP and RESTful web services.  • Used encryption algorithms to encrypt the fields in the environment properties.  • Utilized integration Patterns, integration tools, EAI, Transformations, XML Schemas, and XSLT and Tested the application functionality in development and non-production environments to Use Quartz connector to schedule the batch jobs.  • Strong knowledge and hands on experience in documenting and designing REST API's using RAML File.    Environment: Any point Studio 5.4.0, Oracle-SQL, ActiveMQ, Java, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache-Maven 3.3.3, Log4j, Nexus, FileZilla, Putty, Windows 7, GIT, JIRA, Confluence. Java/ Web Services Developer Apollo Health Street Hyderabad, IN - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2010 to December 2012 Apollo Health Street Ltd. provides financial services to the healthcare industry. The Company offers services related to patient admission, charge capture, claims processing, and receivables management. Apollo Health Street serves customers worldwide.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in preparing the Test Plans for testing to be carried out effectively.  • Developed the core modules for the services by using n- tier architecture.  • Analyzed the GAP documents to created Test Scenarios and Test Cases.  • Configured Hibernate Struts and Tiles related XML files.  • Developed XML Web Services using SOAP, WSDL, and UDDI.  • Developed the application using Struts Framework that uses Model View Controller (MVC) architecture with JSP as the view.  • Developed presentation layer using JSP, Servlets, HTML, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Extensively used Spring IOC for Dependency Injection and worked on Custom MVC Frameworks loosely based on Struts 2.  • Perform Transformation, Guaranteed Delivery, Message Sequencing, Batch Message processing, error handling and reconciliation mechanisms.  • Developed RAML based REST web services for Adhoc UMP Service, consumed both REST and SOAP web services and tested web services using ARC tool and SOAP UI  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Spring Framework including JSP, Servlets, EJB, Form Bean and Action classes  • Used JAXB to parse XML and Data stage to generate file to be sent to the backend team.  • Worked on Oracle database and used OpenJPA as the persistence framework and developed unit test cases using Junit and Easy mock Framework.  • Used ANT and Maven to build the applications and used RTC for source control and version management  • Integration tested the different types services Modules completely.  • Tested transactions created electronically through message injection using JMS.  • Used Java Swing for modifying web applications in the legacy systems  • Worked on single transactions as well as bulk transactions such as Processing using Custom MVC framework.  • Used JDBC to connect with DB2 database.  • Effective execution of the prepared Test Cases.  • Involved in writing SQL queries & PL SQL- Stored procedures & functions.  • Used separate rules to do business validation.  • Involved in fixing QA, UAT and production defects and tracked them using QC.  • Involved in unit testing JUNIT and in integration testing.    Environment: JAVA, J2EE, Swing, Ant, JDBC, JMS. Education Bachelors in Commerce computers Osmania university Skills REST (8 years), WEB SERVICES (8 years), XML (8 years), ORACLE (7 years), SOAP (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages-Java, C, SQL, MS SQL  Core Java Concepts-Collections, Generics, Multithreading, Serialization, Exception Handling  Design and Modeling -UML, Rational Rose, Microsoft Visio  Web Services-SOAP, WSDL  Web Application Servers-Apache Tomcat  Operating Systems-Windows 2000/XP/7, MAC  Databases-SQL Server 2012/2010/2008, Mongo DB  Messaging Systems-JMS, VM Queues  XML technologies-XML, XSD  Protocols-SOAP, HTTP, HTTPS, SMTP, REST  SVN Tools-GIT, Bit Bucket  Tools-MUnit  ESB-Mule ESB, Oracle ESB