UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - Department of Transportation (MA) Scottsdale, AZ • 7 years of experience in the Software Analysis, Design, Development, Integration, Implementation, Maintenance, Debugging.  • Had working experience especially in Microsoft technologies in various domains like Banking, Accounting domains.  • Designed and maintained front-end page layout using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and Angular 2/4/5, ReactJs.  • Used JavaScript to handle the basic logics and bind the Event Handlers.  • Used HTML5 Form Validation, Type and Attributes Restrictions to validate the client inputs.  • Expertise on designing web pages using Responsive CSS Design, JQuery UI and Bootstrap.  • Supported Single Page Applications when client changed his query condition using Angular which includes Routing, Directives and Templates and with React Flux architecture.  • Expertise in designing and developing user interface using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JQuery, and JavaScript.  • Experience in using React JS components and Flux concept, Router, Redux, Animations, Forms, Events, Keys.  • Build REST web service by using ASP.Net core in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front-end.  • Expertise in working with Angular 2/4/5.Good knowledge in working with Angular UI Bootstrap.  • Worked extensively with Iterative Agile Methodologies (SCRUM), Waterfall methodologies and Test-driven development (TDD).  • Expert working knowledge of Microsoft Ajax Libraries, Ajax Control Tool Kit.  • Ability to work in all stages of System Development Life Cycle.  • Ability to take and give directions, instructions and provide assistance through completion of tasks.  • Ability to work under minimal supervision, adhere to deadlines, excellent verbal and communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Developer Department of Transportation (MA) - San Francisco, CA January 2018 to Present Responsibilities  • Developed the application using Angular 4/5, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, WebAPI and Bootstrap.  • Developed complex nested Angular components for reuse.  • Developed page layouts, navigation, animation buttons and icons.  • Implemented components with various life cycle hooks such as ngOnInit, ngOnChanges, ngAfterViewInit, ngOnDestroy.  • Created Angular features modules to take advantage of lazy loading and preloading features for better performance.  • Used Bootstrap to Style the web pages and make the application responsive.  • User Angular Http Interceptors to transform the requests.  • Used Observables to build Angular services.  • Performed form validations using reactive forms from Angular framework.  • Used Gulp as the build task runner to build and package the application.  • Created Custom Directives using Angular2.  • Implemented Angular Router to enable navigation from one component to another  • Implemented @Input and @Output for transferring data between child and parent components.  • Implemented HTTP requests using RxJS Observable library to handle multiple values over time.  • Implemented Guards for canActivate, CanDeactivate when user tries to navigate from one route to a different route.  • Used ngModel to achieve two-way binding and using ngIf to display the error messages.  • Implemented Pipes to filter the data before displaying it to user.  • Created reusable services and used them in different component using Angular Dependency injection  • Created custom validators and used them in Angular Forms.  • Extensively worked on Entity Framework Core.  • Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Developed the application using various patterns including Singleton and Dependency Injection.  • Worked on creating Restful API using ASP.NET Web API and C#.  • Consumed RESTFUL Web Services using Angular HTTP Module.  • Used Swagger and PostMan for documenting, developing and testing the RESTful API's.  • Extensively worked with making calls to REST APIs to fetch the data from the back end as JSON response.  • Developed React UI and architecture. Building components library including Slide-View, Table Grid and Tree.  • Implemented flux pattern by using redux framework as a core dependency. Used React flux to polish the data and for single directional flow.  • Participated in Agile practices like Daily Scrums.  • Used Jasmine and Karma to test the Angular components.    Environment: Asp.net Core, Entity Framework , HTML5, CSS3, TypeScript, Angular 4/5,NodeJs, ReactJs, Redux Flux, Angular CLI, Gulp, CSS, WEB API, JavaScript, Bootstrap, REST, JSON, Jasmine, TFS, GIT, PostMan ,Visual Studio, SQL Server. Angular/ Web Developer University Of Houston - Clear Lake, TX November 2016 to December 2017 Student E-mail Automation System    Responsibilities  • Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  • Involved in creating UI for facility users to report facility status using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Used Angular 2 to make the HTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Developed the application for responsiveness to different screen resolutions using Bootstrap and CSS media queries.  • Developed a prototype for a web application using Angular 2.  • Actively Participated in Team Meetings, frequently communicated with Business Analysts to clarify the business requirements.  • Performed form validations using reactive forms from Angular 2 framework.  • Developed Custom Directives using Angular2.  • Implemented Angular Router to enable navigation from one component to another  • Used @Input and @Output for transferring data between child and parent components.  • Implemented Pipes to filter the data before displaying it to user.  • Implemented HTTP requests using RxJS Observable library to handle multiple values over time.  • Implemented Guards like canActivate, canDeactivate when user tries to navigate from one route to a different route.  • Used ngModel to achieve two-way binding and using ngIf to display the error messages  • Created reusable services and used them in different component using Angular 2 Dependency injection  • Created custom validators and used them in Angular Forms.  • Consume the REST services using Node-JS to serve the web application with JSON data.  • Used Postman to test the API workflow tested on the JSON files which are generated by the NodeJS.  • Consumed RESTFUL Web Services using Angular2 HTTP Module.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, TypeScript, Angular 2, NodeJs, Angular CLI, WEB API, JQuery, Bootstrap, REST, JSON, Jasmine, TFS, , Swagger, PostMan ,Visual Studio, SQL Server. Web UI Developer Travelers Insurance - Pune, Maharashtra May 2013 to July 2016 Bond MI SQL Host/Development    Responsibilities  • Involved in gathering project requirements from the clients.  • Involved in development/conversion of numerous existing UI screens to Angular JS for the Admin and Task UI modules.  • Contributed to the design and development of mobile software libraries, tools and application.  • Development of custom Angular JS directives, which are used for DOM manipulation along with HTML5 components.  • Designed UI screens using CSS, Angular JS Framework and HTML5.  • Also designed and developed web application using ASP.NET MVC, JavaScript,HTML5, C#, WebAPI respectively.  • Migrated existing application from Silverlight to ASP. NET 4.5.  • Created XHTML Pages with CSS and the Box Model  • Used jQuery plugins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Created Service using REST API.  • Used LINQ to SQL for retrieving the data efficiently.  • Implementation of client side validations using JQuery and ASP.NET MVC Validation implemented at Controller level.  • Changed the waterfall system of the project by doing an extensive presentation on Agile methodology of the project and its characteristics.  • Assisted in developing Tables, Triggers, Views, stored procedures and functions.  • Used CSS and HTML5 in developing web pages.  • Created WCF Service to look up and retrieve the data from database.  • Used JSON for transporting messages.  • Designed and Assisted in the development of several AJAX driven quoting tools to replace existing flash based applications.  • AngularJS was used for routing HTML templates into views in MVC.    Environment: .Net 4.0, ASP.Net MVC 4, C#.Net, Entity Framework, AJAX, HTML5, IIS 6.0, MS Visual Studio 2012, WCF, Angular 1.0, Bootstrap 3.0, JQuery, Java Script, MS SQL Server, SSRS. .NET/UI Developer Travelers Insurance - Pune, Maharashtra June 2011 to April 2013 VB to .NET Migration (Loss Sensitive Pricing)    Responsibilities  • Creating the models, views and controllers using ASP.NET MVC 3, C#.NET, HTML, Java Script, and JQuery.  • Extensively worked on User Interface (views) using CSS, HTML, AJAX, Java Script and Bootstrap.  • Designing the WCF Service based on the requirement and created separate WCF services project which is integrated with BLL.  • Designed and developed views as responsive components using HTML and CSS.  • Developed Business Logic layer by implementing Object Oriented Programming Language (OOPs) features like Inheritance, Polymorphism, Abstraction and Encapsulation in C#.  • Developed Stored Procedures, Tables, Views in MS SQL Server and Teradata Databases  • Used Datatables and jQuery validations plugins for client side operations.  • Involved in developing WPF, WCF service using SOAP/HTTP to communicate with legacy systems and also deployed web services as per business requirements.  • Developed the user document or the user manual which helps the users to understand the tool.  • Extensively used CSS and jQuery to create visually appealing User Interfaces.  • Implemented the above project in Visual Studio 2010 using C#.Net and .Net 3.5  • Followed Test Driven Development (TDD) approach.  • Developed of WCF service using MSMQ Binding.  • Consumed the WCF services using JQuery Ajax calls to enable effective communication  • Performed querying to database using LINQ to SQL and querying to XML files using LINQ to XML.  • Supported the database for daily, weekly and scheduled jobs along with bug fixing and production issues.  • Developed database objects like Tables, Views and Stored procedures in SQL Server 2008.  • Developed reports using SSRS.  • Created stored procedures in PL/SQL to access and edit Oracle database.  • Used MS SQL Server to write Stored Procedures and functions where some of the stored procedures would do a nightly job.  • Prepared unit test cases and performed N-Unit Testing prior to system implementation  • Developed WCF Services to interact with the back end to get the necessary XML data for each email templates.  • Performed and resolved cross-browser issues and Unit Testing.  • Reviewed and modified the code to eliminate design inconsistencies introduced during development cycles and to ensure cross-browser functionality.    Environment: ASP.Net,VB.net MVC 3, C#.Net, ADO.Net, LINQ to SQL, AJAX, HTML, MS Visual Studio 2010, WCF, CSS, SQL Server Management Studio, SSRS and SQL Server 2008. Education Bachelor's Degree in Electronics Anna University Master's Degree in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering University of Houston - Clear Lake, TX