Sr.Net Developer Sr.Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr.Net Developer - Marcel Digital Chicago, IL • .Net Developer with approximately 5+years of IT experience with exceptional skills in Analysis, Design and Development of high scalable n-tier Web Applications, Distributed Applications and Web Services using Microsoft Technologies.  • Proficient in developing application with .NET Framework (1.1/2.0/3.0/3.5/4.0/4.5) and associated technologies, including: as ASP.NET, ASP.NET, C#, ADO.Net, Angular JS, Bootstrap, WPF, WCF and SQL Server 2005/2008/2008 R2 and 2012.  • Extensive experience in web application using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS, that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible.  • Experience in using JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX framework in creating efficient and interactive Web applications.  • Worked on front end web application development using Master Pages, Themes, Skins, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript and ASP.Net Custom Control.  • Extensively worked on HTML/HTML5, XHTML, DHTML and CSS3 to design rich web pages.  • Extensively worked on Queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and Views in SQL Server 2005/2008/2008 R2/2014 and 2012 to access database.  • Experience in AngularJS structural framework for dynamic web apps.  • Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML5, DHTML, table less XHTML, CSS3 and Java Script that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible.  • Highly skilled in web building technologies like HTML (5), DHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, XML and AJAX.  • Experience in developing the applications using AJAX Framework.  • Hands on experience in creating Tables and Views as well as writing Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Cursors, indexes using T-SQL and PL/SQL.  • Experienced in other RDBMS like Oracle (SQL, PL/SQL, Forms, and Reports).  • Expertise in working with Entity Framework.  • Expertise in working with Crystal Reports, SSRS and SSIS.  • Developed applications leveraging ADO.NET, SQL, Entity Framework 4.5.  • Excellent knowledge of developing application using ASP.Net MVC framework to support clean Separation of Concerns and higher testability.  • Worked extensively with Data Adapter, Dataset and Data reader as a part of ADO.NET to access and update database.  • Development, debugging, and unit testing with Visual Studio and Eclipse.  • Developed applications in the past with C, C++, Java.  • Comprehensive software development life-cycle experience with active involvement in requirements gathering, analysis, design, programming, testing and implementation.  • Self-Motivated and a Team player with excellent communication and written skills with exemplary analytical and problem solving skills. Work Experience Sr.Net Developer Marcel Digital - Chicago, IL May 2018 to Present Description: Marcel is a digital marketing agency based in the River North area in, Marcel remains one of the original and most well established digital marketing firms in the United States.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering and preparing the requirements from clients for Report IQ design and enhancements.  • Responsible for Designing, Coding, Developing and implementing Report IQ application using ASP.NET MVC, C#, jQuery, Angular JS, ASP.NET and SSRS.  • Implemented functionality of dynamically generated reports using C#, jQuery, Angular JS, ASP.NET and SSRS.  • Developed dynamic ASPX web pages for Application using ASP.NET, C#.NET, XML, HTML, JavaScript.  • Implemented OPS Portal to monitor reports activity and applications support using C#, AngularJS  • Experience developing Single Page Web Applications using Angular JS, Node JS.  • Implemented Business OPS Portal for the business users to monitor reports delivery activity as well as cloning and transferring reports from one user to another user.  • Experience with various MVC Java frameworks like Angular.js, Node.JS, bootstrap.JS, require .JS and Responsive Web Design.  • Extensively used Angular JS on front end. Utilized the Angular JS directives, factory, service and filters. Created a number of custom directives to reuse them across the application.  • Created Data Dictionary for the report columns analysis using C#, ASP.NET MVC, AngularJS  • Created various tools for deploying reports and re-run the reports through OPS portal using C#, AngularJS.  • Developed High Level Design, Class diagrams for the modules that are coded.  • Involved in Bug fixing and functionality enhancements.  • Supporting offshore resources issues and conducting periodic training sessions.  • Unit testing on every new version before sending it for User Acceptance Test (UAT).  • Undertaking planning/resource facilitation and building/deployment of the applications to get new functionalities rolling into for the users.  • Research new technologies and enhancements to improve upon existing architecture for more user friendly experience and improved data delivery. NET Developer HCL America - Cincinnati, OH June 2017 to April 2018 Description: HCL America opened its first office in, recognizing the United States as a market filled with an entrepreneurial spirit, creativity, and unique talent. HCL has partnered with forward-looking American companies to solve a wide array of technology challenges and create new business opportunities and thousands of jobs. Together with its clients and partners,  Responsibilities:  • Worked with Business Analysts in understanding business requirements and analyzing user stories.  • Identify user stories and break them down into logical tasks and estimate them.  • Developed web application using C#, Bootstrap and AngularJS.  • Created custom directives for reusable components in AngularJS.  • Implemented AngularJS Controllers to maintain each view data and made service calls in service class.  • Used Angular4 Reactive forms to implement complex forms and performed the validations using Form Builder.  • Created Single Page Application with the help of Angular4 Router Module.  • Developed interactive and user friendly User Interface (UI) using Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, Type Script and AngularJS.  • Used Dependency Injection to create a loosely coupled application by injecting the WCF service methods and data layers into the web project.  • Used Auto Mapper for mapping various objects- domain to view model and vice versa.  • Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing Angular/Angular2.0 JS, developed routing through web pages and achieved Single page application.  • Used Angular JS to achieve two-way data binding.  • Implemented different validation control on the web-pages using Angular/Angular2.0 JS.  • Redesign and replace Jquery, CSS files with Bootstrap and angular2 and services for a modular easy to maintain front-end.  • Used TFS for version control and manage team's tasks. Net Developer Technology Way Inc - Chicago, IL October 2015 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked online with around 500 employees in this company.  • Made the Web design for Websites that fulfill the client requirements using C# language.  • Made the database using wampserver in java & also worked in Eclipse Software.  • Coordinated with systems partners to finalize designs and confirm requirements.  • Diagnosed and troubleshoot UNIX and Windows processing problems and applied solutions to increase company efficiency. Web Developer,Industrial Internship Caterpillar - Chicago, IL July 2014 to September 2015 Description: Caterpillar Inc. is an American Fortune 100 corporation which designs, develops, engineers, manufactures, markets and sells machinery, engines, financial products and insurance to customers via a worldwide dealer network. It is the world's largest construction equipment manufacturer  Responsibilities:  • Managed a team of 2 other members to developed a website as an Online Toy Store for Administration, Customers and Toy Manager. Requirements for customers to view the different types of toys, select the toys, make purchase or rent.  • Webpage allowed for vendors to sell their products but to also see a conclusive report of all items sold and cost of goods sold.  • Displayed Billing information to the customers at the end.  • Our Administration requirements were on top of the Toy Manager and customers functionalities, add/update/delete toys information, categories and customer profile.  • Developed Website using Visual Studio 2012 as a Front-end, database was created in My SQL Server  • Used JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, C#, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap. Generated different reports using Crystal Reports.  • Drew different types of UML diagrams using Microsoft Office Visio application. Web Developer ,Internship ADT Security Services - Boca Raton, FL March 2013 to June 2014 Description: ADT Inc., formerly The ADT Corporation, is an American company that provides residential and small business electronic security, fire protection, and other related alarm monitoring services in 35 countries  Responsibilities:  • Team students, we developed a website as a Hospital Management System for doctors, staffs, patients and administration.  • We developed following modules: salary, attendance, appointment and billing, employee scheduling.  • Developed website using Visual Studio as a Front-end, database was created in Microsoft Office Access.  • Used JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, C#, HTML, CSS, and Bootstrap. Generated different reports using Crystal Reports.  • Drew different types of UML diagrams using Microsoft Office Visio Application. Education Bachelor's Skills .Net (5 years), Bootstrap (4 years), C# (5 years), CSS (3 years), database (4 years), HTML, Linux, jQuery, XML, Javascript, SQL, Sql Server Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  .NET Technologies: Visual C#.NET, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Web Services, .NET Framework 1.1/2.0/3.0/3.5/4.0, ADO.NET.  Practices: Test Driven Development, UML, OOPS  Web & Scriptings: ASP.NET, Web Services, Web Forms, Win Forms, AJAX, AJAX toolkit, Technologie HTML/ DHTML, HTML 5, XHTML, XML, JavaScript, CSS, IIS 5.0/6.0/7, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Node JS.  Database: SQL Server 2005/2008/2008 R2, 2012,2014 MySQL, Oracle.  Tools: MS Visio, MS Project Management, MS Office, Crystal reports, N-Unit.  Softwar ,IDE: Visual Studio 6.0, Microsoft Visual Studio.NET 2005/2008/2010, 2013.  OS, Methodologies: Windows 2000/2003/NT/XP/7/Vista/98, UNIX, MS DOS  Other Languages: C, C++, Java