Java Developer Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Publix Lakeland, FL • Around 8 years of Experience in delivering enterprise solutions in Java/J2EE technologies.  • Extensive experience in using E-commerce framework Hybris with spring.  • Strong working experience in software development life cycle (SDLC) process like Agile Scrum and test-driven development (TDD) methodologies.  • Maintain standards and best practices as they align with Hybris and Java Spring suggested methodologies.  • Experience in building web applications using SPRING framework features like MVC (Model View Controller), AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming), DAO (Data Access Object), Spring Boot, Spring Security.  • Experience in JavaBeans, EJB, Servlets, JSP, Angular.js, JDBC, Hibernate, XML, JSON, Oracle and Java Scripts.  • Expertise in developing end to end applications using Angular and Node JS.  • Experience on server side programming like JavaBeans, JDBC and JMS.  • Good experience in implementing SOAP and REST web services using JAX-RS.  • Good Exposure to implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using Web Services including SOAP, SOAP UI tool and RESTful.  • Experience working in Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Hands on experience with databases including SQL, MySQL, Oracle and DB2 • Knowledge on using Spring Server Cloud Config to externalize configurations using Git repository.  • Experience of production support activities, with strong debugging and troubleshooting skills.  • Excellent analytical and communication skills in order to work with mid-size teams, technical and business leadership.  • Setting up continues integration using Maven and Jenkins.  • Experience in SVN, GIT and CVS for version control management and Expertise in build tools like ANT and Maven.  • Experience of code review so that the coding standards are maintained.  • Strong experience in all the phases of software development life cycle including requirements gathering, analysis, design, implementation, deployment and support Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Publix - Lakeland, FL April 2018 to Present Project Name:    Responsibilities: • Followed Agile Methodology which involves daily scrums meetings and Sprint meetings (planning, Review, Retro) to meet deadlines and expectations • Involved in developing various services based on requirement from Business.  • Development of the new REST Based web services using Spring Boot.  • Implemented logging for services using logging dependency and logback.xml.  • Integrated Junit for all service calls using junit framework in Spring.  • Implemented OO Design techniques such as dependency injection and Factory method for better code readability, Security and Performance.  • Participated in the code reviews before the builds.  • Worked on Performance tuning techniques on the application to make it more efficient as per the client requirement.  • Used SoapUI and Postman tool to test web services.  • Used Spring Security to secure application services.  • With the concept of ReactJs Worked on usage metrics and also end to end events tracing for analysis purpose.  • Developed serverside components which include Spring Boot, Business Services, DAO and persistence layer.  • Preparation of Technical Design documents.  • Junit is used for unit testing and also Performed Smoke Testing to ensure the important functionalities of the application is working or not to avoid critical defects.  • Overviewing deployment of Applications onto production environment thru Jenkins.  • Configured automatic builds in Jenkins which triggers periodically (on a schedule, specified in configuration), or when source changes in the project have been detected.  • Used gitHub to keep track of source code versioning.  • Actively participated in fixing the Production bugs.    Environment: Java, J2EE, SoapUI, CSS, HTML, AngularJs, ReactJs, Jenkins, CURD, NodeJs, BackboneJs, Rest, CI/CD, Next js, Jenkins, ALM, SQL, GIT, Java Developer Alfa Insurance - Montgomery, AL February 2017 to February 2018 Project Name: Service Centre    Responsibilities: • Developed UI pages using Angular 2, JavaScript, HTML and CSS.  • Followed Agile software methodology for software development(3 week Sprint) • Bundling, minifying scripts and deployment using gulpJS and nodeJs.  • Creating interactive functionality, such as form behavior based on inputs provided, that is reusable to the application.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application development like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis, Coding and Deployment.  • Develop code using knowledge of relevant technology as per design specifications and document artifacts.  • Automate functional testing using AOP test cases.  • Involved in writing JUnit test cases with Mockito.  • New library development with micro services architecture using Rest APIs, spring boot • Integrate data from various back-end controllers and creating client-side services, controllers and develop modularize code structures to reduce complexity of the application.  • Implemented exception handling in Java Spring boot for REST API, by making use of Exception Handler and Controller Advice annotations.  • Developed various helper classes needed following core java multithreaded programming and collection classes.  • Refactoring the code to reduce complexity and improve readability and extensibility.  • Participated in code and design reviews and also used check style tool for code quality improvements.  • Developed application using JMS for sending and receiving Point-to-Point JMS Queue messages.  • Used Spring Boot at back-end which helps to develop application with ease.  • Create the user documentation for programs assigned with guidance.  • Respond and conduct analysis of the issues assigned, identify and evaluate different workarounds/ solution alternatives,    Environment: Java, J2EE, spring, Spring Boot, REST Web Services, Jenkins, Gulp, AngularJs, Angular, NodeJs, HTML, JavaScript, CSS3, Junit, SOAP, Apache Tomcat, and Maven. Web Developer UHG - Boston, MA March 2016 to January 2017 Project Name: Online Support service zone (OSS)    Responsibilities: • Used Spring Dependency Injection, to make application easy to test and integrate.  • Designed the User interface using JavaScript and Angular.  • Used Spring cloud config server to have dynamic config changes across distributed systems.  • Implemented the Data Access layer using Spring JPA with Hibernate and using HQL.  • Developed individual UI pages for and reports with AngularJS, ng-Service, ng-Route, and ng-View.  • Involved in developing the application using the MVC Architecture.  • Used Spring Security for Authentication and Authorization of the application.  • Develop the web application using Spring, JSP, HTML Implemented the application using J2EE design patterns like Spring DAO (Data Access Object).  • Implemented and developed Restful web services with JAX-RS using Jersey as provider and implemented Spring Security using OAUTH2.  • Developed presentation layer code, UI using JSP, HTML, Angular JS, AJAX, CSS and JSON.  • Designed UI Screens using Servlets, JavaScript, CSS, Ajax, DHTML, XSL, XHTML and HTML • Written JUnit Test cases to perform unit testing and to improve code coverage.  • Involved in designing test plans, test cases and overall Unit testing of the system.  • Consumed messages in the form of JSON and persisted them with NOSQL database Cassandra and MongoDB.  • Used JMS (Java Message Service) for sending messages to GUI Server and receiving messages from it.  • Experience with designing database schema and writing Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions and Cursors.  • Prepared documentation and participated in preparing user's manual for the application.  • Implemented SOA architecture with Web Services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, REST, WADL and XML using CXF framework tool/Apache Commons.  • Involved in meeting with QA team and resolved defects , • Used GIT for source code version control system. Hybris Consultant -Java developer Cambridge, MA July 2012 to February 2016 Environment: Java, J2EE , Spring Batch, ,MySQL, Hibernate, Web Services, Html, CSS3 , Jenkins, Gulp, HTML, JavaScript, Junit, SOAP, ruby and Maven.  Cambridge, MA July 2012 to Feb 2016  Hybris Consultant -Java developer    Responsibilities: • Developed Frontend -to- Backend application, flow from creating Hybris extensions, DAO, Service, Facade, Controller and Presentation layer.  • Using Angular Js with JSP and tag-libs for front end.  • Develop modules using Spring framework (Spring IOC, MVC, DAO, AOP).  • Developed web presentation layer using JQuery, HTML5 and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  • Developed Email workflows in Hybris using WCMS.  • Involved in creating centralized API by using Google Analytics.  • Used Angular.js and framework where data from backend is stored in model and populated it to UI.  • Participated in integration of applications with existing APIs.  • Worked on creating data models, extending new data models and customizing the admin view using HMC.  • Played a role of Scrum team member by participating in day-day scrum calls, weekly grooming sessions, sprint planning and sprint demos • Use agile methodologies to analyze requirements taken up in every sprint & carry out the development activities.  • Perform design, coding and implementation, team co-ordination, code review, testing, and installation.  • Use design patterns like MVC, DTO & DAO to facilitate clean-distribution of roles across various layers of processing.  • Designed user interface for Algo legacy portal for admin and users to interact with system using, jQuery, JSON, JavaScript HTML5, and CSS.  • Implemented Spring MVC, IOC, AOP concepts to work hand in hand with Hybris Out Of the Box architecture • Worked closely with BA, Scrum Master, QA and Architect to deliver the modules on time and with quality.  Environment: Java 1.7, Spring3.0, Hybris, HTML 5, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Oracle, JSP, Log4j, JIRA, JUNIT, ANT, Shell script. Java Developer Equinox - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2010 to December 2012 Responsibilities: • Involved in designing and developing presentation layer using Struts view tags (HTML, Bean, Logic and Nested), JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Developed the Struts Action classes and Action Form classes and configured them in Struts configuration files as part of the controller component • To keep track of latest Versions implemented CVS Structure • Wrote SQL queries for JDBC connection to Oracle database • Used embedded classes and maps to model ternary relationship in JPA.  • Created class diagrams and sequence diagrams using rational rose • Clear Case is used for version control.  • Implemented various Custom Tags and JSTL tags.  • Setting Data sources, NDJI Names and also worked with cells, nodes and servers during WAS 6.1 environment in deployment team • Adopted J2EE best Practice, using J2EE Design patterns. Business Object and Data Transfer object for portability and performance.  • Utilized Design patterns MVC, DAO, Factory, Singleton • Used SVN for source control repository • Developed Unit Test Cases with JUnit.  • Involved in Module Testing and Integration Testing.  • Used IBM RAD IDE for application development.  • Performed Defect Tracking on a regular basis to make sure every defect has traceability back to the source by using tools such as Clear Quest.    Environment: HTML, CSS, Java script, Struts 1.0, JSP, JSTL, Java Beans, JPA, DTO, Core Java(JDK 1.4/1.5), XML, Windows XP/2000, Websphere6.1, RAD 6.0, Oracle 9i/10g. Education Master of Science in Computer Science SOUTHERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY CARBONDALE May 2015 Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science JAWAHARLAL NEHRU TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY May 2013 Skills CSS (8 years), HTML (8 years), J2EE (8 years), Java (8 years), Junit (8 years), Soap, Java J2Ee, Hibernate, Spring, Rest Additional Information Technical Skills  Technologies: Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, SQL, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Ajax, HTML, CSS, Apache Maven, JSON.  Framework: Spring, Hibernate, Hybris  Methodology: Agile, Waterfall.  Testing Framework: Junit, Karate  IDE: Eclipse, STS, ATOM, IntelliJ  Internet Technologies: Web Services (SOAP), JAXB, JSON, XML, HTML, CSS  Coding Standard Tool: Sonar  Application/ Web servers: Oracle /BEA WebLogic 9.2, IBM Websphere, JBoss4.0, Tomcat.  SCM Tools: Jenkins, Jira, CVS, Perforce, Clear case, Subversion  Operating System: Windows NT/XP/2000, Unix, Linux.