Proprietary Web Application Designer/ developer, Entertainment and Mobility Proprietary <span class="hl">Web</span> Application Designer/<span class="hl">developer</span>, Entertainment and Mobility Web Application Designer/ developer, Entertainment and Mobility - AT&T Winnetka, CA Looking to secure a software engineering position in a web environment, developing backend, middle-tier, and frontend web applications where I can best utilize my expertise to help an organization to meet and exceed its growth needs. Work Experience Proprietary Web Application Designer/ developer, Entertainment and Mobility AT&T - Los Angeles, CA August 2015 to Present • Responsible for developing and maintaining DIRECTV's internal and proprietary customer service agent tools. These tasks consisted of implementing web application, database and API design and development.  • Developed and maintained a customized back-end Content Management System (CMS) for internal DIRECTV tools requiring fast and easy changes and updates using PHP language in Codeigniter framework.  • Experience with Nokia's Workflow Builder platform. Developed and upgraded numerous mobility customer support and troubleshooting tools, helping AT&T's support agents to better serve customers.  • Experienced in Process Atomization Flows integrating multiple API calls and calculations that made customer service agents' manual tasks easier and reduced time spent on the phone with customers.  • Experienced with various Agile methodologies and project management techniques like Scrum. Web Developer & IT Adviser Lejolie.com - Los Angeles, CA 2014 to August 2015 - Los Angeles, CA  • Designed and developed the original Lejolie.com website using Zend and CodeIgniter MVC framework. The company has recently changed its name to TrendPay with a new domain name trendpay.com  • Ported the entire project to Magento platform. Responsible for redesigning and developing a new responsive UI for the website. I also setup and managed Amazon's EC2 server, RDS database server with Elastic Cache and Route53 DNS to make the site capable of sustaining high traffic and fast access. Web Developer/Designer Oubly.com - Pasadena, CA 2013 to 2014 - Pasadena, CA  • Member of development team working on an eCommerce app for Oubly Inc. (https://www.oubly.com)  • The project consisted of front-end product pages and a design tool to allow visitors to customize and preview a printable product before making the final purchase.  • Worked on variety of projects from access speed optimization to better UI usability, new product pages to fixing bugs. I used PHP, jQuery, JavaScript, Ajax, HTML5 and CSS3 technologies throughout the project. Education Bachelor of Arts in Biology CSUN 2007 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Azad University - IRAN Skills Mysql (5 years), Php (9 years), Javascript (6 years), Mongodb (2 years), Node.js (2 years), JQuery (5 years), React.js (2 years), Codeigniter MVC (8 years), Git, HTML 5, CSS Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified February 2002 to Present Network+ Certification February 2002 to Present Additional Information Meltose.com - founder/ developer - since 2018  Fonnzy.com - founder/ developer - since 2014