Web Developer and Photographer Freelancer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> and Photographer Freelancer Washington, DC Work Experience Web Developer and Photographer Freelancer Washington, DC November 2017 to Present Designed, implemented, and monitored web pages and sites for continuous improvement.  ? Designed sites to be compatible with top browsers, including Firefox, Chrome and Safari.  ? Established, configured and purchased domains and web hosting.  ? Photographed and processed high-quality images for both print and Internet distribution. Lead Web Developer and Photographer NOAA Oceanic and Atmospheric Research/GAMA-1 Technologies - Silver Spring, MD January 2017 to Present Analyzed requirements and designed, developed, and implemented solutions for multiple websites.  ? Reviewed code to assess security and verify browser, device, and operating system compatibility.  ? Administer and maintain 28+ websites.  ? Collected, defined and translated user requirements into project designs and implementation plans.  ? Created site layout and user interface using HTML and CSS practices.  ? Established milestones, assign prioritization and delegation of tasks, and create timelines for projects.  ? Represented web team at meetings with stakeholders and discussed project goals and milestones.  ? Completed full redesigns of existing sites to improve navigation, enhance visuals and strengthen the NOAA  mission.  ? Owned more than 10 projects per year from initial research and conceptual design through testing and implementation phases.  ? Created documentation and reviewed documentation of other developers.  ? Photographed and processed high-quality images for both print and Internet distribution. Consultant CliftonLarsonAllen LLP - Gaithersburg, MD February 2010 to September 2016 Design, build, and maintain web sites, using markup or scripting languages, content creation tools, management tools, and digital media.  ? Develop and implement procedures for ongoing web site revision.  ? Manage project execution to ensure adherence to budget, schedule, and scope.  ? Evaluate code to ensure it is valid, properly structured, meets industry standards and is compatible with browsers, devices, and various operating systems. Education Computer Science Information Systems Frostburg State University - Frostburg, MD May 2010 Skills C#, Html, Javascript, Php, Python, Asp, Css, Asp.net, Sharepoint, Database, Sql, Change control, Illustrator, Wordpress, Documentation, Process development, Interviewing, Database management, Photoshop Additional Information Skills  ? HTML/CSS, PHP, JavaScript, ASP.NET, SQL, Python ? Process development and implementation  ? ExpressionEngine, DNN, WordPress, Sharepoint ? Project management  ? Proficient with Photoshop, Lightroom, and Illustrator ? Reporting and documentation  ? Google Analytics ? Interdepartmental coordination  ? Database management ? Staff management and team oversight  ? Business, data, and technical analysis ? Change Control Processes  ? Interviewing and performance evaluation ? Stakeholder relations  ? Code review for HTML/CSS, ASP.NET, JavaScript, C#,  SQL, PHP, et al.