Freelance Programmer Freelance Programmer Over 7 Years of professional experience in web & software programming, database design,  integration, management, upgrade, training and system administration. Work Experience Freelance Programmer October 2018 to Present Worldwide  • Worked with latest JavaScript and PHP technologies such as Angular 7 and Laravel  • Worked with REST Apis with laravel and Passport and oauth 2.0  • Created a native android app with Java for a Canadian municipality. Head/Lead Programmer Costech Technologies Inc - Quebec City, QC April 2015 to October 2018 Canada (Remote)  • Planning of software design and architecture and guided other developers, explained  various different programming practices.  • Reviewing of code from other developers in the team, finding the mistakes and bad  programming practices and guided them.  • Production of quality code, creation and modification of functions in the systems and made tests.  • Creation of very crucial web software for the company, various modifications, upgrades  and deployment and testing, Software created and managed under supervision of the government of United States. (Agencies such as DPS, DDS, DOR, DMV and so on)  • Creation of desktop application for the company to update the systems at one click.  • Creation of chat application with nodejs, mongodb and express, tested and made  upgrades as needed.  • Creation of own custom MVC framework in PHP and created system out of it.  • Creation of own custom file based CRUD database system with JSON and PHP.  • Creation of small applications with MEAN Stack with Twitter bootstrap.  • Had done deep research about security and encryption and had integrated best  encryption in software.  • Taken care of security of web applications written in PHP and took all steps to improve  it.  • Solved software problems and bugs and made sure issues were fixed and tested. Freelance Programmer April 2013 to April 2015 Worldwide  • Worked with multiple clients for multiple different web projects, worked with people  from 21 different countries including most from United States.  • Managed the clients and project requirements.  • Creation of different type of projects with 3rd parties APIs and custom programming.  • Guided and gave consultation to the clients for projects for the best possible results.  • Worked with different types of open source projects to build projects for the clients.  • Worked on ODesk (Now is Upwork), an online platform, got top rated with 100% Job  Success. Programmer/ Web Developer SiliconLeaf Technologies - Surat, Gujarat February 2013 to April 2013 India  • Creation of new functions in existing PHP web application and modifications.  • Taken care of security issues in existing web application.  • Bugs and issues fixes in existing applications  • Worked with multiple JavaScript libraries and added same into the application.  • Worked with 3rd parties APIs for the projects and made sure it worked by testing  everything.  • Testing the whole web application. Programmer/ Web Developer MalenTek May 2011 to February 2013 Berkeley, United States (Remote)  • Designing of web application from start to end, including software architecture and database design.  • Creation of custom web application for technical support teams and code management.  • Code management and fixing errors and bugs in developed web application.  • Creation, design and management of a desktop application for windows drivers.  • Design of website for Malentek and deployment on server for the same.  • Testing for the software, web application and website.    Charity work - 2016  Surat, India  • Planned the design for the website/ web application, created a custom MVC framework  in PHP especially for the website.  • Created a website for a caste in native language, Implemented 3rd party API to send OTP  codes to the phones.  • Testing of web application and management, Provided my own shared server hosting as well.    Other Experiments on my own  Had done experiments on my own with JSP, Android applications development with java and android studio, also had done experiments with unity and unreal game engines. Skills VISUAL STUDIO, C#, C++, CODING, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, WEBPACK, PERL, PHP, CODEIGNITER, LARAVEL, PYTHON, DATABASE, MYSQL, SQLITE, UI, ECLIPSE, JAVA Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/wrathhawk Additional Information Core Competencies  • Strategic Planning  • Asset/Project Management  • Tight Deadlines  • Problem Solving  • Quality Coding  • Team Leadership  • Vendor Relations    Skills  • Languages (Advanced)  JavaScript, PHP, CSS, HTML  • Languages (I can work on):  Perl, VB, C, C#, C++, Java, Python  • Databases  MySQL, SQLite, MongoDB, Custom Database  • Technologies & Frameworks  Gulp, PostCSS, Webpack, Babel, Nodejs, Angular 7, Bootstrap, Laravel, CodeIgniter, FFMPEG,  GhostScript, Wordpress, Expressjs, Socket.io, AJAX, Swing, jQuery & JQuery UI, Perl CGI.  • Tools  Git, Notepad++, Filezilla, HeidiSQL, PHPMyAdmin, Web Browsers & Chrome Tools, Apache, IIS,  Robo 3T, Atom, Brackets, Visual Studio Code, Visual Studio, Intellij IDEA, CodeBlocks. MS Office,  Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Photoshop, Eclipse.  • OS  Windows and Linux