Software Engineer Software Engineer Greenfield, MA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Logic Branch Productions, LLC - Brattleboro, VT February 2019 to Present • Built features, completed tasks, and fixed bugs to help launch a university-wide administrative web application.  • Wrote feature tests and collaborated with the software testing team to ensure successful deployments.  • Built and implemented design patterns and elements in Drupal's content management hierarchy. Software Engineer Intern Logic Branch Productions, LLC - Brattleboro, VT May 2018 to December 2018 Web and Software Developer University of Massachusetts Center for Educational Software Development - Amherst, MA May 2017 to August 2017 • Wrote custom plugins and added WYSIWYG functionality to a web-based textbook authoring tool.  • Developed parts of an interactive online learning adventure website in Drupal.  • Wrote CSS to make University department websites responsive. Multimedia and Web Developer Mondo Mediaworks, Inc - Brattleboro, VT June 2016 to August 2016 • Co-designed and built website layouts, and tested and implemented plugin updates.  • Managed and created website content including advertisements and copy. Multimedia Developer Seymour Creative, Inc - Brattleboro, VT May 2010 to August 2014 • Collaborated with clients' legal, creative, marketing, and software development teams to meet deadlines and ensure our media complied with legal standards and branding practices.  • Designed high quality video and audio compositions, 2D and 3D animations, graphics, and website mockups. Education B.S. in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Massachusetts - Amherst, MA September 2016 to December 2018 A.A. in Computer Science in Computer Science Greenfield Community College - Greenfield, MA September 2014 to June 2016 Skills Django, Git, Html, Javascript, Object-oriented design, CSS, PHP, SQLite, Android, Python, Swift, iOS Development, Scala, Java, Sass, Automated Testing, Agile/Scrum Development, Jira, Bootstrap, CMS, Django, Atomic Design Principles, HTML 5 Awards First Place in college-wide selection for the Massachusetts 29 Who Shine Award awarded by Governor Baker First Place Awarded to our team for the Virtual Reality category at the Hack UMass V hackathon Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Projects:  • SmartDiagnostics iOS App, Data Collection and Diagnostic Tool, Used by Rutgers Medical School  • Android Flashlight App, Activated by Non-verbal Audio Commands, Used Machine Learning  • Unusual and Special Locations Web App, User-Generated and Searchable