Sr. ROR Developer Sr. ROR <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. ROR Developer - ALTATHERA Pharmaceuticals Chicago, IL • 10+ years of professional experience in application development using Ruby, Ruby on Rails, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Node.js, React.js, AngularJS, BootStrap, PHP, ASP, Object Oriented Programming, JSP, Servlet, Struts, Hibernate, Spring, SQL, MySQL, Oracle, Application Servers ( Web sphere, Web Logic), Heroku, AWS.  • Used Rails, AJAX, JSON, CSS and JQUERY to design the front end of the application. Back end of the application is developed mainly using Active Records.  • Proficient in software development, testing, web Application Development and in various domains on Ruby on Rails (ROR) Applications.  • Proficient in all aspects of the software development lifecycle, with expertise in Design and Development and experience with Agile & Scrum methodologies.  • Extensive experience in developing Ruby Gems and scripting using Ruby Core, jrubyand Ruby Standard Libraries.  • Experience in UI development using HTML5, CSS, SASS, javascript, jQuery, angularjs and Coffee script and other similar web technologies.  • Extensive API development experience for both SOAP and JSON based services including RESTful API's.  • Strong knowledge of MVC, Service Oriented Architecture, Design Patterns, Object Oriented and Data Structure Programming.  • Expert in HTML5/CSS3development and have experience in Backbone.js, Node.js, Ext.js, Angular.js, Responsive Web Design.  • Have proven experience in Model View Controller (MVC) Architectures using ROR framework Struts, Spring framework and Hibernate.  • Expertise in developing, maintaining and debugging Rails applications.  • Experience in implementing Rails Migrations and Active Record, Action Pack, Action Mailer.  • Proficient in JRuby, Ruby on Rails implementation in building web applications.  • Implementing RoR upgrades and patches and publishing Ruby Gems. Using Ruby Gems.  • Experience in TDD and BDD development methodologies  • Good experience writing robust, well-tested front end and back end codes.  • Extensive knowledge of Web development, from concept through implementation and optimization.  • Fast learner, can quickly incorporate and implement new procedures with efficiency and accuracy.  • Good team player, creative and detail-oriented, with strong analytical skills with good ability to collaborate with team members for code and design reviews.  • Used HamL, AJAX, Jquery and cascading style sheets (CSS) and Turbolinks for faster page loads.  • Involved in developing and implementation of the Back-end web application using Ruby on Rails.  • Skilled in troubleshooting with good organizational and interpersonal skills.  • Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web based applications.  • Ability to understand project requirements and deliver it with proper estimation and quality.  • Involved in developing and implementation of the web application using Ruby on Rails.  • Exceptional ability to collaborate with team members for code and design reviews. Self-motivated worker with strong focus on business goals and end-user experience. Work Experience Sr. ROR Developer ALTATHERA Pharmaceuticals - Chicago, IL August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developing a Ruby on Rails app that is used by technicians to discover hardware problems on remote systems and guide them through steps to correct those problems.  • Created and improved dynamic UIs for a Ruby on Rails Single Page Application using JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and Ruby.  • Developing and maintenance of new and existing web application features for both internal administrators and end users using Ruby on Rails.  • Experience developing applications with Ruby on Rails MVC framework.  • Involved in developing the Web Pages with best design and development procedures with security incorporate. Made a vast use of GIT for version controlling.  • Involved in developing and implementation of the web application using Ruby on Rails.  • Coded model level validation using Ruby programming with emphasis in web security.  • Handled caching in Ruby on Rails.  • Used RHTML, YAML, RJS and Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to design the web page.  • Experience in creating light weight, scalable and maintainable RESTful API's for business requirement.  • Designed and developed the web applications and interfaces using Ruby on Rails and AJAX.  • Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Continuous deployment of the code. Working as a Node.js developer, Expert knowledge of modern back-end JavaScript (Node.js), front-end JavaScript, Angular 2.0, HTML, & CSS, including libraries and frameworks.  • Worked on Node.js Middleware framework like Express.js and Hapi.js and Yoemon, essentially developed microservices and serve them through middleware. Served any Client side libraries through microservice.  • Worked on NPM packages and published them to nexus repositories, Developed Gulp, grunt task runner or application and involved in to write Unit test cases.  • Essentially working to develop restful Apis and invoke Soap Apis in Express.js and Hapijs, validating Apis with swagger.  • Made strategies for Authentication, Authorization and log formats for AT&T standard internal components with OAuth and passport.js using secure gateway.  • Make pluggable UI microservice for each platform which should solve the monolithic problem of seed generation and create Docker image and deploy them into kubernates using Angular.js 2.0.  • Worked with Docker for containing microservices and write docker file, Jenkins for Automated Integration and deployment process and kubernates for deploying pods. And maintaining each pod on kubernates dashboard and load balancing.  • Working on single client platform supported by around 9 other services, an internal API to connect them, and an external API for partners. It allows us to keep codebases smaller, optimize more specifically, and explore new technologies with isolation.  • Developing Dockerfile for different end points and validate them through the docker-central to run the Jenkins job with given parameter and deploy job to the kubernates.  • Working on AT&T plugin components like Authentication and Authorization, Cookie based Authentication and login, developed logging mechanism to dashboard to keep all logs for application.  • Integration with CICD (Continuous integration and continuous Deployment) Process for all microservices and serve them to external innovations.  • Support Client side liberaries like angular and database connection like mysql, Casandra, mongoDB and postgres through the Node base microservice and have them connected with Api calls.  • Created Polymer.js , ES6 application to make UI by Dragging and Dropping the web components, where each component contains different microservice and make UI after combine all microservice together. Developed ES6 web components for the multiple uses in the UI.  • We setup the development environment using Node.js, Npm, Gulp, Grunt, Bower, git.  • Essentially worked on Message Routing and Kafka Broker implementation in node.js.    Environment: Ruby on Rails, RSpec, RHTML, JavaScript, DOJO, HTML, CSS, XML, XSLT, AJAX, JSP, JSON, Jquery, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, React.js, ES6, TypeScript, Polymer.js, Docker, kubernates, Npm, Gulp, Grunt, Bower, Core Java, UNIX, Linux, Sybase, JDBC, Oracle, SQL, MySql, MsSql, Toad, CRUD, Eclipse, REST, Apache CXF, Clear Case, Tomcat, JUnit, JIRA, Maven, iText, Weblogic, SVN, UML, Agile. Sr. ROR UI Developer Lucent Technologies - Seattle, WA February 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked in the design and development phases of the application using Ruby on Rails framework.  • Developed Active Record classes from Rails console for database programming.  • Created and Deployed new features, amend existing features and handled caching in Ruby on Rails.  • Coded model level validation using Ruby programming with emphasis in web security.  • Developed the user authentication module for customer facing application using the Cancan Rubygem.  • Implemented & enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVC architecture of Railsframework and Ruby conducting code reviews.  • Implemented Unit Testing, Integration Testing and Behavior Driven Development (BDD) using RSpec and Cucumber.  • Actively involved in the process of deployment on cloud based web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Heroku. Working as a UI Developer, assisting my team in developing two different Web-based applications.  • Extensively involved in front end screens using Java, HTML 5, JavaScript ES6, JQuery, JSON, CSS and Ajax.  • Wrote advanced HTML 5, JavaScript and CSS to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces and components.  • Used Bootstrap front-end framework for faster and easier web development with MySQL database, Node.js as the backend.  • Developing custom HTML elements using angular. js 2.0 directives.  • Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Worked with React JS to build bootstrap components for UI web objects. Linked with API data to view render virtual DOM dynamically.  • Create, edit and maintain sites implementing responsive design & themes using front end development frameworks including Bootstrap, flexbox algorithm to make consistent page layout.  • Extensively used Selectors in JQuery for updating content on DOM nodes.  • Wrote code to fetch data from Web services using JQUERY AJAX via JSON response and updating the HTML pages.  • Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles for all new CSS that was implemented.  • HTML5 and CSS3 latest tags are used to design the webpages and HTML local storage web applications are used to store data. Styling pages with CSS3.0 and developed JavaScript for user interfaces.  • Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications.  • Implemented JavaScript source code, embedded nested handling logic using JQuery event handlers and call back functions.  • Extensive experience of Object Oriented JavaScript design pattern and JavaScript MVC Patterns Preferably Angular JS and React JS.  Environment: Ruby on Rails, RSpec, RHTML, Java, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, Struts, JMS, EJB, DOJO, JavaScript, GUI, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, XML, Apache, DB2, Spring, Apache CXF, CRUD, SVN, Web services, GWT, Subversion, Maven, UML, Junit, ASP.Net, C/C++, C#. Sr. ROR web Developer Alcoa Inc - Columbus, OH February 2015 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • Design and write functionalities of the website using Ruby on Rails and related technologies such as various Ruby gems, HTML, Java Script, JQuery, Active Record using MySQL  • Database modeling and design. Involved in developing and implementation of the web  application using Ruby on Rails.  • Designed the front end application using Rails, CSS, AJAX and JQuery.  • Used RSpec to create test driven development. Experience with all of the GEMS and libraries for this version of the ruby/rails.  • Working with Ruby gems such as ruby-pg for Oracle- PostGRE-SQL.  • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVC (Model  View Controller) architecture of Rails framework and Ruby conducting code reviews. Created User Interface Design using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, REST and AngularJS, Bootstrap. Implemented useful and elegant features and visualizations.  • Closely worked with the customer scrum to build the internal web application which will be Responsible for all client side UI Validation and implementing Business logic based on user selection using JavaScript and AngularJS.  • Created a custom, single-page Applications, responsive web application to replace a legacy line-of-business web application, developed using client side MVC Design using AngularJS front end framework.  • Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML/HTML5, DOM, AJAX, CSS3, CQ5 and AngularJS in ongoing projects.  • Implemented different validation control on the web-pages using AngularJS.  • Worked on ReactJs Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Built the Responsive UI screen for create new customer process, create bill to and ship to screens, customer search results page, customer dashboard page using Bootstrap.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and hence building type ahead feature for zip code, city and county look up using jQuery, AJAX.    Environment: Ruby on Rails, JAVA, JSP, Servlet, Spring, JavaScript, Hibernate, JQuery, Struts, Design Patterns, Agile, HTML, CSS, DOJO, XML, JMS, XML, Eclipse, Itext, Apache, Oracle ECM, Struts, Webservice, SOAP, ILOG, Web2.0, Oracle BPM, JSF, WSDL, Apache Axis2, Apache Tomcat Server, SOA, PL/SQL, Oracle10g, UML, Weblogic, Rational Rose, Junit. ROR Web Developer Comcast Corporation - Atlanta, GA September 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Interacted with the stake-holders and gather requirements and business artifacts based on Agile SCRUM methodology.  • Developed web pages by using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used Eclipse to develop source code and debug the application.  • Built a custom cross-platform architecture using Java, Spring Core/MVC, and Hibernate.  • Implemented Web-Services to integrate between different applications internal and third party components using SOAP and REST services using Apache-CXF  • Configured Queues and Topics as part of application integration and defined Camel routing between queues/topics.  • Reviewed the XML logical data model and developed XML schema XSD to validate the model and used JAX-B for Xml-Java Mapping and XML-XSLT conversion.  • Developed and published web-services using WSDL,SOAP and XML, JAX-B based on top-down and bottom-up approaches.  • Experience in pre-testing the Web-Service calls with SOAP UI using end-points.  • Coordinated Unit Testing by JUnit, Easy Mock, Integration and User Acceptance Testing and developed test cases for bean components.  • Used Subversion for maintaining the component and for release and version management. And JIRA for defect tracking.  • Maven tool has been used for the build and deploy procedure scripts in UNIX, Linux and Windows environment using Hudson.  • Been though Release process for project execution as part of SCRUM.    Environment: Java, J2EE,SOA, Spring, Web Services, CXF, XML, XSD, Shell Script, UML, HTML, JavaScript, Eclipse, WebLogic, Active MQ, JAX-B, JMS, Axis2, AJAX, Hudson, Maven, Jenkins, Restful, SOAP, JIRA, Oracle, PL/SQL, XPath, XSLT, SOAP UI, JUnit, SVN, Windows, Unix. Software Developer SA Technologies Inc - Santa Clara, CA October 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Wrote multithreaded programs to measure system performance  • Worked on GUI internationalization using JSP and Core Java  • Used Mercurial to keep track of versioning of the source code  • Worked on bug fixing  • Used JDBC APIs for database connectivity and data retrieval.  • Developing HardwareStoreMarketer.com site using ASP.Net.  • Worked on various client websites that used Struts framework, Hibernate and OGNL  • Wrote test cases using JUnit testing framework and configured applications on Weblogic Server  • Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse and JIRA Bug Tracking.  • Involved in writing stored procedures, view, user-defined functions and triggers in SQL Server database for Reports module.  • Simulation was developed using C++.  • Implemented real-time patient prescription history verification system using C, Oracle PL/SQL on VMS platform.  • Used Visual Source Safe for source control.  • Manipulated data and performed data preparation using TSO, ISPF and SPF system utilities.  • Developed and implemented Legacy system programs by using COBOL, DB2, CICS, JCL, JAVA and VSAM.  • Wrote stored procedures in Oracle PL/SQL for data entry and retrieval.  • Extracted and modified data from VSAM files for PDF reports.  • Automate nightly batch processing and job alerts using REXX.  • Responsible for migrating Websphere server and migrating IBM CICS Transaction.  • J2EE to communicate legacy COBOL based mainframe implementations.  • Designed and developed Message Flows and Message Sets and other service component to expose Mainframe applications to enterprise J2EE applications.  • Use FileAid datasets to validate backend results of test events.  • Configuring and analyzing JCL to execute mainframe batch.  • Actively involved in contributing to RFP and POC activities in IMS.  • Used standard data access technologies like JDBC and ORM tool like Hibernate  • Designed, implemented new website features and provided support, maintenance    Environment: Core Java, JSP, JUnit, Mercurial, Eclipse, .Net, JIRA, JDBC, Struts, Hibernate, VisualSourceSafe, Weblogic, Oracle, OGNL, C, C++, Linux, MS SQL Server, COBOL, FileAid,REXX,ISPF, Mainframe, CICS, IMS, VSAM, JCL Project Developer CITI Bank - New York, NY October 2009 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  • The system was designed according to J2EE specifications. Servlets were used as a Front Controller gateway into the system. Helper classes were used to limit the business logic in the servlet. EJB was used to talk to the database and JSP along with HTML, XML were used to control the client view.  • Designed and added new functionality extended existing application using J2EE,XML,Ajax, Servlets, JSP.  • Studied the impact of the requirement and prepared the Requirement functional and technical documents.  • Created different batch programs to clean up tables in DB2 database.  • Worked on UNIX shell scripting to run the JAR file created for batch program.  • Used Struts framework in UI designing and validations.  • Developed Action Classes, which acts as the controller in Struts framework.  • Client side validations are done using JavaScript and server side validations are done using Struts validator framework.  • AJAX forms are created for update operations.  • Data was converted into JSON using JSP tags.  • Enhanced the existing application to meet the business requirement.  • Establishing JDBC connection using database connection pool.  • Wrote complex SQL statements to retrieve data from the DB2 database.  • Participated in the Production support and maintenance of the project.  • Created new tables in DB2 database.  • Used ClearCase version control system.  • Performed usability testing for the application using JUnit Test.    Environment: JAVA, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, Struts, Design Patterns, Eclipse, Apache tomcat server, DB2, UNIX, ClearCase, Junit Education Master of Science Science and Engineering Florida State University Skills Eclipse (9 years), Java (9 years), JSP (8 years), JUnit (9 years), SQL (8 years)