Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Entry Level Finance/Accounting Positions Tujunga, CA Goal orientated professional looking to change career in a highly competitive market. Previous experiences were in medical/physical therapy field, building websites, food courier, and uber driver. Accomplished individual with a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration. Looking to succeed in the corporate environment. Interested in working for an internship/growing company where I can start my career and succeed in many different financial fields. Work Experience Web Developer Freelance March 2019 to Present Skills include: HTML, CSS, javascript, jQuery, bootstrap, DOM manipulation, and WordPress.  ? Successfully created websites for online freelance clients, friends, and local businesses.  ? Personally cold approach new local businesses and pitch them my web development services.  Postmates Courier Postmates August 2018 to Present Assess and manage any complications that may occur between a customer and the merchant.  ? Provide utmost responsibility and care for the customer and their items.  Uber Driver Uber March 2016 to July 2018 Created Excel spreadsheets and maintained files to track mileage, maintenance, and miscellaneous expenses.  ? Creating positive social interactions and providing superior customer service. Physical Therapy Aide Imperial Physical Therapy March 2010 to July 2014 Building client trust through proper care in a competitive market to grow the business by increasing referral from medical doctors.  ? Front desk duties consisted of medical confirmation with insurance companies, phone calls, helping patients fill out documents, collecting co-payments, responsible for handling cash, and chart filing.  ? Consistently using computer software charts, reporting, and internal company database on a daily basis. Education Doctorate of Physical Therapy in Row and education West Coast University September 2014 to January 2016 Bachelor of Science in Business Administration in Business Administration California State University - Los Angeles, CA September 2003 to August 2007 Skills Financial statements, Team player Additional Information KEY SKILLS AND COMPETENCIES:  ? Highly skilled in completing time sensitive high profile academic projects, developing, and implementing student process to improve efficiency.  ? Highly motivated team player with strong abilities in analyzing different individuals and their needs.  ? Over eleven years experience in academics, enrolled and completed various projects and fields.  ? Strong analytical skills in analyzing financial statements and staying informed on the latest financial news.