MARKETING COORDINATOR MARKETING COORDINATOR MARKETING COORDINATOR Toledo, OH client relations and project management. Pursuing a marketing position where  focus and dedication are highly sought. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience MARKETING COORDINATOR Forberg Scientific Inc - Troy, MI January 2018 to April 2019 Tracked and reported on marketing campaign responses.  Boosted brand awareness with target customer demographics with social,  print and email campaigns.  Communicated closely with all applicable parties within the company,  including the art department, upper management and the sales team.  Supervised marketing for product launches, including public relations tasks,  direct mail pieces, trade shows, sales training and e-mail blasts.  Revitalized web content and social media profiles with new and interesting  content.  Developed fresh, crisp content to diversify current promotional options. WEB DEVELOPER / SALES F.N. Cuthbert Inc - Toledo, OH September 2011 to December 2017 Designed, implemented and monitored web pages and sites for continuous  improvement in fast-paced environment.  Strengthened company brand and identity by creating distinctive website and logo.  Created eye catching and functional digital design concepts across various  platforms to strengthen company brand and identity.  Tested websites and performed troubleshooting prior to deployment.  Implemented Google Campaigns and SEO for various types of websites.  Created site layout and user interface using HTML and CSS practices.  Built and styled 4 new mobile-friendly websites and transitioned old site into mobile-friendly version.  Provided end-user training for website maintenance and updating. Education Bachelor of Arts in Entrepreneurship Columbia College Chicago - Chicago, IL 2011 Skills Branding (Less than 1 year), Database (Less than 1 year), MARKETING (1 year), SEARCH ENGINE OPTIMIZATION (6 years), SEO (6 years), Social Media, Digital Marketing, Email Marketing, Indesign, Photoshop, Adobe, Dreamweaver, Email Assessments Social Media — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to create content, communicate online, and build a brand's reputation. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qhnu6rq-iyxv3oei Search Engine Optimization — Expert May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fuo2ol2-tlkb2b17 Marketing — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to understand your target audience and how to best communicate with them. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/naf6ngx7kmebikko Research — Familiar May 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to follow protocols, interpret statistics and graphs, identify errors, and choose research methodology. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xxgafyjdndjizzsc Graphic Design — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to create visual media to effectively communicate information and concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/upmj-sqtzlbp-o5h Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.