Service Now Developer/ Admin Service Now <span class="hl">Developer</span>/ Admin Service Now Developer/ Admin - Prime Therapeutics LLC Eagan, MN • Around 8 years of IT knowledge with 5 years of good diversified experience in analysis, design, development, testing, implementation as a Developer and Administrator of ServiceNow and ITIL processes.  • Extensive experience in Service-Now working with different modules such as Incident Management, Service Catalog, Knowledge Management, Problem Management, Change Management, Project Management, CMS Reporting, Gauges, Integration with Web Services, Portfolio management and Reporting and CMDB.  • Successfully implemented ServiceNow project in desire timeline. Experience various implementations of SDLC- AGILE (Scrum based) and Waterfall models  • Designed, developed and delivered end to end customer self-service catalog on ServiceNow from Dublin release and on.  • Expertise on creation of workflows for Service Catalog items in ServiceNow.  • Participated in process designing sessions and documented ITIL process flows  • Functional knowledge and implementation experience of ITSM frameworks. ServiceNow Administration and Production support including maintenance of lower life cycle instances.  • Configured Applications using ServiceNow tool used in ITIL Management, Strong understanding of ITIL V3. Functional knowledge and implementation experience of IT Service Management (ITSM) and demonstrated project management skills and experience working directly with customers and clients.  • Good knowledge in Business rules, activate plugins, manage data with tables, Import sets and Update sets, Control system access and data security, Control access to the application and its records.  • Change management experience using Update Sets, Import Sets in ServiceNow  • Experience on various ServiceNow customizations as per client's requirement. Worked on CMDB and Asset Management in providing better scope of understanding on the inbound and outbound of assets.  • Expertise in creating and maintaining Access Control Rules for securing and providing the right access to right person/role.  • Experience in end-to-end asset management which includes both enterprise and end-user assets.  • Deep functional and technical knowledge of the ServiceNow platform as well as experience delivering medium to large-scale ServiceNow implementations.  • Experienced in managing both low and high-severity incidents across the entire incident life-cycle in accordance with availability, resolution and restoration SLAs.  • Experienced with Web services using SOAP, REST, JSON, and XML based integrations with various authentication options/techniques and Migration INTEGRATION Knowledge from CA Service Desk, BMC Remedy into ServiceNow.  • Developed script on server side and client side for BUSSINES RULES, UI POLICIES, UI ACTIONS, and UI MACROS & CLIENT SCRIPTS.  • Created Access Control Rules (ACL). Used scripting tools and ServiceNow functionality to create script for automating routine tasks being done in Service Now.  • Creating UI script for AngularJS.  • Strong experience in JavaScript used in client scripts, business rules, UI policies, UI actions  • Automating simple and complex multi-system tasks on remote servers using Orchestration  • Managing Puppet configurations using Orchestration activities  • Configuration Development and development of Requirement Integration components (SSO, LDAP) and Using SOAP or REST web services to e-bond the two instances(plumbing)  • Hands on experience in web development using HTML, JavaScript and CSS  • Experience in developing workflows and in customizing the applications in Servicenow using Java script, Jelly, AJAX, HTML and DHTML.  • Configured LDAP Server, for pulling user and group data from Active Directory.  • Good Knowledge in Functional, Regression testing, Integration Testing, System and User Acceptance Testing.  • Extensive experiences include writing Business Requirement Documents (BRD), Functional Specification Documents (FSD), Business Process Re-engineering (BPR), Use Case Specifications, and System Development Methodology (SDM). Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Service Now Developer/ Admin Prime Therapeutics LLC - Eagan, MN March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Interacted with Stakeholders, Users, Customers and attended JAD sessions for gathering requirements to arrive at design solution.  • Worked on Modules of ServiceNow like Incident Management, Change Management, Service Catalog, and Reporting and few other custom applications.  • Provided design, technical solutions for the user requirements and made recommendations to improve their current processes.  • Implemented, documented and maintained the Service-Now platform to meet specific business needs to support ITIL and business processes.  • Wrote Client Scripts, UI policies, Business Rules, Security Rules and UI Actions, UI Pages/Macros.  • Worked on JDBC Extracts, SQL queries, Data sources, external connectivity using SN data source, Web services, Email integrations, LDAP etc.  • Service Catalog: Designed and developed many catalog items out of which few catalog items involves integration using SOAP Web services, Restful API.  • Built Reports, Gauges and Home Pages.  • Customized Change Management application to be aligned company's requirements designing complex workflows.  • Implemented JDBC Export to execute custom SQL queries in the target database based on requirement.  • Created Data Sources from various external applications, scripts to parse incoming data and transform into ServiceNow.  • Worked on Integration of Inbound Email actions for Email SR and Email Incident implementation.  • Worked in various upgrade projects Eureka and Geneva.  • Worked on creating various Import sets and Transform maps for data uploads using excel sheets.  • Created Database views to create reports across multiple tables.  • Created Service Catalog templates for various use cases which are used for Catalog Admins to develop catalog items.  • Managed and coordinated activities during the overall ticket life cycle in Incident and Problem Management.  • Provided analysis of Service-Now design and the existing Client's configuration/customization, and recommended Service-Now oriented best practice solutions.  • Translated business requirements into Service-Now oriented technical/procedural requirements.  • Collaborated with Technology Service Desk and Service Management to evaluate requests to change, customize, and configure service now.  • Consulted with the Client's user community to identify and evaluate business needs.  • Mapping the user requirements / enhancements to Service Now entities and providing estimation for end to end development of requirement.  • Worked with Apache Jelly to create various kinds of UI pages and Macro templates.  • Developed reports as per requirements from management.  • Documented all implementations and best practices defined within team.  • Trained Service Desk team and organized meetings to review content and testing efforts for testing in UAT for quarterly releases.  Application Support:  • Configured and customized new Service-Now applications and modules when activated.  • Implemented new Service-now modules and functionality.  • Resolved incidents occurring in the Service-Now environment.  • Evaluated the systems operability and performance metrics.  • Implemented selected solutions to integrate Service-Now with third party applications like JIRA.  Environment: ServiceNow Eureka and Geneva, Asset Management, Incident Management, ITIL, HTML5, JavaScript, Jelly Script, Web Services, CSS, CMDB. Service Now Developer/ Admin Intuit - Plano, TX March 2016 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  • Implementation, Customization and Maintenance of ITIL modules such as Incident, Change, Problem, Knowledge, Service Catalog, CMDB in Service now.  • Customized UI Appearance for Problem and Change Management Application which is simple, intuitive and easy to use.  • Configuration of Email Notification and Alerts to notify users about specific activities in the system such as updates to Change and Problem requests.  • Utilized Java Scripting in Business Rules, Client scripts, UI Policies and UI Actions to deliver solutions that automate and audit business processes. to customize the instance as per Business needs.  • Responsible for access control, security, minor enhancements such as form or workflow editing.  • Responsible for gathering requirements and customizing Business Service Catalogs for AIG organization from the scratch.  • Created and Maintained foundation data - User Accounts, Approvers, Support Groups, Sites, Production Categorizations, and Templates  • Involved in providing the design solution, technical methodologies and processes solution to meet the customer requirements.  • Manage and coordinate activities during the overall ticket life cycle in Incident and Problem Management  • Worked as an administrator to look after the day to tickets and resolve them on priority basis.  • Working on JAVASCRIPT, AJAX, and GLIDESCRIPT to run Workflows, Business Rules and UI Polices.  • Coordinating the instance upgrade activities.  • Development of Service catalog which includes creating new catalog items, designing workflows and execution plans.  • Configured multiple Catalog Items Front-end web / GUI components using JavaScript, SOAP, Web services, CSS, HTML5.  • Developed On-Boarding and Off-Boarding service catalog and automated the process of removing access for all the applications the user was given access to.  • Worked on Discovery to update and insert computer related information on a regular basis.  • Worked on LDAP integration to update the users and groups.  • Writing Catalog client scripts and UI policies to make client side changes.  • Implementing the UI pages to use them in catalog items, implemented using UI scripts.  • Creating Knowledge articles to document the steps in creating the catalog items.  • Integration of Service Now with BMC Remedy for ticket creation on change submits.  • Worked on CMDB and Asset management.  • Creation of Email Notifications and Inbound Actions.  • Development of SLA for the organizations Implementation of ACL.  • Performed code migration using Update Sets.  • Developed Import Sets to import data from different Sources. Developed Transform maps to map values between Import Set and Service now tables.  • Created all the reports of Incidents, problem and change management.  • Assigned designation roles for the user and gave access to the users.  Environment: ServiceNow Dublin and FUJI, SLA, JavaScript, SOAP, Web services, CSS, HTML5, AJAX, GLIDESCRIPT. ServiceNow Admin/ Developer AT&T - Dallas, TX September 2014 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked on Creating Users, Roles and Groups and load the data to service-now objects using import sets on daily, weekly, monthly and on request basis.  • Customized UI Appearance for Problem and Change Management Application which is simple, intuitive and easy to use.  • Successfully implemented Knowledge Management process in ServiceNow.  • During development I have worked with JavaScript, to create front-end and back-end components such as forms, buttons, views, pages, business rules and workflows.  • Developed Import Sets and Transform maps to import data from different external Sources.  • Involved in daily, weekly and monthly meetings with client on the work progress and discussions on the upcoming work.  • Worked very closely with ITSM Process Architect, customer personnel, Business Analysts, IT Architect, IT support teams and other technical teams to ensure that business needs around implementation of ITSM processes and ServiceNow are in a controlled and predictive manner.  • Developed Transform maps to map values between Import Set and ServiceNow tables.  • Involved in developing Workflows with Approval.  • Worked on Design and development of ServiceNow forms and views.  • Configured Service Level Agreements to define certain levels of service from both internal and external providers.  • Implemented, documented and maintained the Service-Now platform to meet specific business needs to support ITIL and business processes.  • Involved in providing the design solution, technical methodologies and process solution to meet the customer requirements.  • Configuration of Email Notification and Alerts to notify users about specific activities in the system such as updates to Change and Problem requests.  • Utilized Java Scripting in Business Rules, Client scripts, UI Policies and UI Actions to deliver solutions that automate and audit business processes to customize the instance as per Business needs.  • Responsible for access control, security, minor enhancements such as form or workflow editing.  • Responsible for gathering requirements and customizing Business Service Catalogs for the organization from the scratch.  • Created and Maintained foundation data - User Accounts, Approvers, Support Groups, Sites, Production Categorizations and Templates.  • Manage and coordinate activities during the overall ticket life cycle in Incident and Problem Management.  • Involved in working with process owners to develop workflow, implement the workflows in Service applications and administer the tools and enhanced requests by Java script.  • Created Procedure guidelines used in supporting Technology and Application issues.  • Developed operational requirements documentation and train operational staff to maintain solution  • Use business analysis skills to directly interface with customers to design and build applications that meet business goals and objectives.  Environments: ServiceNow Berlin and Dublin, Java Script, UI policies, Problem Management, Change Management, Incident Management. Service Now Developer L&T InfoTech - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2012 to August 2014 Responsibilities  • Created various front end forms.  • Involved in creation and modification of various Business rules, Client Scripts, UI policies, UI actions.  • Created update sets to migrate customizations from one instance to another.  • Designed Workflows.  • Worked on CMDB.  • Service Catalog and Request Workflow Design and Configuration.  • Development of scheduled reports for stakeholders  • Extensively worked on Workflows and web service integrations.  • Worked closely with UI designers to understand the detailed UI prototypes and components.  • Developed Page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  • Converted mockups hand-written HTML and CSS with pixel perfect attention.  • Developed the web pages that included JQUERY, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Developed web presentation layer using JQUERY, HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  • Designed the table less web applications using CSS and with the help of tags as per W3C standards.  • Construction of UIs using jQuery, Backbone.js, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Worked with teams where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved.  • Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging and deploying.  Environment: Service Now Aspen, HTML, DHTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, Java(JSP), Oracle, Windows. Web Developer SIA Global IT - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2010 to December 2011 Responsibilities  • Involved in Requirements and Analysis: Understanding the requirements of the client and the flow of the application as well as the application Framework.  • Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Understanding Web UI conventions and be able to leverage them for promoting an efficient user experience.  • Used HTML, XML, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  • Used Dream weaver as HTML editor, IIS for Web Hosting and SQL Server database.  • Implemented JQuery along with JavaScript libraries.  • Executing the Test Cases and updating the defects.  • Coordinating with development team to make the bug to be fixed by raising the defect ids.  • Developed scripts using Soap UI tools to reduce the manual effort while executing the test procedures.  • Defined and developed the application's presentation layer using HTML, CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery Scripting.  • Redesigned pages to improve application design and UI to attract the customers by taking inputs from senior management.  • Defined the site layout and developed Wireframes using Adobe Illustrator.  • Implemented AJAX functionality using JQUERY, JSON and XML.  • Created and developed the web-page layout and positioned/developed design elements, using Dreamweaver, HTML and Adobe Photoshop.  • Designed DOM based interactive to reprogram selected links and adopted WCAG 2.0 standards for HTML and XHTML and W3C standards for CSS as well.  • Worked on prototypes for Responsive design.  Environment: Quality Center, MS Office, SQL Server, JIRA, Windows, .Net Framework, HTML, JQUERY, AJAX, CSS3, XML, JavaScript, Dreamweaver, JSP. Education Bachelor's in Electrical and Electronics Engineering in Electrical and Electronics Engineering Amrita University Skills HTML (4 years), AJAX (5 years), CSS (7 years), JAVA (5 years), ITIL (4 years), sql, sql server, database, javascript, Servicenow, AEM, Cobol, Drupal, Hadoop, jQuery, XML, Linux Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical skills:  ITSM Tools: Service Now, ITSM suite ITIL.  Languages: C, C++, Java, J2EE  Web Technologies: HTML, XHTML, Java script, CSS, Jelly, AJAX, XML.  Operating systems: UNIX/LINUX, Mac-OS, Windows  Databases: SQL Server 2008/2012, Oracle 10g  Developing Tools: Visual Studio2010/2013.  Software Methodologies: SDLC, Scrum/Agile, Waterfall