Senior Full-Stack Developer Senior Full-Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full-Stack Developer San Antonio, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Full-Stack Developer Bidpath And SAM Auction Software - San Francisco, CA May 2016 to Present Zend Framework, Composer, Ratchet, PhpUnit, Webpack, ES6, Nodejs, Websockets, GoLang, Java    Developed customer oriented real-time bidding php server. Solved   performance bottleneck of 1000 websocket simultaneous connections, which gives us ability to not rewrite the main code and significantly increase simultaneous connections (more than 100,000)   Continuously improved system performance: optimized big mysql queries, troubleshooted database transaction issues, wrote report generator in GoLang, which decreased report creation from 60 seconds to 100 milliseconds. Applied generators and co-routings to improve performance and memory footprint (lazy load for data)  Introduced composer (package manager) to organize php dependencies. It gives us the ability to maintain dependencies up to date by one command. We started using standard autoloader and follow PSR standards of coding.  Developed REST architecture based web services to facilitate communication between client and servers. Standardize json response from them. It gives standard way of communication and easier to maintain with less errors. (Eg created a service to handle image carousel. Before we sent the whole html and now just data in json. Created a service to handle auction watch list lots). Developed SOAP based service to provide API for users to control their auction and lots.  Was initiator of the idea to refactor js code to ES6 and extract js from php. I introduced webpack to the team and led a subteam of 3 developers. I wrote tickets for them in Jira and mentored them, managed features and bug backlog, reviewed code and consulting. Created a future architecture of all js code. Organized legacy JS code with webpack, nodejs, karma, ES6.  Wrote documentations for other developers on how to use webpack and new js coding. (3 articles). Helped develop and set coding style standards in js and php.  Introduced the team to unit testing, and established it as a part of standard development process. Wrote more than 500 unit tests, 100 integration tests.  Wrote a bot based on Selenium (Java) that act as a user. I used it to start several bots to test an auction and catch a floating bug in the timer (race condition). Full-Stack Developer U-Jen LLC - St. Louis, MO June 2017 to April 2018 Azure Cloud, .NET Core 2,EF Core, MSSQL, bootstrap 4, webpack, es6, three.js  Created CRM (Easy Bend) site for construction firm from start to finish with main feature - to draw in 3d, 2d views. There are 3 types of users: contractors, that draw what they need and shops, suppliers that fulfill all requirements and bend metal trim. Full-Stack Developer Divine Metal & Roofing LLC - San Antonio, TX January 2018 to March 2018 USA    Created site from start to finish. Azure Cloud, .NET Core 2, bootstrap 4, webpack, es6 Team Lead Smartagent - MOSCOW, RU February 2012 to March 2016 Zend Framework, Composer, PhpUnit, Webpack, Nodejs, Websockets, ElasticSearch, Java, Rabbitmq, Redis, Sphinx, Tesseract OCR  Led a team of 4 developers towards successful project accomplishments. Coached and trained teammates and junior developers, coordinated an admin team.   Designed architecture. Developed and wrote external and internal design specifications.  I created custom Browser automation based on webkit component of Qt framework(c++, python) for auto-publication ads of clients. This feature brought 60% of new clients to the company.   Created chat on NodeJs (websockets).  Wrote a prototype on Java to recognize digits from images to collect data which brought 80% of company content. Then improved it using Tesseract OCR.   Designed framework to develop scrappers. The framework gave the ability to hire junior developers and gave them a separate task. Which eliminated the need to show them the project code. It saved company money, increased development speed and kept quality of the main code intact.   Analyzed, monitored, reviewed, and improved application performance.   Offered to use SOA to solve the increasing load. Improved performance by extracting Search service (based on ElasticSearch). I offered to use replication and use separate read and write database servers. It increased stability of the service and performance.   Created API for mobile devices. It was a new feature that connected a browser extension with an app on user’s phone. This feature helped dial a phone number for our user.   Created service to upload images with post process on RabbitMQ workers. I implemented the process to save images in divided folder based on hash from an image (eg ~/images/gh/4w/df/gh4wdf.png). It increased performance of saving images on HDD. All image hashes were saved in db. It gave the ability to “upload” same images instantly and eliminating the need to keep copies. This approach helped us to use less servers and made user experience much better. Freelancer MOSCOW, RU June 2011 to January 2012 REMOTE MOSCOW, RUSSIA    Developed a new website on C# MVC framework from scratch. Small GUI programs for windows (C#).  Developed several websites on PHP. PHP Web Developer XQ Design Agency - MOSCOW, RU March 2011 to May 2011 REMOTE MOSCOW, RUSSIA    Developed e-commerce website on CMS Joomla  As an only developer I was required to work every angle on a project. Self-Employment - PHP Web Developer Dominicana International May 2010 to April 2011 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC    Developed websites for real-estates agencies from scratch: Victoria, Dominican Republic Second Home,  Dominicana International  Maintenance, Support, Administration servers    LAGUAGES:  English, Spanish, Russian Education Faculty of Radio Engineering Tomsk State University of Control Systems and Radio-electronics September 2002 to September 2005 Skills MySQL (8 years), ELASTICSEARCH (3 years), JAVA (1 year), PHP (8 years), .NET Core (1 year), Python (1 year), Javascript (8 years), Linux (8 years), NET, Node, C#, AWS, Jquery (8 years), Nodejs Links https://bitbucket.org/namax25 https://github.com/namax http://max-www.com Certifications/Licenses Spring Framework 5: Beginner to Guru December 2018 to Present https://www.udemy.com/certificate/UC-UCRWI0IE/ Additional Information SUMMARY OF SKILLS:  Programming is my passion. I love challenges, new languages and approaches. I have 8+ years of experience  in numerous aspects of web-development, both front and back-end. My knowledge of multiple  programming languages and tools will allow me to complete projects with speed and efficiency. No matter  the level of difficulty I never back up or give up. Complete understanding of object-oriented and  service-oriented application development methods. Excellent knowledge in design patterns and  architecture. Hard working, motivated and dedicated with proficiency in working independently and in a  team environment with little supervising. Always happy to learn something new.    SKILLS:  ? PHP (OOP, MVC), various frameworks (Zend Framework, Laravel, Symfony).  ? JavaScript (jQuery, ES6, TypeScript, webpack). For tests: karma, mocha, protractor.  ? C# (.NET Core, ASP .NET MVC framework), Azure Cloud, Excel Plugins  ? MySql  ? Redis, Memcache  ? Elasticsearch, Sphinx  ? Experience using version control: Git, SVN  ? Unit tests: (phpunit) + Acceptance tests with Selenium (Java, Python, C#)  ? Strong understanding Linux (Ubuntu, CentOS)  ? Additional languages I can use: Java, Python, GoLang