Sr Associate Sr Associate Sr Associate - PwC Tampa, FL To continue my career in software by designing and developing web applications using the latest technologies. Work Experience Sr Associate PwC - Tampa, FL January 2017 to Present Automation with CI/CD using VSTS/Azure/GCP and Jenkins  ? Use docker containers for microservices and applications  ? Develop internal npm libraries for use firm wide  ? Build reusable/shared components, services, and pipes based on Angular best practice guide  ? Heavily involved in requirement gathering, POCs, designing / architecting, and development  ? Assist building web app / microservice generator to create project efficiency/decrease developer ramp up time; ability to deliver a POC within a day of project requirement gathering to provide stakeholders visuals  ? Worked in an agile / scrum development methodology to ensure delivery of quality code within sprint iterations; involved grooming sessions, sprint planning, and sprint end retrospectives  ? Extensively work on building RESTful APIs using NodeJs and Express; integrate with bots, Salesforce, GCP, other internal systems to gather data to display for the UI  ? Experienced in Angular forms, services, routing and navigation, guards, component interactions, component life cycles, shared components / services, subscriptions / unsubscriptions, modules  ? Strong emphasis on security / authorization / authentication on UI and APIs to ensure permission/role-based access to certain data  ? Managed front-end teams and back-end teams (onshore and offshore) to guide successful delivery of products  ? Lead on high profile projects and work with on-shore/off-shore dev teams - Albatross, TRA, RE, S2P, PDDB  ? Languages/Applications: Angular2/4/5, NodeJS, Loopback, Ionic, HockeyApp, Git/GitHub, VSTS, Azure, GCP/Kubernetes, Jenkins Web Application Developer Quorum Business Solutions - Tampa, FL September 2015 to November 2017 Lead efforts to migrate from ASP .NET / Master Page products to SPA (initially at AngularJS v1.3 and strategically upgraded to AngularJS v1.5, Angular2, and Angular 4)  ? Building a AngularJS v1.x "model first client side" architecture with emphasis on model services, reusable directives and pipes  ? Worked extensively with Kendo UI to build out dynamic front-end views  ? Develop high profile, large scale, Angular 4 SPAs using Observables, rxjx, ngrx, Socket.io  ? API factories and model services; use best standards / clean code using JS Hint/eslint; unit tests using Karma/Jasmine  ? Used Postman and ARC to test APIs before implementing UI features to confirm response payload, test http API speed / performance and payload size  ? Leverage use of UI Bootstrap, UI Router, Angular Material, D3js for a more robust app with user experience in mind, data visualization, and intuitive design  ? Lead the efforts to integrate with third party APIs such as Zendesk and NetSuite in products  ? Create a Node/Express server API backend - implement RESTful architecture  ? Automation with CI/CD on VSTS/Azure Webhooks and Webpack/ Grunt and Gulp  ? Languages/Tools: AngularJS v1.x, 2,4; Azure, NodeJs, C#, D3.js, socket.io, ngrx, kendo ui, ui bootstrap, VSTS, JavaScript, CSS3 Front End Web Developer Hilton Grand Vacations - Orlando, FL February 2015 to September 2015 Create scripts for internal software applications that agents use for promotions  ? Redesigned the UI for the applications - Wireframe / Prototype / Development (SDLC)  ? Developed HTML prototypes and UI deliverables such as wireframes, screen mockups, and design specifications that adhered to the company brand  ? Make web service calls, hit database stored procedures and tables to retrieve customer information  ? Able to efficiently lookup customers, add comments, enroll for HHonors, Transfer calls, Cancel Packages, show details about packages, show promotions, end call, etc.  ? Involved in daily scrum methodology to ensure development and QA testing was on track for release schedule with quality code  ? Worked closely with QA team to understand the reported defects and resolve them (ensuring another bug wasn't created as a byproduct of the resolution)  ? Improved overall application performance by analyzing loaded data/content, data sizes, data binding enhancements, refactoring extensive functions to more efficient solutions, and following optimization standards  ? Languages: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Knockout JS, Bootstrap, XML, JSON  ? Applications: Visual Studio, Soap UI, SQL Server Management Studio Web Developer CiiRUS - Kissimmee, FL May 2014 to February 2015 Create functional and responsive websites/pages using HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript with standards, consistency, and best practices  ? Work with .NET software that drives website data in terms of property availability by filters selected by end user  ? Work in agile / scrum development methodology to meet deadlines in a fast-growing company  ? Responsible for updating existing websites based on client requests; testing for cross-platform/cross-browser functionality/compatibility on all modern browsers and mobile devices  ? Implement creative & efficient solutions for clients; scripts to dynamically perform actions to sync with rental data  ? Brainstorm methods to adopt to reduce time of development by setting specific processes in place; document steps for new hires to hit the ground running and produce with minimal ramp-up time  ? Languages/Tools: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, FTP  ? ROI: 6.25%: Averaging 6 websites monthly; ability to multitask on multiple projects simultaneously Web Applications Developer Intern University of Central Florida - Orlando, FL August 2014 to December 2014 Assist with live projects and applications for UCF programs  ? Incorporate an interactive search/informational bar that is used by multiple applications; SSO functionality  ? Turned conceptual ideas into a creative and efficient solution for all applications  ? Testing applications for cross-platform/cross-browser functionality; Ensure quality code and component based to add to various applications  ? Designed and documented the functionality of code developed  ? Languages: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ColdFusion SEO Intern Royall Advertising - Orlando, FL March 2014 to July 2014 Implemented SEO (Google Analytics, backlinking, key words) for various clients to increase website ranking, credibility, traction, and build trust  ? Worked on meta descriptions to support SEO strategies  ? Brand marketing & Social Media  ? Tracked campaign efforts via Google Analytics to determine successful and unsuccessful methods for specific clients  ? Reviewed and edited blog posts/articles for higher quality content Project Manager Inspire Hotels - Tampa, FL December 2013 to February 2014 Responsible for projects within the company  ? Online application for managers and owners to efficiently manage their properties with room sales, employees, events, overtime, and issues.  ? Learn software to run a business efficiently and teach other general managers.  ? Design and create a new business website incorporating all properties where users can fill out employment application, view information about all properties, and send emails to the managers.    Additional  Honors: Deans List, First Year Scholar, National Society of Collegiate Scholars. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology The University of Central Florida - Orlando, FL 2011 to 2014 College of Engineering & Computer Science Skills Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, D3.js, Reactjs Additional Information Technical Competencies  Applications: SSMS, RoboMongo, Adobe Photoshop/Illustrator; ARC/Postman/SOAP UI; Version Control: Git/GitHub; Atlassian Suite (Bitbucket, JIRA, Confluence), AWS, GCP/Kubernetes, Azure  Programming: HTML5, CSS3 (UI /UX Design), SASS, Flexbox/CSS Grid, JavaScript, MongoDB/SQL/NoSQL, Express, Angular(1.x/2/4/5/6/7), ngrx, NodeJS (MEAN), EJS, ReactJS / Redux, jQuery, AJAX, D3.js, Knockout JS, Bootstrap, Material, JSON, Yeoman, Gulp, Grunt, Bower, Mocha / Chai  Other: SDLC, MVC, MVVC, Object Oriented Analysis and Design, Analyze and Test applications, Database design, work efficiently with virtual and global team members