Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - Jewelry Television I am looking for a position in web/software development that allows me to contribute to a team's effort as well as offers me the opportunity to expand my working knowledge of software design and development techniques. I have experience working with teams in software development across various frameworks and platforms using different languages. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Jewelry Television - Knoxville, TN January 2015 to Present Responsible for ongoing development of storefront frontend/backend to meet business needs.  ? Demandware Ecommerce Framework Utilization, support of Software as a Service deployment  ? Interaction with in house SOAP services for enterprise warehouse data management  ? Adaptive mobile development using Mobify, Responsive design using bootstrap  ? Implementation of Adobe Tag Manager for 3rd party analytics. Senior Support Developer Moku Collective - Remote August 2016 to May 2017 E-commerce web development and support. Implementation of new features and optimizing functionality/debugging. Implementation of third party libraries for customer experience and tracking. Optimization of SEO with structured data and reporting with GUA/omniture analytics suites using tag managers. Contract Software Developer Beldon Roofing - New Market, TN April 2014 to December 2014 Developed client desktop GUI application in JavaFX framework  ? Worked with hibernate for JPA persistence Internship in developing waste management/chain-of-custody AttentionIT - Knoxville, TN October 2013 to April 2014 application using Django in Python Education Associate's in Applied Science for Computer Science Pellissippi State Community College - Knoxville, TN August 2010 to June 2012 Additional Information Skills  ? Extensive experience working with Java, Javascript, php, Python, c++, mySql, OOP concepts  ? Professional experience with HTML5, CSS3, LESS, XSLT, Restful API's, Soap Services, Node.js  ? Extensive working experience with MVC frameworks Django, Angular.js, Oracle ADF, JavaFX  ? Professional experience with ecommerce frameworks i.e. Demandware  ? Implementation of analytics i.e. GUA, Adobe Tag Manager, Omniture  ? Working experience of mobile first design and adaptive/responsive content i.e. Mobify  ? Ability to work on large projects, working experience with version control/Agile development  ? Ability to adapt to and learn new development ideologies  ? Self-organizing, goal-oriented and career driven