Web Developer/ Consultant <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/ Consultant Web Developer/ Consultant - ALL CARE MEDICAL Upland, CA Modern, forward-thinking UI Designer. Over 5 years experience consulting with high profile  companies to improve user experience. Always seeking creative challenges. A dedicated Web  Designer with wide range of design styles. Sports to schools, elaborate to minimal, large or  small projects. Solid background in mobile app and secure system design. Work Experience Web Developer/ Consultant ALL CARE MEDICAL September 2016 to Present Built and maintained several large scale websites for several businesses.  Updated core systems  Cleaned code and bug fixes, for improved site security  Online marketing  Google Pay-per-click campaigns  Advised for updates and reason for improvement.  UI/UX design Web Developer and Graphic Designer DMCG INC - Murrieta, CA March 2013 to April 2016 Four Businesses  Conceptualized, planned and executed original designs for a wide range of website properties.  Worked closely with social media team on WordPress blogs and social media marketing.  Designed print and marketing initiatives for all website properties.  Communicated neutrally, empathically and comfortably with team members, clients and customers.  Defined new approaches to complex design problems.  Used site analytics and metrics to define and monitor success.  Created reusable processes, components and tools that leveraged into several other projects, accelerating development progress.  Created wireframes, screen-flow diagrams and UI spec documentation.  Built user interface, data visualizations and designed overall user experience, resulting in increased  user experience.  Informed department of current interaction design patterns and trends. Developer and Graphic BAIL HOTLINE BAIL BONDS - Riverside, CA January 2012 to January 2012 Graphic Design (Logos, Site layouts, Mockups, Framework design) *SEO/Website Optimization  (Sitemap syndication, SEO content syndication) *Joomla CMS Website Development (Includes  database creation, and connection to site) *Wordpress CMS Website Development (Also Includes  database creation) *Linux Web Server (DNS server maintenance, and troubleshooting). Web Designer FIRST AMERICAN SAFETY WEBSITE - Corona, CA February 2011 to September 2011 Designed print and marketing initiatives for all website properties.  Defined new approaches to complex design problems.  Used site analytics and metrics to define and monitor success.  PSN INSURANCE AGENCY WEBSITE  Web Desinger Pomona, CA  Worked closely with social media team on WordPress blogs and social media marketing.  Designed print and marketing initiatives for all website properties.  Developed Website.    OUTRIVAL CLOTHING WEBSITE  Web Desinger/Graphic Desinger Rancho Cucamonga, CA  Contracted to redesign and develop website.  social media, online marketing, SEO. Web Developer ETIWANDA ROADHOUSE WEBSITE - Rancho Cucamonga, CA January 2008 to April 2011 Graphic design and web Design * Advertising, Marketing, and Branding.  Translated established creative direction into conceptual ideas.  Identified and eliminated website bugs to improve user experience. Education BACHELOR OF ARTS in Visual Communications / Interactive Web Development Platt College School of Design 2012 Certificate Platt College School of Design - Ontario, CA 2004 Associate's Degree in Coursework includes Platt College School of Design Skills Marketing, Social media marketing, Interaction design, Architecture, User research, Html, Javascript, Json, Php, Xml, Ajax, Css, Ux, Mysql, Actionscript, Metrics, Documentation, Self motivated, Front End, Wordpress, HTML5 Links http://www.optionrmedia.com Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information SKILLS  HTML(5) Social media marketing  CSS(3) Video editing  Javascript Adobe Creative Suite  AJAX JavaScript  JSON UX architecture  XML UX documentation  MySQL Analytics and metrics  PHP Direct email campaigns  Actionscript 3.0 User research activities  C-Panel Interaction design skills  Experience design  Self motivated  Strategic thinking