Senior Multimedia Designer Senior Multimedia Designer Front End Web Developer/Designer - DMV.org San Diego, CA I have ample experience in web design/development, and maintain skills such in HTML, JavaScript & CSS/Bootstrap. I collaborate with team members in source control/version control processes such as  GitHub. I have developed A/B tests with site optimization tools such as Optimizely, and have conducted  user tests on Usertesting.com. I have experience with Advanced JavaScript including prototype-based  inheritance, AJAX, Mustache.JS, JSON and familiar with JavaScript frameworks such as JQuery and JQuery UI. Work Experience Senior Multimedia Designer Ed2go - Temecula, CA June 2019 to Present Develops  web-based courses (HTML, CSS3, and Javascript), create videos, animations, illustrations and implement in custom LMS. Front End Web Developer/Designer DMV.org - Encinitas, CA December 2015 to March 2019 Designed and developed web media (marketing copy, calls to action, etc.) Created graphical assets and implementing them into clean code using HTML/CSS/JS. Optimized UI/UX and human interaction through A/B tests and user testing. Worked extensively with in house content management system. Web Designer Apunix Computer Svc September 2015 to December 2015 I was responsible for designing graphical assets, optimizing the primary site, and developing/integrating the UI for self-service kiosks. UI Developer Managed Solution June 2015 to September 2015 My responsibilities included designing and developing the UI for the startup website Stratogator. Education Bachelor's of Science in Web Design & Graphic Design in Design & Graphic Design Art Institute - San Diego, CA 2012 to 2015 Skills Front End (5 years), JavaScript (5 years), UI. (5 years), USER INTERFACE (4 years), Graphic Design (5 years), CSS3, Bootstrap, HTML5, UI, Front-End Links http://MccallumMultimedia.com https://github.com/GrphicGuy/Glovebox https://www.linkedin.com/in/mccallummultimedia/ Military Service Branch: United States Navy Service Country: United States Rank: E-4 June 2002 to June 2007 I maintained a top secret security clearance while performing a wide range of tasks in supportof the  national intelligence-gathering effort, with an emphasis on cryptology and (SIGINT)signal intelligence. Commendations: Global War on Terrorism Service Medal Certifications/Licenses Javascript Course May 2018 to Present Established a strong foundation in the basics of programming and the syntax of the JavaScript  language. I leveraged jQuery to handle events and add effects to take HTML and CSS to the next level,  while creating dynamic and beautiful user interfaces that respond to the users.