IT Technician IT Technician Manchester, CT Blends a passion for open-source technologies along with interpersonal and written communication skills. Supplements academic knowledge and satisfies curiosity with self-motivated continuous learning of new and emerging technical skills. Work Experience IT Technician Security Technologies, Inc - Vernon, CT January 2017 to Present Duties include installation, troubleshooting, maintaining, configuring and training end-users on various CCTV recording platforms and access control server software platforms, including mobile applications. Training and support is for internal employees and customers ranging from Universities (University of Connecticut, University of New Haven), banking (United Bank), and insurance (Cigna, Travelers). With quality and network efficiency in mind, I build and maintain servers and client machines, and program cameras and server software to provide peace of mind via security and monitoring of client sites. I maintain a Hyper-V virtual environment for testing new software revisions and new Windows patches. Other duties include on-boarding new employees to internal platforms including cloud/local hybrid Office 365 environment and overseeing regular software and operating system updates and patches on 20 internal virtual and physical Windows instances and 75 and expanding customer servers comprised of both Windows and Linux powered machines; the internal environment also includes management of 25 security cameras and access control for 5 individual tenants. Web Developer Sparky Marquis Alters and Commissions - Wethersfield, CT January 2015 to Present My current project is a mobile-friendly gallery website for an artist to display their work. Early versions of the site utilized Google's Polymer Framework; due to major changes to the Polymer Framework and compatibility issues with older browsers, the site is being transitioned to a Bootstrap Framework. Desktop Support Yale-New Haven Hospital - New Haven, CT September 2016 to October 2016 I worked with the Yale-New Haven Hospital system, providing hands on support to the computers, printers, and cellular devices used by the nurses and doctors on the floor taking care of patients, as well as the administrative offices. Duties consisted of computer hardware and software maintenance on demand, as well as constant on-floor monitoring across the patient care areas to help cut response time to reported tickets. I was contracted through TekSystems, and their contract was terminated due to budget constraints. Web Developer Rutgers Student Affairs Marketing Team - New Brunswick, NJ August 2013 to May 2016 I worked part-time with Rutgers University's Marketing Team. Primary duties included maintenance and regular updates of the University's events calendar. I also helped clean up the internal project database. When the Student Affairs department decided to move their websites to WordPress, I transitioned the sites over to the new host and applied the new front-end and consistent branding to the Student Affairs family of websites, handling CSS and HTML changes and updates. Additionally, I provided technical support for the office's photographers, videographers & graphic designers, helping ensure the Macs and their Adobe Creative Suites were usable and that office printers were operational. Project Office Intern Travelers Insurance - Hartford, CT June 2015 to August 2015 I worked as a summer intern in the Project Office at Travelers' Hartford office. I developed a plan for the cleanup, archive, and decommissioning of a multi-terabyte shared drive. I worked with other interns to help streamline and clarify the project management templates used, and put the new templates into use in a capstone project researching and providing process simplification to the organization's financial systems. Field Technician Dell - Wallingford, CT June 2014 to August 2014 As a summer intern for Dell positioned at Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield, I focused on migrating  laptops & desktops from Windows XP to Windows 7. This included the migration of user profiles, applications, System & Application settings and user data via USMT. Other duties included general user support in the call center, performing IMACD (Install/Add/Move/Change/Dispose) for workstations, and troubleshooting hardware. We migrated machines at a rate of 10 per day. I also led a rollout of 52 machines to a brand new classroom, setting up all relevant software and ensuring all hardware was ready and functioning. Tech Staff Camp Ramah in New England - Palmer, MA June 2012 to August 2013 As a member of tech staff for two summers and several off-season events, I maintained the wifi networks for the staff members, and provided primary technical support for all computers used by camp staff. I was also responsible for inventory and maintenance as well as running audiovisual equipment for various events on campus. Education Bachelor's in Information Technology & Informatics, Specialization in Game Design Rutgers University - New Brunswick, NJ September 2012 to May 2016 Links http://linkedin.com/in/EricMeadow