Senior Web Developer & Programmer Senior <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> &amp; Programmer Senior Web Developer & Programmer - BxMark Dallas, TX • IT expert level professional with experience in both front end and backend application development. Expertise in Ruby on Rails & Python.  • Experience in ASP.Net, Windows and IOS Operating Systems, Command Line terminal, Cloud Repo (GIT, Bit-Bucket)  • Expertise in installation and configuration, database schema & migrations  • A Strong team member with effective verbal and written communication, interpersonal and organizational skills. Skilled at learning new concepts quickly by intuition and relentless persistency. Work well with others even under pressure, and multitasking to meet goals and deadlines.  • Detail-oriented, punctual and dependable, with an uncompromising work ethic Work Experience Senior Web Developer & Programmer BxMark - Dallas, TX January 2015 to Present • Current Project: An apartment finder, social application and, escrow that scrapes data from various sites such as craigslist's to apartments.com and also has a social aspect to where it applies an agents information and property selling info into major social platforms like IG, Facebook and more. Micro services such as web scrapping, data and asset pipeline to support data analytics services on AWS. Will be used for asset delivery and analytics to provide users an alert (feature) of low prices, market changes etc. Deployment is a success on local environment. Distributed System Integration with multithreaded pipelines in Kubernetes and Docker for Machine Learning and Analytics.  • Platform Tools: AWS datalake (S3, EC2, EB, EMR, Athena, Kinesis, Redshift and Glue), Ruby on Rails, Ubuntu, Linux, Nginx, Cloud deployment and Local Deployment.)  • Responsibilities: Managing, creating, and troubleshooting multiple sites. Managing and editing custom HTML, Jquery and CSS code. Website Development, Website Design, Business Cards, Flyers, Banners, Print Ads, and more for clients on a need basis. (Google ads, Facebook ads, Google business suite, Branding, Ads, E-mail and Web Marketing, Ruby Apps) Lead Web Developer & Programmer BxMark - Dallas, TX April 2018 to September 2018 • Responsible for designing and building of Scalable, Supportable, and Integrate solutions on ASP.NET platform, Establishing Best Practices and Standards, Identifying and building of Common frame works JavaScript and Ruby on Rails that will help ease the operational aspects of lifecycle, Building reusable integration Patterns and Code templates for the patterns identified, Support application deployments and change management team in performing deployments. (Ruby on Rails, ASP.NET, OOP, Q&A, Micro services, API Design, Integration & Management, ETL)  • Create and update high-quality documentation for maintaining the life cycle of integration solutions, including architectural, design, technical, process documentation and user guides.  • Provide technical guidance and subject matter expertise to Enterprise Services Team member, both onshore and offshore. Key contact for Project Managers and Directors (Analytical Microservices)  • Trouble shoot and Support Interface failures in Production and build After Action Reviews for major issues. Ensure standards and best practices are followed through code reviews  • Manage defects during development and testing cycles and triage the defects.  • Work with support to resolve product defects or find temporary work around for the product issues  • Be a core team member for establishing and governing SDLC Process for Integration solutions  • Responsible for establishing Documentation templates included in SDLC of Integration links. IT Analyst BxMark - Fort Worth, TX April 2017 to September 2017 6 Month Contract) Travel: 65%  • Remote manage machines. Tools used to remote in, VNC Viewer, Remote Desktop Connection, IBM Remote tool (POS, POE, VOIP Cameras)  • Develop and manage procedures related to identification, prioritization and resolution of incidents, including the monitoring, tracking and coordination of Service Desk functions. Such as documentation for faster processes. (Automation, Documentation)  • Field deployment to configure and install devices and network settings for new software system migration. (Cat 5, Cable Splicing, Hardware, Network Troubleshooting, Traveling)  • Imaging, installation, and configuration of devices (POS Systems, Fortinet router, Cisco switches and routers) within the store to solve POS system dependencies. (Image booting, Hardware and Software Installation)  • Worked closely with Senior Management (CTO, Senior Web Developers to bring service side solutions) Duties included editing accounts and/or making sure that each employee had the proper access for their assigned network such as editing group policies and network drive access among many things. Backend solutions for stores integration by executing SQL scripts/statements on database (for an old system IBM had provided the company). Worked closely with Networking, and Software Production team. (Active Directory, SQL Scripting, Hardware) IT/ Web Developer, programmer BxMark - Bedford, TX April 2016 to April 2017 • Development and management of Nbwaves.com, NewBeginnings.org website through a CMS. Run QA on all sites daily NewBeginnings.org (CMS) and Larry huch ministries and NBwaves Ruby App. (Ruby on Rails, Q&A, Microservices)  • Assisted in, database scripting and administration and migration. (Postgresql, Database administration, Github, Heroku, Distributed Systems)  • Developing and deploy several functional internal tools to automate processes including deployment and data visualization initiatives for Waves ministries. Such as livestream flows for TV broadcast days (API, Javascript, Development, Cloud Deployment)  • Worked closely with Senior Management (CFO, CEO, COO, CTO) to provide key analytics data that assisted in business decision-making. Responsible for the UI/UX for NB Church / Tiz Huch corporations. (Critical thinking and problem solving skills, troubleshooting, outsourcing, Google analytics, Bootstrap design, Photoshop, Illustrator, Light room etc)  • Constructed e-mail marketing flow and strategies for Larry Huch ministries and DFW Newbeginnings. (Marketing, Analytics, Revenue Generation)  • Manage LiveStream for our streaming services at https://larryhuchministries.com/stream and http://newbeginnings.org/live-stream. I also created and manage https://www.nbwaves.com/ from front-end to back-end. (OS Systems Windows server for live hosting in TV broadcast environment, Linux OS for storage main servers).  • Websites: Nbwaves.com, Newbeginnings.org, Larry Huch Ministries (DNS, Hosting CDN, Management, Agile Scrum Flow, Bit-bucket another version control for repository) Senior Specialist Great Lakes Higher Education Corp & Affiliates - Plano, TX April 2014 to January 2016 • Being knowledgeable, helpful, and caring, dependable,  • Energetic, self-motivated, non-judgmental, team player.  • Advising borrowers why a particular course of action will help them maintain their accounts in good standing with their student loans. Assisting with any course of action such as consolidation, bankruptcy, returning to school, payments, and loan forgiveness (Customer service, resource allocation, Critical thinking and problem solving skills, troubleshooting, outsourcing).  • Achievements: Received 100% Q&A and customer service feedback reports consistently for 7 months  • Assisted IT admin with multiple corporate responsibilities such as installing hard drives, PXE image booting from servers and load profile information for new hires. (Training, Mentoring, Network TCP/IP troubleshooting, Topologies) Field Technician (Contract) Dcomm - Plano, TX August 2013 to January 2014 • Inventory reports on a daily basis, add-on sales. (Inventory Management, Accounting)  • Installation of cable, Internet, and phone in residential homes and/ commercial buildings. Maintaining a business under a DBA certification, customer services, day to day quota, troubleshooting, Inbound and outbound calls to customers and dispatch at Time Warner Cable (Network TCP/IP troubleshooting, Topologies, Cable Expert (Coaxial, Cat 5 and 6 splicing)  • Performing tasks inside of customer homes. Education Associates in Applied Sciences Collin College 2014 Skills Rails (6 years), Ruby (6 years), Ruby on Rails (6 years), INTEGRATION (5 years), INTEGRATOR (5 years), AMAZON KINESIS (4 years), AWS (4 years), CSS (4 years), EMR (4 years), HTML (4 years), KINESIS (4 years), API (1 year), JAVASCRIPT (1 year), CISCO (Less than 1 year), NETWORKING (Less than 1 year), EXCEL (Less than 1 year), MS EXCEL (Less than 1 year), MS POWERPOINT (Less than 1 year), MS WORD (Less than 1 year), POWERPOINT (Less than 1 year), PYTHON (Less than 1 year), SOFTWARE LIFE CYCLE (Less than 1 year), SOFTWARE LIFECYCLE (Less than 1 year), WEB SERVICES (Less than 1 year), WORD (Less than 1 year) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Full Stack Ruby on Rails (PWA, Web, Mobile, Test Driven Development)  • Python Networking  • AWS (Amazon Web Services), EB, EMR, S3, Athena, Kinesis, Redshift, Glue)  • API Management  • HTML(5), CSS(3)  • JAVASCRIPT, ES6  • Continuous Integration and Software Lifecycle Automation Docker, Kubernetes  • MS Excel, MS Word, MS Powerpoint  • Cisco Networking