Director of Software Development Director of Software Development Director of Software Development - Eyenalyze Inc Bonney Lake, WA Work Experience Director of Software Development Eyenalyze Inc January 2019 to Present Skills: PHP, HTML, CSS, Javascript, JQuery, NodeJs, Laravel, Drupal 7 / 8, Wordpress, Symfony, Apache, MySQL, GIT, AWS, Go, Java, Docker, Docker Compose, Vagrant, Chef, Ansible, Jenkins, .NET, python  Duties:  ? Manage teams of developers with varying degrees of experience  ? Mentor team members in regards to career goals and skill improvements  ? Review and give feedback on project and architecture designs for improvements  ? Prioritize projects, features, bugs and other development work.  ? Manage production releases.  ? Architect and Implement DevOps infrastructure  ? Oversee code updates and pushes.  ? Manage external vendors and create new relationships with vendors.  ? Create and manage business process.  ? Triage outages and bugs. Lead Senior Software Development Engineer Sinclair Broadcast Group - Seattle, WA October 2014 to January 2019 Skills: PHP, HTML, CSS, Javascript, JQuery, Angular, Backbone, NodeJs, Laravel, Drupal 7 / 8, Wordpress, Symfony, Apache, MySQL, AuroraDB, GIT, AWS, Go, Java, Docker, Docker Compose, Vagrant, Chef, Ansible,  Jenkins, Bamboo  Duties:  ? Architect and implement a web / video content delivery platform capable of supporting 70k to 100k hits  per second from scratch.  ? Architect and implement JSON and XML API's for internal and external vendors.  ? Create, modify and maintain Modules for Drupal and Wordpress.  ? Create and update system architecture diagrams and documentation.  ? Manage production releases.  ? Build and manage EC2 instances in AWS.  ? Oversee code updates and pushes.  ? Manage internal offshore teams and external vendors.  ? Conduct code reviews and mentor other developers.  ? Triage outages and bugs. Web Developer Garrigan Lyman Group - Seattle, WA October 2013 to September 2014 Skills: PHP, HTML, CSS, Javascript, JQuery, .htaccess, Drupal 6 / 7, Wordpress, Symfony2, Yii, Apache, MySQL, Balsamiq, SVN  Duties:  ? Develop custom content for various clients using various LAMP frameworks.  ? Architect data storage encryption solutions.  ? Develop Drupal websites and modules.  ? Migrate Drupal 6 websites to Drupal 7.  ? Oversee code updates and pushes.  ? Look for and design improvements to existing projects. Lead Web Developer Bothell, WA April 2013 to October 2013 Skills: PHP, HTML, CSS, Javascript, JQuery, Drupal 6 / 7, Apache, MySQL, SQLite, After Effects, Balsamiq, Eloqua, SVN  Duties:  ? Maintain and develop for www.sonosite.com and www.visualsonics.com  ? Maintain company intranet.  ? Transition www.visualsonics.com from melonCMS to Drupal 7.  ? Translate www.sonosite.com into 10 different languages.  ? Determine technical requirements to move sonosite.com to better hosting.  ? Adapt www.sonosite.com from a LAMP environment to a Windows / IIS environment.  ? Create infographics using Adobe After Effects  ? Manage and develop custom YouTube channel design.  ? Design and create technical specifications for mobile applications.  ? Acquire and manage outside vendors / contractors for special projects.  ? Manage the SonoSite domain portfolio. Education Western Governors University Present Skills DOCKER, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, JSON, memcache, PERL, PHP, CODEIGNITER, LARAVEL, SYMFONY, SVN, XML, CSS, SQL, CHEF, CMS, BASH, FRAMEWORKS, WORDPRESS, Strategic Planning, training