Senior Analyst Developer Senior Analyst <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Analyst Developer - Goldman Sachs & Co Jersey City, NJ Work Experience Senior Analyst Developer Goldman Sachs & Co - New York, NY September 2011 to Present Oversees a critical business line for the firm's risk calculations and collateral management system through software design and development, workflow and component testing, projects planning, and client support.    • Drive a variety of large projects from complex business requirements into high quality delivery, including efficiency improvement by automation, new business onboarding, regulatory compliance, user experience enrichment, etc.    • Focus closely on clients' needs through initiatives, communication, and teamwork to build well engineered technical solutions through full software development life cycles (SDLC) using Java, DB2, and C#.Net in a fast-paced global team.    • Lead technical design sessions and encourage software engineering best practices to ensure efficiency, simplicity, reusability, testability, and scalability.    • Mentor junior developers on technical and functional knowledge to grow the team in a supportive team environment. Software Developer Epic Systems - Verona, WI May 2009 to July 2011 Enhanced and maintained a data-intensive Web application used by over 8 million patients to securely access health information and communicate with doctors online at some of the most prestigious healthcare organizations worldwide.    • Demonstrated expertise in designing and developing user-centric features with ASP.Net and traditional ASP using a variety of contemporary technologies, tools and methodologies.    • Led the design and development of the Theme Builder project for automating website look-and-feel customization with C#.Net and advanced Object Oriented design concepts, which has replaced the intricate manual configuration process with built-in adjustable themes that are particularly desirable for customer productivity.    • Took a leading role to enhance the usability for the family's records proxy access module, by simplifying the complex workflows for greater user convenience, accompanied by an improved intuitive user interface.    • Meaningfully upgraded the accessibility of the product, allowing an unrestricted website navigation experience especially for users with disabilities and aged people, while making the product Section-508 compliant. Web Developer Intern New York Daily News - New York, NY October 2008 to April 2009 Independently developed an ASP.Net-based Asset Management SharePoint component, which has solved the problems of coordinating inventory activities across two different existing systems for the technical operations team.  • Created various custom SharePoint components using C#.Net to increase management efficiency for executives. Graduate Research Developer Columbia University Computer Graphics and User Interfaces (CGUI) Lab - New York, NY January 2007 to August 2008 Researched and developed integrated tools and utility libraries for the proprietary Augmented Reality (AR) and Virtual Reality (VR) platform, utilizing advanced human-computer interaction (HCI) technologies including head-tracking sensors and synthesized images of real and virtual world.  • Collaborated with Ph.D. students and researchers for the creation of immersive entertainment applications on top of the AR platform and Microsoft XNA game framework, highlighted by an AR Car Racing 3D video game project presented at the Microsoft research demo show in summer 2007. Graduate Teaching Assistant Columbia University - New York, NY January 2008 to May 2008 Assisted in teaching and managing the Data Structures in Java course to a class of 82 undergraduate students.  • Shown professionalism through presenting course materials, tutoring programming skills, and grading assignments. Web Administrator Beijing Institute of Technology - ??? August 2003 to February 2005 Led a 4-student interest group to build and maintain an extracurricular activities website for the students of the department, using various multimedia technologies including Java Applets and Flash.  • Won the Best Website Design award out of 24 submitted projects in the departmental creativity competition in 2003. Education Master of Science in Computer Science Columbia University - New York, NY 2006 to 2008 Bachelor of Engineering in Software Engineering Beijing Institute of Technology - ??? 2002 to 2006 Skills Sun Certified Programmer for the Java Platform, Standard Edition 6 (SCJP), 2009