Sr. UI Developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Developer - Cerner Corp Arlington, TX • About 7+years of professional experience on complete SDLC life cycle including Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Deployment of major system.  • Having Experience on User Interface (UI) /Front End Developer in developing web applications using HTML4/5, CSS2/3, Bootstrap, XHTML, JavaScript, TypeScript, jQuery, NodeJS, Angular JS/2/4, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Extensive experience in HTML5 and CSS3 attractive features and worked on usability, accessibility and resolved cross browser issues.  • Proficient in using Bootstrap and CSS Media Query to create Responsive Web Designs (RWD)  • Worked on JavaScript frameworks such as AngularJS, Backbone.JS, React JS and used TypeScript for Angular2/4 for developing interactive web applications.  • Worked on JavaScript concepts such as Objects, Closures, Hoisting, Prototype, Callback, DOM manipulation, Prototype, Libraries.  • Extensive experience in developing model-view-controller (MVC) architecture by using AngularJS Framework to implement single page application (SPAs)  • Experienced on CSS Preprocessors like LESS, SASS and worked on different package managers like NPM, Bower and task runners like Gulp.  • Strong experience on SOAP, REST Web Services, and Applications of HTTP based RESTful APIs.  • Experienced on debugging/traffic inspecting tools like Firebug, Chrome or Safari web inspectors and worked on web servers such as JBoss, Apache Tomcat.  • Having Experience on Creating Logos, Banners, Buttons, Icons and Images using Adobe Flash, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver and Adobe Illustrator.  • Worked extensively with IDE's like Notepad++, Microsoft Visual Studio, Sublime text and Eclipse.  • Having good proficiency on RxJS Powered state management for Angular application inspired by Redux to achieve consistency with simplicity.  • Having good knowledge on database design and development using MySQL, SQL Queries, views, Triggers, Stored procedures, and No-SQL databases like MongoDB.  • Having strong proficiency in cloud platforms such as Azure, Amazon web services (AWS) and their services such as EC2, S3, etc.  • Proficient in writing TDD (Test Driven Development) by using test cases such as Jasmine and Karma for performing end to end Integration and Unit testing.  • Expertise in using the version control systems such as GIT and SVN, and project management tool - JIRA, and integration tool Jenkins. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. UI Developer Cerner Corp - Kansas City, MO March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked on front-end applications and the User Interactive (UI) web pages are developed using web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, Bootstrap and D3.js, Node JS, Angular.js framework.  • Involved in use of Angular 2.0 technologies to include, LESS and additional technologies to ensure current migration from Angular JS 1.6 to Angular 2.0.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Worked on different changed procedures of Angular 1.x to Angular 2.0 and updating Angular 2.0 with Angular 4 in POC.  • Implemented HTTP requests using Rx js Observable library to handle multiple values over time using $http service.  • Implemented Angular 2 services to connect the web application to back-end APIs to POST/GET the data used in the application.  • Worked on Angular 2.0 by consuming Restful web services & used Angular 2.0 forms like Template Driven forms and Modern Driven (Reactive) forms to perform form validations both on server and client side.  • Used REST client / POSTMAN to check the response of various API's, Swagger UI as a visual documentation for back-end implementation and client-side consumption.  • Developed Angular 2.0 components and services, implemented JWT authentication for communicating with REST services.  • Implemented Angular Router to enable navigation from one view to the next as agent performs application tasks.  • Tested Angular 4 forms like Template Driven forms and Reactive forms (Dynamic Forms) to perform form validations both on server and client side in POC.  • Designed and Implemented Angular 2 Components for assigned modules.  • Moved existing AngularJS controllers and services to Angular 2 components for more responsive and less dependency.  • Enhanced legacy application by building new components in Angular 2 and Typescript.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by angular 2.  • Worked with Angular 2 directives, components, pipes, injectables.  • Used Selectors, Events, AJAX and Dom Manipulation using components in Angular 2 for updating content on DOM nodes.  • Developed an advanced Facet search single page application using Angular JS with complete UI.  • Used Angular.JS 2 Http Request to read data from web servers and process JSON data to render in the UI.  • Used Node.js for writing server-side web application logic in JavaScript.  • Used Angular.JS 2 HTTP methods to retrieve employee task data from entity models.  • Wrote Swagger YAML documentation for Node Js services.  • Developed crypto rest services using Node JS and integrated services with HSM (Hardware Security Module  • Worked with Express.js for development of Restful web services and middleware configurations.    • Worked with Http Interceptors configurations for security in Angular 2.0 applications.  • Worked with Passport &JSON web tokens for authentication &authorization security configurations using Node.js.  • Worked with NPM commands and using package. json for managing dependencies and dev-dependencies of Node JS applications.  • Used jQuery plug-ins for Widgets, Menus, drag and drops, role based navigation menus (dynamic changes to the items  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, JQuery, AngularJS 2, Node JS, Backbone.js, AJAX, Tomcat Apache, Java Server Page, Usability Testing, TDD, Agile methodology, Sublime. Sr. UI Developer Kaiser Permanente - Pleasanton, CA April 2015 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involvement in all stages of Software development life cycle (SDLC) including Analysis, development, Implementation, testing and support.  • Responsible for developing the rich prototypes and dynamic browser compatible UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, TypeScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, Ajax and JSON using Angular framework.  • Involved in designing CSS templates for all pages on website by working on positioning, padding, borders, margins, table, backgrounds and transitions.  • Working on AJAX for implementing dynamic Webpages where the customers data was fetched via API calls and updated to the DOM.  • Involved in developing the web UI designs based on AngularJS, Node.js and Angular4 framework with extensive use of TypeScript, JSON and Ajax.  • Used Bootstrap for creating Responsive Web Design (RWD) to fit all users and devices from desktop to tablet and mobile phone, and have done data manipulations to display data in company standard format in UI.  • Designed dynamic client-side TypeScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Created the front-end web pages using Angular4, TypeScript on HTML5, CSS 3 to maintain performance.  • Worked on Angular4 Pipes, directives, routing, dependency injection, forms and Services for application functionality and used Angular4 templates which could be plugged into one HTML container, as every web page is an overlay on the Dashboard.  • Used Angular4 framework for fetching Data from the Server by offer Service to get JSON information to populate display from the server.  • Built GUI for few programs which were taking huge amounts of data from the databases like MONGODB and MS SQL in the back-end and displaying them on the client-side.  • Updated Customer claims and customer health plan pages using Bootstrap, HTML5 and CSS3 in Angular4 framework.  • GIT has been used as a version-controlling tool for tracking the changes to manage the module developments.  • Actively involved in the team on agile development process, and SCRUM to discuss the development of the application experience with JIRA task Board.  • Worked closely with other members in the team for understanding the technical requirements of the project as well as designing/developing in much better way.    Environment: Html/Html5, Css/Css3, Jquery, Javascript, Angularjs, Angular4, Bootstrap, Json, Xml, Restful Web Services, Node.Js, Responsive Web Design, Ajax, Agile, Svn, Mongodb, Internet Explorer, Google Chrome. UI Developer Santander Bank - Boston, MA February 2014 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked as a UI Developer, developed two different Web-based applications in a team and managed the developing of Account landing page layout, Account details, Login page using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS and NodeJS.  • Responsible for the overall layout design, color scheme of the web site using HTML5, XHTML and CSS3 and Responsible for creating detailed wire frames and process flows.  • Worked and improvised existing AngularJS application to follow strict MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance and layout of application.  • Involved in designing Single Page Application using AngularJS for applying Credit Card and user account details page using routers, controllers and directives to build the functionality and UI behavior.  • Modified existing Restful web services to support SPA model data needs in JSON format.  • Used custom Node.js proxy used to simulate API responses before client implementation was complete, and to proxy requests to finished client APIs, handling authentication, custom headers, virtual application root, etc.  • Collected and projected the fetched data into respective fields (textboxes, checkboxes, drop-down) using JSON objects.  • Experience using jQuery, Bootstrap plugins for the Webpages and worked with complete redesigns of a daily events website and focused on improving readability, utility, and overall UI.  • Used JavaScript for implementing client-side validations in various pages like registration forms, login and Account detail forms.  • Insert into NoSQL database by get input values from the survey related data using Mongo DB.  • Used various frameworks and libraries dynamically for developing the responsive and dynamic web pages such as Node.js, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Express.js and React JS.  • Utilized React JS Virtual DOM to update the webpage for faster load time and rendering.  • Developed unit test cases using Jasmine framework and Karma testing environment.  • Reviewed customer feedback about the debugging issues, fixed bugs with HTML5 and JavaScript codes.  • Managed and implemented all codes changes via SVN and used Agile methodology and SCRUM for software development.    Environment: Html5, Css3, Javascript, Jquery, Ajax, Bootstrap, Node.Js, Angularjs, React Js, Backbone.Js, Express.Js, Mongodb, Svn And Agile. UI Developer Keysight Technologies - Colorado Springs, CO December 2013 to January 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed Responsive User Interfaces (UI) and worked on Responsive web design (RWD) pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, AngularJS and Node.js. Worked extensively on designing CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible.  • Modified and Re-organized parts of the system, integrated it into a sub project with MVC (Angular JS), and created views to hook up Models to the DOM to synchronize data with server as a Single Page Application (SPA)  • Split the UI logic into Model, View and Controller using Angular.js architecture.  • Worked on AJAX and JSON for data transfer between client/server, and retrieving JSON data from AJAX and manipulating it to the DOM.  • Extensively Used Bootstrap and media queries to make data components responsive, and worked on Bootstrap plugins to build rich internet application (RIA)  • Worked on extending HTML attributes with directives and binding data to HTML with expressions.  • Experience on test-driven development, continuous integration systems, and Agile software development.  • Data- Binding concepts developed with controllers, filters, directives integrated with back-end services were extensively implemented using AngularJS.  • Date picker, Tabs, Switch, Slider, Accordion, Pagination and Dialog plugins of Bootstrap are used.  • Implemented a customized CSS theme for applying styles to the webpages.  • Faster responsive web pages were created by minimizing page load through adjustments, content analysis for UI performance improvements.  • Experienced in building enterprise/commercial SAAS applications. Worked in GIT version control systems.  • Involved in daily maintenance tasks related to website such as updating contents, automated backup, update plugins, checking page speed, improving user experience, etc.  • Dealt with old browsers cross compatibility issues.    Environment: Html/Html5, Css/Css3, Javascript, Jquery, Angularjs, React Js, Bootstrap, Saas, Json, Ajax, Dynamic Html, Agile Methodology And Git. UI Developer Tech Data Corporation - Clearwater, FL February 2012 to November 2013 Responsibilities:  • Created front-end template, components and prototype using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AngularJS, jQuery and Ajax to support the implementation of the user interface.  • Work together with plan and development groups to build Responsive culminate models for websites and mobile UI utilizing HTML, CSS and JavaScript framework AngularJS to use on different gadgets in different conditions.  • Utilized JavaScript for adding page functionality like pop up screens, hiding elements and tooltips to the existing application, and used HTML to make dropdown menus, hover and calendar on web pages.  • Built up the idea of AngularJS modals in website pages to get user input and request.  • Extensively used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) for developing the attractive HTML prototype of website.  • Accumulated data from API/ web services via AJAX-JSON calls and updating the DOM within the resulting area.  • Worked on Adobe Phone gap to make mobile applications using standardized web APIs for the different platforms.  • Used firebug, chrome developer tools and IE developer toolbar for troubleshooting JavaScript and code refactoring.  • Performed validation of completed sites including the debugging and testing of code.  • Used JBoss application server to deploy application into Production environment  • Actively interact with business stakeholders to understand their needs and translate those into design and code.  • Worked closely with back-end developers to find approaches to push the limits of existing Web technology in service of making the best user experience.  • Used GIT and SVN for Version Control.  Environment: Html, Css, Javascript, Angularjs, Bootstrap, Jquery, Xml, Jquery, Json, Ajax, Svn, Git, Adobe Phonegap, Jboss And Dom. Web Developer Vanguard - Malvern, PA July 2011 to January 2012 Responsibilities:  • Implemented the mock ups and the layouts of the application by working with Photoshop designers and system analyst.  • Designed and developed the web pages using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Dynamic and integrated web pages are created by using JavaScript.  • Involved in designing the templates and themes for the web application.  • Involved in designing and developing the new web components to improve the user experience by using CSS, JavaScript.  • Client side validation is done by using JavaScript.  • Involved in writing the properties and methods in modules by using the web services.  • Used various JQuery plug-in like Drag/drop, widgets, menus, color picker, auto complete, date picker, document slider to enhance the usability, functionality of the website  • Used HTML/DHTML, CSS, JavaScript to produce high performance, rich and user-friendly Web interface.  • Fixed bugs and provided support services for the application.  • Involved in unit testing and integration testing by interacting with third party codes.  • Created navigation lists using list elements in HTML.  • Worked on bootstrap components.  Environment: HTML, CSS, Photoshop, JavaScript, JQuery, Windows and Unix.. Education Bachelor's Skills BOOTSTRAP (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), jQuery (7 years), AJAX (6 years), ANGULARJS (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    WEB TECHNOLOGIES HTML/5, CSS/3, XML, XHTML, JAVASCRIPT, JSON, DOM, AJAX, SASS, LASS.  FRAMEWORKS ANGULARJS, ANGULAR 2/4/5, NODE.JS, EXPRESS.JS, BACKBONE.JS, BOOTSTRAP, JASMIN, KARMA.  LIBRARIES JQUERY, REACT JS, REDUX.  DATABASE/APPLICATION SERVER MYSQL, MONGODB / APACHE TOMCAT, JBOSS, FIREBASE.  IDE'S & EDITORS ECLIPSE, NOTEPAD++, SUBLIME TEXT, VISUAL STUDIO CODE, NETBEANS.  MULTIMEDIA APPLICATION ADOBE PHOTOSHOP, ADOBE FLASH, ADOBE ILLUSTRATOR.  VERSION CONTROL TOOLS GIT, SVN/SUBVERSION.    METHODOLOGIES AGILE, SCRUM, WATERFALL.