IT Software Developer IT Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> IT Software Developer - Thermal Structures Van Nuys, CA Work Experience IT Software Developer Thermal Structures - Corona, CA April 2019 to Present Fabric & Sample Template: CSS3    * Worked with the companies manufacturing manager and Bootstrap 3.0  supervisor for the Fabric Department to design and create HTML5  a Manufacturing organizational system for all templates  AJAX and samples. I used WinForms to write the application  utilizing C# and SQL connecting the two through Linq at MIDDLE TIER  my bosses request. ASP.Net    C#  APQP:  MVC  * I rebuilt the Engineering project management system from delfai to Winforms and c# that allows the engineering WebApi  manager to build and assign projects to engineers and ADO.Net  other faculty members.It also lets you set intervals and tasks for each project that is built. I recreated and updated LINQ  the SQL from MySQL to T-SQL for a cleaner and faster WPF  performance.  WinForms    Master Schedule: BACK END  * I built and designed a fully UI controlled table that collects Microsoft SQL Server, data from multiple tables and data sources including T-SQL  Epicor, it then combines and implement that data into MySQL  multiple different aspects to check on product  OTHER TECHNICAL  development and quality control. It allows the users to see  and edit all current and future orders. I used WinForms to TFS  write the application utilizing C# and SQL connecting the GIT  two through Linq and used custom built references to Agile/Scrum  access data from Epicor.  Methodologies Management Studio April 2018 to October 2018 Full Stack Developer BananaPad - Culver City, CA July 2017 to January 2018 BananaPad is an open-source note taking program designed for developers and other technical users. It supports multiple custom  note types (e.g. interactive HTML5 video transcription, Graphviz  graphs, to-do lists, Google maps, as well as rich-text editing). It is  constructed as a single-page application using modular AngularJS  components and relies on ASP.NET Web API services where necessary.  A user's notes are stored locally in IndexedDB, which ensures privacy  and security. Notes can selectively be synced and shared using the server. The application runs offline as a Progressive Web Application.  Speech-to-text and text-to-speech provide for easy dictation and reviewing of notes. Visual layout is done using CSS Flexbox and CSS  Grid.    Additional tools used in the project were Visual Studio, SQL Server customer service November 2012 to July 2017 often engaging with a variety of technologies and customer service issues.    HACKATHONS Full Stack Web Developer Third Party API - Pasadena, CA 2017 to 2017 SQL Server SSMCI Website 2017 to 2017 Worked with company designer and managers to do a full CERTIFICATES  mockup and remodel of the website including layout and Eagle Scout  design. Worked in multiple languages including  C#, Angular JS, Javascript, HTML and CSS3. I personally    created the Services and the Email-us page with my own  design input.  SurveyManager:    * I created a Custom email security feature using C# that  sent a code to your email to allow custom and secure login.  Updated survey manager so it would send surveys to the correct email. Updated survey manager so users could  login and create their own surveys. I used HTML, C#, JavaScript. I also updated different aspects of the web app  including moving data around between different tabs and finished the login feature that allows anyone that receives an invite to signup and login and create their own custom  surveys. I also refactored the survey portion of the web  app.    Secopr:  * Was directed by the owner of the company to update the search engine to make it go from a couple of minutes to a  about 30 seconds using SQL and JavaScript. Helped fix the Search form for the front and backend using javascript and  C# as well as a little angularjs. Member Service Rep Costco WholeSale - Bakersfield, CA 2017 to 2017 Automobility Los Angeles 24-Hour Hackathon by Honda 2017 to 2017 Innovations    My team's challenge was to develop an application that addressed a current and dangerous issue in LA using their database's information and implementing it in a way that makes city life safer and more  efficient. Our team's project was to implement a device into the Waze  navigation system to warn drivers of oncoming cyclists to avoid  hitting them. My main responsibility was to create the foundation  using Waze and Google APIs to create the maps and routes for cyclists. Links http://linkedin.com/in/joseph-ni http://github.com/JosephNiccoli