ServiceNow Admin ServiceNow Admin ServiceNow Admin - WireFly Tempe, AZ • A Qualified IT Professional with 7+ years of experience as Service-Now developer and administrator.  • Experience in Health, Insurance, Finance, E-commerce and Automobile domain.  • Experience with ServiceNow Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in two projects.  • Exposure to Service-Now platform tools like Discovery and Orchestration Environment.  • Extensive experience of integrating ServiceNow with 3rd party tools and implantation of SOAP and REST API.  • Performed several Integrations like LDAP, SSO, JIRA, Workday, Slack, Tanium and Remedy.  • Hands on Experience with ITSM, ITAM, ITOM, GRC and related topics and modules.  • Experience with networking devices and Mobile services.  • In-depth knowledge of the technical implementation of Discovery, Incident Management, Change Management, Risk Management, Problem management, Knowledge Management, Configuration Management, Service Portal Service Catalog, Reporting, Integrations, LDAP, Altars, SAML 2.0, SCCM, SSO, and CMDB.  • Involved in Geneva and Helsinki up gradation and worked on Geneva, Helsinki and Istanbul Versions.  • Good experience in developing workflows in customizing applications in ServiceNow using JAVA Script, Jelly, XML and HTML.  • Experienced with networking concepts like proxy servers and Firewalls.  • Worked on ServiceNow Discovery Module, comfortable deploying discoveries in a multi-datacenter environment and Proven ServiceNow implementation experience.  • Wrote Catalog client scripts and UI policies to make client side changes.  • Managed all aspects of the Service Catalog application, including scripting functions such as creating UI macros, Business rules and UI pages.  • Create and maintain API and data integration between ServiceNow and other services.  • Expertise in Multiple CMS tools (Jelly, Glide) and implementing systems using the Agile/Scrum and Waterfall methodology.  • Experience in database design using PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and strong experience in writing complex queries for Oracle.  • Developed SQL Loader control programs, interfaces and PL/SQL validation scripts to transfer flat file data into oracle database.  • Experience in using JavaScript, J2EE, JSP, Hibernate, JMS, JSF, XML, HTML, AJAX and web based tools. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ServiceNow Admin WireFly - Reston, VA April 2016 to Present Description  Developing a Facilities Application which makes ease for all the users in WireFly to request for different services by accessing through a single form. Requesters raise the Work orders for their requests and Coordinator assigns the Work orders for the Fulfillers to fulfill them. The same Application is developed for the Tablet and Mobile users as well which reduces the work of fulfillers to access the work  orders without logging into the instance when they are around the campus.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering the requirements from the Business Team and creation of technical, functional specification documents.  • Implementation of different modules of ServiceNow as per requirements and ITIL process - Incident Management, Problem Management, Change Management, Asset Management and Service Catalogs.  • Developing integrations both inbound and outbound. SOAP & REST.  • Setting up Mid-Servers for outbound integrations.  • Created ACL's to grant access to specified users and managing the assignment rules.  • Moving Update sets from non-production to production.  • Upgrading instance from Eureka to Fuji. Upgrading instance from Fuji to Geneva.  • Cloning of production instances to non-production instances.  • Performing by weekly releases in production. LDAP, Initial Data Loads, Import Sets, automated integrations and address exceptions.  • Customizations in ServiceNow forms as per client's requirement.  • Involved in redesigning the workflows using ServiceNow workflow editor.  • Worked on migration between various ServiceNow environments using Update Sets.  • Worked on loading the data into ServiceNow using Import Sets.  • Worked on Configuration and maintenance of Business Rules (Basic and Advanced), Client Scripts and UI Policies in ServiceNow.  • Involved in creating and configuring the SLAs as per the requirement.  • Responsible for the acceptance, identification, storage and withdrawal of all supported CIs.  • Responsible for ensuring that all the CIs are registered and these records are correct and up to date.  • Troubleshooting HPOO and SCOM agent related issues.  • User Interface - Configure and maintain Forms, Lists, Views, UI Policy, UI Scripts, UI Actions, View Rules, Welcome Page Content, Map Pages and other UI elements for ServiceNow modules.  • Development of Service catalog - catalog items, designing workflows and execution plans.  • Worked on CMDB and populated the CMDB by importing the data of IT assets into the system, centralizing the information.  • Involved in reconciliation of complicated workflows to simpler form.  • Configured multiple Catalog Items Front-end web / GUI components using JavaScript, CSS, HTML5.  Environment: ServiceNow, JavaScript, HTML 5, Windows 7, HTML, XML, JSP, JSF, Struts, CSS ServiceNow Dev/Admin ADOC - McLean, VA August 2014 to March 2016 Description  A dispatch software which is used to streamline order entry, dispatching and billing. It's a powerful system for timely and accurate billing not only helps to streamline operation but it also helps to increase cash flow. ADOC helps to build customer profile, compile price tables using actual driving distance and print customer bills. Some of its features include:    Order Entry/Dispatch and billing, Built-in mapping and routing, most accurate zip to zip driving distance ready to be used for pricing, Scheduling and Routing, built in caller and reference names, Look Up buttons for most required field, Complaint sheet to record customers' issues on every delivery  Responsibilities:    • Created many standard workflows which are being re-used and propagated and handled many custom events.  • Worked on troubleshooting security rules, scripts etc.  • Created UI Actions/ UI Policies in customizing forms and buttons.  • Used ACL's for controlling the security mechanism in Service Now.  • Implemented different Integrations using web-services / MID Server, etc.  • Involved in Server side scripting using Script Includes.  • Used Update sets to move customization from Development to Production Instance.  • Worked on Incident Management, Problem Management, Change Management, Release Management,  • Knowledge Management, and Asset management, CMDB, Service Requests and SLM.  • Analyzed and fully understood the user requirements and current procedures to improve system capabilities, automated process workflows and address scheduling limitations throughout the development and delivery of the ServiceNow roadmap.  • Worked on upgrading the version from Eureka to Fuji, Fuji to Geneva, Geneva to Helsinki and Helsinki to Istanbul.  • Used Web Technologies like XML, HTML.  • Used Active Directory, LDAP and Single Sign-On (SSO) Integration  • Supported the team in ServiceNow operations like User/ Group administration, reporting, Metrics, SLAs, etc.    • Used Knowledge articles, incidents, CMDB and dictionaries.  • Created transform maps-both automatic field mapping and scripting.  • Build and conduct pre-production of new controls in ServiceNow.  • Developed UI Actions, script includes and Business rules for overall platform.    Environment: XML, HTML, Windows 7, Service Now, CSS, AJAX. UI Developer PRISM X - Sterling, VA May 2013 to August 2014 Description  The PRISM Suite offers procurement and grant solutions for Federal Civilian, Defense and Intelligence agencies. PRISM is a web-architected, COTS solution that has kept pace with the latest Federal requirements. A true web application with proven interoperability, PRISM simplifies the process of connecting users around the globe and sharing data between systems. This comprehensive procurement management tool increases productivity across the procurement process from requisitioning to closeout, minimizes data entry, and maximizes efficiency through electronic routing, workflow, and workload management    Responsibilities  • Involved in building prototypes based on business requirement which included cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant HTML/CSS layouts.  • Developed additional features including data retrieval, client information dynamic update, etc. using JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, JSON and CSS.  • Utilized HTML, CSS, JavaScript lib (jQuery) to work around default browser settings and improved web page styling and layout.  • Worked in a collaborative and agile environment with minimal supervision in cross-functional teams with product managers and other developers.  • Used regular expression check methods to conduct input check.  • Requested and got data from backend using Ajax call in jQuery to exchange JSON data with back-end.  • At later stage of the project, added responsive features using Bootstrap for more user-friendly experience and mobile-app.  • Used SVN and GIT for version control.  • Modified and updated UI pages rapidly after received new requirement from clients.  • Focused on Cross-browser feature of pages. Implemented tests on Chrome, Firefox, IE 7/8/9 with Chrome Developer Tools and Firebug. Fixed bugs and optimized JavaScript codes.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, SVN, Bootstrap Web Developer United Health Group September 2010 to May 2013 Description:  UnitedHealth Group is a distinctively diversified health and well-being company headquartered in the United States, and a leader worldwide in helping people live healthier lives and helping make the health  System work better for everyone.    Responsibilities:  * Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation within the forms.  * Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  * Developed HTML prototypes and UI deliverables, such as wireframes, storyboards, flowcharts, screen mock-ups, and interface design specifications.  * Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, Wire-framing, HTML5 and Created XHTML Pages with CSS and the Box Model.  * Using advanced level of JQUERY, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts with media quires and keyframes.  * Provide user interface design for Web-based projects, including dashboards, widgets, and products. Designed PDF, Excel and Print previews for all the reports in the application using HTML, JavaScript.  * Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  * Involved in writing application level code to perform client side validation with feedback icons using bootstrap and JQuery.  * Developed cross-browser compatible website using HTML5, CSS3, and jQuery.  * Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.    Environment: JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, DHTML, XSLT, SSAS, SQL, Bootstrap, Ajax Education Diploma in Computer and Commercial Practice Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana Bachelor of Commerce in Commerce Osmania University India Diploma in Computer and Commercial Practice in DCCP State Board of Technical Education and Training Skills AJAX. (5 years), Change Management (3 years), CSS (7 years), HTML (7 years), JavaScript (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Service Now  Change Management, Incident Management, Problem Management, Service Catalog, Integration with Third Party Tools, Configuration Management, Reporting, Discovery and Integrations, Airwatch, Client Side and Server Side Scripting, Client & Server API's, LDAP, ACL's, ADDM, SSO, Glide Aggregate, Glide Record, Administration, Reporting, Email Notifications, Creating/Editing Home pages, Personalizing Forms.    Business Analysis  Requirement analysis, business rules, data flow diagram, flowcharts, business process modeling & improvement, functional requirement Analysis, source to target mappings, gap analysis, cause and effect analysis, decision tree.    Processes Model Tools  MS Office Suite 9X/2000/XP (PowerPoint, Word, Excel, Access, and Outlook), Novell GroupWise, Banner, Lotus Notes, MS Outlook, MS Project, MS Visio, Windows, Unix, JavaScript, Perl and PowerShell.    Methodologies Agile Modeling, SDLC model, Waterfall model, Spiral model.  Test Tools Test Director, Mercury, Silk Testing, Win Runner and Load Runner.  Databases Oracle 10g/9i/8i/8.0/7.0, Disaster recovery, MS Access 7.0/2000, SQL, XML, HTML, PL/SQL, AJAX, CSS and HTTP.