GIS Application Developer GIS Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> GIS Application Developer - Oregon Department of Forestry Yarmouth, ME I'm a security-minded software engineer with an interest in GIS looking to work in a collaborative environment. I'm also willing to work remotely. Work Experience GIS Application Developer Oregon Department of Forestry - Salem, OR April 2017 to Present Developed and supported several applications both on my own and in several different  teams using ASP.NET MVC as well as Angular.  ? Worked with the GIS unit to create a custom wildfire incident reporting application to access the agency's data using ESRI's Javascript API.  ? Worked with Web APIs for communicating with Active Directory for authentication and user information.  ? Received professional training in Angular 2+, ASP.NET MVC, DevOps, and .NET Web  Security as well learning and using ArcMap, ArcGIS Javascript API, and Python to perform  various job functions. Software Engineer Distillery Solutions - Westminster, CO September 2014 to April 2017 I was the primary engineer tasked to rebuild a procedurally programmed distillery  management application into an object-oriented application.    ? Upon completion the application was maintained using Agile principles in our team which enabled us to develop a sister application for breweries.  ? Managed multiple remote servers in a Linux environment in addition to the Git repository  through command line and BitBucket.  ? Collaborated with my colleagues to design the MySQL database of the rewritten distillery  application and for the brewery application.  ? Worked remotely for half a year and maintained great communication with my team  through Jira.  ? Used multiple third-party frameworks and technologies for the brewery application  including Propel, React, jQuery, and Riot. Web Application Developer Softrip - Fort Washington, PA January 2013 to September 2014 Maintained a travel reservation CMS written in Visual Basic .NET.  ? Used skills in VB.NET, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, and MS SQL. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science and Computer Security East Stroudsburg University - East Stroudsburg, PA August 2010 to December 2012 Associate in Computer Science Northampton Community College - Bethlehem, PA August 2008 to June 2010 Skills API, C#, Git, JAVASCRIPT, TYPESCRIPT, Angular, Asp.net MVC, Python Additional Information SKILLS    ? C# ? ASP.NET MVC ? Web API  ? MS SQL (T-SQL) ? Microsoft TFS ? ESRI JS API  ? JavaScript ? Git ? MySQL  ? TypeScript ? VB.NET ? Linux  ? Angular v2+ ? PHP ? Apache  ? React