RPA Developer RPA <span class="hl">Developer</span> RPA Developer - Fujitsu Consulting India • 6 years of total experience and around 2.4 years of work experience in IT analysis, design, development, deployment, documentation and implementation of projects using Robotic Process Automation.  • Holding RPA developer diploma certificate in UiPath.  • Good hands on in Blue prism, automated time consuming complex manual processes precisely and efficiently.  • Capable of analyzing the root cause of any issue in a quick manner.  • Development experience in Browser, Excel, and SAP based applications using Blue prism.  • Strong experience in analyzing scenarios for automation purpose, creating Processes and Business objects using Blue Prism. Created PDD, SDD.  • Having knowledge of internal business object of Blue Prism like Collection, Work queues, exception handling.  • Experience of working in Agile Methodology.  • An Accomplished webpage programmer in Core PHP using Open Text 'Teamsite' Plat form. Developed user-facing elements and all server-side logic for integrating the front-end elements.  • Good knowledge on front-end technologies, such as JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3 Responsive, JSON and object oriented PHP programming.  • Familiarity with SQL/MySQL databases and their declarative query languages. Proficient understanding of code.  • Knowledge on content management like, creating reusable containers and templates for web pages.  • In depth knowledge of web technologies and standards to deliver the best experiences across web and mobile devices including responsive Web UI. Work Experience RPA Developer Fujitsu Consulting India December 2016 to Present December 2016 - Till Now    * Working in developing Automatic processes for Fujitsu Australia Oceania GDC, Fujitsu, using Blue Prism    Position * RPA Developer  Processes  * MIS Results Summary Report  * Other Cost Details Report  * Change Weekly Backlog  * Price book creation    Responsibilities  * Worked on creation of PDD.  * Creating business objects and designing the process through Blue Prism.  * Used various functions available in Blue Prism like Navigator, Action, Multi Calculation, Collection, Read and Write stages.  * Used various in-built objects in Blue Prism such as Internal -Work Queues, Internal - Collections, Utility -File Management, and Utility -Collection Manipulation, MS Excel VBO etc.  * Developed macros for handling complex excel actions  * Extensive development experience with Browser, SAP based applications.  * Mentoring new team members.  * Coordinating with onsite team and providing them daily status.    About Few processes:    * MIS Results Summary Report    Bot downloads SAP Actuals and Forecast report, merge it with MIS report of previous month and compare the result with values in SAP GUI, to upload the MIS report in SharePoint location of BW reports.    * Other Cost Details Report    Bot downloads previous month revenue report from sharepoint location, using the data from excel as input a transaction is executed in SAP. Executed transaction generates a report which would be merged again with previous month file and done calculation for current month revenue and updated in sharepoint location at the end. PHP Web Page Developer November 2015 to November 2016 * Worked in developing static and dynamic pages for Bayer Pharmaceutical Websites using Open text Teamsite.  * Open text Teamsite uses combination of Perl, XML and PHP to create reusable containers, components, teasers, banners and templates for the pages and components which look similar in design.  * Also the pages developed were responsive, which are supported in devices such as iPad, Tablets and Smart Phones.  * Good understanding of AJAX and JavaScript Dom manipulation Techniques.  * Implemented complex AngularJS concepts. (applications, directives, controllers, services).  * Good knowledge in HTML, CSS, and writing cross-browser compatible code.  * Also, developed webpages which populates from database using PHP and MySQL.  * Awarded Spot Light for work efficiency and for delivering the work on or before time with best quality. SQL Programmer October 2015 to October 2015 * Worked in Perpetual, an Australian Banking Sector for managing the Bank transactions and Maintenance of Accounts.  * Programmed cursors and Store procedures to update and maintain the account balance and transaction details in SQL Server. PHP Web Page Developer Bayer Pharmaceutical Websites February 2014 to September 2015 Supported more than 20 Bayer Pharmaceutical Websites which were either static or dynamic.  Worked on Teamsite CMS Framework, creating templates and containers for web pages, so that it can be reused.  * Webpages were responsive i.e., developed websites were supported in Mobiles, Tablets and iPad using responsive CSS.    * Professional History Continued Classic ASP Web Page Developer Transport Roaster March 2013 to January 2014 Supported the applications which were internally used in Fujitsu Consulting India.  All these applications were consolidated together in Single Portal called Reqtrack developed using Classic ASP.  * Supported applications like, Transport Roaster, IT Item management, PF, Full and Final, Training request System, Project Management System, IMG Portal, etc.  * Worked on all aspects of these applications such as Database Tables and stored procedures, designing the pages using HTML, JavaScript, jQuery and CSS and also wrote the logic of the pages in Classic ASP and ASP.Net as well. Education BE in Computer Science and Engineering Anna University Chennai - Chennai, TAMIL NADU, IN 2008 to 2012 HSC Sirumalar Girls Higher Secondary School - Madurai, Tamil Nadu, IN 2008 SSLC Sirumalar Girls Higher Secondary School - Madurai, Tamil Nadu, IN 2006 Additional Information * Technical Skills    Languages: Classic ASP, Core PHP, C, C++, C#, ASP .Net, VBA, VB.Net  RDBMS: MySQL, SQL  Client Side Scripting: JavaScript, HTML  Operating System: Windows  Source Control Tools: SVN  RPA Tools: UiPath Basics, Blue Prism  IDE: Visual Studio, Open Text Teamsite