Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Freelance Junior Web Developer , proficient in HTML & CSS, Wordpress , Bootstrap and Photoshop. El Cajon, CA Wordpress Site   dannyespitia.com    Web Design Portfolio on Github  https://iamcoding.github.io/    Experienced Web Developer with a demonstrated history of working in the film and web development  industry. Skilled in Atom(text editor) Adobe Suite, Wordpress, Web Design, CSS, HTML, Bootstrap. Final Cut Pro  X. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Addax Electric - Santee, CA October 2018 to Present Redesigned the companies website , which brought in more clients to the business.  Manage and edit the website . Maintenance Technician San Diego State University May 2017 to Present Freelance Web Developer El Cajon, CA January 2017 to Present Freelance Videographer Freelance/Self employed - Oxnard, CA February 2011 to January 2019 Freelance videographer, capture special moments for events ; weddings, sweet 16's, portrait  photoshoots and graduation ceremonies. skills on video editing, video archiving, marketing sales,  customer support.    iPad Deployment Web Administrator The Water Conservation Garden - El Cajon, CA May 2018 to November 2018 Manage digital design projects, write code using HTML & CSS.  Modify Existing Web Pages.  Edit, create images using Photoshop CS6.  Fine tune content and images.  Work closely with the creative team to develop and produce a website experience for Members and Non-Members.  Develop and drive editorial strategies and content for events, classes, and tours.  Work with Development Director and Education Manager.  Maintain design workflow, processes and project management establishing priorities and meeting  deadlines. Online Sales Ohexx - Oxnard, CA May 2010 to January 2018 Developed profitable online business model.  Respond to all customer inquiries thoroughly and professionally.  Answer customer questions about product availability, description, returns and shipment times.  Understand and develop sources of traffic.(email, SEO, affiliates, social media).  Manage to maintain 100% positive feedback.  Produce reports to analyze performance of online online marketing with (google analytics, google  adsense)  Update product information and content On website, Photograph, price and prepare items.    Logs of transactions, cost and profits Computer Technician Oxnard Elementary School District - Oxnard, CA January 2015 to August 2015 Set Up Imaging, configuration, email setup over 22,000 iPads, Apple Tvs, Laptops and Desktops.  Extensive use of Apple Configurator  Troubleshoot iPads.  Install Protective Survivor case on iPads.  Report; keep inventory of damaged iPads.  Configure Ipads and laptops to Districts WLAN.  Instructed staff on how to use iOS, laptops, tablets, promethean boards.  Back up/restore iPads. Education Associate's degree in Web Development Cuyamaca College 2018 Computer Science / Communications Oxnard college 2012 to 2014 Skills HTML 5 (1 year), CSS3 (1 year), Bootstrap (1 year), Photoshop (1 year), Google Analytics (4 years), Final Cut Pro (6 years), Project Management (5 years), Web Design (1 year), Wordpress (Less than 1 year), SEO (5 years), Sales Management (6 years), Adobe Illustrator (Less than 1 year), Adobe CC, Javascript, HTML5 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/daniel-espitia-4000a6b3/ https://iamcoding.github.io Additional Information  To whom it may concern,  I am currently a student at Cuyamaca College, I am majoring in Web Development and have been searching for a position in the hopes of expanding my on the job experiences and improving my technical skills. My course focus is primarily on Web Development.  I recently volunteered at The Water Conservation Garden where I honed my skills in Wordpress , HTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, Javascript/Jquery and Adobe Photoshop. At the Garden I oversaw the website and managed posts, news articles , workshop classes and photography for the organization. I am a team player, enjoy working with people and forming new close working relationships with those working with me. I am extremely organized and enjoy reaching the completion stages, learning new technologies & finishing tasks at hand. I believe that my high work ethic and social abilities are what are needed in order to fulfill the employer needs ensuring an enjoyable work environment. I thank you for your time and consideration today and very much look forward to hearing from you.  Link to Portfolio https://iamcoding.github.io/  Wordpress dannyespitia.com