Full Stack Web Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Web Developer - Cosmic Surf City Costa Mesa, CA • Full Stack Web Developer with 3+ years of experience developing apps and websites.  • Experience using both Angular and React frameworks.  • Strong background using jQuery in RESTful API components that involve DOM Traversal, Event Handling, and AJAX calls.  • Uses Test Driven Development methods because it is the simplest way to achieve both good quality code and good test coverage.  • GitHub: github.com/tylersweeney Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Web Developer Cosmic Surf City - Huntington Beach, CA April 2019 to Present • Developed a full Shopify store and customized theme and layout.  • Convert old static ecommerce site into a responsive Shopify store with React.js elements  • Create custom Shopify theme  • Photoshop and edit product images  Technologies used: React, Node, Liquid, Javascript Owner/Operator, Web Dev, SEO Manager ChemDry of Irvine - Costa Mesa, CA July 2012 to April 2019 • Aside from daily operations and managing employees I also handled the web development and SEO strategies or my company.  • Designed and implemented promotions and coupons, add them to the site, and create AdWords campaigns, quarterly and for major holidays.  • Analyzed and assessed the performance of campaigns and translate quantitative and qualitative data into actionable recommendations.  • Drove traffic and increased ROI for our accounts via competitive analysis, and keyword research. Full Stack Web Developer, SEO Manager ACRB Supply Co - Haiku, HI January 2017 to August 2018 • Daily operations and managing employees, also handled the web development and SEO strategies or my company.   • Designed and implemented promotions and coupons In Photoshop, add them to the site using HTML and CSS  • Designed and built pages for new services using HTML, CSS, and Javascript.   • Structured HTML tags. Meta description, and headers with SEO optimization in mind and scaled upward.  • Redesigned site in React.js and was adding GraphQL features before selling company. Education Certificate University of California Irvine - Irvine, CA September 2017 to April 2018 Skills Ajax (3 years), Bootstrap (3 years), Css (5 years), Firebase (3 years), Git (2 years), Html (5 years), Javascript (3 years), jquery (3 years), Mongodb (2 years), Mysql (2 years), Web design (10+ years), Android, HTML 5 (5 years), React, Node, Angular, Nodejs, Java Links http://github.com/tylersweeney http://www.tylersweeney.com Certifications/Licenses Full Stack Web Developer Certification Present 24 Week Intensive Web developer course