Lead Web Developer -ShareSpace Lead <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> -ShareSpace Lead Web Developer -ShareSpace - ReactJS, Firebase Seattle, WA Work Experience Lead Web Developer -ShareSpace ReactJS, Firebase January 2019 to Present https://sburd36.github.io/sharespace/  • Worked with Seattle local organizations and advocates on leveraging current housing platform for women leaving domestic violence situation.  • Implemented front-end components (ReactJS) and back-end logic (Firebase).  • Won the iCapstone 2019 Service Award out of 130+ capstone teams.  Skills: HTML, CSS, ReactJS, JSX, Material-UI, Firebase, RESTful API Full-Stack Web Developer (Go, JavaScript) January 2019 to March 2019 • Designed web architecture and developed full-stack collaborative drawing and coding environment using ReactJS, Go, Docker, and Redis. https://github.com/my828/DCode  • Designed and developed messaging web app by tracking user session and authentication using token, deploying to AWS, and connecting to MYSQL database using Go and Docker.  • Implemented channel and messages microservices using NodeJS and MongoDB.  • Stored, managed, and retrieved users' IDs with trie data structure.  Skills: ReactJS, NodeJS, AWS, Docker, websockets, RabbitMQ, microservice, RESTful API Web Developer World Food Travel Association - Seattle, WA January 2018 to June 2018 ·   A travel website that focus on traveler’s experience when exploring new places.   ·   Designed code structure and handled front-end development on home and user pages.                                  Skills: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ReactJS, Bootstrap, ES6, Design, User Research Element leader US Air Force (Training) - San Antonio, TX December 2015 to January 2016 Supervised and lead fellow trainees through day-to-day trainings. Server Boiling Point - Seattle, WA February 2013 to November 2015 • Maximized teamwork and efficiency by communicating between the customers, kitchen, servers, and manager.  • Handled and completed multiple tasks under stressful and fast-paced work environment.    Skills Programming Languages: Java (proficient), JavaScript (proficient), Python (proficient), Go (intermediate)  Other: Git, Github, Docker, SQL, MySQL, HTML, CSS, ReactJS, NodeJS, MongoDB, D3, Tableau, Data visualization Education Bachelor of Science in Informatics in Computer Programming University of Washington - Seattle, WA January 2017 to June 2019 Associate of Business in Business North Seattle College September 2013 to June 2015 Skills HTML5, Front End, Javascript, Reactjs (2 years), SQL (1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/minyang828