UX/UI Designer UX/UI Designer UX Designer/ Web Developer San Francisco, CA A highly creative and well-rounded individual with a talent for visually bringing ideas to life. 10+ years of experience in Front-End Web Development, User Experience Design, WordPress Development, and Digital Consulting. Consistently inspiring others through visual art + impacting the world in a positive way.     Key Skills:   User Experience Design, User Interface Design, Interaction Design, Graphic Design, User Research and Analysis, Usability Testing, Remote User Testing, WordPress Design, Logo Design, Product & Services Design, Branding & Strategy, Responsive Design, Mobile Applications, Corporate Identity, Wire-framing and Prototyping.     Lived and worked on various web projects in Mexico, Ecuador, Peru, Colombia, and Thailand. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UX/UI Designer eOasia (Contract) - Bangkok, Thailand October 2018 to January 2019 • Re-designed responsive travel blog in WordPress.   • Developed UX/ UI visual web design concepts.   • Produced storyboards, scenarios, and user flows.   • Implemented plugins, templates, and modules. Web Designer/ Developer Hiler & Kohlbrenner (Contract) - San Francisco, CA May 2018 to October 2018 • Responsible for creating corporate brand & identity.   • Created (design & code) website with WordPress.   • Developed CMS using PHP, HTML, and CSS   • Provided digital strategy, training, and support. WordPress Developer Performance Imports (Contract) - San Bruno, CA March 2018 to May 2018 • Developed digital footprint for existing business.   • Applied conceptual thinking to web frameworks.   • Created (design & code) website with WordPress.   • Branding: logo design, stationaries, business cards. Creative Director Independent Film Co. (Contract) - Los Angeles, CA June 2017 to September 2017 • Contributed to in-house creative projects.   • Produced digital framework for SEO web content.   • Designed templates in CSS, HTML and Javascript.   • Created (design & code) promotional landing pages. Web Designer/ Developer Freelance/Self employed November 2014 to June 2017 • Designed websites for a variety of hostels around the world.  • Developed media and internet marketing plans for small businesses.  • Managed social media and search engine optimization campaigns. General Manager Sky 9 Interactive Studios - Oxford, MS October 2013 to March 2014 • Worked independently to develop business policies and procedures.  • Consulted with vendors to ensue the timely delivery of products.  • Implemented training course for new employees - drove performance. Website Developer Grand Global Media - Hollywood, FL July 2010 to April 2013 • Designed websites, mobile apps, and logos for a variety of companies.  • Worked on multiple projects at one time and met strict deadlines.  • Communicated with business owners and presented sales proposals. Education Bachelor's in Management Information Systems The University of Mississippi - Oxford, MS August 2016 to May 2020 User Experience Certification General Assembly (Online) - San Francisco, CA February 2019 to April 2019 Associate's Degree in Business Administration Florida State College - Jacksonville, FL August 2008 to December 2009 Skills Wordpress (10+ years), User Experience Design (5 years), User Interface Design (5 years), Graphic Design (10+ years), Logo Design (10+ years), Brand Development (10+ years), Web Design (10+ years), Web Development (10+ years), Creative Suite (10+ years) Links http://www.kendricsmith.com https://www.linkedin.com/in/kendric-smith/ Additional Information KEY SKILLS  • Ability to communicate professionally and effectively.  • Excellent teambuilding and interpersonal skills.  • Proficient with Microsoft Word, Powerpoint, and Excel.  • Flexible, reliable and dependable hard-worker.  • Motivated self-starter with a strong desire to learn.    KENDRICSMITH1@GMAIL.COM  945 Taraval St. #186 • San Francisco, CA • (415) 316-8314