Test Engineer Test Engineer Full Stack Web Developer Austin, TX I am a full-stack web developer focused on the MERN stack. I am looking for an entry-level position that will allow me to expand and strengthen my skill set. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Test Engineer Exova Materials Testing - Houston, TX April 2015 to May 2016 Conducted corrosion testing to industry and customer specific requirements. This included meeting with customers, preparing test plans, executing tests, and preparing reports. R&D Technologist TMK - Houston, TX December 2011 to June 2014 Assisted in starting new metallurgical testing laboratory. Tasks included: commissioning of new equipment, training new personnel, and writing test procedures compliant to industry standards.  • Managed and executed several test plans simultaneously to support internal and external customers.  • Attained ISO 17025 lab certification Web Developer University of Texas at El Paso - El Paso, TX March 2009 to September 2010 Developed online courses for the UT system. Development included meeting with professors to plan and convert traditional class content into HTML e-learning modules.  • Created how-to websites for students and faculty on how to use new software tools.  • Implemented audience response systems in large classrooms, and trained professors on their use. Education Certification in Full Stack Web Development UT Austin - Austin, TX December 2018 to June 2019 Certification in Android Development Udacity October 2016 to October 2017 BS in Metallurgical Engineering University of Texas at El Paso - El Paso, TX August 2002 to May 2006 Skills Java (1 year), Android (1 year), SQL (Less than 1 year), Javascript (1 year), NodeJS (Less than 1 year), ReactJS (Less than 1 year), MongoDB (Less than 1 year), HTML/CSS (2 years), MySQL (Less than 1 year), JQuery (1 year), REST API's (Less than 1 year), Git / Github, Project Management Links http://linkedin.com/in/nitesh-desai http://github.com/ndgithub http://www.niteshdesai.com