Full Stack Web Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Web Developer - CVS Louisville, KY • 8 years of expertise experience as a Full stack .Net Developer for performing Client/Server, Web Applications and Windows Applications using Microsoft technologies and .NET framework.  • Experience in interacting with Clients and Users for gathering requirements.  • Proficient knowledge in .NET languages C#, ASP.NET( Web Forms and MVC), VB.NET and Win Forms, WPF.  • Strong understanding of OOPS concepts like Inheritance, Polymorphism, Abstraction & Encapsulation and design implementations using UML.  • Experience in Designing and Developing Webpage Graphic User Interface (GUI) using HTML/HTML5,  CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS.  • Experience of Cross Browser Compatibility with updating webpage using HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, JavaScript  and jQuery with great involvement towards AngularJS, React JS and Node.js MVC frameworks.  • Strong knowledge in using Object Oriented Programming concepts in JavaScript and JavaScript Design Pattern.  • Solid working experience with Model View Controller (MVC) in Implementing View, Model, Controller and View model by using ASP.Net MVC Framework 5.0/4.0/3.0  • Strong experience in design of web-based applications using ASP.NET 4.5/4.0/3.5/2.0, C# 4.5/4.0/3.0/2.0, VB.NET, AJAX, Master Pages, SharePoint Server, Web Services, Windows services and Server Controls. Incorporated many rich, user friendly, responsive features in the application using Angular JS, BOOTSTRAP, HTML5.  • Experience hosting web applications in IIS, developing applications using the ASP.NET MVC.  • Solid experience in Client side frameworks Angular JS, Knockout JS, JavaScript.  • Expertise in AngularJS controllers, directives, components, factory and service resources, routings, filters & events.  • Expertise in developing Client/Server Applications on various architectural design patterns including MVC 3.0/4.0, Razor View engine,Two-Tier & Three Tier Architecture.  • Involved in Creating Two Tired Authentication for preventing fraud.  • Working Knowledge on Linux based system administration.  • Hand some experience on Open source Technologieslike My Sql, Q mail, C, C++ and Linux.  • Experience in designing, developing and consume ASP.Net web services and WCF Services to achieve Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Experience in development of ASP.NET Web Forms using HTML5, Telerik controls, jQuery and communicated with database using WCF service.  • Worked on C# and ADO.net for developing windows applications as well as developing the web applications using Language Integrated Query (LINQ).  • Experience in using message brokers suchas Active MQ and Rabbit MQ.  • Involved in writing TSQL queries to get data from different sources and test results.  • Proficiency in multiple databases like MongoDB, MySQL, ORACLE and MS SQL Server.  • Migrated Database from SQL Databases (Oracle and SQL Server) to NO SQL Databases (MONGODB)  • Extensive experience in development and optimizing of Queries using SQL Query Analyzer, Stored Procedures and Triggers.  • Worked extensively with SQL server database of creating, updating and insertion of tables and indexes.  • Involved in writing Test plans, Test cases and interacted with business users to conduct User Acceptance Testing (UAT).  • Experienced in reporting tools like Crystal Reports and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Skilled in creating test traceability matrix, test strategy, test plan, test procedures, test cases, test log, automated test scripts, test results and defect reporting.  • Strong hands on experience in manual testing and automated testing using Quality center and Quick Test Pro.  • Familiar in updating, accessing and version controlling the code using Team Foundation Server (TFS), sub-version and GitHub.  • Involved in leading many daily SCRUM meetings which establishes the context of daily goals of work.  • Have capability of implementing business rules in different layers.  • Strong team builder having excellent analytical skills with capability to handle new technologies.  • Solid skills for Management such as Communication & Time with good team skills for improving the intention to work in fast paced environment.  • Strong experience towards Peer Programming of Agile software development technique. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Web Developer CVS - Louisville, KY January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in all stages of SDLC including designing, coding, testing and implementing the application following Scrum (Agile) methodology.  • Implemented 3-tier architecture (Presentation Layer, Business Logic Layer and Data Access Layer) for development of the project on VS2013.  • Used Entity Framework to create Data Access Layer to manipulate data in database.  • Created and consumed Web Services using WCF.  • Used JQuery for client-side validation and used custom and inbuilt validation techniques to validate web forms.  • Developed the portal using React from scratch.  • Used AJAX server control and toolkit to asynchronously retrieve data from server for better performance.  • Worked with Script Manager and Update Panel in AJAX Server Control and used controls like ModalPopupExtender, Calendar Extender etc. to develop the interactive GUI.  • Developed solutions for diverse programming scenarios in C#, employing Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts such as: encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism, and abstraction. Involved in Requirement analysis, designed and developed Web application using ASP.NET and C#.NET Framework.  • Utilized ADO.NET technology extensively for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation using LINQ.  • Responsible for design and development of Web Forms using VB.Net.  • Designed and developed the web UI using ASP.NET HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and Web Forms. Created User Controls, Custom controls, Data Access Layer, Business Logic Layer Classes using C# Library and Web Controls.  • Involved in upgrading Angular2.  • Developed Custom Directives using Angular2 and Implemented Routing, imperative Routing and Guards with the help of Angular2 Router Module.  • Used model to achieve two-way binding and using naive to display the error messages  • Used Angular2 HTTP Module to make API calls and worked with the observables. Responsive Design Utilizing Bootstrap, REST, AJAX, XML, JSON and OOP web development.  • Used ASP.NET MVC Page Controller pattern to add functionality to individual pages such as to accept input from the page request, invoke the requested actions on the controller.  • Automate continuous integration and deployment processes for ALM.  • Tested the application across different versions of Android and on different Android devices to assure quality and performance  • Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) for Version Control, Team build, Project Management, Data Collection and reporting.  • Actively participated in Scrum meetings of the project implemented in agile project management methodology.  • Experience in Agile methodologies daily stand up, Refinement, Sprint planning, Sprint Review, Retrospective meetings to better understands all the requirements.    Environment: Visual Studio 2015, .NET 4.5, C#, SQL Server 2012, Entity Framework, MS Excel, TFS, ASP.NET, WPF, VB.Net, SSRS, SharePoint, LINQ, NUnit and JQuery, React JS, AngularJS 2, RESTful, Web Services, SignalR, MSMQ, LINQ, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, SQL TFS. Full Stack .Net Developer Boston Scientific Corporation June 2015 to December 2017 Description:  Boston scientific corporation is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical devices, whose projects are used in range interventional medical specialties.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement gathering, Design, Development and Testing of Web Form, project life cycle (SDLC).  • Built Responsive web applications using Bootstrap, HTML5, React JS and CSS3 taking PSD to HTML directly.  • Effectively used Angular JS, Angular 2 for extending HTML while building in Dependency Injection into Single Page Applications [SPA's].  • Developed Views and WebForms using MasterPages, Layouts, PartialViews,HTML helper and JQuery with Razor view engine using MVC3 model.  • Used JavaScript, AngularJS, Angular 2 andAJAXtechnologies for front end user input validations and Restful web service calls.  • Designed and developed various abstract classes, interfaces, classes to construct the business logic using C#.  • Implemented technical use cases by designing and developing the appropriate web pages in Asp.net using C# code behind.  • Involved in developing ASP.NET application using MVC 3 design pattern.  • Developed and Consumed XML Web Services (SOAP).  • Developed User Interface (UI) using WPF for the better look and feel of the desktop-based application.  • Developed UI with MVVM by using JavaScript, Knockout.js, JSON,Node JS,HTML5,jQuery UI.  • Developed small mobile HTML5 contest application for local needs. JavaScript client on jQuery UI Touch asp.net mvc 4 web api entity framework and MS SQL.  • Created WCF Services responsible for communicating and providing real time data from integrated server to Client Application.  • Implemented MVC design pattern for developing the Web Application and used MVC5 application using Razor syntax for view engine, also used C# for the back end.  • Created RESTful services using ASP.NET Web API.  • Designed, developed and implementation of services using SOAP\REST, creating REST services using ASP.NET Web API.  • Used ADO.NET as a data source for accessing databases.  • Implemented Rabbit MQ for windows with Consumers & Procedures for windows services and data integration.  • Stored Information about queries, exchanges and bindings and distributed database using Rabbit MQ.  • Involved in operations of MongoDB on Microsoft Windows and Linux systems.  • Familiar with MongoDB clusters, performance tuning, backup and recovery.  • Worked with modules like MongoDB and mongoose for database persistence using Node.js to interact with MongoDB.  • Experience migrating from Microsoft SQL to MongoDB.  • Extensively used ADO.NET objects such as Data Adapter, Data Reader, Dataset and Data View for reading/updating records in the database.  • Involved in writing complex SQL Statements, Views and Stored Procedures, Indexes to validate data and ensure system integrity and security Written LINQ functions for data access.  • Worked on Message Queue Tasksfor Bypassing and receiving messages, specifying and falling when time-outoccurs and overwriting the message.  • Designed SSRS Reports using TSQL queries based on business requirements.  • Experience in programming tasks-stored procedures, triggers, cursors using SQL Server with TSQL.  • Developed reports by pulling data from various sources and presenting in SQL Server ReportingServices (SSRS), also used Datasets for the SSRS reports.  • Integrated workflow with SharePoint 2016 sites using to gauge the project's status and evaluate the business processes.  • Participated in periodic technical reviews of various modules and developed schema to improve them.  • Involved in migrating data from Microsoft access to a SharePoint2016site and managed permissions to perform tracking and retrieving.  • Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) for continuous integration and version control and used Fiddler to debug web request and responses.  • Familiar in updating, accessing and version controlling the code using Team Foundation Server (TFS), sub-version and GitHub.  • Actively participated in Scrum meetings of the project implemented in Agile project management methodology.    Environment: .Net Framework 4.5/4.0, C#.net,ASP.NET MVC 4.0,ADO.NET, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Angular JS, React JS, SharePoint 2016, Visual Studio 17,XML, OOP, WCF, WPF, Web API, MongoDB,SQL Server 2012/14/16,TSQL,SSRS,TFS, Agile. Full Stack .Net Developer Thales Avionics, CA September 2012 to May 2015 Description:  Thales group is one of the key player in the European market for producing and supplying the electrical-equipment's to multiple industries like Aerospace, Defense and Transportation. Thales group has marked its foot prints in over 56 countries for producing the supplies. It is also having an employee base of 3600 plus only in USA.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in collecting, analyzing and understanding the business requirements from the customers and business analysts.  • Involved in full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for analysis, design, development, documentation and testing of projects and deliverables.  • Implemented UI using ASP.NET, C#, .NET, MVC 4.0, HTML5, XML, JavaScript,React JS, Node JS, CSS3, Angular JS, Angular 2, AJAX, Bootstrap, Express and server controls.  • Experience in addingMulti-factor authenticationto Asp.net and C#for prevention of fraud.  • Designed UI using the HTML, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery 2.1.1, Knockout.Js, BootstrapTwitter- Type ahead  • Used ASP.NET MVC Page Controller pattern to add functionality to individual pages such that to accept input from the page request, invoke the requested actions.  • Worked with npm commands and using package.json for managing dependencies and dev-dependencies of node js applications.  • The tech stack is AngularJS,Angular 2 Express and innovative server side technologies like Node.js, MongoDB (MEAN Stack).  • Experience in design and implementation of services using WCF SOAP\REST, creating REST services using ASP.NET Web API.  • Used WPF of .NET for creating control templates and more appealing visual appearance.  • Developed code to validate the user credentials for authenticating user to access the WCF service.  • Add project users to the AWS account with multifactor authentication enabled and least privilege permissions.  • Involved in creating and managing access roles and providing the security to different levels of legal teams.  • Used ADO.NET extensively for retrieving, querying, storage, and data manipulation for achieving continuous database connectivity.  • Customized Publishing pages with workflows in SharePoint 2010 Designer.  • Worked on cloud computing using Windows Azure and SQL Server Azure.  • Implemented Rabbit MQ for Windows with Direct Exchanges, with Consumers and Producers for data integration with Windows Services.  • Implemented the function to send and receive AMQP messages on Rabbit MQ synchronously and asynchronously, and send JMS message to Apache Active MQ on the edge device.  • Used and Worked on Mongo-DB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, replication and schema design.  • Experience in Installing, Administering, and Optimizing MongoDB instances  • Configure Backup and Recovery Methods for MongoDB.  • Created and maintained databases, tables, stored procedures, indexes, database check constraints, and business rules using T-SQL.  • Written simple to complex stored procedures using TSQL to retrieve the data from SQL Server database.  • Developed extensive Stored Procedures and Triggers in SQL Server, also developed classes for connecting to the SQL Server Database.  • Handled the SQL Server data tables to the WSS custom list. Synchronized SQL data with the respective List items on the SharePoint 2010 server for daily updates.  • Used MSMQ Microsoft Message Queuing for building applications.  • Performed Unit Testing with the testing tool NUnit and involved in Unit test case, code review checklist preparation and validation.  • Developed Agile Software Development methodologies to enable efficient and effective high-quality software development.    Environment: C#, ASP.Net MVC 4.0, VB.NET, WEB API, WCF, WPF, HTML5, CSS3, BootStrap, Angular JS, Node JS, AJAX, Java Script, Ado.netAzure,Rabbit MQ, MongoDB, TSQL,SharePoint 2010, Visual Studio 15,SQL Server, MSMQ, NUnit, Agile, Xamarin. Full Stack.Net Developer North Dakota Information Technology - Bismarck, ND January 2010 to August 2012 Description:  North Dakota Information Technology Department supports the IT needs of the state government and for higher education. ITD's mission is to provide knowledge to assist the customers in achieving their mission through the innovative use of information technology. For this, we develop software to support the client business requirements as well as the internal needs. Also, we assure the quality of software by testing of the product.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirements gathering and compiled them into design document.  • Involved in Discussion Board for Client Interaction for the change requests and follow- ups.  • Developed user interface usingHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS and Bootstrap.  • Used KnockoutJs extensively for responsive UI.  • Utilized ASP.NET validation controls and JavaScript, jQuery to perform client-side validation  • Used Master pages, Update Panel, Rad Grid, Tab Strip, Mask Edit and Extender controls.  • Developed the Web Services and invoked them by using XML, SOAP and WSDL tool for creating proxy classes.  • Worked with SOAPUI to test the Web Services.  • Developed middle layer using C#.Net and ASP.NET.  • Created and used User Controls and Custom Controls.  • Created WCF Service to retrieve and send information from client side without post-back.  • Used ADO.NET for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation interface screens developed using ASP.NET.  • Familiar with MongoDB clusters, performance tuning, backup and recovery.  • Implementation of MongoDB security mechanism with various Authentications.  • Created Joins, Views, functions, stored procedures and triggers as part of the Database programming.  • Involved in performance tuning and query optimization.  • Used forms based Authentication and role based Authorization for security.  • Involved in designing database, creating tables, writing complex queries and writing Stored Procedures using SQL 2008.  • Used SSRS to generate reports and integrated with asp.net web page using report viewer.  • Maintenance/Enhancement of Project and handling/fixing bug on daily basis reported by Help Desk  • Tested the application as per the test cases and business logic using unit test and fixed the bugs.  • Worked with Team Foundation Source Control (TFS) which stores all code, as well as a record of all changes and current check-outs for versioning.  • Followed Agile methodologies (Scrum) and Test-Driven Development.    Environment:.Net Framework 4.0, Visual Studio 2013, ASP.NET 3.5, C#, ASP.Net, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS, BootStrap, WCF, Ado.net, Web Services, MongoDB, SQL SERVER 2008 R2, SSRS, TFS, Agile/SCRUM Full Stack .Net Developer Education Bachelor's Skills .net, Ms visual studio, Visual studio, Analysis services, C# Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  .Net Technologies ASP.NET, .NET CORE,ADO.NET, VB.NET, LINQ, Ajax, Web Services, Silverlight, WPF, Prism.  Web Technologies ASP, VB Script, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, JSON, XML, Bootstrap, jQuery, Angular Js, NodeJS, Kendo UI, Knockout.js, Windows Azure, CSS.  Programming Languages C#.NET, Visual Basic.NET, C, C++, Java, PHP, TSQL, PL/SQL  Database SQL Server SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS)  Database MS-SQL Server 2016/2014, Oracle 11g, MySQL, MongoDB, TSQL  Version Controls GitHub, Visual Source Safe and Team Foundation Server TFS  Methodologies Agile/Scrum, waterfall and TDD  Design Patterns MVC, MVVM  Reporting Tools MS-SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), Crystal Report  Development Tools MS Visual Studio.NET 2017/2015/2013,2012, 2010/2008, Microsoft office suite  Web Servers I Microsoft IIS (5.0/6.0, 7.0, 7.5), Windows Server OS 2008/2012.  Browsers Firefox, Chrome, IE, Opera, Safari