Technology Lead Developer-Angular Technology Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span>-Angular Technology Lead Developer-Angular - Daymon Interactions San Diego, CA • Over 8 years of hands-on experience in designing and developing UI for web / cloud applications using HTLM5, CSS / CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript (ECMA 5/6 specification), Typescript, SCSS.  • Good experience with Responsive Web Designing, JSON, AJAX and Angular 2+ and above.  • Experienced in building responsive web pages (RWP) compatible with multiple device platforms and cross browser compatibility using HTML5, CSS, CSS3, Bootstrap and handling issues with designing layouts and wireframes with web standards.  • Good experience in CSS3 and CSS pre-processors like SASS.  • Worked on Version control systems like Git and Bitbucket.  • Experience in working MVC architecture frameworks like Angular 2, 4, 5 and 6 and developed Single Page Applications (SPA) using AngularJS and Angular 2+.  • Hands-on development experience in Typescript and Angular concepts like One-way data binding, Two-way data binding using property binding, event binding.  • Created and developed custom Angular Components, Directives, Services, Pipes  • Experience in date conversions with angular pipes using moment.js  • Good understanding and worked on lifecycle hooks like OnInit and Component interaction.  • Worked on databases like MongoDB and Postgres SQL  • Experience on performance optimization for efficient fully functional working app.  • Experience in Angular network performance concepts like Lazy-Loading of resources, AoT compilation, compression and caching.  • Good knowledge and understanding of cross-platform JavaScript run-time environments like Node.js  • Used API specifications and debugged them using Postman API integrating tool and Splunk to test the real time data(logs) while working with the API's.  • Worked on metadata tags optimization to reduce the load time on the overall website/app.  • Implemented Angular prebuilt component concepts using Angular Material.  • Experience in unit testing and E2E testing frameworks like Karma, Jasmine.  • Worked closely with the Project Managers, Architects, Product Owners and to completely understand and define specifications to help ensure project acceptance.  • Expertise in concepts like W3C Standard, Web Accessibility and performance optimization.  • Self-starter and team player with excellent communication and interpersonal skills Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technology Lead Developer-Angular Daymon Interactions - San Diego, CA February 2019 to Present Description: CDS(Club Demonstration Services) focuses in providing customized in-warehouse demonstrations for Costco Wholesale Clubs. CDS's aim to provide high quality product demonstrations and marketing services to Costco Wholesale Vendors, with the intent of improving sales through promoting product trial in a friendly and professional style. The main application is sales and scheduling website which integrates Vendor, Buyer, Warehouse portals.  Responsibilities:  • Developed and debugged front-end Angular HTML and typescript component files using Angular 5/6.  • Used moment.js with angular pipes to convert the dates based on country locale and region id.  • Created Email template in Spark post API integration tool and used that template with ID in email pop-up application functionality.  • Used Splunk to test the real time data and logs if this email were sent in the above working functionality.  • Used Postman Http client for API and Web Services testing.  • Used MongoDB and Postgres SQL for daily database operations using CRUD operations.  • Navigated through different pages using Router Links and passed parameters to them  • Created Custom Components and Directives, filters, Services.  • Optimized the code by implementing concepts like Lazy Load of resources, AoT compilation, compression, caching, Change Detection.  Environment: HTML5, SCSS, TS, Angular 5/6, Postgres, MongoDB, Amazon Work Space, Spark post API, Postman. Senior UI / Web Developer Equate Health - Pleasanton, CA January 2017 to January 2019 Duration: Jan 2017-Jan 2019  Description: Equate Health offers IT products for hospitals, doctors and patients. For doctors to take advantage of CCM (Chronic Chare Management) billing program offered by Medi Care, Equate Health has built a CCM platform that allow doctors and their practice admin team to capture patient treatment info for chronic conditions and bill Medi Care. The main app is hosted in Amazon ECC and can be accessed as a mobile and web application. Patients can access from smart phones. Doctors can access from smart phones, tablets and as a web app.  Responsibilities:  • Developed the front-end HTML5 web pages for the Health maintenance and Billing modules.  • Recreated the entire project from AngularJS 1.5 to Angular 2 and 4.  • Built client validation logic using Angular 4/5 for CCM modules like User/Patient admin, Practice admin, Care Plan, Appointment, Health maintenance, Medication and Billing.  • Developed code using Angular 4/5 to incorporate complex CCM billing rules and automatic CPT code assignment for each of the CCM activities logged by the doctor.  • Build gulp scripts to integrate code from multiple git repos.  • Used JAX-RS Java API for making REST web service calls  • Implemented AES Encryption/Decryption methods for HIPAA compliance  • Enhanced the web pages to be cross browser compliant and user friendly for patients  • Worked on server-side rendering with change detection.  • Extensively worked on metadata tags optimization to reduce the load time.  • Worked on angular animations to implement swipe, tap and pinch functionalities.  • Generated APK build for Androids using Cordova cli commands  • Performed unit testing of the CCM platform on the cloud, smart phones and all browsers  Environment: HTML5, Angular 2.0 and above, MySQL, JAX-RS API, Amazon ECC, gulp. Market Place Business operations - Web Amazon.com March 2015 to July 2015 Description: Amazon offers advisory services to their sellers to stay competitive with other companies like Best Buy, Walmart, Target, AliExpress etc. One such service is to compare the pricing of a particular product against competitors and share the competitive price analysis to the sellers along with pricing recommendations, using this portal.  Responsibilities:  • Developed webpages for product comparison using HTML5, CSS3 and client-side validations using JavaScript and AngularJs  • Built the web pages as Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJs components. For building Single Page flow, used ngRoute component and custom directives.  • Created CSS, CSS3 Media queries to make the portal compatible with multiple devices namely tablets (both Landscape and Portrait mode), Desktops and Smart Phones. For CSS and CSS3, used LESS and SASS pre-processors.  • Designed and developed product filtering function using AngularJs services and factories  • Used two-way data binding techniques between Models and Views with AngularJs HTTPRequest (GET and POST requests) for transferring data and passing the headers  • Used MS Cognitive Face Detection service to compare products based on the product images  • Developed customized pricing comparison charts using D3.js and AngularJs FlexiGrid API  • Used SubLime and Brackets to manage the project code and GitHub for source code control  • Extensively used npm (Node Package Manager) and ypm (Yarn Package Manager) in Node and Yarn to communicate with server  Environment: HTML / HTML5, CSS / CSS3 (SASS, LESS), Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJs (D3.js, FLEXGRID), NodeJS, MS Cognitive Service (Face Detection) and Protractor Program Developer Synchrony Financial February 2014 to February 2015 Project: Financial Risk and Credit Card Fraud Detection Web Application  Project Role: Program Developer  Duration: Feb 2014 - Feb 2015  Description: GE Capital's Retail Financial Services is a division of GE Global Services that offers financial services with a range of credit card products and services. Risk and fraud detection is a critical function provided by this web application that GE Capital users uses for tracking fraudulent use of the credit cards and alert / block the credit card usage.  Responsibilities:  • Designed the web page layout using CSS, CSS3 and Adobe Photoshop for creating wireframes  • Created HTML and HTML5 web pages based on Adobe Photoshop mockups (PSD file)  • Built web pages using JavaScript frameworks namely JQuery and AngularJs  • Developed JSON web services to fetch data and rendering to the front-end web page  • Written code using NodeJs to connect with Server based on a dynamically generated URL  • Created client-side validation scripts using JQuery components to implement slide show, hide and show functions, and page turning animations within a web page.  • Used JIRA tool to update bug resolutions reported by QA team    ENVIRONMENT: HTML / HTML5, CSS / CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJs, AJAX, NodeJs, Adobe PhotShop, GIT Analyst-CE Google February 2012 to May 2013 Description: GTL is the set of functions available within Google Maps that will allow to fetch information about a particular business being searched by the user (eg: Address and Business hours of an organization) and show them on the left panel in a predefined format.  Responsibilities:  • Built table less HTML (using div and span tags) to design the web page sections  • Worked with back-end developers to map the data fields with the corresponding html page fields in order to render the business information in the right section of the web pages  • Used Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator to define the site layout and create images  • Developed client validation rules using JQuery and JavaScript  • Worked closely with business analysts in redesigning the web pages to incorporate user feedback and learnt best practices for building user friendly web pages    ENVIRONMENT: HTML / HTML5, CSS / CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Adobe PhotShop Trainee / Programmer Global Logic Inc August 2010 to January 2012 Responsibilities:  • Undergone extension web programming training in HTML, CSS, CSS3  • Learnt client-side validation code development using JQuery, JavaScript  • Took training on Adobe products (Photo Shop, Illustrator and Light Room) to create wireframes and images  • Assisted senior web developers in building web pages and client validation scripts as per the requirements provided by them.    ENVIRONMENT: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Adobe LightRoom, Illustrator, Photo Shop Skills VISUAL STUDIO, API, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, JSON, ANGULARJS, HTML5, SASS, AJAX, CSS, ECLIPSE, jQuery, DATABASE, MYSQL, POSTGRES, SQL, MONGODB, BUGZILLA, AFTER EFFECTS, PHOTOSHOP, Angular Additional Information Technical Skills  Web Technologies HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, LESS, SASS, JavaScript, JQUERY, JSON, AJAX, NodeJS , AngularJS, Angular 2+  Testing Tools Protractor, Karma, Grunt, Firebug, Bugzilla, Chrome Developer Tools, Postman(API)  Database MySQL, SQL Developer, MongoDB and Postgres SQL  IDE/ VersionControl Eclipse, IntelliJ, Visual Studio, Sublime Text, Brackets, GitHub, Atom  Other Tools Adobe Photoshop/Elements/Lightroom/Premiere/After Effects