Freelance Software Developer Freelance Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software / Web Developer Naples, FL Talented Web/Application Full Stack Developer with 11+ years of experience developing complex and interactive web based applications and e-commerce websites. Ability to work effectively as a part of a team or individually. Learning fast, well organized, creative, responsible, and able to work under pressure. Communicate with all project personnel effectively in both English and Spanish. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance Software Developer SELF-EMPLOYED - Naples, FL July 2018 to Present - Redesigned and implemented the corporate web site for STOCK Development  Associates (stockdevelopment.com).  - Redesigned and implemented a community site (thelakeclublwr.com).  - Implemented custom features for "FABRIK" (CRM that handle internal construction and sales processes within the STOCK Development company).    Skills/Technologies Used:  Visual Studio 2017-2019, .NET Framework 4.6 (LINQ), .NET Core, MVC, SQL Server 2017, HTML5, CSS3, C#, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, SQL, Web services, Web API, TFS, Kentico Cloud. Web Developer Stock Development Associates - Naples, FL September 2016 to June 2018 - Redesigned and implemented the corporate web site for the company (stockdevelopment.com).  - Developed and implemented communities sites (Ex: quailwest.com, thelakeclub.azurewebsites.net).  - Designed, developed, and implemented a powerful CRM (FABRIK) to handle internal construction and sales processes.    Skills/Technologies Used  Visual Studio 2015-2017, .NET Framework 4.5 (LINQ), MVC, SQL Server 2014, HTML5, CSS3, C#, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, SQL, Web services, Web API, TFS, Kentico CMS. Senior Technology Specialist Benefit Next, Inc. - Bonita Springs, FL February 2015 to March 2016 - Designed, developed, and implemented a powerful variety of web tools that help health insurance agents to assist their clients understand, comply with, and do the calculations necessary to succeed in navigating PPACA.   - Developed an Administration module where Agencies can manage their information and company's structure.   - Troubleshot and debugged coding to detect errors in programs and services in order to correct them in addition to enhancing process to maintain quality code for better app behavior and response time.    Skills Used  Visual Studio 2013, .NET Framework 4.5 (LINQ), Web Forms, SQL Server 2012, HTML5, CSS3, C#, Bootstrap, AJAX, XML, XHTML, XAML, JSON, JavaScript, AngularJS, SQL, Web services, API, GitHub, TeamCity. Web Developer / SQL Developer Interlink Consulting - Bonita Springs, FL September 2013 to September 2015 Responsibilities  • Ensured proper development of all inquiries to meet requirements and expected results in addition to leading staff meetings for task status reports/new tasks implementation.  • Designed, developed, and implemented custom web applications for local companies such as Pool & Spa (www.serenitypoolandspa.com) and Home Builder (www.kurtzhomes.com).  • Designed and implemented a corporate web site for Stock Development Company, one of the most dynamic and innovative development and construction companies in Southwest Florida (www.stockdevelopment.com).  o Developed a Warranty Portal module to handle requests from homeowner to the Company’s Customer Service Department.  o Designed and implemented a Windows Store App to provide support to the front-end sales process in the Company’s Sales Department.     Skills Used  Visual Studio 2013, .NET Framework 4.5 (LINQ), ASP.NET MVC 5, Entity Framework, Razor, SQL Server 2012, HTML 5, CSS 3, C#, AJAX, XML, XHTML, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, JQuery UI, SQL, T-SQL, Web services, Windows 8, Office 2013, TFS. Software Developer / SQL Developer / Network Administration Geocuba, Isla - Isla de la Juventud, Cuba October 2008 to December 2012 • Designed and implemented new web applications by working with ASP.NET MVC, SQL Server 2008.  • Designed, developed, and implemented custom desktop applications to manage information in Marketing Department.  • Developed websites using Joomla CMS, MySQL database, and PHP language.  • Maintained an existing web application, incorporated changes by amending programming, and implemented new functionalities.  • Troubleshoot and developed technical solutions related to custom software. Education ESL Program Hodges University - Naples, FL 2013 to 2013 Bachelor's in Computer Science University of Informatics Science - Havana September 2003 to June 2008 Skills Others: Web Api, PHP, HTML, MySQL, Microsoft Office: Excel, Word, Power Point, Access, SharePoint, Artificial Intelligence: Classification, Genetic Programming. (5 years), C# (7 years), Asp.Net (7 years), Web Services (4 years), Javascript (6 years), JQuery (4 years), AngularJs (2 years), CSS3 (3 years), Sql Server (7 years), TFS (3 years), Angular, Wordpress, NET, Bootstrap, HTML5