Sr Drupal Lead Sr Drupal Lead Sr Drupal Lead - Fluke Corporation Everett, WA • Extensive experience on Web Technologies using PHP 5, and PHP 7 HTML 5, JavaScript, CSS 3 and XML on Windows and Linux based operating systems.  • Skilled in WAMP, LAMP, XAMPP, Macport & Acquia Cloud platforms.  • Expertise in coding optimized SQL queries, Functions, Packages, Triggers on databases like MySQL, MS SQL Server and Oracle.  • Well versed with complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process.  • Strong on Object Oriented Programming (OOP), have used OOP to apply various design patterns depending on the requirement.  • Should have desirable scripting knowledge, VB/Powershell, macros  • Solid experience with Model View Controller (MVC) architecture based Web Application Development.  • Expert in Drupal/WordPress themes customization and module integrations.  • Skilled in WAMP, LAMP and XAMPP platforms.  • Worked as an Architect for few months due to project Requirement. Work Experience Sr Drupal Lead Fluke Corporation - Everett, WA, US June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked as an Architect for few months due to project requirement.  • Develop Mobile Responsive project on Drupal 8 the latest designed standards and techniques and tools involved in the project such as (Bootstrap, Adobe DTX, Duda Mobile, Bmobilezed, BOX) to standardize the architecture of the layout with respective the three major devices Desktop, Tablet and the mobile for landscape and Portrait design  • Strong knowledge of Drupal programming and theming (the ability to write high-quality code using Drupal best practice)  • Great Scripting command over the following languages: PowerShell, and Python  • Passionate, dependable and committed to the greater good of the team and company  • Highly proficient in HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, jQuery, responsive techniques and frameworks  • Architect and Develop cutting edge cloud platform solution using the latest tools and platforms like AWS, Azure, Pantheon, Acquia  • Designing many different modules like data parsing which was develop by using C#  • Experience with Azure, AWS and other Cloud based environment Iaas, PaaS, SaaS, Aws cloud, Aws Lambda.  • Responsive Web Design (RWD) & Mobile Web Development using the latest HTML 5, CSS3, Compass, Sass, LESS & jQuery, Ruby & Gem.  • Possess the detailed knowledge of Drupal version 7 and Drupal 8  • Possess strong knowledge on web based technologies such as HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript and jQuery, Bootstrap and theming's  • Works with multiple projects and migrated the Application from the internal server to cloud hosting application Pantheon and work directly with stakeholders and the Pantheon support team for issue related to the project  • Primary duties included project scoping & scheduling agile process and task management for design, development, content, site operations and QA; administration of site configuration / building; and facilitation of custom module, feature module and custom theming extension, and CRM integrations on Drupal 8  • Successfully migrated the site from Tektronix to pantheon using Drupal 8.  • Experience developing multi-user cloud hosted software with one or more public cloud platforms such as Azure or AWS  • Additionally, lead technical trainings; prepared documentation (internal and client); directed the UAT, Q&A, pre-deploy, and post-deploy processes  • Designed and developed data web services, data validation framework, and business qualification logic for use of various applications using AJAX/WCF/JSON, Windows Workflow Foundation (WWF), Visual Studio 2013 (C#, .NET 3.5, ASP.NET), SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), and SQL Server 2012.  • Resolved numbers of challenges in the project which are highly critical and sensible initialized many functionalities which are highly crucial. Redesign the project scenarios as per the standards of drupal.org.  • Initially the project was built in Microsoft dot net and with some of the windows CMS tools in the year 1990's and slowly its being updated into latest versions of Visual studios and windows CMS and Our Program Director diverted the flow of CMS into Drupal 6 it was the most challenging part for us to completely migrate the application into Drupal 6 it's been successfully migrated and works as per the standards.  • In the next phase we need to upgrade the application into Drupal 7. We have successfully migrated the application into Drupal 7 there were number of challenges we face during the time of migration because there are so many third-party application and the service we are using which needs to update as per their standard and up and running few of them are our Marketo form, (SFDC tool), CookieBot, Dotcom Monitor, Google Analytic, Google Tag Manager, Translations.com, Box Applications.  • Creating Responsive mobile designs using HTML5 & CSS3 media queries to create resizable layouts that are optimized for iPhone, iPad, Android, Tablets and Desktop.  • Implemented a Lean UX Design & Development strategy.  • Successfully completed the firewall issue using Pantheon Enterprise Gateway for My Account functionality.  • Box is a third-party application which is a cloud service to hold all the images and thumbnails product images logos and so on. It was a great challenge to resolve the application during the time of migration the code was not properly migrated and thus throwing error while trying to download product images and I was directly dealing with the BOX support team to set it up finally was succeeded to resolve the issue.  • The next phase is to migrate the application into Drupal 8 is which is under process. We are using different tools for different project in order rectify and do not make any mess into the code base so for Pantheon project we are using Bitbucket tool for all the development and merging. For our internal server application which Tektronix we have our own Data Centre in Beaverton we use JIRA for development and Bug fixing and for various tasks  • We have DMR (Data migration Request) portal to move the changes once the development Environment is ready for the test environment and then we use the same tool to move into production.  • For the Mobile Project we use JIRA for the dev, test and live. Our goal in this project to use cloud service Pantheon instead of internal server which is creating an issue for different location such as China and Europe in EU you need a GDPR standard to use the application it's basically a law where you must follow their terms and policies. And in China you need to have a physical site to use the application in china. Sr. Drupal Developer Mobiquity Inc September 2016 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Develop a Project Management system, which can handle the full SDLC life cycle of software projects. The project includes features such as Requirement Gathering, Analysis, Task Assignments and CVS/Accurev version control integration, Test Management, Release Management and Deployment etc.  • Experience with reporting tools like Crystal Reports, Business Objects, Access  • Knowledge of advanced level programming in C/C++ including thread synchronization multithreading, multi-processing, concurrency and TCP/IP Socket Programming  • Experience in AWS/ Azure cloud technology and managed services.  • Broad understanding of service architectures in Drupal 7 and Drupal 8.  • Participate in the training and implementation of new CRM software solutions (including Salesforce), acting as contact between software support team and Client.  • Familiarity with front end open source frameworks such as MQ/JMS and jQuery.  • Specified, prototyped, developed and tested an object-oriented, multiplatform C++ framework containing support to: data structures, common algorithms sockets, threading.  • Developed fully functional, cross browser compatible websites on Drupal8 platform utilizing agile and scrum methodologies and Google Analytics Google Tag manager.  • Database SQL experience. Knowing how to use a PHP based ORM (Doctrine, Eloquent, Active Record).  • Design and implement ecommerce solutions that integrate industry-standard (OMS, CRM, WMS, and 3PLs)  • Migrated an Ecommerce application from Java ATG to Zend Framework. The project also utilized technologies like Yahoo R3 and Rest Web services  • Strong hands-on experience in in Oracle SQL and PL/SQL development in 11g and 12c Environment using SQL Developer, TOAD, and other tools.  • Developing custom modules, web forms, design and layout in Drupal 8 of new pages, maintenance of existing data, management of the backend database, and integrations to other applications.  • Analyse the business requirements. Design and develop the system. Unit testing and implementation of changes if required. Analyse and resolve issues in the developed application. Communicate with different departments for requirement understanding, issues fixing and suggest solutions.  • Working with Oracle on a day to day and week by week basis both in terms of making recommendations to their OMS and OCP platforms as well as their MCOM Reporting Suite  • Performance minded and knowledgeable in Magento profiling  Expert knowledge of SQL, and the Magento ORM  • Involved in re-skinning of website developed in Drupal 7 and developed custom modules to support the system.  • Worked on an open-source CMS to build website using Drupal 8.  • Worked with cross browser compatibility issues.  • Designing in HTML 5, DHTML, CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery for making website more attractive.  • Designed, developed and documented all UI components for the application in accordance to business and customer requirements using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax.  • Designed and maintained Web forms and Banners PHP Coded, implemented upgrades, patches, code releases, and database changes.  • Oracle (PL/SQL), partitioning, compression, HA/DR, materialized views, indexing strategies, performance tuning, SQL, data analysis and data modelling  • Data exchange with third party using PHP5/XML.  • Familiarity with Toad and/or SQL Developer tools  • Worked directly with clients on various projects, and trained client developers in best practices for customizing SugarCRM 6 and 7.  • Coding of custom WordPress theme and template files using HTML5, CSS3, PHP, and Bootstrap 3 framework.  • Develop themes and plugins using WordPress.  • Used PHP 5, HTML 5 and JavaScript webpage coding integrated with MySQL using Apache HTTP.  • Used all aspects of MySQL/PHP Programming (object oriented PHP), Zend Framework in LAMP environment.  • Used LAMP for hosting the WordPress application.  • Used on Linux platform (LAMP), Magento CMS, MySQL, REST web services, Git repository for this project.  • Experience in WordPress, Drupal 7 & 8 Magento, Laravel, Zend Framework, Symphony and so on.  • Proficient in Object-oriented programming (OOPs) concepts. Ability to quickly learn and apply any new technologies. PHP / Drupal Developer Incyte Corporation - Wilmington, DE, US February 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Part of a dynamic team which developed diverse Web based solutions using LAMP stack in Drupal 7. These included CRM and Ecommerce applications. Which also involved a steep learning curve for most of the projects.  • Been working within Agile development teams (Scrum, XP, Kanban, etc.) and performed more than one role  • Knowledge of a variety reporting tools (MS SQL Reporting services, IBM Cognos, Microsoft BI/SharePoint, Crystal Reports)  • Experience with TOAD, or another equivalent database management tool  • Experience and hands-on ability developing web solutions in Drupal 7/8 implementations  • Proven success in architecting enterprise Drupal solutions including site migration from older versions of Drupal 7 or legacy systems to Drupal 8  • Developed fully functional, cross browser compatible websites on DRUPAL platform utilizing Agile and Scrum methodologies.  • Worked on various Drupal7 tools including Drush, Me cache, Views and CCK and Developed Custom modules and Drupal templates.  • Experience with relational database storage and SQL as well as JPA or other ORM technology  • software engineering/development to include recent experience in agile software engineering environments  • Experience with systems of modern commerce companies ( web e-commerce platforms, ERP, OMS, WMS)  • Skills in developing custom modules and migrating them from 7 to 8  • Through understanding of the Software Development Lifecycle (e.g. Requirements, Design, Development, Testing) and exposure to Agile or iterative SDLCs  • Most recently worked on development of automotive inventory management application (IMS) which is built in Zend framework, used LAMP setup. It is using for multiple clients.  • Installed and configured Drupal 7.0 in the UNIX environment and performed various Content Management System modifications for the Websites.  • Worked on Drupal theming, User experience design by Photoshop.  • Implemented automated local user provisioning instances created in AWS cloud.  • Worked on Drupal 7 module development & systems administration  • Worked on automotive content management system (CMS) which is built in PHP Sweet framework, used LAMP setup. This framework is built by client. This content management system successfully handles more than 150 sites and used for dealers.  • Customized Sugar CRM product to suit the needs of different organizations and integrated jasper reports to generate information relevant to different stakeholders.  • Developed the application using PHP5, HTML5, JavaScript, MySQL 5.1 and Apache server.  • Implemented a CVS to Subversion repository migration and helped to automate code management between the development, test, and production environments.  • Designed and developed database with normalization techniques using MySQL.  • Worked on PHP5 and MYSQL, HTML5, Ajax, JavaScript, CSS3 and WordPress on Windows and Linux operating systems.  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript and AngularJS.  • Implemented AJAX and JQuery on Front-End to make the web page more dynamic.  • Ensure graphics used in website do not cause inordinate delay in speed of page loading.  • Fixed cross browsing compatible issues from the initial stage of development for different browsers.  • Worked on various Drupal7 tools including Drush, Me cache, Views and CCK and Developed Custom modules and Drupal 8 templates.  • Worked with testers in fixing the bugs and participated in code review sessions to maintain the standards  • RPG, SQL, XML, IBM Rational Developer v9.5, JavaScript File API, jQuery, ExcelJS, TD/OMS change management, and SEU on iSeries and Windows servers.  • Maintained 24/7 high volume availability demands using open source tools such as Linux, Apache, PHP and MySQL. Drupal Developer Iblesoft Pvt Ltd June 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked as a part of the code revamp team to replace the legacy procedural code with object oriented code in using Drupal 7.  • Responsible for the complete Photoshop mock-ups and UI site redesign as well as the Front-end Development of HTML5/ CSS3 code for the Confidential website  • Developed Drupal 7 a tracking system to get the web page statistics from user's perspective in PHP and JavaScript.  • Implemented a caching feature to cache static web pages in memory using Drush.  • Integrated and configured the lucene search engine for PHP application.  • Learned how to customize a new, mostly undocumented version of Sugar (Sugar 7) based on learning the source code and the new framework it used  • Automated the recurring job of firing advertisement mailers to job seekers and outsourced it to the Operations team.  • Hands-on experience of physical/logical data modeling using TOAD data modeler or similar industry modeling tools  • Responsible for optimizing MySQL to support huge traffic as we have an enormous user base.  • Involved in optimizations in nginx which is used pantheon Project Drupal 7 as a reverse proxy to speed up the response time  • Automated and transferred the routine tasks to operations team (Coded in Python).  • Introduced a new GUI unit testing tool SIKULI which helped decrease the UI bugs in the Arabic version of the website.  • Server monitoring and troubleshooting the errors on live servers as and when required.  • Also, responsible for mentoring new team members in the team. Web Developer Rilako Technologies July 2012 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Designed various static websites for clients using HTML5, CSS3 JavaScript and jQuery.  • Created various website mock-ups using Photoshop.  • Be a participating member of an Agile/Scrum development team Commitment to contributing to project documentation throughout the SDLC  • Good working knowledge in report development in Business Objects Enterprise including Web Intelligence & Crystal Report  • Experience with Oracle, Database design, PL, SQL coding, stored procedures, packages, indexes, triggers, creating tables, etc., including the use of a tool to write and test SQL code and manipulate data (such as Toad)  • Creating MySQL database queries for websites on Drupal 7 Application.  • Created various forms, image galleries and interface with PHP 5.  • Installed CMS Applications like WordPress and customized them.  • Installed and configured modules and widgets including social media.  • Designed Newsletters with HTML5, CSS 3.  • Experience with PHP MVC Frameworks (Laravel, CodeIgniter)  • Installed Maintained PHP 5 Newsletter system.  • Social Media Integration like Facebook, Twitter.  • Graphic Design in brochures, web banners and web buttons.    Environment: PHP 5, Drupal 7, CSS3, XML HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript, jQuery Education Masters in Information System Engineering and Management Harrisburg University Skills .NET, APPLICATION SERVER, C#, C++, JAVASCRIPT Additional Information Technical Skills:    Client-Side Scripting: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, XML  Server-Side Scripting: PHP 7, AJAX, Java, C, Python 3  Web Servers: LAMP, WAMP, XAMPP, Macport, Acquia  Cloud Platform: AWS, Azure, Pantheon  Databases: MySQL, SQL, Oracle DB S3 Bucket, NoSQL  Networking: TCP/IP, LAN, FTP, DNS, DHCP, IIS  Programming Lang: C, C++, C#, PHP7, Python3.5, Java, Visual Basic, .NET, SOAP, REST, HTML5, DHTML  Frameworks/ CMS: Drupal 7, ZEND (PHP 7), WordPress  Application Server: Apache Web Server, WAMP, LAMP NGNIX  WEB Application: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery AJAX  CMS: Drupal 7 & Drupal 8, WordPress  Operating Systems: Windows, Mac, Linux (Red Hat, Ubuntu)  IDE: Adobe, Dreamweaver, Eclipse & Terminal  PhpStorm, Sublime text, PowerShell, Bash,  Search: Solr v4.0