Programmer II Programmer II Programmer II Otto, NC As an eager software developer I'm looking for exciting new opportunities that not only put my abilities to the test but also push the boundaries of software development. I'm very familiar with working in fast-paced work environments producing enterprise level software. I have three years of development experience using web technologies within the Microsoft stack. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Programmer II Drake Software - Franklin, NC February 2016 to Present I create and design enterprise level tax software using web technologies within the Microsoft stack developing new features, updating older systems, and designing applications/tools used internally within the company and other customer facing products. IT Intern BLACKBURN, CHILDERS & STEAGALL, PLC - Johnson City, TN January 2015 to February 2016 Responsibilities  My responsibilities primarily consist of maintaining office equipment, installing software for other employees when needed, and solving basic computer issues.    Skills Used  I use my understanding of computer hardware to fix computers and printers as well as my knowledge of basic computer\software skills. Responsive Web Developer Drake Software - Franklin, NC May 2014 to January 2015 Responsibilities  It was my responsibility to help develop, implement, and test responsive websites on a daily basis.    Accomplishments  Over the course of the summer my two biggest projects were completed and are still online today. If you would like to view them the links are below:    drakehealth.com  drakesoftware.com/site/training/searchseminar_m.aspx    Skills Used  I gained a lot of experience working in HTML 5, CSS, and JavaScript. I also demonstrated the use of MVC working with web applications. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Milligan College - Milligan College, TN August 2013 to May 2016 Certificate in General Studies Southwestern Community College - Sylva, NC August 2012 to May 2013 Skills HTML 5 (4 years), CSS (4 years), C# (3 years), Java Script (3 years), Visual Studio (4 years), Microsoft Office, SQL (3 years)