Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Austin, TX Travis developed his understanding of web and computer science concepts gradually, taking time to cultivate an understanding of the fundamentals. He enjoys writing clean and readable code in a variety of languages (e.g., Ruby, JavaScript, and PHP) using object-oriented design patterns.    Please take a look at his Stack Overflow Career Profile (http://careers.stackoverflow.com/travishohl) for a selection of his contributions to Stack Overflow. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer RateGenius Loan Services - Austin, TX July 2017 to Present • Develop and maintain Enterprise SaaS platform: write and review code and provide code analysis.    • Build front-end apps with Vue, Vuex, and Vuetify (a Material component framework for Vue).    • Optimize and refactor server-side application code (PHP).    • Design and integrate RESTful (and occasionally SOAPy) APIs.    • Participate in daily Scrum sessions, providing updates and project estimations. Freelance Web Developer Self Employed - Austin, TX March 2013 to March 2018 • Develop a Ruby on Rails API and React/Redux web application which gathers data from a virtual flight simulator economy (via a public web API) and provides helpful insights to virtual pilots (e.g., what are the most profitable flights I can take with my favorite aircraft which will only take me an hour or less to complete?).    • Develop custom Wordpress themes and implement a range of features for them, including custom post types and taxonomies, custom settings menus, and a clean code base that can be easily understood and expanded by other developers.    • Develop a Ruby on Rails application that reads (or “scrapes”) HTML from a government website and outputs it in a format that is more accessible to users that rely on screen readers.    • Explore low-level programming topics in C, including: pointers; the binary search algorithm; and memory management with malloc() and free().    • Write a simple iOS application in Objective C to explore topics related to Apple's Cocoa (iOS) framework, including Cocoa classes and subclassing, Cocoa events, and animation. Technical Director The Search Engine Guys, a division of Cloud[8]Sixteen, Inc. - Austin, TX November 2016 to July 2017 • Responsible for leading a team of developers who host, maintain, and grow a portfolio of 200+ WordPress websites. Web Developer The Search Engine Guys, a division of Cloud[8]Sixteen, Inc. - Austin, TX January 2015 to November 2016 • Convert flat design files (i.e., PSD and Sketch files) into working WordPress websites, typically using the Bootstrap front-end framework, Javascript, and special purpose libraries and APIs (e.g., the Google Maps JavaScript API).    • Develop an API using PHP and the Laravel framework to enable the submission, validation, and persistence of web form data sent from static web pages.    • Create a QA (Quality Assurance) tool using Ruby that can perform tedious quality assurance tests on live websites more quickly and accurately than manual testing (e.g., checks for the existence and uniqueness of the values of certain HTML elements). Hack Team Member Open Austin - Austin, TX March 2013 to December 2014 Open Austin is a volunteer organization that promotes open government, open data, and civic application development in Austin, TX.    Skills Used  CSS, HTML, Rails, REST, Ruby, Sinatra Paralegal Law Office of Hubert Bell, Jr. - Austin, TX August 2011 to December 2014 • Provide discovery support to counsel for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation during an investigation of the failure of a national bank.    • Choose technological procedures, tools, and equipment -- including computers -- for the firm.    • Research and summarize various legal topics, including federal trademark registration, delegation of physicians’ prescriptive authority, and the business judgment rule.    • Communicate thoughts, ideas, information, and messages in writing; create documents such as letters, pleadings, directions, manuals, reports, graphs, and flow charts. Paralegal Webking McClendon, P.C. - Austin, TX October 2010 to August 2011 • Draft and file motions, briefs, and other pleadings with the State Office of Administrative Hearings (SOAH).    • Assist in the preparation of exhibits and interview expert witnesses. Market Research Intern Marcus and Millichap - Austin, TX September 2009 to December 2009 • Prepare and present market share and sales volume figures.    • Retrieve and analyze county real property records. Real Estate Intern Avignon Realty - Austin, TX September 2008 to December 2008 • Give presentations covering real estate-related topics such as sales, financing, insurance, and the Troubled Asset Relief Program.    • Gather and interpret real estate market data and discuss findings with broker. Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Marketing Texas State University - San Marcos, TX 2006 to 2009 Skills Ruby (4 years), C (Less than 1 year), Javascript (3 years), PHP (4 years), Ruby on Rails (3 years), MYSQL, Git, CSS Links http://www.travishohl.com https://github.com/travishohl https://twitter.com/thohl https://bitbucket.org/cthohl/ http://stackoverflow.com/users/3367343/thohl http://careers.stackoverflow.com/travishohl https://gitlab.com/cthohl