Unity Developer, Project Lead Unity <span class="hl">Developer</span>, Project Lead Unity Developer, Project Lead - Brainotion Los Angeles, CA • Project Team lead and Information Technology alum with knowledge in object-oriented programming, software development lifecycle methodologies and software testing/debugging experience.  • Career highlights include developing and presenting live demos for groups of over 50 service engineers and leading a 21-member team project of desktop migrations for 250 bank locations to successful completion.  • Academic background focuses on software application development in Java and C#, data structures and software design. Work Experience Unity Developer, Project Lead Brainotion - Tustin, CA February 2019 to Present • Design, develop, code, and implement software prototypes in C#, using Unity3D to meet customer requirements.  • Provide recommendations for planning and implementation for teammates, working in a leadership role.  • Work with new and existing tools necessary to develop specific features and systems, including sockets/networking, AR/VR, UI, database, and analytics.  • Deploy to Windows, Android, and Linux.  • Unit testing and debugging. Web Developer Intern InterNext Web Design - Anaheim, CA August 2018 to January 2019 • Helped build websites and web apps for clients using HTML, CSS, and JS.  • Tested and debugged code, as well as wrote documentation for agency records.  • Assisted with the creation of agency code repo and helped established version control for the team. Junior Unity Developer/Intern Tatum Games LLC - Santa Clarita, CA February 2018 to May 2018 • Wrote and debugged code in C#, generated APKs and reported status in weekly SCRUM meetings.  • Worked with a team of developers on Heroes Vs Villains, a digital card game and contributed to features of the game, including UI and sound management and data tracking using Google Cloud.  • Used GitHub to maintain version control, working within a preexisting code repo. Supervisor/Account Manager/Project Support Apex Computer Systems, Inc - Cerritos, CA March 2008 to November 2015 • Led team of 21 employees in a call center environment by providing training and support which resulted in increased customer satisfaction and efficient service.  • Managed employee productivity along with project status and progress to maintain client retention and satisfaction.  • Interviewed, hired, and trained new candidates resulting in team stability and increased productivity.  • Worked with developers to beta test software and provide valuable feedback which led to numerous successful software implementations allowing company to streamline integration while meeting customized needs.  • Wrote and upkept procedural documentation, resulting in better organization and team member stability. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology-Software Application Programming in Information Technology-Software Application Programming Colorado Technical University - Colorado Springs, CO February 2018 Bachelor of Arts in Sociology in Sociology University of California - Los Angeles, CA June 2007 Skills MICROSOFT VISUAL STUDIO (5 years), C# (4 years), MICROSOFT DYNAMICS NAV, SDLC, JAVA, MYSQL, DETAIL-ORIENTED, BI-LINGUAL, MICROSOFT OFFICE, AR/VR (1 year), Unity3D (5 years) Links http://guillermocovarrubias.com