Sr. Net Developer Sr. Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Net Developer - TC Energy - Looking for remote positions Charleston, WV • 7+ years of experience in Systems Analysis, Design, Development, and Implementation of various applications including Web and Client/Server Application development using Microsoft .NET Framework, Visual Studio, C#.NET, ASP.NET.  • Experience with Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) namely Waterfall, Agile and Prototype, and good knowledge in SCRUM methodology.  • Experience in Designing, Development and Deployment of High-Performance, Scalable, Distributed, ASP.NET Applications. Developed complex win forms usingVB.Net and Oracle 12.1.  • Strong experience in ASP.Net MVC, Web API, WCF, Entity Framework, IIS, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, Bootstrap.  • Experience in NUnit Testing and Implementation of Client/Server applications using C#, MS SQL Server with N-tier development environment. Experience in designing rich interactive WPF applications in XAML using MS Visual Studio.  • Experience in designing, developing and updating Web-Forms using .NET Technologies like HTML5, CSS, C#, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS and ASP.Net. Developing distributed application using web services in C# and vb.net.  • Experience in consuming, building and implementing Web Services using SOAP and REST Protocols. Experience in data accessing using Data Adapter, Data Reader & Data Set in ADO.NET and Entity Framework.  • Extensive working experience with different methodologies like Agile (Scrum), Test-driven development (TDD) and Waterfall methodologies.  • Solid understanding and hands-on experience of large-scale databases (SQL Server 2008/2008R2/2012), MySQL, Oracle 10g/11g and experience with writing Stored Procedures, Triggers, User Defined Functions, Queries, Indexes, and Views.  • Experience in creating Services and Endpoints and working with WCF (Windows Communication Foundation). Experience developing applications using MVC 5.x/4.0/3.0/2.0 and MVVM.  • Highly dedicated, quick starter, solution driven pattern programmer, strong in Object Oriented Analysis and Design.  • Excellent at solving complex problems under strict deadlines, communication, and interpersonal skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Net Developer TC Energy - Charleston, WV November 2017 to Present Developed couple of applications as Internal application named as Navigates UI and CMRS and the applications is used for the commercial pipeline. It controls everything from agreements, orders, tracking, accounting and billing. CMRS is an online tool that tracks high-level information/milestones of the meter request process from customer request to project complete. It is not meant to replace existing systems/processes. It is a helpful, informational tool for non-project personnel and management to review.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the data layer class using C# which is reusable for data transactions of entire project and business logic using C#.NET, used the developed data layer class extensively for database related transactions.  • Refactored, re-architected, and enhanced an existing Angular application to follow strict MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance.  • Implemented code first approach Entity Framework to provide code flexibility and to have more customization options and full control over the code.  • Constructed data access layer using Repository design pattern and Entity Framework using Database first approach in Entity Framework in visual studio in code- first method to generate database using repository, controller, Models to create layer connect with client app.  • Implement AJAX functionality for seamless interactions, develop generic error handling functionality to show user friendly messages and implement client-side validations to validate user, using HTML, JavaScript, jQuery in the application.  • Created SPAs with multiple views using route services and developed/tested features in an AGILE environment using Angular 7 and Typescript.  • Enhanced legacy application by building new components in Angular 7 and typescript. Created reusable templates using Angular directives and worked with NPM package manager tools. Used NPM for installing required node modules and other published Angular NPM modules.  • Implemented with Angular CLI for creating components, Services, pipes, Directives. some of the new features of Angular 4 like new if else syntax, ng-templates, form validators.  • Contribute in manual testing in Test regions efforts and test design as needed and write effective SQL queries for checking and managing data during test activities for critical business functionalities using SQL and MVC.  • Meetings with the Business Analyst for gathering the requirements to determine the state of design within the constraints and Modify existing software for the requirement changes and error corrections.  • Worked closely with the BA and end user to clarify requirements and discuss reported issues. Also asked for and received assistance from his technical lead when he has encountered problems, which caused him difficulty. Participates in all the scheduled status calls, giving his updates clearly and concisely.  • Work with Source Controls like VSTS for creating branches, reverting the code and merging & GIT for check-in the code, VSTS Supports Developed code in all environments.  • After the code merged into main branch build and deployment will be the next further process. For build we use TeamCity which is powerful continuous integration tool, Build is configured with the appropriate build number followed by.  • Involved in code deployments from one environment to other will be held in Octopus.  Environment: ASP.NET MVC and C#, SQL stored procedures, JavaScript and jQuery, Angular 4 and Angular 7, LINQ to SQL, XML, AJAX, HTML5, CSS, TFS, NUnit, MS Test, Azure websites, Octopus deployments and Team city build and TypeScript and Unit testing, GIT and VSTS. Sr.Net Developer Lowes Inc - Mooresville, NC February 2017 to November 2017 Responsibilities:  • Development of an internal application i.e. Quote Tool for the representatives to generate quotes for the retail and business customers by offering good discounts with an estimated margin.  • The quotes are generated for both ATG stores and Lowes products.  • Customers will also receive an e-mail from the system, i.e., confirmation e-mail once the quote is ordered.  • This application is developed using ASP.NET MVC 4.5, Web API, C#, JavaScript and JQuery. Involved in requirement analysis, designing and development using AGILE methodology to implement the application.  • Extensively used ASP.Net MVC architecture for the Web application design to have the application layers closely coupled. Created Business Logic Layer & Data Access Layers implementing the MVC architecture.  • Developed core web services in Web API to read/write data from SQL Server Database using Entity Framework.  • Developed Complex database objects like Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages, and Triggers using SQL Server.  • Used advanced features of T-SQL to design and tune T-SQL to interface with the Database and other applications in the most efficient manner and created Stored Procedures for the business logic using T-SQL.  • Designed and developed SSIS Packages to import the data from multiple flat files located on the Lowes Inc site to the SQL Server database using various SSIS transformations. Created DAL (Data Access Layers) to establish database connectivity and data manipulation.  • Implemented role base security, customizable workflows for each user based on the user's role and implemented forms Authentication and Authorization for providing security for application. Implemented Logging Mechanism using Log4Net.  • Developed with N-Tier architectures SOA, SOLID (Object Oriented Design) and MVC Pattern Dependency Injection.  • Developed Quotation System in MS WinForms utilizing MVP/Event Aggregator Patterns. Used VB.Net and ADO.NET to define and implement Business Logic Layer and Data Access Layer.  • Responsible for designing Rich user Interface Applications using JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, HTML and AJAX. Created JavaScript modules to be used with Bootstrap to speed up development and include responsiveness to the page. Improving the performance of the ETL by indexing and caching  • Configured and managed multiple instances of SQL Server for storing Session State and TFS data. Designed Master pages, User Control, Custom controls, Partial views and used Ajax Toolkit to meet user requirements and to develop the application efficiently without code redundancy.  • Developed Business logic layer that includes code behind files and classes in N-Tier using ASP.Net with C# in Visual Studio 2012.  • Developed the server-side code using C#, VB.Net and client-side code using Java Script with Visual Studio IDE, used LINQ entity framework for retrieving data from the SQL database.  • Used Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), events and delegates. Used JavaScript and jQuery to control the user interactions and validation on client side.  Environment: MVC 4.5, Razor Views, Partial Views, Layouts, C#, ASP.net, Visual Studio 2013, SQL Server 2012, Web Services, WCF, Java Script, jQuery, FileNet, Web API, LINQ to SQL, T-SQL, VB.Net, XML, AJAX, HTML5, CSS, TFS, NUnit, MS Test. Senior .Net Developer State of WI - Madison, WI June 2016 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • The application that would help DOR (Department of Revenue) to operate entire day to day operation for all tax types from Registration, filing returns, processing payments, Creating Collection cases, generating reports and allowing taxpayers to file returns, make payments, check the status of returns and balance due Online. I worked on Return Processing and Payment Processing modules.  • Interacted with the client end-users during requirements gathering sessions.  • To understand existing applications and accreditation business rules in order to accurately implement existing business rules in SharePoint Portal.  • Created and Implemented ASP.NET Web API Controllers and Models and Entity Framework.  • Web Design & Development of User Interfaces using ASP .NET, C#, XML, HTML.  • Middle Tier Business Component Development using C#.NET to incorporate business.  • Implemented back-end connectivity using entity framework and Implementation of client-side validations using JQuery and ASP.NET MVC Validation implemented at Controller.  • Worked with business and gathered requirements and integrate the changes in the power builder-based Claims application and FileNet based applications.  • Involved to write complex T-SQL queries and Stored Procedures for generating reports.  • Developed database triggers and stored procedures using T-SQL cursors and tables.  • Wrote complex T-SQL queries for data extraction, loading the Data in RDB (Relational Database) Landing through SSIS Packages.  • Used N-tier architecture for the presentation layer, the Business, and Data Access Layers.  • Involved in implementation of several WPF applications, all of which use MVVM pattern.  • Used validation techniques and Java Script for User Input Validations. Designed and developed web forms using ASP and VB Script  • Created new model classes in Web API to hold data, and Implemented WCF to provide various Services like authentication, User Definition, Logging, Configuration and Data Access to the applications.  • Involved in migrating the data from SOA to RESTful services using ASP.NET Web API.  • Used Angular UI Router for routing pages. Used Angular Bootstrap for rich user interface and faster performance. Written services, directives and controllers using Angular JS.  • Implemented Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) to improve look and feel of the ASP.NET Web Page. Involved in writing Unit test cases for Business layer.  Environment: ASP.NET MVC 4.0, Visual studio 2013, WCF, VB.Net, FileNet, C# 4.5, T-SQL, MVVM, Web API, Entity framework, XML, HTML, Java Script, JQuery, Angular JS, AJAX, HTML, SOA. .NET Developer ExxonMobil - Houston, TX December 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed Asp.Net modules using MVC (Model-View-Controller) pattern.  • Worked in Agile/Scrum Environment to develop the application by meeting the timelines and interacting with team.  • Involved in Portal framework design and development.  • Took part in client meetings, requirements gathering, analysis & prepared sequence diagrams.  • Implemented WCF Services using C# to be used by ASP.NET applications.  • Developed web services using WCF & Web API.  • Designed custom applications as step processor using FileNet process APIs  • Data importing/exporting using XML serialization/de-serialization  • Developed security module which deals with validating user, changing passwords and restricted access to users for specific features like enrollment and search for customers based on their roles and rights using ASP.NET Form based and Role based authentication.  • Used Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) to obtain GUI and items such as button, menu, grids, and list box which are built-in to display validations using WPF and extending control functionality using XAML attached properties.  • Created operational and Ad-Hoc reports by using reports were critical for daily Inpatients/Outpatients analysis and Knowledge about daily Hospital Nursing Scenarios. T-SQL Queries and SSRS.  • Worked in WCF to send data as asynchronous messages from one service endpoint to another and service hosted by IIS.  • Developed system services SOA application platform for use by all web applications utilizing WCF services and the ASP.NET 3.0/3.5 provider model. User interface screens developed using VB.Net and using Telerik RAD Ajax controls  • Implemented AJAX and used Ajax Controls toolkit to improve performance, responsiveness, interactivity, and features of application.  • Make substantial contributions in simplifying the development and maintenance of ETL by creating re-usable Source, Target, Mapplets and Transformation objects. Involved in deploying the application on the IIS server.  • Maintained the Version, Labeled Versions and Backups of the source using Git Hub. Performed debugging and exception handling in support to the software development. Active participation in unit testing of the application to ensure quality. Fixed bugs reported by QA and UAT.  • Participated in various client meetings with the team and the Project manager to discuss improvements/amendments in the development of the section.  Environment: MVC 4.0, C#, ASP.Net MVC, Web API, VB.Net, Visual Studio 2015, SQL Server 2014, T-SQL, IIS, WCF, JavaScript, WPF, ReactJS, jQuery, AJAX, HTML, XAML, CSS, Git Hub, Source tree, Nunit. Web Developer June 2012 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (SLDC).  • Performed functional requirement analysis and was involved in system design based on n-tier architecture.  • Re-written the parts of existing application modules for performance and implemented the reusability.  • Involved in the development of Business Logic Layer and Data Access Layer in C#.  • Created classes and modules in C# using Visual Studio.  • Developed the Front End using ASP.NET and Code behind using C#.NET.  • Used features like Dataset, Data Reader and Data Adapter to develop a Data Access Layer using ADO.NET.  • Involved in Database design.  • Team Written and used Stored Procedures and Triggers using T-SQL in SQL Server 2005.  • Worked on the Calendar Control to display the scheduled transfers.  • Created .NET Crystal Reports for statistical analysis of usage of the system, which can be accessed as web report as well as in PDF format using acrobat reader.  • Used Windows Services to trigger the scheduled transfers.  • Used Custom Validations Controls with JavaScript for client-side validations  Environment: Microsoft .NET Framework 2.0/3.0, Visual Studio .Net 2003/2005, C#, ASP.NET 2.0, ADO.NET, SQL Server 2000/2005, Web Forms, Web Services, TFS. Education Bachelors in Computer Science Engineering in SLC'S Southern Arkansas University in Magnolia City Skills .NET, VISUAL STUDIO, C#, C++, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, JSON, MICROSOFT .NET, WCF, VB.NET, VISIO, XML, AJAX, ASP, CSS, DHTML, IIS, ASP.NET, WEB SERVICES, Angular, Java, Node, PHP, React, Angularjs, AWS, NET, Nodejs, Python Links http://usingVB.Net Certifications/Licenses Driver's License