UI Front End Developer UI Front End <span class="hl">Developer</span> Atlanta, GA Having 9+ years of experience in front-end web development (visual and user interface).  Deliver best in class fully functional applications using the latest in front-end technologies.  Large scale data processing Experience with styling and Responsive Design techniques using technologies such as HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, LESS, and SASS.  Experience with modern client-side libraries, frameworks, including Angular, jQuery, JavaScript build tools and dependency management (node, npm, grunt, gulp).   Build robust single page applications SPA's using Typescript, Angular and tooling.  Experience working in an Agile/Scrum development process and using the associated tools (git, Jira, Confluence, etc.).  Experience consuming REST API's in partnership with back end development teams.  Extensive experience on implementing the AJAX with rich features.  Expertise in debugging web application errors through the use of Chrome Dev Tools.  Quickly prototype ideas to enhance, evaluate requirements and usability.  Design and develop content for web pages, web applications, banners and interactive elements aligned with usability best practices.  The ability to see from the point of view of the user and deliver creative solutions.  Experienced in creating style guides, layout, and graphic assets.  Collaborate with Creative/Design team and contribute to development coding guidelines  Well versed in usability best practices as well as standards-compliant web development. Screen layouts, wireframes, color palettes, typography, user interface elements, and prototypes.  Familiarity with the challenges of supporting large Content Management Systems CMS.   Effectively communicate conceptual ideas, translate business requirements into interactive web applications.   Work collaboratively with Business team and Development team to solve UI Problems and figure out how to incorporate latest innovations in to existing projects.   Understand the business logic and technical constraints, and finding ways to adapt the design without compromising usability.  Highly motivated, detail oriented, self-starter, can handle tight deadlines and simultaneous multiple projects while managing to the day-to-day deadlines.  Worked closely with information architects, developers, designers and others to produce a team-driven end product that leads to a top-notch user experience. Work Experience UI Front End Developer Delta Airlines - Atlanta, GA September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Attend daily scrum standup meeting, sprint plan meetings and sprint retrospective meetings.  • Develop front-end application using Typescript and Angular4 and Angular6.  • Implement angular6 components, custom directives, services, forms and life cycle hooks.  • Convert the UX design screens to code using HTML5, CSS3 and bootstrap.  • Used SASS variables and mixins for the responsive application.  • Developed the components using Angular 6 needed for the application from the scratch and customizing from various Angular related libraries to meet the application's functionality.  • Collaborate closely with other team members to work through Rest-API end-points and also worked closely with other front-end developers.  • Content managed by Adobe AEM, worked closely with AEM team.  • Move the assets, styles and angular build files to AEM and deploy the code in dev environment.  • Used GIT version control to add new files, pull and push the local changes.  • Performed few architectural tasks to configure package json, Angular json, Karma conf specs and configuring the global styles used across the application.  • Deployed code in DEV manually as well as run automated Jenkins builds.  • Worked with Devops team to setup the automated Jenkins build to configure different stages.  • Coordinate with release management team to push the code to test and stage environments and participate in regular monthly Prod deployment activities.  • Coordinate with offshore team on regular basis for the updates.  • Work closely with Business team, UX team, QA team and backend team.  • Implement the web accessibility and used tools like screen readers for testing the web accessibility check points.  • Work with AX team to follow accessibility standards and fix the accessibility defects.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, Angular4/6, Typescript, Javascript, Bootstrap, GIT, Gitlab, AEM, JIRA Web UI Developer AT&T - Atlanta, GA March 2016 to August 2018 • Worked as a part of the agile development and involved in the planning, design and implementation of the full life cycle of the project.  • Attended daily scrum standby meeting, sprint retrospective meeting and sprint plan meetings.  • Demo the sprint user stories to Business team and product owners.  • Developed front-end UI with HTML5, CSS3, LESS, SASS, JavaScript, jQuery and Angular  • Implemented front-end functionality with Angular JS and Angular2.0.  • Worked on advanced Angular concepts; modules, components, services, pipe, observables, JavaScript design patterns, callbacks, classes.  • Created angular2 components and worked on re-usable components.  • Worked closely with Backend API team to get the required data for front-end.  • Utilized Angular 2 in the development for building SPA and to consume RESTful web services.  • Utilized NPM Grunt, Gulp to automate the typescript compilation and build the bundle.js.  • Used At&t digital design frame work to implement front-end responsive design.  • Created wireframes and PSD's for Shopping cart Application.   • Participated in UX calls for review wire frames with UX team.   • Deploy builds in DEV and Test environment using Jenkins and FTP tools.  • Worked closely with QA team for fixing defects, used QC for tracking the defects.  • Coordinate with offshore team on regular basis for the updates and Involved in code reviews.  • Worked closely with business team, product owners and gather the requirements.  • Worked closely with java developers to get the exact UI functionality as per the Annotated wireframes and redlines.  • Followed the At&t standard guide lines to implement the web accessibility and used tools like fire Eyes and screen readers for testing the web accessibility check points.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, LESS, Angular2, AngularJS, Typescript, Javascript, NodeJS,   Webpack, gulp, GIT, JIRA, Adobe Photoshop, Quality Control. UI Developer Newell Brands - Atlanta, GA February 2015 to December 2015 • Developed front-end UI with HTML5, CSS3, LESS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Customized IBM WCS widgets to change the look and feel based on the designs provided.  • Integrate and updated the front-end code in JSP's.  • Developed HTML's for IBM WCS Content Management System.  • Implemented responsive design using LESS and IBM WCS css frame work.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Implemented e-commerce shopping cart module.  • Developed complex web forms, jQuery plugins and effects.  • Performed DOM operations for loading and manipulating dynamic content on WebPages.  • Coordinate with offshore DEV team on daily basis regarding the dev issues.  • Involved in UX discussions and provided valuable inputs in developing wireframes.  • Involved in fixing the defects raised by QA team.  • Used IBM Rational Application Developer (IDE) for development.  • Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) version control to add new files, check in ,pull and  commit the local changes.  • Worked closely with UX team, Java developers, QA team, business analysts and project managers.  Collaborate closely with executives and information architect for gathering requirements and go through the use cases required for the application. UI Developer BRIDGE2 SOLUTIONS - Atlanta, GA April 2014 to December 2014 • Developed front-end UI with HTML5, CSS3, SASS, Bootstrap, JavaScript and Angular JS.  • Implemented Angular JS API Calls with JSON.  • Worked on Angular JS Modules, routing, Controllers, Directives and expressions.  • Implemented responsive design using SASS.  • Created SASS variables, mixins, and typography for Desktop, tablet and mobile using bootstrap.  • Involved in fixing the defects for all devices (desktop, table and mobile).  • Used Firebug and web developer browser tools for debugging.  • Used GIT version control to add new files, pull and push the local changes.  • Worked closely with java developers to get the exact UI functionality as per the Annotated wireframes and redlines provided by Chase.  • Used JIRA for User stories , bug tracking , time tracking, Agile Implementation and Application Lifecycle Management.  • Worked closely with members of the development and QA teams to ensure the front-end code can be effectively integrated with the technical solution in an Agile Software Development environment. UI UX Developer IHG Hotels Group - Atlanta, GA September 2012 to March 2014 • Participated in client discovery sessions and assist in defining business requirements.  • Developed  the front-end by doing hands-on coding using  HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, DOM, Ajax  with a focus on usability.  • Write CSS that supports proper cross-browser functionality including all versions of IE and IPAD.  • Write JavaScript, jQuery for front-end functionality and Integrate font-end UI.  • Update JSP’s, Liferay portlets and publish CMS web content.  • Worked on Liferay theme.  • Solved UI and visual problems. Worked with CSS Sprite images.   • Designed sprite icons, buttons and navigation elements using Adobe Photoshop.  • Developed and maintain detailed user-interface specifications and design patterns.  • Involved in fixing the tickets raised by QA team.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and supported till IE7.  • Used  SVN for version control  and Quality center for bug tracking. UI UX Developer Dish - Denver, CO July 2009 to August 2012 • Convert visual designs to UI using HTML, CSS, JS and jQuery to create dynamic and rich content.  • Involved in developing Dishnetwork promotions, landing pages, Micro sites and affiliates.  • Involved in updating the day to day content for upcoming sports events, movies schedules, Pay-per view events and channels information for Dish.com, Mydish.com, and Dishlatino.com.  • Worked with developers on browser compatibility issues and bug fixing.  • Developed complex web forms and front-end validations.  • Involved in designing PSD's for Promotions and landing pages.  • Updating and standardizing user interface across the site.  • Used PVCS version control to push changes from dev to QA.  • Developed Flash Banners, presentations, flash video’s using Action Script.  • Responsible for ongoing maintenance, bug fixing, and quality improvement of code.  • Responsible for SEO during webpage updates and maintenance.  • Worked closely with creative leads, content editor, business analysts, .Net developers, QA team, project managers and stakeholders.   • Worked closely with marketing team to get the required content, logos, assets etc. to update the promotions and upcoming events on regular basis. Education Bachelor's Skills Angular, Bootstrap, CSS3, Front End, Front-End, Javascript, React, UI, Node, HTML5, Jquery, Angularjs, User Interface, Node js