UI/Demand ware Developer UI/Demand ware <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI/Demand ware Developer - Demandware script and UI technologies Miami, FL • 8+ years of extensive experience in designing User Interface applications and integration of highly transactional and scalable Web Based Applications and UI Applications.   • Expert knowledge of the UI design process and deliverables throughout the development lifecycle.  • Experience in RESTful web services development.  • 3 years of experience in development in Demandware/Salesforce Commerce Cloud (SFCC) using Pipeline, ISML, DW Script, HTML5, CSS3.  • Implemented and develop cartridges for Demandware (example, Registry, OMS, Cyber Source, Bazzar voice.   • Proficient in Object Oriented Design/Development (OOD), Model View Control (MVC) design pattern and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  • Developed single page applications using AngularJS and implemented customized User interface for the user using Node.JS.  • Expertise knowledge on Node Package Manager (NPM) to manage the modules and worked on few of them  • Expertise in building device independent UI designs using both media queries and frameworks like Twitter Bootstrap.   • Experience in using the latest approaches including MVVM in the browser, event-driven application using AJAX, JavaScript, JSON.  • Experience in working with both Object Oriented and Functional JavaScript and worked with Vanilla JavaScript.   • Expertise in working with various Front-End JavaScript frameworks like Angular, React, Backbone   • Experience in creating templates, mockup, web interface, layouts and prototypes.  • Proficient in Web-enabled application programming languages (HTML4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript).   • Experience in designing websites with W3C standards using HTML4/5, CSS2/3 to get best cross-browser user experience for long-term user retention and engagement.  • Proficient in making AJAX calls using JQUERY and usage of JSON for faster and impulsive responses.   • Experience in working with Databases like SQL, SQLite.   • Worked in grunt and gulp for task running and minification.   • Write documentation for technical and user expect of web modules.  • Gathered requirements from various stakeholders and convert them into the technical documentation.   • Effective communication, planning, and problem-solving skills with ability to work independently or work cross-functional teams.  • Quick learner, hard worker and a team player. Work Experience Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI/Demand ware Developer Demandware script and UI technologies - Charlotte, NC May 2017 to Present Provide development and production support. Deploy code and data to production. Analyze and develop bug fixes.    • Updating Demandware application features using html 5, heavy Javascript, jQuery, Ajax and MVC.  • Develop new ecommerce web modules using pipeline, isml, Demandware script and UI technologies.  • Solving critical issues and bugs in Demandware using eclipse, UX studio, Bitbucket and Jenkins.  • Finalize workflows and best practices for the UI. Created working prototypes to finalize future user stories and epics.  • Using Angular develop one-page application for marketing and promotional website.  • Architect the UI/UX information design and functionality.  • Developed pixel perfect fit and finish interface layouts and functionality from redlines with HTML 5 and CSS 3.  • Design and Develop web modules using node, expressjs and nosql database for marketing web sites.  • Develop and maintain new Cron jobs to provide and gather necessary information for a product.  • Using Bitbucket and SourceTree, managing the code version and create a new when needed.  • Supporting Marketing team, Customer Service and offshore team when needed.  • Participate in code review and unit testing to ensure quality code and markup.    ENVIRONMENT: Demandware, MVC, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Jquery, BootStrap, Pipeline, Angular, Expressjs, Demandware Script, ISML, Eclipse, BitBucket, Jenkins, Agile/SCRUM. UI / Demandware Developer Tarte Cosmetics - New York, NY November 2016 to April 2017 • Requirement gathering from marketing teams and participate in solution discussion with the team.  • Develop new and promotional web module through SDLC in Demandware, an MVC Framework using ISML, Pipeline, Demandware Script, Angular and bootstrap.  • Architected two promotional/marketing responsive web sites and guided three developer using node, express, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, media query and bootstrap CSS.  • Develop code for bugs using Eclipse IDE, Bitbucket for version control and Cloudbees for code build. Solved daily issues and fixes bugs using agile methodology.  • Integrate multiple third-party API across the site using the REST API method. E.g. social feeds, news feeds, Facebook.  • Worked on MySQL Database and managing the data.  • Develop and maintain new Cron jobs to provide and gather necessary information for a product.  • Using Git and tortoise Git, manage the code version and create a new when needed.  • Work with system users to identify the problems with a focus on performance and patches.  • Collaborated with database administrators to design and implement appropriate data structures and optimize the performance.  • Spearheaded project planning sessions with managers, business analysts, and team members to analyze business requirements and outline proposed IT solutions.  • Optimize the web site and reduce the page load time up to 70%.    ENVIRONMENT: Demandware, PHP, MySql, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Jquery, Angular, MVC, BootStrap, Pipeline, Demandware Script, ISML, Eclipse, RESP API, BitBucket, Jenkins. UI/ Demand Ware Developer Panasonic Corporation of NA - Newark, NJ July 2015 to October 2016 • Gathering requirements from various group and convert them in to the technical documentation.  • Develop new and promotional web module through SDLC in Demandware, an MVC Framework using ISML, Pipeline, Demandware Script, Angular and bootstrap.  • Performed code and data replication on Demandware CMS.  • Architected promotional/marketing responsive web sites and guided three developer using media query and bootstrap CSS.  • Integrate multiple third-party API across the site using the REST API method  • Did code and data replication from Staging to Production and staging to development for B2B and B2C sites.  • Developed one-page application using angular js and node js.  • Develop code for bugs using Eclipse IDE, Bitbucket for version control and Cl.  • Used Bootstrap and media queries to make data post and data retrieval components responsive.  • Involved in business analysts with team members to analyze business requirements and outline proposed IT solutions.  • Used Agile methodologies to deliver solutions with prominent level of flexibility and adaptability.    ENVIRONMENT: Demandware, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular.JS, Jquery, BootStrap, Pipeline, Demandware Script, REST API, ISML, Eclipse, BitBucket, Cloudbees. UI/UX Developer Panasonic Corporation of NA - Newark, NJ March 2012 to June 2015 • Developed web modules for e-commerce and promotional site through SDLC, using ASP.NET and C#, JavaScript/jQuery, Visual SourceSafe as a version control and Visual Studio.  • Responsible for JavaScript/AJAX UI upgrades and improvements.  • Implemented an AJAX based application by fetching the response from backend API as a part of JSON.  • Develop new responsive templates using html5, css3, and media query. Developed a completely innovative marketing/ promotional site.  • Successfully applied the Analytic code to the sites.  • Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  • Coordinate with Internal IT team on site/CMS maintenance to ensure the overall quality of the site and resolve bugs.  • Integral to strategy and implementation concerning analytical reporting.    ENVIRONMENT: ASP.NET, C#, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Jquery, BootStrap, Pipeline, Visual Studio, Visual Source Safe, Cloudbees. Web Developer Zignage LLC - New York, NY September 2011 to February 2012 • Designed and implemented dynamic Web content and web server application using PHP, XML, JavaScript and its libraries like jQuery and SOAP.  • Converted mock-ups into hand-written HTML 4.0, CSS, XHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, and JSON  • Coded and launched a website using WordPress and GoDaddy.  • Integration of Google Maps API using JavaScript.  • Extensively used CSS along with RWD to apply unique styles to the layouts for varying screen sizes and pixels.    ENVIRONMENT: PHP, MySql, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Jquery, BootStrap, Pipeline, Subliime, GIT, Jenkin. Web Developer HaraPartners - New York, NY January 2010 to August 2011 • Learned and Created new modules for Magento using PHP and Zend Framework.  • Working on SQLite Database and managing data in it  • Created functions in JavaScript to perform asynchronous calls using AJAX.  • Provided improvised performance and easily maintain scripts/producers and CRON jobs to run in the back-end.  • Used AJAX call to get JSON data from APIs and used data for various representations to the user. Education Bachelor's