Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Albany, NY Work Experience Web Developer SKS Bottle & Packaging - Saratoga Springs, NY September 2018 to Present Manage existing websites for 2 different businesses that brought in 3 million annually. This included performing bug fixes, content updates, and performance optimization. Directly responsible for completion of various programming requests and maintenance of the custom internal management system.  Key Accomplishments:  ? Programmed and developed feature that enabled international customers to get an itemized cost breakdown of customs duties, fees, and tariffs depending on their entered country.  ? Implementation of an API that allowed the website to suggest and correct changes if a customer mistakenly entered the wrong address. Technical Specialist Apple - Albany, NY January 2018 to May 2019 Managed complex hardware, software, and network problems to accurately resolve issues, and prepare reports summarizing and analyzing the issues for over 100+ macOS computer and iOS devices.  ? Collaborated with Business team in evaluating and analyzing potential solutions and opportunities for local businesses.  ? Ensured efficient and helpful technical support by promoting an environment that delivered high quality customer service. Web Developer Intern University at Albany - Albany, NY January 2018 to May 2018 Conducted website content management, maintenance and updates to all 15+ Student Affairs departmental websites.  ? Helped develop and execute web content strategy to increase awareness, website traffic, search engine rank, and lead university activities.  ? Worked cooperatively with key marketing personnel including copywriter, designer, videographer and photographer. Teaching Assistant University at Albany - Albany, NY January 2008 to 2010 Coordinated with Professor to provide academic assistance to over 30+ students', assess their specific learning needs and reinforce learning concepts. Used Blackboard ticketing system to answer immediate questions and concerns outside of office hours.    Key Responsibilities:  ? In lieu of teachers absence, provided the class with assignments and taught coursework to further advance students knowledge and skills in Python programming. Education Bachelor of Science in Informatics in Digital Design University at Albany May 2018 Skills Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Php, Python, Swift, Html5, Ios, Css, jquery, Sql, Macos, Front End, HTML Links http://isaiahsosa.github.io Additional Information SKILLS  HTML5, CSS, PHP, Javascript, Python, SQL, React.js, Bootstrap, jQuery, Swift macOS Windows iOS Git