UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - ADT Corporation • Experience in developing, editing, publishing and managing content on the external Web pages and internal portals.  • Experience in designing professional UI web applications using front-end technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, XML, XHTML, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, Angular.js, Node.js and Flash.  • Support all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging and deploying  • Worked extensively with the File management and image libraries.  • Experience providing support services and debugged web application using Firebug  • Interacted with users at different levels through weekly demos to ensure continuous feedback and meet user requirements.  • Creative Knowledge in Art creation, modification and conversion- Logos, print media, web page and software interface design using Photoshop, Adobe Flash and Illustrator.  • Professional in creating Templates, Mockups and Prototypes, Web Interfaces, Layouts and Flow of Future Pages.  • Experience in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and extensive experience with Agile and SCRUM.  • Worked closely with the project management and marketing team to completely define specifications to help ensure project acceptance.  • Self-starter always inclined to learn new technologies and team player with very good communication, organizational and interpersonal skills. Work Experience UI Developer ADT Corporation - Boca Raton, FL June 2015 to Present ADT is one of leading company in electronic security. The project is to develop Mobile applications using HTML5, CSS3, JSON, XML, and AngularJS framework.  Responsibilities:  • Assist in program design, coding, code review, debugging, and documentation  • Assist in unit testing, support user acceptance testing, analyze and resolve application defects.  • Used Angular.js and MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications.  • Install and configure IBM Work light / Mobile First platform for local application development.  • Install and configure Jasmine and Karma automated unit test tools and write unit test cases for Angularjs directives, models, and filters.  • Interacted with users at different levels through Weekly demos to ensure continuous feedback and meet user requirements.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Eclipse, JQuery, SVN, Bootstrap, Angular.js, XML, JSON, Photoshop and Windows. UI Developer Net Boss Technologies Inc - Sebastian, FL October 2014 to May 2015 Net Boss Technologies is an Operational Support Systems (OSS) solutions. The main goal of the project was to redesign their website which included creating web pages for their products and making some content dynamic whenever necessary.  Responsibilities:  • Developed UI using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery, and JSP for interactive cross browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties.    • Used Google analytics reports, optimized the page load time for the pages that had heavy traffic and improvised those pages using CSS.  • Created HTML navigation menu that is role based menu items changes dynamically, derived from the database in the form of XML.  • Used AngularJS as the development framework to build single page application.  • Used Dojo Components and integrating back-end applications with AJAX driven web 2.0 front-end using OO JavaScript framework.  • Used Ajax, JSON with jQuery for request data and response processing.  • Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using JMS for sending and receiving messages while creating web services.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Web API, JavaScript, Eclipse, AngularJS, JQuery, SVN, Responsive Design, Bootstrap, Angular.js, XML, JSON, Photoshop, Dreamweaver and Windows. UI developer Adobe - San Jose, CA June 2013 to September 2014 Adobe is a leader of digital marketing and digital media solutions. The project is to develop web applications. Worked as a front end developer to maintain their product design.  Responsibilities:  • Extensively used JavaScript to provide dynamic User Interface and for the client side validations.  • Developed front end for the entire website using HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.  • Involved in creating dynamic web site design and programming using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Designated UI architecture for the internal web application and worked with designers to constructs conceptual Wireframes and Mockups.  • Responsible for the design of client websites right from the conceptualization stage to its implementation and maintenance.  • Used JQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree. Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework.  • Applied techniques for cross-browser and cross-platform interface development(Node JS)  • Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging and deploying.    Environment: HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, DHTML, XHTML, D3 Js, AngularJS, Adobe Photoshop, Eclipse, CVS, Node.js Dreamweaver, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, SVN, JSON and Windows. UI Developer Barnes Noble - New York, NY September 2011 to May 2013 Barnes Noble is online books, magazines store and game store. Designed application provides comprehensive information of the various types of books, eBooks and related products. The website functionality was extended by providing the customers to login and performs online transactions like paying buying online.  Responsibilities:  • Designed Logos and Templates using HTML, DHTML, CSS, and Adobe Photoshop.  • Extensively used JavaScript to provide dynamic User Interface and for the client side validations.  • Used AJAX framework for asynchronous data transfer between the browser and the server.  • Developed page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management review.  • Designated UI architecture for the internal web application and worked with designers to constructs conceptual Wireframes and Mockups.  • Designed the front end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS.  • Responsible for the design of client websites right from the conceptualization stage to its implementation and maintenance.  • Used Angular JS framework for building web-apps and is highly efficient with PHP framework as Well as using Restful services.    Environment: HTML, CSS2/CSS, DHTML, Angular JS, XHTML, Adobe Photoshop, Dreamweaver, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, JSON and Windows. UI Developer Cerner Corporation - Kansas City, MO June 2010 to August 2011 Cerner Corporation is a foundation of intelligent solutions for the health care industry. Provide application development and support for the Department of Health and Welfare Web Applications. In Scrum, Agile environment enhance, monitor, troubleshoot IBES (Idaho Benefits Eligibility System) J2EE Enterprise state wide on-line web application that interfaces with external partners federal, medical and financial institutions.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Web pages using HTML, CSS including Ajax controls, JSON and XML.  • Developed data insertion forms and validated them using JavaScript  • Validated input values to make sure that they will be accepted before they are submitted to the server.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time and add modal dialog in web pages to get user input and requests.  • Responsible for updating contents on existing content management websites according to client's requirements.  • Used best coding practices and naming conventions while writing code in JavaScript, HTML and CSS.  • Drove multiple component design sessions parallel, creating design artifacts according to specifications  • Utilized new software methodologies to be able to adapt to changes in requirements quickly  • Ensured that all components of the application are platform and browser compatible.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, XML, JQuery, agile methodology, Windows. Web UI Developer Yell Ad works India Pvt Ltd July 2009 to May 2010 Responsibilities:    • Responsible for Design and development of Web pages using HTML, CSS including Ajax controls and XML.  • Coded Business Logic component using PHP.  • Developed UI using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JavaScript validations and XML.  • Worked extensively with the File management and image libraries.  • Performed Client-side validations using JavaScript.  • Fixed bugs and provided support services for the application.  • Tested/Debugged web browser using Firebug  • Managed and implemented all codes changes via SVN. Deploying builds across development, staging and production instances and maintained code integrity.    Environment: JavaScript, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Windows 2000/XP Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, XML, XHTML, XSLT, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, Apache, Android, iOS, Windows.  JavaScript Libraries: Backbone.js, Node.js Angular.js  IDE's and Tools: Eclipse IDE/3.X, Dreamweaver, Apache Tomcat server 5.0, Web Logic 8.1, Sublime Text  Publishing Tools: Adobe PageMaker, MS Office  Wire Frame Tools: Adobe Illustrator CSS3 (basic idea on wire frame and visual design)  Debugging Tools: Firebug, Bugzilla, (internet explorer)  Database: PL/SQL (oracle), MySQL, MSSQL  Operating System: Windows NT4.0 XP/, UNIX, MAC OS X