Web/Application Developer (Contract Position) <span class="hl">Web</span>/Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> (Contract Position) Web/Application Developer Los Angeles, CA I currently live in Los Angeles and am seeking a permanent .Net Developer position. A position where my skills and experience will be utilized to create applications that improve efficiency and increase profitability. Work Experience Web/Application Developer (Contract Position) MGM Entertainment - Beverly Hills, CA May 2018 to March 2019 • Visual Studio 2015, C#, SQL Server 2014, ASP.Net, Angular 7.  • Developed internal web business applications utilizing ASP.Net Master Pages, JQuery Datatables, Web API, JQuery Charts and Angular 7 for data display (read-only) application.  • Performed requirements gathering from end users. Worked with application testers for bug identification and fixes. Tutored end users with final product.  • Business application is an N-Tier app with UI, Business and Data Layers.  • Web pages utilized many ASP.Net, JQuery controls as well as Ajax calls for data to populate page controls.  • Created SQL Databases, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Views and Tables for data manipulation.  • Created Windows and Console applications to import xml data files into SQL tables. The xml data is passed to stored procedures for validation and insertion in SQL tables. Web/Application Developer HIllwood Development - Dallas, TX January 2016 to March 2018 • Visual Studio 2015, C#, SQL Server 2012, API's. ASP.Net, DNN, WordPress, MVC5.  • Managed 40 corporate WordPress and DNN (Dot Net Nuke) websites. Including adding/removing/modifying pages.  • Adding vendor plugins/modules. Coded several DNN (Dot Net Nuke) modules in C# utilizing Web Services for displaying page content and updating SQL tables.  • Created a DNN (Dot Net Nuke) Multilanguage (Polish and English) site. Hillwood/pl/pl-pl/  • Implemented Axero/Communifire CMS product (intranet). Heavily modified this CMS to integrate with JDE data. This included requirements gathering and working with end users for final product.  • Created console application that updates, adds, (un)bans users and adds/updates user images for the Communifire product. This application utilizes many restful api's from the Communifire product.  • Published several sites to our Microsoft Azure production server using Microsoft IIS.  • Authored MVC5 application that allows Marketing Directors to update property and builder information. This data is displayed on several corporate websites. .Net Software Developer (Contract Position) CW Capital - Frisco, TX March 2015 to November 2015 • Visual Studio 2012, VB.Net, SQL Server 2008, API's. ASP.Net, SQL Stored Procedures.  • Provided software development modifications for Enterprise Commercial Property applications.  • Created webpages that allow users to select properties from a list using jquery drag and drop.  • Worked with end users to gather requirements for application modifications. Software Developer Careington International - Frisco, TX September 2012 to March 2015 • Visual Studio 2012, C#, SQL Server 2008, Linq, ADO.Net, SQL Stored Procedures.  • Provide production support software development for data intensive corporate applications.  • Converted applications written in Visual Studio 2003 to Visual Studio 2012 with extensive use of threads. Also replaced all ADO.Net queries with Linq to SQL queries as well as calling stored procedures.  • Authored EDI reader application that would read incoming 834 files with member data.  • Composed many Windows applications that do intensive date manipulations, call stored procedures, fill Datatables and Grids, update Excel spreadsheets on network drives and send e-mail alerts to recipients. These newly written applications replaced manual processes.  • Created numerous SSIS packages.  • Created numerous SSRS reports. Software Developer FIS - Dallas, TX May 2011 to June 2012 • Visual Studio 2008, Visual Studio 2010, ASP.Net, VB.Net, SQL Server 2008, SQL Stored Procedures, HTML, JavaScript, Jquery, Ajax, Json, MVC3.  • Using VS 2010 I created many web pages (MVC views) to intranet applications. Used VB.Net to code all the logic in MVC controllers (code behind pages).  • Added user role permissions to pages. These pages are dynamic and what is displayed, both data and controls, depends on what user role the user has.  • Created many data entry jquery dialog boxes using Ajax calls from a referenced script page. We used dialog boxes to save real estate on the page.  • Wrote and tested stored procedures that are called by Linq to SQL.  • Added exception logging to pages. EL will log the exception to the db and send e-mails to designated departments.  • Wrote and tested user login/password reset with validation class. This included populating the user properties in the user class. These properties are used throughout the application.  Added and modified jquery DatePicker. This included adding color theme and acceptable date ranges. C# Software Developer Imerial Fire & Casualty - Dallas, TX August 2010 to January 2011 • Visual Studio 2008, ASP.Net, VB.Net, SQL Server 2008, SQL Stored Procedures.  • Created new ASP.Net Web Forms Management application utilizing Data Layer, Business Layer, Web Services and Gridviews. Allowing Product Department to manage forms without page postback.  • Authored new real time reports used on ASP.Net website to alert agents of pending suspended policies.  • Co-Authored new ASP.Net web application used by agents to utilize online quote system. This web app receives online quote requests that utilize xml, xslt, reflections and the Factory Design Pattern. .Net Programmer CPEHR - West Hollywood, CA October 2008 to April 2010 Visual Studio 2008, ASP.Net, C#, SQL Server 2005, SQL Stored Procedures.  • Created new winforms Open Enrollment applications in C# that populates an SQL database. Allowing employees to select benefits from a Windows app, instead of filling out paper forms and returning them. Client cut printing costs by 95% and data entry costs by 85%.  • Worked with Benefits Analysts for application requirements.  • Created documentation for end users of new applications.  • Provided status and direction on projects at weekly IT staff meetings. Education Associate