Freelance Lead Developer Freelance Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span> Freelance Lead Developer - StringFlix Work Experience Freelance Lead Developer StringFlix - New York, NY April 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  Leads all aspects of architecting and engineering of the entire video platform, including IOS mobile app and high-speed rest API. Sources and manages offshore development team and doing hands-on at the same time. at Currently focused on scaling the architecture and integrating with partner's APIs.  Tech stack: Python, NodeJS, Swift, PostGresQL, AWS, Git Senior Lead Engineer Satisfi Labs - New York, NY August 2017 to March 2019 Responsibilities:  Oversaw a big part of development, led and mentor a team of developers, architect, design and develop algorithms based on NLP to improve an intelligent engagement platform. Led the transition from old platform to a micro service-based infrastructure. Explore and define new approaches to solve complex and stubborn technical problems. Communicate technical solutions and constraints to non technical people. Communicate business context and big picture to engineers.  Tech stack: Python, NodeJS, PHP, MYSQL, AWS, Docker, Git Senior Lead Developer Addison Design - New York, NY November 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  Oversaw the engineering efforts for small to large-scale websites and applications. Provided the best clients solutions based on their requirements. Implemented quality, performance and usability across all aspects of development within the project lifecycle. Ensured timely delivery of project work according to project scope, appropriately challenge timelines, client requests, and cross-functional deliverables. Serves as liaison between business and technical aspects of projects, driving and developing technology & execution strategies for clients. As a client facing company, we use a big variety of technologies.  Tech stack: NodeJS, React, PHP, MYSQL, AWS, Git Lead Adtech Programmer Hearst Digital Media - New York, NY April 2014 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  Led a small team of engineers as well as work as a senior programmer at the same time.  Work at AdOps business environment to find and provide the best suitable solution, for thousands of campaigns across all company web properties, with millions of monthly impressions. Architect automatic tools to ensure maximum viewability for each active campaign. Work with an enormous amount of data to develop easy and convenient dashboards and exportable reports, like ARR, DRR, LRI, Pacing, etc. Help new developers to get integrated fast. Work against DFP, AdJuster, DSM to access the most current data.  Tech stack: Python, JavaScript, MYSQL, AWS, Git Senior Web developer SummitProfessionalNetworks - New York, NY February 2012 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  Design, develop and deliver CMS tools, which supports more than 10 business web applications. Work with managers to provide the best strategies and solutions for the company needs. Use the last technologies to deliver the best performance and scalability for hi-traffic web apps, based on open source solutions. Help other developers to meet deadlines and improve their knowledge.  Tech stack: PHP, JavaScript, MongoDB, AWS, Git Web developer CityMaps - New York, NY October 2012 to December 2012 Developer Oddcast - New York, NY February 2010 to May 2011 Works status: US Citizen Education BS New Bulgarian University - Sofia, BG Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/some81