Web Designer <span class="hl">Web</span> Designer Web Designer UAE Seeking a Social Media Specialist with Tools where I may be able to apply my knowledge of marketing practices as used with modern technology.    OVERVIEW:    1. Professional designer with 2.8 years of hands-on experience for UI design projects  2. Experience in Website design and deployment using HTML and CSS ( since 2011)  3. Highly skilled in overseeing daily management of social media content  4. Functional knowledge of optimising social media impact and engagement activities  5. In depth know how of working with digital marketing teams to optimise influencer programs  6. Excellent understanding of Internet and social media channels    STRENGTH:    1. Experienced Web Page Designer with extensive programming and graphic skills.  2. Proficient in Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator, HTML, CSS, Flash, Dreamweaver, FrontPage, JavaScript and various end user software and Internet access programs.  3. Can function independently on multiple projects.  4. Eager to learn and can adopt quickly any kind of working environment.  5. Enhanced and developed corporate web site in order to promote company product lines, customer support, and company visibility.  6. Excellent W3C compliant XHTML/CSS direct coding skills with focus on cross-browser compliance.  7. Have excellent Social Media Channels.    PORTFOLIO:    • Daman Tech: http://www.damantk.com/  • 6ab5baity: http://www.6ab5baity.com/  • Daman Property: http://www.damanproperty.com/  • Career Builder: http://www.careerbuilder.com/  • Call Us Cleaning (London): http://www.calluscleaning.com/  • Marudupandiyar Institutions: http://www.mpi.edu.in/  • Polytechnic College: http://www.ppc-india.org/ Work Experience Web Designer Daman Tech - Dubai September 2014 to February 2015 Company profile: The domain name first step in establishing a web site, and we provide all that is needed from the client extensions of ranges, which exceeded the 15 different extension. The definition of the domain name (Domain). A domain name is the name of your website, which gives the impression to any browser as the initial domain, therefore, should take the time to choose well.    Job Responsibility:  1. Customizing the existing website, Designing new online shopping site using Adobe Photoshop CC, Illustrator, Html, CSS.  2. Researching and recommending the web design as per the market trend.  3. Creating web templates, logos, brochures, business cards.  4. Manage social media properties such as Facebook, Twitter, Google +, Youtube. Web Designer Concentrix Technologies (P) Ltd July 2012 to May 2013 Company profile: The Company is a recognized leader in providing innovative services and technology to accelerate high-value interactions at every stage of your customer's lifecycle.    Job Responsibility:  1. Designing creative Job Portal templates and converting to Html.  2. Known for creativity, flexibility, listening skills and the ability to understand the big picture.  3. Effectively executed designs based on specified parameters.  4. Interaction with client.  5. Gathered the contents for designing the web page, created a sample layout as an infrastructure and worked as a back end developer for importing the required data.  6. Oversee all web projects and services including dynamic website design, site architecture, front-end development and programming using HTML 5, HTML(4.0), CSS(3), JavaScript and various CMS tools.  7. Responsible for server configuration and administration, acquisition of domain names, SEO, brand development and social media engagement  8. Creation of new facility websites, pages and content for various company sites  9. Design & Development of Website templates for various industries  10. Logo Design, Branding  11. Custom Flash application development  12. Web Analytics, Custom Face book Pages, Twitter  13. Experience in E- Pub.  14. Document Administrative Specialist UI Developer SIGNIN SIGN TECHNOLOGIES January 2011 to May 2012 Company Profile: The Company is USA based Company situated in Houston, TX. It's a leading global consulting and IT services company, offering a wide array of solutions customized for a range of key verticals and horizontals.    Job Responsibility:  1. Analyze and evaluate front-end design challenges and usability  2. Understanding the capabilities and constraints of the web environment  3. Excellent hand coding skills in HTML and CSS for development and prototyping  4. Created websites which includes planning, user interface, information architecture, navigation, website structure, website layout, fonts, color schemes, graphics and e-commerce facilities.  5. Developed website architecture and content development.  6. Developed and maintained intranet and Internet for Company Websites utilizing Dream weaver, HTML, CSS and Photoshop.  7. Accomplished web designer & front-end developer with extensive experience building driven websites, HTML5, CSS3 and various web scripting technologies, web standards and project management. Education Master of Computer Application in Computer Application Sun College of Engineering and Technology - Nagercoil, Tamil Nadu August 2007 to November 2010 Skills CSS. (2 years), Flash (Less than 1 year), Html (2 years), HTML 5 (1 year), Photoshop (1 year) Additional Information SKILL SET:    MS-Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint)  HTML 4.0 and HTML5  CSS 2.0 and 3.0.  Adobe Dreamweaver CS6  Adobe Photoshop CS6,  Adobe Illustrator CS3,  Adobe Creative Suite  Flash