Manager, Web Strategy Manager, <span class="hl">Web</span> Strategy Manager, Web Strategy - L.A. Clippers Los Angeles, CA Digital strategist, project manager, and team leader with a proven track record in creative problem solving. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Manager, Web Strategy LA Clippers - Los Angeles, CA October 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  Conduct daily analysis of project plan, shift priorities based on business needs in order to meet aggressive launch deadlines.    Lead ongoing cross-functional program meetings, including weekly status reports.    Lead QA and roll out process for new mobile app features on iOS and Android  digital strategist.    Build out an execute app push notification strategy to increase engagement, and drive traffic to featured content and revenue generating pages.    Liaise with Partnership, Marketing, and Sales departments to ensure digital  extensions are fully integrated into projects.    Collaborate with creative and content teams in brainstorming sessions, establish project scope, and outline web development needs.    Train and foster junior team members on project execution methods and industry best practices.    Manage department resources and workload between team members and  Project planning freelance contractors.    Recognition:  2017 - Sales and Service "Special Teamer" award for exceptional performance and proactive support around online ticket sales initiatives. Web Developer LA Clippers - Los Angeles, CA October 2014 to October 2016 Responsibilities:    Built responsive web pages to meet company and inter-department objectives.    Educated clients and internal stakeholders on how best to leverage digital assets and tools to improve user experience.    Implemented an automated approval process for website and email to ensure on brand messaging and maintain quality standards.    Established department protocol and SOP's for project-based website implementation and doubled overall efficiency    Led clients and internal teams on numerous website launches focusing on lead generation and user engagement. Web Designer Trading Financial Credit - Los Angeles, CA August 2014 to October 2014 TFC Title Loans is an auto loan agency that utilizes targeted SEO and hyper-local online marketing to drive potential customers to direct response landing pages.    Responsibilities:  Created website wireframes and high-quality design mockups.    Built and optimized responsive Wordpress templates according to SEO best practices and company objectives. Education BS in Web Design and Interactive Media The Art Institute of California - Hollywood, CA October 2010 to June 2014 Skills Project Planning (6 years), JIRA (4 years), Management (5 years), Analytics (4 years), Digital Marketing (2 years), Web Development (8 years), Graphic Design (10+ years), Project Management (5 years), Google Analytics, Digital Analytics, Adobe Analytics, Web Analytics Additional Information Currently enrolled in Master of Project Management course. PMP certification expected in September of 2019.