Freelancer - Web Developer Freelancer - <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Junior and Mid level Web Developer's Opportunities Decatur, GA Solution-driven professional excelling in highly collaborative work environment, finding solutions to challenges and focused on customer satisfaction. Proven experience developing consumer-focused web sites using HTML, CSS, jQuery, ReactJS and JavaScript. Experience building products for desktop and phone, meeting highest standards for web design, user experience, best practices, usability and speed. Responding to challenges by designing and developing solutions and building web applications aligned to customer's services. Translating solutions into code and working across many different APIs, third-party integrations and databases. Self-motivated Web Developer with high level of experience working on multiple projects. Passionate and hardworking with penchant for meeting deadlines. Interested in role with company promoting best practices and offering diverse customer projects.  Goal-oriented Web Developer with strong commitment to collaboration and solutions-oriented problem-solving. Use various web design software to develop customer-focused websites and designs. Committed to high standards of web design, user experience, usability and speed for multiple types of end-users. Successful at maintaining customer satisfaction through effective customer support. Driven Web Developer welcoming challenging projects and enjoying working with all sorts of personalities. Experienced in scripting and cybersecurity as well as design patterns. Work Experience Freelancer - Web Developer Atlanta, GA January 2017 to Present • Designed sites to be compatible with top browsers, including Firefox, Chrome and Safari  • Designed, implemented and monitored web pages and sites for continuous improvement  • Created eye catching and functional digital design concepts across various platforms to strengthen company brand and identity  • Determined coding requirements for site creation, including e-commerce capability and specialized scripts  • Used various technologies, including JavaScript to make code repairs and optimize corporate website  • Optimized Google and YouTube web assets for accuracy and performance  • Gathered and refined specifications and requirements based on technical needs  • Kept abreast of emerging technologies, software and trends and project applications  • Researched new technologies, software packages and hardware products for use in website projects Full Stack Developer AirTight Design - Atlanta, GA August 2019 to August 2019 - 08/2019  • Consulted regularly with internal customers on application development project status, new project proposals and software-related technical issues  • Researched, designed and implemented scalable applications for information identification, extraction, analysis, retrieval and indexing  • Modified existing PHP software to correct coding errors, upgrade interfaces and improve overall performance  • Collaborated with business unit team members to design new applications system to enhance client requirements for mobile computing capabilities  • Worked closely with other business analysts, development teams and infrastructure specialists to deliver high availability solutions for mission-critical applications    misterchiefexecutiveofficer@yahoo.com  470-891-1501  431 Valley Brook Crossing, Decatur, Georgia 30033    • www.github.com/doujones  • www.doujones.com Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems DeVry University - Decatur, GA Skills Optimization, Best practices Links http://www.doujones.com http://www.github.com/doujones Additional Information Skills  • Troubleshooting  • Operating Systems  • Website optimization  • Email management software  • Web development  • Programming  • Software best practices  • Web development projects  • Programming Languages