WEB DESIGNER/ DEVELOPER <span class="hl">WEB</span> DESIGNER/<span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> WEB DESIGNER/ DEVELOPER - Oasis Medical Group San Diego, CA Medical THC/CBD Activist. Work Experience WEB DESIGNER/ DEVELOPER Oasis Medical Group - Delray Beach, FL August 2018 to Present Took concepts and produced design mockups and prototypes to strengthen  designs, enhance user experiences and improve site interactions.  Spearheaded production of page content such as visuals and text copy to meet project specifications.  Tested websites and performed troubleshooting prior to deployment.  Designed and executed security measures such as firewalls and encryption.  Strengthened company brand and identity by creating distinctive website and logo.  Used programming capabilities in PHP, SQL and JavaScript and other  libraries as needed.  Collected, defined and translated user requirements into project designs and implementation plans.  Reviewed code to validate structures, assess security and verify browser,  device and operating system compatibility.  Designed, implemented and monitored web pages and sites for continuous  improvement in fast-paced environment.  Implemented Google Campaigns and SEO for various types of websites.  Created site layout and user interface using HTML and CSS practices.  Analyzed requirements and designed, developed and implemented  software applications for multiple websites.  Maintained strict budgetary and scheduling guidelines to satisfy customers with high-quality, targeted designs.  Created eye catching and functional digital design concepts across various  platforms to strengthen company brand and identity.  Researched new technologies, software packages and hardware products for use in website projects.  Represented web team at meetings with executives and discussed project  goals and milestones. OWNER HigherWeed.com - San Diego, CA March 2016 to August 2018 San Diego, CA  Recruited, hired and trained initial personnel, working to establish key  internal functions and outline scope of positions.  Maintained up-to-date administrative records to monitor operational  conditions.  Developed improved records management systems for leases and contracts to increase accuracy.  Aligned branding initiatives and sales strategies with client goals.  Applied human resources expertise to optimize hiring, training and performance.  Carefully monitored business bank account to analyze spending and earnings and observe changes in funds.  Devised, deployed and monitored processes to boost long-term business  success with optimal sales and profit levels.  Established and administered annual budget with effective controls to prevent overage and support sustainability objectives.  Applied performance data to evaluate and improve operations, targeted to current business conditions and forecasted needs.  Evaluated suppliers to assess quality, timeliness and compliance of deliveries, maintaining tight cost controls and maximizing business  operational efficiency.  Set, enforced and optimized internal policies to maintain efficiency and responsiveness to demands.  Reduced personnel turnover and promoted employee development by recruiting team-oriented candidates and implementing new training  practices.  Stayed on top of current market trends to determine optimal pricing of goods and service to capitalize on emerging opportunities.  Conducted target market research to scope out industry competition and identify advantageous trends.  Managed key accounts, including developing sales presentations and promotion initiatives to drive product sales and increase brand awareness. OWNER Okun Enterprises LLC - San Diego, CA March 2016 to December 2017 Preserved brand integrity by monitoring the consistency and quality of marketing content.  Traveled nationally and internationally to meet with customers and deliver  clear company messages.  Compiled product, market and customer data to forecast accurate sales and profit numbers.  Analyzed usage patterns to understand ways in which customers used  company products and services.  Aggressively pursued competitive accounts by differentiating the company from competitors.  Identified target product audiences and devised campaigns to match target  demographics and optimize results.  Developed and implemented favorable pricing structures balancing firm  objectives against customer targets.  Diversified and enhanced website pages and social media platforms to boost reach.  Consulted with product development teams to enhance products based on current customer data.  Reviewed the financial aspects of product development, such as budgets, expenditures and research and development appropriations.  Built new materials libraries with fresh imagery, copy and graphics to enhance marketing campaigns.  Authored crisp and interesting marketing copy to engage target consumers and drive sales.  Managed entire sales cycle across customer accounts, proposing and  closing sales to achieve total revenue growth, profit and customer  satisfaction plans.  Coordinated innovative strategies to accomplish objectives and boost  long-term profitability.  Helped incorporate product changes to drive customer engagement and firm profits.  Collaborated with developers, advertisers and production managers to market products and services.  Consulted with buying personnel to determine projected demand for products and services.  Increased credibility and client awareness by developing technical/non- technical marketing collateral and presentations, public relations  campaigns, articles and newsletters.  Analyzed business developments and monitored market trends.  Defined and tracked campaign effectiveness and adjusted strategies  accordingly.  Completed quarterly forecasting and monthly financial reviews.  Coordinated art and graphics creation for effective merchandising.  Communicated marketing teams' plans and accomplishments to verify  alignment with senior management objectives.  Created high-quality marketing strategy documentation, including product  marketing briefs, FAQs and objection handling documents.  Coordinated and participated in promotional activities and trade shows.  Developed pricing strategies while balancing firm objectives with customer  satisfaction maximization.  Created printed marketing materials that were designed to drive  campaigns.  Identified value propositions and key messages for all of company's  marketing campaigns.  Proofread all marketing collateral ahead of printing to eliminate errors.  Directed and coordinated marketing activities and policies to promote  products and services. Education J.D. in Criminal Justice Lynn University - Boca Raton, FL 2015 Skills Digital marketing, Internet marketing, Seo, Product development, Marketing, Contract management, Data analysis, Business development, Design patterns, Data collection, Security, Technical support, Strategic planning, Financial management, Collection, Operations, Operations management, Scheduling, Optimization, Training Links http://okunwebmarketing.com http://okunmedical.com http://higherweed.com Additional Information SKILLS Strategic planning Web development projects  Business development Technical analysis  Data collection and analysis Software testing  Operations management Website optimization  Consulting Design patterns and principles  Contract Management Programming  Project management Ad development  Staff management Keyword optimization  Negotiation Redirect monitoring  Recruitment Data analysis  Employee scheduling Hardware and software installation  Effective leader Operating Systems  Product development Security issues troubleshooting  Staff training/development User technical support  Financial management Web content  Business administration Digital marketing  Network development and Internet marketing  administration SEO practices  Web user interfaces