Front End Web Developer Front End <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Web Developer Sterling Heights, MI • 3 Years of experience working in Corporate environment as front-end developer in Angular JS. Strong technical skills in complex website development including web-based application.  • Experience in system analysis, design, workflow architecture, development, testing and maintenance of web-based application and single page application.  • Excellent working knowledge and thorough exposure on cross browser / cross device compatibility, with emphasis on Responsive Design principles and Interactive Web Design from a simple transition effect to parallax scrolling, rich media presentations.  • Ability to create beautiful web applications writing notch HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery code and Angular JS.  • Extensive experience in UI web applications using HTML 5, CSS3, CSS Grid flexbox JavaScript, JSON, Twitter Bootstrap, Angular JS, Angular JS material, Ionic 1.  • Experienced in designing wireframes, prototypes, information architecture, navigation, visual elements and interface based on usability principles.  • Good experience in developing the single page Applications using Angular JS.  • Experience in implementing Auto Complete/Auto Suggest functionality using jQuery, JavaScript, AngularJS, Web API calls and JSON.  • Working experience on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Tale, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behavior in CSS.  • Proficiency in building responsive and mobile optimized websites using Bootstrap.  • Good understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and SEO / Web standards.  • Familiar version control GIT  • Worked extensively in Agile Development process.  • Good understanding of Model View Controller MVC, MVVM, and MVP design patterns.  • Expertise in client interaction, understanding business applications, data flow & relations. Work Experience Front End Web Developer Together Health Network, Southfield January 2017 to June 2019 Together Health Network connects physicians and providers across the state, positioning them to move into new value-based contracts. We enable, facilitate, and accelerate their efforts to improve health and care by developing relationships that provide patient-centred care.    Responsibilities:    • Built Search Engine with Doctor information, Profile Page, in AngularJS and location of the office using Google Map.  • Creating paper prototypes or wire frames per the requirements presented by Leadership  • Conducting design sessions to discuss about the design ideas with team.  • Creating page mock ups using Adobe XD, Photoshop CC.  • Redesigning an application look and feel and developing the new version.  • Work in an Agile Environment with Daily Stand ups  • Jira Project Management tool used for project tracking  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like  • HTML, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Developed single page applications using AngularJS, Angular-Bootstrap UI, AngularJS Material  • Written custom directives, filters in AngularJS  • Implemented AngularJS Routers for page routing and generated dynamic class for each router to avoid CSS Conflict.  • Worked on application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, AngularJS.  • Sprint planning and agile updates on Jira.  • Used GitHub as Git repository service and version control.  • Integrating external scripts and styles with AngularJS based on the requirements.  • Developed File Manager using external plugin ng-file-upload in AngularJS  • Developed Member Dashboard using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript for SPA.  • Developed Pages based on the Adobe XD mock-ups using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap3, Angular.js  • Development of Responsive Pages using Bootstrap, CSS Grid, Flexbox and Media Queries.  • Well Understanding and debugging of Cross Browser Compatibility issues.  • Developed Overlays, shapes, grid using CSS Techniques  • Development of individual pages for mobile and Desktop devices using external plugin ngIsMobile in AngularJS. Supporting Lead Project Manager with daily activities.    Freelancing Projects:  Ten Thirty-One Software (TTO), Tawas City, MI - https://newhope.praiseteamhub.com/#/    • Design and Developed SPA using AngularJS.  • Used ngoauth to connect to create authentication for users  • Developed HTML prototypes and UI deliverables, such as wireframe, flowcharts, screen mock-ups, and interface design specification.  • Developed a theme colour option for users to select their own theme based of their preference.  • Dynamic angular ng-chart to display statistic of user preference  • Extensive worked on RESTfull Web services  • Build AngularJS router to navigate to different page  • Developed the ng-include methodology to copy one html element to another router in AngularJS.  • Developed certain features of the application functionality.  • Performed Client-Side validation using JavaScript.    Dental Care Mobile, South Field, MI- http://dentalcaremobilellc.com/  • Design Developed and launched the responsive website and e-commerce sites of client.  • Set up Web Hosting, server mail used File Zilla (FTP) to upload and to connect MySQL database inside cPanel  • Designed and build the responsive website using HTML, CSS and PHP.  • Mock up and Prototype was made using Adobe XD for the Client approval Design  • Created browser and platform compatible with CSS codes    Gayatri Pariwar, Western Ontario, Canada-http://gpwo.org/index.html  • Created, Designed, and implemented a religious website that is utilize by priest, followers, and supports many national education programs  • Developing various CMS (Content Management System) bases websites while maintaining the corresponding.  • Created contact form using HTML PHP.  • Created site Mock up using Adobe Photoshop and XD  • Mailchimp technology to save the external users email and to advertise the upcoming events    Maya Mitchell, South Field, MI- http://mayamitchell1.com/  • Design and developed a small business website for a local hair salon in Southfield, Michigan  • Communicated and provides feedback to clients need and requirements.  • The site was created using HTML, CSS and jQuery library  • Utilized and customized Facebook, Twitter, Instagram to increasing client products and services exposure.    LinkedIn Profile: https://www.linkedin.com/in/priyank-patel-56b724187/ Education Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science Wayne State University June 2020 Skills Angularjs, Front End, Javascript, UI, User Interface, Bootstrap, Front-End, HTML5, Jquery, React