Web and Application Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> and Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web and Application Developer - Car Spa Orlando, FL Work Experience Web and Application Developer Car Spa - Orlando, FL January 2017 to Present Developed desktop applications using the Java programming language according to the system requirements and based on use case document and design specifications. Debugged and updated these applications. Designed databases and connected them to work with the applications. Developed JavaScript functions and used many client-side JS libraries such as JQUERY and worked with MySQL database connectivity for website interactivity. Implemented SQL queries and stored procedures Starting to learn about react JS and Agular JS to implement one of them. Application Developer Intern Walt Disney World Resorts - Orlando, FL January 2013 to May 2013 Participated in all the phases of the software development lifecycle (design, code and test). Debugged applications using Eclipse EE for JAVA and SQL database. Proposed to edit code for performance or readability since I saw ways to improve it. Was in charge on a project to make one of the applications compatible with JAWS so that disable people could use the software. Supported application releases and development activities following the Scrum and Agile methodology. Supported the development of software development and technical documentation.    Projects, Orlando, FL - Freelance & School projects.  Developed an augmented reality tower defense game for iOS with a team of Six using the LAMP stack (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP) followed a professional process development life cycle and adopted the Agile methodology. Developed a 3D shooting game, pong game, 3D Pac-Man and others using JS and the Three JS library. Completed a public library application following the business rules that would check in and out the books on an inventory from subscribed users. Used Visual Studio (C#) connected to (MSSQL) creating queries and store procedures. Designed the user interface. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science University of Central Florida - Orlando, FL July 2012 to August 2018 Associate's in Arts degree Valencia College - Orlando, FL July 2010 to July 2012 Skills Database, Database design, Mysql, Sql, Eclipse, Java, Visual studio, C#, C++, Object oriented, Object oriented programming, Php, Linux, Problem solving, Time management, Wordpress, Javascript, Front End, HTML5, Jquery, HTML, Angularjs Links https://github.com/carspaorlando http://www.linkedin.com/in/jose-ghersy Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Object oriented programming  Agile  Database Design and Implementation  Debugging  Technical writing  Problem Solving  Procedural Programming  Testing    TOOLS & Languages  Eclipse (Java, SQL)  Visual Studio (C#, C++)  WordPress (Java script, PHP)  Linux (c)  C-Panel (MySQL)  GitHub    SOFT SKILLS  Detail-focused  Teamwork and Cooperation  Organization  Creativity  Time management/Multi-tasking