ServiceNow Developer ServiceNow <span class="hl">Developer</span> ServiceNow Developer - Intel Corporation Idaho, TN • Over 8+ years of Experience in Service-Now platform as both Developer and Administrator.  • Functional knowledge and implementation experience of IT Service Management (ITSM) frameworks and demonstrated project management skills and experience working directly with Customers and Clients.  • Experienced in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), quality management systems and project life cycle processes.  • In-depth knowledge of the technical implementation of, Incident Management, Problem Management, Change Management, Asset Management, Configuration Management, Project Portfolio Management, Service Catalog, Reporting, Discovery and Integrations.  • Good understanding of IT Help Desk and service management along with good understanding of the ITIL.  • Worked with Record Producers, Order Guides, Work Flows and Orchestration in Service Catalog Management.  • Extensive experience in working with User Management including Users, Groups, Roles and Access Control Lists (ACL).  • Developed Business Rules, Client Scripts, Catalog Client Scripts, UI actions and UI Policies.  • Knowledge on Merging Update sets and Retrieving Completed Update Sets using Update Sources.  • Excellent knowledge in Configuring Email Notifications and Scripting Inbound Email actions.  • Implemented UAT activities in coordination with business units and prepared and maintained process and system-based documentation.  • Prepared workflows and web prototypes for multiple technical solutions.  • Worked on Table API to perform CRUD operations on existing tables.  • Performed several Integrations with LDAP, SSO, JIRA POC, and Remedy.  • Strong understanding of cloud technologies, web applications, networks, protocols and email (SMTP, POP3).  • Possess extensive experience in ServiceNow Reporting module.  • Extensive knowledge of Front End Technologies: JSP, HTML, JSTL, JQuery, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON, AJAX, Angular JS and CSS, XML.  • Good understanding of programming language fundamentals and Ability to learn code and debug programming languages quickly.  • An effective communicator with excellent relationship building & interpersonal skills.  • Strong Problem solving & organizational abilities. Good in leading, mentoring, coaching, and motivating team to deliver the best result. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ServiceNow Developer Intel Corporation - Hillsboro, OR March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked on Incident Management, Problem Management, Change Management, HR, Facilities and Service Catalog modules.  • Responsible for maintaining the release documents to move the update sets between different instances.  • Involved in creating/modifying groups and maintaining the groups.  • Developed preparation of systems, test criteria and control for upgrades, error correction and new functionalities.  • Hands on experience with Client Scripts/Business Rules/Scheduled Jobs for Incident analysis.  • Experienced with UI Actions/ UI Policy/ Access Control Lists /Email Notifications for Incident analysis.  • Regular interaction with the Process Owners and other Support teams for Incident resolution within agreed SLA.  • Regularly monitored the instances administration to make sure that all the instances are in sync with each other.  • Administered HI Service-Now account for scheduling Cloning activities which include post cloning and pre-cloning activities and applying patches for the Service-Now instances.  • Raising ticket with Vendor while facing major issues like instance down and Performance issues.  • Experienced in scheduling daily calls and generating Reports regarding various incidents resolved.  • Developed and improved user systems, procedures and prepared system documentation.  • Assisted and provided guidance during the implementation of Service Watch and additional Service-Now modules.  • First point analysis on tickets and assigned them in line based on the scope.  • Actively involved in configuring and developing the Service Catalog items and categories based on requirement.  • Designed email templates by using HTML and Jelly scripting and used them in notifications.  • Experience in workflow editor to design workflow for various modules, triggering various events, creating and publishing workflows.  • Worked on configuring the Discovery Schedules and sessions.  • Experienced in integrating with the MID Server for ensuring a secured connectivity.  • Configured and developed Reports and Dashboard.  • Customer Complaints Response & Resolution.    Environment: Service-Now(Jakarta), Incident Management, Problem Management, Change Management, Service Catalog Management. Senior ServiceNow Developer T. Rowe price, Maryland, MD August 2016 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Sr. Developer for Service Catalog, rating systems, Service Requests configurations, AD Integration using SAML, Integration of federated CMDB through ServiceNow Mid-Server technologies, Incident Management, Problem Management, Knowledge Management and Change Management workflows and respective customizations  • Implemented Data Sources and created transformation maps to import the data into the ServiceNow from different data sources.  • Used SOAP and REST Web services for integrating Different Instances.  • Created Schedule Jobs to run scripts, to import data by running Scheduled transform map.  • Created scripts like Client Scripts, Business rules, Script Includes, UI scripts and UI Policies to customize the instance as per Business needs.  • Responsible for access control, security, minor enhancements such as form or workflow editing, and UAT/Regression testing of any development.  • Developed UI Appearance for Service Catalog Requests.  • Used Glide Scripting for creating UI Action and Business rules.  • Created GROUPS for set of users and used them for approval, assignment, receiving notifications.  • Used Access Control Rules for securing and providing the right access to right person/role.  • Used Update Sets for moving group of customizations from one instance to another.  • Worked on CMDB and Asset management. Performed Data migration to import data from other  Applications and external databases.  • Used SCRUM methodology for the development and SDLC module for defect tracking.  • Responsible for Helsinki Upgradation in ServiceNow and also involved in the analysis of the impact on the existing customization after Helsinki up gradation.  • Investigate performance issues, learn troubleshooting tools, and use system logs to find issues.  • Creates Workflow activities and approvals. Implement new workflows that use a variety of activities to understand how records are generated from workflows.  • Performed updates to existing modules and workflows.  • Worked on End to End implementation of CMDB module using Discovery tool in ServiceNow.  • Implemented Discovery, Orchestration, CMDB and Asset Management for various customer.  • Configuration of Email Notification and Alerts to notify users about specific activities in the system  • Involved in development of Content Management system.  • Supported the team while upgrading Service Now from Fuji to Helsinki  • Build reports, gauges, and home pages.  • Implemented out of the box Performance Analytics module for ServiceNow Helsinki.  • Developed custom score cards, dashboards.  • Customized widgets to view and maintain the widgets.  • Developed various Scorecards, break downs, data collectors and developed custom ACL's for different roles in performance analytics.  • Configured formula indicators, thresholds, bucket groups, and target colored schemas.  • Experience on data upload and configuration in CMDB and other ITSM modules.  • Develop reports, database views and develop some scheduled jobs needed for reports as per user requirement  • Manages data with Tables, the CMDB, Import Sets, and Update Sets.  • Create, monitor, modify, and publish Service catalog workflows with approvals.  • Development of requirement integration components (SSO, LDAP, SOAP).  • Integrated Service Now with a third party to store all the credentials and to avoid breaching up of credentials. ServiceNow Developer Infinite Computer Solutions - Rockville, MD May 2015 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Interacted with business community and gathered requirements based on changing needs and also experienced in documenting user and process requests.  • Configured custom applications and modules as per requirements.  • Upgraded from Geneva to Helsinki.  • Developed and configured Business Rules, Script Includes, UI Policies, Catalog Client Scripts and Client Scripts, etc., using JavaScript coding for Customizing different requirements in the Helsinki version.  • Extensively used Glide Ajax in Client Scripts to call Server-Side Script Includes.  • Created Record Producers to create incidents for emergency Service requests and creation of Change requests.  • Responsible for the implementation of ServiceNow ITSM suite, Discovery, CMDB, Event Management, Service Watch/Service Mapping.  • Worked on Orchestration to automate the top and frequently used service requests.  • Created custom Tables, Fields and configured field level, table level Access Controls.  • Configured Data Sources, Import Sets, Transform Maps, performed Data migration to import data from other applications and external databases.  • Designed and modified workflows, SLAs, OLAs, notifications and reports based on the requirement.  • Configuration of Email Notification and Alerts to notify users about specific activities in the system using events.  • Captured all the Technical Components in the Update sets and migrated the changes to QA, Production instances.  • Worked closely with the Data Architect for data integrations and migration of data. Monitored and implemented changes to data by using Data Manipulation techniques to insert, update and delete the data within the database.  • Additional experience with Performance Analytics module and reporting for the same.  • Built reports, gauges, and home pages for ITIL users and end users.  • Involved in implementing the Project Portfolio Management Module and also HR Case Management.  • Integrated ServiceNow with LDAP for secured authentication and external SOAP and REST based web services.  • Followed the SDLC process to develop and deploy the code in development to production environments.  • Experience working under stress and delivering a quality product within the deadlines in heavy Agile Environment.  • Actively involved in developing new Service Catalog items on the Service Portal and customized widgets based on the requirement.  • Experience in troubleshooting and fixing bugs in modules like incident, problem and change.  • Established and maintained effective communications with customers and vendors about services.  • Experience in working with the internal Service Portal for accessing all the business services by using Content Management Application in ServiceNow.  • Performed Self/Peer Reviews after Implementation to maintain Quality and Reliability in the code.  • Experience in use case analysis, requirement analysis and business process analysis.  • Prepared Deployment checklist and Test case document preparation for each deployment.    Environment: Service-Now(Geneva & Helsinki), Asset Management, Incident Management, Change Management, Problem Management, CMDB, HTML, Java script, MS SQL server. ServiceNow Integrations Specialist Tieto - Pune, Maharashtra May 2013 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked on end to end implementation of CTI Integrations, Supported the team with the work flow of the integrations.  • Designed and delivered technical methodologies around the ServiceNow platform.  • Analyze requirements, determine technical approach technical design  • Identified and designed repeatable solutions utilizing Autodesk technologies, recommend architectural patterns, application frameworks standards for solutions development  • Gathered requirement from stake holders for attributes needed to develop Service Catalog items.  • Worked with clients to assess current state processes and tools, defined ServiceNow requirements and developed and configured the ServiceNow platform  • Worked on CMDB and Asset management. Performed Data migration to import data from other applications and external databases.  • Worked on various modules of Service Now like Incident management, change management, and Problem management, Service Catalog, User Administration, Reporting and Discovery.  • Created various front end forms, and associated Client Scripts, UI policies, including advanced customizations that require modification of UI Pages/Macros.  • Designed Workflows, along with standard Workflow templates which can be reused.  • Supported the team responsible for the implementation and administration of the ServiceNow installation, including managing system configurations, gathered and documented user and process requirements, developed workflow customizations, and performed quality assurance testing and user acceptance testing.  • Strong knowledge of the Server side scripting Business rules and Script Includes.  • Worked with Apache Jelly to create various kinds of UI pages and Macro templates.  • Implemented JDBC Export to execute custom SQL queries in the target database based on requirement.  • Created Data Sources from various external applications, scripts to parse incoming data and transform into ServiceNow.  • Developed reports as per requirements from management.  • Documented all implementations and best practices defined within team.  • Trained Service Desk team and organized meetings to review content and testing efforts for testing in UAT for quarterly releases.  • Currently working to develop new service catalog items and fix bugs in incident, problem and change management. Java Web Developer GOYO Technologies Pvt. Ltd - Ahmedabad, Gujarat March 2012 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Interacting with Business users, gathering and analyzing requirements and Involved in understanding the Requirements of the end Users/Business Analysts and Developed Strategies for ETL processes.  • Involved in database designing by creating database objects such as Tables, Views, and Indexes. And provided technical solutions in the form of MDD (Minor Development Document) for the Process Change Requests from Business.  • Using DAO patterns to interface with Database and DTOs for data transfer between the integration tier and business tier.  • Performed client side validation using Struts Validation Framework.  • Developed Struts Action Forms, Action classes and templates and performed action mapping in struts-config.xml.  • Developed DAO classes for the persistent layer.  • Used Java Mail to send mails to the user when it is appropriate.  • Responsible for development of Web Services. ServiceNow Administrator Impetus Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2010 to August 2012 Responsibilities:  • Implementing user Roles and Group policies on the Utility request Application and mitigating security concerns.  • Administration of instances including version updates and new releases, testing, documentation, analysis and implementation of the release across TEST and PROD regions  • Develop, design, configure and rollout of new application modules, workflows, catalog requests, scripts, user interface and other platform component.  • Perform releases as needed via update sets or imports.  • Facilitate and support the rollout of new application and enhancements within ServiceNow.  • Load, transform and maintain data interfaces between ServiceNow and other systems.  • Created Data Sources from various external applications, scripts to parse incoming data and transform into ServiceNow.  • Experienced in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), quality management systems and project life cycle processes.  • Understanding of programming language fundamentals and formats.  • Experience in Installation and Configuration of different modules of ServiceNow Education Bachelor's Skills Ms access, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    ITSM tools ServiceNow, BMC Remedy.  Programming languages Technologies Ajax, JQuery, SOAP, REST, XML, HTML5, CSS, Javascript, JSON, Angular JS.  Software Methodologies SDLC, Waterfall, Agile, Scrum.    Databases Oracle 9i/10g, MS SQL, PL/SQL, MS Access, MySQL.  Tools and Packages MS Office, Dreamweaver.