Email Marketing Specialist Email Marketing Specialist Email Marketing Specialist Winnetka, CA Email Marketing Specialist with an interest in building the most effective digital solutions. For over two years, I've been helping businesses market themselves.    Currently, I customize digital content for Quantum Solutions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Email Marketing Specialist Quantum Solutions - Calabasas, CA May 2016 to Present • Manage and track daily transaction and promotional email campaigns.  • Measure all promotional campaigns through statistical and data reports.  • Construct mobile-optimized HTML emails according to in-house specs.  • Develop Email templates for market niche.  • Issue multi-browser testing with Litmus or Email on Acid.  • Collaborate with departments for best resolutions to development issues in- person or Slack. Web Developer tonyluciowebsite.com December 2015 to May 2016 Greater Los Angeles Area  • Utilized Adobe Photoshop to convert PSD's to live site.  • Launched a professional website from scratch and made it interactive with JavaScript, jQuery and API's.  • Edited and updated existing websites and dynamic web applications.  • Built web apps with the command line, PHP, Git, and GitHub. Front End Web Developer UpSellit - Westlake Village, CA November 2015 to January 2016 • Created remarketing solutions for e-commerce clients.  • Constructed HTML emails in conjunction with Sugar CRM, JavaScript, and Client specifications.  • Issued multi-browser testing with Litmus.  • Assisted in launching content to client sites for A-B testing and issued static or dynamic code for campaigns.  • Implemented GitHub email templates to client campaigns  • Collaborated with Sales or Dev team for best resolutions to front-end issues via Gmail, Box, and Slack. Website Specialist iACT - Redondo Beach, CA June 2015 to September 2015 • Interned with team to develop web-based elements for campaigns and projects including webpages, blogs, social media aspects via WordPress.  • Attended project and brainstorming meetings as needed (sometimes virtual). Clerk The Lanier Law Firm - Century City, CA 2011 to 2014 • Provided tech support for Windows and Mac users.  • Assisted IT Department with troubleshooting Network Issues.  • Troubleshot PC & printer equipment.  • Maintained stock of replacement peripheral hardware.  • Opened, sorted, and routed incoming / outgoing mail.  • Managed and updated office records using Microsoft Office Suite. Education Bachelor's in Sociology California State University - Fullerton, CA 2014 to 2017 Skills CSS (3 years), HTML (3 years), Marketing (3 years), Photoshop (3 years), Email Marketing (3 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/anthonylucio01/ http://tonyluciowebsite.com