Senior iOS Developer Senior iOS <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior iOS Developer - Tiempo Development Rochester, MN • 7+ years of experience in developing and designing User Interface applications, integrated with various database and client-server-based applications in iPad/iPhone application development using Objective-C, Cocoa touch frameworks, core data, core animation custom control.  • Adverse knowledge in all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC) process, which addresses requirement analysis, implementation cycle, designing, debugging, bug fixing and maintenance on the software.  • Fully expertise in iOS SDK, Objective-C, X-code and its framework.  • Strong expertise in swift code.  • Developing and publishing commercial iPhone/iPad applications.  • Clear knowledge on storyboard, user defaults, Map-Kit, Core Data, Multithreading, UI alert, Delegates/ Protocol and categories.  • Good knowledge of instruments for CPU profiling, memory mapping and management.  • Experienced in utilization of iOS camera, Video and audio capture frameworks.  • Complete knowledge in testing App on device using development profile.  • Experienced in extracting data from iPhone /iPad device database using core data.  • Experienced in designing and developing utility and enterprise-based application using core data for iPhone/iPad to enhance memory overhead management of the app, improve and increase responsiveness.  • Fully worked on user interface view layer of iOS applications using UI Navigation Controller, UI Tab Bar Controller, UI Table View Controller and particularly Split View Controller and Popover controller of iPad.  • Experienced working with various data parsing and dynamical display on iPad/iPhone using XML and JSON.  • Extensive working knowledge in Operating systems like Windows XP, Windows 7, Windows 2003 Enterprise/Server Edition, windows 8, windows 8.1, windows 10, Linux, Mac OS Yosemite, Mac OS X.  • Excellent verbal, communication, organizational skills, keen attention to client detail and ability to meet their needs.  • Multithreading applications using iOS GCD blocks, NS Operation Queue.  • Expert in finding bugs and fixing the crashing bugs.  • Extensive knowledge in In-app purchase, remote and local push notifications.  • Worked with QA leads, graphic design leads, project managers to effectively develop applications.  • Capable of doing multitasking at work and taking up challenges, also energetic and passionate of learning new concepts, methods and technologies and keep myself updated. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior iOS Developer Tiempo Development - Los Angeles, CA November 2017 to Present Description: App created from scratch, managing a team, creating architecture, estimation time for each module, multiples teams from multiples countries. Angelika Films Center is an iOS mobile app designed for tickets purchase, to see the different billboard.    Responsibilities:  • Worked extensively with Swift 3, Objective C and Cocoa frameworks  • Experience implementing native and 3th Party Frameworks.  • iOS application and server API development from scratch  • Working with Payment API of different Payment Systems  • Involved in iOS applications build using Xcode, iOS SDK, Cocoa Touch, Objective-C  • Used MVC design pattern as core architectural design.  • Experience with multithreading applications using GDC and NSOperations  • Experience ARC memory management in iOS together with XCTest and instruments to ensure there are no regressions or memory leaks.  • Experience in UI dynamic design using Auto-layouts and size classes.  • Created UI designs using auto layout in Storyboard.  • Designing screens using Adobe Illustrator.  • Designing graphic user interfaces, customization of input controls.  • Experienced with RESTful web service consumption with JSON parsing.  • Experience working with data persistence using CoreData, SQLite.  • Worked with UIAction Sheets, custom Date Pickers and Date formatters.  • Making network calls to the server using NSURL Connection and using the NSXML Parser for the data parsing.  • Highly expertise in integrating Push Notifications and Network Connectivity.  • Deployed Terminal utilization for SQLite database decryption and modifications.  • Worked on API Mapping using postman as REST Client.    Environments: iOS, Mac OS, Objective C, Xcode, Cocoa Touch, Cocoa framework, JavaScript, JQuery, Core Location, MVC, XCTest, GUI, RESTful web service, JSON, CoreData, SQLite, Jenkins, sourcetree, cornerstone, Jira, Confluence, postman and AV Foundation. iOS Developer Mayo Clinic - Rochester, MN September 2016 to October 2017 Description: The Mayo Clinic Care Network (MCCN) Provider app, which is available exclusively to MCCN physicians and physician extenders, enables to view clinical data for patients who have been referred to Mayo Clinic for care. The MCCN Provider app is an easy-to-use tool for navigating the following information like patient facts, clinical documents, images, lab results, medications, vital signs, allergies, immunizations, scheduled appointments. To access the MCCN Provider app, users must log in with the User ID and Password they use to access Mayo's Online Services Portal for Referring Physicians (OSRP).    Responsibilities:  • Developed application using storyboard and UI controller.  • Developed full code for iPhone and iPad.  • Tested with iPhone & iPad simulator and iPhone & iPad device.  • Developed with Cocoa touch framework on UI-Kit.  • Complete maintenance on application memory management.  • Push notifications and live updates about the event is implemented.  • Actively involved in all the phases of the design and analysis of customer specialization, development and customization of the application.  • Resolved bandwidth, memory and performance issues.  • Fixed bugs from the previous project of the client need.    Environment: iOS 9, iPhone SDK, iPhone and iPad simulator, X-code, Objective-C, UI-Kit, Mac OS X (El Captain). iOS Developer Little Fuse - Chicago, IL August 2015 to August 2016 Description: Little fuse business units, would like to start developing a BU specific mobile apps strategy, in conjunction with overall Mobile Strategy for Littelfuse. The initial mobile app was designed for working with business to distribute or access the Products catalog for each BU via mobile devices. The ESBU is prioritized to be the first BU to distribute mobile catalogs for this pilot.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented using iPhone SDK, XCode, Objective-C, OS-X and Cocoa touch frameworks.  • Designed in UI Controller, UI Navigation controller.  • Designed core data for storage of user data.  • Created various table views, customized views and pop overs.  • Developed Delegates for updating the model information.  • Implemented the memory mapping, memory management and app performance.  • Designed and defined the story boards for app content, flow, view control.  • Supported QA with bug fixes, test case creation and triage meetings.  • Worked as part of dynamic team through the vigorous development process.  • Developed quality code in Objective-C and swift to fulfill client requirement.    Environment: iOS SDK 7 and 8, objective C, iPhone/iPad iOS 9, Mac OS X. Web/iOS Application Developer Capital One Bank - Richmond, VA May 2014 to July 2015 Description: Capital One's Credit Wise App can give updates of credit score to the customers. Added features of Credit Simulator gives the application users the best possible experience while keeping track of their credit score.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in getting requirement from business development, sales and engineering team.  • Propose mobile friendly approaches and design to develop the app.  • Integration with the web service team to explain the interface required and discussion for any changes.  • Helped developed and maintain application using Xcode 6.0 and iOS 8.0.  • Responsible for implementing weather feature, which allows customers to view current weather conditions, view or create their custom reports, Custom graphs/charts.  • Created View Controllers both programmatically and through Interface Builder  • Created custom overlays over map view for tropical storm, hurricane approach points.  • Followed apple UI guidelines throughout the project.  • Core data used to persistent the data, used versioning for core data changes.  • REST and SOAP used to transact the data between app and server.  • Used localities to analyze the usage of each functionality and market analysis.  • Extensively used test flight for external testing.    Environment: Objective C, XML, Xcode 4.2/5.0/6.0/7.0, Auto layout, Core data, SQLite Manager. SOAP, REST, Test flight, Localities, Corner stone, SVN, Clear case, PREP, GEO Server. Mobile Application Developer JP Morgan Chase - Columbus, OH March 2013 to April 2014 Description: JPMorgan Chase & Co. is an American multinational investment bank and financial services company headquartered in New York City. JPMorgan Chase is the largest bank in the United States and is ranked by S&P Global as the sixth largest bank in the world by total assets as of 2018, to the amount of $2.535 trillion.    Responsibilities:  • Designed User Interface (UI) for expense calculations.  • Developing class, methods for expenses calculations  • Worked with OOPS, for developing the mobile and PC application.  • C++ code for user Registration, Account management.  • Writing handlers to manage financial tools, data management tool.  • Coordinated with team people for development of financial applications.  • User help guidelines for easy access of the application - help tutorial in the mobile application.  • Fixing bugs in the test phase.    Environment: IPhone SDK, XCode 5.1.1, iOS SDK 5 and Objective-C, Cocoa Touch and Instruments. Software Engineer Heartland Payment Systems Inc - Plano, TX November 2011 to February 2013 Description: Heartland Payment Systems, Inc. was a Fortune 1000 U.S.-based payment processing and technology provider. Founded in 1997, Heartland Payment Systems' last headquarters were in Princeton, NJ before it was bought by Global Payments.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with OOPS concepts and developed the mobile and PC application.  • Designed User Interface (UI) for monitoring control and operations.  • Developing object classes, control objects, data storage unit control.  • Writing C code for basic operations, file management operations.  • C++ code for user registration and required controls for industrial applications.  • Writing handlers for calculating medical based records, age calculations, medical data center database.  • Fixing bugs in the test phase.    Environment: Visual basic (graphical output), C, C++, medical and industrial machine products, wireless products, Touch and control Instruments. Education Bachelor's Skills Ios, Ipad, Iphone, Objective-c, Xcode