Lead Developer Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Developer - Brand Journalists White House, TN 10+ years programming and web based application development experience. My primary objective is to obtain a creative and challenging position that enables me to continue to gain commercial experience and improve my web development and design skills that I have achieved as a part of my degree course and work experience. Work Experience Lead Developer Brand Journalists - Nashville, TN February 2019 to Present Brand Journalists is a franchise lead generation firm, providing franchise campaigns and recruitment websites for over 140 franchise brands. Responsible for the full aspect of web development and deployment, maintaining existing assets as well as the creation of new products and services. CMS management, migration, custom software development, web design and deployment practices. DevOps Engineer/Interactive Developer GS&F - Nashville, TN August 2016 to February 2019 GS&F is a fully integrated Nashville ad agency. Responsible for building web based applications and maintaining existing assets and applications. Duties included monitoring and updating core resources through AWS cloud services (EC2, Route53, S3), initiating core server software updates as well as Wordpress plugins. Wordpress plugin creation for customized solutions to client's requests. Managed workflow of code deployment and development cycles to production servers. Web Developer DVL Seigenthaler - Nashville, TN June 2014 to August 2016 DVL Seigenthaler is an award-winning communications agency in Nashville, TN. Nashville Business Journal ranked #1 PR Company. Responsible for building back-end services for web based applications, MySQL database management, website maintenance and development environment systems. Website and database backups and security for websites with monitoring and reporting applications. Authored several PHP/MySQL applications for unique client requests and requirements. PHP Developer DFS Software Solutions - Hermitage, TN February 2013 to May 2014 Web Developer DirecTV - Nashville, TN March 2011 to February 2013 PHP Development of a custom built software, with MYSQL database to provide  business management solutions for retailers of DirecTV services and installations.  NASBA - Nashville, TN  Web Developer March 2011 - February 2013    The National Association of State Boards of Accountancy (NASBA) is an association dedicated to serving the 55 state boards of accountancy. These are the boards that regulate the accountancy profession in the United States of America.    Provided comprehensive IT solutions and web applications to the NASBA business teams in a team environment. Create and maintain e-commerce solutions including integrating Adobe Content Server applications for sales of digital content and distribution of e-Book products. Customized Zen-Cart solutions for sales and product management of certifications and other CPA related products. Education Associate Skills DOCKER, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, PHP, Front End, HTML5, Wordpress Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/scfleming https://github.com/hawkwynd Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS  • Proficient working knowledge of PHP, MySQL, XML, JavaScript, and HTML.  • Working knowledge and experience of the SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), including analysis, design, code, and testing of web applications and deployment.    SOFTWARE EXPERIENCE  • Version Control: GIT  • Docker, Sequel Pro, Postman, Photoshop CC  • Databases: MySQL, PhpMyAdmin, MongoDB  • Platforms: Apache, Nginx, MySQL, Ubuntu, Amazon EC2-linux, Route 53, etc.  • ExpressionEngine, Wordpress, Drupal, Zen-Cart, ModX    Other application experience  • PHP Frameworks: Zend Framework, CodeIgniter, CakePHP  • Wordpress (PHP) applications in FASTCGI on IIS (Rackspace)  • Limited exposure to Windows ASP applications with MS SQL on IIS  • AWS Cloud Practitioner services - EC2, Route53, WorkMail, EFS