DC IT Support Specialist DC IT Support Specialist IT Infrastructure & Support Specialist Royal Palm Beach, FL Experience with Cisco based enterprise IT systems (routing/switching, wireless, VoIP), Microsoft Active Directory and Windows Servers (2012 & 2016), and both Windows & Apple based Desktop Support – including proficiency with Microsoft Active Directory, SCCM, and PowerShell. Has designed and managed Web, Database (SQL & NoSQL), Virtualized (VMWare/Hyper-V), and application servers in “the cloud” (AWS, Rackspace, OpenStack), with focus on scaling for optimal performance, security, and stability. Strong aptitude towards learning new technologies and has excellent communication skills. Currently taking courses in Network Infrastructure with plans to acquire CCNA Routing & Switching Certification, and interested in both On-Site and Cloud Infrastructure. Work Experience DC IT Support Specialist Walgreens - Jupiter, FL October 2017 to Present ? Oversee and support the day to day operations of a Distribution Center  ? End User IT Support (Windows 7/10)  ? Support remote Corporate IT Engineers on site and assist with server / system management, monitoring, and upgrades.  ? Interact daily with IBM iSeries/AS400, Microsoft Active Directory, Microsoft SCCM, PowerShell, Windows Server 2013 & 2016 VMware vSphere/ESXi, Windows 7 & 10, Linux/Unix Servers (IBM AIX), Cisco Networking & VoIP Equipment. Magento Developer Petrol Advertising - Burbank, CA March 2016 to May 2016 ? This was a contract position to help build an ecommerce platform using Magento. Worked with front-end developers to customize the system per the client’s desires and needs. Responsibilities included integration of plugins to work with client’s existing systems, development of custom modules, and design of server infrastructure to handle current traffic and future traffic goals. IT & Infrastructure Support Services Global Entertainment, Inc - Los Angeles, CA August 2014 to May 2015 ? An existing European-based corporation opened an office in Los Angeles, and I was the only permanent IT tech in this new office. My primary responsibility was to assist the Infrastructure team with the deployment of the office's Cisco based network (wired & wireless), Windows Domain servers, Cisco Unity Call Manager VoIP phone system, and Cisco video conferencing systems.  ? Secondary responsibilities were IT support for employees in this office. This included imaging new computers (Mac & PC) with the company image, binding them to the domain, and setting employees with these computers and network access as they were hired into this new office. There were also day-to-day IT support & request tickets logged by employees for me to work on or solve so they could continue to be productive. Lead Back-End Web Developer Atypical Brands, LLC - Van Nuys, CA November 2013 to April 2014 ? Lead Back-End Developer and Systems Administrator in a team of six. Together, we implemented a new eCommerce solution on top of on the Magento code base.   ? Designed and maintained a highly available server cluster, where content was served, cached, and stored from multiple servers with no single point of failure. Web Developer Great Matter - Torrance, CA April 2013 to May 2013 ? Web Developer for a large number of websites. Works primarily with PHP, Javascript/jQuery, Drupal CMS, HTML5/CSS3, AJAX, MySQL, and LAMP Stack. Web Developer Gold Coast Partners March 2011 to April 2013 ? Worked in a two person team to company wide, internal order tracking system with a client-side  ecommerce portal in PHP on the Zend Framework.  ? Maintained an Adobe Flash based client-side application that queries and take statistics on company SQL databases. Education Certificate Program in Network Infrastructure Palm Beach State College - West Palm Beach, FL Present Bachelor's in Computer Science the USC Viterbi School of Engineering Skills PHP (7 years), MVC (7 years), MySQL (7 years), LAMP (7 years), NoSQL (3 years), Zend Framework (6 years), Magento (4 years), Linux (10+ years), Git (7 years), SVN (10+ years), Object Oriented Programming (OOP) (10+ years), Wordpress (2 years), Microsoft SCCM (1 year), Microsoft Active Directory (5 years), Cisco (2 years), Virtualization (4 years), PowerShell (1 year), Azure (1 year), As400 (1 year), Windows Server (3 years), Service Desk (10+ years), Help Desk (10+ years), Active Directory (5 years), Desktop Support (10+ years), Tech Support (10+ years), MAC, Group Policy (1 year), Microsoft SCCM (2 years), Powershell (1 year) Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/auexx9ksyu25qvrk Technical Support — Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/end1xfygu11pjf9o Critical Thinking — Expert May 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jhkxymxmppddpqck Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.