Sr. Salesforce Developer Sr. Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Salesforce Developer - Fiat Chrysler Automobiles Auburn Hills, MI • 8+ years of IT experience involving in analysis of business requirements development and implementation of software applications to support business needs.    • Proficient with Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, web service, Rest-API, Soap-API, Force.com App-exchange packages and Salesforce Metadata-API, Partner WSDL &Salesforce Enterprise WSDL.  • Force.com Certified Administrator (Admin 201) Professional.  • Force.com Certified Developer (DEV 401) Professional.  • Worked with various CRM applications like Salesforce.com, Sales Cloud, Custom Cloud, Reporting and Analytics of Sales, Service and Custom Cloud, Application on Code backup.  • Knowledge in Salesforce1 mobile platform administration and development.  • Excellent understanding on OOPS concepts and have experience working on Java to Salesforce Integration using WSC.  • Good experience in developing salesforce Lightning Apps, Components, Controllers and Events.  • Worked with Salesforce1 sandbox simulator to run and test the Lightning Applications  • Expertise in Apex Language, Apex Trigger, Apex Scheduler, Batch Apex, Apex Class & Apex Web Service, Visual Force (Page, Component & Controllers) & Ajax Tool Kit.  • Experience in setup, Configuration, Customization and Support of Salesforce.com CRM and related applications  • Hands on experience with Apex Language (Triggers, Classes, Test Methods), Visualforce Pages and Visualforce Components & Controllers.  • Experience in using Web-to-Lead, Web-to-Case and Email-to-case functionality.  • Designed Custom Formula Fields, Validation Rules, Work Flows, and Approval Processes for automated alerts, field updates, and Email generation on standard objects and custom objects according to application requirements.  • Expertise in Client side technologies HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, CSS.  • Created Visual Force Email templates (HTML and custom), New Templates, Mail Merges and also automated Email Process to send installation instructions to new and existing customers.  • Installed and implemented various third party applications (Apps) from App Exchange like DocuSign, job science, map anything, Lightening App Builder, Workbench tool, Chatter.  • Integration, Developing and deploying custom integration solutions using Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in,Force.com Explorer, Data Loader, Force.com Excel Connector, Migration Tool.  • Worked on Salesforce Communities and created VF pages for Communities.  • Partnered on implementation of Apttus system as the core Deal Desk management and Quoting tool  • Expertise in builds using Final builder and configuring version controls like CVS &VSSWell versed with Scrum based Agile methodologies.  • Experience in data analysis services, data flow diagramming and data modeling.  • Involved in defect resolution as part of QA testing, UAT testing and involved in resolving production issues and did post implementation support.  • Proficiency in SFDC Administrative tasks like creating Users, Roles, Profiles, Permission Sets, Organization wide defaults, Record Types, Page Layouts, Custom Settings, Approval process, Workflows, Validation rules, Reports, Dashboards, Tasks.  • Proficient in SOQL, SOSL queries across multiple objects within the SFDC database.  • Experienced in customizing standard objects Accounts, Contacts, opportunities, Products, Price books, Cases, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Dashboards.  • Developed Salesforce Custom Web Services for handling inbound requests and outbound calls to external Web Services.  • Experience on client side technologies like CSS, AJAX, JSON, HTML5, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experience using Salesforce Data Migration using Data load tools: Workbench, Jitterbit Data Loader, Informatica, Apex Data Loader and Salesforce API Data Loader.  • Developed Custom code for SFDC application and also developed custom code for data migration and integration  • Experience in diverse domains such as Information Technology, Finance, Banking, insurance and Production, Environmental. Work Experience Sr. Salesforce Developer Fiat Chrysler Automobiles - Auburn Hills, MI April 2016 to Present FCA is an American manufacturer of Automobiles. I gather requirements and partnered with various development teams through to delivery. I also have hand-on in creating new custom objects, creating validation rules, workflows, assigned fields, designed page layouts, and custom tabs and components in Salesforce.    Responsibilities:  • Designed, developed, and delivered a web portal that allows the salesreps to create accounts and key in orders.  • Developed Salesforce Lightning applications using Lightning Components, Controllers and Events and used custom CSS in the components.  • Analyzed complex business requirements and developed various Visualforce Pages, Apex Triggers to include extra functionality and wrote Apex Classes and Controllers to provide functionality to the visual pages.  • Worked on lightning for creating custom pages for lookup screens on Salesforce.  • Analyzed visualforce pages and made changes to work efficiently in both classic and Lightning mode.  • Implemented Lightning components  • Validate Salesforce.com - sales, service and community including salesforce1 (mobile)  • Worked on customer portals and communities administration.  • Created Custom Dashboards for community managers and recruiters home page and gave accessibility to dashboards for authorized people.  • Created Visualforce pages for custom login and configuration of communities.  • Configured Salesforce.com to meet business requirements - including fields, page layouts, workflows, approvals and validation rules.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controllers and Apex Triggers in accordance with the Governor limits for various functional needs in the application.  • Created users and limited their access based on their profile and organizational role. Used shared settings, object level security, field level security along with page layout to manage the visibility and accessibility of fields for different profiles.  • Designed presentation pages using Visualforce and customizing/extending standard page layouts to meet the requirement.  • Worked extensively on Accounts, Contacts, Tasks, Opportunities, Activities and Customized Objects for Layouts, record types and validation rules.  • Performed customizations by creating the Custom Objects, Custom profiles, Fields, Dependent pick-lists, Page Layouts, Record Types, Objects, Tabs, and custom Apps.  • Developed and configured various Dashboards, Custom Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Used SOQL and SOSL for querying the objects.  • Designed and developed Service cloud and integration  • Implemented Sales cloud and incorporated the enhanced features as required to streamline the business process.  • Supported the Data migration activities for migrating the data from various business centers and business center users with the support of Salesforce.com.  • Integrated the SOAP/REST API based Web Services and Informatica on Demand for extracting the data from external systems.  • Created custom Report types and Dashboards so that users can generate reports and visualize data on dashboards.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Prepared user's documentation and functional prototypes.  • Worked closely with the client and the offsite team; coordinated activities between them for effective implementation of the project. Salesforce Developer/ Admin Cisco Systems INC - Austin, TX February 2015 to March 2016 Cisco provides the networking foundation for some of the largest SERVICE providers, commercial businesses and enterprise customers in the world, including corporations, government agencies, utilities and educational institutions. Our networks direct 85 per cent of global Internet traffic and Cisco's networking solutions connect everything - People, Processes, data and things - anytime and anywhere.    Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with inside, outside sales teams and business analysts to perform detailed analysis and technical requirements and to design the solution by customizing various standard objects of SFDC.  • Worked on various Salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Cases, Activity, Opportunities, Contacts, leads, Dashboards, Reports, Products and Campaigns.  • Designed Deployed various Custom objects, Custom Tabs, Workflow rules, Validation Rules, Auto Response Rules, Page layouts, Components and Visual force pages to suit the needs of the application.  • Customized Visual force pages and modified the code for restricting some countries, which they are not willing to do the business.  • Automated sharing rules whenever there is a new change in Sales teams instead of using an Apex trigger.  • Worked with various Salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports, and Opportunities.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules, Components and Visualforce Pages.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time-triggered tasks, email alerts, field updates to implement business logic.  • Designed Custom application interface using VisualForce API and Apex Classes.  • Created Email templates, approval processes, approval page layouts and defined approval actions on them to automate the processes.  • Framed the scrum rules and governed the scrum, coach, manage the scrum team involved in monitoring and resolving issues that arise throughout the development process  • Facilitated effective SCRUM team meetings: stand-ups, sprint planning,  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Used SOQL & SOSL with in Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using Force.com Explorer.  • Extracted the data from Salesforce.com application into the external databases (Oracle 10g) for generating large data reports.  • Created Custom Profiles, Public Groups and Roles to distribute user rights and functionality.  • Used Salesforce Automation (SFA) for Sales Lead Management, Opportunity Management, Case Management, Account and Contact Management, Data Quality Management, Approvals and Workflow.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com subjects. Used it to read, extract and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files.  • Involved in data mapping and migration of data from legacy systems to Salesforce.com Objects and fields.  • Used the sandbox for testing and created managed packages and migrated them between Sandbox and Production environments for final implementations.  • Used Force.com web service API for implementing WSDL in the application for access to data from external systems and web sites.  • Created new user accounts and configure Salesforce.com to fit security needs at the user and organization levels. Created Roles, Permissions sets and given access to permission sets to based on Organization levels.  • Migration of Service cloud data into salesforce by using Data management tools such as Apex Data loader, Import wizard.    Environment: Salesforce.com Platform, Apex Language, Visual Force Pages, Data Loader, HTML, S-Controls, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, T-SQL, SQL, Service cloud, Sales Cloud, Pivotal Tracker, PL/SQL, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Net suite, Eclipse IDE Plug-in PimSoft, Houston, TX Nov 13 - Feb 15  Salesforce Developer/ Admin    It is Pimsoft mission to provide innovative, value-added solutions to customers using state of the art IT technologies. Pimsoft solutions are provided as plugins, to simply and quickly add intelligence to your enterprise's real time IT infrastructure.    Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with sales team and business analysts and performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements. Designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of SalesForce.com (SFDC).  • Involved in building marketing programs which consists of email, trigger and operational campaigns using marketing automation tool called Marketo  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Communicating with executive management on project status and overall project progress against target.  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Closely worked with SalesForce.com consultants while implementing the solutions for the requirements.  • Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Dashboards.  • Customized the Dashboards to the track usage for productivity and performance of their sales teams.  • Experience working in service cloud, supporting cases, developed workflows and triggers for automated case resolutions.  • Designed, Implemented and deployed the Custom objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components.  • Created the workflows for automated lead routing, lead escalation, alerts and custom coaching plans.  • Created Custom Objects and defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects.  • Created various profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy requirements.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, filed updates to implement business logic.  • Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and graphics) and Report Folders to assist managers to better utilize Salesforce as a sales tool and configured various Reports and for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.    ENVIRONMENT: Windows XP Pro, Windows service 2003, Force.com Platform, Salesforce Enterprise Edition, Salesforce.com, Custom/Standard Objects, Custom Tabs, Page Layouts, SOQL/SOSL Queries, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Force.com Eclipse Plug-in, SalesForce.com sandbox data loader, Email Services, Marketo, Security Controls, WSDL, AJAX. Salesforce Developer/ Administrator Fidelity Investments - Marlborough, MA October 2012 to November 2013 Fidelity Investments offers its client, entire client implementation based on the requirements from the client.Net Benefit (NB) is the online version of DBCS where participant himself/herself can calculate his/her future benefits and see the results right away on online. Plan Sponsor WebStation (PSW) is the system designed for employers which holds all the information regarding the employees and their details. Calc Engine is the Calculation Engine is the backbone of all these systems which calculates the benefits of the participants. The calculation can be initiated by a web services call either from NB or PSW.  Responsibilities:  • Actively involved with Business analysts, other developers, involved in enhancement of business modules using Standard and Custom Objects, formula logic, APEX classes, Triggers, Test Methods and writing SOQL queries.  • Created various profiles and configured permissions based on organizational hierarchy requirements.  • Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Campaigns, Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Opportunity, Forecast, Cases, Reports, and Dashboards.  • Perform detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and developed the Apex classes using other Platform based technologies like VisualForce, Force.com IDE.  • Conducted Requirement analysis and Design Walkthroughs along with the designers, consultants and management staff.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Supported data migration activities for migrating data from various business centers and business center users with the support of Saleforce.com.  • Implemented Web-to-lead to track and solve leads from the website  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers, packages for various functional needs in the application.  • Designed, Implemented and deployed Custom objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, and S Control to suit to application needs.  • Provided training to internal business users to use application and develop their own custom reports.  • Worked closely with UAT team and SIT team in clarifying and resolving any issues while implementing projects.  • Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Opportunities.  ENVIRONMENT: Salesforce.com, Force.com Explorer, Apex Triggers, Visualforce Pages & Apex Controllers, Salesforce.com Data Loader, Siebel, Eclipse IDE, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Force.com Eclipse Plug-in,SalesForce.com sandbox data load, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, HTML, Java Script, CSS, WSDL, SOAP, SSIS, ETL, AJAX, MVC Design Patterns Salesforce Developer/ Web Developer NSG India - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2010 to September 2012 Analyzing project needs for spatial data by reviewing existing county data, recommending data needs, accessing available digital data from outside sources, and determines analyses needed to fulfill project requirements.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match functional needs.  • Worked in three different production instances within the organization, involved in various configuration and setup activities and in production support.  • Designed, and deployed Custom objects, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, VisualForce Pages to suit application needs.  • Designed and Developed user interfaces using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  • Performed ETL into Oracle Data Warehouse using Informatica Mappings including transformations Aggregator, Joiner, Lookup (Connected & unconnected), Filter, Update Strategy, Stored Procedure, Router, Expression, SQL and Sorter.  • Exposure to various latest features of salesforce like Permission Sets to give user-specific permissions, content management, documents and libraries.  • Designed and implemented the solution by customizing various sales process standard objects like Leads, Contacts, Accounts, Opportunities, Cases and solutions of SalesForce.com (SFDC).  • Created workflows and tested mappings and workflows in development, test and production environment.  • Worked in Single sign-on, SAML settings to enable the user to login to various applications simultaneously.  • In charge of the deployment and complete setup in 3 production instances, used Eclipse and change set for deploying.  • Customized several Formula Fields, Validation Rules, Tasks, Workflow rules, Triggers, Apex classes to achieve the complex business functionality.  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, junction objects, master detail relationships, validation rules and formula fields to the custom objects.    ENVIRONMENT: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visualforce (Pages, Component & Controllers), Pages, Data Loader, HTML, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Cast Iron, Security Controls, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows XP. Java Developer Radiant Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2009 to September 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements collection, Design and Analysis of the customer specifications, Development and Customization of the application.  • Data handling between consequent calls to server were incorporated by session state, application state and query strings.  • Performed Integration Testing by adding all modules together for the web based application.  • The application is based on the MVC-II Architecture using Apache Struts framework.  • Developed and maintained optimized SQL queries in Data Warehouse  • Developed application based on SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle).  • Used JUnit to write repeatable tests (regression testing), mainly for unit testing.  • Developed the web pages JSP, CSS, JavaScript.  • Developed Business logic on Java beans and setup connection with database.  • Managed Source Code in CVS environment.  • Implemented store procedures and triggers using PL/SQL.  • Created several complex stored procedures and triggers using SQL Server 2005 to retrieve data.    ENVIRONMENT: Java, MVC, EJB, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JBuilder IDE, HTML, XML, JavaScript, BEA WebLogic, Oracle, Internet Explorer, MS SQL Server 2005, T-SQL, and Windows 2007. Education Bachelor's Skills Apex (6 years), Eclipse. (6 years), HTML (5 years), Oracle (4 years), SQL (4 years), Salesforce.com, Apex, Visualforce (Pages, Component & Controllers), Lightning (components and controllers), Communities, REST/SOAP API Web Services, Sales Cloud, Pages, HTML, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Ajax, JQuery, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Data Migration, SOQL, SOSL, Cast Iron, Windows XP. (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Salesforce Technologies  Salesforce CRM, Salesforce SFA, Apex Language, Apex Classes/Controllers, Apex Triggers, Apex Data Loader, SOQL, SOSL, Visual Force Pages / Components, S Controls, Apex Web Services & Testing, AJAX, Workflow & Approvals, Dashboards, Analytic Snapshots, Case Management Automation, Custom Objects.    Salesforce Tools Eclipse, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Apex Data Loader, Force.com, Workbench, Force.com Platform.  ETL Tools  InformaticaPoweCenterv8.6.1/8.1.1/7.1.3/6.2/5.1(Repository Manager, Power Center Designer including - Source Analyzer, Target Designer, Transformation developer, Mapplet Designer, Mapping Designer), Workflow Manager, Workflow Designer and Workflow Monitor    Databases Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8i, DB2, VSAM, IMS DB, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, MS Access  Programming Languages Apex, Java, JavaScript, HTML, Bootstrap, Jquery, XML, BMI, SSIS, ETL, XHTML/DHTML PL/SQL, SQL, COBOL, PL/1, JCL  Integration Tools Knowledge Tools, Apttus CPQ and CLM, App Exchange Tools, Informatica Cloud, Marketo.    Methodologies: ER Modeling, Multi Dimensional Modeling, Ralph Kimball, Data Warehouse Life Cycle