Web development intern <span class="hl">Web</span> development intern Web development intern Bloomington, IN ü 2+ years of experience as a Python Developer, proficient coder in multiple languages and experience  in Design, Development, Implementation of Python, Django client-server technologies-based  applications, RESTful services and SQL.  ü Experience in object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  ü Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT architecture using Django, web  application frameworks, with good understanding of Django ORM and SQLAlchemy.  ü Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and MAMP (Mac, Apache,  MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  ü Extensive experience in developing applications by implementation of web based and client/server  application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and various technologies.  ü Excellent Experience on various Python integrated IDE's such as Sublime Text, PyCharm, Eclipse.  ü Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)-Waterfall, agile Process across  various workflows (Requirement study, Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing, Deployment and  Maintenance) in Web & Client/Server application development.  ü Experience in working with several python libraries including NumPy, matplotlib, SciPy  ü Good knowledge of Web Services with protocols SOAP and REST.  ü Expert at version control systems like Github.  ü Experience in developing web applications implementing MVC architecture using Django framework  ü Experience in Agile development processes ensuring rapid and high quality software delivery  ü Highly motivated, quality minded developer, with proven ability to deliver applications against tight  deadlines. Work Experience Web development intern Future Wonder - Bloomington, IN June 2018 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  ü Involved in live projects and created web application using HTML/ CSS/ Bootstrap for frontend  ü First hands-on experience with REACT/ REDUX  ü Developed code using Python for backend along with the JSON for data retrieval and visualization  ü Code reviewing using GitHub pull requests and Bitbucket with participation in team meetings Python Developer SPEC India - Gujarat, IN January 2014 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  ü Involved in the project life cycle including design, development and implementation and verification and validation  ü Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and matplotlib for data visualization of sales, tracking  progress, identifying trends.  ü Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library (Tweepy), Used  JSON to store the twitter data which was further represented using matplotlib visualization and generated graphical reports for business decision using matplotlib library.  ü Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality, also conducted  meetings among Team.  ü Developed server-based web traffic using RESTful API's statistical analysis tool using Django Pandas.  ü Worked with RDBMS like MySQL databases to query and read data.  ü Developed various Python scripts to find vulnerabilities with SQL Queries by doing SQL injection, permission checks and performance analysis.  ü Developed scripts to migrate data from proprietary database to MySQL.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, JSON, JavaScript, Git, MySQL Education Master's in Information Science in Information Science Indiana University - Bloomington, IN May 2019 Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology in Information Technology Gujarat University - Gujarat, IN 2011 Skills Django, Git, Javascript, Python, Xml, PHP, Front End