Web Designer/ Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> Designer/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Draper, UT Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Designer/ Developer Plus One Company - Draper, UT March 2018 to Present We are creating a very extensive CRM, not only for this company but to be sold to other companies as well. I manage the implementation of the design. I am a master at CSS and responsive templates. I have insured that every application is consistent with design and is responsive. I also insure that the applications look precise in every possible browser and operating system. Media Director Fusion Marketing - Draper, UT January 2014 to Present My accomplishments and responsibilities are vast in this position. Creating brochure type WordPress sites is my main responsibility. This would not only include the building of the site but the assets as well. I have created graphics, animations, video and text content for website. I have also created corresponded print work for marketing the sites I have built. IT Coordinator and Media Director South Mountain Community Church - Draper, UT January 2011 to April 2016 I managed volunteers and fixed everything with wires. At times I created assets for the website. I managed the website. I managed the network. I also volunteered time during special service to do large art pieces ie. I would paint images on canvas during sermons to help illustrate what the Pastor was expressing. Education Bachelor's in Web Design and Development Full Sail - Winter Park, FL January 2015 to August 2017 Skills CSS, HTML 5, Git, Javascript, Adobe Creative Cloud, Final Cut Pro Assessments Graphic Design — Expert August 2019 Using graphic design techniques and producing visual media to communicate concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/z8npm3i0damp5joi Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.