Sr. Mobile Developer Sr. Mobile <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Mobile Developer - Oxford Health Plan Philadelphia, PA • Over 8+ Years of progressive experience in software development with Five years of iOS development experience in developing iPhone and iPad apps using Objective-C, C++, Swift and Cocoa Touch testing, maintaining and publishing iOS apps internally and on App Store.  • Complete understanding of iPhone/iPad/iPod architecture and various versions of iPhone Software Development Kit (SDK) that includes Xcode, UIKit, MapKit, WebKit, Instruments, iPhone simulator and Third Party frameworks.  • Good exposure to third party frameworks and IDEs-Xamarin, Cordova and Android Studio..  • Used Spring MVC to implement REST architecture and get account activity, stock portfolio, cash flow, quantitative and analytics from web services and database. Applied JSON format to transfer data in services.  • Developed Hibernate Relationship and Inheritance Mapping using ORM in Hibernate to achieve features of gathering details of account activity by setting up search criteria.  • Implemented MHA (Master High Availability) for My SQL, added custom Perl code snippet for graceful online/manual (panned) failover  • Built a REST ful API to save and retrieve geo locations using a remote server in Java using Spring, Mongo DB, Apache CXF, and JAX-RS  • Designed and deployed server side EJB (Session Beans and Entity Beans) components on Eclipse IDE.  • Worked on servers including Web Sphere application server, Web logic Application server, J Boss application server and Apache Tomcat web server.  Worked with version controlling tools, which includes Git Hub, SVN, CVS, Harvest & Clear case.  • Java Based Quality Center plug in which can be used in any tools such as Selenium, RFT etc.  • Revamped development process to Agile (Scrum) model of implementation  • Reviewed and analyzed requirements to design and implement functional specifications for the integration of the Front-End Interfaces and J2EE Server Machine for Web Tier JSP pages and Business Tier Enterprise Beans.  • Designed the presentation layer with Servlets and JSPs to display the portfolios, activities and reports. Developed the web pages using HTML/CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  • Used Maven script for building and deploying the application.  • Collaboration technology planning, social media adoption and metrics Web 2.0 strategy  • Worked with business teams using agile methodology to integrate business line of apps with SOA in a seamless fashion.  • Developed iPhone and Android mobile app using Sencha Touch and Phone gap framework.  • Experience in Web technologies using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, XHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Node JS, AngularJS and JSP. Work Experience Sr. Mobile Developer Oxford Health Plan - Van Nuys, CA August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Architected a customized network protocol used by client applications including Android, iOS and Windows Phone 7 to communicate with cloud architectures.  • Developed new features using Cordova and Angular JS.  • Wrote and integrated custom Cordova plugins, OAuth and GPS using native code, Objective C and Android Studio, Java.  • Architected and coded mobile hybrid applications (iOS and Android) using pure HTML5, CSS and JavaScript codebases (Cordova)  • Integrated Native iOS Objective-C based APIs and frameworks with Xamarin automatic binding generator.  • Developed Android Mobile applications with Xamarin Studio in using Xcode in Swift.  • Used c# with combination of Entity framework and CSLA Architecture to develop the product.  • Worked with Team foundation server on eclipse to interact codebase changes for iOS.  • Developed Hybrid Mobile App with Ionic and Cordova framework on both Android and IOS platforms.  • Designed hybrid mobile app for Android and iOS using Ionic, Cordova, AngularJS.  • Used cordova, HTML5, backbone, amber.js, requirejs, knockout, jasmine, .less, google material and many new UI technologies.  • Developed applications using HTML/5, CSS, Scss, Angular .Net, Git, followed MVC structure  • Migrated web service project source code from SourceGear Vault to Microsoft Team Foundation Server.  • Used Swift iOS as a programming language to develop the application.  • Integrated three third-party API's using C#, JavaScript and PowerShell scripts.  • Developed a multi platform phone app for iOS, Android, Windows Phone 7.  • Used PHP RESTFul Service for data communication.  • Developed Hamper Mobile App using Xamain.IOS/Xamarin.Android (native) in a team using GitHub repository  • Developed for Universal Windows Platform using XAMARIN.FORMS.  • Utilized tools/products including TFS, TestRail, Central Desktop, Mingle, Fiddler, Wireshark, Xmind  • Build client and server technology using HTML, CSS, Cordova/Phonegap, Objective C, Xcode and Swift Development mobile web application for Android, iOS.  • Created RESTful API for Web Application and Hybrid Application (Routing, Controllers, Factories, Seeder and Testing) using Laravel, Lumen, Virtual Box and Vagrant.  • Developed Android Mobile applications with Xamarin Studio in C#, .Net, using Xcode in Swift.  • Worked on JDBC to select and update the data from the MySQL database  • Developed iOS application and networking API features for iOS using Xcode, Objective-C, Cocoa Touch, iOS SDK, Core Data  • Implemented apps with Google new SDK implementation, new features in Android SDK  • Used native and third party technologies to optimize the app functionality including Android Studio.  • Repurposed the Content of web for Mobile using jQuery mobile & launched a Mobile Application.  • Cooperated with R&D team for developing front end solutions using JQuery Mobile  • Worked on the MySQL migration project .To make the system completely independent of the database.  • Installed and configured the development environment using Web-logic on Windows NT and LINUX  • Used Resource Manager to schedule the job in Unix server.  • Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, Sencha, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  • Played a key role in writing application logic using Eclipse IDE and Android SDK.  • Developed an android mobile application based on Android Studio  • Architected and implement REST api interfaces using javascript and Node.js  • Created ASP.NET User Controls and Master pages to reduce the complexity of user interface design and to have a common look and feel.  • Developed a C# and Silverlight front-end application to access the web service  • Created Flex classes (actionscript and MXML files) using Flex PureMVC pattern.  • Developed applications using a combination of Java with Android SDK, and Java like mobile time tracking user interface for iPhone and Android using PhoneGap library    Environment: Android, Android SDK, IOS, Phonegap, Silverlight, Cordova, Iphone, Ipad, Objective C, XCode, Swift, Asp.Net, C#, Angular, Typescript, HTML, Xamarin, Team Foundation Server, CSS, JSON, Jquery Mobile, Eclipse, RAD, Oracle, PL/SQL, MySql, MS-Sql, JDBC, Android Studio, Web Services, SOAP, REST, Agile, Scrum, Linux, Unix. Sr. Mobile Developer Glaxo Smith Kline - Columbia, MD February 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Expert in iPhone, iPad, Objective C, Cocoa/Cocoa Touch, XCode, Swift, Jqtouch, Sencha Touch, Dojo Mobile, Jquery mobile with rich understanding of frameworks, memory management, multi-threading, best practices, and development tools.  • Designed and developed multi-protocol telecom Single-Page Architecture application using Node.js, Express and Jade on the backend.  • Developed UI components for email and link sharing of documents and files for a Content Management System using Backbone.js and jQuery  • Involved in developing user interface using MXML, AIR Applications, Flash Animations, Flash design, Action Script and CSS. Involved in developing presentation tier using HTML, JSP, Java Script, Ajax and Struts.  • Developed prototypes using Flex , ActionScript 3, JavaScript, HTML, GWT and Java.  • Developed Silverlight application using Onion/PRISM Architecture  • Developed prototypes using ActionScript, JavaScript, HTML, GWT and Java.  • Used Phonegap to build the mobile application suitable to Android, Iphone and Mobile Browsers Managed tasks within Agile framework, cleared Sprinted tasks, and controlled JIRA workflows.  • Worked with the Android and implemented Android Bluetooth and Location Connectivity components  • Architected a customized network protocol used by client applications including Android, iOS and Windows Phone 7 to communicate with cloud architectures  • Developed hibernate DAO Accessor Classes using Spring JDBC Template, Worked with Hibernate for object relational mapping and connection management.  • Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IoC, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema.  • Design, develop and test of SOA services using SOA / Web Service / Oracle  • Develop innovative and quality solutions by making use of latest tools and technologies like Apache CXF, Spring Core, and Spring AOP.  • Developed Rest architecture based webservices to facilitate communication between client and servers.  • Developed Mobile application with Java Script, jQuery, JSON and Restful web service  • Responsible, efficient, cooperative and eager to learn new technology Skilled in developing APIs for middle ware Framework modules for mobile platforms using C and C++ and Java  • Develop mobile time tracking user interface for iPhone and Android using PhoneGap library  • Used jQTouch to handle touch events on iOS and Honeycomb.  • Design, development, testing and implementation of WEB applications using Sencha touch framework    Environment: iOS, Mobile, Node.js , Backbone.js Flash , Dojo, Flex, Silverlight , ActionScript iPhone , Android , Windows Phone 7 , Blackberry Spring Hibernate Oracle Apache Cxf Rest json Web Services Eclipse Weblogic Git, Github Selenium Scrum Jsp servlet Ant Php , Ruby , wordpress , drupal, .Net , ASP, C, C++ PhoneGap , jqtouch Sencha Touch Html5 CSS3. Mob Developer Sovereign Bancorp Mortgage - Columbus, OH February 2015 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • Designed mobile websites and apps for iOS and Android using jQuery Mobile, PhoneGap.  • Mobile application development utilizing Javascript API Framework  • Created mobile applications utilizing both HTML/JavaScript (PhoneGap) and native technologies Java on Android and Objective C on iOS platforms  • Worked in team to develop iOS and Android application.  • Build Android/IOS applications using frameworks such as Phone Gap and Cordova  • Utilized several cordova plugins to provide and consume native capability on the application  • Developed the hybrid side of the application using Ionic framework, AngularJS and cordova plugin  • Developed the Unit Tests using Xamarin.UITest and REPL tool  • Designed, implemented, tested, and deployed one web app using JavaScript on Cordova platform  • Migrated our source control from Visual Source Safe to Team Foundation Server.  • Both native mobile platforms such as Eclipse for Android, Hybrid Mobile app platform using HTML5, Phonegap, Cordova.  • Developed RESTful API endpoints to transfer the user data  • Designed the Cross-Platform software architecture using Xamarin.Forms and PCL components  • Architected and built Android Native, iOS and AppMobi/PhoneGap-based mobile applications  • interfacing with external RESTful and SOAP-based web services, interacting with external design group for UX and transforming/translating design-level requirements into functional requirements for same.  • Used TFS (Team Foundation Server) for version control  • Worked on full software development cycle from concept through deployment for iOS and Android.  • Developed a real time sports management web platform using SQL, JQuery Mobile and Flex.  • Designed and implemented database structure in MySQL Server.  • Tool for copying and/or deleting large batches of Team Foundation Server test cases for QA  • Implemented the Xamarin Insight crash reports, users, audience and events for monitoring the app across App Store and Google Play.  • Designed, Developed and maintained iOS applications using Cocoa Touch and Objective C.  • Conceptualized, designed, developed and deployed mobile applications using iOS SDK, Xcode.  • Used Android SDK and Eclipse IDE for development  • Worked with Storyboard (Xamarin and XCode) and Layouts (Xamarin) for the UI interfaces for iPhone, iPad and Android.  • Developed an app for an augmented reality device that points towards the direction of the sound source using Android Studio and machine learning methods.  • Created directory structure flow using UNIX to receive and send data to internal and external systems  • Designed and implemented using iPhone SDK, XCode, Objective C and Interface Builder.  • Implemented native libraries in application by using Android SDK and Android NDK.  • Debugging and problem-solving skills with Eclipse, Android Studio, IntelliJ IDEA, and RAD.  • Designed and developed multi-protocol telecom Single-Page Architecture application using Node.js, Express and Jade on the backend  • Data modeling using Database development skills in Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL.  • Designed and Developed programs in C++ to integrate as per the users requirements.  • Co-developed a new tool on the Express nodeJS/backBone.js MVC platform that allows marketers to insert dynamic content in email sends based on location and temporal factors  • Developed localizable GUIs using JavaScript, C#, WCF and Silverlight for Microsoft.  • A native android application with the same functionality is developed in Java using Eclipse, Android SDK, HTML, jQuery Mobile, CSS, PhoneGap.    Environment: Android, Android SDK, IOS, Xamarin, Phonegap, Cordova, Objective C, XCode, C#, ASP.Net, JQuery Mobile, Silverlight, Actionscript, Iphone, Ipad, Angular, Team Foundation Server, Typescript, HTML, CSS, Dojo Mobile, Agile, Scrum, Eclipse, Android Studio, RAD, DB2, PL/SQL, JDBC, Oracle, SOAP, Web Services, Linux, Unix, Eclipse, Git, Github, UML Web Developer Comcast Corporation - Atlanta, GA September 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Ported an iPhone iOS application to Android to include SQLite database management and several data entry views and GUIs.  • Published the application in production for all platforms (Android)  • Developed the presentation layer (UI) using JSP, Tag libraries, HTML, Flash, CSS and client validations using JavaScript.  • Developed Coding the presentation layer using WPF and Silverlight.  • Developed prototypes using Flex, ActionScript, JavaScript, HTML, GWT and Java  • Responsible for building the application front end UI in Flex, ActionScript, FlashBuilder4 and Parsley.  • Developed UI components for email and link sharing of documents and files for a Content Management System using Backbone.js and jQuery  • Develop mobile time tracking user interface for iPhone and Android using PhoneGap library  • Developed iPhone and Android mobile app using Sencha Touch and Phonegap framework  • Used sencha touch for development to find relevant people for the same social Networking Websites  • Assisted in the logistical parameters of the iPad deployment process by keeping a daily count of total iPads and monitoring the shipping methods.  • Involved in updating the application UI and application data structure for both Iphone/Ipad.  • Used JavaScript, JQuery, JQuery Mobile and EJS developed UI for a J2EE web application.  • Redesign part of an existing web application that was meant for desktops to work on mobile phones using JQuery Mobile  • Used JQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  • Prepared statements are used for communication with MySql database  • Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  • Coded scripts to clean normalize, reformat data for loading into the system using Ruby scripts  • Website development based on WordPress as a content management system.  • Designed and developed the individual components of the system using C++ and CORBA  • Developed code using C, C++ for secure transaction.  • Involved in packaging, deployment and upgrade of different modules of SAS on JBoss App Server. VB code Analysis and Sybase store procedure converted into SQL    Environment: Android, IOS, Phonegap, Jqtouch, Sencha Touch, Java, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Mercurial, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, Ant, XML, EMC Documentum, Jira, Swing, Cognos, iLog, Oracle ADF, Oracle BPM, IBM MQ Series, Apache Tomcat, Linux, Unix, Ruby, COBOL, PL/I, JCL, SQL, SAS, VB. Software Developer SA Technologies Inc - Santa Clara, CA October 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Worked on full software development cycle from concept through deployment for iOS and Android.  • Integrated various plugins to access and customize native iPhone and Android features.  • Developed an Android keyboard entry game with different selectable skins in a dynamic drawing threaded environment.  • Started the Android codebase for the topi mobile app and responsible for all following updates.  • Developed UI components for email and link sharing of documents and files for a Content Management System using Backbone.js and jQuery  • Created re-usable custom components in Flex and ActionScript.  • Developed Silverlight add-on applications for use with CRM solutions  • Implemented business requirements using Actionscript  • Design and written Unit test cases and scenarios for Windows Phone 7.  • Developed iPhone and Android mobile app using Sencha Touch and Phonegap framework.  • Developed share view using Sencha Touch for non flash supporting devices.  • Delivered mobile app for book reading capability with HTML5 Sencha and online service with Flash/Flex.  • Work closely with the web application development team to ensure proper integration between mobile application and web application.  • Used services, Asynchronous tasks and Alert Notification API to implement event reminder feature into the mobile app.  • Participated in the quality assurance of the app including, testing of the User Interface and testing the app on different mobile devices.    Environment: Android, IOS, Phonegap, Jqtouch, Sencha Touch, Java, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Mercurial, ClearCase, Selenium, REST, Android SDK, Eclipse IDE, API, DDMS, XML, JSON, Android, Android API's, Eclipse IDE Software Developer CITI Bank - New York, NY October 2009 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  • Performed form validations using reactive forms from Angular2.0 framework.  • Implemented error handling and strictly typed coding practices.  • Leveraged Angular2 resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs, and standardizing data access interfaces.  • Developed a single page, mobile-first, cross-device/cross-browser web application for real-time location sharing utilizing React JS, Angular JS and JavaScript API.  • Created mock services and data to accelerate front-end development while awaiting Restful APIs to be developed.  • Created Mock Services and data to accelerate front-end development while awaiting RESTFUL APIs to be developed.  • Successfully performed the RESTFUL APIs Integration and developed an API wrapper for reusability.  • Created Angular2 Directives, Components, Pipes, Injectables across the whole system, such as to build the custom filter.  • Highly used Angular2 Router to build single page application for navigate through the different status and multiple modals.  • Optimizing the code of reusability using the Decorators and injecting the services to access those in any components by using the property called providers in Angular2 Components.  • Worked on Webpack as module builder for build workflow for Web Application.  • Created unit test cases of Angular2 components, services using Karma-test-runner and Jasmine.  • Developed reusable style sheet partials using Sass Processor.  • Involved in Writing jQuery-based Ajax Requests.  • Developed Custom input elements using components.  • Analyzing and resolving issues found during the testing or pre-production phases of the software delivery lifecycle; coordinating changes with project team leader and cross-work team members.  • Every technical detail has been documented in the confluence Wiki.  • Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronized data with server.  • Using Jenkins for continuous integration of builds.  • Performed Unit testing using Jasmine and Karma.  • Generated the Istanbul report on NPM test.  • Followed best practices and standards for accessibility and cross-browser compatibility.  • Worked with version control GIT to manage the code repository.  • Used JIRA to track the user stories and defects with agile technology.  • Exposure to new features and issues addressed in Angular 2.0.  • Utilized the Dependency Injection mechanism for simpler way of managing the controllers and scopes.    Environment: Java, CSS, HTML, XHTML, Java, IIS, Adobe Dreamweaver MX, Macromedia Flash MX, Adobe Fireworks MX, IIS and Oracle. HTTP Web Server, Apache Tomcat, Web logic, Web Sphere, IIS, Node server Wire Frame Tools: Adobe Illustrator CS3, Microsoft Visio. Education Master of Science Science and Engineering Florida State University Skills CSS (7 years), HTML (7 years), Java. (9 years), JavaScript (7 years), jQuery (9 years)