Web Developer Intern <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Intern Web Developer , Web Analyst , Web Designer,UX/UI developer,Help Desk Analyst Valparaiso, IN To pursue a challenging career as Web Developer/ Web Designer,UX/UI developer. Work Experience Web Developer Intern Opportunity Enterprises - Valparaiso, IN May 2019 to Present • Redesign existing website to improve user experience and incorporate SEO techniques.  • Modify design to create a responsive page using Wix editor.  • Work closely with marketing team to develop a strategy and plan website releases.  • Maintain website by updating contents, monitor performance, develop site graphics and correct image problems.  • Improve website design, taking into account style standards on typography, color palette and consistent patterns. Web Developer Freelance - Valparaiso, IN 2017 to 2019 • Consult with client to outline website goals, illustrate wire frame, and site functionality.  • Develop and design web layouts and site graphics, correct image problems, and format company logo for the website.  • Develop a user-friendly, responsive and functional website.  • Validate website by testing HTML, CSS and JavaScript codes to ensure cross-platform compatibility. Quality Analyst Tenaris - Calgary, AB 2014 to 2016 • Understand the business requirements of the product’s various functionality.  • Write test cases based on requirement specification document and maintain the test cases.  • Perform functional testing, integration and regression testing.  • Work closely with the development team to troubleshoot software and identify reproducible issues.  • Review test cases/test evidence and execute test cases and report test execution results. Counter Operations Agent Best Buy - Calgary, AB 2011 to 2013 • Assist customers with service/repair issues, discusses product with customers to determine product problems and service requirements.   • Contact customer regarding status of repair, solicits additional information if needed, and provides work estimates.   • PC troubleshooting and installation of hardware and software, new computer setup, updates, virus removal and data backup. Help Desk Analyst InfoWorld Systems - Nashik, Maharashtra 2007 to 2010 • Responsible for diagnosing & resolving hardware, software & end users problems.  • Handle incoming incidents via the phone / e-mail promptly and effectively.   • Provide troubleshooting and configuration support for client desktop and networking environment.  • Install and configure computer hardware systems.   • Deploy new hardware, backups & evaluate new software & security risks. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science Pune University - Pune, India Certification in Web Design Southern Alberta Institute of Technology Skills JAVASCRIPT (1 year), ACCESS (3 years), C++ (2 years), CMS (1 year), CONTENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (1 year), Wordpress, PHP, MYSQL, CSS, HTML 5, Git, Bootstrap (1 year) Certifications/Licenses Comptia A+ certification Comptia A+ certification completed June,2010 Additional Information COMPETENCIES:  Programming/ Web: C, C++, XHTML/HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, PHP, XML  Software: Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Illustrator, MS-Office  CMS Technology: WordPress  Database: Ms-Access, MySQL