UI Design / Web Design / Graphic Design UI Design / <span class="hl">Web</span> Design / Graphic Design Freelance Work UI Design / Web Design / Graphic Design - Freelance Work Chicago, IL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Design / Web Design / Graphic Design Blue Plate Catering May 2017 to Present Blue Plate Chicago - Complete UI design for website refresh (mock-ups, wireframes, and site-maps using Sketch and InVision) email template creation, print/ web collatoral  including catalogs, print/ web ads (Crain's Chicago Business, Eater Chicago, LinkedIn) Joseph Smart Lead Web Developer / Web Master josephsmart.com August 2015 to 2016 Lead front-end developer for josephsmart.com. Also the creator of their Volusion e-commerce platform, custom designed to house multiple  store fronts pulling from a single product SQL database. CSS, AJAX, XHTML5, web graphic design, minor PHP/JavaScript editing, and extensive  research of the Volusion platform were used to accomplish the tasks. Created shop.josephsmart.com using Shopify. Administrator and web  master of all Joseph Smarts platforms. ICO Uniforms E-Commerce Web Developer / Web Master November 2010 to 2015 Lead project manager and lead administrator of over 57 e-commerce sites while there, each having unique design and functionality requirements to meet client needs. The Volusion e-commerce platform was the content management system used for each site. CSS, AJAX, XHTML5, web graphic  design, minor PHP/JavaScript editing, and extensive research of the Volusion platform were used to accomplish the tasks. Worked with third parties for accounting system integration as well as managed on-site staff in CMS use. Other responsibilities include overseeing constant contact email theme  creation and marketing, and modifying WordPress themes with graphic design, CSS, and plug-ins. NewCastle UI Designer / Administrator June 2009 to October 2010 Created and maintained a dotproject application, forums, and an image storage and upload utility for private company use. Each of these applications where modified using CSS, graphic design, and slight PHP rewriting. I maintained these applications and aiding staff in the use    of them. I also managed our FTP and managed all Autocad drawings as well as interfaced with the engineering firms to ensure project complience Education Interactive Systems University of Central Florida 2005 to 2009 Skills Adobe Suite (4 years), HTML5 / CSS (3 years), Bootstrap (3 years), Sketch (2 years), Invision (2 years), usability and research (3 years) Links http://vaalerdesign.com