Freelance Web- Developer Freelance <span class="hl">Web</span>-<span class="hl">Developer</span> Freelance Web Design + Development Eustis, FL MISSION STATEMENT  To learn any and everything, that is willing to be taught. To research what I do not know and to pass on what I do. To not give up, all the while staying positive. To lead by example and listen before I speak. To think creatively and never from within a box. Moreover, to promise a handshake filled with honesty and ethics. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance Web- Developer Self-Employed - Tavares, FL 2015 to Present Freelance web development and design of multiple small projects including editing and updating existing websites and dynamic web applications. Wordpress setup with plugin customization. Site backup, hosting, and site transfers. Shopify setup with plugin customization, design, and custom theme development. Store management training. Squarespace setup and design changes. Internet Technical Support Specialist TeleNetwork Inc - Remote 2014 to 2015 Internet technical support technician in a customer call center, troubleshooting and maintaining internet connectivity for all home devices and NID’s. Run line diagnostics, confirm line status and refer to outside departments if needed. Write up trouble tickets in help desk software for escalation. Narcotic Pharmacy Technician Florida Hospital - Tavares, FL 2011 to 2014 Ran 3rd party and in-house hospital software, including, but not limited to Citrix, Cerner, and CareFusion’s Pyxis Systems. Assisted in creating, implementing and maintaining the CII-CIV Drug Diversion Program. Implemented and maintained a new barcode drug labeling system and software. Worked with, to help correct and maintain, the corporation’s drug database maintained by Corporate’s PharmNet Build Team. Collaborated with Corporate CDM Billing Department assisting in proper pharmacy formulary builds and CDM maintenance within their Cerner PharmNet database software. Assisted with Pharmacy Pyxis dispense and vault access control. Maintained running reports of hospital narcotic discrepancies and federal narcotic audit reports. Education Associate in Information Technology Management with concentration on Network Security Rasmussen College 2018 Skills Wordpress (4 years), Javascript (Less than 1 year), PHP (Less than 1 year), Shopify (4 years), Squarespace (4 years), Bootstrap (4 years), Adobe Creative Cloud (4 years), MS Office suite (10+ years), HTML5 (5 years), Front End (4 years), CSS3 (5 years), Web Design (4 years), Liquid (2 years), Jquery (Less than 1 year), Git (Less than 1 year), Organizational Skills (10+ years), Leadership Development (5 years), Independent (10+ years), Ethical (10+ years), Troubleshooting/Maintenance/Repair (5 years), Windows/Mac OS/Ubuntu/Basic Linux (5 years), Windows Server (3 years) Assessments Intermediate Word Processing with Microsoft Word — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of intermediate Microsoft Word techniques including the use of formatting, Track Changes, and Comments. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/kp-uh9rvaqjhhoke Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.