Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Back-End Developer Fairfield, IA Java Back-End Developer | Available for full-time W-2 Employment | Willing to Relocate    Software developer experienced in the analysis, design, development, and testing of applications through all stages of the software development cycle. Skilled in using Java, Spring, Hibernate, Angular, NodeJS and Javascript. Successful in providing client solutions with strong skills in customer service. Background in network administration. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer PLACE 'N PEPPER - Sao Paulo, BR June 2017 to October 2018 Tasks Performed:  • Integrated the payment gateway through API.  • Pro-actively identified potential code issues and developed sustainable solutions.  • Led outsourced company to develop features and improvements on the front-end consistent with business needs. Web Developer COTHAR - Sao Paulo, BR January 2016 to December 2016 Project base developer creating front-end web design and back-end development.    Tasks Performed:  • Enhanced landing page using Bootstrap.  • Improved application dashboard interface in alignment with design requirements.  • Developed user interface for quote requests.  • Implemented control access for users and suppliers using Userfrosting framework. Network Analyst TIM Telecommunications - Sao Paulo, BR February 2014 to March 2016 • Managed, monitored, and deployed new data center-related devices, including current configurations  in accordance with network infrastructure security policy.  • Led external teams and provided support on installation / technical issues.  • Created documentation of network topology and infrastructure. Software Developer CERVEJANDO - Sao Paulo, BR January 2015 to January 2016 Designed hybrid mobile app to operate on both Android and iOS platforms.    Tasks Performed:  • Created mockup design.  • Developed hybrid mobile application from scratch.  • Implemented necessary features including listing spots, find by location, booking, managing coupons, and user profile.  • Compiled all documentation. Senior Telecommunications Technician AES ELETROPAULO - Sao Paulo, BR June 2008 to December 2012 • Ensure continuous operations for networking hardware and optical fiber network.  • Resolved technical issues via expert analysis of complex trouble-shooting issues.  • Provided technical support of LAN-to-LAN services to corporate customers. Education Master's in Computer Science (In progress via distance education - DE) Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA November 2018 to June 2021 Bachelor's in Control and Automation Engineering Instituto Mauá de Tecnologia - São Caetano do Sul, BR January 2008 to 2014 Skills Javascript, HTML, Angular, PHP, Java (1 year), Spring (1 year), Hibernate (1 year), NodeJS (1 year), MongoDB (1 year), MySQL, TypeScript,, HTML 5, Bootstrap, RabbitMQ, Laravel, Agile, Kanban, Git, RESTful API, Web Services, Postman, Jquery Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/romulo-costa-dev