Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Web Developer Boston, MA A full stack web developer doing front end in JS and Razor/CSS and business logic in .NET for a reporting tool at Vermont Information Processing. I started this position in October of 2018, and have since taken ownership of the project's UI and front end logic.    I learned JavaScript programming in 2018 from a boot camp, and soon afterwards picked up C# and SQL on my own time. I aim to pick up python next.    I have worked an assortment of positions in my career. I solved client IT problems for four years as a team lead for the University of Vermont's Techteam while earning bachelors degrees in wildlife biology and psychology. Since graduation I have tracked tortoises in the Mojave desert, taught curious learners of all ages at an outdoor education center in Bethlehem, New York, and researched raccoons around Burlington's urban landscape. I enjoyed the natural resources field but after making the jump to technology my professional life has never been better. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Vermont Information Processing - Colchester, VT October 2018 to Present -Maintain and extend the front end, business logic, and data access layers of a production reporting tool using C#, jQuery, Ajax, SQL and other technologies.  -Successful restructure of css architecture and major UI elements.  -Expanded an underused team wiki that is now being used by the whole team for project knowledge sharing. Web Developer Green Up Vermont - Burlington, VT June 2018 to August 2018 While at the Burlington Code Academy, I got in contact with Green Up Vermont to ask about their needs. In under a month, I assembled a volunteer team of classmates and used the agile process to develop a web app to their specifications. The web app is expected to go live and be public facing by the end of the month. Associate Trainer Panera Bread - Burlington, VT February 2018 to May 2018 - Trained new hires in multiple production positions.  - Performed thrice daily upkeep and preparedness checks to ensure smooth cafe operations. Wildlife Specialist Contractor USDA, NY State Dept of Environmental Conservation - Multiple Locations July 2015 to December 2017 - Organizations served include USDA, NY State Dept of Environmental Conservation, Penn State.  - While working for the USDA I resolved a work conflict between myself and a co-worker by addressing it directly. This allowed us to work together effectively when we had not been before.  - Collected wildlife data including location, physiology, health, and behavior for research projects about desert tortoise migration and rabies vector species home ranges.  - Transformed geographic data into a usable format and presented it to an off-site project manager for use in scientific research.  - Researched and presented talks on complex scientific topics to the general public.  - Researched and presented a review of emerging technologies and their applications to education in partnership with a local library to a group of professional educators. Line Associate Panera Bread - Burlington, VT February 2017 to June 2017 - Made food to order and responded to customer inquiries. Lead IT Support Technician University of Vermont - Burlington, VT August 2014 to May 2015 - Supervised teams of up to 4 other technicians assisting clients with technical issues on the phone and in person. IT Support Technician University of Vermont - Burlington, VT January 2011 to May 2014 - Responded to client calls to resolve technical issues.  - Added to and maintained database of issues and support notes.  - Managing and completing support tickets.  - Communicating technical concepts to clients who are not tech-savvy. Education Full Stack Web Development Burlington Code Academy - Burlington, VT June 2018 to August 2018 B.S. in Wildlife Biology University of Vermont August 2011 to May 2015 Skills CSS, Customer Relations, Agile, Javascript, HTML 5, Public Speaking, Educator, Data Collection, MongoDB, JQuery, React.js, C, HTML5, C#, Bootstrap, Front End, SQL Links http://linkedin.com/in/cisaacgriffin http://cisaacgriffin.com https://github.com/deadlion2ttip Awards Magna Cum Laude 2015-05 From the University of Vermont's Rubenstein School of Environment and Natural Resources Magna Cum Laude 2015-05 From the University of Vermont's College of Arts and Sciences. UVM Wildlife and Fisheries Biology Achievement Award 2015-05 For the highest GPA in my major of my graduating class.