Senior UI Developer Senior UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior UI Developer - Technik Inc Arlington, VA • 9+ years of work experience as a Front-End/UI Developer.  • Worked on a range of projects using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Ajax, Json, React JS, Node JS, Angular JS, ES5/ES6.  • Experience in designing websites with W3C standards using HTML5, CSS3 to get best cross-browser user experience.  • Expertise in React JS framework to develop SPA.  • Proficient in Babel compiler and Webpack.  • Experience working with Angular JS to develop single page applications along with dynamic web applications.  • Hands on experience in React JS - Redux architecture.  • Excellent understanding of DOM.  • Handled all aspects of the UI development including designing, testing/debugging, and deploying.  • Experience in developing web pages in Responsive Design using Bootstrap.  • Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browser and servers.  • Used jQuery to make the HTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamic web pages on the client side.  • Good Knowledge on React, Web Pack, ES6, and REDUX.  • Industry experience in various IDEs like Web storm, Notepad++, Microsoft Visual Studio Code, Brackets, Atom, Sublime Text.  • Expertise in designing and developing user experiences for Web Applications using Web Authoring tools such as Adobe Dreamweaver CS6, Adobe Illustrator CS6, Adobe Photoshop CS6 and Adobe Flash CS6.  • High level of expertise in CSS pixel-level layout, Consistency with browsers, Version and Platform Independence.  • Solid understanding of OOP concepts.  • Experience working on RESTFUL Web Services and Implementing RESTFUL APIs.  • Designed and added custom UI themes to web page using SASS CSS pre-processor instead of inline-styles or less.  • Expertise in version control tools like GIT, SVN and TFS to manage and control software development.  • Experience in using Package Managers like NPM and Bower and good command in using Task managers like Grunt, Gulp and Brunch.  • Experienced in fast paced Agile development environment and methodologies including Test Driven Development and Scrum with online tools like JIRA.  • Strong communication, collaboration & team building skills with proficiency in grasping new technical concepts quickly.  • Self-starter, inclined to learn new technologies and a good team player with good communication, organizational and interpersonal skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior UI Developer Technik Inc - Arlington, VA September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Working on a migration project in TDD environment. [Angular JS to React JS]  • Convert designs and business requirements into high quality code.  • Develop and test re-usable React components for Verizon wireless Website for future use.  • Optimizing components for maximum performance across a vast array of web-capable devices and browsers.  • Handle accessibility requirements throughout the website as per the WCAG guidelines.  • Work with scrum master and meet deadlines for bug fixes using JIRA tool.  • Update existing applications to meet the security and functionality standards.  • Responsible for developing and maintaining responsiveness of the website across mobile, desktop and tablets.  • Responsible for testing the website for cross-browser compatibility including IE, Firefox, Safari and Chrome.  • Work with back-end team and co-ordinate in implementing Restful APIs.  • Used Middleware, Redux-Thunk in application to retrieve data from Back-End and to also perform RESTFUL services.  • Extensively used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to Gitlab/Bitbucket.    Environment: HTML 5, CSS3, Sass, Less, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Ajax, React JS, Redux, Flux, Node JS, JSON, Git hub, Restful API, Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, XML, Adobe Dreamweaver. UI Developer Assurant Solutions - Wayne, PA August 2016 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for designing dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML 5.0, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, React JS, JSON, AJAX.  • Used Babel an ECMA Script 6 to ECMA Script 5 compiler which allows using ES6 features in project and then compiles ES5 to use in production.  • Implemented a large part of the UI dynamic functionalities using CSS, jQuery UI, Typescript, and HTML.  • Used High Charts, D3JS and Ext JS4 for charting data and for supporting a wide array of browsers.  • Built dynamic web pages with Angular 2.0 with styling supported by Twitter Bootstrap for creating Responsive Websites.  • Developed components using React and all the advanced methods Functions in developing.  • Worked with React JS to build bootstrap components for UI web objects. Linked with REST API for rendering data trough virtual DOM.  • Experience working on CSS Preprocessors likes LESS along with JavaScript task runners like Grunt.  • Responsive web design (RWD) is developed using frameworks like Angular JS and MVC frameworks and Bootstrap.  • Worked with UX Designers to translate visual concepts into functional online experiences, micro sites, and other digital content delivery.  • Developed single application to render dynamically based on the JSON from the Node JS server.  • Developed various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux library.  • React JS which allowed us to render pages on both the client and server using the same codebase.  • Used React JS for adding client-side interface for JavaScript templating and function binding.  • Written and modified the technical documents.  • Redux-Saga used to make application side effects easier to manage, more efficient to execute, simple to test, and better at handling failures.  • Used JIRA for tracking issues reported by testing team.    ENVIRONMENT: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, JSON, AJAX, React.js, Angular.js, Node JS, LESS, Grunt, Jasmine, GIT. Senior UI Developer Verizon Wireless - Lake Mary, FL July 2014 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop and test HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery and React.JS that meets accessibility and web browser standards for website.  • Responsible for front-end UI design using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, jQuery plugins.  • Designed CSS templates for use in all pages on the website working with CSS Background, positioning, text, border, margin, padding, and table.  • Applied optimization techniques to reduce page size and load times to enhance user experience.  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux for SPA development.  • Implemented React JS code to handle cross browser compatibility issues in Firefox, IE 7, 8, 9, Safari and Google Chrome.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  • Worked on React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Worked on responsive design and developed responsive websites that could be served to desktop, tablets and mobile users using React.js.  • Maintained states in the stores and dispatched the actions using Redux.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using React-Draggable.  • Worked closely with the Back-End team to display data using the Custom Components, library Components, and Redux.  • Worked with Passport and JSON web tokens for authentication and authorization security configurations using Node.js.  • Worked with NPM commands and using package.json for managing dependencies and dev dependencies of Node JS applications.  • Used Middleware, Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Back-End and to also perform RESTFUL services.  • Called the Restful web services calls for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods.  • Used React flux to polish the data and for single directional flow.  • Developed the application logos and images by using Adobe Photoshop CS6 and Illustrator.  • Used Object Oriented Programming concepts to develop UI components that could be reused across the Web Application.  • Extensively used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.  • Interacted with Testing Team, Scrum Masters and Business Analysts for fixing of Issues.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS, Node JS and React JS, Redux, Bootstrap, JSON. Web Developer Fiserv - Alpharetta, GA June 2012 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed page layouts, navigation and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  • Web design and development, application development using HTML, JavaScript and Dreamweaver.  • Integrated the Java code (API) in JSP pages.  • Responsible for ensuring the pattern consistency across all pages.  • Applied J-Query scripts for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Used jQuery plug-ins for Drag and Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Involved in writing jQuery-based AJAX requests using jQuery. Get (URL, data, callback, type) or jQuery. AJAX (options) and jQuery. Post (URL, data, callback, type).  • Responsible for design and development of the web pages from mock- ups.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards  • Created web pages which are informative and yet very neat and interesting to look at.  • Designed flash plugins for including different functionalities and content.  • Involved with bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues with JavaScript and jQuery  Environment: HTML/ CSS/CSS3, Angular JS (1.x), JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Dreamweaver. Web Developer Conduent - Austin, TX May 2010 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developed Page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  • Developed web presentation layer using HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  • Development the whole application module using technologies such as JavaScript, jQuery and more.  • Wrote a combination of jQuery plug-ins, as well as completely custom JavaScript to build a bleeding-edge, AJAX-driven user interface.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using, AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS.  • Responsible for the design of web applications right from the conceptualization stage to its implementation and maintenance.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  • Designed the table less web applications using CSS as per W3C standards.  • Worked closely with SQA team in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSP, AJAX, JSON, XML, SVN. Education Bachelor's Skills Visual studio, C++, Javascript, Bootstrap, Redux