Senior Full Stack Developer Senior Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Full Stack Developer - BYTE, INC Homosassa, FL SKILLS SUMMARY    Web Design/Graphic Arts    Full Stack Web Developer UI/UX Designer Logo Design    Brand Identity and Market Frontend Development    Programming/Scripting    Backend Web Development Restful API Development Work Experience Senior Full Stack Developer BYTE, INC - Homosassa, FL October 2016 to Present Homosassa, FL - October 2016 to Current  Fullstack Web Development, Restful API Development, Graphic Design, Software Engineering, Server Administration    ? Delivered production ready graphics in HTML and CSS for all marketing assets.  ? Generated computer graphics and page-layout software, graphic elements and photography.  ? Created aesthetically-pleasing advertisements that complemented the products.  ? Designed user interface, tools and web pages to meet branding guidelines and web best practices.  ? Troubleshot page performance issues, SEO performance code incompatibilities and web imagery problems.  ? Created user interface design style guide in support of interactive game products.  ? Designed wireframes and compositions for new web projects.  ? Created a production ready restful API Web Developer ProxyBite, LLC - Littleton, CO May 2012 to 2015 Translated complex concepts and data into compelling visuals for media outreach.  ? Designed new on-brand visual elements to effectively convey concepts and messaging.  ? Maintained consistent use of graphic imagery in materials and other marketing outreach.  ? Formatted text and graphics for blog posts, newsletters and other materials.  ? Collaborated with vendors to ensure style consistency with other marketing materials.  ? Worked with internal clients to determine strategy and design for annual marketing campaigns.  ? Generated new ideas with limited direction and varied internal client needs.  ? Presented projects to internal clients.  ? Generated computer graphics and page-layout software, graphic elements and photography.  ? Edited existing PowerPoint slides to enhance the corporate message.  ? Collaborated with engineering on various web, mobile and tablet application interfaces.  ? Designed advertisements, tradeshow banners and signage from concept through completion.  ? Delivered production ready graphics in HTML and CSS for all marketing assets.  ? Trained designers on computer graphic design programs such as Quark Xpress, Adobe Illustrator and Adobe Photoshop. Education High school or equivalent Columbine High School High School - Littleton, CO 2017 Skills Web design, Api, Scripting, Ui, Ux, Server, Angular, Java, Nodejs, Jquery, Node, React, Javascript Links https://ello.co/rawtechnique https://mbps.io Additional Information ? 5 years' experience in Logo and Brand Design  ? 9 years' experience in UI/UX Design, and Full Stack Web Development  ? 8 years' experience with Node.JS and Javascript  ? 4 years' experience with Express, Meteor, React, and Handlebars  ? 2 years' experience with, Vue, Polymer, and Angular  ? 3 years' experience with Pug and Jade  ? 4 years 'experience with PHP and Laravel  ? 2 years' experience with Ruby on Rails and Python  ? 1 year experience with Docker, Kubernetes and Rancher  ? 3 years' experience with DNS, Load Balancing, and Web Server networking  ? 3 years' experience with Linux/UNIX administration  ? Physical server, desktop, and laptop configuration (OS, CPU, RAM, Hard Drive)  ? Customer account administration and maintenance  ? Marketing and Advertising  ? Superb eye for detail  ? Excellent communication skills