Certified Expert WordPress Developer Certified Expert WordPress <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web designer and front-end developer (8 years experience) Sandpoint, ID I am currently a self-employed, multi-disiplinary designer and front-end developer with 8+ years experience. I like to use the term "full-stack designer".    I spend most of my time planning, organizing, designing, and developing custom WordPress themes from start to finish with non-profits and small to mid-sized businesses.    https://losslesscreativestudio.com  https://dribbble.com/milesdfonda  https://codepen.io/milesdfonda Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Certified Expert WordPress Developer Codeable January 2016 to Present Development of WordPress websites, theme modifications and tweaks through a tasked-based system. Interaction with a large community of expert developers and clients from around the world. Full-stack designer Lossless Creative Studio January 2011 to Present Self-employed creating custom-designed WordPress websites, graphic design, and digital illustration. Happiness Hero Codeable November 2018 to May 2019 Remote support role as part of the in-house support team. Engaging with clients to resolve support issues, onboard new customers, interview and manage platform contractors. My job is to provide high-end customer service to ensure Codeable is growing and everyone is happy. Visual Designer & Lead Web Developer Little Box Creative April 2011 to January 2017 Responsible to take lead on all web-related tasks including review of internal processes, UX research, maintenance of existing sites, new site development, creation of specifications/architectural documents for proposals, and wire-frames. Other responsibilities include illustration and creating designs for websites, landing pages, web based apps, and print-based collateral. There is a high level of participation with clients and team members in the planning, design, and development processes while managing budgeted hours and tight deadlines. Report directly to the Creative Director and Executive staff. Multimedia & Web Designer Dyrection Studios September 2010 to August 2015 Maintenance, creation, and editing of websites using various content management systems such as WordPress, Joomla, and proprietary CMS. Education Bachelor's in Communication Design State University of New York at Buffalo 2006 to 2010 Skills Wordpress, PHP, Website, Javascript, HTML5, CSS3, Illustrator, Indesign, Photoshop, Adobe XD, Budget Management, Front End Design, Git, JQuery, Logo Design, Responsive Design, SASS, Web Design, Web Development, WordPress theme development Links http://@milesdfonda