UI Developer/Full Stack Web Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Full Stack <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer/Full Stack Web Developer Radnor, PA ? 6 + years of experience in Full Stack web application development and UI Development.  ? Skilled in MEAN (MongoDB, ExpressJs, AngularJs, NodeJs) technologies and Ruby on Rails web application framework.  ? Proficient in JavaScript (both front-end and backend scripting).  ? Good Understanding of concepts of ES6 design patterns and data structures.  ? Developed responsive and dynamic user interface with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript including ES6, jQuery, Ajax and Bootstrap.  ? Thorough working knowledge of Model-View-View-Model (MVVM) pattern in designing and developing modern Single Page Applications (SPA) in Angular Js, including angular services, factories, filters, routing, and watch digest.  ? Experience with React Js classes and components.  ? Proficient in fetching data from Web services with SOAP and RESTful API via XML/JSON response and updating the HTML pages.  ? Knowledge and experience of CSS3 preprocessors such as SASS.  ? Stronghold in database design using SQL and NoSQL languages. Experience with most mainstream databases including PostgreSQL, SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL and NoSQL databases such as Mongo DB, including Mongoose for building schemas.  ? Skilled in using database tuning techniques to write effective queries that optimize the use of resources.  ? Equipped with Ruby knowledge for developing Ruby on Rails Full Stack applications with database access using Active Record (Object Relational Mapping language).  ? Integrated conventional front-end technologies with data visualization using D3 Js and Angular Fusion Chart to build data driven web documents.  ? Deep understanding of Python. Built data analysis tools for geospatial analysis of data using Python and its statistical and geospatial libraries.  ? Maintained code versions with Github and utilized JIRA for bug tracking and project management.  ? Well versed with working in software development methodologies like Waterfall, Agile development and Rapid Application Development.  ? Involved in discussions of business goals' translation to application design.  ? Familiarity with all stages of the development lifecycle, including requirement analysis, design, development, testing, and maintenance. Work Experience UI Developer/Full Stack Web Developer Moven Bank - Radnor, PA December 2015 to Present Project Name: Spending Insights  This project has two modules: 1) Spending categories and 2) Spending Alert.  The module 'Spending Alert' is a smart algorithm in Moven Bank's mobile app. Its purpose is to understand the spending behavior of its users from their history transactions and to alert them in real time when they spend more than the usual individual and cumulative transaction amount in a month. The initial point of the project is 'Spending categories' with Ruby on Rails as backend. It informs the customers about their average (typical trend learnt from history transactions) and current amount for every spending category (Groceries rent, entertainment and travel etc) by that time in month.  Responsibilities:  • Adapted Model-View-View-Model (MVVM) pattern for developing the UI of the application by Single Page Application (SPA) technology of Angular Js  • Created components using React Js  • Built web pages using responsive web technologies (Bootstrap Js, CSS3, D3 Js, HTML5)  • Implemented the module 'Spending Alert' using Node Js as backend and Express Js as a middleware and MongoDB as a data client  • Implemented the module 'Spending trend with categories' using MVC framework Ruby on Rails as backend and PostgreSQL as data client  • Created interactive graphs using D3 Js to help the customers understand their spending insights but utilizing the available mobile screen space  • Consumed the data fetched from Web services via JSON/XML response using RESTful services web API  • Utilized database tuning techniques to improve data I/O efficiency  • Using WebStorm IDE made debugging the JavaScript code time saving.  • Translated and compared the Business goals to the application design.  • Participated in all stages of the development lifecycle discussions including requirement analysis, algorithm design and analysis, development, implementation, and maintenance  • Used Microsoft Visio for a better algorithm analysis and to supplement the continuous improvement process of the algorithm  • Had a critical role in reviewing the application design and mock-ups  • Wrote Database Migration Scripts and also involved in using Active Resources, Fixtures, Action View and Action Controller in Rails framework.  • Participated in pair code reviews  • Maintained the code using Github and used JIRA for project management.  Environment: Node Js, Express Js, Angular Js, React Js, Bootstrap Js, Ruby on Rails, Active Record, REST API, JSON, D3 Js, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, Github, JIRA, WebStorm IDE, Microsoft Visio, HTML, CSS3, JavaScript. Full Stack Developer Priceline.com - New York, NY November 2014 to November 2015 Project Name: Geospatial Traffic Analysis and Implementation  This project is an internal application through which the employees manage the bookings and create reports at the end of the transaction. Main focus was to make the application respond faster to the internal requests by the employees. Search Engine Optimization was the key feature supporting the backend of the application. It is useful to search and compare the prices and other insights from across the wide range of retailers available. This also includes geospatial analysis of transaction data and submitting reports to the marketing team and executive team.  Responsibilities:  • Developed the application in API-Centric Architecture by extensively using MEAN Stack technologies, which contains MongoDB, Express Js, Angular Js and Node Js  • Collaborated with data analysis team to analyze the transaction traffic density  • Used Matplotlib, GDAL, OGR, Folium and Basemap libraries of Python to extract and manipulate geospatial data.  • Created frontend using Angular Js, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS3, SASS and JavaScript  • Catered a range of devices by developing a responsive interface for the application using HTML5, CSS3, ES6 JavaScript, Bootstrap Js and Angular Js  • Configured the server-side routing using Express Js to consume JSON data from RESTful Service  • Angular Js services and factories were exploited to create modular and loosely coupled application architecture with lightweight API routing.  • Used SASS to write a DRY and maintainable CSS code.  • Optimized the server load by doing partial validations and user authentication by using Angular Js validations  • Used PostgreSQL as the database for some modules of the application  • Gathered requirements and business logic from Business Analysts and coordinated with the development team to design fit the algorithm by continuous brainstorming on finding a more technically improved solution.  • Utilized the compatibility of Visual Studio Code, its extensions and Typings node module to write an effort free and error free code  • Tested the browser code using Karma framework and server side code with Mocha  • Simulated with the principles of Agile Software Development to be able to respond to any unpredictability through incremental feedback  Environment: JavaScript ES6, Angular Js, React Js, MongoDB, Node Js, Express, Python, JSON, SASS, LESS, MySQL, D3 Js, Jasmine, Karma, GIT, RESTful Web Service, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery. UI Developer Twiz Infotech January 2013 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Working as a UI Developer, assisted the team in developing Web-based applications and managed in developing of Account landing page, Account summary/overview, Login page.  • Developed the UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Angular, JSON, jQuery, Ajax  • Participated in writing application level code to interact with RESTful API, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML  • Used Bootstrap UI to create drop-down menus, forms and modal effects for styling the webpage such as creating a modal effect to display a form, which is need to be filled in order to modify user's information.  • Used Oracle and SQL Server as the data clients based on the legacy code of the module being implemented for the bank.  • Implemented Client Side Validation in different modules by using Angular Form Validation and HTML5  • Worked in the Agile/Scrum development environment with frequently changing requirements and actively participated in scrum meetings and reviews.  Environment: HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, XML, Angular JS, Oracle, SQL Server, Node Js, Agile methodology, RESTful web service. UI Developer Rockman Industries, Hero Motor Corp April 2011 to December 2012 Project Name: Order Warden  Hero Motor Corp. is an auto parts manufacturing company, which operates its own order management system. The IT Department is responsible for developing and maintaining the internal orders in the form of a fetching, manufacturing and delivery tracking system.  The project is responsible for the management of orders, mainly the order receiving, notifying the client about the approval or rejection by the company, production process management and tracking the delivery of the order.  Responsibilities:  • Designed web pages using Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript, and HTML  • Involved in preparing Approach and Effort Estimation Visual Representation documents  • Handled backend calls using JAVA technologies  • Participated in daily and weekly scrums  • Built reports for feasibility study and designed the Mock-ups.  Environment: HTML4, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap and JSON. Education Bachelors in Information Technology Punjab Technical University Skills BOOTSTRAP (6 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), HTML5 (4 years), jQuery (4 years), WEB SERVICES (3 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  • Backend: Node.Js, Express.Js, Ruby on Rails and Python.  • Front End: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript (ES6), Angular Js, React Js, Bootstrap, JQuery, and D3 Js.  • Web Services: RESTful, SOAP  • Database: Oracle, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, SQL Server and MySQL.  • Testing: Jasmine and Karma.Object Oriented: Python, Ruby, JAVA and JavaScript.  • Operating System: Mac, Linux, and Windows.  • Platforms: Heroku.  • Tools: Microsoft Visio, JIRA, Visual Studio Code, WebStorm.