Front end developer/Queue Manager Front end <span class="hl">developer</span>/Queue Manager Front end developer/Queue Manager - Polycom Inc Austin, TX • 16 years' experience in the field of web design and development.  • Extensive experience designing and maintaining responsive ecommerce sites including  • Experienced in mobile first responsive design.  • Strong Web Content Management experience with Adobe AEM/CQ5, implementing full cycle AEM projects.  • Highly motivated, reliable analytical problem solver and troubleshooter with strong attention to detail.  • Excellent liaison skills between engineering and other business teams.  • Excellent analytical and communication skills with capability to handle new technologies. Work Experience Front end developer/Queue Manager Polycom Inc March 2018 to Present • Created, updated, and published web content on Adobe AEM(CMS) using HTML/CSS  • Edited and coded new landing pages and forms while conforming to corporate branding guidelines  • Queue Management of offshore team of AEM developers and producers and led daily stand-up calls, triaging and daily prioritization.  • Main web producer in the US, while off-shore team was unavailable responsible for all updates and urgent changes during pacific hours.  • Collaborated with off-shore team and inhouse Web marketing managers on project requirements recommending visually pleasing and well-functioning page layouts.  • Worked on major launches from start to deployment, created a detailed manifest of all assets and pages, for multiple locales.  • Scheduled meetings with web marketing managers, to review unclear tickets, monitored daily group emails to ensure nothing was missed and updated ticket notes accordingly.  • Worked independently, while handling multiple responsibilities, in a fast-paced environment.  • Provided feedback to business partners regarding placement of banners, content on the website to ensure a great User Experience.  • Updated SEO all over the site.  • Interviewed, trained, and mentored new staff members.  • Utilized: CMS AEM 6.1, HTML, CSS. Web Producer/Front-end developer Charles Schwab & Co. Inc July 2016 to July 2017 • Updated content for Schwab.com and multiple other customer facing websites, within the web publishing team.  • Managed multiple projects, ensuring all projects were completed and launched on time.  • Identified process gaps and converted banners from a quirky CMS template to HTML code. Manually coded and launched over 100 dynamic spotlight banners.  • Trained the team and built documentation related to creating spotlight banners to be used as a reference.  • Collaborated closely with development, and marketing to ensure consistency throughout the site by following brand image and quality standards. Senior Web Producer Palo Alto Networks - Santa Clara, CA May 2015 to December 2015 • Global web team main producer for all product launches, from creation to launch, took part in the entire process including scrum meetings with stakeholders/ web marketing.  • Collaborated with cross-functional teams on successful redesign/launch of multiple product pages monthly.  • Created and launched responsive stand-alone micro sites, utilized Bootstrap.  • Was involved in a huge site migration of content. Migrated over 600 pages and tested.  • Performed regression testing on new site migrating to the Adobe CQ6 CMS.  • Worked with business stakeholders and engineers to create, test, and deploy site features.  • Designed email templates, coded forms and success pages with Eloqua.  • Trained new hires in web production processes.  • Worked closely with cross functional teams such as marketing operations and field marketing to greatly improve the customer user experience on our website.  • Utilized Dreamweaver CC, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Adobe CQ5 CMS, Cloudwords, Brightcove, Zendesk. Senior UX Designer Apple Inc - Cupertino, CA May 2013 to July 2014 • Designed wireframes and user flow diagrams, for iPhone and iPad for Global Business Intelligence this involved getting information from existing business analytics web Application and redesigning for mobile devices, utilized omnigraffle.  • Designed elegant mockups that clearly communicate the interactive experience.  • Led design exercises with the business team to identify opportunities to improve the designs of an existing web application.  • Utilized feedback from business to create multiple design explorations and iterations using Photoshop.  • Involved in solving nuance user experience problems from prior web app, to creating dashboards that were not only intuitive, but also modern and elegant. VMware - Palo Alto, CA November 2011 to November 2012 Web Producer  • Provided hands-on development of websites and other web-based projects.  • Exhibited strong project management skills, with the ability to develop comprehensive project plans, and managed multiple projects concurrently.  • Provided status reports, and proactively and clearly communicated project issues and resolution to internal stakeholders and with the design team  • Built basic mobile Websites using HTML, CSS and AEM Content Management Systems  • Provided quality assurance of all web content deliverables to ensure that they adhered to the company's high standards.  • Proactively created training documents for new software where there were gaps. Web designer/ developer Life Technologies - Foster City, CA July 2010 to July 2011 • Created and launched new promotion pages for both Appliedbiosystems.com and Invitrogen.com  • Created web banners to increase awareness of upcoming business promotions.  • Created forms for Invitrogen using Web Content Management System (CMS) CQ5  • Accountable for ensuring that the look and feel of both sites is consistent and accurately represented.  • Developed, modified and published day-to-day content and assets using CQ5/AEM CMS.  • Utilized Adobe Photoshop CS, HTML, Dreamweaver 8, CSS, JavaScript, Illustrator CS, CQ5. Apple Inc - Cupertino, CA April 2008 to July 2008 Web Producer  • Insured that all detailed content on iPhone, iPod, iTunes, hardware and software web pages were accurate and of high quality.  • Helped with the globalization effort - specifically maintaining consistency throughout the different languages.  • Tested, debugged and validated content in staging environment.  • Oversaw quality assurance of finished websites including the validation of web forms and links. Performed web analytics with Omniture.  • Created new pages within the support website for iPhone, iPod, iTunes, hardware and software web pages while adhering to strict company guidelines. Utilized BBEDIT.  • Read through emails from customers coming to support and routed to responsible teams. UI Designer CDC Software - Campbell, CA January 2007 to February 2008 • Designed Login backgrounds, installation screens, User Manual Covers, Logo's, Icons with Photoshop, updated HTML and CSS, for Pivotal CRM on Demand an enterprise database.  • Led visual design throughout the product lifecycle, from conceptualization to web application launch.  • Presented UI/UX prototypes to department leads and stake holders.  • Designed with photoshop and developed with HTML/CSS web templates from scratch.  • Provided custom web Design and development for the marketing team.  • Developed style guides, wireframes and design prototypes.  • Involved in maintenance of CSS/HTML for database using Visual Basic.  • Created visual mockups for a wide range of offline and online projects including case studies, email blasts and whitepapers, or marketing and translated designs into code Web Designer Symantec Corp - Cupertino, CA January 2006 to December 2006 • Created and maintained landing pages for the SMB and ENT acquisition stores using HTML and CSS.  • Designed promotional material such as banners with Photoshop, following the style guide and ecommerce requirements.  • Development of static web pages, landing pages, category landing pages using content management system.  • Launched 2007 products on all OEM and partner sites in multiple languages.  • Worked closely with OEM and Partner managers to ensure that projects were delivered to partners (Adobe, Yahoo, Google, IBM, HP, Dell, Vanguard global stores in multiple languages) in a timely and efficient manner. Web Technologist Myplay Inc August 2000 to April 2001 • Coded HTML, CSS and JavaScript for email templates for myplay's personalized E-mail campaign. This involved working closely with stakeholders to get the content, images and links.  • Designed and developed mockups for other In-house projects. Largely utilized HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Photoshop.  • Oversaw production, maintenance, updates, Quality Assurance and of the myplay website. Education Bachelor of Fine Arts in Digital Media San Jose State University 2005 Skills Javascript, Git