Web UI developer <span class="hl">Web</span> UI <span class="hl">developer</span> Web UI developer - Global Payment Fresno • Java Web Developer with 5 years of extensive experience in designing User Interface applications and integration of highly transactional and scalable applications using HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSP, AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Expert knowledge of the UI design process and deliverables throughout the development lifecycle.  • Diverse experience in the field of Web Application Development using HTML 4.0/5, CSS (2/3), XHTML, JavaScript, DHTML, JQuery, JSP, AJAX, XML JSON, ASP, Backbone.js, node.js and Ext.js.  • Experience in designing websites with W3C standards using HTML4/5, CSS2/3 to get best cross-browser user experience for long-term user retention and engagement.  • Good knowledge of latest version of object oriented JavaScript Libraries like Angular.js, Node.js, Require.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Ext JS, Responsive Design and Dojo toolkit.  • Experience in Web 2.0 applications like blog maintenance, Library Management, social networking using HTML, DHTML, JavaScript.  • Extensive knowledge-based in JavaScript, especially using jQuery and AJAX driven web applications. Strong experience in Client Side designing and validations using HTML, DHTML and JavaScript.  • Professional in creating Templates, Mockups and Prototypes, Web Interfaces, Layouts and Flow of Future Pages.  • Experience in Cross browser compatibility testing and intellectual challenges in User Experience (UX), Responsive Web Design and Bootstrap.  • Experienced in using Front End editors like Dreamweaver, Espresso, Text Mate, Sublime Text2 and Microsoft Expression Web.  • Expertise in working with the JavaScript, prototype JS and various MVC JavaScript frameworks backbone.js and node.js.  • Significant experience in web development tools like APTANA STUDIO, Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Photoshop, Flash, Illustrator, Spring Tool Suite, Eclipse, Notepad++ and Firebug.  • Working experience on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  • Working knowledge of Web protocols and standards (HTTP HTML/XHTML/XHTML-MP, Web Forms, XML, XML parsers).  • Experience working with testing tools like Firebug, Firebug Lite, Chrome or safari web inspectors and IE Developer Toolbar.  • Experience in software configuration management using Rational ClearCase, CVS, SVN and PVCS.  • Experience using database systems SQL, MySQL, Oracle and supporting technologies like Hibernate.  • Experienced in working in AGILE based development environment and participating in Scrum sessions.  • Strong communication, collaboration & team building skills with proficiency in grasping new technical concepts quickly.  • Self-starter always inclined to learn new technologies and Team Player with very good communication, organizational and interpersonal skills. Work Experience Web UI developer Global Payment - Fresno, CA, US January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Created proof-of-concept using responsive web design, Angular4, HTML5 and Bootstrap4.  • Optimized the performance of application using Angular4 Lazy Loading and Ahead of Time Compilation.  • Written RXJS type of programming using rxjs observables and rxjs operators like map and filter. Developed responsive web design for employees'/customer access using HTML5, CSS3, Angular4, Bootstrap4 and XML.  • Involved in developing applications using Angular 4, Bootstrap like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, Combo-Box and Button etc.  • Experience in developing code using C#, JavaScript, Angular 4.  • Involved in Web API and MVC controller's development.  • Involved in fixing the flunk issues in Web API and MVC.  • Developed the Angular components using Typescript and ES6 Helpful operators.  • Created Single Page Application with the help of Angular4 Router Module and used template routing for bread crumb.  • Used TFS to track the user stories and bugs and updated on daily basis.  • Used Angular CLI to generate components, services, filters and compiled in different environments.  • Used Angular 4 Reactive forms to implement complex forms and performed the validations using Form Builder.  • Created accordions, scroll Spy using Bootstrap4 and used font-awesome icons to give a good look to the user.  • Participated in the code reviews with other developers and improved the code quality of the code based on the review comments.  • Utilized agile methodology using internal process SCRUM for the application development.  • Interacted with business users to gather business specs and prepared design docs (use cases, sequence diagrams) using UML  • Created the shared service for the communication between different components and cross component interaction.  • Worked in Agile Scrum Methodology to provide more efficiently work and higher quality.  • Created multiple Typescript modules to manage written codes in angular project.  • Tested pages for cross-browser compatibility for Safari, Chrome, Firefox and IE by cross browser hacks and requirements.  • Responsible for the entire Sprint stories to be completed within the time frame and for delivering the demo at the end of each sprint to Product Owner and Project Manager.    Environment: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, SASS, Bootstrap4, Typescript, Angular4, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Responsive Web Design, Gulp, Bower, NPM, WebApi, NodeJS MVC, visual Studio 2015. Web/UI/Front End Developer Accenture - Chandigarh, HARYANA, IN September 2013 to November 2017 Responsibilities:  • Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement Specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their perspective.  • Worked in all the modules of the application which involved front-end presentation logic developed using Tiles, JSP and JavaScript.  • Designed and implemented the User Interface using JavaScript, HTML5, XHTML, XML, CSS3, JSP, AJAX and MySQL.  • Used JSP, Servlets, and HTML to create web interfaces. Developed Java Beans and used custom tag libraries for embedding dynamic into JSP pages.  • Involved in developing payment processing using the new available JavaScript Angular.js, Node.js using MVC architecture.  • Used the Node.js and Backbone.js MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications.  • Used advanced level of HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts (table less layout).  • Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash, Dreamweaver and Photoshop.  • Used JQuery plugins auto complete, validation, drag and drop and more exceptionally.  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Involved in integrating the Java code (API) in JSP Pages.  • Debugged the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox and IE Developer Tool bar for IE.  • Used AJAX extensively to implement front end /user interface features in the application.  • Used SOAP, JAXB, JAXP, XML/XSLT and WSDL for developing Web Services.  • Worked closely with QA team and fixed QA bugs as well as production issues with a quick turnaround time.  • Focused on Test Driven Development thereby creating detailed Junit tests for every single piece of functionality before actually writing the functionality.  • Involved in using CVS for project management and version management.  • Developed Functional Requirement Document based on users' requirement.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Illustrator, MVC, AJAX, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Node.js, Require.js, CVS, Web services, XML, XSLT, Junit, TDD, Oracle, Windows. Education bachelor's in electronics and communication in electronics Punjab technical university 2014 Skills HTML (5 years), JAVASCRIPT (5 years), XML (5 years), AJAX (5 years), HTML5 (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILL SET:    Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, DHTML, XML, XHTML, XSLT, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, Apache, ASP, Responsive Design  JavaScript Libraries Ext JS, Angular.js, Require.js, Bootstrap, Backbone.js, Node.js  IDE's and Tools Eclipse IDE, NetBeans, Dreamweaver, Firebug, Developer Tools, EditPlus, JSfiddle, Webstrom, Tatastrom, Sublimetext  Version Control System VSS, SVN, CVS, GIT  Publishing Tools Adobe PageMaker, MS Office  Debugging Tools Firebug, BugZilla  Operating Systems Windows, Mac OS, UNIX/LINUX