Microsoft Office 365 Support Engineer Microsoft Office 365 Support Engineer Aspiring Web Developer passionate about Computer Science Deerfield Beach, FL I am a highly energetic, innovative, creative, and proven team player dedicated to achieving goals. Accomplished Bachelor’s in Computer Science with over three years of experience in diverse areas in that field of expertise. Strong analysis skills that include insight on successfully applying technological solutions and best practices to resolve technology issues, while improving overall efficiency. Knowledge of web programming languages such as HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, among others. Also, with knowledge of database systems, desktop and web applications, computer configuration, troubleshooting, and self-motivated.     I am looking to be part of a growing organization where I can utilize my knowledge and abilities to demonstrate my commitment and continue to learn and grow professionally. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Microsoft Office 365 Support Engineer Teleperformance June 2019 to Present Helping customers to troubleshoot issues with Microsoft Office 365 services, taking ownership of customer's issues reported. Research, diagnose,  troubleshoot, and find accurate solutions to bring problems to resolution.  - Assist customers configuring Office 365 tenants, accounts, and services.  - Troubleshoot Outlook 2010, 2013 and 2016 connectivity and configuration  issues with the Exchange Online Server.  - Assist and troubleshoot SharePoint, OneDrive, Skype for Business, Exchange, Identity, Teams, and other Office applications with installation,  setup, and general technical usage. Barista and Server R1 Coffe Co. August 2017 to June 2019 1 year 11 months)  United States  Worked as Barista and Server, making specialty coffees and offering excellent  customer service.  - Serves 60+ customers daily with efficiency and enthusiasm to ensure  customer satisfaction.  - Independently handles the store 6-8 hours a day, in the absence of the manager.  - Maintained a safe and healthy work environment by following occupational  standards, policies, and regulations.  - Other duties as assigned. Frontend Web Developer DESOFT S.A September 2015 to December 2016 1 year 4 months)  Cuba  Worked as Frontend Web Developer, principally developing and directing  web software system analysis, design, programming, testing procedures, maintenance, and documentation.  - Performed several roles as a System Analyst, Programmer, and Database  Manager, among others.  - Programmed using languages like HTML5, CSS3, SQL, JavaScript and jQuery.  - Created the complete Database design of the project and implemented it, using Microsoft SQL 2005 and SQL 2008.  - Administrated Apache HTTP Server, MySQL, and PHP environment.  - Attended educational conferences and presentations on Website  Development, online communication trends, and the latest Web technologies.  - Debugged and resolved coding issues for several different clients.  - Provided timely maintenance and updates of client websites.  - Reported weekly to the supervisor on personal and team development  activities and projects.  - Coordinated the installation of the software systems.  - Trained users to use new and modified Web Sites.  - Other duties as assigned. Teacher of Web Programming IPI Raul Cepero Bonilla September 2012 to July 2015 2 years 11 months)  Cuba  Taught classes of Web Programming using languages like HTML5, CSS3, SQL (using SQL Server 2005), JavaScript and jQuery, along with server use and administration including Apache HTTP Server, MySQL, and PHP.  - Incorporated various technologies in the classrooms, including digital image  projector, audiovisual aids, supplement presentations, and computer software.  - Use of different teaching methods, such as lecture and demonstration, while maintaining discipline in the classroom.  - Trained students to identify their learning styles and personality traits.  - Developed skills in students that will create increased proficiency in their work  environments.  - Conferred with students, parents, and school counselors to resolve  behavioral and academic problems.  - Participated in faculty and professional meetings, educational conferences, and teacher training workshops.  - Evaluated, recorded, and reported student progress throughout the semester.  - Developed and administered tests.  - Identified and assisted at-risk students while eliminating student barriers to learning.  - Other duties as assigned. Education Associate of Science in AS, Computer Programming Palm Beach State College 2019 Bachelor's degree in Computer Science Universidad de las Ciencias Informáticas 2007 to 2012 Skills Exchange, Microsoft exchange, Outlook, Word, Microsoft Excel Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/dayana-carmona-darias-444778190?jobid=1234&lipi=urn%3Ali%3Apage%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume%3B%2FbYoHqP%2BTO6VPYGRTYOVZQ%3D%3D&licu=urn%3Ali%3Acontrol%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume-v02_profile Additional Information Top Skills  Office 365 Administration  Troubleshooting  Microsoft Exchange