Bookkeeper (part-time) Bookkeeper (part-time) Front-End Web Developer Anderson, IN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Bookkeeper (part-time) Mr. Rogers Plumbing - Frankton, IN June 2018 to Present Prepare, examine and analyze accounting records, financial statements and other financial reports. Inputting data into Quickbooks. Creating invoices for customers. Web Developer/Designer Freelance/Self employed - Anderson, IN October 2017 to Present Founded M Hammons Create. Write supporting code for web sites. Design, build and maintain web sites. Use authoring and scripting languages. Create content and manage digital media. Backup files from websites to local directories. Visual design and graphic design services for all business needs. Administrative Assistant Intersect September 2014 to August 2016 Prepare invoices, reports, memos, letters, financial statements and other documents, using word processing, spreadsheet, database, or presentation software. Answer phone calls and direct calls to appropriate parties or take messages. Responsible for monthly bulletin boards, event flyers and event planning. Maintain and update filing, inventory, mailing, prepare for meetings, record appointments and meeting minutes for documentation. Manage all social media accounts Administrative Assistant Harrison College - Anderson, IN February 2012 to August 2014 Greet visitors and answer telephone to determine whether they should be given access to specific individuals and communicate with students, employees, and other individuals to answer questions, disseminate or explain information, and address complaints. Operate office machines, such as photocopiers and scanners, facsimile machines, voice mail systems, and personal computers. Excellent computer skills working with Windows and Microsoft; Excel, Word, Publisher, PowerPoint, and Outlook and responsible for monthly newsletter, bulletin boards, event flyers and event planning. Maintain and update filing, inventory, mailing, prepare for meetings, record appointments and meeting minutes for documentation. Run social media accounts. Education Current Student in Web Design and Development Skillcrush - New York, NY October 2017 to Present Associate in Criminal Justice Harrison College-Indianapolis, IN January 2012 to December 2014 Skills Administrative Assistant (6 years), Outlook (7 years), Payroll (3 years), Billing (5 years), Scheduling (5 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Quickbooks (1 year), Javascript (1 year), HTML (3 years), CSS (2 years), Photoshop (2 years), Illustrator (1 year), Indesign (1 year), Google Docs (4 years), Social Media Management (3 years), Branding (1 year), Networking (8 years), Bookkeeping (4 years), Accounts Payable (4 years), Accounts Receivable (3 years), Tax Preparation (1 year), Wordpress (1 year), JQuery (1 year), Ecommerce (2 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/makenziehammons