UI Developer/ React JS Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span>/ React JS <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer/ React JS Developer - PWC Tampa, FL Work Experience UI Developer/ React JS Developer PWC - Tampa, FL July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Design develop and test HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery and React.JS that meets accessibility and web browser standards for website.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Designed CSS templates for use in all pages on the website working with CSS Background, positioning, text, border, margin, padding, and table.  • Applied optimization techniques to reduce page size and load times to enhance user experience using sprites.  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux for SPA development.  • Implemented client-side Interface using React JS.  • Build stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application  • Worked in using ReactJS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Worked on responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React.js.  • Maintained states in the stores and dispatched the actions using redux.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using React-Draggable  • Used React-Autocomplete for creating google maps location search on the webpage.  • Added Excel-Builder to download the Tabular data in Excel format using react.  • Used Excel Builder 3rd Party open source library and tweak it to make sure it will work with IE11.  • Used flickity.js for creating carousel-images.  • Component for UX-Library consisted of Button, Checkbox, Input, Icons, Toggle Button, Dropdown, Multi-Level Dropdown and many more.  • In Phase Two, worked closely with the Back-End team to display data using the Custom Components, library Components, and Redux.  • Used Middleware, Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Back-End and to also perform RESTFUL services.  • Added Dynamic Functionality by creating and dispatching Action Creators that deployed Actions.  • Created and used Reducers that received said Actions to modify the Store State Tree.  • Optimized animation logic with optimistic functions to increase performance in rendering.  • Worked with backend engineers to optimize existing API calls to create efficiencies by deprecating unneeded API calls.  • Called the Restful web services calls for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods.  • Created social login using Gigya. Integrated the social accounts with the express account.  • Have worked on AWS for fetch the pictures files from AWS to UI  • Used Object Oriented Programming concepts to develop UI components that could be reused across the Web Application.  • Extensively used Git version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.  • Used JIRA as the bug tracking system to track and maintain the history of bugs/issues on everyday basis.  • Worked with JASMINE unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code.  • Extensively used debugging tools such as Firebug and IE Dev tools to investigate the issues and fix the bugs.  • Wrote code to handle cross browser compatibility issues in IE 7, 8, 9 and FF.  • Interacted with Testing Team, Scrum Masters and Business Analysts for fixing of Issues  • Interacted with Customers and development teams for Fix the Issues.  • Performed the System Testing, Regression Testing for Complete UI after fixing the Issues which are reported by Testing Team.    Environment: HTML 5, CSS3, Sass, Less, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, Ajax, ReactJS, Redux, Flex, My SQL, XML, XSL, XSLT, JSON, Git hub, Restful API, AWS, JIRA, Jasmine and Web Strom UI Developer/React JS Developer Tampa, FL May 2016 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  • Worked on an Agile (Scrum)Development Team to deliver regular updates to business team and project managers.  • Involved designing in webpages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, React.js, Redux, Flex, Mongo DB  • Responsible to Style, look and feel of the webpage with SASS that extends CSS with dynamic behavior such as variable, mixing, operations and functions.  • Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • ImplementedvariousscreensforthefrontendusingReact.jsandusedvariouspredefinedcomponentsfromNPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept.  • Responsible for React and architecture. Building components library, including Tree, Slide-View, and Table Grid.  • Implemented stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Used React-Autocomplete for creating google maps location search on the webpage.  • Configured Web pack to execute linters, magnifiers, pre/post-processors, tests, transpires, etc. based on build target.  • Utilized React for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app that searched projects via the GitHub API through keywords.  • Implemented React container and presentational components (as State less and Functional components when applicable).  • Added Excel-Builder to download the Tabular data in Excel format using React.  • Implemented flux pattern by using redux framework as a core dependency.  • Have worked on AWS to integrate the server side and client-side code.  • Experience in RESTful web services to integrate between Server side to Client Side  • Worked with JASMINE unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code.  • Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  • Handled cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on both Windows.  • Used HPQuality Center to keep track of outstanding bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and improve communication.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, JavaScript, JQuery, React JS, Reduct, Flex, Web Strom, JSP, MS Office, HP Quality Center, Jasmine, GitHub, and Jenkins. UI Developer/React JS Developer Hughes Network Systems - Germantown, MD February 2014 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  • Interfaced with the Marketing and IT departments & developing requirements to implement.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML 4/5, CSS 3, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards.  • Used the new tags from HTML5 like section, article, header, footer, canvas for animations.  • Developed client side drop down menus, search bars, carousel, and drop-down toggles  using Twitter-Bootstrap and JQuery.  • Developed client-side validation code using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Designed CSS templates for use in all pages on the website working with CSS Background, positioning, text, border, margin, padding, and table.  • Extensive use of Angular.js for developing the SPAs (Single Page Applications) for internal application/tool.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  • Experience in using React JS, Redux for SPA development.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Redux concept.  • Added Excel-Builder to download the Tabular data in Excel format using react.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using React-Draggable.  • Build stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Used Axios with react for making AJAX Calls.  • Developed multiple POCs to create a user interface in Angular JS.  • Worked on Angular JS directives, Controllers, Filters, Services, Templets, Events and Injectors.  • Good experience in JavaScript MVC framework like Angular JS, React JS for front-end applications.  • Developed the backend by using node.js, express and mongoDB.  • Developed Web API using Node.JS and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  • Developed multiple POCs to create an interface between Backend to Frontend by using MongoDB, Express.JS, and Node.js.  • Responsible for creating RESTFUL Web Services to serve data to the front-end application in JSON format.  • As a backend developer, I was responsible for creating RESTFUL Web using Node.js & Express.js.  • Used Node.js as a proxy to interact with Rest services and interacting with Database.  • Have worked on AWS to integrate the server side and client-side code.  • Worked with JASMINE unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code.  • Used PostgreSQL for storing and retrieving JSON format data that need to be displayed on Google maps API.  • Utilize Jasmine, Karma, Gulp and NPM to build and test applications.  • Handled cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on both Windows.  • Used JIRA to keep track of outstanding bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and improve communication.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, MongoDB, Express JS, AWS, AngularJS, React JS, Node.js, JQuery, RWD, Eclipse, JSP, Adobe Photoshop, MS Office, and JIRA, Jasmine, Karma, Gulp. UI Developer/UX Designer iQuanti December 2011 to January 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked with clients and senior user experience designers to understand the branding strategies and design goals to define strategy, layout and features for the web sites/applications design.  • As a UX designer, led stakeholders through UX design process, from identifying business goals, defining.  • Design and technical requirements, created and demonstrated interactive wireframes to guide decision-making  • Created elegant UX and UI for responsive web, mobile, mobile- web and desktop applications utilizing Ax- Urea, Adobe CS, and invasion.  • Collaborating with the branding and marketing team to design mockups and website design prototypes, icons, graphic design elements, style guides and interface elements.  • Developed HTML prototype and UI deliverable such as wireframes, screen mock-ups and interface design.  • Generated team member's proficiency in specified skills and knowledge using skills and matrix.  • Met with clients directly to understand the graphic design work requirements and delivered design to the clients with in deadline and received feedback and ratings for the work.  • Designed LOGO, broachers, posters, illustrations for solutions marketing, presentations for project proposals and prepared communication materials according to the client requirements.  • Developed CSS3 style sheet to give gradient effects. Devolved page layout, navigation and icons. Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements were lagging.  • Involved in designing and implementing Web2.0Rich UI for Self-Service Application using JQuery, Ajax framework and widget-based JavaScript programming model.  • Designing and developed User Interface web Forms using Fasces CSS, Adobe Creative Suite.  • Video Editing using Adobe Premier Pro.  • UV Unwrapping texture painting, Texturing and lighting for 3D models using Maya, Adobe Photoshop, 3D Body paint,3D Architecture, Vehicles and Prop Modeling using Maya.    Environment: HTML, DHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, Backbone.js, Responsive Design, XML, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, Firebug, JSON, Wireframes and Waterfall Web Developer Sun Technologies September 2010 to November 2011 Responsibilities:  • Designed the Front-End applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JQuery.  • Worked on feature developments for the Growth team and projects handed down from the executive team, focusing primarily on HTML, CSS/SCSS, and JavaScript development.  • Provided time estimates for front-end development on projects, consulted with project managers and clients on front-end development tasks, managed developer resources, provide insight into user interface design, and interacted directly with clients to answer any questions or concerns.  • Developed UI screens using JSP, Struts tags and HTML.  • Used Jakarta Struts Framework, based on the Model View Controller architecture for rapid application development and ease of maintenance.  • Designed tables to access the database in Oracle and involved in writing PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, and Triggers.  • Developed non-functional HTML, CSS pages from the mock ups and involved in UI review with UI architect and Business Units.  • Implemented AJAX functionality using JQUERY, JSON and XML.  • Worked closely with Business Analysts in understanding the technical requirements of each project and prepared the use cases for different functionalities and designs.  • Designed new classes and functionalities using various JQUERY components for CRM application for customer service.  • Tested cross browser compatibility issues between multiple browsers.  • Facilitated discussions with Systems Analyst to identify technical requirements.  • Developed and designed the various screens and its architecture in accordance to UI Specs.  • Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging, deploying and printing.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Struts, Apache Tomcat, EJB, Servlets, JNDI, JMS, Oracle 9i, HTML, XML Web Services, My Eclipse, SOAP, J-Unit, ANT, Rational Rose, Clear Case. Education Bachelor's