Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer - Walmart New York, NY • 5 years of strong IT experience in software development experience involving object-oriented analysis, design, development and support of web based, and n-tier client/server applications based on Java, J2EE and UI technologies.  • Experienced in implementing Enterprise Applications with each phase of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Reviews, Coding, Unit and Integration Testing.  • Implementation of System and Web Applications, using J2EE and various open source framework like Spring 3.2, 3.0, 2.5, Struts 2.3.x, 2.2.x, 2.0.x, JSF, Hibernate (3.0, 4.0, 4.1, 4.3) and JMS.  • Expertise in Client scripting language and server-side scripting languages like HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSTL, AJAX, jQuery, ExtJS, JSON, Dojo, Bootstrap, AngularJS and Node.js.  • Detailed experience with Spring Framework projects including use of features: AOP, DAO, Dependency Injection (IOC).  • Extensive knowledge and working experience in Service-Oriented architecture (SOA), Rational Unified Process (RUP), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Object Relational Mapping technologies, UML and J2EE Architecture.  • Experience in Software Quality Assurance (QA) testing user cycle & experience in regression testing and defect fixing.  • Experience in Core Java with strong understanding and working knowledge of Object-Oriented Concepts like Collections API, Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Polymorphism, generics, reflection, and JDBC.  • Implemented the Hibernate framework (ORM) to interact with database.  • Worked proficiently in various IDEs including Net Beans, JDeveloper, Eclipse, RAD.  • Expertise in XML and related technologies like Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, XPath, XQuery.  • Developed Java applications and tools to automate tests run in UNIX environment.  • Worked on the dependency injection using Spring framework with Application Context XML file.  • Expert in Java development and object-oriented analysis.  • Design, develop and implement dozens of web applications that support day-to-day operations. Experienced on various SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) like Waterfall, Rapid Application Development (RAD) and Agile (SCRUM) models.  • Experienced in deploying, configuring, maintaining applications on application servers such as RedHat JBoss, Web sphere, Web logic, and Tomcat 6.0.  • Have undergone the training in Software Development Processes like Waterfall, Test Driven Development (TDD), Iterative and Agile/Scrum Methodologies.  • Experience in writing SQL queries to generate the reports for several applications and good understanding of PL/SQL.  • Extensive experience in Linux systems including Shell scripting, build scripts etc.  • Experience in working with Continuous Integration (CI), Continuous Deployment Practice, Cloud based implementation using Jenkins, Maven tools.  • Experienced in developing build scripts, deploying applications using Maven, Ant and CI servers.  • Used Maven as the build tool, GIT, SVN for version control, Jenkins for Continuous  Integration and JIRA as a defect tracking tool.  • Experience in developing and deploying applications on Cloud Platforms like Amazon  Web Services.  • Good experience in design patterns like Singleton, Abstract Factory, Builder, Observer,  Strategy, MVC, Business Delegate, Data Transfer Object (DTO), Data Access Object  (DAO).  • Designing and developing Restful API and services using best practices to interact  within the Microservices and with the front end.  • Experience in unit testing the applications using JUnit Framework and developed  logging and standard mechanism based on Log4J.  • Setup the continuous Integration (CI) process for the application using the Jenkins.  • Worked on Xpath, Angular JS, Java Persistence Architecture (JPA).  • Expertise in analyzing and resolving Cross-Brower compatibility issues and provides coding solutions to reusability problems.  • Experience in writing/editing web content, technical and user documentation, business process analysis, process flowcharting and documentation  • Multi-cultured Team Player with complete flexibility to work independently as well as in a team and have quick grasping capabilities to work with the newly emerging technologies.  • Expertise in using log4j for extensible logging, debugging and error tracing.  • Excellent communication, interpersonal and quick learning skills with proven ability to adapt to different project environments. Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Walmart - Bentonville, AR January 2017 to Present Work closely with other engineers to initiate much-needed changes to the financial system for this struggling provider of web-enabled merchant services.  Responsibilities:  • Used advanced level of HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts and Angular 2.0  • Developed applications using Java 6.0/7.0 and J2EE.Experience in LINUX environment.  • Used JIRA as the bug tracking system to track and maintain the history of bugs/issues on everyday basis.  • Development of cloud hosted web applications and REST APIs using Spring Boot with embedded Tomcat.  • Involved in the architecture, design and development of high traffic application built in JAVA/J2EE using MVC architecture integrating spring, Hibernate and Struts frameworks in SOA.  • Involved in writing Maven scripts for automated deployment of the application and managed GitHub Projects and migrated from SVN to GitHub with merge and version and used Jenkins for continuous integration  • Involved in designing the database and coding of SQL, PL/SQL, Triggers and Views  using MySQL.  • Involved in developing UI using Spring MVC framework, JSP, JSTL, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and AngularJS.  • Used GIT to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code  merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature  implementation starts.  • Initiate and oversee the migration of APPROVE.NET's system to another data center  • Implement changes to transaction processing systems, interfaces, and financial systems  • Coordinate the efforts of a geographically distributed team through the introduction of online collaboration tools and daily Skype calls Selected Accomplishments:  • Used Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, IOC and Eclipse IDE, GitHub, JSF, OOAD, AWS, RCP, Multithreading to develop intranet web application.  • Developed the application using Core Java, Multi-Threading, Spring Core, Beans, JDBC, Transaction and Batch, ORACLE, Maven.  • Drove a 15 percent reduction in downtime, customer defections and refunds.  • Used GitHub as Version Controlling System to track the files among the team members.  • Developed DAOs using Hibernate persistence API for the database operations to interact with Oracle database.  • Integrated with Spring Cloud projects to provide distributed tracing and other features.  • Implemented the logging mechanism using Log4j technology and configured Maven dependencies for build automation.  • Improved operating margins through a 5 percent reduction in transaction costs.  • Developed DAOs using Hibernate persistence API for the database operations to interact with Oracle database.  • Technologies Used: Spring MVC, jQuery and plugins, JSP, AJAX, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, MySQL, JAX-RS, Git, Maven, Couchbase, Elastic Search API, JSON, SOAP, JUnit, Tomcat, Jenkins, Java, AWS.  • Developed microservices with Spring and tested the application using Spring Boot.  • Worked on Spring Framework for Injection and DAO. Java Developer Ally Financial - Detroit, MI July 2014 to December 2016 Enhanced and expanded the digital marketing platform for automotive manufacturers and dealers in North America while creating a more efficient engineering process for this wholly-owned subsidiary of Ally Financial.  Responsibilities:  • Created sophisticated, imaginative and efficient back-end solutions for a large-scale, on-demand marketing system  • Developed high-quality code, established development standards and led by example  • Designed reusable components by utilizing various standard frameworks  • Evaluated requirements and initial mock-ups; made technology recommendations that supported optimal construction, maintenance and performance  • Used maven to create the war/ear file.  • Leveraged the latest developments in Internet technologies  • Served as a technical resource and mentor for a team of six engineers.  • Selected Accomplishments: Used Spring Core annotations for Spring Dependency Injection, Spring MVC for Rest API's and Spring Boot for microservices.  • Streamlined engineering processes and provided system training, best practices and project-based leadership to team members resulting in a 20 percent reduction in development time  • Developed the applications using Java, J2EE, Struts, JDBC • Implemented Log4J1.2 for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking using loggers, appenders.  • Implemented ORM with HIBERNATE to make the Persistence class objects interact with numerous SQL Server tables spanned across various schemas as per MODOC standards.  • Used Maven and Jenkins for building the applications EAR for various environments.  • Designed and developed web interfaces and business logic using Jakarta Struts Framework.  • Developed Interactive web pages using AngularJS, HTML5.0, CSS and JavaScript  • Designed and implemented two micro services for Restful API's using Spring, Spring boot, Java8, Hibernate and following the JAX-RS principles.  • Provided support regarding production-related problems by interacting with users at various Apex facilities to ensure product integrity, high scalability.  • Maintain and update confluence pages. This task involved updating documents related to the Lunar Journey application including project setup and application functionality documents.  • Delivered a wide range of functional enhancements and performance improvements to dozens of existing web-based, e-commerce applications  • Developed a sales lead generation/ management application that increased revenue by 10 percent. Web Application Developer Citi Bank - New York, NY January 2013 to June 2014 Designed, developed, documented, refined and maintained web applications in a Citi Bank of New York.  Responsibilities:  • Built and maintained web-based applications for Internet, Intranet and Extranet sites  • Implemented different frameworks like Spring Core, Spring MVC, Spring Data (Spring JDBC, Spring ORM), Spring Boot, Spring Microservice, JSF, Hibernate.  • Experience in implementing Web Services based on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using SOAP, Restful Web Services, JAX-WS, WSDL, WADL.  • Experience working with SOAP and Restful Web Service.  • Implemented base classes, setting up framework classes/configuration files for implementing J2EE application using complete set of JAVA SDK and available J2EE APIs.  • Good experience in J2EE Testing in developing test cases with JUnit, MOCKITO for Unit testing, and logging using Log4j.  • Complete understanding of the DevOps process with continuous integration using Jenkins, JIRA, GIT, CHEF  • Experience in using version control and configuration management tools like GIT, SVN and CVS.  • Implemented the application using spring boot and microservices  • Developed the front-end featuring rich web interface implemented using HTML, CSS3, React JS and Bootstrap for responsive design.  • Worked on GitHub for creation of GitHub repository for updating our program for Version Control.  • Involved in design, develop and implementation of the application using Spring and J2EE framework.  • Conducted a thorough needs analysis by surveying internal and external stakeholders  • Selected Accomplishments: Refined and consolidated several existing applications, including time card and billing, resulting in increased satisfaction and efficiency for a network of 300 attorneys and end users  • Designed, implemented and deployed J2EE web application using Struts and Spring IOC (Invention of Control).  • Built web-based application using Spring MVC Architecture and REST Web-services.  • Involved in design, develop and implementation of the application using Spring and J2EE framework  • Created a secure, case status application that reduced client phone calls and emails by 35 percent.  • Developed data persistence layer using Hibernate as Object Relational Mapping  Tool for the back-end data persistence and configured hibernate using O/R mapping  files.  • Extensively worked with Hibernate Query Language (HQL) to store and retrieve the data from oracle database.  • Created Native Queries to perform DML operation on the entities with Hibernate and JPA.  • Implemented MAVEN as a project build tool and for the transitory dependency  management of the project  • Experience in working with application server technologies like WebLogic and Apache Tomcat. Education Master's Skills J2EE (6 years), Java (6 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (6 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (6 years), MVC (6 years), Front end developer (5 years), AWS (5 years), amazon web services (4 years), VPCs (4 years), Angular (5 years), Spring (5 years), Node.js (5 years), Javascript Additional Information Technical Skills  • Languages: Java, C/C++, DHTML/XML, Shell Scripts  • Software Methodologies: Agile Scrum, TDD, Waterfall.    • Operating Systems: UNIX (Linux, Solaris, AIX, HPUX, BSD), Windows  • Networking: TCP/IP, RPC, HTTP, Security, J2EE/Servlets  • Object Oriented: OOA/D, UML, CORBA, RMI, EJB  • Database: Oracle, Informix, Sybase, SQL, PL/SQL, ERD  • Frameworks Spring, Java Script, MVC Hibernate, JavaBeans.  • Web Technologies: - HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, Angular2.0/4.0, NodeJS  • Testing Tools: Junit, TestNG, Mockito, Jasmine, Karma, Mocha, Chai, Spock, Protractor.  • Project Management Tools: JIRA, Rally, Microsoft Project.  • Application/ Web Servers: Oracle Web logic, IBM Web Sphere, JBoss, Glassfish, Apache Tomcat.