Front End Web Developer Front End <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front-End Web Developer, Content Writer Coral Springs, FL Front-End Web Developer and Content Writer with a strong passion for coding and design, learning new libraries and frameworks, and collaborating to bring new ideas to life. Experienced in creative and informative writing as well as responsive web development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Web Developer Life Extension - Fort Lauderdale, FL July 2019 to Present Developed and modified existing pages for company website while implementing modern HTML5 and CSS3 practices to ensure content was responsive across all devices, platforms, and screen resolutions.    Utilized the SiteCore CMS for developing pages while completing project deadlines reported in the Work Front task manager. Content Director/Front-End Web Developer Infinix Media - Fort Lauderdale, FL March 2017 to March 2019 Managed and supervised a team of content writers in order to delegate incoming projects, edit and create written content for landing pages and blog articles, and gave final approval before project launch to ensure proficient and effective verbiage and accuracy of topics being written.    Wrote engaging content for brochures, landing page, and websites resulting in effective user engagement and growth in client leads.    Additionally assisted the web design & development team to build out landing pages and websites using current HTML5, CSS3, JS, and PHP standard markup while ensuring all pages were responsive across major browsers and device resolutions. Front End Web Developer (Contract position) Moon Media - Cooper City, FL October 2016 to February 2017 Modified HTML templates and converted existing PSDs into a new website for Moon Media using best coding practices. Enhanced user experience for Moon Media's new website by applying custom JS to increase interactive functionality and ensured projects were responsive across all major web browsers and devices. Marketing Specialist (Contract Position) Handmade Digital - San Antonio, TX August 2016 to December 2016 Verified local client listings across SEO platforms such as Google, Bing, Yahoo, etc. to ensure marketing visibility. Enhanced client branding by writing web content for new service pages. Work completed remotely. Front-End Web Developer Optime Consulting - Weston, FL February 2015 to April 2016 Supported Fortune 500 technology clients by constructing and maintaining fully-interactive time-sensitive websites and microsites along with transforming PSD design files into blast ready HTMLs.    • Increased web page loading speeds by optimizing existing code and applying best development practices.  • Worked closely with design team to ensure PSD files were properly converted to fully responsive websites.  • Ensured all code was efficient in order to keep all websites and email communications responsive across all devices and screen resolutions.  • Maintained enterprise clients’ annual global sales event microsites creating on-demand access and event updates.  • Maintained cross-browser and responsive design & development principles through rigorous testing and custom code implementation. Multimedia Web Developer Contour Graphics - Coral Springs, FL February 2013 to November 2014 Collaborated in website design and converted PSDs into fully functional, responsive websites.    • Applied SEO techniques to social media and blog posts for multiple clients resulting in higher page ranking among search results.  • Maintained existing client websites while providing updates and support to platforms each site was deployed on.  • Trained clients to using Wordpress platform for managing their websites after completing website development.  • Customized client sites through Wordpress and Bootstrap while maintaining responsive design cross-platform and browser practices. Web Developer & Designer Type-1 Web Development - Tamarac, FL August 2011 Increased client market visibility with the creation of contemporary logos, branding, content development, and state-of-the-art websites. Built long lasting client relationships through quality work and on-going web maintenance.    • Designed and created high resolution logos for use on various medias.  • Maintained client understanding and communication throughout process with clean wireframes and mood-boards constructed using Adobe Photoshop.  • Implemented reusable and clean code during development phases using multiple IDEs including Adobe Dreamweaver.  • Developed wireframes and design concepts from Photoshop and converted them into HTML5, CSS3, JS, and whatever other technologies best suited the demands of the project to make client websites engaging across all browsers and devices. Education Computer Software Engineering in Full-Stack Web Development Free Code Camp University - Work at Home 2015 to 2020 Bachelor's in Web Design And Development Full Sail University - Winter Park, FL 2011 to 2014 Skills Content Creation (2 years), CSS3 (4 years), HTML 5 (4 years), Javascript (2 years), Web Development (4 years), Social Media Management (2 years), Wordpress (3 years), Bootstrap (4 years), SEO (2 years), Content Management (2 years), Supervisor (1 year), Team Management (1 year), Photoshop (3 years), Writing, Website, Blog, Social Media, Front-End Links http://linkedin.com/in/michaelmastrucci http://www.type1wd.com Certifications/Licenses Certificate Diploma in Photography July 2016 to Present Certificate Diploma in Nutrition December 2016 to Present Certificate Diploma in Sports & Exercise Nutrition January 2017 to Present Assessments Social Media Skills — Highly Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to create content, communicate online, and build a brand's reputation. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/wca8wa-qewisbmey Search Engine Optimization — Highly Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ge-zws8o7cydv2p7 Graphic Design Skills — Expert March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to create visual media to effectively communicate information and concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/lubos7-qpukkbjzp Problem Solving — Familiar March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/5qmexdsf2xq0dp-b Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Limited experience in:    • Adobe Creative Suite  • React/Redux  • C#  • MySQL  • PHP  • Python