Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - SKIDATA AG Portland, OR Work Experience Web Developer SKIDATA AG September 2016 to Present Worked in an agile environment using C# almost exclusively to create software which solved customer needs.  ? Used Angular 6 to migrate legacy webforms projects over to responsive SPA control panels for administrators.  ? Integrated with multiple ticketing companies to build automated services that grant loaded value to user accounts and tickets. Software granted over a million dollars of loaded value across major sports brands.  ? Planned projects and outcomes in bimonthly sprints.  ? Worked closely with brands to build personalized tools that help build loyalty with their client base.  ? Built parking tracking software to help stadiums manage their parking inventories during games and grant users parking  spaces based on their previous ticket sales.  ? Created software for multiple ticket sale platforms that grant user points based off ticket sales.  ? Wrote SQL scripts in order to sift through ticketing data and grant user points based off customer criteria.  ? Integrated with multiple direct payment processors to allow venues to accept credit card payments through their SKIDATA  software. Administrators could manage and refund these transactions through their SKIDATA portals.  ? Created RESTful API endpoints to help 3rd party integrators build interactive tools using the SKIDATA backend and database.  ? Built Pub-Sub queuing services using RabbitMQ as our message broker and NServiceBus as our functionality library.  ? Used the SignalR ASP.NET library to add real-time functionality for updating clients as they interact with our portals.  ? Worked with Amazon Web Services to host, manage, and load balance our sites at SKIDATA.  ? Started work on transferring functionality from primary code base to Docker Microservices. Owner Larzon LLC May 2014 to December 2015 Created an eCommerce startup that evolved from idea to revenue in under one year.  ? Independently developed a successful business plan.  ? Initiated and maintained successful relationships with manufacturers.  ? Developed a tracking system for sourcing and shipping products from manufacturers to company customers.  ? Dealt directly with customers to ensure delivery and satisfaction.  ? Effectively applied Search Engine Optimization (SEO) best practices, creating original blog content and utilizing pay-per-click  advertising in order to increase website traffic.  ? Continually maintained and updated front-end website design. Professional Poker Player, Self Employed Gutshot Gaming, LLC February 2006 to January 2011 January 2015-January 2016  ? Competed daily at a global level, playing over a million hands per year.  ? Worked independently in a self-motivated manner.  ? Developed highly profitable strategies for the fast-changing online poker environment.  ? Managed a personal database containing data from millions of poker hands.  ? Independently learned and utilized third-party software in order to accurately analyze hand data, identify strengths and weaknesses of myself and opponents, and to track any changes taking place in the online poker community. Education Bachelor's Degree in Finance Portland State University August 2014 Finance Portland State University School of Business Administration July 2011 to August 2013 Skills Css, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Sql, C#, Html, Javascript, jquery, Jira, Excel, Microsoft excel, Angular, DotNet (3 years) Links https://github.com/aml630 Additional Information Skills  ? Web Development  ? Primary: C#, Microsoft SQL Server  ? Secondary: Angular, Javascript, Jquery, CSS, HTML, AWS  ? Other  ? Microsoft Excel, Jira