Website Builder Website Builder Green Bay, WI ? Strength in both verbal and written communication skills, which directly contribute to my ability to build and maintain a customer base while working effectively in either a team or individual setting.  ? Excellent understanding of current web technologies and programming practices through continuing education, trade journals and professional networking.  ? Ability to evaluate code to ensure that it is properly structured, meets industry standards and is compatible with browsers, devices and multiple operating systems.  ? Complete detailed programming and development tasks for front end public and internal websites - as well as back end server code. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Website Builder Inception Online Marketing July 2018 to August 2019 • Build websites for clients involving checking all their content, editing photos and graphics, optimizing content for SEO, adding custom code if needed, and transferring any content from the client's old site to the new one being built.  • Update clients websites with new content they provide.  • Optimize photos for client Google Business Page.  • Find new ways to optimize workflow and identify problems with current website themes so they can be fixed on the main template. Substitute Support Staff GREEN BAY PUBLIC SCHOOL DISTRICT - Green Bay, WI February 2018 to July 2018 • Greet the public, students, staff in a professional manner. Primary duties include recording student attendance, data entry, filing, copying, mail, faxes, and ordering supplies.  • Supervise students as needed throughout the day, to ensure school environment is positive, safe and conducive to student learning. Interact with students in a positive manner; encouraging and empowering them to achieve success. Web Developer Webfitters - Green Bay, WI January 2017 to January 2018 • Experience in working with PHP Framework (Laravel) and admin panel Backpack. This includes creating databases, models, CRUDS, controllers, and PHP code required to connect website along with HTML and CSS for building pages and styling them.  • Extensive work with Wordpress themes, styling them and adding content to fit the client needs.  • Create custom CSS as needed. Emphasis on accuracy of data entered into database and files. Sales Associate Michaels - Green Bay, WI September 2012 to September 2017 • Assist manager in meeting district goals based on sales and profits.  • Respond to customer complaints in a professional and positive manner.  • Data entry, balance daily transactions, operate sales register.  • Open and close store ensuring appropriate presentation as well as security of the building. Education Associate Degree in Web Development and Design Northeast Wisconsin Technical College - Green Bay, WI May 2015 Skills Search engine optimization, Problem Solving, Data Entry, HTML, CSS, Microsoft Office, PHP, Photoshop, Google Docs, Wordpress, MYSQL, Javascript, HTML 5, MYSQL, Javascript Additional Information Skills & Abilities   ? Proven ability to design and build functional websites.  ? Exceptionally creative with a strong focus on front end design and modern web practices.  ? Extensive and well-rounded experience with search engine optimization.  ? Solution based thinker with outstanding problem solving and project management skills.