UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer Cleveland, OH ? Over 5+ years of Hands on technical experience on Front End (client side) technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Less/SASS, MVC, And Responsive Web Design.  ? Strong front-end UI development skills using scripting languages like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery and AJAX.  ? Hands on experience with Object-Oriented JavaScript. Good understanding of OOPS Concepts and prototypes.  ? Expertise with MVC JavaScript Frameworks like Angular.JS for fast-paced web development and better functionality.  ? Responsible for creating responsive application by using HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  ? Developed non-functional HTML and CSS pages from mockups and involved in UI review with Designers to ensure excellent User Experience (UX)  ? Designed dynamic and browser compatible web page using web design techniques HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Experience in various Charting/UI tools like High Charts, Google API, and Map box API, and jQuery UI.  ? Experience in working with templating engines like jQuery Templates, jQuery Grow, jQuery Element and Tumbles YouTube Plugin.  ? Worked on all phases of Software Development Life Cycle SDLC including requirements gathering through client interaction, Design, Documentation, Development, Integration, Testing, Configuration and Production Support.  ? Experience in major web applications servers, including Apache Tomcat, JBoss and WebLogic.  ? Participated in development of a well responsive single page application using Bootstrap framework, and jQuery in conjunction with HTML5, CSS3 standards, with front-end UI team.  ? Proficient in developing web page quickly and effectively using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Responsive Web Design (RWD), and experience in making webpage cross browser compatible.  ? Ability to learn new technologies with minimal time.  ? Expert-level knowledge of cross-browser, cross-platform compatibility and design constraints and Google analytics. Developed RWD using Media Queries and Bootstrap. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Developer Key Bank - Cleveland, OH December 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Requirements and Analysis: Understanding the requirements of the client and the flow of the application as well as the application Framework.  ? Created HTML5 and CSS from Photoshop mockups.  ? Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop.  ? Defined and developed the application's presentation layer using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery Scripting.  ? Redesigned pages to improve application design and UI to attract the customers by taking inputs from senior management.  ? Involved designing in web pages using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, SASS and LESS.  ? Developed mockups and prototypes using HTML5and CSS3.  ? Developed cross browser and multi browser compatible web pages using HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.  ? Used advanced level of HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts (table less layout)  ? Utilized Angular 6 framework to bind HTML template (views) to JavaScript object (models)  ? Created TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2/4.  ? Created and developed the web-page layout and positioned/developed design elements, using Dreamweaver, HTML and Adobe Photoshop.  ? Designed DOM based interactive to reprogram selected links and adopted WCAG 3.0 standards for HTML and XHTML and W3C standards for CSS as well.  ? Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Bootstrap, Angular.js and Node.js.  ? Worked with Bootstrap twitter framework to Design single page application.  ? Worked on prototypes for Responsive design.  ? Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using Responsive design and media queries.  ? Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties.  ? Used AJAX extensively to implement front end /user interface features in the application.  ? Developed the pages that are complaint to W3C standard.  ? Developed different JQuery component in MVC micro architecture framework which internally use various design pattern such as singleton, command, delegate, etc.  ? Worked with Jasmine for writing unit test cases along with functionality and integrated test cases.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular 2/4, Angular 6 Angular.js, Node.js, Ext.js, TypeScript, Bootstrap, Responsive Design, MVC, Adobe Photoshop, SASS, LESS, DOM, XML, CVS, Windows. UI Developer Sunlife Financial - Boston, MA September 2017 to November 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Involvement in all stages of Software development life cycle including Analysis, development, Implementation, testing and support.  ? Involved in web designing using HTML 5, XHTML, CSS 3, JavaScript and extensively used Table less Design in CSS for positioning.  ? Developed responsive designs using HTML5 and CSS3 for hand held devices.  • Designed and developed code for table less web interfaces using XHTML, CSS, DOM and JavaScript.  ? Designed data formatted web applications using HTML, DHTML, XHTML and CSS and deploy the script by client side scripting using JavaScript.  ? Responsible to build dynamically generated dropdown lists with Lookup APIs using Ajax, jQuery and React.JS.  ? Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  ? Worked with CSS 3 and Bootstrap to create Responsive Web designs for multiple departments/pages.  ? Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using Responsive Web design and media queries.  ? Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties.  ? Developed responsive single page web application using Angular.js and Node.js, custom directives.  ? Utilized Angular.js framework to bind HTML template (views) to JavaScript object (models)  ? Used Selectors, Events, AJAX and DOM Manipulation using components in Angular 2.0 for updating  content on DOM nodes.  ? Created TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.  ? Integrated Bootstrap.JS into several applications for speeding up JavaScript development.  ? Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, jQuery and JavaScript.  ? Developed CSS styles to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  ? Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant. Developed CSS3 style sheets to give gradient effects.    Environment: HTML5, DHTML, React.JS, XHTML, Ajax, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Angular 2, TypeScript, Angular.js, Node.js, Responsive Web Design, HTML, Adobe, JSP, Oracle, Photoshop, CS3, Dream Weaver and Windows. UI Developer Nordstrom - Apparel - Seattle, WA June 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Designing and documenting automated process solutions in accordance with standard design principles and conventions.  ? Designed and developed web pages using with HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, Ajax, Bootstrap, JSP and jQuery based on the W3C standards and Web 3.0.  ? Developed huge multi-advertisement layout engine that was cross browser compatible.  ? Developed the front-end featuring rich web interface implemented using JavaScript library like JQuery.  ? Used the Mozilla Firefox extension, Firebug, to view and debug HTML, DOM and JavaScript.  ? Provided production level code to the engineering team for product development, including cross-browser support, and CSS optimization.  ? Redesigned and implemented complete web application to meet web and industry standards.  ? Designed various grid panels and various UI components using EXT JS and Angular.js framework and JQUERY.  ? Designed web pages using with HTML, CSS and jQuery based on the W3C standard.  ? Developed CSS page layouts, styles and table less coding for efficient design.  ? Created modules and components using Angular.js, coupled them together into a functional app.  ? Worked with JSON based web services and with entire Angular.JS suite of tools.  ? Worked with Angular 5 features like Components, Services, and Routers and created Custom pipes to format the data before displaying it to the user.  ? Designed DOM based interactive to reprogram selected links and adopted WCAG 2.0 standards for HTML and XHTML and W3C standards for CSS as well.  ? Written Ajax driven JSON consuming JavaScript functions to save User selections such as radio button, drop-down menu selections into a cookie.  ? Maintained Cross Browser compatibility & implement Responsive Design using Twitter Bootstrap, custom media queries, etc.  ? Created websites for devices using Responsive Web design.  ? Used CSS selectors for condition based styling and pseudo-classes to add some special effects to selectors.  ? Worked with CSS pre-processor tools namely SASS.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, DHTML, Angular 5, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Responsive Design, SASS, Twitter Bootstrap, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, DOM, Ionic, Jasmine, firebug and Windows. UI/ Web Developer First Tennessee Bank - Memphis, TN February 2015 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Requirements and Analysis Understanding the requirements of the client and the flow of the application as well as the application Framework  ? Developed the UI Screens using HTML 5, DHTML, XML, JavaScript's, Ajax, JQuery Custom-tags, JSTL DOM Layout and CSS.  ? Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  ? Implemented latest HTML5 and CSS3 features like creating various effects, shading, 2D 3D animation, Shapes, Handling multimedia files and many others.  ? Responsible for the overall layout design, color scheme of the web site using HTML 5, XHTML and CSS3 and Responsible for creating detailed wire frames and process flows.  ? Enhanced application performance by Angular 6 Component based development in view of future Angular framework transitions.  ? Worked extensively on Angular 4/6 framework and had experience working with Ng-Modules, components, Observables.  ? Designed and implemented the modern and enhanced development platform using frameworks like Angular 5.  ? Implemented Router Module of Angular 5 to make the whole project a Single Page Application and add routers according to the requirements.  ? Wrote Angular interceptor for redirections of pages based on redirection keys comes from AJAX success.  ? Used Bootstrap and Angular UI Bootstrap for creating rich, Responsive UI Screens for varying screen sizes and devices.  ? Worked with Responsive Web design using Bootstrap.JS.  ? Created and deployed new features in order to sustain and amend existing applications.  ? Developed cross-browser/platform HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards  ? Used Dreamweaver as HTML Editor for designing new pages.  ? Developed a core component of Analytics with Node.js, Angular.js, EXT JS, Couch DB, and Socket Stream.  ? Worked on the modernization of a legacy and outsourced UI technologies used were Angular.js, EXT JS, and JQuery.  ? Developed Applications Using CSS 3 Media Queries, SASS and LESS.  ? Incorporate the AJAX scripts to improve the performance of the page.  ? Implemented site-wide Google sponsored listings and several third-party campaign takeovers using the latest UI technologies like JQuery and HTML5.  ? Involved in developing various generic JavaScript functions used for validations.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, DHTML, JavaScript, XHTML, XML, JSON, AJAX, Angular 6/5/4, TypeScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, EXT JS, Responsive Web Design, JQuery UI, Jasmine, Karma, DOM, MVC, SQL, Windows. UI Developer Quant Software Solutions - IND November 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Developed the User Interactive web pages in a professional manner with using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS as per company's standards.  ? Developed client side validation code using JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Implemented design process upon client approval and built out all assets: buttons, products shots, UI components, etc.  ? Developed dynamic web pages using HTML 5, CSS 3, Angular.Js, Bootstrap, LESS and Sublime Text Editor.  ? Worked on generating the plain CSS using the LESS framework.  ? Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML and CSS.  ? Developed the administrative UI using Angular.js.  ? Used Ext JS to build the GUI controls of the application.  ? Utilized various JQUERY plugins to build Rich Internet Application (RIA) to make it look more intuitive.  ? Extensively used JQUERY, JSON, AJAX and DOM scripting to create interactive web applications like auto complete form.  ? Involved in implementing Application in the in-build MVC Architecture with Angular JS.  ? Coded Angular.js controllers and directives for application functionality.  ? Implemented CSS3 and JavaScript based navigation system visually identical to previous table-based system to improve ease of maintenance and search engine placement.  ? Developed page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management review.    Environment: HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Ext.js, JSON, DOM, AJAX, LESS, Angular.js, Agile, Bootstrap, Eclipse, JSP and Windows. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (5 years), BOOTSTRAP (5 years), CSS (5 years), HTML (5 years), JAVASCRIPT (5 years), Front-End, UI, React, Front End, Angular Additional Information Technical Skills:  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XHTML, XSLT, AJAX, XML, JSON, XPath, Grunt, Gulp, Karma, Jasmine  Frameworks jQuery, Angular6, Bootstrap, Backbone.js, React.js, knockout.js, D3.js, Dojo, Kendo UI, CanJS, Express JS, Node JS    Operating Systems Windows, iOS, Linux, Unix  IDE, Editors: Brackets, Eclipse IDE, Notepad++, Adobe Dreamweaver, Net Beans IDE, Atom, Sublime  Databases Oracle 11g, SQL Server, My SQL server, MongoDB  Web Servers HTTP Web Server, Apache Tomcat, Web logic  Java Technologies Core Java, J2EE, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JSF, Spring and RESTful Web services  Web Browsers Chrome, Firefox, Opera, Safari, IE  FTP/SFTP FileZilla, Putty, WinSCP  Web: Responsive, Mobile-first UI, Web 2.0, Cross-browser, Cross-device  Content Management Sys: WordPress, Expression Engine, Concrete5, Cushy CMS  SDLC Waterfall, Agile, Scrum  Version Tools JIRA, CVS, Git, Tortoise  Tools Tableau, Android, PhoneGap,