ReactJS/ UI Developer ReactJS/ UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> ReactJS/ UI Developer - Equifax Work Experience ReactJS/ UI Developer Equifax - St. Louis, MO November 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked on web applications from scratch using Angular 2/4 to develop single page application.  • Designed and developed the layout of the application using HTML4.0/HTML5, CSS/CSS3 and Bootstrap 3.3.4.  • Created multiple reusable components and services using Angular 2/4 built-in and custom directives.  • Used Angular 2/4 and Node.JS to structure JavaScript code in an MVC (Model, View, and Controller).  • Developed backend web services using Node JS and stored dependencies using NPM.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, Angular 2/4, Wire-framing, HTML5.  • Created Filters, Directives, Controllers and Services by using Angular2/4.  • Created Angular 2/4 controllers, factories, filters, Routers, and services.  • Used Angular 2/4 Dependency Injection (DI) to inject Angular Services and Custom Services, as well as built custom Directives to provide reusable component.  • Adopted JavaScript and jQuery 1.1.0 to manipulate DOM, basic logic and event handlers.  • Involved in implementation of RESTFUL web service APIs using Node.js.  • Debugged and logged using Chrome developer tools, configured test environment using Karma and wrote unit test using Jasmine.  • Adopted Git for version controlling and JIRA for project tracking.  • Used Web pack & NPM, Bower for package management.  • Performed CRUD operations in the Mongodb database.  • Expertise in React JS framework to develop the SPA..  • Experience in building Single Page Application (SPA) using Angular 1.x/Angular2/Angular4 and ReactJS framework.  • Used agile methodology for the software development life cycle.  • Used Gulp as the build task runner to build and package the application.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and worked on different browsers like Internet Explorer, Firefox and Google Chrome.  • Participating the Sprint Planning and User Story Grooming sessions and suggesting can-do and cannot-do in each Sprint.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, JIRA, Bootstrap, React js, Node.js, Angular2/4, MongoDB, Git, Karma, Jasmine. Web/ UI Developer Share Care - Atlanta, GA June 2017 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  • Involved in web designing using AngularJs, HTML 4/5, XHTML, CSS 2/3, JavaScript and extensively used Table less Design in CSS for positioning.  • Developed the chat application single handedly to be responsive for 3 applications (auto, home and service online).  • Developed page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management review.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like AngularJS.  • Highly used Angular router to build single page application for navigation through the different status and multiple modals.  • Implement functionality such as Searching, Filtering, Sorting and validating data using Angular framework.  • Developed and tested features in an AGILE environment using Angular-2 and Advanced JavaScript.  • Responsible for developing reusable components using Custom Directives and routing based on states using UI-Routing in AngularJS.  • Developing Angular factories that can be reused where ever they fit in by injecting them.  • Sending requests and responses in Micro services through SPRING - REST Controllers through HTTPS.  • Consumed REST based Micro services with REST template based on RESTful APIs.  • Used AngularJS native features extensively to develop Mobile First Application.  • Used jQuery to make the HTML, DHTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Developed client-side AJAX application that uses XSLT, XPath, JavaScript OOP, and more Bind objects and retrieve them via JNDI interface.  • Followed Agile and Cassandra and reactive programming methodologies.  • Co-ordinate with QA for testing, Production releases, Application deployment and integration.  • Used GIT version control.    Environment: Java, HTML4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, JQuery, DHTML, MVC, DOM, JSON, AngularJS, Node JS, React JS, JSP, AJAX. Software Developer Highmark Inc - Allentown, PA November 2015 to March 2017 Highmark is one of the largest health insurance companies in the Unites States. Worked as a developer at Highmark on a project, which was a web-based application mainly used by the Administrative Department of Highmark.  Responsibilities:  • Implemented user-friendly UI design with HTML5 and CSS3.  • Created and tested different front-end forms using AJAX, JavaScript, Angular JS and CSS.  • Implemented various JavaScript/jQuery effects on the pages.  • Used Angular JS and jQuery library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Used NodeJS to run Webpack tasks and build properly the project.  • Re-designed/ developed the main website to improve user experience and add new functionality by using NodeJS.  • Build stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Experienced in and working with React Flux architecture.  • Experienced in working with Redux architecture.  • Working with ECMA Script 6 features. For build of JSX and [ ] used Babel, webpack.  • Working with React Router for developing Single Page Applications SPAs.  • Experienced in developing React components.  • Used Axios with react or making AJAX Calls.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Java Script Ajax, JSON, XML, Express JS, NodeJS, Bootstrap. UI Developer Rexel Holdings - Dallas, TX October 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed multiple POCs to create a user interface in Angular JS.  • Knowledge in using Angular JS, Flux for SPA development.  • Implemented client-side Interface using Angular JS.  • Good experience in JavaScript MVC framework like Angular JS.  • Responsible for design and development of the web pages from mock- ups (PSD).  • Daily programming in server and client side by using Angular2.  • Worked on Front end by using Angular 2, and JavaScript Frameworks.  • Extensive use of Angular2 for developing the SPAs (Single Page Applications) for internal application/tool.  • Worked on Angular2 directives, Controllers, Filters, Services, Templets, Events and Injectors.  • Extensive knowledge of and use of Angular2 directives to bring additional functionality to HTML.  • Good knowledge in Angular 2 and Responsive Web Design.  • Used Node JS,Angular 2 and MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications.  • Worked in using Angular 2 components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Designed and developed CSS behaviors, CSS styles, CSS fonts, CSS buttons, Pseudo Classes in CSS.  • Experience in Using SASS and LESS  • Implemented Routers& History in Single Page App (SPA).  • Developed client side drop down menus, search bars and drop down toggles using Twitter-Bootstrap.  • Used JSON for data exchange between client and server.  • Design and Develop Micro services platform to support a multitude of enterprise level applications.  • Created Responsive Web Design using Bootstrap.  • Utilize Jasmine, Karma, Gulp and NPM to build and test applications.  • Performed unit testing using Jasmine and end to end testing using Protractor.  • Used the new tags from HTML5 like section, article, header, footer, canvas for animations.  Environment: Angular2, Angular JS Node.JS, JavaScript, JQuery, Twitter Bootstrap, Ajax, HTML5, CSS3, SVN, Sublime, Maven, GIT, TDD, Jasmine, Karma, Gulp, Grunt, Spring MVC, Protractor, Micro Services. Web Developer Franklin Templeton - IN March 2013 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed web pages using HTML, DHTML, XHTML, DOM, CSS, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  • Designed and implemented different layouts using HTML and CSS.  • Implemented applications using Twitter Bootstrap framework.  • Designed table-less layouts using CSS and appropriate HTML tags as per W3C standards.  • Debug the application using Firebug too traverse the documents and manipulated the nodes using DOM and DOM functions.  • Worked on portals for developing patient online ordering using JavaScript, jQuery and Ajax.  • Created images, logos and icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Photoshop.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Worked with JSON for data exchange between client and server.  • Developed the pages that are complaint to W3C and ADA standards.  • Component level design and defined the usage of AJAX to reuse the network bandwidth efficiently and making feel that the user resides in the same page of our website.  • Uses JavaScript for custom client-side validation.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, JSTL, XML, XHTML, DHTML, Eclipse, Adobe Dreamweaver, JIRA, Twitter bootstrap, SVN, CVS, GIT, PHP, ClearQuest, Harvest, Adobe Photoshop and MS Office.