UI/UX Designer UI/UX Designer Graphic Designer, Illustrator, Front End Developer Thomasville, NC Work Experience UI/UX Designer Slate Development - Lehi, UT April 2015 to March 2017 • Designed high-end mobile & desktop apps.    • Created wire-frames, mock-ups, and visual design for web and mobile apps with style guides and design specifications for the development team.    • Provided branding and creative direction as well as product UI/UX for startups and brands from concept to delivery. Sr. Designer Veracity Insurance Solutions - American Fork, UT September 2013 to April 2015 • Created new brand guidelines and marketing assets for five different insurance programs.    • Designed and updated all websites to be mobile friendly(responsive design).    • Boosted policy sells over 300% from the previous year.    • Conversions increased by 120% month over month for the first year. Web Designer / Front End Developer Avoya Travel - Vista, CA December 2012 to August 2013 Developed and designed custom optimization plans and user flow to boost lead conversion on several supplier websites. Developed custom forms and calls to action (CTAs) that lead to over 150% boost in lead conversion, and ultimately higher sales. Also mocked up a sent to production many print CTAs for magazines, direct mail pieces, and custom internal use print collateral. Front End Developer / Senior Designer Strudelhosen - American Fork, UT June 2012 to October 2012 Designed, Illustrated and Developed for a several local businesses. Created custom mobile apps for the Bank of American Fork. Started a content conversion, and strategy product for the clients we serve. Web Designer/ Developer Prosper Inc - Provo, UT May 2011 to June 2012 Designed Wordpress e-commerce sites for clients all around the world Web Designer Marketecture - Orem, UT January 2007 to April 2010 Designed and Branded over 100 e-commerce start up companies around the country. Education AS in Web Design and Animation Provo College - American Fork, UT 2011 to 2012 Skills Graphic Design, Illustration, OSX, Web Design, HTML5, CSS3, Wordpress, Adobe Creative Suite, Responsive Design, Typography, Critical Thinking, Problem Solving Links http://behance.net/tshawnolson