Front End Developer Front End <span class="hl">Developer</span> Chicago, IL I am a front-end developer with about four years of commercial experience. I create web applications using ReactJS. I spend my free time reading interesting things related to front-end developing. Every day I improve my branch skills creating small applications at home. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer PGS Software S.A. - Rzeszow August 2018 to Present • implementing and testing new functionalities taking into account different browsers, platforms and devices,  • preparing functionalities to make them available for disabled people - level AA,   • estimating time to build new features,   • optimizing of existing functionalities,   • localizing bugs and fixing them,   • making code reviews and suggesting better solutions.  Front End Developer Makeitright sp. z o.o - Rzeszow April 2017 to August 2018 • implementing and testing new functionalities taking into account different browsers, platforms and devices,  • estimating time to build new features,   • suggesting technical solutions,   • making code reviews,   • localizing bugs and fixing them.  Front End Developer Technetium sp. z o.o. - Rzeszow April 2016 to April 2017 • close cooperation with back-end developers and a design team in order to deliver very good quality of web pages,  • estimating time to build a front-end layer of a whole web page,  • localizing bugs and fixing them.  Front End Developer MCX Systems sp. z o.o. - Rzeszow November 2015 to January 2016 • implementing and testing new functionalities taking into account different browsers, platforms and devices,  • estimating time to build new features Internship: Web Developer OPTeam S.A. - Rzeszow March 2015 to June 2015 • converting .psd files to static web sites using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  Apprenticeship: Manual Tester OPTeam S.A. - Rzeszow July 2014 to July 2014 • Manual testing desktop and web applications.  Education Master's in Computer Science University of Rzeszow - Rzeszow September 2015 to September 2017 Bachelor's in Computer Science University of Rzeszow - Rzeszow September 2012 to September 2015 High school or equivalent in Information Technology Bohaterow Wrzesnia Information Technology Technical School in Jaslo - Jaslo September 2008 to June 2012 Skills CSS3, Front-End, React, Javascript, Front End, HTML 5, Photoshop, Avocode, SASS, BEM, RWD, Bootstrap, JQuery, ES5, ES6+, Typescript, Redux, REST API, Jest, Enzyme, Git, Webpack, JIRA, Scrum, SQL Additional Information Polish - native  English - B2