WEB DEVELOPER <span class="hl">WEB</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> WEB DEVELOPER - Census Bureau of the Census Upper Marlboro, MD Interest in learning and implementing new skills and technologies for the betterment of the organization. Work Experience WEB DEVELOPER Census Bureau of the Census - Suitland, MD March 2015 to Present Develop and Disseminate data for a new product releases, and/or updating existing web content using Adobe AEM and SharePoint; Communicate effectively with Management, customers and other support team; Serve as technical expert for projects assigned; Responsible for creating and maintaining Internet design and content for public consumption; Research background material for new projects and suggesting alternatives based on technical expertise; Identify and solve problems and adjust priorities to ensure program objectives and time schedules are met. American Community Survey Office March 2008 to March 2015 Design, develop, test, and implement products for dissemination of the American Community Survey (ACS) intranet and internet websites. Played a major role in the redesign and release of the new ACS internet website using Mantis bug tracker and Movable Type development tool. Serve as main communication between the web development team and web content team. Work on a wide variety of tasks as backup personnel including system, database and website administration. Responsible for creating and maintaining software documentation. Serve as a team lead with experience using HTML, CSS, PHP, JavaScript and MySQL to train other team members how to perform web development tasks. Demographic Surveys Division - HSPB June 1987 to March 2008 Part of processing team for Dolphin (Dynamic Online Process Handling Interface), a web based tool that helps manage paper surveys. DOLPHIN was written in PHP using a MySQL database and accessed by intranet only. The process uses email to facilitate communication between the Census Regional Offices, Headquarters, DSD analysts and programmers. Reports produced included Field Rep assignments, survey response, transmittals and various summary reports. Education BS in Mathematics in Mathematics Benedict College 1984