Freelance Web Developer Freelance <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Freelance Web Developer Cooper City, FL Work Experience Freelance Web Developer Hollywood, FL May 2017 to July 2019 • Designed and developed websites using HTML, JavaScript, SQL and PHP including frameworks such as WordPress, Laravel.  • Supervised troubleshooting of technical issues and solved problems within a reasonable time-frame.  • Analyzed requirements, designed, developed and implemented software applications for multiple websites.  • Performed SEO and consulted on online marketing strategies. Procurement Manager State Budget Institution "Cultural Center ZIL" - Moscow, RU February 2014 to February 2016 Russian Federation  • Maintained contact with store managers and facility management associates and created work orders and purchase orders to replace faulty or unsafe equipment.  • Researched new vendors and partners in order to obtain the most cost-effective pricing for goods.  • Analyzed, inputted and reported data covering all aspects of procurement operations using 1C: Accounting software.  • Developed new procedures for handling order documents in compliance with changed government regulations.  • Prepared monthly reports for Moscow Department of Culture and Moscow Department of Finance. Internet Sales Analyst Omaliz LLC - Moscow, RU February 2012 to May 2013 Russian Federation  • Identified, analyzed and reported potential products, markets and advertising opportunities.  • Collected and analyzed data on established and prospective customers, competitors and marketing channels.  • Prepared reports that interpret consumer behavior, trends and marketing results.  • Updated company website with deals and product packages. Education Master of Science in Management Information Systems Nova Southeastern University - Davie, FL May 2017 to May 2019 Master of Economics in International Business Moscow State Institute of International Relations - Moscow, RU September 2013 to June 2015 Bachelor of Commerce in International Economics Moscow State Institute of International Relations - Moscow, RU September 2007 to June 2011 Skills HTML, JAVASCRIPT, PHP, PYTHON, DATA VISUALIZATION, MACHINE LEARNING, POWER BI, PREDICTIVE ANALYTICS, TABLEAU, DATA ANALYSIS, SQL, SAP, SEO, BI, WORDPRESS, VISUALIZATION, BUSINESS ANALYSIS, Jquery, Bootstrap, HTML5, Front End Assessments Search Engine Optimization — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/rwthqnb9tmnoxpyz Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.