Sr. Web Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Web Developer - LoadTap - Logistics Management Company Chicago, IL 8+ years of IT experience with hands-on development with extensive expertise analyzing, designing and developing Web Applications using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, PHP, JavaScript, Front - End. Extensive experience in the creation of software solutions and the abstraction process for business tasks, such as design, analysis and development of Applications( Web, Desktop and Phone), Tasks, API's, REST API, Frameworks, and Procedures, using different technologies like HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, PHP, JavaScript, REACT, Redux,jQuery, jQuery UI, jQuery Mobile, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Java, MongoDB, Node.js, SQL Server.  • Senior Web Developer with extensive Front - End and JQuery, jQuery UIWeb Development experience.  • Strong experience developing Web Apps and Landing pages.  • Experience creating REST APIS, RPC for Websockets and SOAP Services with PHP and Nodejs.  • Strong experience with Responsive Web Design.  • Experience with CSS3 and CSS3 Frameworks and animations.  • Extensive experience with Angular 1 and 1.6framework for development of single page applications.  • Experience with React Framework for WebApps.  • Extensive Experience in JQuery, jQuery UIdevelopment.  • Full lifecycle development experience.  • Extensive experience with SQL Server and TSQL.  • Experience with SOAP Services consumption.  • Experience creating in house PHP MVC framework.  • Experience creating Business Landing page.  • Experience creating complex architectures.  • Experience creating classes and libraries for JavaScript and PHPbolierplate(Responsive font size, background image adjustment, database access, etc) • Experience using SaaS such as Heroku and Compose.  • Experience creating PDF Documents and Documents Formats.  • Experience using cache strategies to boost response time and save resources.  • Extensive Experience using Subversion and Git as version control systems.  • Experience in working with customers, analyzing their business model and taking their needs and requirements to software specs.  • Autodidactic, fast learner, passionate and hardworking, capable of learning anything very fast.  • Extensive experience developing for transnational companies and also for providing services for their clients. Work Experience Sr. Web Developer LoadTap - Logistics Management Company - Redwood City, CA August 2017 to Present Projects: LoadTap Application design    Environment:HTML5, CSS3, Nodejs, Reactjs, Redux, Webpack  Description: Application designed to fetch shipments, trucks, and drivers to show them in a clean way for the user. Loadtap connects capacity providers to TMS through real-time track and trace, automated dispatching, and load-and-truck matching. Loadtap provides a frictionless experience operations and capacity providers.  Responsibilities: • Studied the actual process and gathered the requirements • Create interface for several app views, including: Shipment tracking, truck tracking and driver's registered.  • Create a background process to continuously compare drivers and shipments and send an SMS to notify drivers.  • Work on an implementation of the responsive design.  • Gave interface ideas in the design phase.  • Used Redux for handling state • Used Redux for the search bar works within a reducer • Rest API and websocket events handled with the Redux-thunk dispatcher • Refactor code using the ES6 standard.  • Upgrade and continue with other developers' code.  • Tested some modules according to the specifications.  • Continuous meetings to see progress.  • Implemented the Front - End based on the provided design.  • Decide which technology and approach is best for the job.  • Build the application as SPA with smooth transitions to make it feel mobile-like even when on desktop view. Sr. Web Developer JAK- Fleet Company - El Paso, TX December 2015 to August 2017 Projects: Multiple Projects  Projects: TCTS  Environment:PHP, Angularjs, Azure, Amazon EC2, MySQL, SQLServer, Google Maps, Jquery.    Description:JAK is an American Transnational Fleet company. This company brings logistic services to freight brokers. As Frontend and Backend developer was in charge of creating a web app with the capacity of giving the opportunity to our clients of schedule their transportation trips and also being able to track them.    Responsibilities: • Front End Design with Angular JS and Jquery.  • Implementation of Google maps for tracking the position and the route of every trip.  • Add methods of consultation to a RPC PHP file.  • Make the catalogues for every city, unit, trailer and stop off that we have the scope on.  • Implementingjqgrid for listing the trips.  • Implementing JWT tokens for the security and session management.  • Create Azure database for client access.  • Maintenance of the Web App.  • Database Administration using MySQL, SQL Server and MongoDB • Participation in the architecture design of the web app.  • Managing access between the in house servers and Amazon.  • Validation of IP Addresses.  • Wizard type of UI development and design.  • Consumption of the routes • AngularUI implementation    Project:Diesel and Travel Allowances  Environment:Play Framework, Nodejs ,WebSockets, JAVA, PHP, Reactjs, Redux, SOAP, TFTP.    Description: Development and maintenance of a web app and service which purpose it to make dispersions of diesel deposits and money for every trip made in the company according to the drivers route.    Responsibilities: • Designed and developed for a web Service and a web app.  • Direct meetings with the finance department of the company.  • Websocket implementation • REST API • RPC Websocket.  • SQ Server Database.  • REACTJS components • Used Redux for handling state • Used Redux for the search bar works within a reducer • Rest API and websocket events handled with the Redux-thunk dispatcher    Project: DPS, Drivers Payment System  Environment:Nodejs, React JS, REST API, Express, Jquery, SQL Server, Google Material Design.Websockets (Socket IO)    Description:This system is in charge of the payment process for Drivers, it consists of 6 areas, and all of them are chained one to the other. In charge to create a process that makes the payment process more agile to the drivers.In charge of developing a web app that calculates the payment of the driver. This system is practically involved in the most important areas of the operation of the business.    Responsibilities: • Designed and developed of a Responsive web app.  • Planning and scheduling with every area of the business for taking up requirements and could start with the design.  • Design of the process.  • Making new databases for the new data.  • Constant communication with every person in charge of all the involved areas.  • Implementing web sockets.  • REST API with Express js.  • Implementing Google material rules for the design of the Frontend.  • JWT • Consume 3rd party services SOAP, to get all the diesel deposits of each unit.  CSS3 Animations.  • SVG • SQL Server Database management.  • Mongo DB.    Project: EDI  Description:This webapp consumes one of our clients TFTP services which updates periodically the trip requests they made to their providers, this webapp is meant for accepting those requests and also edit the trip data and the stopoffs of it.    Responsibilities: • Analysis, Design and Development of whole System.  • Create REST API • Creation of programmed PDF reports.  • Front End Responsive Web Development • Integration with the Inventory System • Integration with the provider system Web Developer Transervicios - Logistics service May 2012 to December 2015 Projects: Multiple Projects  Project: SILLA  Environment:HTML/HTML5, ios, CSS/CSS3, jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap, PHP, InHouse PHP MVC FW, SQL Server.    Description:Transerviciosis dedicated to logistic services for factories and military complex. As the Lead Developer and Designer I was giving support to the Tire shop inherited web app, this app consist in the administration of the company's Tires.    Responsibilities: • Lead analyst, designer and developer of entire system.  • REST API design and development.  • Support , design and development of a PHP MVC Framework exclusively made for the support of this platform.  • Frontend responsive Web App Based on Angular JS • PDF with FPDF report generation.  • JS charts implementation.  • SQLT store procedure management and creation.  • Database management.  • Link the Shopping API • In charge of researching and using Git instead of Subversion.  • In charge of creating a process for tires allocation to providers.  • Design and development of a process for mark tires and increment its inventory identifier • Creation of tire departments for every tire disposition • Implementation of the system in every Transfer • Code refactoring.  • Main Analyst, Designer and Developer of whole System.  Project: Prerecibo  Environment:HTML, CSS, jQuery, SQL Server, PHP, XML, JavaScript, Angular JS, Bootstrap.  Description:This app consists of the register of all the stock purchases that crosses the gate of the company.  Responsibilities: • Register the of every stock purchase • JavaScript • Jquery • Angular • Frontend dev • Backend Consumption and status update    Project: Compras  Environment:HTML, CSS, jQuery, SQL Server, PHP, XML, JavaScript, Angular JS, Bootstrap.    Description:Analysis, Design and Development of a Web Application that allows to make requisitions of material to Providers and the Stock, and also administrate the order requirements and their invoices.    Responsibilities: • Analysis, Design and Development of whole System.  • Create REST API • Creation of programmed PDF reports • Front End Responsive Web Development • Integration with the Inventory System • Integration with the provider system Web Developer UACH- Educational Platform January 2010 to April 2012 Projects: Platform for picking classes and schedules  Environment: HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, PHP, MySQL.    Description: This platform helps to predict the number of classes needed for certain subjects for the next term, the students picks the classes that they are going to take for the next 6 months and the information was used for making new classes or cut them from schedule.  • Developer, designer.  • Dealing with the DB manager.  • Dealing with the server manager. Education Bachelor's Skills Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Php, Subversion, Xml, Dbms, Sql server, Mysql, Postgres, Sql, Sqlite, Angularjs, Html5, Soap, Rest, Java, jquery, MVC, C#, Drupal, NET, Angular