Senior Web Developer Senior <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Coldfusion Developer Springfield, VA Subject matter expertise experiences on ColdFusion technologies regarding application server administration, performance tuning, application server security, software upgrades.    DevOps understanding of concepts and technologies regarding TDD/BDD, feature toggles, branching strategy, CI/CD.    Diverse technology stack experience includes Coldfusion (all version), SQL server, .NET, Java, Oracle, Front-end framework (Bootstrap), Javascript framework (Angular JS, React), MVC framework, Fusebox , TestBox, Dev Tools (Eclipse platfrom, Textpad++, Sublime), Source control (Git, Dementions, TFS, VSS), Workflows (Leankit, HP Quality Center), Standards (Agile Scrum/Kanban, 508 Compliance).    Recent experiences in the convert and combine 60 web application s into a single web application.  Restoration of production application servers from a catastrophic hardware failure. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Web Developer Meritore (Contractor) September 2018 to Present Consolidate multiple Coldfusion applications into a single central application.  Convert code from CF MX7 to work in CF 11 and database from VFP to MS SQL. ColdFusion Developer Knightpoints Systems - VA February 2017 to September 2018 Provided support for multiple USCIS web applications within the Department of Homeland Security (DHS)  Daily meeting with customers for requirements, design, document, development, testing, demonstration, support user acceptance testing, and production released.   Technology using are Coldfusion 11, HTML/CSS, Ajax, JavaScript, SQL server 2014, GIThub, Leankit. Senior Web Developer NTT DATA Services - VA December 2016 to February 2017 Continue provide support for the Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR) within the Department of Justice (DOJ) Senior Web Developer Camber Corporation June 2011 to December 2016 Serve as one of the lead analysts and system architects for EOIR - CASE web system. CASE Application is a mission critical case management application combining the two primary EOIR applications: Automated Nationwide System for Immigration Review (ANSIR) and Board of Immigration Appeals Processing (BIAP) into a single unified web environment.    Responsibilities included conferring with the client to help establish system requirements; creating requirement specifications for new system components and enhancements to existing system elements; writing Engineering Change Plans to document changes; and confirming that the proposed modifications are consistent with the wishes of the client and compatible with the previously-deployed system. Consistently provided helpful input during the analysis, design, and planning stages. Writing new code, executed the test plans and ensured that new code was successfully implemented and incorporated into the existing system.    The Rapid Application Development (RAD) is Intranet database aware web applications created using the Cold Fusion 11, ldap, DHTML, Ajax, Javascript, DotNet, Sharepoint, ASP, Macromedia Dream-weaver and Fireworks. The data is stored in Microsoft SQL Server 2008. Senior Web Developer (consultant) Convergenz, LLC April 2011 to June 2011 Continue support for the Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA) within the Department of Defense (DOD):    Develop DCMA's Enterprise Integrated Toolset (EITS). EITS is a new way to interact with eTools functionality and data, resulting in improved workload management for DCMA users.    Meet with the DCMA senior employees to help establish system requirements, design and develop new code, executed the test plans and ensured that new code was successfully implemented.    These Rapid Application Development (RAD) is Intranet database aware web applications created using the Cold Fusion Development Suite(versions cf8), ldap, JQuery, Ajax, Javascript, Macromedia Dream-weaver. The data is stored in Oracle 10. Senior Web Developer (consultant) Convergenz, LLC December 2010 to April 2011 Provided web systems development efforts for the Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA) within the Department of Defense (DOD):    Web Request System (WRS) eTool is used to submit intranet and web page help requests to the web team and organizational webmasters    Accountable Property System (APS) application is used to track the issuance and return of DCMA property.    Military Online Personnel System (MOPS) web application.    Meet with the DCMA senior employees to help establish system requirements, design and develop new code, executed the test plans and ensured that new code was successfully implemented.    These Rapid Application Development (RAD) is Intranet database aware web applications created using the Cold Fusion 8, ldap, JQuery, Ajax, Javascript, Macromedia Dream-weaver. The data is stored in Oracle 10. Senior Web Developer Optimal Solutions and Technologies June 2010 to December 2010 Provided web systems development efforts for the Department of Homeland Security (DHS):    Fee Receipting System (FRS) is a mission critical financial management application to standardize fee receipting process at USCIS offices    Meet with the DHS senior employees to help establish system requirements, design and develop new code, executed the test plans and ensured that new code was successfully implemented.  FRS is database aware web applications created using the Cold Fusion 8, ldap, DHTML, Ajax, Javascript, Macromedia Dream-weaver. The data is stored in SQL Server 2005. Senior Web Developer Avaya Government Solutions July 2008 to June 2010 Continue provide support for the Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR) within the Department of Justice (DOJ):    Served as one of the lead analysts and system architects for EOIR - CASE web system.    Responsibilities included conferring with the client to help establish system requirements; creating requirement specifications for new system components and enhancements to existing system elements; writing Engineering Change Plans to document changes; and confirming that the proposed modifications are consistent with the wishes of the client and compatible with the previously-deployed system. Consistently provided helpful input during the analysis, design, and planning stages. Written new code, executed the test plans and ensured that new code was successfully implemented and incorporated into the existing system.    The Rapid Application Development (RAD) is Intranet database aware web applications created using the Cold Fusion Development Suite (versions cf4.5, cf5, and cf9), ldap, DHTML, Ajax, Javascript, DotNet, ASP, Macromedia Dream-weaver and Fireworks. The data is stored in Microsoft SQL Server. Senior Web Developer LockHeed Martin Corps May 2008 to July 2008 Provided web systems development efforts for the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) within the Department of Transportation (DOT):    KITT Application is a mission critical financial management application to track all of the FAA contracts.    Meet with the FAA senior employee to help establish system requirements, design and develop new code, executed the test plans and ensured that new code was successfully implemented.  KITT is Intranet database aware web applications created using the Cold Fusion MX7, DHTML, Ajax, Javascript, Macromedia Dream-weaver. The data is stored in Oracle database. Senior Web Developer Nortel Government Solutions October 2004 to May 2008 Served as one of the lead analysts and system architects for EOIR - CASE web system.    Responsibilities included conferring with the client to help establish system requirements; creating requirement specifications for new system components and enhancements to existing system elements; writing Engineering Change Plans to document changes; and confirming that the proposed modifications are consistent with the wishes of the client and compatible with the previously-deployed system. Consistently provided helpful input during the analysis, design, and planning stages. Written new code, executed the test plans and ensured that new code was successfully implemented and incorporated into the existing system    The Rapid Application Development (RAD) is Intranet database aware web applications created using the Cold Fusion Development Suite, DHTML, Javascript, DotNet, ASP, Macromedia Dream-weaver and Fireworks. The data is stored in Microsoft SQL Server. Senior Web Developer Perot System Government Services / Soza Ltd October 1999 to October 2004 Provided various systems development efforts for the Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR) within the Department of Justice (DOJ):    CASE Application is a mission critical case management application combining the two primary EOIR applications: Automated Nationwide System for Immigration Review (ANSIR) and Board of Immigration Appeals Processing (BIAP) into a single unified web environment.    IRM Intranet Request for Action Application was designed to enable the tracking of all requests inside the EOIR environment.    Correspondence Tracking Application System that was designed to be accurately tracked all correspondence files that is received from and responded to between EOIR office and other government agencies.    These Rapid Application Development (RAD) are Internet / Intranet database aware web applications created using the Cold Fusion Development Suite, DHTML, Javascript, DotNet, ASP, Macromedia Dream-weaver and Fireworks. The data is stored in Microsoft SQL Server and Microsoft Access databases.    Accomplishments / Award: Senior Web Developer Perot System Government Services / Soza Ltd 2001 to 2001 Letter of Appreciation, Soza & Company Ltd, 2001. Senior Web Developer Perot System Government Services / Soza Ltd 2000 to 2000 Status: Education B.S. in Computer Sciences George Mason University 1996 to 1999 Skills HTML, XML, Javascript, jQuery Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Assessments Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient May 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/e0z6lipbp7syi4yj Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.