Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - Sevatec, Inc Temple Hills, MD Motivated experienced web developer with expertise in creating custom websites through HTML and CSS. Strong collaboration skills and proven history in developing and maintaining web pages using Dreamweaver, Vignette CMS, JavaScript, and SQL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Sevatec, Inc April 2013 to Present Works as a contractor for the Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), supporting its Safety program by developing user interface and navigation for public and Intranet websites to ensure that good usability practices are implemented and appearance is standardized.  ? Creates, edits and maintains web pages, layout, user interface using Adobe Dreamweaver, HTML and CSS practices.  ? Designs, implements and monitors web pages and sites for continuous improvement.  ? Uses programming capabilities in HTML, CSS, SQL and JavaScript and other libraries as needed.  ? Works with the team to design and build solutions that are aligned with the customer's business objectives.  ? Designed sites to be compatible with top browsers, including Firefox, Chrome and Safari.  ? Ensures that the proposed web presence complies with all standards, procedures customer requirements and Section 508 standards.  ? Creates/edits/tags PDFs using Adobe Acrobat and CommonLook to ensure all accessibility and Section 508 standards are met.  ? Tests websites and performs troubleshooting, addressing and resolving any issues in a timely and quality manner. Web Developer INDUS Corporation January 2009 to April 2013 Contractor to Department of Transportation providing web developer support to its Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) division  ? Develop and design web pages for FHWA's various programs.  ? Ensures that the proposed web presence complies with all standards, procedures customer requirements and Section 508 standards.  ? Manages customer satisfaction by taking accountability for addressing needs and concerns.  ? Takes ownership of assignments and seeks to increase level of responsibility as possible.  ? Demonstrates the ability to work autonomously and as a team member.  ? Completes tasks on schedule and in a quality manner.  ? Follows through on tasks and communication with the applicable clients and/or team members.  ? Resolves problems in a quick and effective manner and communicate to the applicable team members, including the elevation of critical risks to senior management. Education Associate in Computer Information Systems Prince George's Community College - Largo, MD September 1998 to May 2001 Skills DEVELOPMENT/DESIGN, OPTIMIZATION, PROBLEM SOLVING, HTML, Javascript Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE:  • Advanced web development/design skills  • Excellent problem solving skills  • Website optimization