Sr.Net Developer Sr.Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Ashburn, VA • Has 18 years of Software Industry experience with SDLC in both Web and Client Server technologies.  • Proficient in web technologies and e-commerce applications using C#.net, ASP.NET, MVC, MVP, Angular JS, Bootstrapper, Web Api, Restful Services, ASP, ADO.NET, VB.net, TIBCO, JSON, JQuery, CAML, WCF, Web Services, SharePoint 2010/2007, K2 Workflows, Crystal Reports, ADO, ODBC, HTML, XML, Java Script, VB Script, CSS, IIS, SQL Server2005, Oracle 10G and 11G, Access 2007, Pervasive, 508 Compliance, Agile Methodology.  • Proficient in web technologies using J2EE Technologies and Web Frameworks Java, JSF, JSP, EJB, JDBC, XML, MVC, Spring MVC, and Hibernate.  • Extensively worked on SQL Server, Oracle and MS-Access databases. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr.Net Developer General Dynamics (GDIT), USCIS August 2011 to Present Description: GDIT supports the mission-related operations of DHS' U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) Office of Information Technology. The services include full life-cycle support for all phases of systems engineering and development, production, software application operations, configuration management, training, service desk support, and IT security.    Responsibilities:  • Extensively followed agile process to deliver the product to the client.  • Worked extensively with the requirements team in analyzing the requirements and implementing them.  • Worked on all the tiers in the development of forms.  • Responsible for the conversion of DOS applications to .NET, Print Server, Notice Generation, Batch Status Utility.  • Responsible for the Single Sign on for the Claims3 portal and other services that were dependent on Claims.  • Responsible for the whole new project of implementing the legacy Print Server to the New Generation using TIBCO and ESB Queues to send the jobs to ESB and then EPMS printing them. The data from the CLAIMS3 project is converted to NEIM standard which is used across multiple departments to transmit the data.  • Worked on the enhancements for the Card Printing through TIBCO and ESB queues, where the CLAIMS3 data is transmitted to ESB for printing the images and the data is also sent to the ICMS service.  • Responsible for the design and development of the Lockbox Case Ingest where JPMC send the files through the XML and NEIM Standards and we had to develop the service that could parse the data and save the data in CLAIMS 3 System.  • Worked on the WCF in Case Transfer Project where the service is used to transmit the data from one Service Center to another Service Center electronically. Previously this was a manual process of weekly uploading the data or physically mailing the files. These services were cross functional across the services to send and receive the data electronically.  • Worked on the design and development of the Ingestion of the JSON file from JPMC using JSON queues and specific for certain forms and parsing the file following the rules and validations, and ingesting the data into CLAIMS3.  • Worked on the CLAIMS3 Portal in converting 70 DOS and Visual Basic forms to .NET forms and heavily involved with the requirements team for the rule and validations, C#.NET 4.5 was used for the front end and Oracle 12 G was the database, heavily involved with the front end with the 508, middle layer with the business rules and validations and backend with the stored procedures and saving the data.    Environment: ASP.NET MVC, C#.NET 4.5, Oracle 12G, Visual Studio 2013, JSON, TIBCO, ESB, NIEM Compliance, Team Foundation Server, WCF, Web API, Windows Services, Pervasive, 508 Compliant, LINQ. Sr. Applications Developer Booz Allen Hamilton June 2010 to July 2011 06/10 - 07/11  Description: FEMA Universal Tracker was developed using SharePoint 2007, K2 Workflows, Sql Server 2005, Jquery, CAML, Web Parts, Custom Fields and Event Handlers were used to create a Case Management System.    VIPR System: Account Management System developed using .NET 3.5, Oracle 11g, Stored Procedures, Telerik Controls.    Responsibilities:  • Lead the team for the Universal Tracker and lead the VIPR enhancements using c# .net and Oracle.  • Worked on the VIPR Production issues and researched on their root causes.  • Worked extensively on Oracle packages, stored procedures.  • Used Web Services in the SharePoint development using OOB features.  Used JQUERY and CAML queries to retrieve data.    Environment: ASP.NET, C#.NET 3.5, JQUERY, CAML, Telerik Controls, Visual Studio 2008, Oracle 11G, Windows 2003, Sharepoint, K2 BlackPearl, Visual Source Safe, MSI. Sr. Application Developer CACI October 2009 to June 2010 10/09 - 06/10  Description: AOS represents the first time Army has developed a comprehensive hierarchical representation of the authorized Army Force Structure available for net centric inter governmental Use, AOS data structure is based on J8 MASO defined GFMIEDM Data Model.AOS is developed using Web Services in C# and oracle on the backend.    Responsibilities:  • Lead the AOS team enhancements using C#web services and Oracle.  • Worked on the AOS Production issues and researched on their root causes.  • Worked extensively on Oracle packages, stored procedures.  • Worked on the FMS trouble tickets.  • Created some document on the Installation of Web services and its usage.  • Used IChart the third party tool for the Data interpretation of Web Service Response.    Environment: Web Services, C#.NET 3.5, IChart 3.5, Visual Studio 2008, Oracle 10G, Windows XP, Team Foundation Server, Wise Packaging. Sr. Web Developer Citizant October 2007 to October 2009 Description: Involved in the development of software for DoD on DARMIS (Defense Acquisition Regulations Management Information System).    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for analyzing the requirements, designing and developing the application to ensure  all requirements are met. Led the Crystal reports portion of the project.  • Works with Oracle 10g database using ADO.NET  • Uses ASP.NET server controls for the user interface, and Validation controls for validation  • Ensures ASP.NET 2.0 master pages are used to provide consistent look across the application  • Responsible for the development of the Crystal Reports  • Responsible for fixing the security vulnerabilities found by Ounce scans from AT&L  • Coordinates with client (AT&L) to deploy the Crystal Reports in production environment  • Also working on the J2EE application for the HUD using JSP, J2EE, Struts, Oracle as the Database.    Environment: C#.NET 2.0, ASP.NET 2.0, Visual Studio 2005, Oracle 10G, Crystal Reports 10.0, Windows Vista, JSP, J2EE, eclipse, Spring Framework, JDBC, SubVersion, Sun Application Server, Hibernate. Web Developer LoanToLearn April 2006 to October 2007 Description: Involved in the development of software for the internal website for LoanToLearn which is a student loan Processing company. Development was mainly on WorkFlow Application which uses C#.net, SQLServer2000, Web Services, ISI WorkFlow Controls, ASP.NET.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on the Internal Website with deals with the disbursement of Loans and the file processing.  • Led the disbursements development effort.  • Created Web Services using C#.net for the application.  • Worked extensively on Stored Procedures, DTS packages for the data processing.  • Worked on creating files for the banks and the servicing companies once the loans are approved.  • Worked with the ISI workflow product.  • Only developer worked on the backend process.  • Efficient in troubleshooting production issues.  • Worked with the testing team during the testing phase.    Environment: C#.NET 2.0, ASP.NET 2.0, Visual Studio 2005, ISI Workflow Product, SQL Server 2000, ARGO, Windows XP, Web Services. Web Developer AT&T July 2004 to February 2006 07/04 - 02/06  Description: Development of Software for the Army Reserve and National Guard projects which is mainly done using C#.net, ASP, Java Script, SQl Server 2000 is used as database. Involved in Retention Management Software, PMARS, Webs, Imarc.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with C#, HTML, JavaScript and Sql Sever 2000 as database. PDF files are used in the project.Involved in solving the high priority issues related in production.  • Extensively Worked on the Stored Procedures.  • Used Reporting Services for report generation.  Environment: C#.net 2.0, ASP.NET 2.0, Visual Studio 2005, IIS, SQL Server 2000, JavaScript, ADO.NET, Windows XP. Web Developer Mosaic Data Solutions, VA June 2002 to July 2004 Description: Active Server Pages is used for the development of intranet web sites. Extensively used VB Script, HTML, Java Script, c++ and COM Objects were created using Visual Basic 6.0 and also created a tool for the keyword search engine and acquisition imports, keyword and domain suppression processes.    Environment: ASP, XML, , XPATH, PMTA, Visual Basic 6.0, DLL's, CDO, DCOM, Visual Interdev 6.0, IIS, SQLServer2000, Oracle 8i, VBScript, JavaScript, FTP, ADO, Windows NT, Visual Source Safe, Crystal Reports. Web Developer EB Solutions, VA November 1999 to August 2001 Polygraph Information Tracking System  Description: The system is mainly developed for the use by the Polygraph unit and the office of International Operations, the intranet site is developed using ASP, HTML, Access, CSS, ADO, OBDC Connectivity.  Environment: HTML, ASP 2.0, VB Script, Visual Basic 6.0, VBA, Java Script, Photoshop, SQL Server 7.0, Oracle, MS Access, Win NT, IIS 4.0, MS Visual Interdev 6.0 Education Bachelor's in Engineering Certifications/Licenses Preparing for AWS Certification