Freelance business Freelance business Freelance business - www.columbiacrestmarketing.com Beaverton, OR Work Experience Freelance business www.columbiacrestmarketing.com May 2006 to Present Responsible for site creation, including Wordpress installation, setup and launch of client websites, content  management and for SEO and SEM for company sites with regular postings to site blogs, forums and other  marketing routes to help maintain Google and other search engine rankings. Content writing and proofreading  for client sites, including blog posts, copy and newsletters in email marketing campaigns. Creation and management of YouTube channels, Facebook ads and posts and membership sites using Wordpress and  WooSensei themes and plugins. Logo creation and PDF guides for clients to be used for promotional material  using Photoshop. Build squeeze pages and sales funnels for internet marketing and email marketing digital  products.  Link to sites: https://goo.gl/1wWA7a Lead Web Developer Bo Rinaldi and Associates - Beaverton, OR November 2014 to December 2018 Web Developer - responsible for creation and management of client websites on Wordpress platform using with emphasis on digital courses, membership, ecommerce and sales  pages. Use and extensive knowledge of robust plugins and themes including LearnDash, Optimize  Press and eMember and the Avada Theme for creating membership based sites requiring logins and client access. Content creating and management, including copy, proofread and approved revisions to  email blasts, blog posts and product descriptions. Make updates to core pages within sites for SEO and ranking. Set up hosting, mail servers using cpanel in LiquidWeb, GoDaddy. Team member that  collaborates on weekly tasks using Trello, Skype and InfusionSoft programs to meet clients'needs.  Built an entire database directory of domains to be sold on auction sites as well as internally. Helped  with inventory and fulfillment of hardware products including PDFs, CD/DVDs. Websites include, but not limited to: https://soniasommer.com, boknows.com, miguelruiz.com, drmaryclement.com,  proexecutivecoach.com, spiritofhomeopathy.com and veganfusion.com. Web Developer All Points Media - Beaverton, OR March 2014 to November 2014 Project Manager - Oversee operations and manage company websites for allpointsco.com, apmprintworks.com, cinchtraps.com. Create advertising brochures for marketing campaigns and regular edits to pages and weekly contributions to the blog, also with www.cinchtraps.com and www.allpointsco.com.  Create one-sheet mailers, email templates and other last-minute graphics for quick projects including content  writing and ad copy. Set up hosting, name servers & mail servers using cpanel in LiquidWeb, GoDaddy. Multi- tasking and wearing different hats for the three businesses. Also responsible for SEO monitoring of sites.    Skills  I have experience in many facets of web design. Aside from my website builds using Wordpress, many of my  sites are created as a Photoshop PSD file which is then sliced into css layers or html tables using Dreamweaver.  Editing and updating Wordpress themes and plugins to keep current with latest Wordpress standards and versions. I am a huge proponent to responsive sites so HTML5 and jquery mobile are languages I work in as  well. I can modify open source Javascripts and I use css layout to create pages with Photoshop. I am able to create a simple registration/login system database using PHP/MySQL 5.0 and can also create logos and graphic  backgrounds using Photoshop. Currently I am seeing several of my sites climbing the Google rankings due to my blogging, video marketing and SEO skills. I can now rank any website to a top page in Google and YouTube  utilizing a software that allows for live events while using long-tail highly targeted keywords.    Tools, Software & Programs Used  Adobe Suite, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, Dropbox, GoogleDocs, Google Drive, GitHub, Php-MyAdmin, MS  Excel, Wordpress Themes, WooCommerce, Wix, Squarespace, Shopify, Asana, Slack, Trello, GoogleHangouts, GetResponse, Mailchimp, Aweber, Basecamp, LiveStreamGenius Links http://www.columbiacrestmarketing.com