Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer - LinkedIn San Francisco Bay Area, CA Software engineer with 10 years of industry experience. Work Experience Software Engineer LinkedIn - Sunnyvale, CA March 2016 to Present I currently work on the CARE team, supporting LinkedIn's Help Center.  Previously, I worked on the ArtDeco team that build, own, and support the web implementation of our internal styleguide. I build Ember addons and use  Sass (Eyeglass) styling framework, and write lots of documentation. The team  produces components that help all frontend engineers at LinkedIn build a consistent look and feel across all of LinkedIn  I also worked on the Communications Platform Team, building and improving  custom UI components for the LinkedIn Blogs and marketing sites. Skills  involve Java, Javascript, CSS and HTML.  I supported the system that hosts the following LinkedIn sites (along with others):  • marketing.linkedin.com  • talent.linkedin.com  • sales.linkedin.com  I also developed the new Terms of Service pages after Microsoft acquired  LinkedIn giving the pages an updated look that aligns with LinkedIn's latest  designs. This was built on a Play framework (Scala) using Dust templating. Associate Web Developer Mountain View, CA February 2014 to March 2016 In this role, I took the technical lead role on the LearnIn team (internal product)  after contracting for 1 year. I managed all the hiring of contractors and coordinating with recruiters and other managers. I also scoped out how to get  LearnIn on LinkedIn technologies as well as develop the product roadmap  going forward. LearnIn Web Developer LinkedIn - Mountain View, CA June 2013 to February 2014 Joined as a contractor for the LearnIn team. I helped scoped out front-end  frameworks for LearnIn. In that process, I looked at Ember and Backbone as well as Knockout. Ultimately, we choose to use Backbone for the project.  Focusing on Backbone, NodeJS (with ExpressJS) and MongoDB, our goal  was to build a collaborative learning platform that aims help professionals  increase their learning of new skills and development of their careers. Also  included in this stack was AWS cloud storage, SASS, jQuery and RequireJS with unit testing done using Mocha and Grunt as the task runner.  Also helped to develop a standalone course application for LinkedIn  employees following along with Fred Kofman's Conscious Business book. This  was managed by a Python/Flask application with a homebrew (it was really  small) MVC javascript structure and a MySQL database. It was tested using  Cucumber (Ruby) running Selenium and PhantomJs.  I also assisted in maintaining a metrics app that helped take data from our  learning platform and putting the data into a MySQL database so that reports  can be easily generated which was then taken by a different team to put into Tableau dashboard. This also used a Python/Flask application.  Rosetta via TechSource Web Developer San Jose, CA May 2013 to June 2013 Took the lead role on the front end development of a new WordPress blog for McAfee.  Features that I worked on included:  - Creating a Twitter feed utilizing Twitter API and Wordpress transients for feed  caching  - Dynamically loading more posts as user scrolled (infinite scrolling)  - Database migration from old blog to new Wordpress blog  - Created a simple hit counter in the Wordpress theme to track popularity of content.  - Created the website UI and helped with responsive design to support iPhone, Android and tablets.  - Developed a trending tags widget to show most used tags  - Created a custom Wordpress theme options screen to allow the client to customize their website at ease. Web Developer LION Interactive - A Digital Agency - Oakland, CA February 2012 to April 2013 Worked on various Wordpress projects for a multitude of clients from custom  theme development to Wordpress plugins.  Notable features that I worked on included:  - Using a combination of Amazon S3 and Flowplayer to stream videos and programming custom interactions based on how the user interacted with the  video.  - Building WordPress themes catering to primarily the restaurant and lifestyle  industry.  - Responsive styling for all mobile devices across all projects.  - Building and customizing e-commerce websites to be integrated with Wordpress  With each project, I provided video documentation on how to operate various  features within Wordpress.  Military.com Associate Producer San Francisco Bay Area, CA February 2009 to February 2012 3 years 1 month)  San Francisco Bay Area  Assisted in content production and updating pages on Military.com.  Work included:  - Creating newsletters for members to inform them on the latest in military  news.  - Source new content focusing on military fitness, entertainment and the mixed  martials arts.  - Updated landing pages  I also developed custom Wordpress themes for new blogs. Web Developer Rattie Ratz - San Francisco Bay Area, CA August 2010 to October 2011 Migrated an existing website to Wordpress. Develop a custom Wordpress  website for the agency and provided training and documentation for future  website updates.  Features of the website includes:  - incorporating PayPal as an online donations system  - features to ease the adoption process by allowing online submissions of applications  - social media integration including twitter and Facebook Junior Programmer Digital Brewing Company February 2006 to May 2007 1 year 4 months)  Developed custom content management systems with PHP and MySQL to allow clients to update their site with an integrated content manager. Web Developer Potrero Media Corporation August 2005 to November 2005 4 months)  Developed html templates for various marketing websites that focused on serving customers with information on advancing their education.  US Army Soldier - Fort Leonard Wood, MO September 2004 to December 2004 I enlisted in the Army and went through Basic Training. After finishing Basic  Training, I decided to leave as military life didn't fit me. Education Ohlone College 2017 Skills Php, Java, Css Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/stephaniegredell?jobid=1234&lipi=urn%3Ali%3Apage%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume%3B9ordjCnGSBGHTak72uromg%3D%3D&licu=urn%3Ali%3Acontrol%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume-v02_profile Additional Information (Personal)  Top Skills  CSS  Java  PHP