Web Developer/Programmer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Programmer Web Developer/Programmer Sacramento, CA Seasoned Web Developer with 20+ years of experience leveraging JavaScript to build complex responsive websites, mobile apps, and interactive features that drive business growth and improve UX. A framework agnostic developer comfortable working as part of a team while taking the initiative to take lead on new innovations and projects with expertise in PHP, HTML5, JavaScript and CSS. A lifetime learner who is able to pick up new technologies quickly. Work Experience Web Developer/Programmer Deniro Marketing - Stockton, CA December 2006 to March 2019 DUTIES and ACCOMPLISHMENTS  ? Created responsive and adaptive Web Pages and Single Page Web Apps rendered dynamically at runtime using PHP / MySQL, JavaScript and CSS  ? Effectively translated management designs into working prototypes and production ready code  ? Created UI and UX when designs and features and specs were not specified  ? Implemented rigorous process for cross-browser testing in Safari, Mozilla and Chrome, which corrected layout issues on site pages rendered on desktop and mobile browsers.  ? Planned, developed, tested and maintained a Pay-Per-Minute Browser Based Live Streaming Video Chat platform  ? Developed and maintained a Browser Based Video On Demand system including custom RTMP and HLS streaming Video Players  ? Planned, developed, tested and maintained a cutting edge streaming technology to migrate legacy FMS and Wowza applications using NodeJS running Express / Socket.IO with FFMPEG video transcoding for plug-in free live video streaming system with recording capabilities  ? Worked with a team to develop and implement an external PHP based API for 3rd party websites to integrate our platform  ? Worked with a team to develop a custom server load balancing systems using PHP / MySQL, AJAX and NodeJS  ? Offered technical support and application debugging to clients, managers and support staff using TeamViewer, Skype, and Slack  ? Provided effective trouble shooting, complex debugging, and remediation for our applications  ? Developed custom landing pages and creatives built in PHP, JavaScript, CSS  ? Created and Edited MP4 and FLV videos for promos, ads, and banners  ? Created various Adobe Captivate movies and PDF files for "How To" tutorials for various applications Web Developer/Programmer Virtualjam - Sacramento, CA May 1999 to December 2006 DUTIES and ACCOMPLISHMENTS  ? Created, hosted and maintained client websites  ? CRM & CMS Management  ? Developed custom live streaming applications and CMS plug-ins built with PHP, JavaScript and Flash  ? Set-up, configure and maintain Linux and Windows servers  ? Developed a custom PayPal API for financial transactions  ? Created and Installed custom built applications on clients servers  ? Offered live video streaming hosting service to support custom add-ons and 3rd party applications  ? Developed a mobile application called Vmail - A video email message application    SKILLS and QUALIFICATIONS  ? Skills: PHP / MySQL, JavaScript - ES6, JS Frameworks [ ExtJS - Sencha, jQuery, React-Native ], NodeJS, HTML5, CSS3, XML, AJAX, JSON, REGEX, WebRTC, HLS (Http Live Streaming), FFMPEG / FFSERVER, Flash / ActionScript / AIR, Video / Audio Editing, Cross-Browser Compatibility, Mobile Web Design, Mobile Apps, WordPress & Custom WordPress Plug-in's.  ? Tools: Adobe Creative Cloud - Dreamweaver, Flash / Animate, Flex, AIR, Photoshop / Fireworks, Premiere, Captivate, WinSCP, SecureCRT, Eclipse, IntelliJ, Navicat, Cubase, Sound Forge, Pro Tools    ? Unit Testing: Mocha  ? Repository: SVN / GIT  ? Deployment: Jenkins  ? Servers: Linux, Windows, Wowza Media Server - JAVA, Red5 - JAVA, Adobe Media Server - ActionScript, NodeJS - Express/Socket.io, FFMPEG / FFSERVER,  ? DNS Management  ? Ability to multi-task, organize, and prioritize work  ? Ability to work in a fast paced environment  ? Building reusable code and libraries    INFO  Date / Place of Birth, Miami, FLA - Education Hollywood High School - Hollywood, CA September 1976 to June 1979 Skills Time Management, Git, REST, HTML5, Bootstrap Links https://linkedin.com/in/ken-murray-68032b38