Web Designer & Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> Designer &amp; <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Designer & Developer - Humankind Alliance Napa, CA Freelance Web Designer & Developer with nearly 3 years of work experience in building and managing websites and an academic background in architectural design. View some of my work at karolponiatowski.com. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Designer & Developer Humankind Alliance - San Rafael, CA May 2019 to Present Currently in the process of redesigning the company's brand and re-launching a new website. Sales Associate Ralph Lauren - Napa, CA April 2016 to Present Relations and advising customers through the sales process. Good understanding of the Ralph Lauren brand. Managing the inventory and back of the house operations in addition to the front of the store. Computer Technician/ Web Developer Self Employed - Napa, CA March 2008 to Present Assessment, repairing and maintaining computers. Diagnosing issues and making computer related recommendations for customers. Website maintenance and development. Web Developer Feast it Forward Network - Napa, CA September 2018 to December 2018 Company website management. Monthly newsletter setup. Assisted with livestream integration and setup. Modeler & Web Developer Noble Rot Media - Napa, CA May 2016 to December 2018 Creation of 3d models using Blender for various videos. Website maintenance and development. Conversion of websites to mobile. Programming in three.js and other JavaScript libraries. Web Designer Petaluma Historical Library & Museum - Petaluma, CA March 2018 to May 2018 Volunteer position as a web designer. Developed and redesigned the company's front-end WordPress site as part of a Scrum Team. Taught the staff how to maintain their website. Education Programming Certificate Santa Rosa Junior College - Santa Rosa, CA 2015 to Present Labyrinth School of Art - Warsaw, PL 2014 AA degree in Architectural Design Napa Valley Junior College - Napa, CA 2008 Skills Blender, Wordpress, Graphic design, Illustrator, Sales experience, C++, Javascript, Node.js, Vue.js, Php, Mysql, Sql, Ui, Html5, Phaser, jquery, Flash, Adobe illustrator, Photoshop, Adobe photoshop, CSS, Git, HTML 5 Links http://karolponiatowski.com Additional Information SKILLS  • Web Development: Html5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Node.js, Vue.js, C++, Wordpress, PHP, SQL, MySQL, SEO, UI, Agile Development, Scrum.  • Graphic Design: Blender, Flash, 3dsmax, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, Figma.  • Other Software: Autocad, Rhino, Phaser.js.  • Sales Experience.  • Bilingual in English and Polish.