Web Designer Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> Designer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Designer Developer - Self Employed Rancho Santa Margarita, CA Full-Lamp-Stack, Front-end and Back-end Developer. I have a strong PHP skill set. I write my code using the best practices & principles. 15 years designing and developing innovative applications. I have strong analytical and critical thinking skills. An Aptitude for learning new technologies and languages quickly. I have a deep understanding of Internet Development. My Military service (Air Force Veteran) has taught me discipline, endurance and the value of working with a team. Work Experience Web Designer Developer Self Employed - Rancho Santa Margarita, CA March 2003 to Present Developed and implemented complex Internet and Intranet applications on multiple platforms.  Provided maintenance and development for existing web applications.  Diagnosed and troubleshooted processing problems and applied solutions to increase company efficiency.  Implemented company policies, technical procedures and standards for preserving the integrity and security of data, reports and access.  Designed strategic plan for component development practices to support future projects.  Consistently meet deadlines and requirements for all production work orders.  Managed creative projects from concept to completion while managing outside vendors.  Proposed technical feasibility solutions for new functional designs and suggested options for performance improvement of technical objects.  Provided methodologies for object-oriented software development and efficient database design. Web Designer Developer IPSS - Los Angeles, CA July 1997 to March 2003 Los Angeles, CA  Developed and implemented complex Internet and Intranet applications on multiple platforms.Coordinated with systems partners to finalize designs and confirm requirements.  Provided continued maintenance and development of bug fixes for existing web applications.  Implemented company policies, technical procedures and standards for preserving the integrity and security of data, reports and access.  Built application platform foundation to support migration from client-server product lines to enterprise architectures and services.  Consistently meet deadlines and requirements for all production work orders. Education Computer Science Eastern New Mexico University - Portales, NM 1984 Skills DATABASE, DATABASE DESIGN, MYSQL, AJAX, ASP, Javascript, CSS, Git, Jquery, PHP, Android, HTML 5 Additional Information SKILLS  ? PHP, MySQL, jQuery, Ajax, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, AWS, Laravel, ASP, XML, ImageMagick, Json, VBScript  ? Symfony (current coursework), AWS (current coursework)  ? Repository Management Services GitHub, BitBucket.  ? Project Architecture Design.  ? Managing and helping developers reach assigned goals.  ? Excellent problem-solving abilities.  ? Maximizing Efficiency, Scalability and ease of Maintenance.  ? Implementing different API Solutions and Libraries.  ? Website Optimization.  ? Website Maintenance.  ? Database Design Optimization.  ? Recently started course work for AWS certification.  ? Practical Experience with Photoshop, Illustrator and FireWorks.