contractor for RedCastle Resources contractor for RedCastle Resources contractor for RedCastle Resources - U.S. Forest Service Ogden, UT I've spent the past twenty years as a professional Web developer. With a background in online marketing, I cut my teeth working for various for-profit media outfits before landing a position with the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute. It was there, as a member of the Harvard Medical community's applied sciences division, where my professional trajectory began to bend more towards those jobs which strive to bolster some part of our shared human experience. I take an enthusiastic approach to the individual demands of each new project, and recognize that so much of a project's scope and character can only really be defined through an appreciation of the needs of that project's given audience.    As a programmer, I have most often found myself working in the "LAMP" tradition (Linux/Apache/MySQL/PHP), but I bring a number of skillsets to the table:    ? front-end presentation conventions - HTML, CSS, Javascript, AJAX, Flash, 508 compliance  ? server-side scripting - PHP, Perl, Java, chron tasks  ? database architecture and administration - MySQL, Oracle, flat-file manipulations  ? graphic design - Photoshop, Illustrator, dynamic image rendering, web optimization  ? server installation and maintenance - custom Apache modules, email scripting, log analysis Work Experience contractor for RedCastle Resources U.S. Forest Service - Salt Lake City, UT January 2011 to Present Working for the U.S. Forest Service, I provide development and maintenance support to a variety of operational websites and web-based geospatial-related applications. I've been responsible for developing a wide range of content applications (file repositories, surveys, field data collection, forums, calendaring applications, etc.) using a wide range of technologies (CMS management, XML feed parsing, HTML5 UI trends, custom server configurations, SMS generation, etc.).    A few projects of note include:    ? GIS Data Dictionary - embeddable public content-sharing "widget" to serve as a single-source resource that could be hosted across multiple platforms/sites/domains  ? Aquatic Restoration - online field-reporting application, to synthesize (and report back to regulatory agencies) the data from all river monitoring projects throughout the Northwest  ? FSGeodata Clearinghouse - Forest Service aggregated data/maps collection/repository web developer self-employed; various social media contracts - Ogden, UT May 2010 to December 2010 During the last half of 2010, I stayed VERY BUSY developing custom PHP solutions for a variety of WordPress-backed websites, including:    ? Wicked Irish clothing line  ? Chad Christensen, U.S. senate campaign  ? Rural Messenger auctions  ? Mike Leavitt advisory website and blog  ? TheraDoc, medical software company web developer Deseret News - Salt Lake City, UT July 2007 to April 2010 Deseret News brought me on to help architect, produce, and manage their MormonTimes.com website. While there, I also helped design and maintain large and complex databases and spearheaded the construction of a state-wide, city-by-city aggregator of local news and events. I also contributed to the newspaper's primary online efforts through the development of various multimedia mechanisms:    ? Flash "top-story" rotators  ? audio/video players  ? ImageMagick/DHTML photo-cropping tools web developer Dana-Farber Cancer Institute - Boston, MA April 2003 to June 2007 I joined Dana-Farber's "Health Communication Core" as its first-ever specialist in charge of interactive media. The core was responsible for looking after the communication needs of ALL cancer research efforts being conducted throughout the Harvard Medical community. It was my job, in part, to ensure that all Web-based materials met a strict set of quality, security, and usability guidelines (W3C disability and cross-browser/cross-platform metrics, HIPAA privacy standards, Nielsen usability heuristics, etc).    Typical projects included:    ? online patient surveys  ? calendaring applications  ? tools for behavior modification and self-monitoring  ? online community forums  ? tailored email messaging    In March, 2007, I was nominated by the Dana-Farber faculty to receive the Rowlee Award for Staff Excellence. web developer various; interim freelance work - Salt Lake City, UT June 2002 to March 2003 I found myself spending the better half of 2002 as a freelance Web developer. The turnover was fast, and I found myself growing quite adept at the "economy" of good Web production: efficiency first, but quality somehow never second. It's a fine art. During this period, I spent most of my time in front-end development, with a real emphasis on crafting custom DHTML solutions -- in support of the following clients:    ? Mrs. Fields Cookies - DHTML cart tools  ? Acts of Kindness - dynamic Flash content  ? Ski Utah - database integration, member pages  ? Snowbird Ski Resort - navigation, admin tool  ? Silver King Hotel - overall site development  ? Clear One Communications - technology lab  ? Ancestry.com - various special-interest pieces web developer Symbiot Business Group - Sandy, UT October 2001 to May 2002 In a very short time, I helped concept, prototype, and develop several Web-based tools targeted towards personnel, systems, and information management. web developer Boede & Partners - Salt Lake City, UT June 2001 to September 2001 Hired as a backend design specialist, and worked closely with other programmers on the implementation of  data-driven administration tools. web developer SuMuS Interactive - Salt Lake City, UT October 1999 to April 2001 Worked hard to up-the-game of this design firm's interactive offerings, focusing most especially in the areas of client-side scripting, DHTML, Flash production, and streaming media. In the process, I developed close and intimate working relationships with the designers, copy editors, information architects, and sales personnel alike. Notable projects included:    ? Nortel Networks  ? Dallas Symphony Orchestra  ? Visto Corporation  ? Pervasive Software  ? Nifty Cool Toys web developer Global Web, Inc - Draper, UT May 1998 to September 1999 Facilitated the construction of several "mom and pop" online storefronts, eventually spearheading the creation of a master DIY administration utility. This job required several back-end proficiencies, including: Perl scripting, database integration, securing online transactions, as well as HTTP, FTP, and Email server  administration. web developer various; part-time / freelance / contract work - Salt Lake City, UT January 1996 to April 1998 “The Foundation for a Better Life” – created a Web-based administration tool for maintaining this non-profit organization’s online content.    “Urban Talent” – created an interactive Flash-based showcase for up-and-coming models and actors… complete with back-end admin tools and resume builder.    “Real Estate Federation” – created a data-driven profile editor for this online network of real-estate agents.    “Art Fridge” – created an update-able gallery for local art students, featuring automatic thumbnail generation, site indexing, and a custom shopping cart solution.    “Bittersweet Boutique” – created an online storefront for a small business specializing in vintage clothing and apparel. Education Mansfield High School - Mansfield, MA Skills HTML, Javascript, PHP, Drupal, Wordpress