Software Specialist Software Specialist Software Specialist - Mortgage Cadence Subsidiary of Accenture Lakewood, CO Extensive experience in every aspect of software development including design, implementation, documentation, testing and support.  The following statements have been used in reviews to describe my work as well as work ethic:  " has met and exceeded management's original vision."  " is a consistent performer with a good foundation of organizational skills "  " is quite thorough in his unit-testing."  " is perhaps the most committed to following the stated process amongst all the developers [at the company]."  " has been instrumental in resolving a number of issues and in making intelligent decisions for SQL development."  " has good individual work habits, and as a result is trusted to remain focused on critical path work with minimal supervision."  " innovations had a direct impact on [the company's] overall competitiveness in addition to reducing labor costs and improving efficiency within BIS."  " recognized as a key contributor to the cross-team Categories Project. Lee put action into the team's goals, thus improving the overall quality of metadata, reducing confusion, and therefore reducing metadata labor."  " a great asset to my team and work well with the folks in our group as well as other organizations which you have to interact with. I am very pleased with my decision to hire you as a full time employee." Work Experience Software Specialist Mortgage Cadence Subsidiary of Accenture April 2018 to Present Developed a corporate web-based application for supporting mortgage processing from loan origination through loan closing utilizing Visual Studio, C#, ASP.NET, MS SQL Server, MVC, Entity Framework, LINQ, JQuery, Razor, Ajax, JavaScript, JQuery, Git, HTML5, and CSS3. Also utilized SAFe Agile methodology.    ? Designed, and developed, with a team of developers and business analysts to develop corporate web-based applications. Web Developer Wells Fargo September 2014 to January 2018 Designed and developed corporate web-based application for supporting call centers utilizing Visual Studio, C#, ASP.NET, MS SQL Server, MVC, Entity Framework, LINQ, JQuery, Razor, Ajax, JavaScript, JQuery, Telerik Kendo UI Controls, HTML5, and CSS3. Other technologies used include Subversion, Tortoise SVN    ? Designed, developed, and lead a team of statewide and offshore developers and business analysts to develop multiple corporate web-based applications.  ? Released applications with very positive reviews and feedback Web Developer ProLink Solutions August 2013 to January 2014 Developed enterprise-level web applications utilizing C#, ASP.NET, MS SQL Server, XML, MVC, JavaScript, JQuery, WCF, HTML5, and CSS3.    ? Worked with other developers and business analysts to develop web applications for financial institutions for processing of low income housing tax credits.  ? Version control and Agile methodology utilized Microsoft Team Foundation Server for unit testing. Application Developer New Frontier Media November 2009 to July 2013 Developed additions and enhancements to as well as supported an extensive work flow management system utilizing VB 6.0, C#, ASP.NET, MS SQL Server, XML, Crystal Reports, MySQL and classic ASP.    ? Created a configurable scheduling system that reduced coding effort and reduced the time for creation of new schedules by 75%  ? Created various user-configurable options to provide users with faster turnaround of frequently requested functions and to better optimize developer and support efforts  ? Created several web sites utilizing ASP.NET Application developer Open Scan Technologies January 2007 to July 2009 Developed enhancements to a suite of OCR-based and A/R applications utilizing VB 6.0, C#, VBScript, XML, XSLT, MS SQL Server, SSIS as well as Subversion and Tortoise SVN for source control.    ? Created a source-code update utility in C# to automate version upgrades and file renames turning a two day process into a two hour process.  ? Wrote an SSIS package to automate importing of delimited files into Microsoft SQL Server tables.  ? Provided enhancements to a web-based application utilizing ASP.NET.  ? Used Agile methodology Education Bachelor's Degree of Science and Information Technology in Information Technology University of Phoenix - Maitland, FL 2004 Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science Montana State University - Bozeman, MT 1986 Skills INFORMIX, MICROSOFT ACCESS, MICROSOFT SQL SERVER, MICROSOFT SQL SERVER 2000, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2000, MYSQL, SQL, STORED PROCEDURES, ASP, ASP.NET, MICROSOFT VISUAL STUDIO, VISUAL STUDIO, C#, C++, DELPHI, Git, JAVASCRIPT, SILVERLIGHT, RAZOR