Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Jboss Fuse Developer Seattle, WA Since Sept 2008 Tata Consultancy Services    Title Commercial Aviation Services (CAS)    Period since NOV 2013    Client Name the Boeing Company    Position Web Developer    Responsibilities Requirement Study, System Analysis, Web Design, Development and support for applications for CAS programs.    Project Migration the integration to open source Jboss fuse technology. Supporting existing integration and enhancing the existing integration to support the customer needs.    Carried out the following activities:  • Gathering and Analyzing new business and system requirement from Client. Designing the Web sites Integration Solutions.  • Understanding the functional specifications document. Undertaking the feasibility study of the request and estimating the effort involved in fulfilling the requirements.  • Understanding the existing application. Verifying the new system's stability, interoperability, portability, security, and scalability.  • Developing detailed system that conforms to the requirements and architectural design.  • Defect Fixing of the web sites in various areas as per the testing review.  • Communication to stakeholders - Business partners and IT Management.  • Follow-up with customers on satisfaction of solution.  • Making Usage of IPMS for project monitoring and tracking.    Hardware x86, Solaris Sparx and HP Servers    Operating System Windows, UNIX, HP-UX, Linux Red hat    Languages Jboss Fuse, Java/J2EE, WebSphere ESB, WebSphere WPS, XML, HTML, JSON, web service    Special Software IBM MQ, Orbit, Rogue wave, WebSphere Integration Developer, WebSphere application Server, SOAP UI.GIT, SVN, clearcase, Jenkins Maven    Bellevue, WA    Title Ultimatix - Global ESS    Period Nov 2009 to Nov 2013    Responsibilities  • Designing/development of Travel and Forex application in Java/J2ee and JSF frame work.  • Requirement gathering for the Travel and forex module.  • Developed Webservices for Travel approval for TCS Mobility apps.  • Provide training to the team members.  • Also, Involved in an application migration from Weblogic 9.2 to 10.3.4.  • Mentoring new joinee to use SVN and VSS for code version control.  • Database design for the Travel application.  • Performance testing to check the user capacity.  • Reviewed the code of other module.    Project  • Global ESS is a global system designed to bring all employee self-service processes in TCS like leave application, planning business travel, filing claims & reimbursements, Investment, Myprofile and others under a single window, with a user-friendly interface.  • Business Processes for different modules in our application for capturing end-to-end customer Workflow process cycle, like, Initiation of request, Approval through Human intervention, Reassign, Escalation etc.  • Business integration solutions like Interfaces between different applications for data posting to other systems real-time have also been developed.    Hardware Windows XP based PC, Windows 7 based PC    Operating System Windows XP    Languages Java/J2EE, JSF Framework, HTML, CSS    Special Software Weblogic 9.2/10.3.4, Plsql developer    Project Location TCS Mumbai, India    Title World Wide Publicity    Period May 2009 to Nov 2009    Client Name Sony Pictures Entertainment Inc    Responsibilities:  • Development of software based on technical design.  • Developing unit and system test cases.  • Performing unit and system testing based on test cases.    Project:  • This project consists of development of marketing websites for Sony Pictures Entertainment for International and Domestic publicity of their titles.  • The project also provides a web based system for managing the content of these public facing marketing websites.  • The application interfaces with GPMS (Global Product Management System) which is central system maintaining the Sony Pictures' titles information.  • The title information is used for display on the WWP marketing websites after some customization by the admin.  • The title information consists of media assets and trailers, cast and crew, languages and subtitles information, etc.  • The domestic website supports internationalization by providing support for displaying content in local languages for territories.  • This project was developed using the onsite - offshore model of TCS. The project team consisted of six members.    Hardware Pentium PC hardware    Operating System Windows XP    Languages Java, J2EE, PL-SQL, JavaScript, HTML    Special Software JBoss Application Server 4.3, JBoss Seam 2.1.2, JSF, PL/SQL developer, Eclipse Ganymede 3.4    Project Location TCS Mumbai, India Work Experience Web Developer the Boeing Company November 2013 to Present Responsibilities Requirement Study, System Analysis, Web Design, Development and support for applications for CAS programs.    Project Migration the integration to open source Jboss fuse technology. Supporting existing integration and enhancing the existing integration to support the customer needs.    Carried out the following activities:  • Gathering and Analyzing new business and system requirement from Client. Designing the Web sites Integration Solutions.  • Understanding the functional specifications document. Undertaking the feasibility study of the request and estimating the effort involved in fulfilling the requirements.  • Understanding the existing application. Verifying the new system's stability, interoperability, portability, security, and scalability.  • Developing detailed system that conforms to the requirements and architectural design.  • Defect Fixing of the web sites in various areas as per the testing review.  • Communication to stakeholders - Business partners and IT Management.  • Follow-up with customers on satisfaction of solution.  • Making Usage of IPMS for project monitoring and tracking.    Hardware x86, Solaris Sparx and HP Servers    Operating System Windows, UNIX, HP-UX, Linux Red hat    Languages Jboss Fuse, Java/J2EE, WebSphere ESB, WebSphere WPS, XML, HTML, JSON, web service    Special Software IBM MQ, Orbit, Rogue wave, WebSphere Integration Developer, WebSphere application Server, SOAP UI.GIT, SVN, clearcase, Jenkins Maven    Bellevue, WA    Title Ultimatix - Global ESS Tata Consultancy Services September 2008 to Present Title Commercial Aviation Services (CAS) Travel and Forex - Mumbai, Maharashtra November 2009 to November 2013 application in Java/J2ee and JSF frame work.  • Requirement gathering for the Travel and forex module.  • Developed Web services for Travel approval for TCS Mobility apps.  • Provide training to the team members.  • Also, Involved in an application migration from Weblogic 9.2 to 10.3.4.  • Mentoring new joinee to use SVN and VSS for code version control.  • Database design for the Travel application.  • Performance testing to check the user capacity.  • Reviewed the code of other module.    Project  • Global ESS is a global system designed to bring all employee self-service processes in TCS like leave application, planning business travel, filing claims & reimbursements, Investment, Myprofile and others under a single window, with a user-friendly interface.  • Business Processes for different modules in our application for capturing end-to-end customer Workflow process cycle, like, Initiation of request, Approval through Human intervention, Reassign, Escalation etc.  • Business integration solutions like Interfaces between different applications for data posting to other systems real-time have also been developed.    Hardware Windows XP based PC, Windows 7 based PC    Operating System Windows XP  Languages Java/J2EE, JSF Framework, HTML, CSS  Special Software Weblogic 9.2/10.3.4, Plsql developer    Project Location TCS Mumbai, India    Title World Wide Publicity Sony Pictures Entertainment Inc - Mumbai, Maharashtra May 2009 to November 2009 Responsibilities:  • Development of software based on technical design.  • Developing unit and system test cases.  • Performing unit and system testing based on test cases.    Project:  • This project consists of development of marketing websites for Sony Pictures Entertainment for International and Domestic publicity of their titles.  • The project also provides a web based system for managing the content of these public facing marketing websites.  • The application interfaces with GPMS (Global Product Management System) which is central system maintaining the Sony Pictures' titles information.  • The title information is used for display on the WWP marketing websites after some customization by the admin.  • The title information consists of media assets and trailers, cast and crew, languages and subtitles information, etc.  • The domestic website supports internationalization by providing support for displaying content in local languages for territories.  • This project was developed using the onsite - offshore model of TCS. The project team consisted of six members.    Hardware Pentium PC hardware    Operating System Windows XP  Languages Java, J2EE, PL-SQL, JavaScript, HTML  Special Software JBoss Application Server 4.3, JBoss Seam 2.1.2, JSF, PL/SQL developer, Eclipse Ganymede 3.4    Project Location TCS Mumbai, India Education Bachelor's in instrumentation technology Bapuji college of engineering and technology - Davangere, Karnataka June 2004 to June 2008 Skills Javascript, HTML Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Java Programmer March 2011 to Present Safe Agile certified February 2017 to February 2020