Self-Employed Web Developer Self-Employed <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Blockchain developer Somerset, NJ Blockchain Developer with a demonstrated history of working in the information technology and services industry. Skilled in Ethereum smart contract development using Solidity, Truffle, Ganache, Web3Js, etc. Strong engineering professional with a Nanodegree focused on Blockchain Development from Udacity. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Self-Employed Web Developer Somerset, NJ 2007 to Present Managed, developed and maintained various custom WordPress websites and online stores.  ? Collaborated with a web designer on some of the projects.  ? All projects were completed within the time frame set by the clients. Acumen Consulting Corporation I - St. Louis, MO 2003 to 2005 Communicated with more than 8 clients to assess their needs.  ? Managed projects through their complete development lifecycle.  ? Estimated effort, designed, coded, and implemented web and client-server applications.  ? Automated processes that saved valuable time and effort. Larsen & Toubro Infotech - Mumbai, Maharashtra 1997 to 2001 India and St. Louis, MO  ? Worked as part of remote and onsite teams with 4+ international clients on web-based, Windows-based and mainframe applications.  ? Recognized by the vice president of AT&T for the work done in gaining FCC compliance for the company and saving the company monetary fines by providing timely reports. Education Nanodegree in Blockchain Development Udacity - Somerset, NJ January 2019 to April 2019 Bachelors in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering University of Poona August 1993 to June 1997 Skills Wordpress, Git, Html, Javascript, Php, Css, Mysql, Sql, Frameworks, Solidity (Less than 1 year), Golang (Less than 1 year), Truffle framework (Less than 1 year) Links https://github.com/ajmachado Assessments Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/cu0bqdbejy4skho9 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages: Solidity, NodeJS, JavaScript, HTML, PHP, SQL, CSS, Go(Golang)  Frameworks: Truffle & Ganache, WordPress, Magento  Other: Git & Github, MySQL, Agile, Trello