WEB DESIGNER/ DEVELOPER <span class="hl">WEB</span> DESIGNER/<span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> WEB DESIGNER/ DEVELOPER - Self-Employeed Decatur, GA Throughout his career as a graphic designer and web developer, Jorge Alvarez has worked for a variety of unique businesses, shifting between roles as a web developer, graphic designer, and animation artist. With a Bachelor of Science Degree in Studio Art from Florida State University, he balances a strong background in traditional creative methods with an ongoing curiosity for new and innovative technologies.    Jorge is a self-motivated Web Developer and Graphic Designer with a high level of experience working on multiple projects. He is passionate and hardworking with a penchant for meeting deadlines. He is a solutions-driven professional excelling in highly collaborative work environments, finding creative solutions to technical challenges. Jorge has proven experience developing consumer-focused web sites using HTML, CSS, Javascript, Bootstrap, and Wordpress. He is also experienced in designing and building products for desktop and mobile browsers, meeting higher standards for web design, user experience, best practices, usability and speed. Jorge is also a skilled Graphic Artist specializing in digital media for the web. Highly artistic, technology-driven and fluent in Adobe's Creative Suite, Jorge is able to create skilled, clear and brand-specific designs. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience WEB DESIGNER/ DEVELOPER Self-Employeed - Miami, FL January 2009 to Present • Tested websites and performed troubleshooting prior to deployment.  • Researched new technologies and software packages for use in website projects.  • Collected, defined and translated user requirements into project designs and implementation plans.  • Strengthened company brand and identity by creating distinctive websites and graphics.  • Created site layout and user interface using HTML and CSS best practices.  • Developed CMS websites using Wordpress, Bootstrap, and jQuery scripting.  • Completed full redesigns of existing websites to improve navigation, enhance visuals and strengthen search engine rankings.  • Used programming capabilities in PHP, SQL and JavaScript and other libraries as needed.  • Designed, implemented and monitored web pages and sites for continuous improvements in a fast-paced environment.  • Maintained strict budgetary and scheduling guidelines to satisfy customers with high-quality, targeted designs. CONTRACT FLASH DEVELOPER Simplikate Systems LLC - Dania Beach, FL June 2008 to November 2008 • Responsible for developing a Flash user-interface for hotel management software, Techcierge.  • Collaborated with engineering on various web services and set-top box application interfaces. WEB DESIGNER/ DEVELOPER Willis & Co - Key West, FL March 2007 to April 2008 • Used programming capabilities in PHP, Actionscript, and JavaScript and other libraries as needed.  • Collected, defined and translated user requirements into project designs and implementation plans.  • Took concepts and produced design mockups and prototypes to strengthen designs, enhance user experiences and improve site interactions.  • Tested websites and performed troubleshooting prior to deployment.  • Created eye catching and functional digital design concepts across various platforms to strengthen company brand and identity.  • Completed full redesigns of existing websites to improve navigation, enhance visuals and strengthen search engine rankings. Education Studio Arts and Digital Media Florida State University - Tallahassee, FL 1998 to 2001 Associate of Arts in Studio Arts Miami Dade College - Miami, FL 1994 to 1997 High School Diploma Miami Sunset Senior High School - Miami, FL 1991 to 1994 Skills Html, Javascript, Php, Python, Css, Web design, Ux, Wordpress, Animation, Graphic design, Interaction design, Visual design, Architecture, Print advertising, Advertising, Optimization, Metrics, Mac, Direct email campaigns, Adobe CC Suite, Bootstrap, HTML5, MYSQL, Word Press, CSS3, Website, CSS3, HTML5, Word Press, Website, MYSQL Links https://www.salientype.com/ Certifications/Licenses CS50x Miami Certification January 2019 to Present