Web Applications Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> Applications <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full-Stack Applications Developer with extensive Web Development experience. Birdsboro, PA I am currently seeking a full-time opportunity that is local to my location or 100% remote/telecommute availability. I currently have 20+ years of on-the-job training and experience with 12 years as a remote employee. I specialize in Customized Software Solutions for any type of business, as well as, businesses of any size. Please contact me to further discuss your business needs and my qualifications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Applications Developer Full Telecommute - Bala-Cynwyd, PA November 2015 to May 2019 Responsible for managing and completing projects of many types. Projects  include new web application development, break-fix testing, existing application  enhancement, de-bugging, as well as, upgrading existing Classic ASP  applications to the most current .NET Framework available. In addition, new MVC  application development initiative in place for any new software solutions to be  developed and utilized internally, as well as for our Clients.  • Create customized and complex reporting dashboards for both internal users  and coporate clients. Utilized SSRS along with .NET Framework. Reporting  application enabled automated scheduled report delivery or adhoc report  creation of real-time data as required based upon specifc needs of the user  and/or client.  • Provide basic to advanced level technical support to employees and clients, when required.  • Perform extensive SQL Server database optimization, performance testing and tuning on a constant basis.  • Manage and oversee website performance monitoring and maintenance. Senior Web Developer November 2013 to November 2015 Full-time Contracting    • Hired as a Contract Developer to Manage full SDLC of web applications hired to develop. Complete within timelines both internal and customer-facing web  applications for various clients of various business types and sizes. Utilized  Microsoft Visual Studio and developed applications in ASP.NET and VB.NET with SQL Server Databases.  • Utilize current SEO techniques to increase customer web-traffic for public web  applications, when required. Senior Developer EDR, LLC - Toddville, IA November 2012 to November 2013 Enhanced and maintained intranet-based software application in ASP.NET  utilizing a SQL Server databases.  • Developed complex customer-facing reporting system consisting of both standard and customized reports for each client.  • Created complex stored procedures and queries to generate client reports, graphs and charts.  • Performed troubleshooting, testing, system debugging and fixes, when required  to current software system.  • Gathered customer requirements, technical specifications and trained  employees how to manage each individual clients' accounts utilizing the proprietary software application. Senior Web Developer / Report Analyst Clear Channel Airports - Allentown, PA December 2011 to November 2012 Allentown, PA  Shearer Technical, Reading PA    • Consulted as a Senior Web Developer / Report Analyst (Contractor Positions)  • Retained by 3 additional small-sized local business clients to develop UI software  applications and database to manage their inventory, projects and scheduling.  SQL Server and Visual Studio were utilized to develop the .NET applications using  C#.  • Develop customer facing .NET web applications using ASP. Net 4.0, SharePoint  and SQL Reporting Services  • Implement new technologies including HTML5 and CSS3 to develop cutting edge  applications  • Utilize Adobe Photoshop to create mock-up files and slice design files for use in web applications Senior Web Developer / Report Analyst PSKW LLC - Bedminster, NJ February 2010 to December 2011 Developed & maintained all Intranet web applications for customer service  agents, project managers & sales  • Created SQL stored procedures to provide database connectivity to new  applications  • Improved existing applications by updating website code and implementing  optimized SQL stored procedures  • Oversaw reporting processes to ensure external clients and internal staff had  timely access to needed reports  • Incorporated new logo, user interface elements and style sheets to improve the company's public website  • Development environment included Microsoft Visual Studio 2010, SQL Server 2008  and Adobe Creative Suite Senior Web Developer / Webmaster Kadent Corporation - Wyomissing, PA January 2007 to December 2009 Managed all aspects of Internet SDLC project management for company and its  subsidiaries  • Increased company exposure by designing, developing & launching three new  websites for subsidiaries  • Achieved cost savings by normalizing & converting AS400 data to SQL  Server/Lotus Approach environment  • Saved $60K annually by developing a secure real-time Internet based credit card  and e-check payment system  • Imported over 8M critical billing and payment records from AS400 to SQL Server  with zero data corruption/loss  • Increased qualified traffic over 300% by conceiving and implementing aggressive  SEO strategies  • Environment included Visual Studio 2008, SQL Server 7/2000/2005, Lotus Approach  & Creative Suite Senior Developer / Webmaster Sovereign Bank - Wyomissing, PA May 2001 to January 2007 • Supervised junior developers and interns in managing all aspects of SDLC for Intranet applications  • Collaborated with business units to develop specifications, gather requirements & deploy Intranet applications  • Improved employee productivity by developing and implementing internal online  ticketing Intranet  • Development environment included Visual Web Developer, SQL Server 2000 and Adobe Creative Suite Web Developer / Webmaster XEROX CONNECT - Exton, PA June 2000 to May 2001 • Monitored web server performance & statistics to provide management with actionable analytical reports  • Improved the performance of ticketing systems and customer satisfaction by migrating from PHP to ASP code  • Development environment included Visual Web Developer and SQL Server  7/2000 Education Computer Science & Software Engineering Delaware County Community College - Media, PA Business Coursework Katharine Gibbs Business School - Philadelphia, PA Skills DATA ANALYSIS, MICROSOFT SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, SQL, AJAX, ASP, DHTML, DREAMWEAVER, ECOMMERCE, ASP.NET, SHAREPOINT, WEB-BASED, .NET, MICROSOFT VISUAL STUDIO, VISUAL STUDIO, APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT, C#, DESIGN PATTERNS, HTML, JAVASCRIPT Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/SuzanneMaryMiller Additional Information Functional Skills  My career is currently in the 19th year of both on-the-job experience and training.  Extensive experience as both a Senior-Level and Team-Member Web Developer and  Team Leader with a keen understanding of real-world business needs and goals and how  they apply to web-based applications and custom software solutions. Consistently  exceed stated goals and deadlines. Highly capable of working on multiple projects  ranging in size from small task automation to enterprise-level solutions. Demonstrated to  be highly organized with exceptional multitasking skills. More than 12 years as a  remote/telecommuting W-2 employee and/or a 1099 Consultant with demonstrated  ability to be highly-productive and accessible. Maintain a professional, productive and  modern home-office environment.    Key Skills, Abilities, Languages and Software  • Full SDLC Management Experience • JavaScript / AJAX / DHTML  • Specializing in CMS Development • JQuery  both customized & turn-key solution • MVC Design Patterns  development. • Angular JS Framework Development  • Advanced ETL Experience & Training • Bootstrap  • Agile Software Development • Team Foundation Server (TFS)  • Quality Assurance and Testing • Subversion/TortoiseSVN Administration  • Complex Reporting utilizing SSRS • JIRA & Github application experience  • Advanced Data Analysis Skills • Adobe Photoshop & Dreamweaver  • Requirements Gathering from both • Microsoft Visual Studio Expert-Level Experience  technical and non-technical users • Microsoft Office Applications  • Process Improvements • Microsoft SQL Server - Advanced skills  • Storyboard Design & Development • SharePoint Administration & Customization  • OOP/Object Oriented Programming • ASP.NET (C# & VB) - Advanced Level Exp.  • MVC new application development, • Classic ASP (VBScript)  as well as, existing .NET application • VB.NET Windows Applications  conversion to MVC • TCP/IP Utilization  • ECommerce solution enhancement, • Node and React Development -  compliance & development • Advance SQL Server Administration and  • HTML / HTML5 / XHTML (advanced skill Development experience  level) • T-SQL (Transact SQL) Development  • Cascading Style Sheets (CSS3) • Specialize in Custom CMS Web applications  • Visual Basic /VB Script