Web Designer <span class="hl">Web</span> Designer Web Admin, Designer | Developer Fort Collins, CO Highly experienced professional with over 15 plus years of web design and development. Work Experience Web Designer Cherokee Nation Assurance - Centers for Disease Control - Fort Collins, CO 2018 to Present POC for CDC Center Web development for the Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Laboratory Services (CSELS) [https://www.cdc.gov/csels]for Meaningful Use, Surveillance Data Platform, Division of Laboratory Systems (DLS), Division of Health Informatics and Surveillance (DHIS), Division of Public Health Information Dissemination (DPHID) and the Division of Scientific Education and Professional Development (DSEPD); UI/UX, internet, intranet, Metrics (Adobe Analytics Omniture/SiteCatalyst), GovDelivery, Share Drives, Word Press WCMS, and participated on the CDC web council.  Recent Key Achievements:  * Nominated for 2017 CSELS Honor Award for Excellence in Paraternering - Domestic for Rural Health Initiative (https://www.cdc.gov/ruralhealth).  * Launched updated Surveillance Data Platform website (https://www.cdc.gov/sdp/)  * Provided key solution for Laboratory Services migration from dynamic to static web site during a WCMS upgrade reducing man hours through upper POC collaboration with an out of the box deliverable. Web Developer Cherokee Nation Assurance - Centers for Disease Control - Fort Collins, CO 2014 to Present Manage overall CDC DPHID website, including library, intranet and web communications. Oversee all Center Web development for the Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology and Laboratory Services, including MMWR, IIU, the CDC Library; internet, intranet, Adobe Analytics Omniture/SiteCatalyst, GovDelivery, Share Drives, Word Press WCMS, and participate on the CDC web council.  Recent Key Achievements:  * Migrated CDC web library into new WCMS design (http://www.cdc.gov/library).  * Launched updated DPHID internet and intranet sites  * Created web communication channels for DPHID. Web Developer Northrop Grumman - Centers for Disease Control (CDC) - Fort Collins, CO 2002 to 2014 Served as Web Developer for National Centre for Zoonotic and Vector Borne Enteric Diseases validating HTML and assisting with section-508. Designed and developed new department's intranet services, merging all company and remote employees. Created and oversaw migration of all SharePoint team sites, including documented libraries and lists.  Key Achievements:  * Designed and published 2013 CDC West Nile virus website, and presented statistics at 6th Annual WNV Conference in San Jose, California.  * Increased speed and efficiency of critical information by developing ASP automation.  * Developed cross-platform innovative approach to rapidly detect epidemic diseases using Android application, Google sites and integrating these with Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 and S3, reducing detection time from months to days. Webmaster Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield - Denver, CO 1999 to 2002 Managed companywide intranet application ITMETRICS v1.2. Oversaw and developed all facets of website function, including front- and back-end development, troubleshooting and administration, integrating and incorporating data. Identified business opportunities by liaising with end-users and managers. Directed programming and art in developing internet architecture. Education Master of Applied Science in Information and Communications Technology University of Denver - Denver, CO 2015 Bachelor of Arts University of Colorado - Denver, CO 2010 Skills ANDROID (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), MICROSOFT SHAREPOINT (10+ years), SHAREPOINT (10+ years), Website, Photoshop, Web Design, Wordpress, Wireframe Links http://www.mazarinCreations.com Additional Information Portfolio of - 6 Projects we could discuss:  1. Rapid ELISA Mobile Analysis (REMA)  2. DVBD home spun Content Management System (CMS)  3. WNV Map Access Database to populate website  4. Sharepoint Teamsites Admin  5. Fight The Bite Poster Contest website and tutor  6. ZenBeans Blog - lesson - do not build an un-optimized WordPress Site on a windows server.     Areas of Expertise  • Experience leading and providing technical guidance, and overseeing project migrations into new systems as was the case with the Community Guide Interactive Map.  • Experience envisioning product development and advising on most appropriate strategic direction on development projects.  • Skilled in overseeing and creating Web Content Management System from scratch for government bodies and entities, and creating in-house applications for stakeholders.  • Successful in restructuring government agency communications team site with limited administrative privileges, documenting libraries and creating study reports.  • Extensive knowledge and experience with web design, development, architecture and back-end programming.    Technical Skills  Platforms: Windows 9X/NT/2000/XP, Linux, Android OS, Mac OS  Tools:  Java, JavaScript, Perl, ASP, VB Script, CGI, HTML, CS, AS3, FLEX, XML, MS Office, OpenOffice, Adobe Premium CS3, Citrix Meta Frame, FireFox-Mozilla, Beyond Compare2 (FTP), Omniture, SharePoint 2010, Action Script 3, FlashBuilder, PhoneGap, JQuery