Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - U.S. Pharmacopeia Germantown, MD Work Experience Web Developer U.S. Pharmacopeia - Rockville, MD May 2019 to Present Examining and evaluating USP main website and microsites for accuracy and consistency withinUSP guidelines. Creating new pages, blocks and displays of new and existing content for sitebuilding and reorganization. Providing HTML and image edits and updates within Drupal 8 andother web CMS environments. Processing job tickets on Jira and Wrike platforms. Coordinating with USP personnel in providing site edits and services as needed. Compliance Specialist Westat - Rockville, MD March 2018 to November 2018 9-mth contract)  Providing evaluation, recommendations, guidance and production in applying WCAG2.0 guidelines for Section-508 conformance to print, digital, web, social media and audio/visual products; formatting and writing audio descriptions for transcripts; recording audio descriptions. Assisting the Accessibility Information Bureau's 508 Coordinator with evaluation and production of internal and external projects to apply 508 conformance at all levels. Assisting the Graphics Department with design and production of documents, images, web and emails as needed.  • Provided guidance to production channels on meeting 508 conformance guidelines within internal workflow.  • Evaluated and provided descriptive text for visuals in short videos and recorded presentations to meet 508 conformance guidelines.  • Provided voice recording of audio descriptions for video productions. Web Developer Navy Federal Credit Union - Vienna, VA June 2017 to December 2017 6-mth contract)  Developed responsive HTML templates for email, text and SMS production through the eGain email distribution program. Document tracking and review as part of a marketing and production team. Prepared IT tickets in ITSM and coordinated with IT departments to promote emails into production system. Provided guidance and recommendations for 508 conformance and responsive formatting and style.  • Improved email appearance on multiple and mobile platforms by creating responsive HTML templates for emails and text messages, plus Push notifications, going to NFCU customers.  • Brought legacy email content up-to-date by providing HTML and CSS solutions to legacy email design.  • Guaranteed proper email presentation by providing email test content and executing content testing. Web Designer, Communications Department Education (CASE) - Washington, DC January 2008 to October 2016 Produced, managed and supported primary and district Internet sites, office Intranet and social media platforms as part of Communications team. Managed and supported the Ingeniux Content Management System (CMS) Internet, Higher Logic Communities Intranet and Informz email platforms. Managed and produced content for SM platforms. Acted as company liaison with web vendors, internal and external clients.  • Improved site appearance and functionality for staff and members by collaborating in vendor site redesign and content migration of the main site to a new CMS environment.  • Reduced production time and cost of team projects by producing designs and graphics in lieu of site vendors and the Marketing department, expanding working knowledge of membership and product databases, generating newsletter mailing lists and working to decrease and ease production bottlenecks.  • Improved periodic email newsletter recipient accessibility and delivery effectiveness by redesigning templates for responsive design.  WEB-BASED WORK SAMPLES  Blog: http://stevenlylejordan.blog  Council for Advancement and Support of Education (CASE): www.case.org  CASE Blog: http://blog.case.org  CASE Communities: http://community.case.org/home  US Professors of the Year Awards: www.usprofessorsoftheyear.org  Environmental Sensor Station Citing Guidelines: http://www.ops.fhwa.dot.gov/publications/ess05/index.htm Education Architecture Georgia Institute of Technology and Tuskegee Institute Skills Wordpress, HTML5, Javascript Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/steven-lyle-jordan-dc