MTS 1, Software Engineer MTS 1, Software Engineer MTS 1, Software Engineer San Francisco, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience MTS 1, Software Engineer PayPal - San Francisco, CA January 2016 to May 2019 software and web apps by Node.js, Express, JavaScript ES6, Docker, REST APIs, Mocha, testdouble, Sinon,  GraphQL, Agile development applying my solid experience and strong skills, and where I  Soon after PayPal acquired Xoom, I transitioned to the Node Platform team, where I was  full-time dedicated to backend programming. can keep learning and becoming a better  Remittance Orchestration Layer (ROL) programmer.    The Remittance Orchestration Layer acts as an interface between Xoom's Node.js front- end apps and a number of different backend microservices written in Java. As part of the  Node Platform team I wrote some Node.js clients and client descriptors used by ROL to Qualifications  communicate with those microservices. I also maintained and developed new features for ROL.  Node.js  Multi Country JS ES6    Xoom, as part of PayPal, has a mission to enable remittances from anywhere in the world REST APIs to any country. I worked on the changes required by ROL to enable Canada to be the first  MySQL  country, other than the USA, where Xoom users can send money from.  MongoDB  GraphQL  Git  My last project at PayPal was a spike story to look into transitioning part of the ROL API Docker into GraphQL. This was especially important for the IOS and Android apps since it greatly  reduces the payload sent from the server to the apps. GraphQL  Splunk  Agile development Senior Web Developer PayPal - San Francisco, CA November 2012 to December 2015 Node.js, Express, JavaScript ES6, Docker, HTML, CSS, JSPX, FreeMarker testdouble  Sinon  Step-Up-App  HTML  I architected and developed the first Node app developed in Xoom San Francisco, called  step-up-app. This app was crucial for the Xoom High Sending Limits project that allowed CSS  users to increase their remittance limit from $3,000 to $10,000. The step-up-app enabled  users to self-promote from the basic tier 1 limit to tier 2.    Xoom Authorization Manager  I developed a Node.js module to interface between the Node apps and Redis to enable  express-session to use Redis as the memory store and avoid sticky sessions. It queries  redis using the JSESSIONID cookie set up when a user logs into the Xoom website. When the session is valid, it returns an auth object. Otherwise it automatically queries the auth  server for a new access_token by sending a refresh_token. LANGUAGES    ROL: model-country-js  English  I collaborated to building the Node.js Remittance Orchestration Layer (ROL) by Portuguese  developing model-country-js, one of the custom modules used by ROL.  Spanish  Xoom Payment page  I mapped all the possible permutations of one of the most complex pages of the Xoom  website, due to all the new and existing payment types and their selected states, and migrated the code from FreeMarker to JSPX.    Other  I developed and maintained a number of different parts of the Xoom website, like Track  Transaction and Country integrations pages. San Mateo - Senior Web Developer Quinstreet November 2010 to July 2012 PHP, MySQL, JSP, Javascript, JQuery, MySQL, JSP  Quinstreet is a vertical marketing and online media that delivers leads of potential  customers to various business fields, including Education, B2B, Financial and Home  Services, etc. I maintained, enhanced and developed a number of their proprietary  websites, theme sites and micro sites built in JSP:    ? Mundo Vestibular ( https://www.mundovestibular.com.br/ )  ? FaculdadesBrasil: ( https://www.faculdadesbrasil.com.br/ ) Social Media Developer Real Time Matrix, Berkeley October 2008 to April 2010 LZX, Javascript, PHP, bash scripting, Flex, Adobe AIR, AS3  Real Time Matrix was a start-up company that developed social network applications that  ran cross-platform on Facebook, MySpace and Hi5, I helped to develop and maintain  those apps using languages as diverse as PHP, LZX and Flex.    ? Vortex was a web app that grouped a media player for hosted videos, YouTube  videos, Flickr slide shows and audio podcasts together with an RSS feed reader.  ? MiniV Fanball - Snapdraft was an online sports pool betting site. RTM worked  on a partnership with them and I built a widget that played their Fanball series of videos and had an aggregator of RSS feeds about NFL teams.  ? ZVents - RTM worked on a partnership with Zvents, a cultural events search  engine, and I added their engine to the Vortex and created a Zvents module for RTM's Facebook apps. Senior Web Developer CKR Interactive - Cupertino, CA September 2006 to September 2008 PHP, MySQL, Javascript, HTML, CSS  CKR Interactive is a Marketing & Advertising agency that helps recruiters target  specialized types of employees. I developed web apps that generated reports on metrics about job postings and job applications, and apps promoted employee's referral  programs.    ? ClientHub - A website site that enabled CKR Interactive's clients to make online  requests for new ads, projects, researches, events, etc. It also allowed the clients to view newsletters, media special offers and their past ads, campaigns,  events, developed by CKR Interactive, sorted by date, title, media, type, etc.  ? Recruitment Media Metrics - An app that allowed CKR Interactive to track  metrics on job boards postings, web banners and print ads. It generated online  reports on page impressions, click through and the number of job applications  generated by each medium involved in the campaign. It included a Content  Management System (CMS), a reports site and landing pages linked to from banners, job boards and URLs provided in print ads. It also took the applicant to  CKR's client's Applicant Tracking System (ATS). AJAX, DHTML and MySQL.  ? Referral Max - An online Employee Referral Program (ERP) that allowed  employees to refer candidates for the client's available job positions and also allowed the client's recruiters to track the referrals and grant awards to  employees who referred successful hires. PHP, AJAX, DHTML, XML and MySQL. Web Developer Laszlo Systems, San Mateo December 2004 to March 2006 PHP, LZX, HTML, CSS  Laszlo Systems was an open-source platform providing user experience solutions for apps  optimized for mobile and web-enabled devices. They originally created a proprietary  language called LZX and, later on, made it open source via the OpenLaszlo community.I  maintained and updated Laszlo Systems' and OpenLaszlo's websites and developed the following projects:    ? Laszlo Mail reports - Stats pages in PHP and LZX for Laszlo Mail and Laszlo Mail  evaluation package.  ? Forum Accelerator - Adapted vBulletin's existing code to allow Laszlo's forums  threads to have a reply accelerated feature paid via PayPal.  ? Laszlo Mail Eval - Wrote code that recorded user's info in a database, dynamically retrieved a one time only free evaluation license key and sent it to  the customer by email. It performed a check in Laszlo Systems' website every  time the user returned to allow it to download a new Laszlo Mail evaluation  package, but not a new free evaluation license key.  ? BuyMail - Wrote code to allow the purchase of a Laszlo Mail license. The code  recorded user's info in a database, dynamically retrieved a license key for a certain number of accounts and sent it to the customer by email. It performed a  check in Laszlo Systems' website every time the user returned to allow the download of a new Laszlo Mail package without the license key.  ? RSS feeds - Created dynamic RSS feed pages for all Laszlo Forums sections.  Added an rss reader to OpenLaszlo's new home page to display RSS from technoratti.com. Education Certificate in Internet San Francisco State University - San Francisco, CA September 2000 to September 2002 Skills CSS, MYSQL, Javascript, Git, Node.js (4 years), Docker (3 years), Jquery Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/m https://github.com/frony