Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Datagroup Technologies Somoye is a highly creative, forward-thinking professional with a multi-faceted background in User Experience,  Front-end development and responsive design/programming for both static and dynamically loaded content with years  of experience in web development. Work Experience Full Stack Developer Datagroup Technologies 2018 to Present Technologies: Laravel, VueJs, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, SQL, Bootstrap, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery  ? Working with the development team to build out new features and products.  ? Participating in team meetings (SCRUM meeting), providing input and suggestions.  ? Troubleshooting the cause of bugs and implementing solutions where needed  ? Developed project concepts and support optimal workflow.  ? Developing RESTful APIs.  ? Using Vue.js for front-end development and Laravel for backend development.  ? Participate in the entire application lifecycle, focusing on coding and debugging.  ? Creating clean interfaces and clean, intuitive interactions and experiences. Frontend Web Developer Macini Technologies Limited 2016 to 2017 Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap and WordPress  ? Collaborated with senior developers to work on large, complex design projects for corporate clients.  ? Developed project concepts and maintain optimal workflow.  ? Assure that all user input is validated before submitting to back-end.  ? Get feedback from, and build solutions for, users and customers.  ? Write functional requirement documents and guides.  ? Created clean interfaces and clean, intuitive interactions and experiences.  ? Conducted quality assurance tests to discover error and optimize usability.  ? Maintaining and improving client's website.  ? Help backend developers with coding and troubleshooting. Backend Web Developer Ptas Solutions International Limited 2015 to 2017 Technologies: PHP, HTML5, CSS3, SQL, Bootstrap, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery and JAVA SE  ? Developed project concepts and support optimal workflow.  ? Integration of user-facing elements developed by a front-end developer with server side logic.  ? Handing Data migration, transformation, and scripting.  ? Troubleshoot and debug applications.  ? Participate in the entire application lifecycle, focusing on coding and debugging.  ? Created clean interfaces and clean, intuitive interactions and experiences.  ? Conducted quality assurance tests to discover error and optimize usability.  ? Attend client meetings to learn about the development of project scopes.  ? Contacted clients to obtain more information and discuss design options. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Himalayan University 2016 Diploma in Software Engineering Aptech Computer Education - New Delhi, Delhi 2016 Skills Javascript, Bootstrap, Oop, Php, Laravel, Ruby, Rails, Ruby on rails, Html5, Java, jquery, Sql, Ajax Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/somoyetosin