Sr. Web Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Web Developer - Sequence Diagrams and State Austin, TX • Maintain a position 09+ years within the field of web development where my knowledge and experience can be effectively utilized for increased profitability. I've been primarily a contractor but looking for a permanent position in which I can grow with for years to come.  • Experience in running and evaluating online marketing campaigns (email marketing and Pay Per Click (PPC) campaigns)  • Strong understanding of Name servers, DNS and MX records  • Strong multitasking and client relations experience  • Strong experience in managing multiple projects simultaneously  • Supportive team player with excellent communication characteristics (both on-site and remote)  • Proficiency in Java, J2EE and the latest frameworks like JSF, Oracle ADF components.  • Extensive experience in developing various web based applications using Hibernate and Spring frameworks.  • Experience with WEB 2.0 technologies like DWR, Ajax and CSS.  • Strong interpersonal and communication skills with an ability to lead a team and keep them motivated.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA) Programming.  • Vast experience with Core Java and J2EE using most of the advanced features of Java  • Expertise in integrated environment for java such as Eclipse, MyEclipse, RAD, NetBeans, ClearCase and VSS.  • Updated company's products list daily and would send emails out to inform clients  • Handled all computer and network tasks as well as technical support  • Helped company expand nationwide and built a stronger business  • Built a strong relationship and achieved all monthly goals  • Experience in developing and implementing Web Services using REST, SOAP, WSDL  • Good at Documenting and User requirements and System Specifications.  • Hands on UML compliant high level design with data flow diagram, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Activity Diagram and Use Cases and documenting for peer developer. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Web Developer Sequence Diagrams and State - Tallahassee, FL January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed and coded call to action buttons and landing pages from PSD, PDF, PNG, or JPG  • Utilized CSS sprites where necessary  • Worked within content management systems such as WordPress, Drupal, and Joomla  • I used responsive CSS3 media queries to resize elements on the page for mobile compatibility  • Utilized JavaScript for functions, objects, string methods, and just about everything else  • Integrated Hibernate ORM with Spring-Hibernate framework to facilitate DML and DQL queries and represent object-database mapping.  • Involved in transforming the Use Cases into Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and State diagrams.  • Developed the application using Storyboards, Autolayouts, Constraints and Size classes for to support different iOS devices.  • Created the appropriate user interface for different iOS devices using Auto layouts and Constraints.  • Architect new features in website using Java/J2EE under Santana Framework and enhance existing features. Refactoring code, redesign current design.  • Design and implement disaster recovery for the PostgreSQL Database.  • Developed an iOS user form with different selectable skins in a dynamic drawing threaded environment.  • Architect Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object (DTO) in the project which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing.  • Backed up and restored databases, handling .bak, .mdf and .ldf files  • Handled technical computer problems and troubleshot company's products and software  • Assisted my co-workers with any technical problems they needed help with  • Troubleshot in Internet related Issues as well as PC problems  • Brought call volume to a minimum  • Worked as a team leader  • Set security roles for databases via SQL Management Studio  • Built and managed company's website utilizing software such as Dreamweaver, Photoshop, and Flash CS3  • Worked with SharePoint Developer, SharePoint Server 2008, and SharePoint Web Services for the internal employee portal  • Utilized VMware for software testing  • Helped set up and utilize remote conference applications such as GoToMeeting and GoToAssist  • Operating systems utilized were Windows Server 2003, 2005, and 2008 Both Standard and Enterprise Edition  • Involved in development of Web Services, creation of WSDL and schemas.  • Extensively participated on working with Spring framework. Involved in writing JSP and Servlets.  • Involved in development of Web Services, were developed to receive client requests.  • Implemented Spring JDBC template, Spring Exception Strategy and AOP.  • Project manager and consultant to multiple projects  • Converted static HTML pages to dynamic AngularJS web applications utilizing but not limited to controllers, directives, data binding, filters, modules, and services  • ExtJS and jQuery were primary libraries used in conjunction with JSON or XML and AJAX. HTML, DHTML, and XHTML were used to display content formatted using CSS. Hand coded JavaScript was frequently used in hand coded or library environments to perform a variety of functions Sr. Web Developer Bloomberg L.P - Princeton, NJ May 2015 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Assigned as lead front-end web and mobile developer for 6 month contract  • Utilized Resco Mobile CRM to develop company's mobile application UI/UX  • jQuery Mobile was used for accordions, listviews, and many other data-roles  • Updated previous code to HTML5 and used AngularJS events, expressions, and animations to produce interactive elements for mobile application and website  • Used responsive CSS3 media queries for resizing check images and other elements  • Weekly meetings to get updates on progress and assign/resolve any bugs found  • Responsible for Docker Compose environment deployment for Ruby on Rails, Elixir and Node.JS apps running on a stack with Postgresql, ElasticSearch, OrientDB and Nginx.  • Developed organized SQL and MySQL databases optimized for Laravel use.  • Architect a prototype Java Servlet that calls OpenEdge processes using JSONRPC  • Usage of version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache), JIRA/ QualityCenter for ticketing, Wiki for documentation, Jenkins for nightly build.  • Created and modified code within a Ruby based application.  • Used WSAD WebSphere Studio Application Devloper for writing code for JSP, Servlets, and Struts.  • Architect user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application.  • OOP in PHP to extend or update functionalities.  • Developed mobile printer receipts using ZPL coding for Zebra RW420 and ZQ520 printers  • Developed remote deposit capture platform utilizing OCR to deposit checks directly from any mobile device with the ability to preview the check image in full perspective and edit the MICR number if needed  • Utilized and coded in Microsoft CRM to replicate mobile data on Desktop  • Utilized heavy JavaScript to perform UI changes dynamically based on accounts loaded  • Managed a team of 3 developers and QA Analysts and reported directly to the VP and CTO  • Created an inventory management system within Resco Mobile CRM Sr. Web Developer Leidos - King George, VA November 2013 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  • Lead front-end web developer to all web projects and apps  • Languages utilized were HTML, XHTML, CSS3, XML, PHP, JavaScript, ASP.net, and jQuery  • Utilized AngularJS http, controllers, services, scopes, and forms to setup truck routes  • Developed mockups from wireframes and PSD's  • Setup Drupal 7 CMS for marketing team to make changes on the fly  • Team consisted of .net/linux Developers and QA analysts.  • Used Visual Studios 2010 Pro to modify files and submit them in Perforce  • Reported and resolved bugs in TFS  • Developed mobile site using jQuery Mobile UI  • Hand coded all HTML code and CSS rules from scratch to be utilized for testing and production  • Utilized jQuery themeroller for UI interaction  • Worked with offsite developers communicating through Skype and Basecamp  • Created multiple tools to expedite daily tasks using PHP/MySQL/AJAX.  • ExtJS and jQuery were primary libraries used in conjunction with JSON or XML and AJAX. HTML, DHTML, and XHTML were used to display content formatted using CSS.  • Hand coded JavaScript was frequently used in hand coded or library environments to perform a variety of functions. Application Developer Bloomberg L.P - Princeton, NJ March 2012 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  • Architect Java/J2EE development structure for Rational Application Developer.  • Developed web applications with W3C XHTML, HTML5, CSS3 standards and using Ruby, Rails, Git and Heroku.  • Developing Android Mobile applications with Xamarin Studio in using Xcode in Swift.  • Develop native Android application according to design using objective C.  • Optimize postgresql.conf for performance improvement. Review all PostgreSQL logs for problems.  • Architect web-based maintenance application to maintain complex specification documents. Used JQuery, Wicket, and iBatis against a MySQL database  • Automated the cloud deployments using chef, python (boto & fabric) and AWS Cloud Formation Templates.  • Worked with Database Administration support and troubleshooting, including install PostgreSQL software, patches and upgrades; manage and monitor Tablespaces.  • Used Celery with RabbitMQ, MySQL, Django, and Flask to create a distributed worker framework.  • Developed Ruby on Rails apps, deployed to Amazon Web Services ElasticBeanstalk and internally on a Linux server using Ansible.  • Involved extensively in designing Mobile Strategies to build applications for iOS Mobile Platform.  • Worked with SQL Server 2003 and 2005  • Worked with ACT client software  • Worked with HTML, XHTML, CSS3, ASP.net, PHP, and JavaScript  • Worked with Active Directory Management and Citrix Software for internal user log ins for the companies domain  • Languages utilized were HTML, XHTML, CSS3, XML, PHP, Javascript, and jQuery  • Designed and developed mockups and utilized wireframes for modules and landing pages  • Converted previous site to Wordpress and utilized it as a CMS to host new site in an ASP.net environment  • Worked closely with a team of Developers, QA analysts, and Graphic Developers  • Utilized Visual Studios 2010 Pro to report and resolve bugs in TFS  • Implemented headers and footers for all 134 cobrand sites  • Hand coded all HTML code and CSS3 rules from scratch  • Utilized jQuery themeroller for UI interaction in Rate Funnels  • Used Adobe Creative Suite CS5 and Notepad++ for coding and graphic adjustments  • Communications are through AJAX with JSON responses and all JavaScript is written in JSON format. Web Developer Leidos - King George, VA November 2010 to February 2012 Responsibilities:  • Looked over all IT operations and made decisions and budgets for all internal IT related projects  • Worked with HTML, XHTML, ASP.net, PHP, jQuery, and JavaScript  • Worked on the MySQL migration project to make the system completely independent of the database being used. Used Spring IBatis to implement this.  • Prepared statements are used for communication with MySql database  • Involved in developing custom taglibs, JSP, EJB's, JQuery, Portlets and DB2 - stored procedures.  • Used TOAD for all database query testing and optimizations.  • Architect Dash-Board to monitor and report Cache Coherence Servers.  • Worked on multiple projects based on Oracle ADF framework and Oracle WebCenter  • Implemented CSS3, DOM Api, DOJO and Ajax to create a dynamic and interactive experience.  • Used J2EE based App Servers like Jboss WebSphere Weblogic and Web servers like Apache Tomcat  • Worked with the creation of Store Procedures. Involved in writing SQL queries, Stored Procedures to accomplish complex functionalities.  • Part of team creating quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  • Developed Reusable classes in the middleware using Hibernate.  • Involved in writing lots of JSP for maintains and enhancements of the application. Worked on Front End using Servlets and also backend using EJB and Hibernate.  • Worked on Presentation Layer using Struts Tiles, JSPs and Servlets.  • Created quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  • Setting of DB2 build settings in RAD application development server. Utilized CSS3 in every project and custom PHP hooks  • Worked with Photoshop CS4 and CS5 for all graphic work  • Developed code in Dreamweaver CS4 and CS5 and notepad++  • Managed an average of 5 major projects per month | all separate clients  • Built, managed, and deployed Directories and Membership Databases to handle 7000 employees  • Designed, developed and maintained company's facebook and twitter accounts | including clients  • Setup and Utilized VMware and VirtualBox for software and cross-browser testing  • Utilized GoToMeeting and GoToAssist for CMS demo and training as well as initial welcome calls and international conference calls.  • Utilized Google Apps, Analytics, Adwords, and more features offered by Google  • Worked with non-profit organizations and provided them solutions for their organization's website  • Maintained company's network infrastructure and employee portal  • Reported progress daily to the president of the company Web Developer York Solutions, LLC - Minneapolis, MN May 2009 to October 2010 Responsibilities:  • Developed and administrated company's website utilizing languages such as HTML, CSS3, PHP, and Javascript.  • Built and evaluated all email and Pay Per Click (PPC) campaigns  • Worked with Adobe Creative Suites, Notepad++, and Visual Studios  • Languages utilized were HTML, XHTML, CSS3, XML, PHP, JavaScript, ASP.net, and jQuery  • Utilized AngularJS http, controllers, services, scopes, and forms to setup truck routes  • Developed mockups from wireframes and PSD's  • Setup Drupal 7 CMS for marketing team to make changes on the fly  • Team consisted of .net/linux Developers and QA analysts.  • Used Visual Studios 2010 Pro to modify files and submit them in Perforce  • Reported and resolved bugs in TFS  • Developed mobile site using jQuery Mobile UI  • Hand coded all HTML code and CSS rules from scratch to be utilized for testing and production  • Utilized jQuery themeroller for UI interaction  • Developed automation test cases using Java and Junit on Eclipse application.  • Extensively involved in the development of backend Logics or data access logic using Oracle DB & JDBC.  • Developed and designed loan application using PHP scripting  • Utilized Google Analytics for marketing purposes  • Managed all computer and network related issues as well as provide technical support  • Helped the company expand nationwide  • Built company's clientele from 15 to well over 300  • Established a stronger profit income Education Bachelor's