Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer New York, NY Experienced Web Developer/Designer seeking a position in Web Development/Design. Work Experience Web Developer BytesBot Inc - New York, NY June 2012 to January 2018 ? Edited Drupal content types and views to maintain Drupal website for client   ? Maintained Drupal backup process to keep client Drupal website up to date   ? Administered, monitored and added content to client Wordpress Site.  ? Edited Wordpress PHP code in templates to add functionality and additional features.  ? Created Gala Journal Print Ads using Adobe Illustrator and Indesign   ? Coded new web pages from page mockups   ? Created banner graphics, resize and color correct images with Photoshop   ? Installed and adjusted JavaScript code for slideshows   ? Tweaked ASP scripts to maintain pages on website Web Developer Musica Reginae - Queens, NY July 2015 to August 2015 ? Managed current news and events by posting new content with PHP, HTML and CSS code   ? Maintained a GIT Repository on the website to keep data integrity intact   ? Archived deprecated content to an archive section of the site by adding and editing PHP code   ? Ensured all code was validated and compliant to web standards Web Designer Castillo Theatre - New York, NY January 2010 to September 2013 ? Recoded old pages to refresh and liven up their Squarespace website  ?  Added new content with HTML, CSS and Photoshop  ?  Shot and recorded all theatre performances, events and classes  ?  Edited and encoded video content on Final Cut Pro for online uploads  ?  Photographed Castillo Theatre’s UX Classes  ? Installed microphones and cabling for video shoots Web Developer Peter Lee Designs - New York, NY August 2012 to September 2012 ? Hand-coded a PHP script that allowed a comment box to send emails to the user   ? Researched technologies such as CAPTCHA for client use   ? Consulted with client to establish project parameters Web Designer Puccini Restaurant - Whitestone, NY December 2011 to March 2012 ?  Designed and implemented the overall appearance of website  ?  Consulted with client on specific website goals and needs  ?  Tweaked PHP code in the WordPress theme to hide blog theme features  ?  Created pages using web standards compliant code  ?  Implemented Google Analytics for SEO research data  ?  Photographed stills and produced all of the client web content Assistant Web Developer Studio Spirito - Brooklyn, NY April 2011 to June 2011 ? Modified content types, added menus and links in Drupal   ? Formatted CSS on Drupal content pages   ? Tweaked pages to reflect client's new specifications Web Designer Lois Cunniff Productions - New York, NY July 2010 to February 2011 ?  Consulted with client to help redesign a new website experience  ?  Modified old deprecated HTML and CSS and replaced site with modern code  ?  Assured that all code was cross-browser compatible and web standards compliant  ?  Modified images using Photoshop slices to optimize for the web  ?  Troubleshot technical difficulties for website Video Editor - Production Artist Competitrack - Long Island, NY July 1997 to November 2008 ? Edited ad hoc video reels for clients  ? Designed DVD reels to client specifications using DVD Studio Pro  ? Encoded TV ads into a digital form and backed up all digital media  ? Created digital storyboards from recorded TV ads  ? Modified still images from TV Ads using Adobe Photoshop  ? Transcribed audio from radio commercials  ? Communicated with Sales and Customer service for ad hoc jobs Education Cisco Certified Entry Networking Technician (CCENT) certification in Cybersecurity and Networking Per Scholas - Brooklyn, NY January 2018 to May 2018 Certificate of Web Programming in HTML, CSS, JavaScript, SQL, PHP Hunter College - City University of New York - New York, NY January 2012 to December 2012 Bachelor's Degree in Film Production Brooklyn College - City University of New York - New York, NY September 1994 to June 1998 Skills Acrobat Professional (10+ years), Adobe Premiere (2 years), Bash (3 years), Blender (Less than 1 year), Bootstrap (2 years), Cisco (Less than 1 year), CSS (7 years), Dreamweaver (8 years), Excel (5 years), FTP (8 years), HTML (7 years), Illustrator (3 years), Indesign (3 years), Javascript (3 years), Jquery (3 years), Photoshop (10+ years), PHP (4 years), Drupal (6 years), Wordpress (6 years), HTML5 (7 years), Front End (8 years), Git, HTML 5, MySQL Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/paulliweb http://www.cinematicpoetry.com Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Entry Networking Technician (CCENT) Certification May 2018