Web Developer Instructor <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Instructor Fresno, CA Over 10 years of experience in all facets of web design including e-commerce, from personally  meeting with clients to discuss their goals in having a web presence, to research and analysis,  design, development, testing, and implementation of code and applications, as well as a variety  of graphic design and artwork. Has been both a team leader and a team member, and knows  what it takes to get things done. Doesn't only create working inter/intranet sites, but creates  better ones and continually strives to improve a site's usability, functionality, and navigation  throughout its lifecycle. Work Experience Web Developer Instructor Condensed Curriculum International June 2019 to Present At Amazon's fulfillment center I provided practical hands-on instruction in an engaging learning  environment, incorporating innovative teaching methodologies in order to enhance the learning  experience of our students and achieve learning outcomes.  ? Train and evaluate a group of 40 adult students on topics such as HTML5, CSS3, Javascript/JQuery, third-party Javascript libraries, and also provide an introduction to the  concept of Functional Programming.  ? The students are trained to pass the 98-375 MTA HTML5 Application Development  Fundamentals Exam for Microsoft Certification. Senior Web Developer / Graphic Designer MAW Productions March 2006 to Present As the Senior Web Developer I have helped define, build, and advance our next-generation web  properties in new and exciting ways. I have hands-on with a range of front-end and back-end  technologies.  ? Designed and programmed standards based websites for small to medium sized  businesses utilizing XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, and MySQL, Bootstrap framework  ? Implemented CMS and Ecommerce based dynamic sites with open source platforms  such as Wordpress, Drupal, and Magento Ecommerce  ? Regularly met with clients to review project goals and to create proposals for future  developments, researching their fields for UI/UX design  ? Photographed commercial products for Ecommerce as well as business personnel for both web and print mediums  ? Administered Google Adwords campaigns on clients' behalf, set measurable goals, and tracked trends and metrics in Google Analytics  ? UI/UX development to create a seamless customer experience for a high traffic e- commerce website through desktop, mobile and smart phone app interfaces Web Designer UX Duncan Enterprises October 2016 to July 2019 Design websites on a wide spectrum for brands such as Aleene's Premium Glue, Tattoo Junkee  Cosmetics, Lique Cosmetics, Remi Rose Cosmetics, Duncan Ceramics, Tie Dye By Tulip, Color  Rush, Tulip Color, Create Basics, Duncan, Scribbles, Puffy Paint and more.  ? Create web and mobile prototypes and integrate with softwares like Invisionapp and UX-Pen  ? Deploy fresh clean HTML5, CSS3, Javascript and JQuery.  ? Manage all brands online presence using NOPcommerce and other asp.net platforms  ? Weekly provide fresh newsletters based on promotions, sales, and targeted driven  campaigns.  ? Work with copy writers, graphic designers, creative director, SEO specialist, programmers, and brand managers to deliver sites that perform like winners.  ? Full engagement with on page SEO using software like BrightEdge SEO, Google  Analytics, and Adwords to help further the company's search results success. Web Developer / Graphic Designer Full Throttle Suspension July 2010 to October 2016 As having a web and graphic design background I currently hold the position title as a web  developer. I have the responsibility of coordinating and generating all digital needs.    ? Coordinated execution of email broadcast campaigns, public relations, marketing trade  shows and events, outbound calls, media advertisements, field promotions, customer  communications, and other marketing plans  ? Frequently managed online marketing campaigns successfully and published write-ups  on social networking websites and blogs.  ? Developed various marketing materials such as brochures, catalogs, product  descriptions, proposals, and newsletters. Wrote, maintained, and updated web content on a monthly basis.  ? Creation of an E-Commerce website based on the Magento platform.  ? Photographed commercial products both web and print mediums  ? Administered Google Adwords campaigns on clients' behalf, set measurable goals, and tracked trends and metrics in Google Analytic Education Graphic Communication Fresno City College 2005 to 2007 Skills Android studio, Javascript, Bootstrap, Php, Android, Angularjs, Wordpress, Front End, HTML5, Angular Links http://www.mitchdaniel.com Additional Information SKILLS  Technical Skills: HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, jQquery, PHP, MySQL, Bootstrap  Operating Systems: OSX, Windows 7, Windows 8, Linux, Android, IOS  Applications: Magento, Drupal, Joomla, WordPress, NopCommerce,  Software: Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, Premiere, Corel Draw, Eclipse, Android Studio,  xCode