Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - Blue Mogul Enterprise, LLC Humble, TX Web Developer specializing in front end development. Experienced with all stages of the  development cycle for dynamic web projects. Well-versed in numerous programming languages  including JavaScript, SQL, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS and CMS platforms (Word-press, Bootstrap &  Joolma). Strong background in project management, web-hosting/Domain management and customer relations. Work Experience Web Developer Blue Mogul Enterprise, LLC - Houston, TX January 2014 to Present Updated and managed existing website properties for Blue Mogul  Nonprofit organization clients.  Modify existing Word-press code and design complex interfaces to support third party  systems.  Help shape IT strategic vision and drive key departmental objectives.    Worked closely with product managers, visual designers and development team to appropriately evolve designs from concept to  launch.  Projects:  Blue Mogul:  Redesign Company Main Website - www.Blue Mogul.biz (skilled used:  HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Word-press CMS, Cpanel Management)    Tri-County Black Chamber of Commerce:  Main Chamber website development- http://www. tcbcc.org (skilled used:  HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Word-press & Membership Plugin)  Non-Profit website development - http://www.womenunited.com s  (skilled used: Bootstrap, WooCommerce) Web Developer/Database Manager Hewlett-Packard Company - Houston, TX November 2012 to December 2012 Revised user flows and designs based on design reviews, usability  testing, A/B testing and other analytics, customer support feedback and other sources of input.  Strategics ways to leverage various communication channels including  browser, mobile, tablet, and others.  Worked closely with several cross-functional teams including business  solution architects, customer operations, support and training teams and engineering to maximize product efficacy.  Projects:  CMIT Team  Managed SharePoint site with updated team related information  (skilled used MS_SQL, MS SharePoint)  CMIT Website Development Project - work on development of a new  portal for sales team could in marketing new products in the field.  (skilled used Rudy on Rails, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript) Sr. Web Developer/ Web Administrator EWaste Collections - Irving, TX October 2011 to August 2012 Developed and maintained company style guide.  Presented pros and cons of various design approaches to design teams and management.  Presented solutions to complex design problems in presentations, click- through prototypes and design specifications.  Drove the alignment of business requirements, user-centered design  methodology and technology factors to create successful UI/UX  designs.  Projects:  Ewaste Collections  Setup the Company website www.ewaste-collections.com  (skilled used: Cpanel, Web Hosting & Domain registration, WordPress-CMS, HTML, CSS, JavaScript) Web Developer/ Web Administration GRRA - Greensboro, NC July 2006 to April 2010 Drove the alignment of business requirements, user-centered design  methodology and technology factors to create successful UI/UX  designs.  Conducted usability testing and integrated feedback into revisions.  Translated observational data from contextual investigations, interviews and natural observations into user needs and functional requirements.  Solicited feedback and validation from business and technical team  stakeholders. Worked closely with product managers, visual designers  and development team to appropriately evolve designs from concept to launch.  Projects:  GRRA  GRRA - created a new subscription-based website for GRRA, www.grra.org (skilled used PHP, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript)  Created and Developed the GRRA commercial REALTOR's website: ncrli, nc-ccim, grra-rca presence. (skilled used: PHP, MySQL, HTML, JavaScript,  CSS, Word-press CMS) Aviation U.S. Army - Fort Bragg, NC June 1990 to July 2005 Demonstrate excellent mechanical knowledge of machines and tools, including design, use, repair and maintenance.  Inspect equipment and systems to identify issues and report problems to repair technicians.  Prepare operational reports and provide information to supervisors.  Communicate product and machine failure details to the design team and reliability departments. Education Bachelor of Science in Management Information Systems High Point University - High Point, NC 2006 Skills Wordpress, HTML5, Front End, Javascript, PHP Military Service Branch: US Army Service Country: United States Rank: na 1990 to 2005 Groups National Society of Pershing Rifles Present Phi Beta Sigma, Inc Present