Photographer/Owner Photographer/Owner Hackettstown, NJ Highly motivated information systems expert with 10+ years of experience developing web sites for businesses. Seeking a position that leverages current skill set while learning new technologies to optimize efficiency and automate tasks through programming solutions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Photographer/Owner Chris Bartow Photography - Hackettstown, NJ 2012 to Present Created a wedding photography business by leveraging social media, search engine  optimization, and providing amazing value to gain referrals.  ? Photographed 25+ weddings a year as the primary photographer along with working as a second photographer for others in the industry.  ? Hired sub-contractors as second photographers on the wedding day.  ? Edited photos using Adobe Lightroom and Adobe Photoshop. Designed fine art photo  albums for clients.  ? Built web site using SquareSpace. Blogged weddings creating venue specific content for SEO Purposes and attract new clients.  ? Blogged weddings for the purpose of creating content that future couples could find by searching for photos at their wedding venue. This generated the majority of my new  clients using SEO. Web Designer/Owner Internet Cake - Hackettstown, NJ 2002 to 2014 Created small business web sites with the ability to update their own content using  custom, easy to use back-ends written in PHP, Javascript, and MySQL.  ? Set up web hosting, email, and DNS on unix based platforms. Provided customer  support for email and web site issues.  ? Started the website HackettstownLife.com, a local community site that grew to 50k+  visitors and 750k+ page views per month, which is still the the go to source for local  news and community information.  ? Responsible for small business operation tasks such as accounting, invoicing, and bookkeeping via Quickbooks, submitted quarterly taxes, designing marketing materials,  and attended networking events.  ? Created contracts for development projects and recurring work. Web Programmer Earthcam - Hackensack, NJ 2002 to 2002 Built web-based camera control software (Javascript/PHP/MySQL) that allowed clients to monitor and control their camera systems.  ? Enabled users to log in remotely and view/control their camera systems located at construction sites, stores, Times Square, and more.  ? Developed back-end solution so customer service technicians were able to add new  clients/cameras via the administrative area. Web Developer GOES - Hackettstown, NJ 1998 to 2002 Developed web sites for small businesses using Cold Fusion and Microsoft Access that  allowed clients to manage their own content.  ? Reduced the need for clients to contact the company for minor changes.  ? Developed customer service system in Microsoft Access to track customer issues  across multiple technical support representatives. Generate call reports for management and integrated with billing software.  ? Hardware/Software installation and upgrades for servers and workstations.  ? Wired and configured networking and telephony devices.  ? Administrative tasks for dialup, email, and hosting accounts via FreeBSD servers to resolve issues with customers accounts.  ? Customer service and technical support for dial-up Internet and web hosting customers. Education BS in Computer Information Systems Centenary College - Hackettstown, NJ 2003 AAS CIS in Scientific Programming County College of Morris - Township of Randolph, NJ 2001 Skills Html, Javascript, Php, Css, Mysql, Apache, Photoshop, Adobe photoshop, Macos Additional Information Skills  ? Web Technologies // HTML, CSS, PHP, Javascript, Apache, MySQL  ? Operating Systems // MacOS, Windows  ? Photography // Adobe Lightroom, Adobe Photoshop