Electrician Apprentice Electrician Apprentice Computer Systems Engineer Calexico, CA Advanced WEB developer with more than 10 years of experience in structuring, developing and implementing interactive websites. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Electrician Apprentice Baja Electrical - Los Angeles, CA October 2018 to June 2019 Install, repair and maintain residential electrical systems, including lighting fixtures, electrical panels, outlets and wiring. Troubleshooting and diagnostics. Senior WEB Developer DUXER WEB - Calexico, CA October 2014 to October 2018 Meet with clients to gather requirements, design sites, and outline schedules. Manage web projects with 2-5 developers. Develop concepts, control project flow and ensure deliverable milestones are met. IT Technician Grupo Salinas - Calexico, CA 2013 to 2014 Working on customer service and attention to staff solving deferent problems on IT area such as: system development, network installation and server configuration. Advanced WEB developer PQV WEB Solutions 2005 to 2013 Eight years working on sales, administration, development and support of web systems and sites with friendly interfaces, efficient and profitable for several companies. In addition to providing web hosting services with dedicated servers and the responsibility of hardware and software administration and maintenance. Moreover, developing projects for companies such as Conagua, Imip Mexicali, UABC, DARE, Águilas de Mexicali, Soles de Mexicali. In this manner helping to increase the potential and performance in the computer science area for these companies. Education Bachelor's in Computer Systems Engineering UNIVERSIDAD UNIVER - Mexicali BC 2005 to 2008 Skills Control systems, .net, C++, Javascript, Php, Visual basic, Visual basic .net, Xml, Cms, Ajax, Asp, Mysql, Sql, Html5, Maintenance, Administrative assistant, Microsoft office, Construction, Machine Operator, computer equipment repair Additional Information Logical-mathematical reasoning, team work, creativity and innovation, adaptation, pressure tolerance.