Systems Administrator Systems Administrator Automation and Interaction Specialist Albany, NY Experienced network and systems administrator and web developer. Hobbyist embedded/IoT developer. Work Experience Systems Administrator Teal, Becker, and Chiaramonte - Albany, NY October 2014 to Present Active Directory management (create/delete accounts, groups, policies, etc.) Includes management of Exchange mail and webmail, ADFS. Hardware installation and upgrades. Perfoming weekly application updates on the in-house Citrix MCS farm running on VMware VCenter. Desktop end-user technical support. Documentation of procedures and network operation. Setup and maintenance of Citrix Netscalers and internal GNU/Linux-based web application and storage servers. Web Developer QuartzIris IS - Albany, NY January 2007 to October 2014 Leveraging contacts and positive coworker relationships from TVG, worked as an independent contract web developer, building web applications typically based on Drupal, for clients throughout New York state and Massachusetts. Web Developer Tech Valley Graphics - Albany, NY July 2007 to December 2007 Worked on websites frontend/backend in a small team context until business was sold out of state and all staff were laid off. Also handled testing environment maintenance and data preservation. Education Bachelor's in Information Science SUNY at Albany - Albany, NY January 2009 to May 2011 Associate in Computer Information Systems Hudson Valley Community College - Albany, NY September 2005 to December 2008 Skills Active Directory (5 years), Linux Administrator (10+ years), System Administrator (10+ years), Vmware (5 years), Redhat (10+ years), Citrix (3 years), Drupal (10+ years), Web Development (10+ years), Computer Hardware (10+ years), Network Administration (10+ years), Python (10+ years), Java (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), C (10+ years), C# (3 years), JQuery (10+ years), PHP (10+ years), System Admin, Linux (10+ years), Git (10+ years), Mercurial (10+ years) Additional Information Proficient with computer scripting and automation (bash, powershell, python). Good communication skills. Also proficient with embedded systems programming in C on the TI MSP430 microcontroller, the ESP8266 microcontroller, and somewhat proficient with the Arduino platform.