Drupal Web Developer Drupal <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Drupal Web Developer - GDIT Work Experience Drupal Web Developer GDIT May 2016 to Present Duties and Responsibilities:  Supports and develops web applications for PBGC (Drupal 7 site: https://www.PBGC.gov/ and SharePoint internal  site: https://pbgcgov.sharepoint.com/Pages/Intranet_Default.aspx).  Possesses knowledge and understanding of user interface analysis and web design, coding, testing, integration, deployment, and maintenance.  Developed PHP modules, customized themes, and customized Drupal hooks API functionalities.  Uses HTML5 for the layout and structure of user interface pages, including image and video placement.  Implements CSS3 multi-device responsive design and color backgrounds.  Uses JavaScript for dynamic definition and user input response.  Uses JQuery dynamic definition and user input response and builds dynamic data structures.  Uses MySQL to query, update, and delete data from the database, debugging view issues and the global search  replace operation which included implement storage procedure.  Uses AJAX to send and retrieve data from server asynchronously without interfering with the display in custom  modules.  The following list are completed and/or ongoing programs    Daily operation:  1. Work with client to implement daily web contents update and document retention policy for https://pdev.pbgc.gov / https://pbgcgov.sharepoint.com/Pages/Intranet_Default.aspx websites.  2. Support client in identifying updating, modifying and removing existing/new content for https://pdev.pbgc.gov// https://pbgcgov.sharepoint.com/Pages/Intranet_Default.aspx websites.  3. Validate deliverables are Section 508 compliant for PDF documents.    Development projects:  Design/redefine, develop, implement testing and deployed the following Drupal custom modules:  1. Custom advance search module driven by Solr api index for pbgc.gov website, which functioning in search, sort, grouping, validation and collection/analyst of search operation usage info.  2. custom token module for auto generate page URL for typed page.  3. State-by-State custom module for importing data from excel file to auto update 50 states Pension Plan  Information, reduce process time from two people for two days to 15 minutes.  4. Custom module to select and generate web page stale report and sent email to content owner.  5. Custom module for links validation checker, which will run through all node pages and blocks in pbgc.gov website to find any broken link which can either be ran on web page interface or by drush  command.  6. Custom module for preview the draft page before publishing which included better theming capabilities  for published page.    Environment: Drupal 7, HTML, CSS, HTML5, CSS3 JavaScript, PHP, jQuery, Drush, GIT, WinSCP, MySQL, Acquia Cloud, Adobe Dreamweaver CC Drupal Web Developer MS Carita Inc September 2014 to September 2015 Duties and Responsibilities:  Built and maintained all aspects of the company website (www.mscarita.com) using Drupal as the only onsite  developer.  Possessed knowledge and understanding of user interface analysis, web design, coding, testing, integration, deployment, and maintenance.  Developed PHP modules, customized themes, and customized Drupal hooks API functionalities.  Used HTML5 for the layout and structure of user interface pages, including image and video placement.  Implemented CSS3 multi-device responsive design and color backgrounds.  Used JavaScript/ jQuery /AJAX for dynamic definition and user input response.  Used MySQL to query, update, and delete data from the database, debugging view issues and the global search  replace operation.  Rebuilder the company Drupal 6 commerce website with shopping car functionality into Drupal 7 by myself alone, which involves Design/define, develop, implement, testing and deployment process.    Environment: Drupal 7, HTML, CSS, HTML5, CSS3 JavaScript, PHP, jQuery, Drush, Python, AJAX, MySQL, usability testing, Agile methodology, Eclipse Drupal /UI Developer/ Web Support MMM Tech September 2010 to September 2014 Duties and Responsibilities:  Work with client to implement daily web contents update and document retention and support client in identifying  updating, modifying and removing existing/new content for web pages including Section 508 compliance.    The followings are involved from everyday operation and developments:  Developed HTML and CSS templates.  Maintained current websites, including updating web page styles, uploading new content/changes, etc.  Involved in creating user interactive webpages using web technologies like HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, and PHP  based on World Wide Web Consortium and Americans with Disabilities Act standards.  Worked as part of a team to develop cross-browser-compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  Developed front-end applications and user interactive/user experience webpages using web technologies like HTML, HTML 5, CSS, CSS 3, JavaScript, and JQuery PHP.  Extensively involved in design discussions and user experience sessions to provide input on the user experience  layout.  Installed and configured Apache PHP MySQL development server in a Windows environment.  Troubleshot front-end issues and optimized search engine functionality and results.  Fixed HTML errors in site core content editor.  Performed GET and POST requests in AJAX using XML, in JSON using JavaScript and jQuery. Involved in fixing front-end layout issues.  Coordinated project activities and ensured that all project phases were followed and documented properly.  Updated the current website while simultaneously handling other projects.  Environment: HTML, CSS, HTML5, CSS3 JavaScript, PHP, jQuery, Python, AJAX, MySQL, usability testing, Agile methodology, Eclipse Windows application Programmer System Specialists Inc January 2007 to August 2010 Duties and Responsibilities:  Develop, implement, testing and deploy commerce application for property management.  The followings are involved from everyday operation and developments:    Discussed and identified technical requirements with the system analyst.  Articulated business strategy and branding issues and balanced them with user needs and technological constraints.  Worked closely with product managers, developers, and internal stakeholders throughout the product design.  Designated user interface architecture for the internal web application and worked with designers to construct  conceptual Wireframes.  Involved in various technical such as crystal reports and architectural design discussions with back-end teams as well as front-end teams to integrate the front-end and back-end.  Involved in providing pseudo application level code to interact with windows APIs.  Developed interface layouts and navigations and presented designs and concepts for client and management  review.  Responsible for the design of client interface from the conceptualization stage through implementation and maintenance.  Worked with teams to constantly test, improve, and implement requirements.  Handled all aspects of the application project including maintaining, testing, debugging, and deploying.  Environment: MS Access, DB2, FoxPro, Paradox, JSON, Delphi, SQL Server 2005, Eclipse, Windows Programmer/Analyst GDIT January 2002 to April 2006 Dates/Time Frame: 01/2002 to 04/2006  (Agency/Organization: department of Labor)  Position Title: Programmer/Analyst  Duties and Responsibilities:  Work with DOL client to implement support client in identifying updating, modifying windows based  management application program.  The followings are involved from everyday operation and developments:    Implemented object-oriented concepts to design/develop in a Windows-based enterprise software application;  designed user interface and analyzed software.  Performed requirements analysis, executed test cases, logged defects, and prepared test reports.  Used working knowledge of procedure on document and script software design, application specifications, and software quality assurance testing to meet CMMI Level 2 requirements.  Carried out stress testing and optimized performance by writing complex SQL queries against Informix databases on a Unix platform.  Implemented an application workflow function for users to manage their daily work automatically.  Designed, tested, and documented business objects, which provided overall management control for the Wage and Hour Division.  As part of a team, developed automated information system software that allowed customers to submit inquires and updates.  Identified bugs in new and existing code, determined root causes, and suggested possible bug fixes.  Environment: Delphi, Informix, DB2, Windows Education AA in Computer Science Montgomery College 1992 BA in Computer Application South China University of Technology 1982