Web Developer / ApexHCM <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> / ApexHCM Looking for a New Challenge Alpharetta, GA Graduated Magna Cum Laude with a 3.76 GPA. Georgia Merit Scholar, Georgia HOPE Scholar, Julius B. Pulliam Scholarship, Dean's List (Multiple Semesters), Who's Who in American Colleges and Universities, 2004 Work Experience Web Developer / ApexHCM ApexHCM - Roswell, GA 2014 to July 2019 Develop, debug, test, maintain, and support enhancements and features for the Employer On The Go,  My Employer On The Go, Reporting, and Employer On Demand applications using C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET,  JavaScript, Crystal Reports, and SQL. Gather requirements from stakeholders and create prototypes for their approval. Test newly added code and features prior to release. Develop, troubleshoot and optimize  SQL queries and Crystal Reports. Provide mentorship to new colleagues. Provide on-call support and assistance to the support and QA departments when needed. Keep all annual and quarterly software  generated Crystal Reports tax forms up to date, free of problems, and in compliance with state and federal requirements. Engage directly with state and federal agencies to determine requirements and  submit completed work for testing, approval, and deployment to the production environment.    • In charge of deploying software updates for the Reporting Suite and associated applications to the development and production environments.  • Instrumental in handling software and code related issues during the very busy end of year  season.  • Winner of the 2019 Technology Excellence Award. Web Developer ADP - Alpharetta, GA 2008 to 2014 Worked closely with the Marketing team to gather and complete requirements and debug applications as well as with project stakeholders and peer developers to deliver software solutions that fulfill  business needs. Handled the configuration of and maintenance of multiple web server environments,  including production environments. Assumed full responsibility in writing code while maintaining the ADP Employment Report and the ADP Workforce Report. Coordinated with Networking and DBA teams  ensuring that the applications were ready to go live. Dealt with the deployment of the applications to the production environments as well as expansion of Sitecore 6.x CMS API to provide new functionality.    Served as a driving force behind the successful development, maintenance, support, and deployment of the following websites:    • (http://www.adpemploymentreport.com/) for the ADP National Employment Report that  provides a monthly snapshot of U.S. nonfarm private sector employment based on actual  transactional payroll data compiled by ADP.  • (http://www.adp.com/tools-and-resources/adp-research-institute.aspx) for the ADP Research  Institute which combines ADP's worldwide expertise in the workplace with a deep, fundamental  approach to keep abreast of latest trends. Implementation Specialist Home Depot - Smyrna, GA 2007 to 2008 Rendered assistance in configuring hardware, such as label printers and barcode scanners. Diagnosed  errors in reports generated by UNIX and LINUX based systems. Conducted visits to remote sites in Atlanta and elsewhere to support the implementation of Manhattan Associates Warehouse  Management software and the associated hardware. Organized hardware equipment for the new WMS  implementation during onsite visits. Offered onsite hardware support all throughout the final stages of testing and actual go-live. Held responsible for the setting and troubleshooting print queues on  UNIX/AIX and Windows 2003 servers as well as software bugs; configuring and testing Symbol 5090 and  9090 wireless RF devices; rendering support in Manhattan Associates WMS application.  • Made major contribution in the initiation of new Warehouse Management software and in streamlining supply chain system throughout the United States and Canada.  • Executed server maintenance to ensure maximum application performance. Software Developer Manhattan Associates - Vinings, GA 2004 to 2007 Worked collaboratively with the Consulting Team, responsible for writing modules in C#, F#, J# and Java for the Manhattan Associates Warehouse Management System. Demonstrated expertise in creating  custom C# and J# code for modification of Windows Warehouse Management application. Partnered with customers at remote client sites to troubleshoot and install the application.    • Produced production code modules for life-cycle testing and end user approval as well as SQL  queries to drive C# and J# data-driven, database enabled applications.  • Efficiently pioneered custom coding modifications, including Crystal Reports, C# and J# modules,  and SQL Server 2000 triggers and DTS Packages to meet client's specific needs. Education B.S. in Information Systems Clayton College and State - Morrow, GA May 2004 Skills ASP (5 years), ASP.NET (5 years), C# (8 years), Crystal Reports (8 years), SQL. (8 years), Javascript, NET, Jquery, HTML Additional Information Skills  C# Visual Studio 2017 HTML JavaScript ASP.NET Microsoft TFS OO Concepts  Microsoft Office Applications (Word, Excel, PowerPoint) Software Development  Software QA VB.NET SQL Server 2016 jQuery CSS SQL XML Sitecore 6.x Windows  Server 2016 Crystal Reports Telerik Web Controls Git