Web Applications Engineer <span class="hl">Web</span> Applications Engineer Highly Proficient Software Engineer Colorado Springs, CO Work Experience Web Applications Engineer Encore, Inc October 2011 to Present Rebuilt the company's public-facing websites, which resulted in an 80% increase in unique traffic.  Of those, 95% converted to customers.  ? Developed company internal custom web applications using Python, PHP, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS which led to a decrease of 20 hours in client wait times.  ? Implemented security features in Python, PHP, JavaScript, and other projects codebase, helping  the company successfully pass 10 audits.    ? Devised unit and functional tests for reliability and cross-platform compatibility, increasing  automated testing in projects by over 50%.  ? Advise team members and customers on the use of the company websites, reducing lost  productivity per person by 15 minutes.  ? Consolidated company costs by moving projects and codebases from physical Linux servers to Github and a virtualized environment, which saved the company over $10,000 annually.  ? Standardized project and user testing in the development environment, which reduced projects  time to production by over 30%.  ? Led daily stand-up meetings with other developers and teams to help clear roadblocks, foster  communication, and provide direction where needed.  ? Reduced the company's resource costs by designing databases and connecting them to a content management system, saving over 50% capacity per Linux web server drive. Application Developer II Clayton Homes - Oak Ridge, TN April 2015 to April 2018 Enhanced multiple content management systems developed in Microsoft.Net with custom web  applications written in JavaScript, HTML, CSS and PHP to increase their efficiency by over 40%.  ? Created solutions with JavaScript core and libraries Angular, JQuery, Lodash, React and Vue, as well as, HTML, CSS and REST services to add custom functionality, like reducing search times to  under 200ms.  ? Built advanced web solutions and workflows for manufacturing, retail, sales, legal, and accounting business units which increased overall productivity by 70%.  ? Conducted product reviews with stakeholders and participated in regular code reviews, which achieved an over 98% story completion rate during sprints.  ? Mentored junior developers with custom training material and resources to attain the Application  Developer I title, which was achieved within 1 year.  ? Attended weekly planning sessions with other development teams and management, reducing  the amount of time to start a project by 8 hours.  ? Engineered a single page application using modern web technologies that helped thousands of natural disaster victims quickly find resources for insurance and accommodations. Web Developer/Architect Atkins Nuclear Solutions - Oak Ridge, TN May 2017 to January 2018 Developed, modified, and maintained multiple web server farms and top level websites worth  over $2 million dollars.  ? Gathered requirements and developed custom web and single page applications with HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Python, and PHP to save each team member at least 15 hours per week in  repetitive duties.  ? Created automated business solutions with workflow and the Microsoft .Net stack, which saved  HR a minimum of $500 per new hire and reduced engineering tasks by 25% with ordering  systems. Web Developer Digital Management, Inc - Colorado Springs, CO August 2014 to April 2015 Managed all phases of projects in a web application development environment, including design, development, testing, and production application of over 50 solutions for the US Air Force  Academy.  ? Researched and tested new technology and web development/design techniques on a daily  basis and determined how to integrate this technology into existing systems with little to no  impact.  ? Wrote and executed SQL Queries to locate and remove problem code in production with a 100%  success rate.  ? Designed custom web applications and forms with HTML, CSS, JavaScript with libraries Angular, React, XML, C#, Python, and PHP to combine business logic with form data and save it to a  database, allowing students to access hundreds of gigabytes of data. Information Systems Manager U.S. Army September 2006 to August 2014 Lead a Network Enterprise Center and responsible for the information systems security, integrity, and availability for thousands of workstations, servers, and end users.  ? Served as the Information Assurance Manager; Implemented policy and procedure to secure and defend the U.S. Army network against cyber-attacks;  ? Ensured network availability and quality of service to thousands of customers across South  Korea, the US and Germany.  ? Upgraded, tested, and maintained the 4th Infantry Division public facing website with PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and responsive templates.  ? Enhanced the web app user interface (UI) with HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JavaScript libraries  Angular, React, and Knockout, as well as JQuery. Education Associate of Science degree in Computer Science and evaluated in Computer Science and evaluated Central Texas College - Killeen, TX 2008 to 2009 computer science and maintaining US Army School of Information Technology and Telecommunications 2006 to 2009 Skills Api, C#, Django, Front-end, Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Typescript, Webpack, Php, Laravel, Symfony, Python, Flask, Scripting, Svn, Css, Java, jquery Additional Information Highly experienced Software Developer specializing in building front-end and back-end  applications with a meticulous emphasis on design quality, user experience, and efficient data  management. Expert programmer within all stages of the development cycle for progressive web  projects. Skilled in numerous programming languages and paradigms including Java, PHP,  Python, JavaScript, and SQL. Expert in project management with a strong background in  numerous industries.    SKILLS SUMMARY  WEB FRONT-END WEB BACK-END  ? HTML5: Document Object Model (DOM);  ? Server Operating Systems: Linux, Windows    Markdown ? Databases: MongoDB, SQL, MySQL, Oracle,  ? CSS3: Preprocessors SASS (SCSS) & LESS  PostgreSQL  ? CSS Frameworks: Semantic UI, Foundation, ? Scripting: Bash, PowerShell  Bootstrap, Tailwind, Bulma, Materialize ? Programming Languages: Java, Python, PHP,    ? JavaScript: Core, ES6, ESNext  C#  ? JavaScript Libraries & Frameworks: ? Node.JS with package managers NPM, Yarn    Backbone.JS, JQuery, Knockout.JS & task runners Grunt, Gulp, Webpack, Rollup  ? Data: Local Storage API, SQLite  ? API: REST, GraphQL  ? Server-side Rendering (SSR)  ? Version Management: Git, Jira, SVN, TFS    FULLSTACK  ? Libraries & Frameworks: JavaScript, PHP, and Python, i.e. Angular, React, TypeScript, (JS),  Django, Pyramid, Flask (Python), Laravel, Symfony, CakePHP (PHP)  ? Operating Systems: MS Windows: 95/98, XP, Vista, 10, Server '03-'17, with PowerShell scripting,  Linux: Many distros like Kali, Ubuntu, Fedora, CentOS, etc. with Bash scripting  ? Responsive Design for website, web app, and mobile experiences with highly efficient user  interfaces.  ? Testing and debugging large client-side and server-side applications (Automated, Unit,  Integration, System, Acceptance testing)  ? Cloud Architecture: Amazon (AWS), Google (G-Cloud), Microsoft (Azure), hybrid environments