JavaScript Instructor JavaScript Instructor WEB DEVELOPER Escondido, CA A.S. Graphic Arts, B.A. Sociology with four years work experience as a Web Developer. Work  duties have included supervision and training of employees, documentation, technical  support, and customer service. Natural problem solver, keen attention to detail, extending skill  set, adapting to coding conventions and best practices, calm under pressure, patient with  clients, crisis management, balancing perfectionism with meeting deadlines. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience JavaScript Instructor Platt College San Diego - San Diego, CA March 2019 to Present Teaching an accelerated 5 week Scripting for the Web course. Introduction to programming with JavaScript, hands-on learning. Focused on computer logic, strict standards-compliant, semantic, well-documented code. Efficient troubleshooting and debugging, project planning, establishing priorities, reusability, maintainability, UIX, simplicity and speed. Familiarized the students with DOM manipulation, variables, looping, complex conditionals, functions, methods, objects and arrays. Introduced JQuery and D3 for animation and effects.    ACCOMPLISHMENTS  Rewrote the course curriculum to focus on practical application of the basics of vanilla JavaScript. Assignments were based on real world scenarios I encountered in the line of work as a web developer. Tailored the lesson plan to match the students’ progress and individual learning styles, ensuring that every student attained proficiency with the material. Web Developer Dental Branding - Salt Lake City, UT May 2011 to May 2015 Code a site design into an SEO friendly, responsive website using HTML, CSS, JavaScript/jQuery and PHP, Troubleshoot existing websites from within the clients’ CMS, update content, Improve usability with mobile devices, Make esthetic changes based on principles of good design, Implement and enhance SEO, contribute to company-wide meetings, marketing strategy, Help grow the business and streamline workflow, Train new hires, Ensure client fulfillment, Provide tech support to clients and coworkers.  Accomplishments  Established the Web Development division of the Graphic Design department, created a hardware testing environment made up of multiple workstations and devices to reproduce our clients’ use cases, leading to improved quality control and customer satisfaction.  Created PHP/JavaScript software to generate our template websites and populate with client content drawn from a design brief, vastly increasing personal productivity, allowing more sites to be created in less time w/out need for additional staff, allowing for more time to be spent on customization, providing rapid prototype sites for the sales team to demonstrate. Education BACHELOR OF ARTS in SOCIOLOGY CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SAN BERNARDINO ASSOCIATE DEGREE IN GRAPHIC ARTS in Web Design Principles STEVENS-HENAGER COLLEGE - Murray, UT Skills Javascript, HTML5, Teaching, CPR, Photoshop, problem solving, Customer Service Skills, Team Building, Organizational Skills