Full-Stack Java Developer Full-Stack Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full-Stack Java Developer - FCP Insight Almaty Experienced Full-Stack Developer with a demonstrated history of working in IT companies and  financial services industries. Skilled at Back-end Development (Java, PHP, Python, microservices  development), Front-end(JavaScript, JQuery), DevOps Engineering (deploying microservices to AWS  Amazon), Data Analysis and DataBases (SQL/NoSQL: PostgreSQL, MySQL, Redis, MongoDB). Participant  in all phases of the development cycle.    Key Competencies & Offerings    Collaborate with team members and business representatives to gather and document requirements  Willingness to work outside standard business hours to resolves issues or complete special projects  Strong written and verbal communication skills, strong interpersonal skills  Ability to quickly learn and adopt diverse technologies  Motivated, self-directed, results oriented Work Experience Full-Stack Java Developer FCP Insight - Seattle, WA, US May 2019 to Present Remotely working)  Remote work in a company that is based in Seattle, WA. The company offers software and web  application for business owners. I am working on a project as a Java Developer:  Working with test and production databases (My SQL). Also, the project uses Redis  Development of microservice on Spring Boot and deploying it to the Amazon AWS ECS using  Docker  Migrating code from Struts1 to Struts 2  Adding new features to the project  Working with API on Spring Boot Full-Stack Web Developer JSC "Freedom Finance" October 2017 to 2019 Working on CRM of JSC "Freedom Finance". Half of the team is located in Kazakhstan and the other  half in Moscow, Russia this is why gained experience at remote working on the same project.  Fetching data from PostgreSQL, building complex queries with joins on many tables  Working with additional libraries as mPDF, Zend framework, Kendo-UI for JavaScript.  Working with data, optimizing queries September Gainful Internship as a Back-end Developer IT Company Kolesa 2017 to June 2017 Krisha. Market  4-month internship at one of the most leading IT companies in Kazakhstan. Working on kolesa.kz,  krisha.kz, market.kz. Gained experience at Agile, Phalcon Framework, team work, code review.  Working with JIRA, Stash. Gained knowledge on how to wrote self-documenting, clean and understandable code.  Developing a new API on GraphQL for Krisha.kz  Fixing bugs on market.kz  Adding features for krisha.kz, market.kz  Writing auto-tests Intern Back-end Developer ChocoTravel November 2016 to February 2017 ChocoFamily Holding (ChocoTravel)  4-month internship in a skilled team with strong professional background. Working on a website  chocotravel.com, a service that helps people to buy tickets for airplanes. Gained an experience of working in an IT company by SCRUM methodology, experienced at Git Workflow, web development and deploying code to production.  Movement of the whole project on Kohana framework from PHP5.3 to PHP5.6. Changing the drivers for MySQLi.  Fixing some bugs on production and on admin part of the website.  Adding some mini-features to the website(like dynamic timer while booking ticket, etc.)  Participating at code review Web Developer owlstudio.kz December 2015 to October 2016 Freelancing with a mini-team of 4-5 people at owlstudio.kz  Working with clients and users, developing web sites for their businesses and making a technical  task according to their requirements.  Full development of a website that delivers healthy food in Almaty - foodforfit.kz. Developing a  back-end and front-end of a website, making it adaptive for every device.  Developing a website aikids.kz for a beauty saloon for kids. Developing a simple landing page.  Working on eac.kz, a company that throws lottery draws for people. Developing a back-end on  YII2 framework. May Math and Physics Trainer "Euclid" Educational Center September 2015 to 2016 Euclid" Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Kazakh-British Technical University August 2014 to June 2018 maths and computer science Nazarbayev Intellectual School Physics-Maths 2010 to 2014 Skills DATA ANALYSIS (Less than 1 year), ALGORITHMS (Less than 1 year), Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Less than 1 year), Jquery, Java (2 years), React, Angular Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/camilaomarova Additional Information Skills    Backend Development  Java (Spring Boot, Struts 2 frameworks), PHP (Laravel/YII2/Phalcon frameworks),  Object-Oriented Programming, Algorithms & Data Structures, Dependency  Injection    Project Management  Agile, Scrum, Leadership Skills  DevOps Skills  Docker, nginx, apache2, installing web-servers, configuring git flow, Amazon  AWS(ECS, EC2 deployment)    Data Analysis and Manipulation  MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Redis    Frontend Development Skills  JavaScript, JQuery, ReactJS, AngularJS, CSS3, HTML5, BackBoneJS