Web and Mobile Application Developer, Technical Writer <span class="hl">Web</span> and Mobile Application <span class="hl">Developer</span>, Technical Writer Mobile and Web Application Developer and Technical Writer Austin, TX Accomplished Mobile and Web Application Developer (across various  platforms) and Technical Writer/Analyst with twenty years of experience  working in a variety of industries. Experienced in working on high energy,  cross-functional teams to develop new and exciting products and solutions  from idea to launch. I'm interested in a role that challenges me and affords  me the opportunity to grow as a professional and expand my knowledge of  new and emerging technologies. Note: I am only open to positions that are remote, or primarily remote, at this time. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web and Mobile Application Developer, Technical Writer Independent Contractor July 2009 to Present • Designed and developed multiple iOS apps using Swift, SpriteKit, Xcode, Photoshop, and Illustrator. Also incorporated third party frameworks.  • Developed an app with Kotlin in Android Studio to help students study for the AP World History exam.  • Designed, developed and maintained online training programs and websites using PHP, MYSQL, HTML/CSS, and JavaScript.  • Wrote User Manuals and other help materials and collaborated in writing and editing content for online training programs.   • Storyboard, design, and develop Flash marketing demos.  • Perform team-lead responsibilities by managing workflow to other members of the team (including off-shore resources). Flex Developer Kaiser Permanente - Los Angeles, CA January 2008 to February 2009 • Worked with the marketing and sales department to prototype, design, and develop a new rate-quote reporting system using Adobe Flex, Flash, and ActionScript.  • Developed and designed a web application using Adobe Flex that enabled Account Managers to manage meeting events with their customers. The application connected to SalesForce APIs and data. Web Developer RSI - Austin, TX 2006 to 2007 • Worked with representatives from the Texas State Board of Public Accountancy to prototype, design, and develop a new website for the department.  • Developed new inventory and invoicing web application using Adobe Flex, PHP, and MYSQL.  • Collaborated with management to redesign company website. Media Coordinator, Independent Contractor Elsevier 2005 to 2006 • Developed and maintained interactive elearning modules using Flash, Dreamweaver, ActionScript, CSS, JavaScript, XML, and several graphics, video, and audio editing programs. The modules included exercises, graphics, animations, narrations, and videos.  • Developed and maintained Flash templates and components.  • Coordinated a team of media developers working remotely. Ensured and maintained consistent quality across several projects and also wrote and maintained internal documentation.  • Worked closely with third party vendors to develop requirements and coordinate workflow.  • Modified and maintained Microsoft Word templates used by instructional designers. Web Developer Eagan Mcallister & Associates - Charleston, SC 2005 to 2005 Supported the US Marines with the following tasks:  • Developed and maintained interactive computer based training and web-based training using XML, CSS, Flash, ActionScript, Dreamweaver, Captivate, and several graphics programs.  • Developed and maintained web applications and web sites using MYSQL, Coldfusion, CSS, and HTML.  • Wrote technical documentation, including procedures, requirement documents, and web content. Web Developer University of Houston at Clear Lake - Houston, TX 2004 to 2004 Designed, developed, and maintained online and interactive courses  using Flash, Dreamweaver, XHTML, XML, CSS, ASP, and ActionScript.  • Worked with professors and other subject matter experts to write  course material.  • Developed computer based training, support websites, and other  instructional and university-related materials for students and university employees.  • Led efforts within the University of Houston at Clear Lake to implement  a lifecycle process for new software applications, products, and online  courses.  • Performed quality assurance (QA) on Web courses and training material  and performed usability testing on software applications. Technical Editor/ Developer RWD Technologies, Inc - Houston, TX 2002 to 2004 • Developed e-Learning training sites using Flash, Dreamweaver, HTML, XML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Developed and maintained Microsoft Word (MS) templates with macros to create a more efficient document building process. The macros included over 1000 lines of VBA code within several modules and forms. Customized the templates and macros for multiple clients.  • Wrote and edited help documentation, procedures, and process descriptions for petrochemical clients.  • Developed internal marketing database. Technical Writer/ Web Developer Morningstar, Inc - Chicago, IL 1999 to 2001 • Designed, developed, and maintained an intranet information site using Dreamweaver, HTML, XHTML, CSS, XML, XSL, SQL, ASP, JavaScript, and VBScript.  • Wrote and edited all documentation for the intranet site. The documentation included data flow documentation and diagrams, web- site monitoring and troubleshooting procedures, training materials, and web-server maintenance and setup procedures.  • Interviewed programmers, project managers, and other subject matter experts to research and gather information throughout the development life cycle.  • Created schedule of automated procedures written with SilkTest script and wrote corresponding documentation and troubleshooting procedures to test software and hardware.  • Assisted with the design, documentation, and implementation of a company-wide ticket system (PVCS Tracker) to track and resolve web-site problems. Technical Writer Reed & Associates, Ltd 1998 to 1999 Wrote service manuals; installation, user, and system administrator  guides; training materials; and lockout/tagout procedures to satisfy  OSHA requirements.  • Developed troubleshooting and process flowcharts, illustrated parts  lists, and wiring diagrams.  • Designed and developed an asset inventory database for a leading  healthcare manufacturer. Education University of Houston at Clear Lake - Houston, TX September 2002 Bachelor of Arts in English Northern Illinois University - DeKalb, IL May 1998 Bachelor of Science in Social Sciences Illinois State University - Normal, IL May 1993 Skills Android (1 year), Apache (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Flash (10+ years), Html (10+ years), Illustrator. (3 years), Javascript. (10+ years), MYSQL (10+ years), Photoshop (5 years), Php (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), Visual Studio Code (2 years), Xcode (3 years), XML (10+ years), Technical Writing (10+ years), Swift (3 years), Kotlin (1 year) Links https://www.ekmstudios.com Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages: Swift (3), Server-Side Swift with Vapor (1), Kotlin(1), HTML/CSS  (10+), JavaScript (10+), SQL (10+), PHP (10+), Vue.js (1)  Databases: MYSQL (10+)  Development Software: Xcode (3), Android Studio (1), Photoshop (5),  Illustrator (3), Adobe Audition (3), Adobe Flash/Animate (10), Visual Studio  Code (2)  Web Server: Apache (10+)  Platforms: Mac OSX (7), Windows (10+)