Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - Johnson & Johnsons Chicago, IL ? Full stack developer, design and code on both UI and server side;  ? Passionate about building stylish web and mobile applications;  ? Very hands-on, always learning and following the latest UI/UX design trend;  ? Build applications in a "pixel perfect" way;  ? Proven strong capability in troubleshooting and problem solving;  ? Energetic, self motivated and very good communication skills. Work Experience Web Developer Johnson & Johnsons - San Francisco, CA August 2018 to Present Babycenter.com: Worked on the web application's Tomcat 9 upgrade and image lazy loading with JSP, Javascript;    Technologies Used: Javascript, React.js, PWA, CSS3, JSP, Java, Spring, Hibernate, Sumo Query, Git, Tomcat, Mysql, InteliJ, SourceTree. Web Developer Ideo - San Francisco, CA June 2018 to August 2018 Worked on the "creative dashboard", an intelligent tool used by the corporate management to investigate and improve the performance of their companies.    Refined the dashboard in Chinese version using Ruby, HTML, CSS3;    Technologies Used: Ruby on Rails, Javascript, Jquery, HTML5, CSS3 Web / Mobile Web Developer Chegg - Santa Clara, CA October 2017 to December 2017 chegg.com: An e-commerce web/mobile app helps the students to recycle their used textbooks and also find tutors.    Added "Winter Rush" feature on both their web and mobile hybrid app for their "Winter Rush" project with php, Javascript.    Technologies Used: Php, Jquery, HTML5, CSS3, Eggshell, Twig template, backbone.js, Git; Hybrid Mobile App Developer Virtusa August 2016 to December 2016 remote    PenFed: A hybrid mobile app for bank users to manage their portfolios.    Prototyped the mobile hybrid application using adobe AEM and Ionic;    Technologies Used: Javascript, Ionic.js, Adobe AEM, PhoneGap, Java Sling, HTML5, CSS3 Web /Mobile Developer Revive - San Francisco, CA March 2016 to September 2016 Designed and built a full web marketing tool to help the fitness trainers and seekers. Allow them to search and match each other based on Geo locations and interests, Used IP messaging, sendgrid emails, Twilio API and postGIS. Built the server side with node.js and postgres.    Used Materialize framework to build a responsive site for both web and mobile    Technologies Used: Android, Objective-C, Node.js, Angular, Postgres, PostGIS, Mapbox.js, Layer.js, SendGrid, Twilio, Heroku Platform, Google Cloud Platform, Express.js, HTML5, Materialize CSS, Sass, Jquery, Android, Swift, Web / Native Mobile Developer Visa Innovation Lab - San Francisco, CA May 2015 to February 2016 Built native mobile and web apps for Visa's futuristic payment devices. Used Bluemix Cloud and heroku on the server side.    Android Apps:  ? P2P: smartphone user can pay each other by tapping their phone contact, also able to locate the nearby contacts through the phone's Bluetooth LE;  ? Rewards: a tool to track visitors' Reward Points during the Visa experience journey;  ? Next Gen ATM: User can tap the smartphone to find the nearby ATM machines and retrieve cash without physically touching the ATM machine;    Web apps:    ? P2P Wall: built and designed a web tool to demo the server side transaction through Web Sockets, used D3.js, Jquery, CSS3;  ? Superbowl Admin: Built an admin portal to manage the Visa events. Using Angular.JS for the UI side and Node.js for the server side.    Technologies Used: Angular.js, D3.js, Jquery, Node.js, Android, Bluemix, Bluetooth BLE, Express.js, Web Sockets, HTML5, CSS3, Git Hybrid Mobile App Developer LG Silicon Valley Lab - Santa Clara, CA January 2015 to May 2015 A4: LG is producing a new state of art digital art frame for displaying paintings and photos through AMS cloud. The mobile web application is used to control the digital art frame.    Built cordova plugins to enable the smartphone communicating with A4 device through bluetooth and BLE (Bluetooth Low Energy). This turns the smartphone into a remote control for the BLE enabled devices.    Technologies Used: Sencha Touch, Javascript, CSS3, HTML5, Bluetooth GATT, Cordova. Hybrid & Native Mobile Developer Sephora - San Francisco, CA July 2014 to November 2014 Color-IQ: An IOS mobile hybrid application for skin tone detecting and cosmetic products matching  Color-IQ is Sephora's in store IPad application used to detect customers' facial tones and provides matching cosmetic products. Build both ios native and hybrid application with Objective C, Javascript and HTML5. Used Node.js on the server side to process the data.    Technologies Used: Objective C, JavaScript, HTML5, Jquery, Signal.js, Handlebar.js, Node.js, Cordova, Omniture, Git. Hybrid Mobile App Developer Cisco - San Jose, CA February 2014 to July 2014 Cisco Packet Tracer Mobile: A mobile web application for Cisco's packet tracer.    Packet tracer is a learning tool used by students to learn Cisco networks. It is built with Sencha Touch, Android and C++.    Technologies Used: Sencha Touch 2.3, Android, HTML5, CSS3, QT, Git. Hybrid Mobile / Web Developer TriNet - San Leandro, CA October 2012 to February 2014 HR Passport: A hybrid mobile app used by employees and managers to keep track of their time off requests, payroll and benefits etc. Designed and built the whole app from scratch and deployed to both Android and Apple studio.    ? Created data processing API using rest services;  ? Integrated with phoneGap/Cordova plugins;  ? upgraded to Sencha 2.3    Payroll Preview: A web tool used by management to track employees' payroll.    Coded benefits and payroll summary with ExtJS 4.2.    Technologies Used: Sencha Touch 2.1, 2.3. Cordova, EXTJS 4.2, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, Java, Rest Service, Spring, Git. Web Developer Accenture Tech Lab - San Jose, CA August 2012 to October 2012 Continuity of Care: A web application used to monitor remote patients.    Build a dashboard to display health data charts with Jquery, D3.js, HTML5 and Ruby on Rails.    Technologies Used: Ruby on Rails (Rails 3), D3.js, Jquery, SVG, , HTML5, CSS3 Hybrid Mobile App Developer Revel Touch - Los Altos, CA May 2012 to July 2012 Lucky Magazine: Mobile shopping application on IPad.    Prototyped the Lucky store online shopping cart for multiple vendors with Sencha Touch.    Technologies Used: Sencha Touch 2, Jquery, HTML5, Sass, CSS3 Hybrid Mobile App Developer Model Metrics - Chicago, IL December 2011 to March 2012 ToyotaFriend: Mobile Social network application for automaker Toyota, car owners can communicate with each other and get services notifications from the car dealers.    This Iphone/Android hybrid application is built with Sencha Touch, CSS3 and Phonegap/Cordova.    Technologies Used: Sencha Touch, PhoneGap, HTML5, SASS, CSS3, Git, Photoshop; Web Developer Credit Suisse - New York, NY October 2011 to December 2011 CSPlus: Web based platform for financial news, analysis and market data.    Maintenance and enhancements with ExtJS and Java.    Technologies Used: ExtJs, J2EE, Spring, Struts2, Hibernate, CSS3, JSON, WebLogic(9.2). Hybrid Mobile App Developer Morgan Stanley Smith Barney - New York, NY May 2011 to October 2011 3D Mobile: A hybrid Mobile IPAD app used by the financial analysts. It allows them to manage their clients' portfolio, such as balances, positions and activities.    Implemented searching features for the clients' investments and other portfolios. Sencha Touch and Rest APIs are both used;    Technologies Used: Sencha Touch, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, Ruby, Sass, Rest API, SVN, Mercury, Tortoise. Web Developer Bank of America - New York, NY August 2010 to April 2011 Credit Studio: A Web tool for credit risk analysis in BOA's risk and liquidation department.    Implemented document generation tools with Java 5, ExtJs, Struts and Sybase. The tool generates documents and analysts can manage the full life cycle of the documents.    ExtJs Framework is sed for this tool. Struts framework and Ibatis ORM are also used for the server side data processing.    Technologies Used: Java 5, Struts, ExtJs, JQuery, HTML, CSS, Sybase, Ibatis, CVS, SVN, Checkstyle. Software Developer Scivantage - Jersey City, NJ January 2010 to July 2010 Maxit: A tax tool used by the financial institutions to calculate tax of stock transactions and corporate actions.    ? Daily production support, database schema creation, update, deployment and provision.  ? Added data filters for the client data pre-processing.  ? Customized the application for different clients, added new features based on client's request.    Technologies Used: Java, Spring, Ruby on Rails, XML, Bash Shell, PL/SQL, Weblogic, Oracle, UNIX, CVS Web Developer Verizon Business - Piscataway, NJ December 2008 to May 2009 GCS: A web based platform used by the Verizon business group to keep track and manage their services.    ? Implemented monthly report downloading with Javascript,, XSLT, XML;  ? Developed new admin page with Ruby on Rails;  ? Designed and created database tables, write SQL-Server stored procedures;  ? Daily production support, mainly used Java, XML, XSLT, XPATH, data island.    Technologies Used: Ruby on Rails, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, XML, XSLT, data island, SQL Server Stored Procedures, CVS, SQL Server Management Studio. Web Developer United Media - New York, NY January 2008 to September 2008 Comics.com/Dilbert.com/Peanuts.com: websites hosting popular cartoons.    ? Development on www.comics.com;  ? Daily production support and maintenance using HTML, CSS, JavaScript;  ? Create new cartoon artist profiles, new templates for newspapers with Ruby on Rails, JavaScript, CSS, HTML.    Technologies Used: Ruby on Rails, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, CVS, Github, Resin, Mongrel, MySQL. Web Developer Lehman Brothers - Jersey City, NJ April 2006 to August 2007 PTM: Prime Brokerage Trade Management System, a web based application for tracking and managing hedge fund trades from different sources. It also provides administration tools.    ? Added new fixed income product to the system utilizing Struts, EJB, Web Service, Javascript, Ajax and Stored procedures;  ? Developed client account management and administration tools with Struts, JSP, Web Service, Ajax;  ? Integrated PTM application with Lehman live portal web site;  ? Maintenance, troubleshooting & production support.  Technologies Used: Java, J2EE, JMS, Web Service, EJB, JSP, Servlet, Struts, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, SQL, Ant, Weblogic Server, Tibco, CVS, Sybase. Web Developer Merrill Lynch - Jersey City, NJ August 2004 to February 2006 JUNO: Fixed income trading system, a web based bond trading platform for Merrill users to trade variety type of bonds.    ? Developed municipal, corporate bond trade applications with JSP, XML, XSLT, Web Service, Stored Procedures, JavaScript;  ? Built PDF charting report for analysis with Java, XSLT, XML;  ? Troubleshooting, maintenance and production support.  Technologies Used: Java, J2EE, Web Services, XML, XSLT, JSP, Servlet, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, AJAX, SQL, Ant, JSF, Jfreechart, Axis, Apache Web Server, Tomcat, Tibco, WebLogic Server, VSS, SQL Server. Web Developer Dow Jones - Township of South Brunswick, NJ March 2004 to August 2004 Dow Jones Newsplus: Electronic online news publishing service which provides instant worldwide financial news.    ? Utilize the Struts and hibernate to create a news publishing Editor tool;  ? Write scripts to optimize web sites, compress the style sheet, HTML, JSP and image files with Ksh;  ? Built tools to manage the site templates and site customization with Struts;  ? Configured Apache Web Server, using Apache modules, write deployment files with Ant.  Technologies Used: Java, JSP, Servlets, Struts, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Hibernate, XML, XSLT, SQL, Ksh, Ant, Apache Web Server, Websphere Server, Oracle. Web Developer ABN/AMRO - Jersey City, NJ January 2003 to December 2003 GTT: Global Trade Finance System, a web based intranet application used by the bank to manage their business loans. they can create, modify, settle and close loans with this platform.    ? Developed the loan related processors;  ? Developed data management component, such as payment code, fee structure;  ? Prototyped the whole application, setup and configure the struts framework;  Technologies used: J2EE, WSAD(5.0), Struts, JSP, EJB, XML, HTML, JavaScript, Toad, Win CVS, Oracle, JMS, MS Frontpage, Photoshop Education Bachelor's