Caregiver Caregiver Web Developer 2 Oxnard, CA Organized and detail oriented seeking the IT  Support position where my strong work ethic will best be  utilized.    ? 10+ years in leadership and consulting   ? Certified Computer Security + CompTia  ? Certified Microsoft Server Admin 2008  ? Customer Service Certified   ? Certified Microsoft Professional  ? Professional and friendly demeanor   ? Cisco Systems Trained  ? Project Management Experience   ? Novell Network Netware  ? Excellent communication skills and   ? Certified Advanced Microsoft Office   ? Proficient in development of military   ? Linux Administration  ? Python  ? Django  ? Creative in developing Web and Mobile apps (IOS Android) Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Caregiver Self - Oxnard, CA July 2010 to Present Maintain records for prescriptions, condition, progress to report to primary care physician and/or specialists.  ? Maintain records for appointments and follow procedures, lab work and outpatient services  ? Manage and plan meals for patients and medications  ? Care of patient by washing and ironing laundry, cleaning, or assisting with their personal care  ? Interviews each caregiver with parents and evaluates their performance  ? Manage several caregivers and hours and tasks to ensure continuous care is achieved. Web Developer 2 CACI International Inc - Oxnard, CA July 2012 to October 2013 ?  Designed, and deployed asp.net 4.0 executive dashboard system for client using visual  studio 2010, asp.net C# 4.0 on IIS7 Server 2008 R2, with Jquery, Simile and MSChart  components  ? Provided website development services to the government Owner -Technical Fornoles Computer Services - Lancaster, CA January 2005 to April 2009 ? implemented a secured WPA-Encrypted Wireless Network for local healthcare business  ? Provided PDF and various training applications to nurses for state board exams  ? Installed State Board training software, provided support of NCLEX tutorials and resolved  technical issues with website connection Web Developer/Database Designer Wyle Labs - Edwards AFB, CA October 2004 to January 2005 ? Repaired training system prior to system upgrades  ? Maintained AirBorne Laser Department Intranet site  ? Performed research for upgrades Web Developer/Database Designer Tybrin Corp - Edwards AFB, CA May 2002 to October 2004 ? Created and designed procedures to convert data store from Oracle 8.0 to SQL Server 2000  ? Designed, developed, deployed Software application with SQL Server 2000 data store  ? Created test plans, and manuals for new application  ? Provided website and database services to win Air Force contract Education Compton security + in Welch Way Leadership Training Occupational Skills Training Program - Oxnard, CA April 2011 to May 2014 Bachelor's in Computer Science California State Northridge - Oxnard, CA September 1983 to August 1988 Skills Care Giver, Personal Care, Home Health, Direct Care, Networking, ERP Systems, DNS, Azure, Ms professional (5 years) Links http://www.fornolesdevelopment.com http://www.linkedin.com/in/danfornoles Certifications/Licenses CPR/First Aid CPR First Aid driver's license