Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - Liberty Mutual Peabody, MA Developer and designer with over 14 years on the job. Expert front-end skills (CSS, HTML, JS) with full stack experience developing web applications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Liberty Mutual 2015 to Present My work in a Direct Sales team has helped to develop next-generation insurance quoting applications. I write server and client code using a blend of modern technology. I have a proven track record of quality control, and advanced problem solving and bug bashing skills.    Key job functions:    • Design and develop new apps and components for use in large-scale production software.  • Manage delivery pipelines.  • Author and refine documentation.  • Testing, debugging and support. Freelance 2007 to Present Worked as a full-time freelance contractor designing websites, content, and print. I am passionate about creating amazing designs and I use this to create beautiful graphics and websites.    Key job functions:    • Designed websites, emails, and print.  • Maintained dozens of real estate and property websites.  • Designed and managed websites and data for a medical diagnostics company.  • Built dozens of pages and sites for software companies including Analog Devices, Clear Water Science, Swimfish, ResCare, and more. Web UI Engineer EBSCO Industries 2011 to 2015 As a Web UI Engineer I worked in a fast-paced corporate environment writing and supporting the front-end of several major web applications serving published content to libraries, academic universities, corporations, and institutions around the globe.    Key job functions:    • Worked with a large team of managers, architects, and developers to build and maintain web applications (html, css/sass, javascript, git, npm, node).  • Built and maintained assets and asset libraries.  • Refined tools and workflow processes.  • Organized teams and projects.  • Fixed bugs and updated legacy software. Web Developer, Graphic Designer Promosis 2010 to 2011 Designed landing pages and entry forms for online contests, developing websites, and designing graphic art for print.    Key job functions:    • Created websites and emails.  • Designed ads and contests pieces.  • Managed and optimized assets. Marketing Associate Meredith & Grew 2006 to 2007 Webmaster and designer for large scale real estate firm located in downtown Boston. The firm specialized in marketing office space in many of Boston's iconic high rise buildings.    Key job functions:    • Designed websites, emails, and printed brochures.  • Maintained all property websites and databases.  • Managed the company and clients design assets. Web Designer Clear Channel Communications 2004 to 2006 Designed and managed dozens of FM radio station websites, and created graphics for contests and events.    Key job functions:    • Designed websites, emails, and printed brochures.  • Designed graphics for station promotion including: client advertising, billboards, signs, t-shirts, stickers, promo items, and band art.  • Produced content for sales and advertising.  • Managed contests and databases. Education Bachelor of Arts in Advanced Web Design Salem State University Skills animation (10+ years), application development (10+ years), css (10+ years), html (10+ years), javascript (6 years), Wordpress, PHP, HTML5, Front End Additional Information Skills Overview:    • Over 14 years of professional experience with Web Development and Design  • Expert communication skills and ability to collaborate with team members  • Expert level skills with HTML, CSS, Sass, javascript, animation, and design software  • Expert with Git version control and Github  • Experience with React, Angular, Node, jQuery and more  • Experience with UNIX command-line and developer tools  • Experience working within corporate agile teams  • Experience with native application development (Python, Java, C#, Swift)  • Ensures compliance with WCAG accessibility best practices  • Experience supporting multiple languages and design for internationalization