Front End Web Developer Front End <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Web Developer Portland, OR I am a professional front end web developer seeking a position where I can contribute to a collaborative development process. I bring confidence, enthusiasm, a positive attitude, and a goal oriented perspective to my work. I love to learn and I love working in an industry that is constantly improving and evolving. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Web Developer BrokerageBox - Portland, OR April 2019 to Present I am the front end developer for the BrokerageBox web application. I build the user interface using Vue, integrating with our Laravel backend and API endpoints, to deliver transaction and resource management to Realtors. Front End Web Developer THM - Portland, OR July 2016 to July 2018 I began in the fulfillment department building Google Adwords campaigns for marketing clients. I then moved into development where I created the website templates for a custom website builder, as well as a client dashboard. I worked extensively with Vue.js as a front end framework connecting to several API endpoints from our Lumen powered backend. Front End Web Developer Yurz, Inc - Beaverton, OR May 2012 to July 2016 My initial duties were to complete website updates for our WordPress clients. I then moved onto the development team where my main role was to develop the front end of all internal and client-facing websites/ web applications. I worked primarily with Laravel and Ember. Self Employed Self Employed - Portland, OR June 2008 to May 2012 As a freelance web developer and graphic designer, I worked with a handful of small businesses and individuals to meet their branding and online promotion needs including logo design, business card design, website design, website development, online advertising, and traffic reporting. Education Graphic Design Lane Community College 2008 to 2010 Skills HTML (8 years), CSS (8 years), Javascript (4 years), Git (4 years), Vue.js (Less than 1 year), React.js (Less than 1 year), Bootstrap (4 years), Front End, UI, Jquery, Front-End, User Interface, HTML5, CSS3 Links https://www.thatjeannie.me https://www.linkedin.com/in/jeanniestevenson