IT Consultant IT Consultant Experienced IT Professional with a Strong Background in Development & Design Columbia City, IN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Consultant Digimax Communications - Columbia City, IN August 2010 to Present Provide full range IT and Network consulting to commercial, residential and industrial clients.    I specialize in creating fully custom and purpose built systems tailored exclusively for the needs of an individual client. Maintain a vast knowledge of current and in development technologies as to be able to implement the best possible solution for the problem or situation presented long before other vendors have a chance to integrate them into their offerings.    I have worked directly with, am able to provide support for, and can often times optimize nearly any system, network or technical hardware presented. Web Designer/ Developer Independant Consulting - Columbia City, IN June 1999 to August 2010 Worked as a 1099 Independent Web and Graphics developer. I specialized in creating dynamic database driven web applications for a wide variety of clients.    I not only provided design and development services, but also direct server and database administration services. Education High school or equivalent Skills SQL, Security, Manged Switches of All Vendors (Not Just Cisco), Networking Copper and Fiber, Linux Server & Services Adminstraion (10+ years), Microsoft Server Administration, HTML, CSS, Javascript, PHP Programming, Digital Telephone Systems Adminstraion and Deployment, Technical Support, Networking, Vmware, Windows, Active Directory, Technical Support, Networking, Windows, Windows 7, Customer Service, Microsoft Office, VirtualBox OSE (5 years), Javascript Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/kpsuldumfw4es1ac Project Management Skills: Time Management — Highly Proficient August 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/z5n32vyv1rxhs-ok Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.