Application Developer Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Application Developer Mayfield Hts, OH My experience spans almost 15 years of excellence in computer related technologies. My career has given me experience and responsibilities ranging from team member to team leader. I have proven many times over to be a valued, dependable and essential member of an organization.  My strengths lay in my willingness to take on any task presented to me. I am malleable, resourceful, and capable of learning and adapting quickly to most any environment or duty.  As this resume will show by the variety of duties that I have performed with exemplary skill over the past 15 years, I can do anything.  Key Skill    Program Languages.  PHP5, 7, HTML5, CSS/3, Bootstrap 3, JavaScript, Jquery, Ajax, Mootools, C#, ASP.net, VB.net, Angular, VBScript, COBOL, SQL Server, MySql, PostgreSQL    CMS Environments.  Wordpress, Joomla, Drupal, Sitecore. . Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application Developer Technifab Inc - Avon, OH September 2016 to October 2017 Utilizing PHP, MySQL, JavaScript and JQWidgets, I created web applications use to monitor production and resources.  I created an intranet home page that marrying many previously independent applications and including real-time updates and quality alerts. Along with the home page, I created central interface to allow updating content and adjusting employee's access to specific web apps based on their LDAP profile. I maintained applications and added new functionality as needed.  I used VB.net to program the company label maker used for print bar codes. Coding was need to automate counts and adjust the print area.  Among other projects I influenced management to begin developing in Angular and taking advantage of GIT. Developer II Bravo Wellness - Cleveland, OH March 2014 to February 2016 Develop and maintain web site applications used for customer participants and in-house admin portals. Develop both backend functionality with PHP and fully responsive frontend functionality.  Create and maintain database tables and queries.  Manage project development. Consult on spec designs and estimate time to complete the project.  Work with 3rd party vendors to establish connectivity for SSO via SAML. Lead Developer Pantek Incorporated - Independence, OH June 2012 to January 2014 Develop and customize web sites and web based applications for internal and external clients.  Create and edit custom reports from the WHMCS billing software and the company database. Migrate software to new servers and upgrade PHP versions.  Migrate standard HTML sites to WordPress.  Create and edit simple Flash files.  Customize Smarty Template Engine functions.  Add hooks to WHMCS billing software.  Integrate functionality between multiple servers and software programs. For example, incorporating Pinnacle Cart and WHMCS data into Pantek's intranet to track sales, engineer time and ticket tracking. Web Developer Fathom - Valley View, OH August 2011 to April 2012 Develop and customize web sites and web based applications for internal and external clients.  This job included projects such as developing the tools for AB Testing application, a program request system and several automated email notification applications. Word Press, Site Core and other CMS tools were used to edit and customize existing sites.  Other tools used include Dreamweaver and PHP MyAdmin.  Some external clients include, Career Education Corporation, Morris Real Estate Marketing Group, Elyria Manufacturing Corp (EMC), Basement Waterproofing Pro basementwaterproofingpro.com, Container and Pooling Solutions, Inc. (CAPS), Foundations foundations.com, Master Spring and Wire Form Co. masterspring.com  Flexan Corporation (troubleshooting) flexan.com, and Teachscape teachscapesolutions.com. Senior Web Developer Smiley Classifieds LLC - Mayfield Heights, OH October 2009 to 2011 Used PHP5, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery and MySQL to design and build an advertisement management website where users can manage their accounts and place and edit their ads.  Constructed a site management area where administrators can edit customer ads, manage accounts, and reset customer and employee passwords, as well as add, remove and edit employees.  Built store revenue tracking functions based on criteria such as user rights and permissions, employee production and benefits, and information about banner advertisements.  Designed and built both a public company directory and an internal directory.  Provided the ability to load data into the store database using CSV files. Programmer Analyst 1 Relay Health/McKesson Corporation - Highland Heights, OH September 2000 to June 2009 Used the File Driven Edits Rules Engine in the Claim Track product to reduce the turnaround time of change to programs requests by 20 hours per week.  Increased production of changes to programs requests in the Claim Track product using COBOL.  Provided web development services for the office intranet using ASP, VB Script, and JavaScript MS SQL2000 Server, Dreamweaver, Flash and Action Scripts.  Increased and maintained the functionality of the File Driven Edits Rules Engine program using C#, COBOL, and MS SQL Server 2000. Consultant Blackmoorian Enterprises - Seville, OH July 1999 to May 2009 Set up desktop systems for a Cleveland area hospital.  Integrated and migrated local area network using Appletalk Token Ring and Ethernet topologies on Novell, Linux and Microsoft networks.  Installed and configured proprietary software.  Designed and built websites using Linux, Windows, Apache, and Windows IIS.  Developed and maintained MySQL and MS SQL Server 2000 databases. Education raffles Lakeland Community College - Kirtland, OH May 2010 to December 2010 Computer Science Lorain County Community College - Elyria, OH Skills HTML, Javascript, XML, Linux, Jquery