Lead Developer Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Drupal Developer Marietta, GA Heinz is a seasoned web professional with experience dating back to 1999. Since 2007, he has specialized in the Drupal content management framework. Proficient in both front-end and back-end development, his expertise is in PHP, MySQL, jQuery, Javascript, HTML5, and CSS3. Heinz excels at creating custom Drupal modules that implement new, custom functionality or tie into obscure API's. He also enjoys incorporating unique designs into custom Drupal themes. He enthusiastically welcomes any Drupal challenge.    In 1994, Heinz graduated Summa Cum Laude from the Georgia Institute of Technology with a Bachelor's in Electrical Engineering. In 1998, fueled by a passion for web technologies, he began the pursuit of a new career in the web development industry.    In 2005, Heinz co-founded the graphic design and web development firm, Simplex Creative Group. In 2007, he became the first employee of a now established Drupal development firm, Mediacurrent. In 2010, Heinz founded the web development firm, Element 31 Web Solutions, where he is currently developing and managing fully customized Drupal-based websites and applications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Developer StoreFrontier LLC - Woodstock, GA January 2015 to Present Lead developer and project lead on storefrontier.com, a highly customized site utilizing the Drupal content management framework. Founder and Lead Developer Element 31 LLC - Marietta, GA April 2010 to Present Developer of many highly customized Drupal websites for companies in a wide range of fields. Senior Web Developer Mediacurrent - Alpharetta, GA September 2007 to April 2010 Drupal specialist and first employee for this now well-established Drupal development firm. Education Certificate in Web Development Kennesaw State University - Kennesaw, GA June 2001 to January 2002 Bachelor's in Electrical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology-Main Campus - Atlanta, GA September 1990 to June 1994 Skills Drupal, PHP, MySQL, JQuery, HTML 5, CSS3, Photoshop, Illustrator, Javascript