Web Developer / IT Support Analyst <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> / IT Support Analyst Network Support Analyst / Web Developer Simi Valley, CA Hands-on network support, security, and web development computer professional with over 15 years of progressive industry experience incorporating:    • Work on security issues to include implementing SSL, maintaining CA certificates, implementing two-factor authentication, updating server backup strategy to follow a 3-2-1 backup strategy, backup G Suite data, and individual workstations to the cloud  • Using WordPress, HTML, CSS, and Bootstrap for web development and web programming to support companies' programming initiatives  • Set up users on Active Directory, grant users privileges  • Perform VPN client installations to support remote connectivity Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer / IT Support Analyst NorthStar Moving Company May 2015 to May 2015 • Identify, evaluate and lead the implementation of a new vendor-based backup solution, Acronis, that follows a 3-2-1 backup strategy while additionally backing up G Suite user data to the cloud. This solution provides the capability to fail over and run in the cloud in the event of a disaster.  • Lead the implementation of two factor authentication across the enterprise to strengthen security.  • Implement SSL on main websites and maintain CA certificates.  • Install and configure VPN on clients locally, and remotely using TeamViewer, so offsite users have the ability to securely connect to the ERP system.  • Help to configure and install cloud based backups for individual workstations using Google Backup and Restore.  • Provide support to the user base for the ERP system, all Google products, and all software used in the organization.  • Programmed Google scripts for Admin SDK API and Sheets API to organize users in preparation for streamlining email accounts. End result cut costs and increase efficiency.  • As Gmail Administrator, add users, edit profiles, and set access privileges in Gmail.  • Perform G Suite administration. This work included reducing email account overhead and reorganizing aliases into virtual emails to improve efficiencies and reduce cost.  • Create new users in the company's ERP system, Dr. Mover, setting access rights, user privileges and setting up user on domain controller to provide network access.  • Work on the redeployment of 300+ responsive emails using a combination of Bootstrap, HTML, and CSS that are sent out through the company's ERP system. The result was a significant improvement in emails' rendering across a wide variety of devices. Worked with a consultant to improve the written content of the emails as well which improved the organization's messaging and its image.  • Use Grunt and Gulp to automate compiling routines for email components before deployment.  • Documented the email redeployment process so future developers can more easily maintain the code, compile, and redeploy emails.  • Utilized Litmus for testing and to ensure emails rendered correctly across a multitude of devices.  • Add and edit pages on the company's main WordPress website, northstarmoving.com, using Bootstrap where required to keep content current.  • Add Microdata to web pages to nest metadata and improve SEO.  • Maintain, add and edit pages using Visual Composer, update Wordpress, WordPress plugins, and PHP for the company's franchising website, NorthStar Franchising.  • Led the implementation and customization of the company's first chat system on NorthStarMoving.com that resulted in increased sales lead generation and improved customer service. Web Developer Consultant Fanning & Associates, Inc January 2000 to May 2015 January 2013 - May 2015  • Developed websites and a social media marketing strategy for Familias First and CBC Education.  • Developed both websites using Adobe Dreamweaver.  • Implemented SSL for security.  • Used PHP to create a custom .pdf based electronic job application system that enabled candidates to complete applications remotely and electronically over a secure SSL link. This implementation eliminated a paper-based system and modernized the hiring process.  • Programmed a login using PHP and MySQL for employees to access a private page containing productivity tools.  • Used HTML and CSS to develop multilingual (Spanish/Chinese) versions of the companies' websites. Utilized Photoshop to edit and optimize images for the web.  • Established accounts on major social media platforms Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, and LinkedIn for the purposes of generating business and improving community outreach.  • Increased 'Likes' for both CBC Education and Familias First Facebook pages by using targeted content as well as Facebook advertising. Used Facebook's geography capability to target a subsection of cities in the greater Los Angeles area to target potential clients.  • Managed Google Analytics to identify the most effective keywords, determine the location of site visitors, monitor bounce rate, most popular pages and determine the average time users remained on a particular page. This data enabled managers to see what areas of the site engaged visitors the most. SWAKdesigns.com January 2013 to April 2013 Used PHP to develop an automated feed of Excel CSV file data into a MySQL database that organized SWAKdesigns.com inventory of over 1000 different items for export to Amazon.com. The project supported compliance with Amazon's standards and expedited the sale of the company's products on Amazon.    January 2012 - January 2013  • Developed a prototype proof of concept website using PHP and MySQL to allow for the anonymous monitoring of various types of data. Made extensive use of PHP and MySQL in the development of the site. Used PHP to organize data, populate, and query the database as needed. Participated both in the design as well as the development of the site.  • Maintained and administered a WordPress based website for a financial services company. Added modules as needed and modified and added pages as needed.    January 2000 - January 2010  • Provided HTML, CSS, PHP, and MySQL to companies on a contractual basis. Used Photoshop for image manipulation and editing where necessary.  • Created and administered a Joomla based personal interest website that consisted of adding modules  to create pages, add chat functionality and add subscribers. Education Master of Science in Information Security & Assurance NORWICH UNIVERSITY - Northfield, VT September 2020 B.A. in Media Studies LOYOLA MARYMOUNT UNIVERSITY - Los Angeles, CA Certificate PIERCE COLLEGE - Woodland Hills, CA Computer Science CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY NORTHRIDGE - Northridge, CA Skills Active Directory, Desktop Support, Tech Support