Sr. Software Engineer Sr. Software Engineer Sr. Software Engineer - Infor Inc Round Rock, TX ? 10+ years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Administration and Support of n-tire client-server applications under UNIX, Windows platforms.  ? Proficient in design, analysis using OOPS, Service Oriented Architecture, MVC, J2EE, UML and Design Patterns.  ? Web Development experience using Java, J2EE technologies, Servlets, JSP, EJB, Struts, Spring, XML, JDBC, Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, Oracle 9i/10g, SQL Server, MySQL, Weblogic 8x, Websphere 6x, Oracle 10x Application Server.  ? Experience in developing critical & responsive GUI/front-end components using Swing, Web 2.0, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS, JSP, JSTL, Custom tag library, AJAX.  ? Experience with XML technologies like XSD, XSL, XSLT, DTD, SAX, DOM.  ? Team Lead consisting of 4 members, Project planning, and mentored junior developers.  ? Technically supported release at production level, rotational on call support (24/7).  ? Good communication skills with ability to provide accurate time estimation to the managers and also discussing and verifying the requirement with the clients. Work Experience Sr. Software Engineer Infor Inc - Austin, TX June 2009 to Present Project: Engage POS  Infor Engage software is built on the strengths of the retail environment like personalization, associate expertise, and hands-on service - and making them omni-channel ready. Engage equips sales associates with relevant product, promo, inventory, order, and customer information while furnishing managers with performance data analytics, order management, and other back-office tools to optimize front-end operations.  Responsibilities:  ? Used Design Patterns like Factory Methods, Converters, Business Delegate, Adapters to implement business logic.  ? Used Spring 4.x framework to develop business logic, endpoints & implementation  ? Implemented authorization apis for eSocket, Point, Aurus payment plugins using PF4J framework  ? Used Hibernate ORM to provide a framework for mapping an object-oriented domain model to arts database  ? Implemented SDK commands to communicate with Pin Entry Device (PED) for payment interactions, signature capture  ? Implemented Omni Channel Hub & micro services on AWS cloud suite  ? Used Symmetric DS to sync store data with central database on the cloud  ? Used Liquibase library to record database changelog & data migration  ? Configured systematic offline store close procedure using JGroups  ? Part of team to successfully complete Sprints in time to enable solution delivery in time  ? Implemented customizations for customers post sale of Engage suite  ? Used GIT for branching & source control    Environment: Scrum, Java 1.8, Spring 4.x, YML, Tomcat 7, Log4j, Eclipse IDE, Windows, Linux, AWS, JGroups, Liquibase, PostgreSQL9x, Hibernate, Symmetric DS, Bamboo CI, Bit Bucket, GIT Sr. Application Developer Oracle Corporation - Austin, TX April 2008 to May 2009 Project: Internationalization I18N  Point of Sale (POS) Application is used for centralized management of Retail Stores globally. Responsibility includes development of POS suite, BackOffice, and CentralOffice applications. POS is standalone Java application while BackOffice (ORBO) and CentralOffice (ORCO) are webapps developed using Java SE 1.5 and enterprise J2EE technologies.    Responsibilities:  ? Modeling conceptual design using Use Cases, UML Class diagrams, Activity diagrams using Rational Rose.  ? Implemented POS Client GUI using Java Swing.  ? Implemented navigation of multiple swing screens using Tour Map framework.  ? Implemented Business Logic using Struts 1.0 for Transaction tracker, Store ops, Load Parameters, and User modules.  ? Implemented Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) for BO Employee and Customer registration to maintain state information.  ? Developed GUI interface of CO transaction tracker and Parameter loading using Web 2.0, JSP, XML, XSL-T, Java Script, CSS.  ? Developed Custom Tag Library to display and format localized text on JSP page from resource bundles.  ? Designed and implemented reusable CSS Classes, Identifiers, and Group elements.  ? Implemented PL/SQL, Stored Procedures and JDBC statements to load schema, sql, seed, test, qa, and mock data over Oracle 10g and DB2v8 database.  ? Used Oracle Application Server 10g on Windows stack, configured opmn.xml to deploy ORBO and ORCO web applications.  ? Used Star Team for version controlling, Log4j for message logging and ANT for deployment and build scripts.    Environment: UML, Agile, Java 1.5/1.6, J2EE, EJB, Struts 1.0, Swing, JSP, JS, JDBC, DHTML, XML, XSL-T, XSL, JSTL, CSS, AXIS 2, WSDL, Oracle Application Server 10g, Websphere 6, Log4j, JUnit, Selenium, Rational rose, Eclipse 3.4 IDE, ANT, Star Team, Windows XP, Redhat Linux, Oracle 10g, DB2v8 Application Developer Fed-Ex Services - Irving, TX February 2007 to March 2008 Project: FedEx Ship Manager (FSM) Nx-Gen  NxGen aims to develop FedEx home (www.fedex.com) website to provide rich client interface using AJAX and J2EE technologies. Responsibilities involved in developing Enterprise Java applications for Pickup, Drop-off, Complete Your Shipment, Thermal Printer, Shipment Confirmation modules.    Responsibilities:  ? Analyzed functional requirements based on Business needs.  ? Implemented AJAX to communicate with server for dynamically validating business rules on user input.  ? Develop the user interface using Struts 1.0 for Pickup, Drop-off, Complete Your Shipment, Thermal printer modules.  ? Involved in the design, and implementation of Server side Navigation Path, the backbone of NexGen application.  ? Implemented Enterprise Java Beans (EJB's) for maintaining state information and database operations.  ? Used Web Services like WSDL, SOAP to communicate with third party vendor to send package status update SMS to Client on their request.  ? Developed GUI interface for all the mentioned modules using DHTML, XSLT, JSP, CSS.  ? Modified JSON Simulator code to build Ajax response which maps object hierarchy.  ? Worked on cross browser compatibility issues (IE-6 and FF).  ? Implemented JavaScript to handle client side validations, mapping AJAX request/response object, dynamic show hide of HTML elements, Alerts and Errors.  ? Used Rational Clear Case for Version Controlling and tracking.  ? Supported production issues for Go Live of FedEx website for millions of customers.    Environment: Agile, AJAX, Java EE 1.4/1.5, EJB, Servlets, Struts Framework, Swing, JSP, DHTML, CSS, JDBC, Java Script, JSON, SAX parser, XML, XSD, Rational Rose, Rational Clear Case, BAE Weblogic 8.1, My Eclipse 3.1 IDE, Linux, and MS SQL Server 05. Web Developer Lamar University - Beaumont, TX January 2006 to December 2006 The Setzer Student Center (SSC) coordinates extracurricular activities, recreation and cultural development for students, faculty and staff of Lamar University. As part of an on-campus job, my responsibility was to design, develop and maintain SSC website.    Responsibilities:  ? Coordinated multi department requirement gathering and analysis.  ? Implemented online registration for Student Organizations, reservations for the facilities provided by SSC using J2EE technologies.  ? Developed interactive graphical user Interface using JSP, HTML, CSS.  ? Designing Database in MySQL, developed queries to interact with database.  ? Provided interface with JDBC for connecting database and java classes.  ? Used Java Script for client side validations before submitting the request to server.  ? Developed ANT script to build & deploy web archive (.war) to the Tomcat server  Environment: Java, J2EE, EJB, Servlets, JSP, HTML, CSS, JDBC, Java Classes, Java Script, Tomcat, Eclipse 3.0, ANT, Windows NT, MySQL server. Education M.S in Computer Science in Computer Science Lamar University August 2004 to December 2006 Computer Science Lamar University August 2004 to December 2006 B.E in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Mumbai University - Mumbai, Maharashtra August 1999 to July 2003 Skills Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jndi, Jsp, Rmi, Servlet, Struts, Database, Jdbc, Ms access, Sql server, Sql server 2000, Oracle, Sql, Application server, C++, Design patterns Additional Information Skills    Design Skills: Object Oriented Analysis Design (OOAD), Service Oriented Architecture, MVC, UML (Rational Rose, Visio), Use Cases, Activity diagrams, Design patterns  Languages: C, C++, Java  Java: Collection, Multithreading, RMI, Sockets, TCP/IP, UDP  Technologies: J2EE, Web2.0, Ajax, JSP, Servlet, EJB, Java Mail, JDBC, JNDI, Hibernate, Struts 1.0, Spring 4.x, JSON, JavaScript, Web Services (Axis 2, WSDL, SOAP), Liquibase  Middleware: Tomcat 7x, IBM Websphere 6x, Oracle Weblogic 8.x, Oracle Application Server 10g, Symmetric DS  XML/HTML: XML, XSL, XSLT, XSD, DTD, SAX, DOM, HTML, CSS  Source Control: Git, Rational Clear Case, Bit Bucket  Database: Postgre SQL 9x, Oracle 9i/10g, SQL Server 2000/05, IBM DB2v8, My SQL 5.1, MS Access