Fullstack Developer Fullstack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Fullstack Developer - Orases Consulting Corporation Frederick, MD Work Experience Fullstack Developer Orases Consulting Corporation September 2013 to Present • Responsible for front-end and secure back-end development using CakePHP, Prototype.js, jQuery, PhoneGap, CSS and HTML along with remediation and hardening of compromised WordPress sites.  • Performed front-end and back-end changes and fixes on Drupal 7 sites.  • Administer client websites on Linux virtual servers hosted on Amazon Web Services.  • Have performed as a lead and team developer on several successful client projects. Web Developer/Designer Virginia, Pennsylvania, US September 2003 to December 2017 and Washington D.C. metro area as well as clients worldwide using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, YUI, ExtJS, PHP, Joomla, WordPress and Drupal. Web Developer RxAlly April 2012 to August 2013 • Maintained and expanded the UI/UX and back-end code of the public facing website for the largest performance network of aligned community pharmacies in the country.  • Developed custom user authentication systems for member pharmacies.  • Maintained and supported a SharePoint installation for internal corporate use.  • Developed systems with JAVA/JSP to facilitate pharmacies in participating in national health programs aligned with the Department of Health and Human Services.  • Designed the UI/UX for and developed the back-end code for secure web based systems with PHP/ColdFusion and jQuery/JavaScript/CSS3 for internal data services and reporting. Web Developer Keya Inc April 2008 to April 2012 • Designed the UI/UX and developed a custom ColdFusion content management system for both the activities' external website as well as the activities' intranet.  • Designed the UI/UX and developed in ColdFusion/Java the USAMRAA Support Document Portal for guiding activity customers in the submission of acquisition support documents.  • Designed the UI/UX and developed a Visitor Sign-in Kiosk running on a WindowsCE thin-client.  • Maintained and performed upgrades to all activity Adobe ColdFusion servers.  • Performed migration of activity databases from Microsoft SQL Server 2000 to Microsoft SQL Server 2008. Web Developer DSA Technologies April 2007 to March 2008 Maintained the Jones & Stokes corporate intranet and public facing websites prior to their being acquired by ICF International. Web & Multimedia Designer University Enterprises July 2006 to May 2007 • Designed a website on the Joomla CMS for the presentation of the Safe Life Project.  • Designed and edited a DVD for presentation and delivery of the Safe Life Project an educational curriculum. Web Designer/ Developer Jones & Stokes September 2006 to April 2007 • Redesigned the UI/UX of the company intranet and external website from the ground up using the HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Migrated both company external website and intranet to the Joomla CMS on Linux servers.  • Developed custom modifications to the intranet CMS using PHP, MySQL and JavaScript.  • Designed email templates and web graphics for external website.  • Designed large format print materials in support of their trade show presence. Software Quality Assurance/Validation Engineer Intel Corporation September 1999 to January 2002 • Verified and resolved OEM/Vendor customer sightings involving multiple hardware, language and operating systems, including Windows, Linux and OS2 involving software regression and bug fix verification.  • Created and administered a ColdFusion based hardware checkout database for the Desktop Platforms Group Replication Lab  • Trained coops and new hires in the troubleshooting methodology used for OEM defect sightings. Network Administrator/ Web Developer United States Army January 1997 to January 1999 • Maintained a local area network (LAN) of over 900 users.  • Installed and maintained network servers and user desktop systems.  • Provided technical support and training to end-users.  • Developed and maintained the public website for the 544th Maintenance Battalion. Education Bachelor of Science in Graphic Design CSU - Sacramento, CA May 2005 Skills Amazon web services, Javascript, Json, Php, Subversion, AWS, Python Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: Specialist Additional Information I am an experienced professional with a broad array of technical skills. I have designed and developed many successful projects across the private and public sectors in a variety of capacities; from a multimedia designer to web developer. I am now successfully supporting web projects for a web development and marketing company where I am responsible for front-end and back-end development in an Agile development environment. I am currently looking to make a transition into cybersecurity having recently completed my Masters in Cybersecurity.    Technical Skills  PHP, ColdFusion, Java Server Pages (JSP), JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, jQuery, ExtJS, Prototype, YUI, HTML5, CSS3, UI/UX design & implementation, WordPress, Joomla, Drupal, SharePoint, Mura, CakePHP, Apache, Vim, Linux (LAMP stack), Amazon Web Services, Subversion, MySQL, MSSQL, WCAG/508 Compliance, Wireframes, Storyboarding, Requirements gathering, Cyber Exploitation detection and Mitigation (dirb, Nmap, Wpscan, Metasploit, MSFVenom), Digital Forensics (FTK Imager, FTK), Intrusion detection and prevention (Wireshark, Snort), Key Management Systems, Risk Management Cost Benefit Analysis, FISMA.