Sr. Lead Drupal Developer Sr. Lead Drupal <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Lead Drupal Developer - Super Micro Computer, Inc A challenging position that will effectively capitalize on acquired expertise and experience as a PHP/Drupal Developer.    ? More than 18 years of extended experience as a Web Developer/PHP Developer/Drupal Developer/ Web Designer/Engineer.  ? Extensive knowledge of modern Web techniques, including interface development, client-side and server-side programming, and dynamic content management.  ? Expertise in troubleshooting, calibrating, and building of hardware systems, software applications, fixtures and network systems. Highly experienced working in multiple Web programming languages/tools/technologies such as ASP, ASP.NET, HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, AJAX, VBScript, PHP, MySQL, Java, Perl, LAMP/WAMP, Drupal CMS, Adobe Photoshop a wide range of Web browsers, and multiple operating environments such as UNIX, Linux, Windows Server.  ? Energetic and self-motivated team player. Skilled in concurrent management of multiple projects.  ? Ability to quickly troubleshoot and resolve application problems. Ability to communicate with non-technical personnel. Ability to work independently or as a member of a team, under minimal supervision. Ability to manage multiple projects to completion.  ? Strong communication, interpersonal, intuitive, planning, analysis, troubleshooting, leadership skills, and background in web graphics development, prototyping, and file formats operation. Work Experience Sr. Lead Drupal Developer Super Micro Computer, Inc - San Jose, CA May 2012 to Present • Install, configure, develop, and design the custom themes and modules for Drupal 6, 7, and 8 sites.  • Experience in migrating from Drupal 7 to Drupal 8 sites.  • Created custom modules in Drupal 8 and created a views display style plugin for Drupal 8.  • Create a new tool of Central Database System and Super-Server Configurator, meet the new specification, anticipate any new technologies, which will aid PMs (Project Manager), and Marketing group collateral, and maintain all product information. Usability, accessibility as well as a lightweight design look and feel and easy to use will be targeted. Maintained Web applications based on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap NodeJS, AngularJS, PHP, and MySQL.  • Work with marketing and product development to understand business objectives, provide the best possible solution given time constraints and technology available, and design solutions that are supported by the architecture of the existing systems.  • Provides creative vision, and manages the planning and implementation of Drupal web-base.  • Develop different content types using Drupal Field API, SOAP and REST APIs. Maintain Websites within content architecture. Import and export content from CVS or Excel files and generate PDF files for all contents.  • Responsible for leading and managing all facets of Web design and development projects including project prioritization, strategic planning, conceptual design, development, execution, implementation, and testing Sr. Web Developer Hewlett-Packard - Roseville, CA April 2011 to April 2012 • Created HTML5 and CSS3 Mockup pages for HP Support Center and IT. Installed and setup the Sandbox and Eclipse. Helped other developers using the right HP CSS styles, guideline, and testing JSP pages with Portlet Container Driver and Web Logic. Design, develop, and support report for IT department.  • Maintained and developed the HP IT Website availability demands using open source tools such as Linux, Apache, AngularJS, PHP, MySQL, and SQL. Sr. Web Developer InfoStar Productions - Rancho Cordova, CA May 2010 to March 2011 • Created, designed, developed, and maintained over 100 Websites using Drupal 6 and 7 CMS.  • Setup and maintained as many dental websites and applications base on HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, PHP, MySQL, and CMS such as WordPress, Joomla, and Drupal.  • Collaborated with lead developer to expand Drupal architecture and and implement the Varnish, Solr, GeoIP, Commerce, and Ubercart. Web Master/ Web Developer Synopsys, Inc - Mountain View, CA September 2008 to April 2010 Designed, developed, and implemented internal and external application with standards-compliant code emphasis on browser compatibility, accessibility, efficient and optimized PHP, HTML, XHTML, CSS, XSL, XML, AJAX, JavaScript, and AJAX/jQuery code, including data and system security, design and deployment of MS SQL and MySQL databases, graphical user interfaces, testing and documentation. Web Master/ Web Developer Stanfield Systems, Inc - Folsom, CA October 2006 to August 2008 • Designed, and implemented Web Sites by participating in all phases of the Web development lifecycle to include requirements elicitation and analysis; user interface and overall Web site design; implementation, testing, and deployment; content management and maintenance; and configuration management. Worked with many CMS such as Drupal, Joomla, and WordPpress.  • Designed, developed and maintained several web sites for government and non-profit organizations including brochure-like sites, product databases, web-based applications and e-commerce solutions for a wide variety of clients such as OHI and Atnet. Web sites were hand-coded in XHTML, DHML, XML, ASP, ASP.NET, Java, Perl, PHP4 and PHP5, JavaScript, AJAX/jQuery, and CSS to W3C standards as well as web accessibility and usability guidelines and best practices. Sr. Web Developer Intel - Santa Clara, CA May 2006 to September 2006 • Developed web 2.0 applications that involve Ajax/jQuery, DHTML, and JavaScript on the front and MySQL, Linux, Apache, PHP (LAMP), and Ruby on the back-end.  • Designed Web Applications using Dreamweaver 8, Front Page 2000, and Notepad.  • Developed an internal XML based Web Application which allowed for a more reliable, professional and efficient environment for viewing and comparing the Control Center's multiple data resources.  • Developed IIS applications using Visual Basic and ASP. Responsibilities included creating VBScript classes to encapsulate business functionality in the ASP. Web Designer, Web Developer Comcast - San Ramon, CA November 2005 to April 2006 • Designed and developed ScoreCard Compensation Payment System using Active Server Pages (ASP), ASP.NET, HTML, DHTML, CS, Photoshop, and SQL Server 2000.  • Designed Web Applications using Front Page 2000, Visual Web Developer 2005, and Notepad.  • Documented designs, tested cases, and tested results.  • Working with the Director and Sale Managers to identify and define system enhancements.  • Created and Developed pay period web reporting package detailing results commission and payroll for each employee. Sr. Web Developer, Web Programmer ABS Software Inc - Santa Clara, CA June 2005 to October 2005 • Designed and developed company website using Active Server Pages (ASP), ASP.NET, HTML, DHTML, CS, Photoshop, Access 2000, and SQL Server 2000.  • Designed Web GUIs using Front Page 2000, Dreamweaver, Visual Web Developer 2005, and Photoshop.  • Managed LAN and WAN using Terminal Services Client. Web Developer SanDisk - Sunnyvale, CA February 2004 to May 2005 • Developed the programming code (ASP, PHP programs, and SQL databases). Originally only for sales of SanDisk and produces significant revenue for the company. Integrated with SQL and Link point, this system was written in ASP on Windows 2003 Server, and provides an easy interface for both customers and warehouse administrators.  • Supported local and remote web developers and content developers.  • Analyzed problems within unit and recommend Internet and web-based solutions.  • Provided web-based communications to seismic and GPS communities of researchers and engineers.  • Collaborated with parent company unit personnel on web design and application development projects.  • Created Web Forms using ASP.NET, MS Visual Studio .NET, C#, VBScript, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript.  • My working for SanDisk involves upgraded and improved ASP programs on the site as well as HTML old print publications for the web. Sr. Web Manager TN Web Solutions - San Jose, CA May 2001 to February 2004 • Developed and took a leading role in implementing the presentation layer in Windows 2003 Server. Administered IIS 5 Server, performed coding of in ASP.NET, C#, VBScript, ASP, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML documents transferred to HTML using XSL.  • Designed, developed, and maintained over 28 of life cycle and logic of Web systems.  • Designed the database in MS SQL Server 2000, created specifications of SQL Server stored procedures and implemented most of them. Performed database administration.  • Detailed knowledge of database design and relational technology, specifically Oracle, SQL Server and Microsoft Access. Experience working in multiple Web programming languages / tools / technologies such as Dreamweaver, Photo Shop, Illustrator, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, VBScript, MS Visual Basic, Oracle, ASP, PHP, SQL, Java, PERL, Adobe Photoshop a wide range of Web browsers, and multiple operating environments such as UNIX, Windows 2000, 2003 Server, and Microsoft Internet Information Server.  • Consulted on design, structure, and implementation of various web sites, including web site marketing and search engine optimization base on a competitive intelligence analysis. Used FrontPage, Dreamweaver, and hand coding HTML in Notepad, JavaScript, VBScript, CSS, and CGI.  • Provides creative vision, and manages the planning and implementation of Web applications, I leaded Web Developer/Programmer/Designer for all Web projects.  • Responsible for leading and managing all facets of Web design and development projects including project prioritization, strategic planning, conceptual design, development, execution, implementation, and testing. Web Designer, Web Developer Lexel Laser Inc - Fremont, CA August 2001 to November 2002 • Designed a part of interface graphics. Prepared JavaScript and VBScript code for Lexel Laser Web-interface. Tested the interface for cross-platform compatibility. Developed and implemented the full-text search for online version of the Lexel Laser (more than 12,000 pages) using custom indexing engine (VBScript, ASP).  • Updated graphics and content across multiple Web sites on a periodic schedule (Dreamweaver, Photo Shop).  • Web site with online catalog, order form, password protection, redirects for multiple domain names, SSL, graphics, and interface along with web marketing.  • Logo and banner design, plus color optimization for the web, including positioning statement.  • In order to maintain contact with customers and developed customer database. Marketing uses the email address to send a monthly newsletter. Web Developer, Web Master Silicon Graphic Inc - Mountain View, CA June 1999 to November 2000 • Designed and maintained the Web site with over 600 pages. Created all the scripting, HTML and graphics. Consulting on Internet technologies and style issues.  • Performed web site testing and implementation (Dreamweaver, Photo Shop).  • Provided user interface and front-end development support for several existing and new Web-enabled software applications. Designed and developed Web pages and maintain code in accordance with project standards and best practices. Serve as a primary technical resource for Web-related questions and advises on Web problems for multiple platform levels. Create complex, high performing, multi tier web systems and graphics for Web pages. Multitask and manage multiple complex projects. Education Master of Information Systems Management in Information Systems Management Keller Graduate School of Management - Elk Grove, CA February 2009 Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems DeVry University - Fremont, CA 2002 Associate of Science in Accounting in Accounting Pensacola Junior College - Pensacola, FL 1996 Skills .NET, C/C++, C++, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, PERL, PHP, VBSCRIPT, VISIO, VISUAL BASIC, XML, ADO, MYSQL, ORACLE, SQL, jQuery, JSP, ASP, CGI Additional Information Skills    • C/C++ • Perl / CGI • Dreamweaver  • SQL / ADO / Oracle • PHP / MySQL • Adobe Photoshop / Flash  • Visual Basic / VBScript • MySQL Workbench • MS Word / Excel / Access  • JavaScript / JQuery • Joomla / WordPress • MS FrontPage / MS Visio  • HTML / DHTML • Drupal 5, 6, 7, 8 • Windows / IIS  • CSS / XML • LAMP/WAMP • Windows Server  • ASP / JSP / .NET • Bootstrap / NodeJS • Mac OS / Unix / Linux