Sr. PHP /Wordpress Developer Sr. PHP /Wordpress <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. PHP /Wordpress Developer - ACXIOM CORPORATION Austin, TX • Over 8+ years of IT experience including Web development, Database systems, 3-layer web applications development using PHP, HTML/XHTML/DHTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, AJAX, XML, JSON & SEO technologies.    • Good working experience in designing and implementing various web applications in both LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP) and WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, PHP) Environments.    • Working experience with PHP 5 which includes configuration, security, object-oriented programming, creating web services, custom frameworks.    • Knowledge on Model View Controller (MVC) architecture based Web Applications like Laravel, Code Ignitor, Symfony, Cake PHP, Zend as well as building PHP websites and applications using PHP Smarty Templeton Engine.    • Extensive working experience with Content Management Tools such as Drupal6 and Drupal7, Joomla and WordPress.    • Experience in developing UI applications using HTML, HTML5, jQuery, and AJAX, AngularJS and JavaScript.    • Proficient in Web Services, REST, WSDL, SOAP, XML, CSS3, DOM, HTML5, AJAX and JavaScript, and jQuery.    • Experience in IDEs like PHP Storm, Adobe Dreamweaver, phpMyAdmin, Eclipse, Microsoft Visual Studio, Zend Studio and NetBeans.    • Experienced in maintaining version control systems as SVN, GIT, website deployment, Databases, FTP Client and cPanel.    • Experienced in database designing, development and installation of different modules. Performed Back end development work using MySQL    • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views, Cursors and Functions.    • Excellent Profound experience in cross platform application development and maintenance with PHP development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, RedHat Linux, Fedora), Windows and MAC    • Experience in web and mobile testing using emulators, mobile devices and browsers like Safari, Chrome, Firefox, IE, Opera.    • Knowledge of security issues and best practices for building web applications.    • Working knowledge with Amazon Web Services (AWS) technologies Elastic Compute Cloud instance(EC2), Virtual private clouds(VPCs), Storage models (EBS, S3, instance storage), Elastic Load Balancers(ELBs).    • Efficient in using UNIX and SSH commands.    • Skilled in debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex applications.    • Ability to multi-task, react quickly to shifting priorities and meet deadlines. Proactive, confident and with a positive "can-do" attitude. Quick learner and can easily adapt to different environments.    • Good Experience in interaction with Clients as well as converting the Business Requirements into Technical Specifications.    • Strong understanding of quality processes and development of highly reliable software compliant with industry standards.    TECHNICAL SKILLS    Databases: MySQL, SQL Server, SQLite, Oracle, MS Access, PostgresSQ, MySQL, MongoDB    Web: XHTML, HTML5, CSS3, PHP, PHPUnit, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, ExtJs, SmartClient, JSON, XML, Wordpress, CodeIgniter, Template Engine, Apache, IIS, LAMP Stack, SOAP, REST, Python, Drupal 6/7/8. Frameworks: Zend MVC Framework, Code Igniter, Cake PHP, Smarty Template Engine.    Web Technologies: HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, Web Services (SOAP, REST API's), Social Networking API's, JSON    Script Editors: VS, My Eclipse, Dreamweaver, Microsoft Visio    Tracking Tools: Team Foundation Server, Redmine, Piwik, Google Analytics, Microsoft TFS, SharePoint 2007 Applications/ Tools: MS Office, MS Visual Studio, MS Office, Blender, Photoshop, Corel Draw, Dream Weaver, Illustrator, Flash, Git.    Operating System: Windows NT, Windows 2000, Windows XP (Prof), Windows 7, Oracle VM Virtual Box, VMware workstation and Linux.    Software: Aptana Studios, Toad, MATLAB, Fiddler, HFSS, Visual Studios.    Version Controls: SVN, VSS, GIT, CVS and Harvest. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. PHP /Wordpress Developer ACXIOM CORPORATION - Arkansas, AR, US March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), collaborated with requirements teammate to analyzed, defined and provided solution  • Worked with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Vue.js and blade for developing user and admin interface.    • Built multiple components for different course element players and quiz question players using Vue.js and Vuex  • Used Vue.js events distribution and parent chain for parent-child component communication    • Used Laravel view composers to bind data to a blade template which is frequently used    • Utilized Javascript ES6 import/export module, Browserify, Laravel Elixir and Gulp for javascript build    • Used Bootstrap SASS for webpage styling to provide mobile friendly and cross-browser features.    • Validations provided to some fields using Vue.js.    • Implemented SFPT protocol support to Lumen Server for building project assets CDN using League SFPT and League Flysystem  • Implemented Oauth client/server on application server and asset server to achieve the safely assets upload and delete feature  • Created internal questionnaire Laravel package to support questions, question reply, and question response    • Wrote web api endpoints with DingoApi include api versioning, transforming, and formatting feature    • Used localStorage to store data in browser    • Used Laravel 5.3 eloquent ORM to interact with backend MySQL database    • Used Ansible and Vagrant as DevOps    • Used NPM, Composer, and Gulp for build tools    • Worked in Agile based environment    • Created file and did Unit testing by creating Test Suites using PHP Unit, Codeception, and Jasmine    • Use Git version control, JIRA for bug tracking and Confluence for project management    • Used Jenkins as continue integration tools    • Involved to implement mock-ups and the layouts of the application PHP Developer Wolters Kluwer - Riverwoods, IL January 2016 to March 2017 Description: Wolters Kluwer N.V. (Euronext: WKL) is a global information services company. The company is headquartered in Alphen aan den Rijn, Netherlands. Wolters Kluwer in its current form was founded in 1987 with a merger between Kluwer Publishers and Wolters Samson. The company serves legal, business, tax, accounting, finance, audit, risk, compliance, and healthcare markets. It operates in over 150 countries.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on automotive, e-learning, health-care job portlets applications, e-commerce, mobility web services (REST, SOAP) and company intra-net  • US clients: Wish Upon A Hero, Expand Interactive, Marion Matters (health-care job portlet and e-commerce applications), Ifloor  • UK client: Motortrak    • Most recently worked on development of automotive inventory management application (IMS )which is build in zend 2.0 framework, used LAMP setup. It is using for multiple clients like Ferrari, land rover, etc.  • Worked on automotive content management system (CMS) which is build in PHP Sweet framework, used LAMP setup. This framework is build by client. This content management system successfully handles more than 150 site and used for dealers like Mercedes Benz, Jaguar.    • Traveled to London for automotive projects requirement gathering for three weeks in October 2013.    • Involved in client discussions, analysis of documents, and architecture of the system, source code and bug fixing on client location.  • Developed report module for IMS system. Created stored procedures for this module. Worked on integration of third party libraries, plugins, database gateways and adapters, calling stored procedures using gateways with Zend framework and developed unit test cases with PHPUnit.  • Simultaneously worked JIRA bug fixes for client integrated modules. Used Bit Bucket version control system for these applications.  • Developed Magento-Netsuite connectors in PHP using REST, SOAP web services on Linux (LAMP). These connectors help to handle data, sales orders between these two systems having different technologies. These connectors have email notification, error handling and data tracking features.    • Created REST web services in php for I-pad/I-phone application.    • Developed REST web services for Liferay portlets which shows information from Magento e-commerce application.  • Analyzed and resolved critical bugs in health-care job portal. Developed new features in applications as per client requirements.  • Worked on SEO for the applications. Participated in client communications and involved in suggestions on solving.  • Unnoticed issues by client. Also, maintained all these changes on client's version control system (SVN).    • Developed e-learning application for on line training for different businesses eg. Roland printers, DTE Energy, etc. Developed user, groups, solution finder, checklist, advance search modules in the application. Also, created REST web services for the Iphone, Ipad devices. Application and web services are developed using PHP Kohana framework and Linux platform (LAMP). Worked bug fixing and change requests. Used SVN version control system for this project.  • Developed different portlets in Liferay 6.0.6 for Nous intra-net. Worked on Birthday Bash, Joining Anniversary, Image gallery, and Tennis Tournament portlets. Also, involved in existing bug resolutions.  • Analyze the business requirements. Design and develop the system. Unit testing and implementation of changes if required. Analyze and resolve the internal and client issues in the developed application. Communicate with customer for requirement gathering, understanding issues and suggest solutions.  Environment: PHP 5.4, Zend framework, Magento CMS, Kohana framework, Liferay 6.0.6, LAMP, MySQL, Apache, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Git, PHP Unit, Jira, SVN. Sr. Drupal/ PHP / UI DEVELOPER Robbins &Myers Inc - Dayton, OH August 2013 to December 2015 Responsibilities  • Worked on an open-source CMS Drupal to build website using Drupal 8.    • Designs, Develop Custom Drupal Modules for implementing Oauth and REST API.    • Worked on Node.js and Socket.io for developing a chat application    • Used all aspects of MySQL/ PHP Programming (object oriented PHP), Zend Framework in LAMP environment.  • Used on Linux platform (LAMP), Magento CMS, MySQL, REST web services,  • Continuous build integration & deployment (Jira, Bamboo, Confluence, Git, Jenkins).    • Experience in AWS cloud design, Architect, implement, and consultancy.    • Worked with XML, jQuery, Django, PHP and JSON    • Worked in an SVN/GIT managed environment.    • Experience with creating script for data modeling and data import and export. Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing MongoDB clusters. Experience in creating JavaScript for using DML operation with MongoDB    • Develop Contact Fill Application using Drupal and installation and integration of the Application online.    • Design in HTML 5, DHTML, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery for making website more attractive.    • Developed custom modules by integrating Web Services like REST and SOAP.    • Extensive verification and testing in order to set MySQL database free from SQL injections throughout course of database development and management.  • UseGIT, Drush scripting, Acquia Cloud, Amazon EC2.    • Maintain high volume availability demands using open source tools such as Linux, Apache, PHP, and MySQL.    • As a developer, created a personal development site using backbone.js to better understand new "trends".    • Maintain User groups with Drupal CMS.    • Designed applications in AJAX with rich user interfaces.    • InstallMySQL workbench Client to access MySQL Server.    • Implemented web application with Backbone.js and PHP Code Igniter framework    • Requirements gathering from business and defining specifications for the system.    • Worked in a team, Involved in developing the UI, layout and front-end programming (HTML) from wireframes    • Developed mockups and prototypes using VISIO.    • Did extensive Javascript and JQuery programming to give AJAX functionality for the website.    • Used Bootstrap with JavaScript, HTML and CSS.    • Installed and configured Drupal 6.0 in the UNIX environment and performed various Content Management System modifications for the Websites.  • Worked on Drupal theming, User experience design.    • Worked on Drupal module development & systems administration.    • Worked on managing, editing and deleting the site content and publishing and un-publishing them in Drupal.    • Built basic mobile templates using Bootstrap.    • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5/HTML, DHTML, CSS and JavaScript.    • Developed fast loading images using Adobe Photoshop CS3.    • Developed CSS styles to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  • Experience creating dynamic FLASH applications using JavaScript and Flash animation using Adobe Flash 5.5.  • Worked on Stack Zend PHP, Apache Web Server, SVN, Oracle, JavaScript, jQuery    • Worked on HTML5/CSS and jQuery in a Drupal based CMS environment    • Carried out extensive verification and testing in order to set MySQL database free from SQL injections throughout course of database development and management.  • Involved in Web development of start-up FriendsLane.org to interdisciplinary Talent acquisition and guidancefor the small budget entrepreneurs.  • Excellent work done in writing queries, stored procedures, triggers and functions in SQLServer, Oracle, DB2 etc.  • Developed customer facing software for managing advertisements to grow the business using Backbone.js, javascript/jQuery, REQUIRE.JS, HTML, CSS.  • Developed configuration programs to compatible to different browsers and resolutions on Chrome, IE, & Mozilla Firefox.  • Worked with the Database Schema design and normalization for database accessed by the procedural PHP pages.  Environment: Drupal 6/7/8, REST API, OAuth, PHP 4/5, HTML 4/5, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, MySQL, JQuery,Windows, Apache, MVC Frame Work, jQuery, CSS Web Developer State Farm Insurance - Bloomington, IL November 2012 to August 2013 Project: Title Source Application  Description:State Farm Insurance is a Insurance provider company. It provides title insurance for home owners and lenders.  In this application, we collect the information about buyer, lender, property details and maintain the records.    Based on the information provided, we provide the insurance policy for them for home titles.    Responsibilities:  • Creating Front-end Applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XML and JSON.    • Functionalities include writing code in HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, and making use of Bootstrap framework and testing the functionalities.  • Worked with the team, helping them build out their markup and CSS. My Specialty is large scale CSS (Sass), focusing on reusability and modularity.  • Familiar with concepts of Directives, Data-Binding and Dependency Injection in Angular.JS.    • Worked extensively on web 2.0 migration from Conventional Web Frame work to Ajax driven framework and extensively used jQuery, AJAX and MVC in Presentation Layer.  • Extensive use of Twitter, Bootstrap, framework to achieve RWD, i.e., makes the portal compatible for various screen resolutions which are trending in the market today.  • Created a CSS framework for using a 12-column grid preferred by the designers as well as implementing parts of CSS to cut down on repetitive code.  • Implemented JavaScript module patterns using asynchronous script loading.    • Involved in writing jQuery based Ajax Requests using jQuery get (URL, data, callback, type) or jQuery. Ajax (options) & jQuery. Post (URL, data, callback, type) & jQuery. Get (URL, data, callback, type).  • Worked on Angular.JS and Node.JS issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers.    • Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with existing styles and new CSS that was implemented.    • Tested cross browser functionality and fixed major layout bugs for supported browsers which include IE6.  Environment: HTML, CSS, Java script, JQuery, Bootstrap, Angular.JS, Node.JS, JSON WEB DEVELOPER Westgate Resorts, Inc - Ocoee, FL January 2011 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of the Project Life Cycle and also analysis of the system based on n-tier architecture.    • Actively involved in the requirement gathering from the user.    • Used Target Process to plan and track the project tasks.    • Actively involved in scrum meetings for requirement analysis, task analysis, and progress discussions.    • Designed web pages and wireframes for applications using MS Visio.    • HTML5, Razor, JSON, HTML helper's web-Server controls were used to create View Engines.    • Bootstrap is used for making the pages responsive with the changes in User Interfaces    • Angular.JS was used to make the web applications dynamic and is used for making DOM manipulation.    • Designed GUI using the HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Jquery, Angular.Js and Custom Controls.    • Involved in developing client side scripting using Angular.Js.    • Developed ASP.NET, MVC application in Test Driven Development environment.    • Worked with various Angular.Js Expressions, Directives, Filters and Controllers.    • Worked with web services when the service requested is of HTTP.    • Implemented and Deployed SSIS packages for Data migration from traditional platforms.    • Have used the Cordova framework to build the barcode scanner and ionic framework to integrate the application into the mobile.  • Angular Js was used for creating the controllers, Factories, Services, Custom Directives.    • Custom validations were done using JQuery and JavaScript.    • Designed data access layer using Entity Framework model and successfully created Entity Models.    • SQL Server and Oracle sql developer is used in the database.    • Used LINQ to Sql writing data access classes, complex T-SQL Stored Procedures, triggers, views to capture and modify data.  • Used Git lab and Tortoise SVN for version control of the source code along with the maintenance of the builds and the relevant documents of the same.  Environment: MS Visual Studio 2012, C#, ASP.NET, MVC 5.0, SQL Server 2012, ADO.NET, JavaScript, Query, Angular.JS, Entity Framework, XML, Bootstrap, HTML5, AJAX and Windows Server, Cordova and ionic framework. PHP Developer New York, NY June 2009 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed website with Core PHP along with XHTML, HTML5, Angular.JS, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS3, Ajax, Bootstrap, and APIs.  • Implemented and configured on-line payments gateways, Affiliate management system, CMS referrals system, Credit Card Processing, User Authentication, Content Management, Account Maintenance, and Site Administration.  • Implemented Bootstrap to make sure that the website is compatible on all the operating systems such as Linux PHP Laravel routes and authentication to extend the functionality of the server and configured the application using Apache server.  • Built PHP applications to meet product requirements and satisfy use cases using MVC architecture, Laravel Framework and Drupal CMS.  • Integrated existing Drupal modules as well as create custom theme, module, views, functions and hooks.  • Designed and developed of modules of web-based applications using LAMP technology.  • Worked on PHP programming, including OO, procedural, data structures and design patterns.  • Wrote PHP codes to interact with the third party JSON services to provide an easy to configure web service server interface.  • Performed code debugging of JavaScript and HTML code with Firefox Firebug and Google chrome using JavaScript debugger.  • Worked with the design of the templates and skins in CSS. Responsible to handle frontend side of application to make it high performance, rich and user friendly.  • Developed data access module, wrote queries through built-in query builder in Laravel 5 framework.  • Used twig for creating template for the views and binding parameters from the controller.  • Developed an efficient Administration module to manage the portal dynamically.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using Integrated Laravel framework into the Back End of Angular JS, HTML5, CSS3, LESS.  • Implemented and created tables for web application with Relational Database MySQL for queries, design and normalization.  • Adopted a cross browser and cross platform approach to make the website more versatile and Supportive.  • Configured and developed custom WordPress responsive theme using Bootstrap and SASS.  • Involved in the designing the templates, plugins, modules, active pages and customizing the CMS WordPress, PHP.  • Performed manual WordPress core, plugin upgrades and developed custom MySQL queries and tested with PHPMyAdmin.  • Enhanced and maintained in optimizing sites for usability, search engines and accessibility, and updated existing sites and content management systems.    Environment: HTMLPHP5, LAMP, WAMP, MYSQL, WordPress, Bootstrap, Oracle, JavaScript, PostgreSQL, AJAX, MVC, PhpMyAdmin, JEdit, HTML 5, CSS 3, Django, MS Excel, Linux, MS Word, Agile. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (7 years), CSS. (7 years), HTML5 (8 years), JavaScript (8 years), jQuery (8 years), Wordpress, PHP, Website, Angular, Word Press Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Databases: MySQL, SQL Server, SQLite, Oracle, MS Access, PostgresSQ, MySQL, MongoDB    Web: XHTML, HTML5, CSS3, PHP, PHPUnit, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, ExtJs, SmartClient, JSON, XML, Wordpress, CodeIgniter, Template Engine, Apache, IIS, LAMP Stack, SOAP, REST, Python, Drupal 6/7/8. Frameworks: Zend MVC Framework, Code Igniter, Cake PHP, Smarty Template Engine.  Web Technologies: HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, Web Services (SOAP, REST API's), Social Networking API's, JSON    Script Editors: VS, My Eclipse, Dreamweaver, Microsoft Visio    Tracking Tools: Team Foundation Server, Redmine, Piwik, Google Analytics, Microsoft TFS, SharePoint 2007 Applications/ Tools: MS Office, MS Visual Studio, MS Office, Blender, Photoshop, Corel Draw, Dream Weaver, Illustrator, Flash, Git.  Operating System: Windows NT, Windows 2000, Windows XP (Prof), Windows 7, Oracle VM Virtual Box, VMware workstation and Linux.    Software: Aptana Studios, Toad, MATLAB, Fiddler, HFSS, Visual Studios.    Version Controls: SVN, VSS, GIT, CVS and Harvest.    Technical Skills:    Extensive knowledge of HTML, XHTML, DHTML, HTML5, CSS3, PHP4, PHP5, CFM, JavaScript, MSSQL, AJAX, JQuery, XML& JSON.    • PHP frameworks (PHP Storm and CakePHP)    • CRM / Marketing Automation    • Email Marketing    • Google Tag Manager Implementation    • Corporate Branding    • Photoshop, illustrator, InDesign, Dreamweaver, After Effects    • Drupal    • Web Service/ API Integrations    • Writing scripts on Python, Ruby on Rails    • Managing Diverse Multi-National Teams