Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - ZOLL Medical Corporation Rockport, MA Web Developer skilled in HTML, CSS, Javascript, jQuery, Bootstrap, PHP, MySQL, MS SQL Server, Databases    SUMMARY: Always looking to learn more, I keep up with the latest trends in web development by attending Front End Development, PHP and CSS Meet-Ups in Boston several times a month. I've also completed the Learn React/Redux Track and the Front End Developer Track on Treehouse.com, nearly 60 hrs of HTML, CSS, jQuery, Javascript, Sass, and Git training. Work Experience Web Developer ZOLL Medical Corporation - Chelmsford, MA February 2019 to Present • Currently performing a buildout of the marketing section of Zoll.com using HTML and CSS.  • Work with designers to create visually appealing responsive microsites using HTML5, CSS3, Javascript/jquery, git.  • Optimize and test across major browsers.  • Troubleshoot and provide continual maintenance and upgrades of sites. Web Developer FST Development - Gloucester, MA December 2015 to Present • Portfolio - www.fredtarbox.com  • Built website for Marblehead Community Store - www.marbleheadcommunitystore.com  • Built lunch ordering for Marblehead Community Store using Javascript, PHP, and MySQL.  • Project - Netflix Clone using React/Redux. Web Developer PetEdge - Beverly, MA October 2014 to December 2015 • Maintenance of company B2C and B2B eCommerce sites www.petedge.com and www.petedgedealerservices.com using HTML, CSS, Javascript, jQuery, Git Bash and Git GUI, Selenium, Jenkins and CoreMedia CMS.  • Acted as the go-between for the Creative department and backend Java development team in India for the project to implement responsiveness of the existing non-responsive website using Bootstrap.  • Implemented Zopim, a Javascript based chat application for Customer service. Web Developer FST Development - Gloucester, MA 2012 to 2014 • Portfolio - www.fredtarbox.com  • Designed and developed website for Spencer Photography using HTML, CSS3, jQuery www.fredtarbox.com/spencer Senior Engineering Technician Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates - Gloucester, MA 2009 to November 2013 Fabrication of electrical cables and harnesses from prints and notes in support of the New Product Introduction team. Test Engineer 2001 to 2008 • Obtained requirements from R&D to create automated and manual test procedures to ensure quality of electrical and mechanical assemblies of ion implantation equipment using LabVIEW.  • Designed Excel macros using VBA to analyze test data, reducing test time by 25%.  • Installation and support of MS Office to support the test process.  • Monitor existing tests for opportunities of continuous improvement.  • Managed multiple projects simultaneously with changing priorities. Software Engineer 1997 to 2001 • Designed, developed and maintained a web based Software Release Database system using HTML, CSS, ASP, SQL Server 2000 on IIS 4.0. System includes tracking of company software releases, tracking of bug fixes and regression tests, various reports, queries, stored procedures and triggers.  • Designed and maintained an Intranet based facilities maintenance request system for the enterprise using HTML, CSS, ASP, SQL Server 2000 on IIS 4.0.  • Assisted with basic network tasks (creating and maintaining user accounts, users and groups) and installation and support of MS Office software.  • Maintained legacy software release documentation system using MS Access and automated MS Word 97 (VBA). Education Database Management Boston University Bachelor of Science degree in Business Northeastern University - Boston, MA Certificate Northeastern University - Boston, MA Skills Javascript, Front End