Full Stack Web Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Web Developer - WebTechUSA Houston, TX Innovative and proactive Web Developer bringing more than 15 years of experience of developing website and web application for clients. Use various web design software to develop customer-focused websites and designs. Committed to high standards of web design, user experience, usability and speed for multiple types of end-users. Successful at maintaining customer satisfaction through effective customer support. Talented in project management, team leadership and independent problem-solving. Highly organized multitasking with expertise in scheduling projects, enhancing designs and verifying code. Work Experience Full Stack Web Developer WebTechUSA - Houston, TX January 2013 to Present • Analyzed requirements and designed, developed and implemented applications for multiple websites.  • Designed, implemented and monitored web pages and sites for continuous improvement.  • Used programming capabilities in PHP, MySQL, Ajax, and JavaScript as needed.  • Created responsive site layout and user interface using HTML, CSS, jQuery and Bootstrap practices.  • Implemented Google Campaigns and SEO for various types of websites. Senior Web Developer VIP PowerNet - Houston, TX January 2007 to December 2012 • Worked on various technologies, including Dial-up Internet, Web Hosting, and VoIP services.  • Designed, developed, coded and maintained university management software for American International University West Africa www.aiu.edu.gm.  • Designed, developed, coded and maintained healthcare management software for http://www.pwrmd.com/  • Used various technologies to develop, maintain, and optimize front-end and back-end components for corporate websites related to various services including http://aiu.edu.gm/, http://www.550access.com/, http://www.vipwh.com, http://www.pwrmd.com/ and many more.  • Developed landing pages, dashboards and online applications using PHP, ASP, MSSQL, MySQL, PostgreSQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and other libraries  • Integrated PayPal and Authorize.Net to accept credit cards for Dial-up, Web Hosting and VoIP corporate service websites.  • Participated in database design and architecture to support application development projects. Optimized database systems for performance efficiency. Performed data back-up and archival on regular basis.  • Collected, defined and translated user requirements into project designs and implementation plans.  • Developed, coded and updated sites for various web hosting and web development clients.  • Implemented Google Campaigns and SEO for various types of websites. Web Developer VIP PowerNet - Ahmedabad, Gujarat September 2003 to January 2007 India    • Used programming capabilities in PHP, ASP, SQL, JavaScript, Amazon Web Services and other libraries as needed.  • Created site layout and user interface using HTML and CSS practices.  • Developed, coded and updated sites for clients.  Designed, implemented and monitored web pages and sites for continuous improvement. Education Master of Computer Applications in Computer Applications Computer & Information Sciences AES Institute of Computer Studies - Ahmedabad, Gujarat 2003 Bachelor of Science in Chemistry St. Xavier's College - Ahmedabad, Gujarat 2000 Skills Angular, Jquery (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), Java, C#, PHP (10+ years), MySQL (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), SEO (10+ years), PostgresSQL, Asp, Asp.Net