Public Relations/Community Relations Specialist Public Relations/Community Relations Specialist Web Developer/ Community Relations Specialist Philadelphia, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Public Relations/Community Relations Specialist Cherokee Nation Assurance contractor for U.S. EPA - Home, PA June 2017 to Present • Developed new design for Fact Sheets; Developed Public Notices / other documents; Coordinated publication; Provided administrative support at Public Meeting; Updated website.  • Provided Support to U.S. EPA Superfund Community Involvement Branch. Web Developer 22nd Century contractor for the U.S. EPA - Philadelphia, PA November 2013 to June 2017 • Manage the website for Region 3’s Hazardous Site Division. Maintain and update the Drupal and html pages as needed.   • Web design: One of two people representing Region 3 in the web redesign of the Superfund Site Profile web pages, a significant effort. For the Brownfield program, developed the look and feel of the website (within EPA standards)  • Ensure that the site complies with the U.S. EPA’s standards and follows their Web Guide including 508 compliance for the disabled, image labeling standards, disclaimers, and so on.   • Known for attention to detail, spotting problems and issues, and diplomatically getting problems resolved with the correct people.  Web Developer Vistronix contractor for U.S. EPA - Philadelphia, PA November 2006 to September 2013 • Manage the website for Region 3’s Hazardous Site Division. Maintain and update the Drupal and html pages as needed.   • Web design: One of two people representing Region 3 in the web redesign of the Superfund Site Profile web pages, a significant effort. For the Brownfield program, developed the look and feel of the website (within EPA standards)  • Ensure that the site complies with the U.S. EPA’s standards and follows their Web Guide including 508 compliance for the disabled, image labeling standards, disclaimers, and so on.   • Known for attention to detail, spotting problems and issues, and diplomatically getting problems resolved with the correct people.  Web Developer Learning by Grace - Philadelphia, PA June 2006 to September 2006 • Updated and developed html pages for the organization’s Academy websites.   • Managed the PHP Live and phpAdsnew Services.   • Developed Graphics for the curriculum pages. Multimedia, Web Developer Internship Vision August 2005 to December 2005 • Created and developed websites in html for the company's clients using Dreamweaver and Flash.  • Optimized images for photos and websites using Photoshop.  • Worked on several projects for architect, doctor, lawyer and mold removal specialists.  • Collaborated with other staff members as well as worked individually to complete projects. Education B.S in Multimedia and Web Design Art Institute of Philadelphia 2005 A.S in Interactive Multimedia Delaware County Community College 2002 Skills Html, Basic Javascript, Css, Dhtml, Dreamweaver, Authorware, Flash, Illustrator, Publisher, Photoshop, Sound Forge, Willingness to learn Links http://linkedin.com/in/charles-uebele-iii-b9a21422