Web Developer / System Analyst <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> / System Analyst Web Developer / System Analyst - The Dow Chemical Company Friendswood, TX Work Experience Web Developer / System Analyst The Dow Chemical Company - Houston, TX April 2016 to Present • Full stack software developer responsible for end-to-end web application development.  • Meet with clients to gather requirements to design and develop responsive, interactive intranet applications across multiple businesses within the company.  • Working independently and collaboratively on multiple projects simultaneously.  • Developed a Capital Projects Procurement application to enable standardizing reporting on progress and efficiency of Capital Procurement teams supporting capital projects globally.  • Developed a Global Project Measurements system (MOD-V) that provides information for Measurement Tools, Business Rules for reporting metrics, Metric Management System (MMS), Communication of changes in GPM Measurements and Metric Results. It also provides users with the different types of metrics for different Metric Family such as Large Projects, Intermediate Projects, Small Projects, Construction Management Self-Assessment, Error-Free Engineering, and Process Automation.  • Developed a Project Expertise Index system that assigns key project steering team members with the right expertise for given projects. It identifies training, mentoring, and coaching needs for key team members to become proactive to any expertise gaps on projects.  • Developed a Cost Estimating system that consists of arriving at the estimated cost of a project by assembling all the cost elements involved in the defined scope of a project, such as materials, labor, specialties, indirect costs, escalations, contingencies, and cap interests.  • Developed a Global Project Measurement Dashboard to monitor Global Capital Efficiencies, Project Execution, Operations Leadership for Large Projects, and Site Execution Projects. Web Developer / Application Support Specialist Shell Oil Company - Houston, TX July 2007 to November 2015 • Developed UI/UX responsive .NET applications to enhance and add new functionally to existing applications developed by third party software vendors.  • Developed SOAP based Web Services to expose SQL data to web and windows applications.  • Successfully implemented and supported new applications in the AWS cloud (Amazon Web Services).  • Worked in conjunction with Project Managers and Business Analysts on new applications.  • Assisted with 3rd party software vendors with infrastructure, landscape, installations, sign-offs and rollouts and ensure all Change Management (ITIL) was followed.  • Coordinated software releases with the businesses, vendors and support staff in a global environment. Web Developer / System Analyst CRI/Criterion, Inc - Houston, TX July 1996 to July 2007 Developed an enterprise web application (Cat Check), that collects process data from PI and Historian systems from refining  units globally, validates the data, and presents the data in both standard and customized charts for the technical service engineers to analyze, monitor the health of reactors, make recommendations to management, and write reports. The system performed complex algorithm calculations for rapid analysis comparison of current performance.  • Developed a web application that calculates the basic design parameters to size a catalytic incinerator for complete H2S removal from a Claus sulfur plant tail gas or other processes with S and H2S emissions.  • Developed a web application (Reactor Cycle Model) to serve marketing and sales, operations planning, and financial needs with a single, integrated source of information. Forecasting model simplifies input requirements to ensure value-added use of sales and engineering resources. SQL Replication and data retrieval from Oracle database via Linked Server.  • Developed a Lot Tracking Inventory Reporting System for a refining plant. Featured complex dynamic management reports.  • Developed a number of other Classic ASP and .NET web and windows applications to support various branches of the business. Education BS in Electronics and Computer Technology University of Houston - Houston, TX AA in Electronics Technology Tyler Junior College - Tyler, TX Skills Microsoft access, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Sql, Microsoft visual studio Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/harveyvera http://hv.x10host.com