Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Walker, LA Full Stack Application Developer  Professional Application Developer with over 18 years experience managing multiple projects  while successfully meeting deadlines. I have extensive experience across multiple application  development platforms, frameworks, and APIs and have been actively involved in all stages of  the application development life cycle. My specialty is building solid and secure n-tier solutions  using ASP.Net MVC, WCF, and SQL Server. I have a great work ethic, strong analytical and  communication skills, and am capable of working within a team or as an individual contributor. Work Experience Software Developer Avenu Insights & Analytics - Baton Rouge, LA September 2018 to August 2019 Optimize legacy applications for maximum performance on newer operating systems.  ? Create custom Sql views and stored procedures to support clients reports.  ? Provide technical support for current product line. Senior Developer Shoppers Choice, LLC - Baton Rouge, LA January 2018 to April 2018 Designed and developed enhanced features for intranet applications to better support  business needs and improve employee productivity and efficiency.  ? Analyzed and optimized SQL queries for improved performance.  ? Provided technical support for online retail stores. Sr. Web Application Developer Louisiana Interactive, LLC - Baton Rouge, LA February 2015 to November 2017 Designed and developed data access, business logic and presentation layers for several  www.expresslane.org services for Louisiana's Department of Public Safety using  ASP.Net MVC, WCF, and Sql Server.  ? Supported Louisiana's Department of Public Safety's accounting team by developing an aggregating reporting system that tracked bank disbursements and payments collected  via www.expresslane.org services and also flagged discrepancies and imbalances for administrative review.  ? Increased productivity by designing and developing scheduled tasks to perform system  maintenance and automated functions.  ? Mentored junior-level developers.  ? Assisted management in assessing organization's compliance with current standards for application security and data encryption. Sr. Web Application Developer Louisiana Interactive, LLC - Jackson, MS July 2011 to February 2015 Worked in close collaboration with Mississippi's office of the State Treasurer to design  and develop a web application containing over 125 reports to publicly disclose the state's various revenue streams and expenditures using ASP.Net, WCF, and IBM DB2.  ? Increased productivity by designing and developing an ASP.Net application to facilitate  Active Directory account management via a user-friendly user interface.  ? Contributed innovative features to the relaunch of the state's official website, www.ms.gov, which helped Mississippi place within the top 5 for the State Portal  category of The Center for Digital Government's Best of the Web Awards in 2012.  ? Designed and developed data access, business logic and presentation layers of web  applications for various other state agencies.  ? Mentored junior-level developers.  ? Assisted management in assessing organization's compliance with current standards for application security and data encryption. Web Application Programmer Stewart Enterprises, Inc - Jefferson, LA August 2001 to June 2011 Designed and developed data access and business logic layers of web applications for corporate intranet in ASP.Net 3.5/C# or ColdFusion MX on MS Server 2003 with MS  SQL Server 2005 backend.  ? Collaborated with Marketing and Corporate Communications departments and third party  vendors to maintain and enhance company owned e-commerce websites.  ? Administered IIS web servers.  ? Developed test plans for QC/testing of web applications.  ? Provided second level support for Help Desk in regards to web server and intranet  connectivity issues.  ? Provided after hours and weekend on-call support for Help Desk two weeks out of each  month. Stewart Enterprises, Inc - Jefferson, LA September 2000 to August 2001 Produced and maintained content for corporate intranet.  ? Converted document based content into HTML.  ? Worked closely with content owners to ensure intranet content was kept up to date.  ? Provided second level support for Help Desk in regards to web server and intranet  connectivity issues. High-Speed Data Technician Cox Communications - Metairie, LA June 1999 to August 2000 Installed and configured Cox@home internet service at customers' homes.  ? Diagnosed and resolved network connectivity problems.  ? Provided field training for new employees. Education Computer Information Systems Tulane University - New Orleans, LA Associate of Science in Computer Information Technology in Computer Information Technology Delgado Community College - New Orleans, LA Skills Ajax, Asp, Coldfusion, Iis, Asp.net, Sharepoint, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, C#, Bootstrap, Json, Wcf, Php, Vb.net, Vb6, Android Links http://www.linkedin.com/pub/jesse-kyzar/9/7b0/407 http://www.jessekyzar.com Additional Information Technical Skills    ? ASP.Net  ? WCF  ? MVC  ? C#  ? VB.Net/VB6  ? PHP  ? Coldfusion  ? Angular  ? Java  ? T-SQL (SQL Server)  ? MySQL  ? REST  ? SOAP  ? AJAX  ? JSON/JSONP  ? jQuery  ? Sharepoint  ? Google Maps, Bing Maps, & Mapbox APIs  ? Bootstrap  ? Android  ? Geo-IP/Targeted Content Delivery  Tools    ? Microsoft Server  ? Microsoft Visual Studio  ? Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio  ? MySql Workbench  ? Microsoft IIS  ? Microsoft Sharepoint