Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> www.ronaldroyales.com San Francisco Bay Area, CA Expert in React/Redux, html, css and javascript/jquery. Experience in angular 1 to Angular 6. Expert with python/django and php for the backend. Please visit my website at www.ronaldroyales.com and www.spaceroyales.com    I use react/angular/jquery/bootstrap and bulma for the frontend and python/django for the backend. I create IOS app with swift and xcode.    Please schedule a phone interview at https://www.ronaldroyales.com/calendar Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Helplookup July 2018 to Present Use Python and Django and PostgreSQL for the Backend. Use Django Rest Framework while using session cookies to login and logout from the angular front end. Refactor some of the code to use Json Web Token to login and logout from the IOS app. Use Django Allauth for the registration and authentication.    Use Angular 2/4 Components templates and databinding separate from Django templates. Use template driven forms instead of the reactive form of angular 2/4. Make use of the async pipe for the http service observable so the data can be easily manipulated on the template and no need to unsubscribe the observable onDestroy. Create authentication with route protection combined with the object level permissions with Django rest framework. Use withCredentials to true to use the session of django, json web token was not used because the user needs to login again if the user opens up another tab.  Create a responsive website with html5 and css3. Use media queries for different screen size of the device.    Use Git for version control system. Fluent in the front-end technologies and frameworks like less, sass, jquery and bootstrap, Experience with web serivices like linode and webfaction with servers like nginx and apache.    Use react and bulma for the frontend and python/django and postgresql for the backend. use .httaccess to correctly use react-router BrowserRouter in production build. Use formik for form controls and error management. Use axios for promise based http client. Use waypoint for scroll management.    Use swift and xcode to create a login and logout and use keychain for the Json Web Token as an extra security while using NSUserDefault for preference and other user data. Use Inkscape and Gimp for the user interface. Created an in-app purchase and submit the app to the app store. Web Developer Stanford - Palo Alto, CA February 2006 to July 2018 Certified web professional in the Stanford environment received in 12/2008. Received certification for more than 5 years of excellent service in 03/2012. Design and develop web applications using html, css, javascript, jquery, php and python. Used Ajax, Json with Jquery for request data and response processing.    Validated HTML, CSS, and Javascript code. Publish using AFS, use advanced .htaccess file manipulation. Restrict access to web pages using WebAuth and restricted to any SUNet ID.  Use code that complies with the W3C Priority 1 and Priority 2 Accessibility guidelines.     Write high quality Javascript and CSS to create an exceptional user experience, Build efficient and reusable front-end systems and abstractions. System administration, database design, administration and build APIs for web and mobile. Design, develop, test, deploy, maintain and improve software. Education Associate Skills Python/Django (5 years), IOS (1 year), jquery (10+ years), CSS3 (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), php (2 years), React (2 years), Angular (3 years), HTML 5 (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Web Professional in Stanford December 2008 to Present Certifications for stanford web professionals. Additional Information Experienced Web Developer using python/Django and php/zend, PostgreSQL and MySQL for the backend. Javascript/Typescript, Html5, Css3, Jquery and Angular 6 for the front end. Experience developing IOS apps using Swift.