Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Web Developer New York, NY Proficient and creative WordPress web developer with a strong history of website management. Comprehensive understanding of WordPress core software, database connectivity, and its functions. Hands on experience in creating, extending and customizing WordPress themes. In-depth knowledge of installing and configuring WordPress sites. Work Experience Web Developer Aventria Health Group - Parsippany, NJ June 2019 to Present - Working on Company’s website that has been merged from multiple websites into one main WordPress website with 27 Custom Templates.   - Researching to identify all current issues and creating a Business Requirements document for restructuring the website.  - Working closely with company’s Graphic Designer and Project Manger to verify and approve the changes.   - Implementing new CSS code, updated HTML in multiple pages and posts, updated PHP code in custom templates and made changes inside several Widgets and Shortcodes.   Web Developer RESOURCEFUL BUSINESS - Short Hills, NJ February 2019 to Present - Responsible for weekly maintenance of seven different websites.  - Updated content with Visual Editor and HTML5.  - Used Managed WordPress account with GoDaddy using Notepad++ to access cPanel of the website.  - Enabled debug.log file to monitor errors.  - Added Facebook functionality into footer by adding PHP code into functions.php file.  - Wrote code in Additional CSS to format Youtube for mobile devices. Web Developer/Graphic Designer PUBLIC SERVICE TELEVISION - New York, NY November 2018 to January 2019 - Customized WordPress Themes.  - Transferred WordPress website from one host to another.  - Moved blog to WordPress.  - Researched and developed various Themes and plugins.  - Updated posts as appropriate and edit pages as instructed. Web Developer/Graphic Designer PAPPAS MACDONNELL - Southport, CT 2018 to December 2018 - Revamped and maintained WordPress website.  - Project was based on Continuous Integration development practice.  - Resolved web issues using JIRA.  - Wrote code using HTML and CSS.  - Prepared business and technical documentation. Web Developer/Graphic Designer ICR, INC - New York, NY October 2018 to October 2018 - Set up and configured MailChimp accounts for client.  - Coded and developed HTML email templates for clients.  - Updated existing WordPress website. Web Developer/Graphic Designer HAIN APPAREL, INC - New York, NY July 2018 to September 2018 - Communicated with client via email to keep them up to date throughout.  - Prepared website proposal to present to client.  - Provided technical support to client.  - Utilized Adobe Suite to optimize brand logo and extend WordPress Theme.  - Used MySQL to maintain tables on the website databases through PHPAdmin panel. Web Developer/Graphic Designer HAPPY CULTURE, INC - New York, NY December 2017 to June 2018 - Built website using WordPress from scratch  - Transferred website from unsecured HTTP to secure HTTPS certificate.  - Created database and tables for Products and Customers using MySQL.  - Optimized website for search engine optimization.  - Performed quality assurance tests. Programmer Analyst NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO - New York, NY July 2000 to December 2015 - Designed, developed and programmed applications and interfaces.  - Analyzed, debugged and resolved data and application issues.  - Gathered and documented business requirements.  - Developed, tested and implemented new products.  - Prepared technical specification documents. Education Certificate in Web Programming and Graphic Design Hunter College Continuing Education - New York, NY September 2016 to June 2018 BS in Navigation in Navigation Kiev State Maritime Academy - Kiev, UA 1979 to 1983 Skills Javascript, HTML 5, MySQL, PHP, jQuery, CSS Links https://felixlevine.com/