Senior Manager, Digital Marketing Senior Manager, Digital Marketing Senior Manager, Digital Marketing - Aon plc Wilmette, IL Digital marketing professional with extensive experience in digital strategy, campaign management, website development and design, project and program management, data analysis and reporting. Work Experience Senior Manager, Digital Marketing Aon plc - Chicago, IL December 2010 to Present * Develop, enhance and manage digital properties produced to market $10B global company, including corporate website and special-purpose microsites.  * Work with colleagues and external vendors to develop and execute content marketing campaigns across paid, earned and owned channels.  * Leverage data from Google Analytics and other sources to guide continuous improvement for websites.  * Develop, document and communicate company-wide digital best practices and brand standards.  * Serve as liaison between marketing and Aon IT departments. Web Development Lead / Online Project Manager Aon plc - Lincolnshire, IL September 2002 to December 2010 * Initiated and drove project to develop database-driven architecture for corporate website, with custom content management system.  * Led team of developers in India and the U.S. to build next-generation corporate website.  * Conducted online visitor surveys and usability studies to guide continuous improvement.  * Designed, developed and published special-purpose microsites.  * Managed teams of contractors and vendors to develop websites and interactive content.  * Defined and maintained usability, design and development standards for all marketing websites.  * Served as technical advisor for and facilitated implementation of HewTube, Hewitt's internal online video channel.  * Served as liaison between marketing and Hewitt IT departments. Web Developer / Web Product Manager Focal Communications - Chicago, IL September 2000 to July 2002 * Managed online customer service tools in extranet sites; surveyed customers and developed requirements for new tools.  * Determined application flow and created prototypes.  * Wrote user documentation; developed and maintained online help files.  * Designed, developed and published online customer newsletter.  * Developed content for Focal corporate website. Web Content Team Manager / Web Developer DigitalWork - Chicago, IL January 2000 to July 2000 * Managed team that developed and maintained content components of e-commerce-enabled business-to-business services.  * Managed team that wrote, produced and distributed iWork Advisor, a biweekly online newsletter.  * Lead planning, development and implementation of redesign of iWork Advisor. Team Leader / Web Developer Platinum Technology - CA Technologies - Oakbrook Terrace, IL September 1994 to January 2000 * Managed development team creating and maintaining content for websites and intranet sites, including Platinum and CA corporate websites.  * Content produced included product trial downloads, information and online registration for events and programs, and marketing and sales materials. Education Bachelor of Arts The Pennsylvania State University Skills Marketing, Digital marketing, Information architecture, Sem, Seo, Social media marketing, Data analysis, Content management, Html, Javascript, Css, Usability, Microsoft project, jquery, Wordpress, Google Analytics, Photoshop, Social Media Management, Google Analytics, Photoshop Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/keithreehl Assessments Search Engine Optimization — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/bshbshu7l-jmhibc Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills    Digital marketing - Social media marketing - Content marketing - Website design, development and production - Website usability and information architecture - SEO - SEM - Project management - Data analysis and reporting - Email marketing - Needs analysis - Market/customer research    Software & Tools    Google Analytics - Adobe Analytics - WordPress - Kentico - Proprietary content management tools - Eloqua - Moz Pro - SE Ranking - ForeSee - Loop11 - Microsoft Project - HTML - CSS - JavaScript - JQuery