Senior UI/UX Designer (Contract Senior UI/UX Designer (Contract Senior UI/UX Designer Scottsdale, AZ • Accomplished Web Designer/ Developer with 15 years of experience  • Influential advocate for UX design best practice  • Resourceful in creating highly functional user centric design layouts  • Efficient, systematic, problem solver  • Knowledgeable team leader Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior UI/UX Designer (Contract Republic Services - Scottsdale, AZ February 2019 to June 2019 Senior Web Designer / Developer International Cruise & Excursions, Inc. (ICE) - Scottsdale, AZ July 2015 to February 2019 • Gather business requirements and evaluate user needs   • Communicate with clients and product managers to understand business objectives    • Collaborate with engineers ensure technical feasibility for features and UI/UX designs   • Develop evidence driven personas and usage scenarios  • Illustrate design ideas using storyboards, process flows and prototypes  • Optimize for conversion rates by solving complex UI/UX actions  • Build reusable code and libraries for future use  • Implement cross-browser compatible responsive templates  • Support, test, qa and debug within staging and production environments for functionality PHP Web Developer Voice Media Group - Phoenix, AZ April 2014 to July 2015 Support and enhance overall usability of existing and new applications utilizing CakePHP (Object Oriented Programming), MySql, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3. Research and implement best proven practices and latest trends in web development. Participate in daily stand-up's and meetings, collaborate with coworkers to identify efficient and sustainable solutions. Other tools or skills include Sublime, GIT, Git-Flow, SVN, Bootstrap and Less Js.  UI/UX Web Designer, Developer Homesmart Realty - Phoenix, AZ April 2014 to July 2015 Participate in daily meetings, discuss and contribute to the development of custom web applications. Create and prioritize deadlines and execute project initiatives. Design wireframes, mockups, custom user interfaces and layouts to bring ideas and functionality to life. Research and implement the latest trends and best proven practices in front-end development. Convert Photoshop designs to HTML5, CSS3 and implement additional functionality with jQuery and JavaScript. Create custom WordPress templates and add additional required functionality utilizing plugins and/or custom coding. UI/UX Web Designer, Developer Freelance/ Contrac - Phoenix, AZ January 2011 to June 2013 Design, code, launch and manage eCommerce email marketing campaigns for SilverTribe.com to a list of 70,000 subscribers via Bronto. Boosted email signup subscribers by a whopping 700% when offered incentives in combination with a well performing two part squeeze page. Increased website sales by enhancing user experience and eliminating bottlenecks. Researched, pitched and implemented strategies with the goal of driving sales and increasing subscriber click through rates. Design and code multilevel web pages in HTML5, CSS3 and jQuery. Create WordPress themes with custom functionality in PHP. UI/UX Web Designer, Developer Leadpile - Phoenix, AZ March 2010 to January 2011 Research competition & create a winning strategy in conversions. Design, code & implement conversion enhancements to landing pages & micro sites. Track and measure user behavior and conversions via Google Analytics, ClickTale, and CrazyEgg. Assist SEO co-worker in implementing internal optimization. Create custom WordPress themes and micro sites. Create & maintain lead capture forms, assist developers in usability testing & bug tracking. Web Designer / Developer Freelance/ Contract - Phoenix, AZ September 2009 to March 2010 Design web applications that incorporate client's brand, business logic and objectives. Code custom content management systems in PHP to allow users to update and mange website listings with photos and information. Web Designer MartzAgency - Scottsdale, AZ January 2009 to September 2009 Translate client brands into web pages that offer users a rich user experience. Hand code designs into HTML and CSS templates. Update existing websites with new content, images, forms and other elements. Web Designer / Developer GoRenter.com - Phoenix, AZ March 2006 to January 2009 Research competitors in the property rental market and develop a winning web strategy. Create website user flow (search > results > details) to allow users to quickly find property rentals and contact agents via phone or email. Design and code new company website to house property rentals managed through an admin panel by agents. Research and apply search engine optimization techniques to current website.Work with content writers to develop high quality, keyword optimized content for website. Increased website traffic from 600 to 40,000 monthly visits in a span of 6 months. Provide website support, error tracking, PHP updates and feature enhancements. Features include search by; map, area of town, city, property criteria, save & send to a friend. Web Designer MartzAgency - Scottsdale, AZ March 2005 to March 2006 Translate client brands into web pages that offer users a rich user experience. Hand code designs into HTML and CSS templates. Update existing websites with new content, images, forms and other elements. Education Bachelor of Visual Communications Degree in Graphic Design Collins College 2004 Skills HTML / CSS / SASS (10+ years), PHP / MySql (6 years), JavaScript (6 years), Photoshop / XD / Illustrator (10+ years), Sketch (Less than 1 year), Web Design (10+ years), Mobile Design (6 years), Visual Design (10+ years), Interaction Design (10+ years), User Research (10+ years), MailChimp / Bronto / Constant Contact (5 years), WordPress (5 years), CraftCMS (4 years), CodeIgniter (5 years), CakePHP (2 years), UXPin (2 years), InVision (4 years), Prototyping / Wireframing / Flowcharts / Mind Mapping (10+ years), jQuery (5 years), Angular JS (3 years), Angular (1 year), Ajax (4 years), JSON (5 years), Git (8 years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/jbotos http://jbotos.com