.NET Developer .NET <span class="hl">Developer</span> .NET Developer - IFLOWSOFT Solutions Inc Anchorage, AK • Over 12+ years of experience in full project life cycle including Project Planning, Analysis, Design, Development Testing, Implementation and Documentation.  • Experience working on 3-Tier, N-Tier Architectures, MVC (Model View Controller)inWeb & Windows applications  • Familiar with several design patterns such as Singleton, Facade, Iterator, Dependency Injection, Repository, IOC, UnitofWork, etc.,  • Designed and developed web based using ASP.NET, C#.NET, MVC, ADO.NET,WPF, LINQ, JQuery, Web API, Angular2/7, Web Services & WCF, ASP, IIS, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, XML,XSL,SQL Server 2005/2008/2012, Oracle10g&11g.  • Expertise in Microsoft .NET Technologies - .NET Framework 4.6/4.5/4.0/3.5/2.0/1.1/1.0, C#.NET, ASP.NET, ASP.NET MVC and ADO.NET.  • Expertise in using ADO.NET objects such as Connection Object, Command Object, Data Reader Object, Data Adapter Object and Data Set Object.  • Experienced in Agile and Waterfall Model software development methodology. Played the role of Scrum Master in organizing project deliveries and coordination with client.  • In-depth understanding and experience in building Server applications using C#, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, XML Web Services, HTTP modules, Handlers, Multi-Threading and Delegates based on .Net Framework 4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0  • Developed ASP.NET MVC 4.0/5.0 applications and have hands on experience with Razor View Engine.  • Experienced in building Data Driven Applications using Microsoft Entity Framework.  • Expertise in creating and using WCF Services, WEB API and Web Services.  • Possess good knowledge and work experience using LINQ.  • Experienced in creating reports using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Working experience in using Bootstrap& JavaScript frameworks like Angular.  • Experienced in Server-side Programming, creating and using Stored Procedures.  • Conceptual knowledge of Object Oriented Programming methodologies (OOPS).  • Experience in lot of project proposal from start to end documentation SRS, URS, Functional design and various design documentations.  • Experience in Integration testing, writing Test cases, Test plans, Bug analysis and fixes.  • Experience using Team Foundation Server 2010 (TFS), SVN, GIT for Version Control.  • Experience in ORM LINQ (Entity Framework). Experience inVisio documentation tool.  • Having experience of various tools such as Fiddler for testing of web services, TOAD, Rally etc.  • Solid 7+ years' experience in DB design (SQL DDL & DML), procedural programming (stored procedures, triggers), T SQL, PL/SQL Performance Tuning, improvement, storage, index and configuration.  • Experienced in designing and developing Databases in SQL Server 2005/2008/2012 which includes the development of functions, stored procedures, views, joins and triggers using T-SQL and PL/SQL.  • Good knowledge of concepts in Relational Database Management Systems like ORACLE and SQL Server.  • Worked on Query Optimization to improve the performance of Queries.  • Hands on work experience with Database driven Approachwhich helps work in the front end application very less.  • Used Execution Plan, SQL Profiler and Database Engine Tuning Advisor to optimize queries and enhance the performance of databases.  • Experience with JavaScript libraries like JQuery, Lodash, Accounting.js, Hash, Bootstrap.  • Good team player with excellent communication and interpersonal skills, ability to work individually or as part of a team.  • Fast learner and quickly adapt to new technologies that help improve the business. Work Experience .NET Developer IFLOWSOFT Solutions Inc - Iselin, NJ May 2017 to Present Project:CONSULT  Description:Atkku Consult is a management software which allows to integrate accounting system INTUIT(QuickBooks) to keep track of projects associated with consultants. It is part of Atkku Products and was specifically designed to quick Invoice generation with QuickBooks, easy approval and automatic email notification to Clients. This software is focused on simpler and effective way to submit and track timesheets with automatic reminder for submission and simplified billing with unique billing rates for different users, case types, clients, and activities.  Responsibilities:    • Designed the corporate application providing project scope, wire frames, collaborating with IT teams, and business group equaling 100% completion within project time line.  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle including Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Maintenance.  • Worked in 3-tier architecture for presentation layer, the Business and Data Access Layers and were coded using C# implemented SOLID principles.  • Worked in Agile mode, plan and deliver for two-week sprint and participate in all scrum ceremonies.  • Responsible for design and development of Web User Interface using Bootstrap, Angular 7, JavaScriptand Middle tier layer business objects (ASP.NET WebAPI) using C#.Net.  • Used ASP.NET MVC Data annotations to enforce data validation.  • Handled ASP.NET features such as Exception Handling, and Custom Error Messages.  • Developed complex MVC Controllers, View Models and Helper methods linked to backend database.  • Implemented REST - the standard HTTP request and response mechanism, simplifying implementation and providing for a looser coupling of the client and server.  • Used Fiddler for web debugging and inspecting and composing API's request and response data.  • Generated Entity models using Entity Framework 6 for database interaction with Repository.  • Experience in using LINQ query to retrieve data from different data sources like objects, XML and SQL.  • Wrote business logic to handle transactions from and to database using ADO.NET objects such as Data Sets and Data Readers.  • Worked on creating tables, views, triggers, constraints, Stored Procedures, Functions, and Packages using T-SQL, based on the documented user requirements.  • Wrote Queries and Stored Procedures for integrating database for CRUD operations with databases.  • Used Angular for client side data bindings to build dynamic views of data.  • Involved in Troubleshooting and resolved application issues escalated from end users.  • Has worked on unit testing and end-end testing.  • Used log4net logging component.  • Used GIT for Source Code Control, project related document sharing and team collaboration.    Environment: Visual Studio 2017, .NET Framework 4.5, ASP.Net MVC 5.0, C#, OOPS, ADO.NET, ORM LINQ, WebAPI , HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Typescript, Angular 7, AJAX, JSON, Entity Framework 6, Microsoft SQL Server 2012, T-SQL, GIT, IIS7, log4net,Protractor, Jasmine, Karma and windows 10 Senior .NET Developer INFOSYS Technologies January 2015 to April 2017 Designation:Technology Lead    Project:Breach and Compliance Reporting System  Description:The project is to generate letter to be sent out to the customers of the bank who has backlogs in payments of mortgage loans and other breach activities. Worked on various phases of Software Development Cycle. BCRS is a Webbased application for bankingdomain and it is user-friendly solution for the Managers to keep track of all the users in compliance.    Responsibilities:  • Providing a complete website solution, from design and development through to hosting in Microsoft DevOps.  • Maintain Project backlog, Storyboarding and automate application to deployment.  • Held a Full Stack Developer role in the Agile Scrum development project. This role includes a wide array of responsibilities from requirement analysis, solution conceptualization, development, deployment and build management.  • Extensive knowledge of CSS (bootstrap) and JS methods for providing performance.  • Improved application scalability usingby converting DLL to building the RESTful API.  • Provide technology direction by evaluating, demoing and selecting new JavaScript technologies (lodash, accounting.js, hashing) and development patterns to be leveraged across the team  • Leverage modern JavaScript frameworks such as Angular and Node to build world class user interfaces for web applications and used TFS for versioning.  • Created TDD on ASP.NET Web API, ASP.NET MVC (Moq)  • Identify and correct problems uncovered by user testing or customer feedback.  • Using ASP.Net MVC 5 for front-end websites with MVC Controllers, Angular for the Project.    ASP.NET Web front end:  • Developed the Data Layer Class using C#, which is reusable for the data transactions of the entire project.  • Developed the application using ASP.NET concepts like Master Pages,Handlers, Sessions, Post backs,Multi-Threading and Delegates etc. using C#.  • Used AngularJS for client  way and two way data bindings to build dynamic views of data.  • Created and Used AngularJS custom directive and service.  • Developed Responsive UI layer utilizing semantic CSHTML, AngularJS, REST API architecture while adhering to the latest web UI standards, design patterns and best practices.  • Used JavaScript concepts to create different Client-Side functions that greatly decreased the processing time and resource consumption.  • Created and consumed WCF Services.  • Developed Single Page Application (SPA) apps using AngularJS andBootstrap.  • Testing and reproducing the issue to determine if there is a defect.  • Used ASP.NET MVC Data annotations to enforce data validation.    Environment:Visual Studio 2013 IDE, C#, ASP.NET, MVC 5, AngularJS1.3, ADO.NET, XML, IIS, JavaScript, Jquery, TFS, SQL Server 2012, .NET Framework 4.5, WebForms. INFOSYS Technologies January 2007 to April 2017 Senior C# Developer INFOSYS Technologies October 2012 to December 2014 Designation:Sr.net developer    Project: MyMI  Description:An intranet application which provides Managers within Branch, Private, Direct Bank, Specialist Banking and Head Office locations with management information on sales, sales and resource planning.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in front end development using Asp.Net, MVC5, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS, Angular JS, Bootstrap, JSON and Ajax.  • Used CutewebUI.MVCUploader to upload the files.  • Developed the Data Layer Class using C#, which is reusable for the data transactions of the entire project.  • Developed Business Logic, reusable components, Windows services.  • Developed classes using C# for Tracing, Error Logging.  • Used JavaScript concepts to create different Client-Side functions that greatly decreased the processing time and resource consumption.  • Used WPF built-in set of data controls to bind and manipulate data within applications.  • Worked with LINQ to XML, LINQ to Collections, Object etc.  • Worked on Grid Controls and Sever Controls to meet the client requirements.  • Used SVN for version controlling.  • Using Entity Framework 6 for database interaction with Repository.  • Identify problems uncovered by testing and customer feedback, and correct problems or refer problems to appropriate personnel for correction.  • Maintenance and continuous integration.  • Classic ASP new development and legacy application support.  • Implemented .net SFTP service to connect using WCF services to DRM  • Involved in low level design preparation, problem analysis and Knowledge Management (prepare, Tracking, Customer interfacing)  • Provide management for continuous integration build process based off MLTP-process for MS.NET desktop and web applications  • Useddependency injection to Decouple all the context-work from Repository, and let the DI container handle disposal of resources  • Used compiled queries to improve performance of your LINQ queries when retrieving data exposed by the EDM.  • Some performance improvements applied are Avoid pulling all the database objects in one entity data model. Retrieve only the number of records that are needed and avoid using "Contains" when using LINQ to Entities.  • Used paging to retrieve only the data that is requested for or restrict the amount of data that is retrieved from the database. Also, added indexes to entities by making a call to the CreateIndex() method.  • Removed Lazy loading of few of the data objects so web front end can fetch data faster.  • Implemented Exception handling mainly on the insert where user insert data on primary key where identity is not set and when Identity is set removed the CUD operations.    Environment:Visual Studio 2013 IDE, C#, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, XML, IIS, JavaScript, JQuery, SVN, .NET Framework 4.5, MVC5. ORACLE 10g, NETEZZA, Business Object 6.5, UNIX, ASP.NET 3.5, Microsoft Visual Studio 2010, Jquery, IIS 6.0 Web UI .NET Developer INFOSYS Technologies July 2010 to September 2012 Designation:Technology Analyst    Project:HERMES Pricing Tool  Description:This is a pricing tool used by Relationship Managers to create deals for the customers and to resolve the discrepancies in fixing the price of the products and also to track the deals.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in different phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Designing, Programming, Testing and Documentation.  • Involved in front end development using Asp.Net, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS, Jquery, JSON and Ajax.  • Used Google API call to update longitude, latitude and timezone values,  • Developed the Data Layer Class using C#, which is reusable for the data transactions of the entire project.  • Developed the application using ASP.NET concepts like Master Pages,Handlers, Sessions, and Postbacks etc. using C#.  • Developed Business Logic, reusable components, Windows services using VB.NET.  • Developed classes using C# for Tracing, Error Logging.  • Used JavaScript concepts to create different Client-Side functions that greatly decreased the processing time and resource consumption.  • Worked with LINQ to XML, LINQ to Collections, Object etc.  • Developed webpages using ASP.NET and used AJAX for reports.  • Created and consumed WCF Services.  • Worked on Grid Controls and Sever Controls to meet the client requirements.  • Used XSLT for generating Lists, by collecting the data from XML documents and formatting them using XSL.    Environment:Visual Studio 2012 IDE, C#, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, XML, IIS, VB.NET, JavaScript, Jquery, Microsoft Visual sourcesafe System, SQL Server 2008, .NET Framework 4.0, ADO.NET, WebForms, WCF, MVC 4 .NET Developer INFOSYS Technologies April 2008 to June 2010 Designation:Technology Analyst    Project: Portfolio Reporting System  Description:The project is to generate report on current investment and wealth forecast of High Net Worth as well as Individual Clients. Worked on various phases of Software Development Cycle and was also part of the team to create Services for mobile version of the application.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in different phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Designing, Programming, Testing and Documentation.  • Involved in front end development using MVC4.0,JavaScript, HTML, and CSS, Bootstrap, Angular JS, JQuery, JSON and Ajax.  • Developed the Data Layer Class using C#, which is reusable for the data transactions of the entire project.  • Developed the application using ASP.NET concepts like Master Pages, Sessions, and Postbacks etc. using C#.  • Developed Business Logic, reusable components, Windows services using VB.NET.  • Developed classes using VB.NET for Tracing, Error Logging.  • Used Microsoft Entity Framework for modeling the application.  • Developed complex LINQ to Entities queries for accessing the Entity Framework Model.  • Used JavaScript closures & JavaScript libraries to create different Client-Side functions that greatly decreased the processing time and resource consumption.  • Worked with LINQ to SQL, LINQ to XML, LINQ to Collections, Object etc.  • Used WCF to build high performance and secured document retrieval layer to retrieve data from a SQL server based system.  • Worked extensively on IIS 7.0 for effective utilization of WCF Services.  • Worked on Grid Controls and Sever Controls to meet the client requirements.  • Designed and developed various reports using Crystal Reports and enabled the option of exporting to Excel and .PDF files. The reports provide the option of entering the parameter values from the form.    Environment:Visual Studio 2010/2012 IDE, C#, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, XML, IIS, VB.NET,Crystal Reports, JavaScript, JQuery, Multithreading, WCF, WPF, Microsoft Visual Team System, Oracle 11g, .NET Framework 4.0, ADO.NET, WebForms, Web Services, MVC 4.0. .NET Developer INFOSYS Technologies January 2007 to March 2008 Designation:Technology Analyst    Project: Serve - P2P  Description:The Service allows you to establish an Account to facilitate payment transactions using electronic payment networks and certain other electronic methods. Individuals may also receive a Card which may be used to conduct certain transactions through the Service after the Card is activated. Where a Sub-Account has been opened, certain transactions may also be conducted through the Sub-Account or a Sub-Account Card and where a Reserve has been opened, certain transactions may also be conducted by the Accountholder using a Reserve.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements gathering, Functional and Technical specifications.  • Worked closely with Business Teams and Technical Design Architects to understand the flow, and also worked on client enhancements for existing applications with the QA Team.  • Used Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) concepts for developing the project.  • Developed Business Logic and reusable components using C#, VB.  • Used different concepts in JavaScript like inheritance, closures, etc..  • Used WCF for developing and deploying services on Windows, in line with the Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Developed ASP.NET MVC 4 Applications in Test Driven Development (TDD) environment using Microsoft Unit Testing Framework.  • Implemented Data Access Layer using ADO.NET to communicate with SQL Server 2008.  • Used SSRS to generate reports and integrated using report viewer.  • Involved in creating tables and writing Stored Procedures as required by the solution.  • Involved in code management activities using TFS.  • Developed n-tier objects such as Business, Data Access, and Application layers.    Environment: .NET Framework 3.5/4.0, TFS, LINQ, ADO.NET, VB.NET, Web Services, WCF, MVC, XML, WinForms, WebForms, SOA, CSS, JavaScript, SQL Server 2008, and T-SQL, NETEZZA, UNIX Education Bachelor's Skills .net, Visual studio, Api, C#, Git Additional Information Technical Skills:  . NET Technologies NET Framework 4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0, ASP.NET, VB.NET, C#, WCF, WPF, LINQ, MVC, Entity Framework, Web Services, ADO.NET,ASP.NET Web API  Language C#, SQL, PL/SQL  Web Servers IIS 7.0/6.0/5.0  Web Technologies HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, JSON  Database Technologies SQL Server, Oracle  Testing Moq Framework, Jasmine, Protractor, Karma  Reporting tools SQL Server Reporting Services  IDE Visual Studio/Code, Toad, Postman, Fiddler, Chrome Dev tools, MS Sql Server  Configuration Tools MS Team Foundation Server, SVN, Git  Framework Microsoft .NET Framework 4.51/4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0, AngularJS/2/7