Freelance Web Developer and Technician Freelance <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> and Technician Freelance Web Developer and Technician Brooklyn, NY ? 3+ years of experience in Web development.  ? Applied knowledge of all stages of the Website development cycle, including user requirements, technical design, coding, testing, documentation and deployment.  ? experience in PHP and Mysql integration.  ? Experienced in wordpress theme Development and plugin development  ? Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills with established record of delivering high quality website on-time.  ? Experience in Designing and developing websites using Bootstrap Framework.  ? Good knowledge of conducting Quality assurance operations on websites and fixing bugs.  ? Responsive sites for multi device use, on Android and iOS platforms.  ? Hand coding clean HTML and advanced CSS to Web standards.  ? Good knowledge of Adobe photoshop.  ? Good communication and interpersonal skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance Web Developer and Technician New York, NY February 2019 to Present Technologies and skills: HTML, CSS, Wordpress, Adobe Photoshop, PHP, Chrome Devtools, Amazon seller Center, iPhone repair.  Web Development Projects:  ? (Gibsondogwalking.com), I designed this Dog walking services website using wordpress.  ? (Techflipping.com), a website that provides price insights for ebay phone resellers. I am developing this website in collaboration with a team (Still under development)  ? Websites facelift.  ? Website page speed optimization  ? Website plugin customization.  ? Websites modifications.  Ecommerce Listing Specialist Contracts:  ? (Covitly), an amazon Store. I managed the products listings, Performed product research, managed fulfillment process, reviewed and submitted product information, and managed all aspects of Amazon Seller Center.  Computer and Phone Repair Projects:    ? Provided affordable and professional residential computer service and repair.  ? Resolved computer hardware and software, printing, installation, word processing, email and operation system issues.  ? Diagnose and fix cell phones based on customers complaints on certain symptoms. Web Developer Ambroase Welsh Empire - West New York, NJ July 2018 to December 2018 Technologies: HTML, CSS, Wordpress, Adobe Photoshop, PHP, Chrome Devtools.  Responsibilities:  ? Collaborated with the team members in building the organizations' website: (www.humansofourworld.org) using wordpress.  ? Customized website pages design using CSS3  ? Led the Development Team and delegated tasks to other developers based on skill levels and workload.  ? Gained experience in creating custom post types.  ? Edited WordPress plugins under the organization needs  ? Edited photos using Adobe Photoshop. Web Developer Gramercy Global Media Inc - New York, NY October 2017 to January 2018 Technologies: HTML, CSS, Wordpress, Adobe Photoshop, PHP, Screaming Frog, Chrome Devtools, Woocommerce.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed custom responsive WordPress websites  ? Implemented various WordPress plugins to improve the performance, functionality and desired strategic goals of the business.  ? Gained experience with SEO principles and practices.  ? Carried out quality assurance tests to discover errors and optimize usability.  ? Crawling websites to find and fix broken links.  ? Used Chrome development tools for debugging of layout problems.  ? Image editing using Photoshop.  ? Used Mailchimp for Newsletter and email marketing campaigns.  ? Maintained the existing websites, which included updating the Content    Featured Websites:  ? (www.australestates.com): I completely designed and developed this custom site using wordpress CMS, HTML, CSS. I Crawled the website using Screaming Frog to fix any broken links and create SEO Strategy for the site.  ? (https://www.thenewyorkdoula.com): I completely designed and developed this custom site using wordpress CMS, HTML, CSS. I Implemented various WordPress plugins to improve the performance, functionality and desired strategic goals of the site.  ? (www.integralsande.com): I redesigned the homepage as well as creating new page to reflect the company's new role as an exclusive agent in Nigeria for FIFA 1018 World Cup in Russia.  ? (www.cookforyourlife.org): a website specialized in healthy cooking for cancer patients, it reaches over 250,000 people touched by cancer worldwide each month and was recently named to the Feedspot Top 200Health Blog list.I managed the weekly updates of the website content (recipes, blog, videos, ..) using wordpress.  ? (http://predictdata.io): I conducted Quality Assurance testing on the website And fixed all the issues found.  ? (http://www.supremedigital.net): I carried out Quality Assurance (QA) to optimize the site as well as crawling the website using screaming frog to fix broken links and generated links to create seo strategy Web Developer- Remote UMMA Group February 2017 to April 2017 Technologies: PHP, HTML, CSS, Wordpress, Photoshop.  Responsibilities:  ? Analyzed the organization's requirements, designed and Developed the website.  ? Maintained the existing website, which included updating the Content  ? Designed seminar posters and graphic works for the organization using Adobe Photoshop.  ? Configure the conference call service using www.freeconferencecallhd.com for the organization's meetings.  • Created e-mail accounts for several clients. Webmaster www.rollempro.com - Brooklyn, NY October 2015 to August 2016 Technologies: PHP, HTML, XAMPP, CSS, JavaScript, Photoshop.  Responsibilities:  ? Analyzed the company's requirements, designed and developed the website.  ? Designed and created all layout and graphics on the site using Adobe Photoshop.  ? Built the website using PHP, HTML, Javascript, and CSS.  ? Maintained the existing website, which included bug fixes and updating the Content  ? Created and sent out newsletters to site Clients.  ? Delivered great customer service by overseeing customer service inboxes, providing appointment information, setting appointments, updating customer addresses, and answering clients concerns and questions.  ? Managed the company's E commerce store on Amazon.  ? Created product listings and optimized product descriptions, images, keywords in Amazon Seller Central.  ? Maintained, repaired and installed programs onto PCs. Assessed existing personal computer systems and performed upgrades accordingly.  ? Created internal administrative application using PHP, HTML, CSS, and Mysql.  ? Miscellaneous Administrative Tasks. Computer Technician Power Import and Export - Khartoum, SD 2011 to 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Maintained, repaired and installed programs onto PCs. Assessed existing personal computer systems and performed upgrades accordingly.  ? Significantly improved company trajectory by transitioning the system from manual to digital by determining the requirements, supervising the software purchase and managing the active directory.  ? Set the standard for carrying out the administrative duties of the office, including sending emails and processing documents. Skills Content management, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Php, Content management systems, Css, Html5, Database, Mysql, Postgresql, jquery, Sdlc, Version control, Frameworks, Front-end design, Wordpress, Front-end, Testing tools, Front End Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/mazen-ajab-87630a70 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages: HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, Javascript, PHP.    Frameworks: jQuery, Bootstrap, W3.JS,    Development Platform: NPM, Composer  Developing Tools: Brackets, Atom, Sublime Text  Testing Tools: PHPUnit  Database: PostgreSQL, MySQL  SDLC: Agile  Version control: GIT, GITHUB  Content Management Systems: Wordpress    FEATURED PROJECTS    ? www.HassanLaw.info  Devised plan to design and develop a new business website for a legal services office. Used Bootstrap efficiently to complete front-end design and PHP for back-end programming.    ? www.australestates.com  I designed and developed this custom site using wordpress.    ? www.thenewyorkdoula.com/  I designed and developed this custom site using wordpress.  ? www.integralsande.com  I redesigned the homepage as well as creating new page using wordpress.