Product Operations Manager Product Operations Manager Product Operations Manager - PayPal Los Gatos, CA Self-starter & hard worker. Will work long hours if needed to complete project.  - Able to handle multiple projects & always delivers projects on time.  - Familiar with e-commerce, cross-platform issues & dynamic web technologies  - Expert level proficiency in managing corporate websites and intranet websites  - Strong skill sets in influencing and implementing corporate branding strategy, information architecture and imbibing best practices  - Proven track record in handing multiple projects, managing expectations, deliver complex systems for cross-functional departments  - Managed deliverables involving vendors, consultants, development teams - onsite, offsite and offshore  - Hands-on skills in managing open source platforms like DotNetNuke, vBulletin, WordPress and Drupal, and commercial platforms like SharePoint Application and Server  - Strong technical skills in Active Server Pages (ASP)/Visual Studio, CSS, VSS, PHP, SVN, Flash, Photoshop, Illustrator, Dreamweaver, MS SharePoint Designer, JavaScript, and VBScript  - Hands-on experience with managing and implementing Single-Sign on Solution using PingFederate.  - Proven expertise in negotiating with vendors Work Experience Product Operations Manager PayPal - San Jose, CA August 2018 to Present Work closely with Consumer Product Marketing team, as well as stakeholders that include: engineers, developers, marketing, test team, data scientist, etc. on a day-to-day basis.  ? Manage and improve PayPal's outbound and inbound communication via PayPal's payment application platform.  ? Translate business use cases into scope and technical requirements. Executing requirements and follow-up with all stakeholders, and working extensively with proprietary tool that is used for personalization and configuration of PayPal.com.  ? Establish process flow, deployment and standardize QA process for all projects within the CEP group. Web Marketing Manager ShoreTel - Sunnyvale, CA January 2015 to December 2017 Oversee the day-to-day platform, content management, custom integrations and operations of the website and its service  ? Work and coordinate with cross-functional teams and stakeholders to scope, build, and design campaign-related web properties to drive lead generation (e.g. event microsites, advertising landing pages, sales programs, email campaigns etc.)  ? Deliver marketing tools and associated technology end to support a wide variety of marketing campaigns  ? Analyze web interactions using various web analytic tools - and contribute towards a better user experience, growing lead generation, and a higher conversion rate, across the website  ? Ownership and responsibility to maintain and grow existing system integrations associated with the website - real-time personalization, data-append, marketing automation, CRM and analytics  ? Oversee the user experience to provide consistency, simplicity and value while supporting corporate guidelines and corporate objectives to drive customer acquisition, sales and retention as well as market awareness  ? Handle all the day-to-day changes on the public and partner sites  ? Optimize and continuously improve the website for Search Engines; apply SEO best practices throughout the site  ? Responsible for reviewing and recommending hosting and performance optimization strategies  ? Engage with external design and development teams as well as internal resources to deliver projects from concept and beyond (analyze, design, build, test, implement, support)  ? Advise marketing as well as other relevant departments within the company on emerging web-based and mobile technologies, their potential use and benefits. Includes competitive research to determine how peer firms may be using these technologies  ? Act as the business owner to plan, maintain, develop, and evolve corporate and partner websites, including managing the ongoing project queue, all vendors/contractors, and resource allocation IT Web Manager/Senior Web Developer/Designer Aruba Networks - Sunnyvale, CA August 2007 to December 2014 Manage a small team of developers both on-shore and off-shore  ? Manage and maintain external facing websites - corporate web site (PHP), partner site (DotNetNuke), support site (DotNetNuke), Airheads (online web forum using Drupal and vBulletin), training portal, and three co-branded web portals, and internal websites - corporate intranet (SharePoint 2007), sales intranet (SharePoint 2007) and IT intranet (SharePoint 2013).  ? Managed multi-lingual versions of the corporate website and Airheads.  ? The role involved meeting with the business community, gathering requirements, managing expectations, articulating the requirements to offshore / onsite developers, creating a project plan to track progress and for apprising program sponsorship team, risk mitigation, managing the testing lifecycle and coordinating the project launch.  ? Responsible for leading the CDN implementation project for all Aruba's public facing web sites and portals. This includes: define the problems, putting together a scope of work, evaluate each vendors, stage and test their solutions, going through vendor selection process, provide upper management with the final candidates, provide pros and cons with each candidates and work with both web team and infrastructure team to implement the solutions.  ? Manage and drive the corporate web redesign project to completion within three months.  ? Managed corporate web standards. This includes: define and implement coding standards, development guidelines and documentation requirements for the team.  ? Prepare monthly statistic report for external web, e-mail campaign, promotions, etc.  ? Evaluate and recommend new technology and tools to improve productivity, performance etc.  ? Hands-on experience in designing site templates, publishing content files, managing L1/L2/L3 support queues, coaching developers and training business users.  ? Managed the migration of Linux-based web servers and windows-based servers to Amazon EC2 Web Production Manager Extreme Networks - Santa Clara, CA November 2002 to August 2007 Manage corporate global language sites, three secure web sites and marketing intranet. This includes: maintaining all requests, gathering content and graphics, trafficking marketing content for approval, sending projects to freelancers or producing them in-house and updating district managers.  ? Co-leader for an enterprise-wide web services project. Helped define the business Requirements, 18 Months Road Map, Value Proposition, High Level Architecture and Executive Presentation.  ? Manage and drive the corporate web redesign project to completion within 4 months.  ? Managed corporate web standards. This includes: define and implement coding standards, development guidelines and documentation requirements for the team.  ? Manage third-party applications. This includes: working closely with CRM and other ASPs to define a long-term strategy and plan around integrating the platforms.  ? Prepare monthly statistic report for external web, e-mail campaign, promotions, etc.  ? Evaluate and recommend new technology and tools to improve productivity, performance etc.    Web Producer Extreme Networks - Santa Clara, CA December 2000 to November 2002 Interpret content and design layout requests to update or correct content/formatting on both corporate and marketing intranet.  ? Work cross-functionally with designers, content writers, project managers, and other contributors to ensure web content changes are release on-time with a high level of customer satisfaction.  ? Update, modify and correct graphical design elements, including navigation and names images; Correct or recreate graphical files that are incomplete, outdated or missing; create headers; handle any other graphical requests.  ? Write and utilize HTML, ASP and CSS to add/modify features to better fit into the sites' structure as necessary.  ? QA websites and other products as they are released. Ensure company's web sites meet established standards, including graphics, content, and performance.  ? Develop email creative with marketing or sales and producing or freelancing out the HTML and text email, routing for approval, and preparing the final files for transmission. Lead Web Designer Cloudpop / FirstRegistry - San Carlos, CA August 1999 to December 2000 Responsible for the front-end design of the site using graphic tools and hand coding HTML and JavaScript within ASP and HTML pages.  ? Create graphic materials like animated banners, logos, icons, button, graphic images and flash intro and optimized graphic size to enhance load time.  ? Design dynamic templates for eCommerce applications utilizing server side includes and browser compatibility standards which are in use on over 50 websites.  ? Create dynamic web pages using ASP and CSS technology.  ? Collaborate with marketing, product development and external consultants to develop prototypes, gain approval, and lead the design and development of web sites.  ? Work with the operations team to coordinate migrations, work with QA team to insure quality of release, and participated in the release to production.  ? Managed the work of junior web designers.  ? Ensure that the overall user experience is coherent and consistent. Web Designer ARSYS Innotech Inc - Fremont, CA July 1998 to December 1999 Design, create, and maintain internal and external web sites.  ? Create graphic materials like animated banners, logos, icons, button and graphic images.  ? Responsible for on-line marketing by using web submission tools, banner exchange program, classified ads, and online tracking system.  ? Collaborate with internal content providers and external consultants to bring their content to life on the web, creating pages that maintain clear navigation and site organization.  ? Work with IS department to identify, design, and implement technical solutions for new product and site development. Web Developer DYNAEON Corporation - Fremont, CA July 1997 to June 1998 Design, maintaining and modifying company website.  ? Create graphic materials for company's website.  ? Manage on-line marketing campaign using submission tools, banner exchange program.  ? Work with the entire team on requirements for programs, partners, products, PR, making the necessary additions and revisions, proactively suggesting how objectives can be met, with creative and suitable proposals.  ? Responsible for online marketing (submission to search engines, banner advertisements and generate daily traffic report.) Education Bachelor of Science degree in Business Administration in Marketing California State University of Hayward - Hayward, CA June 1998 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/edwardchao