IT MANAGER IT MANAGER IT MANAGER - REPUBLIC TAX RELIEF Fontana, CA Work Experience IT MANAGER REPUBLIC TAX RELIEF - Corona, CA January 2019 to Present PHP, SQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Photoshop, API integrations, Metadata, MVC Frameworks, Handlebar  Templates, Smarty Templates, JavaScript Controllers) Full-time    • Maintain essential IT operations, including operating systems, security tools, applications,  servers, software, and hardware  • Own projects, solutions, and key responsibilities within a larger business initiative  • Handle business-critical IT tasks and systems administration  • Oversee network administration, including firewalls, telephony, and network switch  • Manage help desk  • Analyze and audit department needs, identify vulnerabilities, and boost productivity, efficiency  and accuracy to inform business decisions  • Continuously evaluate current process, technologies, and vendors to identify areas of improvement and recommend/implement improved workflows  • Train employees on both software and hardware, troubleshoot, and provide technical support  when needed  • Help develop and administer CMS (contact management system) for sales, customer support,  billing and management teams. PHOTOGRAPHER, FREELANCE Canon - Fontana, CA July 2017 to Present CA  Canon, Photoshop, Lightroom) Part-time job  • Communicate with clients in a timely and friendly manner to handle booking and pricing  negotiation.  • Actively engage with clients during shoots to create a comfortable atmosphere and enjoyable  experience.  • Operate a Canon EOS 80D DSLR camera to carry out shoots.  • Operate a Canon EOS 5D Mark IV DSLR camera to carry out shoots.  • Edit photos in Adobe Photoshop CC and Lightroom CC.  • Meet deadlines for editing and delivering digital copies of photos.  • Market brand on social media platforms to build client-base.    4 WEB DESIGNER, FREELANCE Fontana, CA July 2002 to Present PHP, HTML, CSS, XHTML, Flash, and ColdFusion) Part-time job  • Maintained existing websites through the implementation of new functionalities and software  tools in updating the web and adapting to the changing environment.  • Created new websites to replace old ones and make the website more attractive and user  friendly.  • Designed and developed new applications on owner's request.  • Maintained existing databases by ensuring that database is safe from hackers and unauthorized  access  • Created new databases, and managed database security and backup procedures  • Designed company logos, flyers, postcards and business cards using Photoshop. IT MANAGER / WEB MASTER FX CABINETS WAREHOUSE - Industry, CA May 2018 to December 2018 PHP, Photoshop, Illustrator, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Windows Server 2012, In Design, Adobe  Premier, Adobe Lightroom) Full-time    IMPROVE FX CABINETS WAREHOUSE THROUGH BETTER IT SOLUTIONS  • Manage information technology and computer systems.  • Plan, organize, control and evaluate IT and electronic data operations.  • Help staff by training and coaching employees, communicating job duties and help them  increase their performance.  • Design, develop, implement and coordinate systems, policies and procedures.  • Ensure security of data, network access and backup systems.  • Act in alignment with user needs and system functionality to contribute to organizational  policy.  • Identify problematic areas and implement strategic solutions in time.  • Audit systems and assess their outcomes.  • Preserve assets, information security and control structures.  • Handle annual budget and ensure cost effectiveness.    IMPROVE FX CABINETS WAREHOUSE THROUGH BETTER SERVER SOLUTIONS  • Install and configure software and hardware  • Manage network servers and technology tools  • Set up accounts and workstations  • Monitor performance and maintain systems according to requirements  • Troubleshoot issues and outages  • Ensure security through access controls, backups and firewalls  • Upgrade systems with new releases and models  • Develop expertise to train staff on new technologies  • Build an internal wiki with technical documentation, manuals and IT policies    IMPROVE FX CABINETS WAREHOUSE THROUGH BETTER WEB DESIGN SOLUTIONS  • Identify user and system requirements for new websites and applications  • Prioritize software development projects, set timelines.  • Create wireframes to decide on new layouts for better website performance and speed  • Write or review code for various applications  • Run functionality testing and debug code  • Decide on UI/UX elements (like graphics and navigation buttons)  • Ensure our software documentation is up-to-date  • Build mobile-responsive website for better performance and loading speed    IMPROVE FX CABINETS WAREHOUSE THROUGH BETTER GRAPHIC SOLUTIONS  • Oversee all design projects, from conception to delivery  • Design original pieces, including illustrations and infographics  • Refine images, fonts and layouts using graphic design software  • Generate ideas to portray concepts and advertise products/services  • Increase user friendliness in digital products  • Maintain brand consistency throughout all our marketing projects  • Stay up-to-date with industry developments and tools    IMPROVE FX CABINETS WAREHOUSE THROUGH BETTER SEO SOLUTIONS  • Conduct keyword research using various tools (like Keyword Planner and Moz)  • Perform competitive analysis and identify gaps in our content or areas of improvement in our  web design  • Track important SEO metrics including organic traffic, conversion rates and time spent on page  • Update older content and add effective calls to action (CTAs) to improve user engagement  • Report on performance metrics comparing them to our SEO goals and benchmarking data  • Optimize pages for mobile  • Implement link building strategies and manage backlinks to build online authority  • Monitor paid search campaigns  • Follow SEO trends and stay up-to-date with new tools and practices SR. WEB DESIGNER CLDMV.NET - Upland, CA July 2013 to May 2018 UPLAND, CA  (PHP, Photoshop, Illustrator, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, LAMP, Apache) Full-time  • Maintain existing websites by updating necessary designs and information as required.  • Lead and supervise the creation of new websites using Photoshop.  • Implement site until completion after the initial creation of the sites  • Monitor and solve day-to-day problems as they arise and develop prevention mechanism.    2  • Maintain existing databases to ensure optimum security and accuracy of information  • Created new databases.  • Design company logos, flyers, postcards and business cards, using photoshop.  • Implement new functionalities, as well as Create new websites to replace old ones.  • Managed a team of designers to produce site graphics that adhered to business objectives SR. WEB DESIGNER OSC WEB DEV - Chino, CA November 2011 to June 2013 PHP, Photoshop, Illustrator, HTML, CSS, JavaScript) Full-time  • Maintained existing websites by updating necessary designs and information as required.  • Led and supervised the creation of new websites using Photoshop.  • Implemented site until completion after the initial creation of the sites  • Monitored and solved day-to-day problems as they arise develop prevention mechanism  • Maintained existing databases to ensure optimum security and accuracy of information  • Created new databases.  • Designed company logos, flyers, postcards and business cards, using Photoshop  • Implemented new functionalities, as well as Create new websites to replace old ones. SR. WEB DEVELOPER JE COMPLIANCE - Rancho Cucamonga, CA August 2008 to February 2013 ASP.NET, VB, SharePoint, SQL Photoshop, Illustrator, HTML, CSS, JavaScript) Full-time  • Maintained existing websites by implementing new functionalities and software tools.  • Conducted the migration of old WSS2 application into a WSS3 version of Microsoft SharePoint.  • Created new environmental SharePoint applications.  • Developed ASP.NET, JavaScript, and SQL in windows 2003 using Microsoft SharePoint.  • Developed code to scrape data from internal sites such as environmental information from companies, wrote code to build applications for the clients to manage their own environmental  status and create administrative reports.  • Developed InfoPath code to build real-time reports of the company's environmental problems.  • Redesigned sections of the website to ensure a more attractive and user-friendly experience  • Monitor and solve day-to-day problems as they arise and develop prevention mechanism. SR. WEB DEVELOPER FIRST TUESDAY - Riverside, CA July 2007 to July 2008 ColdFusion, MSSQL, CSS and JavaScript) Full-time  • Maintained existing websites by redesigning sections of the website to ensure a more  attractive and user-friendly experience  • Improve the maintenance efficiency by reconstructing official website with modern technologies  and framework  • Conducted the migration of an old MS Access application into a MSSQL version.  • Created new financial and inventory applications using ColdFusion.  • Developed ColdFusion, JavaScript, and SQL in windows 2003 running ColdFusion 7.  • Developed code to build real-time tables of financial profit, and an application that will  automatically do inventory as items are purchased, this would correct errors made by humans.  • Prioritized and fixed site-related design problems and took the initiative to implement new  features based on feedback from users. DATABASE ENGINEER PANASONIC AVIONICS CORP - Lake Forest, CA April 2006 to July 2007 MSSQL, XML and Visual Basic) Full-time job  • Maintained existing databases by redesigning sections of the website to ensure a more  attractive and user-friendly experience    3  • Improve the maintenance efficiency by reconstructing official website with modern  technologies and framework  • Created automated application to create XML datasheets using excel and VB.  • Designed, programmed and maintained XML datasheets connected to SQL 2008 databases.  • Created data models, solution designs and data architecture documentation for complex  information systems.  • Performed extensive query tuning using SQL Profiler to contribute to key application  performance indicators.  • Developed Excel datasheets for automatically generation of database information, with the information gathered create an automated XML datasheet that contains the information that  goes into the entertainment simulators inside the plane.  • Developed Excel applications to connect XML data sheets with SQL databases using VBA  script. SR WEB DESIGNER KWI TECHNOLOGY INC - Walnut, CA April 2004 to April 2006 CSS, HTML, JavaScript) Full-time job  • Maintained existing websites by updating necessary designs and information as required.  • Maintained existing databases by ensuring that database is safe from hackers and unauthorized access  • Created new website, increased company popularity by 35%.  • Performed Web Design and implementation using JavaScript CSS and HTML.  • Created backend site to manage front end when new products were available anyone in the company could put them on the website. Education BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION in Internet Programming and Security CAL POLY POMONA 2008 Skills PHP, CSS, Javascript, MYSQL Assessments Problem Solving — Highly Proficient December 2018 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jd6pw2nwmdt8ll3u Attention to Detail Skills — Proficient December 2018 Measures a candidate’s ability to use diligence when drafting and editing documents. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vkky84espbsdkhqg Search Engine Optimization — Highly Proficient December 2018 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qoldgaxhnwyzdg7p Graphic Design Skills — Familiar December 2018 Measures a candidate's ability to create visual media to effectively communicate information and concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/rqoqhw6pemhkrczn Intermediate Spreadsheet Proficiency with Microsoft Excel — Familiar December 2018 Measures a candidate's knowledge of intermediate Microsoft Excel techniques including effectively writing and applying conditional formulas. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/yjy-ubqpdrn-dch0 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.