Web Developer, Project Director, Consultant <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>, Project Director, Consultant Web Developer Waco, TX Work Experience Web Developer, Project Director, Consultant Blake/An Illustrated Quarterly Issue Archive, William Blake Archive 2013 to Present • Planned, built, and maintained a website delivering 50 years' worth of articles on schedule.  • Used Google Analytics, search tool, and index to direct site traffic to relevant content.  • Tested and troubleshot code to optimize user experience.  • Developed custom scripts to optimize site (e.g., checking for missing images and broken links).  • Trained internal team and worked collaboratively using written and in-person communication skills. Web Developer Studio for Instructional Technology in English Studies, UNC Chapel Hill 2011 to 2013 • Refined pre-existing websites and built new projects with cross-browser/cross-platform design and functionality.  • Coordinated problem-solving with fellow team members to satisfy customer goals. Interactive Developer Journey Group 2008 to 2011 • Built responsive websites from scratch and with existing technology, for clients ranging from Habitat for Humanity to the US Postal Service.  • Tested and troubleshot websites to ensure cross-browser/cross-platform design and functionality.  • Used Google Analytics to direct traffic to relevant content.  • Used written and in-person communication to work cross-organizationally with internal design and development team and with external client teams. Education Graduate Certificate in Digital Humanities in Digital Humanities University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill - Chapel Hill, NC May 2016 Ph.D. in English University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill - Chapel Hill, NC May 2016 M.A. in English University of Virginia May 2011 B.A. in English Wheaton College - Illinois, US May 2006 Skills Javascript, Wordpress, PHP, Front End, Angular, Angularjs, Jquery, HTML5 Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  HTML5, CSS3  Javascript, jQuery, AJAX  Google Analytics  WordPress, Drupal  PHP, MySQL  Solr, XML/TEI, XSLT, XQuery  Git  Photoshop, Acrobat Pro