Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Seeking Analyst Role San Jose, CA I've worked in web development for 20+ years now seeking to transition to an analyst role. Work Experience Web Developer Apple February 2017 to Present Building two separate web tools for the User Experience team. First is a CRM-like tool that allows the research team to track study volunteer participants in the research studies. This is built in Laravel PHP framework with Postgres database deployed to internal Heroku-like service. Files encrypted and stored on AWS S3-like service. UI built using Apple Standards templates, built in HTML and CSS with SASS preprocessor. Interaction layer is jQuery with an eye towards VUE.js. The second tool is a lightweight CMS for an Apple Icon library. This tool allows a curator to create icon concepts and upload the associated images. This CMS is built in PHP sans framework with Postgres database deployed to internal Heroku-like service. Files are also stored on AWS S3-like service with optional encryption as determined by curator. UI is HTML with CSS and jQuery.  - https://ux.apple.com Contract Application Developer NextEV web properties to new brand NIO. Developed microsites October 2016 to February 2017 Helped brand transition launch of NextEV web properties to new brand NIO. Developed microsites in HTML, CSS, and Drupal on Docker deployed to AWS. Built PHP microservice for email lead gen capture to store in Elastic backend. Also created prototype chatbot in Node on WeChat for staff to easily get updates on helpdesk tickets. Contract Web Services Engineer Apple Standards September 2015 to July 2016 Helped develop new version of TSTT result tracking dashboard tool, in React and PHP with Postgres backend. As well as maintained legacy codebase across full-stack. Updated reporting via improved SQL queries. Also developed full-stack radar ownership dashboard tool with SQLite and React. Web Developer Apple Standards January 2012 to October 2014 With the Apple Retail Real Estate Operations Systems team, I helped design & build the entire stack of our internal web based tool. I designed & implemented the first major revision of user interface using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. The UI also leveraged Bootstrap and KendoUI. The tool was built on the CodeIgniter PHP framework with a MySQL database which I coordinated design and development of. I implemented security in the base class to ensure all requests were processed through this security check. The security system was backed by MySQL. I also administered the Linux servers and was responsible for interfacing with Retail Technology Infrastructure team for support issues. Additionally, I was responsible for data development and analysis of our dataset. This dataset housed information related to the construction, maintenance, and operational sales of stores. I was responsible for creating ad-hoc reports on this data for the team and leadership for analysis of proposed store re-designs and store development progress. Contract UI Developer Coulomb Technologies September 2011 to January 2012 now called ChargePoint, I was brought in on a temp basis to help construct the user interface of a customer facing web portal. Technologies used were JavaScript/jQuery, responsive HTML5 and CSS3, and PHP integrated with RESTful API's and MySQL databases. I created dynamic interface to display information about charging stations available to fleet owners. I also designed user interface concepts/prototypes for user testing and slides for VC demo pitches. UI Developer Human Interface Group August 2010 to September 2011 Palm's proprietary mobile device operating system, webOS, was built on web technologies, HTML/CSS/JavaScript. Within the Human Interface Group, I was responsible for using the front-end technologies to develop absolute, pixel perfect, user interfaces for various devices. Working with visual designers and software engineers, I was point of contact for several applications such as Photos & Videos, Notes, and Kindle to facilitate collaboration and to translate engineering needs and requirements with design needs and requirements. Contract Web Developer Apple Standards July 2009 to July 2010 The HR Technology group within Apple HR is responsible for providing internal company wide web based tools/information. I along with another contributed with the first re-design of AppleWeb. I created an interactive JavaScript slider to display daily information, a live updating world clock in 12 & 24-hour format. I also helped develop mobile web apps to display shuttle schedules for several campus cafe's using JavaScript. Also built an internal but externally accessible web app that allowed Apple Retail Store employees to search for job openings at other locations. This tool I built in PHP connected to an internal border-zone server using client SSL certificates to request a SOAP XML feed that I parsed to display results in HTML/CSS. Contract Web Developer Cisco October 2008 to July 2009 - HTML/CSS development of product pages for Cisco.com  - Early mobile development of product pages  - Trained web marketing team members on CSS Web Developer WeBook October 2006 to October 2008 - HTML/CSS pixel perfect cross-browser implementation of visual design integrated with .NET  - JavaScript interactivity for one-off pages like http://www.webook.com/911writersblock Education Bachelor's Skills DOCKER, Git, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, REACTJS, PHP, CODEIGNITER, LARAVEL, PYTHON, Ruby, nginx, WEB DESIGN, MYSQL, POSTGRESQL, UI, jQuery, HTML5, DEVOPS, MONGODB, APACHE