Contractor Contractor Contractor - Clark County I am a very hard working, conscientious and dedicated person. I enjoy the  challenges that developing software presents and I am not afraid to embrace  new technologies and methodologies. I believe in the importance of being a  friendly and constructive member of the team and I am willing to share my  ideas and listen to others. I have worked for both large and small startup  companies and wherever I have worked I have also had a positive influence. Work Experience Contractor Clark County January 2018 to Present I was given the responsibility for replacing the old Clark County system with a new MVC web application to handle the Board of Equalization hearings. Which  runs from November to the end of February. I am responsible for all the development and design including the creation of the database and the Stored  Procedures. SENIOR WEB DEVELOPER DAVITA (USA) May 2017 to August 2017 Permanent Laid Off)  I was working on an MVC web application to keep track of medical staff and the location they were working at. It could also keep track of the hours they  had worked and reassign them to another location. This was a drag and drop  application. GAMES DEVELOPER, MICROSOFT FREELANCE (FRANCE) Whilst I February 2015 to February 2017 was waiting for my Green Card, I applied to Microsoft and received a contract as a nonpaying employee. I developed three games for the now  defunct mobile platform and had over two thousand downloads. All games  were created using the Unity Game Engine and Blender. Contractor XRM (USA) February 2016 to January 2017 I was employed to create bespoke applications that couldn't be done by the internal staff. My first project was as plugin for Microsoft Dynamic 365 that  allowed their clients to create and send embedded documents to Sig nix for digital signatures. I also created a plugin for Word that could sent a document for digital signing. SENIOR WEB DEVELOPER REG TRANSFERS (UK) May 2012 to February 2015 Permanent)  This company sold personalized automobile license plates. I developed a Web  Service that site scraped our competitors' websites for their plate prices. I  helped convert their main site from asp classic to MVC. WEB DEVELOPER, FREELANCE (FRANCE) May 2012 to February 2015 I helped local Relators develop their web presence to attract a larger  audience both home and abroad. I also developed CMS system to give them  greater autonomy. Contractor CLIFFORD CHANCE (UK) May 2005 to March 2009 I was employed to maintain and develop their internal web application that  incepted and handled all new legal matters worldwide. Education HNC De 'Havilland College Welwyn Garden City Computer Studies Institute of Supervisory Management Skills Mvc, Wpf, Bootstrap, Ood, Sql