Freelance Web Developer Freelance <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Freelance Web Developer - COLOREDGE Chappaqua, NY Work Experience Freelance Web Developer COLOREDGE - New York, NY August 2016 to Present • Collect, define and translate user requirements into project designs and implement web-based graphic order fulfillment solution to support complex workflows in online ordering and print procurement.  • Design and implement online retail tracking tool that provides client administrators with detail information that can track the history of graphic change-outs with proof of installs in stores.  • Develop digital assets management tools that enable uploading and indexing media content.  • Test websites and perform troubleshooting prior to deployment. Senor Web Developer PEEQ MEDIA - New York, NY August 2006 to June 2016 • Designed and implemented database driven web applications that generate customizable advertising materials for Verizon's sales representatives and store managers nationwide using PHP, MySQL, AJAX and HTML.  • Worked directly with clients from requirements gathering through website deployment.  • Programmed and maintained marketing material portals to support functions such as Print-On-Demand, order tracking and customizable templates.  • Designed and maintained sales, user and product databases.  • Created interface for clients to update and maintain product feature and pricing information.  • Debugged programs, built MySQL queries, supported and maintained existing applications with regards to bug fixes and troubleshooting as well as functionality additions and modifications. Web Developer CYBERSCRUB LLC - Alpharetta, GA December 2003 to August 2006 • Provided design, development and support of Internet, extranet and intranet web based applications and their backend.  • Provided database support for the implementation and management of sales database.  • Programmed a variety of customer service, user and maintenance tools that dealt with database interaction, internet access, and statistical processing.  • Collected data on web user behaviors and website traffic, work with management to implement improvements to increase traffic and site stickiness.  • Analyzed, strategized and reported on most popular search terms.  • Worked with marketing director to create html email campaigns.  • Established website standardizations and flow, and maintained site's consistent look and feel. Education M.S SCHOOL OF INFORMATICS / INDIANA UNIVERSITY - Bloomington, IN January 2002 to May 2003 Skills Javascript, Node.js, Php, Laravel, Mysql, Html5, Mvc, Apache, Linux, Unix, jquery, Server administration, Illustrator, Team player, Photoshop, Indesign, Problem solving, Front End, HTML, Bootstrap