Administrative Assistant Administrative Assistant Administrative Assistant - Urban Chamber of Commerce Las Vegas, NV Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Administrative Assistant Urban Chamber of Commerce - Las Vegas, NV March 2019 to Present ? Greeted customers, answered phones, and addressed customer  answering phones, greeting  needs in a timely fashion  customers, filing, and  ? Managed member records in Chamber Master and Quickbooks  bookkeeping  ? Answered emails  ? Guided potential members through the benefits of membership Proficient with MS Word, MS  and answered all questions Excel, and Google Docs  ? Issued invoices, entered sales receipts, and processed payments Capable of learning new  in Quickbooks software easily  ? Created flyers for events in Canva  ? Data entry Able to troubleshoot    ? Managed tasks with Basecamp computer and technical    ? Updated website through Chamber Master CMS problems    ? Scanned, copied, and filed documents HTML, CSS, & PHP  ? Event preparation and management  Clean driving record Web Designer/ Developer Bridal Association of America - Bakersfield, CA April 2016 to December 2017 LANGUAGES  ? Developed Wordpress plugins to meet company's needs  ? Developed Wordpress themes for company websites  English  ? Updated database with active members  ? Troubleshooted website problems  American Sign Language  ? Worked with hosting company to address issues  ? Wrote and designed forms and publications used for promotions  and sales Draftsman Bakersfield, CA January 2008 to October 2010 Drafted construction blueprints in AutoCAD  ? Performed engineering calculations under the supervision of the engineer of record  ? Performed energy calculations  ? Answered phones and greeted clients  ? Maintained and troubleshooted local server and workstations Web Designer Just Johnsons - Bakersfield, CA October 2006 to December 2007 Designed websites for clients  ? Supervised and delegated assignments to trainees  ? Assisted employees with special needs  ? Trained employees in HTML and CSS Office Assistant PC Makers - Bakersfield, CA May 2002 to September 2006 Basic Bookkeeping in Quickbooks  ? Nightly deposits to bank  ? Filed, answered telephones and transferred calls to correct  department  ? Created promotional publications in Microsoft Publisher  ? Assisted customers with purchases  ? Intake and release of computers for repair and completion of proper paperwork  ? Opened and closed store  ? Janitorial maintenance of sales floor and office Education Bakersfield College - Bakersfield, CA Diploma Bakersfield Christian High School - Bakersfield, CA Skills Administrative Assistant, Outlook, Receptionist, Accounts Payable, Word, Billing, Microsoft Excel Certifications/Licenses Driver's License