WCS Developer WCS <span class="hl">Developer</span> WCS Austin, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience WCS Developer HP - Austin, TX January 2014 to Present With HP's B2B & B2C portal, the purchasing experience is quick, easy, and tailored to customer's needs.  Responsibilities: -  • Responsible for development, programming, production support and development of stores and projects for various clients using Web Sphere Commerce 7.0 and 8.0, SOLR, Dynacache (data cache) and other J2EE technologies.  • Work with team members using the Scrum methodology to deliver on-time, production-ready projects.  • Designed and developed user interface elements to support call center business processes.  • Designed and developed backend business logic to support call center business processes.  • Designed catalog and data load processes to take existing ERP data and load into the Commerce database.  • Developed web service integrations for continuous maintenance and loading of delta updates to catalog, gift registry, and member subsystems.  • Provided technical lead on all architecture decisions and their implementations.  • Migrated from Web Sphere Commerce 7.0 environment to Web Sphere Commerce 8.0 Environment. Web Sphere Commerce Developer Petco - San Diego, CA October 2012 to November 2013 Petco Animal Supplies is a largest pet retailer that sells pets as well as pet products and services  Responsibilities:-  • Responsible for the ongoing development and maintenance of catalog and search pages.  • Provided technical expertise and insight to resolve and fix issues found on previously deployed web site.  • Supervised the development, configuration, and launch of 50+ domestic and international stores for all company owned brands.  • Responsible for the deployment and publishing of assets for all WebSphere Commerce enabled stores.  • Responsible for all maintenance and administration of WebSphere Application Server instances.  • Responsible for all backend architecture, programming, and development in WebSphere Commerce.  • Developed back-end ERP integrations.  • Developed and maintained various enterprise applications using Java, J2EE, Struts, solr, spring, and other Java technologies. WCS Developer Tractor Supply - Nashville, TN June 2007 to August 2012 Tractor Supply Company is a large retail chain of stores that offers products for home improvement, agriculture, lawn and garden maintenance, and livestock, equine and pet care.  Responsibilities: -  As a WCS Developer, I was responsible for:  • Involved in the requirement gathering and requirement analysis.  • Involved in designing High Level Design (HLD) and Low Level Design (LLD) documents, POC  • Mentoring team member on WCS concepts and building applications.  • Worked on Catalog Subsystem for customizing catalog navigations, product associations for merchandising that include cross-sell and up-sells.  • Data load utility for Catalog, Prices and Members. Worked on full and delta loads.  • Worked on Member subsystem for creating Organizations, Users, Profile management, Access Control Policies and Authorization for member groups.  • Worked on customization of Organization Administration Console and Lob tools.  • Worked on customization of WebSphere Commerce Search including creating custom facets, custom profile creation, and creating Management Center activities to influence Search and SOLR indexing.  • Worked on Marketing Subsystem for creating e-Marketing Spots, content spots and Web activities.  • Implementation of Visual search, it is a customization for including different JSP / HTML pages to enable VS.  • Coordinating daily scrum calls with client.  • Designed and implemented Internationalization in webstore to support multiple languages and currencies  • Designed and implemented multiple credit card payments in web store.  • Implemented commerce commands for customizing business requirement. Developed new Task commands and Controller commands.  • Developed Entity Beans and Access Beans and View beans to support data retrieval and persistence of the new custom logic.  • Worked on Integration of various plugin's like Cyber source AVS, Cyber source payment, PayPal and SOLR. Education BTech Meerut University - Delhi, Delhi 2005 Skills WCS (8 years), Websphere commerce (8 years), Web sphere commerce (8 years), Solr (8 years), ibm wcs (8 years) Additional Information Skills: -  Web Sphere Commerce 8.0/7.0/6.0/5.6.1  • Developed B2B, B2C solutions  • Developed customizations for Web Sphere Commerce (Commands, Dynacache, Tasks, EJBs, SDOs, Web Services, SOLR) using Rational Application Developer  • Integrated Web Sphere Commerce with back-end ERP systems using middleware such as Web Sphere MQ and web services.  • Designed catalog load system to extract data from legacy system and load Web Sphere Commerce system  • Experience in delivery of B2C and B2B solutions.  • Designed catalog load system to extract data from legacy system and load Web Sphere Commerce system  • Develop application based on common design patters such as Model-View-Controller, Command Pattern, Servlets, and Data Access Objects  • Good command of open source frameworks such as Struts and Spring (Spring Source)    Web Development: JavaScript, HTML, CSS and JSTL  J2EE: -- Web application development using the JSPs, Servlets, EJBs, Web Services, Struts, and Spring  Databases: - DB2, Oracle, SQL Server, and MySQL  Web Services:- WSDL, XSD, XML, REST, SOAP  Source Control: CVS, SVN, Mercurial, Git  • Google Web Toolkit (GWT), AJAX, Magneto, Code Igniter, JSON