Personal Assistant Personal Assistant Flushing, MI sixteen years in the software industry working within multiple technologies and a focus on software quality, including test automation and test and requirements management. Execute company goals to reduce application development and operating costs, increase the flexibility and value of information technology, and better manage the risks inherent to open-systems development and deployment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Personal Assistant Flushing, MI December 2015 to Present Moved to Flushing MI, helping my mother take care of my step father and grand mother as well as taking over inside maintenance and outside maintenance of the home. Worked briefly at Signal Group LLC as a Lead Software Developer in 2016. Software/ Web Developer Nextep Systems April 2015 to September 2015 Developed solutions in ASP.NET and WPF utilizing C# code behind, XML, XAML, ASPX markup and SQL server for a multitiered POS system that allowed clients to utilize POS terminals in store to submit and transact orders which utilized a WPF UI. The system also allowed for authorized users to login to an ASP.NET website and perform employee scheduling, view various reports, track and submit payroll to third party processors, track inventory and various other functions.    ? Developed a new module, for managers, to enter messages or notes from the POS UI to track various interests of daily actions. Messages were saved locally within XML files so that they could be updated until submitted to the web based system where they were then stored to an SQL database and could then allowed to be viewed in the reporting section of the web UI.    ? Developed a module to report employee overtime amounts by single employee or location. This module allowed clients to better track outgoing expenses and adjust schedules accordingly to help avoid unnecessary overages from payroll. Web Technologies Developer Great Expressions Dental Centers LLC August 2013 to January 2015 Lead web developer utilizing MVC 4 and 4.5 with Razor markup with C# and J Query front end and SQL Server 2012 databases. Responsible for database design, creation and maintenance, all front end implementation as well as CSS3 styling. Worked on VB.NET applications when needed.    ? Designed and implemented a new Provider Portal for Doctors to access their compensation information as well as viewing technical news, company newsletters, incomplete treatment amounts, personal documents and credentialing information using MVC and SQL Server.    ? Designed and Implemented a reporting application for newly acquired offices to report their daily treatment numbers and patient totals while the office was being integrated into our internal systems utilizing MVC and SQL Server.    ? Designed and Implemented an MVC mobile application for regional managers to review offices to ensure that they were up to standards. the application was dynamic to allow for easy updates to categories that resided in the database for rating and commenting as well as uploading images from mobile devices that support fileupload controls.    ? Created a pure HTML and Javascript application to allow for video training for new internal employees which was posted to an existing internal web application.    ? Created, designed and implemented a new module for an existing internal application utilizing VB.NET that allowed office personnel and doctors to view their credentialing information. The application also allowed the credentialing team to enter and edit credentials on a bulk and individual basis. This module replaced and existing module in an ASP application that was deemed inadequate and cumbersome. Senior Developer CareTech Solutions - Troy, MI February 2012 to August 2013 Developed a new website utilizing ASP.NET with C# for a new client, MetroHealth, which included the development of multiple new CareWorks CMS application modules and incorporated a responsive design.  ? Implemented Agile methodologies utilizing Rally for project efficiency that had not previously been used.  ? Developed a new 'Find a Physician' module that utilizes multiple console applications to pull in new physician data using web services to populate the data into newly created tables. The data is then bound to the front end using a newly created MVVM architecture which utilizes the Entity Framework and LINQ to Entities. This new structure allowed for development to start before any UI design aspects had been completed.  ? Began development for a new HealthCare library module in which the data is fed from a third party vendor. The new library utilizes ADAM health information and is parsed via xml into CMS pages.  ? Customized existing Policy and Forms modules to fit client needs.  ? Developed a new CareWorks CMS module that allows end users to create new websites based on existing sites by using the existing site structure as a template by simply selecting the site design within the CMS, optionally uploading or selecting a new logo and clicking a button. The new module is currently named 'OneClick' because of its ease of use. The module automates changing of all existing urls and site design numbers by parsing each new pages content so that when the process is completed the site is 100% useable as a new website.  ? Developed a new mobile site for Barnes Jewish College Goldfarb School of Nursing. All existing mobile modules had to be redeveloped to fit the client's needs, including maps and directions and all search capabilities. http://m.barnesjewishcollege.edu  ? Upgraded the existing live Barnes Jewish College Goldfarb School of Nursing website to utilize and newer version of the CareWorks CMS including many customizations to fit the client's previous instance. These customizations included changes to the 'Video Library', 'Events', 'News' and 'Structured Search' modules. http://www.barnesjewishcollege.edu/  ? Created multiple new sites for BJC Healthcare including Progressive GI & Hepatology Specialists, Annual Community Benefit Report, BJC Medical Group and Chesterfield Primary Care. http://www.progressivegi.org/  http://communitybenefit.bjc.org/  http://www.bjcmedicalgroup.org/  http://www.bjcchesterfieldprimarycare.org/  All sites were created using ASP.NET with C#. DPM Contract EventLink LLC - Sterling Heights, MI May 2011 to February 2012 48314  Lead Developer  ? Designed and implemented proposal designs and mockups for potential web sites and data capture applications for onsite and offsite usage for customers such as BMW, Porsche, Chrysler, GM and AllState Insurance. These projects included the usage of AJAX Control ToolKit, Google Earth with SketchUP 8 modeling, Card Scanning Solutions DL sdk, DYMO Label sdk, Dundas Charting Gauges and Maps and Facebook APIs.  ? Advised on development best practices and technological roadmapping including the use of Agile methodologies utilizing Rally for product development.  ? Designed and developed two separate inventory systems used to track inventory between multiple events with the ability to create "load out" lists so that the customer could create spreadsheets for the warehouse based on existing inventory to send to new events. The systems utilized ASP.NET, AJAX and an SQL repository.  ? Designed multiple kiosk interfaces for data capture utilizing ASP.NET, AJAX, SilverLight 5 and SQL Server containing multiple interfaces for various scanning and printing devices for use on remote touch screen devices.  ? Designed and began implementation on a multi tier CRM system to provide real time statistical updates via a new customer portal for onsite event data capture which included social media integration, multi-party event logistical management and the ability to integrate and upload load data into second party systems. The system relied heavily on real time updates utilizing web services. Systems Developer II Micro Focus - Troy, MI June 2009 to May 2011 Acted as interim Team Leader in the absence of the Project Manager providing guidance to developers and technical support.  ? Worked closely with Product Management to define and implement stories and tasks in three week sprints in coordination with a co-development group overseas.  ? Responsible for development and maintenance of multiple software automation products written in C++, C#, VB and Java  ? Performed feature migration and rebranding across products to enhance and upgrade product functionality.  ? Developed and maintained integrations for Visual Studio Team System 2003, 2008 and 2010 beta, and Microsoft Office applications, utilizing C++, COM and VB.NET.  ? Developed application automation objects and integration for WinForms and WPF applications utilizing C++, COM and C#.  ? Researched product improvement for Silverlight integration for client automated testing. Software Developer Compuware Corporation - One Campus Martius - Detroit, MI November 2000 to June 2009 Lead Developer for multiple localization and internationalization projects responsible for working with multiple third party locations to ensure proper delivery and implementation. Developed and maintained multiple applications to assist with the implementation process and resource packaging.  ? Assisted in the transition from Waterfall to Agile methodologies.  ? Developed new print and print preview functionality to ensure proper image and text ratios between any print layouts.  ? Optimized data access and record creation for product integration to prevent existing race conditions that could cause data loss and/or corruption.  ? Implemented a new feature for more precise record locking in the database to prevent unwanted data access and overwriting.  ? Implemented new classes to handle communication interruption between various supported database types and the product front end.  ? Worked with third party vendor controls such as CodeJock to subclass and implement a new UI for the entire product.  ? Maintained product integration for all supported technology domains including SAP, Uniface, Java Swing and AWT, various versions of web browsers such as Internet Explorer and Mozilla FireFox, Visual Basic including third party ActiveX controls, .NET WinForms and WPF as well as Flex.  ? Helped to resolve deficiencies in exporting and importing data from the database to flat files using  XML.  ? Performed research for supporting Web Services utilizing ASP.NET and IIS using SOAP and XML.  ? Provided training and assistance to technical support including working with clients during extensive troubleshooting including customer site visits. Education Computer Information Systems Baker College 2000 to 2002 Architecture and Computer Information Systems Oakland Community College 1996 to 2000 Additional Information Skills  Languages C++, Java, SQL, C#, VB  Database SQL Server, Oracle, Access  Scripting VBA, VB, JavaScript, JQuery  Markup HTML 4 & 5, Razor, XAML, XML  Source Control SourceSafe, TFS, Subversion, Mercurial  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall