Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer I am a Front-End Developer with a passion for writing clean, semantically correct, responsive front-end code - bringing designers ideas to life, while promoting UX best practices.  I have strong skills in HTML5, CSS3, SASS, Photoshop, JavaScript, ES6, jQuery, AJAX, JSON and interacting with Restful APIs. Experience with SPAs including Vue, React and Angular 4 front-end frameworks. JSX, TypeScript, Webpack, OOP and cross browser support. Agile trained and well versed in the fast past, multi project atmosphere of software development cycles. Work Experience Web Developer New American Funding May 2018 to February 2019 • Restful API calls to populate the UI on the app using get, put, post and delete.  • JavaScript, ES6, jQuery, OOP, AJAX requests.  • Collaborate with other developers to integrate the UI with back-end services.  • Angular4 coding, Webpack, TypeScript interfaces to ensure data integrity.  • Assist CMS content providers with custom classes and logic to make their job easier.  • Translated design team's UX wireframes and mockups into responsive, interactive  features, using HTML/CSS/SASS and JavaScript. Web Developer Broadbean/CareerBuilder March 2015 to October 2017 • Implemented SASS and flexbox technologies to new and existing pages.  • Created fully animated d3 SVG charts and graphs for data reporting.  • Building out dynamic content from JSON objects being returned via AJAX.  • Authored and maintained client-side code for new and existing sites.  • Work with design team to implement UX best practices and better UI for components.  • Photoshop and InDesign work to assist designers with optimizing images.  • Implementing HTML5 standards to new and existing sites. Web Developer Hyundai (HISNA) October 2013 to March 2015 • Redesigned company website employing responsive design.  • Integrated modules with TeamSite CMS. Train marketing staff on usage of CMS.  • Worked with marketing team to design custom breakpoints for multiple devices.  • Performed programming and content edits to existing web applications. Front End Developer Toshiba August 2013 to October 2013 • Brought in to fix numerous front-end issues for launch of new company site.  • SVG graphic animations.  • Addressed multiple cross browser display and functionality issues to ensure launch of site. Web Production Specialist Pacific Sunwear May 2013 to August 2013 • Daily updates of US and UK shopping sites using WordPress and Demandware.  • Email blasts, ad banners, code optimization.  • SEO optimization. User Interface Engineer iCrossing Inc October 2011 to March 2013 • Support for Mazda.com and Mazda Canada websites.  • jQuery, JavaScript, XML, cross browser compatibility issues.  • CMS page template creation and assistance.  • Omniture tracking, Google analytics. Web Interface Designer 2 Local.com October 2008 to October 2011 • Wrote all front-end code for local.com redesign using best practices at the time.  • Image sprites to reduce number of image calls to speed up performance.  • Cross browser support, jQuery and JavaScript.  • Implemented Spry animated menus, YUI grids. Web Development Engineer Autobytel May 2007 to October 2008 • Responsible for all front-end coding for launch of new MyRide.com site.  • Cross browser support was very primitive, so majority of time was spent battling the monstrosity that was IE6.  • Advanced (at the time) CSS features - sliding doors, rounded corners, etc. Web Developer New Century Mortgage May 2002 to May 2007 • Maintaining company websites and intranet.  • Rewrote front end code to move away from table-based layouts.  • Create style guides to ensure proper company branding followed on all sites. Skills CONTENT MANAGEMENT (3 years), FRONT-END (10+ years), Git, JAVASCRIPT (9 years), BOOTSTRAP (5 years), Jquery (5 years), HTML5 (5 years), Wordpress, Front End (10+ years), css (10+ years), CSS3 (7 years), JSON (5 years), Vue (1 year), React (1 year), SASS (3 years), Flexbox (2 years), CSS grids (1 year), Ajax (5 years)