Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Support Analyst - SELECTION.COM Cincinnati, OH An IT Professional with over a decade experience. Developed in-house custom applications to manage and monitor IT incidents, equipment inventory, and document procedures for a medical billing firm. Maintained and upgraded client integrations with background check data storage systems. Work Experience Developer SELECTION.COM September 2015 to Present • Maintenance of SQL and C# applications for background check system in an agile environment  • Maintained and refactored portions of the Fastrax® web application  • Created open link service for use with Fastrax® applicant entry  • Built custom integration for clients using the Virtus integration service  • Update integration services with clients  • Client contact for IT and selection.com customers  • Editing and creating stored procedures for use with the Fastrax system®  • Creating customer SQL reports for Accounting Department Operations Support Developer TRADEGLOBAL June 2014 to May 2015 • Maintenance of e-commerce solutions based on C# and SQL Server  • Support and enhancement of dropship order management portal for major fashion retailer  • Creation of web services to support order management for streaming television service  • Rebuilt warehouse Winform application to work with changes in database backend  • Production support of multiple SQL Server databases  • Support of drop shipment management portal consisting of SQL database, integration packages, and MVC front-end Support Administrator/ Web Developer February 2011 to June 2014 • Created Asset Management database - a dual manual and automated inventory SQL Server 2008 R2 system integrated with Active Directory and deskside WMIC commands. Asset Management DB forms backbone for Asset Management, IT Incident Management, and IT KnowledgeBase applications.  • Created Asset Management C# ASP.Net application to track and manage users, computers, and IT assets.  • Created IT Incident Management C# ASP.Net application for tracking IT incidents and resolutions. System secured to Active Directory and backed by Asset Management Database.  • Created IT KnowledgeBase C# ASP.Net application to act as repository for IT procedures. Integrated with Active Directory for secure access, Asset Management, and IT Incident Management. Utilizes PHP plugin for file management.  • All web applications written in .Net 4.0 framework.  • Desktop and network support Desktop Support Technician GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE January 1999 to June 2010 Desktop support, IT procurement, remote move coordination, customer service Spring/Fall Conference Web Master TOASTMASTERS INTERNATIONAL, DISTRICT 40 2007 to 2009 volunteer position)    Created and maintained web site used for each semi-annual conference for Toastmasters' District 40. Created and improved district's first ever  online registration system by building interface with PayPal, not only  leading to an increase in attendance, but increasing overall user  satisfaction with the registration process. Education BA in Business Analysis Wilmington College - Cincinnati State and Blue Ash 2012 to 2015 AAS in Computer Programming and Database Management Cincinnati State Technical and Community College - Cincinnati, OH 2009 to 2012 Skills Sql server, Sql, .net, Visual studio, C#, Sql server integration services, jquery, Integration, Javascript, HTML, XML Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/thottle Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    LANGUAGES: C#, SQL .Net 4+, jQuery  SOFTWARE: SQL Server 2016, Visual Studio 2017, TFS    RELEVANT SKILLS    • C#  • SQL Server development  • SQL Server Integration Services  • Communication and Presentation