Sr.Net Developer Sr.Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr.Net Developer Pittsburgh, PA • Over 11+ years of experience in Web and Client/Server applications using Microsoft .NET Technology, SQL Server, Oracle, C#,ASP.NET, ADO.NET, VB.NET,WCF, ASMX, XML and java script.  • Proficient in Object Oriented Design/Development (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Model View Control (MVC) design pattern and Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Professional experience in web, mobile and back end applications Analyzing, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of Client-server, Mainframe and WEB enabled applications.  • Experience in advanced JavaScript/UI frameworks like AngularJS, Bootstrap/UI, JSON, and JQuery.  • Proficiency in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and AGILE (SCRUM) methodologies of development process such as requirement analysis & definition, designing, coding, testing and implementation  • Excellent working knowledge in Developing XML, XSD, XPATH, IIS and JavaScript.  • Experience in designing and branding Master Pages utilizing Server Controls and CSS.  • Experience in developing User Interfaces using ASP.NET, AJAX, JQuery, XML, HTML5/DHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Experience in using ASP.Net for Applications/ Websites Web User Controls, Data Grid control, Form validation controls and created custom controls.  • Extensively worked on web server like IIS 5.0/6.0/7.5.  • Development Methodologies and Tools - MSF Agile, SCRUM, Team Foundation Server 2010, AJAX controls and Kendo UI Web and Mobile.  • Writing SQL triggers/ queries and Stored Procedure. SQL Server-SQL queries coding, Stored Procedures, Functions, and Packages.  • Experience working on 3-Tier, N-Tier Architectures, MVC (Model View Controller), MVVM (Model View, View Model) in applications.  • Experience in developing Client/Server Applications on Three Tier Architecture, N-Tier Architecture, SOA (Service-oriented Architecture), MVC (Model View Controller), and MVP (Model View Presenter) design patterns.  • Proficient in Object Oriented Design/Development, Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Model View Control (MVC) design pattern, Model-View-View Model (MVVM) design patter Team Foundation Server (TFS) and Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Good knowledge and skills about designing mobile applications according to the requirements.  • Developed database applications using VB.NET and C# with SQL Server and Microsoft Access as the databases using ADO.NET Components.  • Build web applications based on ASP.NET technologies.  • Good knowledge about TFS collaboration platform for upgrading VB.Net applications.  • Good experience in developing n-tier Web Applications.  • Developed applications using C# using LINQ, ADO.NET, and ADO.NET Entity Framework.  • Good experience with socket programming for developing client side and server side applications.  • Use SSRS and SSIS tools for developing reports.  • Experience in creating Server objects like Tables, Stored Procedures, Views, Indexes, Triggers, Cursors, user defined data types and functions.  • Well versed with QA Methodology and QA Process to ensure the Quality Assurance including Test Case  • Develop multi-tasking performance with the help of Multithreading.  • Experience in securing web applications using ASP.NET authentication and authorization.  • Ability to work independently or collaboratively with the teams.  • Developed and designed client/server programming with TCP/IP.  • Strong background working with cross-functional teams in the design, development, and quality control of applications, systems and databases. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr.Net Developer Thermo Fisher Scientific, Rothgeb Dr, MD December 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Analysis, design, developing and implementing of full software development life cycle.  • Worked closely with the client team to design and develop the application according to the requirements using ASP.NET with the business logic implemented using C#.  • Created WCF Service which is responsible for communicating and providing real time data from Database to Client Application.  • Experienced supporting large scale applications in the production side.  • Implemented application code using layered architecture.  • Designed public web-services solutions and writing design documentation.  • Implemented critical parts of solution and Code reviewed.  • Published applications and database to Azure environment.  • Managed resources, assign activities and lead status meetings directly to the client.  • Full development of project with ASP.Net, Devexpress, HTML, CSS, and SQL Server.  • Involved in all stages of application development life cycle (SDLC) including requirements, design, development, implementation, and support.  • Created design in the Database where the company used to store sensitive information like credit cards, expiration dates etc..,  • Provide technical architecture analysis, design, development and enhancement.  • Design and created data access layer using LINQ and Entity Framework  • Worked with Azure SQL and Storage to manage all the sensitive information and user information.  • Created Stored Procedures, functions, T-SQL queries in the SQL server.  • Created Proxy for WCF Test Client Application using Service Reference to test the WCF service by QA team.  • Used Entity Framework for data retrieving, querying and storage.  • Designed Console Application, which connects to the client FTP server and pulls the .CSV files to our database after the proper validation.  • Troubleshot the problems and fixed bugs through client requests, and QA.  • Participated in client meetings to discuss improvement options for the development of the application.  Environment: C#, WCF, Entity Framework, HTML 5, CSS 3, ASP.NET 4.0/4.5, Visual Studio 2015, LINQ, TFS, Agile,ADO.Net, SQL Server 2012, T-SQL,JavaScript. Sr.Net Developer Champion Logistics - Northlake, IL, US October 2015 to November 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in full life cycle of the project from requirements gathering, analyzing, designing, and developing the application using Iterative AGILE Methodology.  • Wrote backend code using C# 5.0, hands on experience in creating services for removal, adding and saving.  • Designed and developed an application using Model View Controller (MVC) application framework.  • Experience working with Team Foundation Server.  • Used ASP.NET MVC Page Controller pattern to add functionality to individual pages such as to accept input from the page request, invoke the requested actions on the controller.  • Co-ordinate with UX team to help them in designing the page.  • Used Angular, which communicated with a RESTful web service.  • Developed Data Access Layer Using Entity Framework using Repository, Aggregator and Façade Patterns to access data from Azure (SQL and File) storage, also used API calls to enterprise API to get data in case of enterprise data  • Used C#.NET to develop Code for Business and Repository Layer.  • Participated in various client meetings with the team to discuss improvements options during the development of the application.  • Followed Agile Methodologies (SCRUM, KANBAN and Extreme Programming).  • Maintained and designed databases with use of SQL server.  • Made use of KENDO UI to change the grids from normal data grids to kendo grid.  • Interacting with Business Analyst to ensure all the requirements are translated into technical requirements.  • Design, Development using C#, Java Script, AngularJS for the user interface using the Code behind Class technique.  • Experience in using AngularJS, ability to test views and able to do end to end unit testing. Also, using continuous integration  • Creating custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of AngularJS.  • Created test cases for service components.  • Created several Dto's and done entity mapping.  • Extensively worked on NoSQL development for developing applications using Azure.  • Resolved QA bugs for front end and back end.  • Unit tested the service components and participated in regression testing.  Environment: C#, HTML 5, CSS 3, MVC 4, ASP.NET 4.0/4.5, Angular, NodeJS, JSON, Visual Studio 2015, JavaScript, Query, Bootstrap, TFS, Agile, SQL Server 2012, Windows XP. Sr.Net Developer American Eagle - Chicago, IL, US December 2013 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in full life cycle of the project from requirements gathering, analyzing, designing, and developing the application using Iterative AGILE Methodology.  • Developed the application using .Net 3.5, WCF.  • Designed and developed a web based application and component using C# to automatically generate constants by reading and parsing XML source files and schema files.  • Enterprise n-tier software agent using Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) Web service hosted on IIS  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using AngularJS, EXTJS, ODATA and JQuery  • Used Dependency Injection Pattern to reduce the dependency coupling between classes.  • Customized the Data Grid View Events for various rich UI features  • Developed User and Custom Controls with Event handling mechanism.  • Involved in development of UI (User Interface) Pages using the HTML 5, CSS 3, Master Pages & ASP.NET Controls and ASP classic controls.  • Used Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) web services for creating Service end points and Service contracts for the Application and consumed the web services.  • Experience in using AngularJS ability to test views and able to do end to end unit testing. Also, using continuous integration.  • Create database tables using SQL Server stored procedures, triggers and cursors for the forms.  • Communicate with server team to discuss and provide technical solutions to develop web services for data communication between client and server.  • Worked on SSIS Packages for the extraction of data and schedule the jobs to run on daily Feed basis  • Created various reports like tabular reports, matrix reports, and parameterized reports using SSRS.  • Designed and developed an application using Model View Controller (MVC) 4 application framework.  • Experience working with Team Foundation Server 2008.  • Used the Object Oriented Programming (OOP) techniques and created classes (C#.NET) for database access.  • Working in Agile Methodologies for rapid development and regular adaption to the varying requirements and continuous delivery of the working software.  • Integrating all client components and performed unit testing.  • Followed Agile Scrum methodologies, Test driven development (TTD).  • Participated in various client meetings with the team to discuss improvements options during the development of the application.  Environment: C#, MVC 4, ASP.NET 4.0/4.5, WCF, AngularJS, NodeJS, AJAX, JSON, Visual Studio 2010/2012/2013,JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, LINQ, TDD, REST, IIS 6.0/7.0, TFS, Agile, SQL Server 2008/2012, Windows XP. .Net Web Developer Azimuth Systems - Acton, MA, US October 2011 to November 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering and analyzing the requirements from end-user.  • Developed and designed the web pages by using VB.NET, C# and ASP.NET.  • Design and development of user interface using ASP.NET, VB.Net, HTML, JavaScript  • Followed Agile Methodologies (Scrum and Extreme Programming).  • Involved in documenting the process both at the Functional and Technical level using Visio UML.  • Designed User Interface using Asp.net Standard Controls, Win Forms and Ajax Controls.  • Created and Consumed Web Services.  • Worked with ASP.NET MVC application with UI framework AngularJS and used several ASP.NET MVC features like Routing, HTML helpers, Action Filters, Partial Views, etc.  • Created and developed good design for mobile applications.  • Design and make e-statements using mobile applications.  • Design and connect the database with the use of VB.net components.  • Used Entity Framework to act a bridge between the application and Database.  • Created Master pages and CSS files for uniform look across web interface.  • Extensively used ADO.NET objects like Connection, Command, Data Reader, Data Adapter and Dataset.  • MSSQL Server is used to create the databases and those databases are integrated in Application.  • Maintained and designed databases with use of SQL server.  • Designed and developed complete front-end application using Classic ASP /VB Web Forms.  • Worked on parsing and editing XML documents by validating it to the schema using class libraries provided by .NET.  • Designed and developed several SQL Server stored procedures for all the DML functionality for the web site.  • Involved in System and Integration Testing.  Environment: .Net Framework 4.0, Visual Studio 2010, ASP.NET 4.0, C#.Net3.5,VB.NET, HTML5 ,CSS3, JavaScript, J-Query, Web Services WCF, SQL SERVER 2008/2010, SSIS, SSRS, VSS,TFS, MVC3.0 and 4.0, UML, C#. .NET Developer CoStar Realty Information, Inc - Richmond, VA, US July 2009 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  • Developed applications based on departmental requirements and specifications.  • Prepared and executed test scenarios to test the functionality of the application.  • Used agile methodology for the development.  • Built User Interface with various UI technologies like HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery, etc.  • Used simplified client and server side validation, better session management and powerful data access management using ASP.NET.  • Worked as UI Designer and Developer for the Web application using HTML5, C# and ASP.NET.  • Used AJAX Controls to increase the responsiveness of the web application, used AJAX Toolkit for user Interface Development.  • Used ADO.Net to perform the Create, Retrieve, Update, Delete operations on the database.  • Participated in database modeling and development using SQL Server, Stored Procedures, Packages and Functions.  • Created DTO's and DAO's in the data access layer to perform data transactions.  • Design and implementation of tables, stored procedures, triggers, views, PL/SQL statements for database operations using ADO. NET.  • Data Access layer is implemented using ADO.NET to Communicate with the Oracle Database and to access, update the data in the database.  • Deployed and maintained ASP.NET applications running at IIS 6.0.  • Created Deployment projects for .NET applications using Microsoft's MSI packages.  • Involved in resolving operational problems and systems failures by directing and/or performing systems audits, analyzing problems and developing clear, concise methods for resolution.  • Involved in Feature testing and Regression testing, bug tracking and defect management.  Environment: Visual Studio, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, C#, HTML, CSS, XML, IIS, JavaScript, SQL Server, Master Pages, VSS, MSSQL Server. .NET Developer UBS - Chicago, IL, US July 2007 to June 2009 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for design, Development of Application using C#.Net  • Created custom controls to maintain across the web application.  • Implemented XML Web services.  • Involved in developing reusable and optimized .Net components.  • Implemented Data Access Layer using ADO.Net to communicate With the MS SQL Server 2000 Database.  • Involved in writing Stored Procedures and creating Tables, Views in SQL Server 2000.  • ASP.Net web application and .Net components hosted in Windows 2003.  • Involved in taking Backups, Restoring, Import/Export data using MS SQL Server and DTS.  • Designed and developed Reports by using Crystal report Bundled Version for .Net.  Environment:ASP.Net 1.1/1.0, C#.Net, ADO.Net, .Net Framework 2.0/1.1, HTML, XML, XSLT, Windows 2003, SQL Server 2005/2000, UML. Education Bachelor's Skills SQL SERVER (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), C# (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), ASP (10+ years) Links http://Sr.Net Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages C#, .Net Framework(1.1, 2.0, 3.0, 3.5, 4.0), VB 6.0, HTML, XML, Java Script, C, C++, JQuery, HTML 5, CSS 3, AS.NET, VBScript ASP 3.0  Frameworks ASP.NET, ADO.NET, WCF, MVC, LINQ, IIS, ASP, CSS, TFS, AngularJS, NodeJS, JQuery.  Operating System DOS, NT/98/XP/2000/2003/, Vista/2008, Windows 2003,2008,2012,XP and Windows 7  Databases SQL Server 2005/2008/2010/2012, T-SQL, Stored Procedures, PL/SQL.  .NET Technologies ASP.NET, XML Web Services, ADO.NET, WCF, WPF and Web API, Win Forms, Web Forms Windows Services.  IDE Visual Studio 2003/2005/2008/2010/2012/2013, Notepad++  Methodologies N-tier Application, SOA, Client/Server Architecture, OOA Prototyping, Process Models Systems Integration.  Web Servers Internet Information Server (IIS), REST with WCF, SOAP, API  Version Control Tools Team Foundation Server, Test Driven Development (TDD), Visual Source Safe (VSS)  Browsers ALL ( IE, Google Chrome, Mozilla, Opera)  Markup Languages HTML, XHTML, XML, XSL, DHTML, AngularJS, Javascript, CSS