Senior Full-stack Developer Senior Full-stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Full-stack Developer Las Vegas, NV I have spent the last 2 decades building web applications. As a natural problem solver, I enjoy using my experience to streamline existing applications in efforts to make them more stable, efficient and modular.  My mission is to work with an organization where my unique ability to make beautiful front-end's work with robust backends will deliver high value.    Development Skills & Practices  LANGUAGES & MARKUP  OO PHP (highly proficient), JavaScript (ES6, JSX), JSON, TSQL, MarkDown, Yaml, XML    PHP, DESIGN PATTERNS & FRAMEWORKS  MVC (Yii Framework, Laravel), MVVM, ReactJS with Redux, Singletons, Factory & Decorator Patterns, Object Relational Mapping (ORM), High Availability Concepts, Reflections, Magic Methods, Closures, PHP Composer.    ? I've been writing object-oriented PHP for front-facing applications for 13 years. I'm extremely comfortable using, extending and even authoring frameworks. I enjoy working to create solid, reusable components.    JAVASCRIPT  NodeJS, ReactJS with Redux, jQuery, lodash, MustacheJS, Handlebars, Prototype, Closures, ajax, JSONP, Express, Mongoose, ES5, ES6, Babel, Rollup, Webpack.    ? I started coding in JavaScript 15 years ago. I have an extremely strong grasp on most concepts related to the language, including prototyping, events, scope, and anonymous functions. I've been using ES6 format for a 2+years. I have recently spent a lot of time using ReactJS with Redux in various ways.    UI/UX  CSS3, HTML5, Photoshop, Illustrator  ? Before I became a web developer, I was a full-time graphic artist. I have a rare understanding of how to make the backend and front-end work together seamlessly. I'm very proficient with hand-coding HTML5, CSS3, SCSS, as well as the nuances of browser compatibility, responsive design using media queries, CSS transitions and transformations as well as media queries. Recently I've been working to use SVG images in design implementation    DATABASES  MongoDB, MySQL (InnoDB, MyISAM, Federated), MS SQL Server, CouchDB, Data Modeling    ? I'm well accustomed to use modeling and creating databases for use with applications. I have extensive experience with stored procedures, transactions, functions and migration practices. I've written custom PHP libraries to interact with the NoSQL, REST oriented datastore, CouchDB.    CACHING  Redis, Memcache, CDN (Media Caching), Long-Term Client-Side Caching, Apache File/Mem Caching    ? I feel that having a proper caching in an application is a must. It reduces overhead on the application and data layers, eventually reducing cost overall.    VERSION CONTROL  Git, Gitlab, Git Flow, Mercurial (HG), SVN, CVS and semantic versioning practices    OPERATING SYSTEMS, DEPLOYMENT AND LOAD -BALANCING (DEV-OPS),  Linux (Debian/Ubuntu, CentOS, Redhat), OSX, Docker, HAProxy, Capistrano, Apache Proxy, NGINX,  RSYNC & RDIST    ? I started building applications in an era when every app on the server-side had to be compiled and re-compiled by hand. I'm very comfortable in just about any flavor of Linux.  ? I recently managed all deployments using Capistrano and Mercurial at my previous employer.  ? I recently used PHP to create a multi-site/multi-server deployment system that integrates with SVN.    DEVELOPMENT HISTORY  CMS Platforms, RESTful, APIs, RSS Readers, Social Networks, Activity Feeds, Bulletin Boards/Forums,  Data Aggregation Systems, Single Page Applications, Payment Processing Platforms, Affiliate Platforms,  Page Spiders    OVERALL STRENGTHS  Application Architecture, PHP Development, UI/UX Design, SEO, Overall Problem Solving  ? I feel my best attribute is my experience and my ability to share that experience. Beyond that I believe my experience helps in application design because I often foresee the features an application will likely need in the future. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Full-stack Developer Digital Surgeons LLC July 2018 to February 2019 contract)    At DS, I worked 100% remotely with an awesome team. The position demanded a wide range of skills. In my time there I created a WordPress plugin to manage discount codes that integrated with CraftCMS. I worked with Advanced Custom Fields on multi-site WordPress with localization. DS uses heavy CI/CD integration with Gitlab. I occasionally managed deployments.    Dale Carnegie - https://www.dalecarnegie.com/en (I was a primary team member)  Yale Fortunoff - https://fortunoff.library.yale.edu/ (I was the only developer on this build-from-scratch project) Founder & Sr. Web Developer Maxx Social Inc November 2016 to July 2018 Worked with client: LionDesk (https://www.liondesk.com) to integrate ChargeBee payment solutions. Sr. Application Architect INT Inc July 2015 to November 2016 INT offers a wide range of business services with custom software development and integration being a major component. As a Sr. Software Architect, I lead design and implementation of proprietary applications, components, and interfaces.  Under INT I built CRM components for: Destwin (http://www.destwin.com) and MSM (http://mms.com) Founder & Sr. Web Developer Maxx Social Inc April 2014 to November 2016 Maxx Social is a design and publishing company I created as an umbrella for small personal development projects and Contract work. Web Development Manager & Sr. Web Developer Capital Brands LLC September 2012 to April 2014 Capital Brands is a Direct Sales manufacturing company that markets the famous products 'the Magic Bullet', 'NutriBullet' and many others. As web development manager I was in charge of multiple maintaining eight or more e-commerce websites. I also managed small team of 4 web developers.  My position required me to manage and upgrade legacy PHP Code, add new features like to the application like dynamic campaign management, address verification and real-time credit card processing, CDN integration. I also built the company's first set of responsive websites. I help to architect a custom payment processing gateway for the company.  My position required constant communication with systems, marketing and financial departments.  I personally oversaw the development, maintenance and deployment the company's major properties. The websites I managed represented $180k or more in daily transactions. Security and PCI compliance were always a very high priority.  Contact: Bret Weiner Senior Web Developer Digital Playground October 2010 to November 2011 Digital Playground is an adult film production company, which develops both adult and mainstream titles.  As a senior developer with Digital Playground I was responsible for developing new properties and taking them to market. I was required to be as flexible and well-rounded as possible, handling all aspects of the development process including data modeling and implementation, query analysis, coding the applications, developing and integrating with HTML templates, QA, SEO and CDN integration.  Contact: Provided Upon Request Co-founder & Lead Web Developer Mocha Entertainment Group January 2004 to September 2010 As co-founder and Lead Developer for MEG I oversaw all aspects of application development, database design, programming, graphic design, flash development and system administration.  The position required the management multiple projects simultaneously. As the lead in business development for the company my job also required me to do a large amount market analysis and develop profitable revenue models.  During my work on mochacity.com, I designed the server system and configured the LAMP stack servers. My daily duties included developing custom JavaScript, OO PHP libraries, HTML page templates using SMARTY.  I also developed flash video and audio players, created custom message board applications, RSS aggregation systems, page scraping applications, custom web message applications, and a full CMS platform.  ? MochaCity.com was twice nominated by VH1 Hip Hop Honors for Best Hip Hop Site.  ? The Site Ranked as low as 27,000 on Alexa (with zero advertising) Education None in Business California State University Northridge - Northridge, CA September 1994 to September 1998 High school or equivalent Birmingham High School - Van Nuys, CA September 1990 to June 1994 Skills Jquery, Nodejs, Node, React, Javascript, PHP (10+ years), MySQL (10+ years), Git (5 years), AWS