Marketing Automation Manager Marketing Automation Manager Irvine, CA Email Marketing  ESP platforms:  • Cheetahmail: 2 years  • Constant Contact: 4 years  • MailChimp: 2 years  • Others: 5 years    Marketing Automation Platform  • Eloqua: 12 years    CRM Management  • Salesforce: 5 years    Webinar Platform  • ON24  • WebEX  • GotoMeeting    Website Design and Optimization Graphics, video and audio design production    HTML/CSS/JavaScript Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Marketing Automation Manager Experian 2007 to 2019 Executed lead generation programs using email lead generation, remarketing, loyalty/retention and dynamic content. Created email templates. Optimized landing pages and forms for conversions to qualified sales leads and organic lead generation. Managed email marketing system using Eloqua through Salesforce.    • Measure and report on campaigns and overall performance as well as tracking both ROI and KPIs against client goals to inform strategy going forward.  • Responsible for developing email marketing optimization plan and managing execution  • Responsible for creating HTML and CSS for both emails and landing pages within Eloqua.  • Implemented email marketing strategies which resulted in 50% increase in email open rates across company's email products.  • Collaborated with other business units to create best practices for email marketing.  • Worked closely with business units to identify their needs and challenges and provide solutions-oriented campaign themes.  • Created multi-touch campaigns. i.e. Product launch, webinar, nurture, and events.  • Successfully integrated cloud apps with Eloqua.  • Monitor email deliverability and maintain IP reputation standards. I have implement DMARC/DKIM/SPF for email compliance. Maintained IP reputation using MXToolBox.  • Currently I am the subject matter expert for all business units across global Experian. I help business units understand Eloqua and troubleshoot their campaigns setup.  • Salesforce integration. I have been a part of Eloqua/SF integration and have been successfully sending leads to SF from email campaigns.  • A/B testing on all aspect of email marketing to optimize KPI  • Litmus - optimize email deliverability on both desktop and mobile devices  • Trained and mentored new team members Web Developer Experian 2002 to 2007 Developed and maintained company's websites. Education B.A. University of California - Irvine, CA Skills Marketing, Marketing automation, Coding, Html, Javascript, Css, Dreamweaver, Oracle, Training, Photoshop, Premiere, Customer Service, Marketing Strategy, Social Media Marketing Certifications/Licenses Scrum Master April 2019 to April 2020 Certified Scrum Professionals challenge their teams to improve the way Scrum and Agile principles are applied. They have demonstrated experience, documented training, and proven knowledge in Scrum. The CSP® certification is unique to developers and distinct from a Certified Scrum Professional®-ScrumMaster (CSP®-SM) or Certified Scrum Professional®-Product Owner (CSP®-PO).