CX Interaction Designer CX Interaction Designer CX Interaction Designer Davenport, IA Work Experience CX Interaction Designer Wells Fargo - Des Moines, IA 2016 to 2018 Worked with JAVA development team to design and update web based interfaces for Retail  Services applications/tools  • Collaborated with E-Business Systems team to update and redesign Retail Services public and internal pages  • Updated sections of Retail Services website to be mobile and tablet friendly  • Implemented Javascript based tools and funtionality  • Built and tested websites to meet W3C/WCAG A, AA & AAA Standards  • Skills Used: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Graphic Design, JavaScript, JQuery, Mobile Design, Project Management Web Developer & Marketing Manager Sabre Hospitality - Dallas, TX 2013 to 2016 • Worked on client sites doing maintenance and upgrades to front-end layout and functionality.  • Created mock-ups and converted mock-ups into working websites.  • Built social media assets and tools  • Interfaced with project managers, marketing and clients to gather requirements and give  time/cost estimates on website builds and updgrades.  • Upgraded older sites to be cross device compatible (mobile/tablet/desktop adaptive layouts)  • Skills Used: HTML/HTML5, CSS/SCSS, PHP, SQL, Graphic Design, JavaScript, JQuery, Social Media Design/Development/Implementation, Mobile Design. Web Developer & Marketing Manager Oneclicktickets.com - Davenport, IA 2004 to 2012 Created all aspects of new websites. Do updates and redesigns as needed to keep up with modern browser standards, take advantage of new functionality and optimize existing, as well as  create new, content pages to maximize repeat visitors and conversions.  • Create Product Pages & Online marketing materials compatible with major desktop browsers  and mobile devices (Iphone, tablets, IE, Mozilla and Webkit based browsers).  • Run web performance reports using Google Analytics, FB Insights, and some other online  resources. This data is used to optimize search engine placements and conversion rates of product pages and gather effectiveness of online marketing efforts.  • Develop Social Media pages, blogging platforms and related link partnerships to enhance  organic Search engine listings and traffic.  • Maintain Linux/Unix based servers and SQL databases.  • Manage day-to-day office activities and personnel  • Work with clients and affiliates to process current sales and create more revenue streams  • Create on and offline marketing materials for current clients and Your Official Tickets  • Hire and manage employees for support roles within the company.    Skills Used: Office Management, CSS, HTML, PHP, SQL, Graphic Design, JavaScript, Google  Reporting Tools(Analytics, Facebook Insights). Web Developer Front Row Seats - Las Vegas, NV 2004 to 2006 • Redesigned and maintained website.  • Worked with marketing team to create online advertising and graphics  • Created and maintained online product database for customers and partners  • Skills Used: .asp, CSS, HTML, SQL, Graphic Design, JavaScript, XML Web Developer Golden Harvest Seeds - Port Byron, IL 2003 to 2004 • Redesigned and maintained website.  • Worked with marketing team to create online advertising and graphics  • Created and maintained online product database for customers and partners  • Skills Used: .asp, CSS, HTML, SQL, Graphic Design, JavaScript, XML Web Developer Cisco Systems - San Jose, CA 1998 to 2003 • Maintained and created programs for public and internal web applications and pages  • Worked with product managers creating websites and as an intermediary between the product  managers and outside vendors  • Managed small team of web designers and developers to coordinate cross promotional product  collaboration  • Skills Used: HTML5, CSS/SCSS, PHP, XML/XSL, JavaScript, Java, Flash, Graphic Design Education Project Management University of Phoenix Journalism/English Muscatine Community College/University of Iowa Skills GRAPHIC DESIGN, WEB DESIGN, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, PHP, XML, XML/XSL, XSL, CSS, SQL, JAVA Additional Information Skills Skill Skill Level (1-10) Years of Experience    Accessibility 8 5    CSS 7 9    Google Webmaster Tools 6 7    HTML 9 15    Java 2 2    JavaScript 7 10    PHP 7 9    SQL 7 5+    Web Design/Graphic Design 8 11    XHTML 8 5+    XML/XSL 5 2