Web Application Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Application Developer - The H.T. Hackney Co Charlotte, MI Work Experience Web Application Developer The H.T. Hackney Co April 2017 to Present Promote an Agile development environment and trained management on Agile practices.  ? Integrated CI/CD workflows into the team's development process.  ? Migrated and deployed several customer facing websites to AWS cloud services.  ? Developed customer ordering trend functionality into the company's e-commerce site.  ? Designed applications synchronizing data with the vehicle telematics provider to improve real-time delivery logistic  oversight.  ? Incorporated mobile-friendly responsive design improvements across several company websites.  ? Developed backend REST web service intended for current and future applications using AWS API Gateway.  ? Created boilerplate to offload current and future long-running, memory intense report generation processes to AWS  Lambda and using serverless computing practices. Senior Engineer LEIGHTRONIX, INC April 2012 to April 2017 Developed custom API backend and web UI frontend for multiple video server appliance products.  ? Developed subscription/licensing infrastructure for video server appliances to secure premium services.  ? Developed custom Roku integration boilerplate to enable applications to be created and deployed quickly for existing  streaming customers.  ? Created custom monitoring applications and workflows to report on all production system and service availability.  ? Developed multi-tenant (SaaS) video streaming platform providing both Live and VOD services using H.264/AAC  codecs, and HLS/RTMP protocols. VOD service included encoding pipeline automation using both local and AWS  cloud services to normalize source media for streaming playback. Live service included geographically aware content  delivery network and adaptive bitrate streaming. Network Administrator LEIGHTRONIX, INC January 2001 to April 2012 Orchestrated move of data and voice services to new facility and implemented inter-VLAN routing to help with the growth of the company's network.  ? Deployed a VPN connection between corporate LAN and major cellular carrier to support M2M communication.  ? Transitioned company's file server environment from Novell Netware to Windows Server/Active Directory.  ? Installed and maintained an IBM Lotus Domino environment for email, calendar, chat systems, and other databases  including the company's custom CRM.  ? Deployed and Administered Sonicwall firewall/router appliances used for the primary routing and content filter  appliance between the corporate LAN and public WAN.  ? Configured and maintained LAN-to-LAN VPN connections between corporate headquarters and remote locations. Skills Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Redux, Typescript, Perl, Php, Python, Software development, Active directory, Cisco, Network administration, Db2, Mongodb, Android, Ios, Css, Streaming, Database, Mysql Links http://linkedin.com/in/toddaa http://github.com/toddaa http://aatodd.com Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner August 2019 to August 2022 Additional Information Key Skills    ? Software development in: PHP, HTML, Javascript (jQuery, NodeJS, Angular, React, Redux), CSS (Bootstrap), Typescript,  Actionscript, Brightscript, Bash, C, PERL, Python, and IBM RPGLE.  ? Database familiarity with: MySQL/MariaDB, MongoDB, and DB2.  ? Network administration utilizing: Sonicwall, Cisco IOS, Microsoft Windows Server/Active Directory, and Linux server.  ? Diverse platform familiarity with: Microsoft Windows, Linux, Apple macOS, Apple iOS, Google Android, Amazon AWS, and  Wowza Streaming Engine