Freelance Web Developer Freelance <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Application Developer McDonald, PA Work Experience Freelance Web Developer Web Design Company November 1999 to Present Danburfield.com  ? Working with clients from initial survey of needs to wireframe and final product    Client list includes: Pennsylvania Dental Hygienists Association, Grow Sales, Inc., Logix Guru, Jane Freund Ceramics, Black Yoga, Goal Getters, Danielle Nichole Photography, Penn Hills Police Fallen Heroes Fund, Wadsworth Real Estate Inc, Bryn Mawr Farms, Tenor Michael Jankosky, Trim Lounge, Metrolina Crating, Mag-Kits, Reese Remodeling Senior Application Developer PJ Dick - Trumbull - Lindy May 2018 to July 2019 Within six months of employment, utilized Angular to create a Help Desk App, with no prior knowledge. The Angular App allows employees to fill out Help Desk tickets and communicates with the Lotus Domino Database via JSON-formatted data  ? Applied newly acquired Lotus Notes/ Lotus Script knowledge to several successful Database apps  ? Completely reworked the PHP-based corporate website, PJDick.com Senior Visual Developer Brunner October 2017 to February 2018 Completed within 6 weeks, a user interface which collects over 1000 points of data to calculate a certified home inspection rating score  ? Developed a user interface, which collects over 1000 points of data during a certified home inspection, to calculate a rating score  ? Designed the visual graphic mockups. Web app built in ASP.NET MVC Razor with a Bootstrap front end with smaller AJAX calls to optimize performance Senior Application Programmer/ Developer Ciber Inc January 2014 to October 2017 Big Heart Pet Brand and Del Monte:  ? Designed a responsive website for utilizing a Bootstrap framework and .Net  ? Responsible for front-end, UX, and scripting data calls using .Net and Ektron  ? Developed single-page applications for seasonal marketing campaigns using Bootstrap and Waypoints for responsive parallax display  ? Worked directly with Del Monte's creative team, Evolution Bureau, translating PSD layouts to web standards responsive solutions    Client list includes: Milkbone, Natures Recipe, Meow Mix, and 9 Lives    Bayer Inc:  ? Responsible for working closely with the client to create desktop and mobile-ready marketing websites via PHP and JavaScript. Scripting PHP and database JSON calls  ? Ascensia Diabetes. Worked closely with the client to divest all assets from Bayer and redesign their corporate websites  ? Managed both the US and Canadian teams in this transition  ? Converted .Net to temporary PHP Full Stack Web Developer USA Today Sports November 2010 to December 2013 Implemented 38 broadcast and print media sports articles into the current site during a year-long project; used a proprietary newspaper content markup system, Saxotech  ? Developed the successful NFL "Everything to Prove" and Asics "Ultimate Athlete" contest hubs  ? Implemented the first RESTful search within the High School Sports website for the All USA pages  ? Optimized results filtering with jQuery  ? Created internal Content Tools to create the Super 25 Massey Sports Rankings  ? Introduced open source technologies to the site, including SASS, and standards of best practices to optimize site performance and aid in rapid development  ? Added Omniture analytics tracking on the Schedulestar.com  ? Exhibited leadership skills as Usatodayhss.com technical senior developer, the Omniture SiteCatalyst technical lead, and the Saxotech technical lead  ? Developed a streamlined process to orient new team members  ? Assisted in HSS product knowledge training and gave project direction to junior staff members  ? Aided in the transition of product technologies from ColdFusion to Java  ? Led the mobile project of Usatodayhss.com website with jQuery Mobile Front End Developer Barkley/REI May 2010 to October 2010 Created standards compliant, semantic web interfaces via XHTML, CSS, JavaScript (using jQuery) from Photoshop documents  ? Implemented transformations of XML to HTML via XSLT  ? Standardized RSS feeds  ? Integrated Yelp reviews using JSON  ? Used the Facebook API for Ad Campaign voting  ? Integrated templates into custom CMS and Hannon Hill Cascade Server  ? Used cross browser debugging techniques, created full support rendering for all browsers including IE6+  ? Coded for mobile websites and tested for current market mobile browsers    Client list includes: CMU Tepper, Cal U, University of Wyoming, University of California, National MS Society, and TwoOfUs, Visit Annapolis, Explore Asheville, Visit Phoenix Web and Graphics Developer Alcoa Inc February 2007 to May 2009 Designed and published web pages for Alcoa's global corporate website  ? Created an interactive map demonstration for Alcoa Defense  ? Scripted a JavaScript-driven animated historical timeline celebrating Alcoa's 120th Anniversary  ? Translated PDF designs to standard HTML  ? Added a blog section to allow for live RSS blogging during CES  ? Designed Flash banners section adverts  ? Upgraded the Careers section to meet Section508 web standards  ? Programmed the AlcoaCarriers to allow for Excel data uploads  ? Complete design of the Innovations section, Alcoa Australia sites, and SEC earnings Education Associates in Web Programming Community College of Allegheny County Liberal Arts University of Akron - Akron, OH research Code Academy Skills .NET, VISUAL STUDIO, ACTIVE SERVER PAGES, C#, Git, Java, Javascript (10+ years), HTML 5 (10+ years), Responsive Web Design (10+ years), Angular (1 year) Links http://linkedin.com/in/dan-burfield Additional Information Technical Skills    ? Programming - HTML5, XHTML, CSS, SASS, JavaScript, Angular 7, TypeScript, RxJS, NodeJS, jQuery, UI, Mobile First Responsive/ Adaptive Design  .Net, C#, ASP.NET MVC, PHP, Java, ColdFusion, LotusScript, Active Server Pages (ASP), JSON, XML, XSLT, RSS, RESTful web services  ? Database - SQL Server, MySQL  ? Software - Text editors and IDE: Eclipse, Visual Studio.Net., Notepad++, Sublime, Dreamweaver, NetBeans, WebStorm  CMS frameworks: Ektron, Wordpress, Mambo, Joomla, Hannon Hill Cascade Server, Saxotech  ? E Commerce and Marketing Strategy - KalioCommerce, BigCommerce, WooCommerce, A/B testing, Ad campaigns  ? Graphics - The Adobe Creative Suite  ? Analytics - Google Analytics, Omniture, Comscore, Chartbeat, SEO optimization  ? Version Control: TFS, Git, SVN  ? Social Media - Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Snapchat, Yelp  ? Development Process - Agile, Scrum, Waterfall, JIRA stage-illustration