Digital Media Manager Digital Media Manager A creative, hard-working and team-oriented Front-End Web Designer/ Developer with experience managing digital media &amp; web staff. Accomplished in major organizational website overhauls, from design implementation and accessibility to content management and information architecture, with a proven record of getting the job done. Lansing, MI A creative, hard-working and team-oriented Front-End Web Designer/ Developer with experience managing digital media & web staff. Accomplished in major organizational website overhauls, from design implementation and accessibility to content management and information architecture, with a proven record of getting the job done. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Digital Media Manager Michigan State University - East Lansing, MI November 2016 to Present Led web design update project for the College of Natural Science, which involved a modern design refresh, CMS upgrade and site migration to the new system    • Manage web team staff and students.  • Write and create content (pictures, video) for Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and LinkedIn.  • Act as the web accessibility liaison for the the college, attending monthly accessibility meetings with Central IT, and reporting out web accessibility progress on a monthly/yearly basis.  • Train content editors on using Mura CMS tools and custom components through in-person classroom training and 1-on-1 support.  • Member of the Web Governance Advisory Council, a collection of professionals from all of the major academic units on campus who put forth and enforce web governance policy. Senior Front-End Web Designers/ Developer Central Michigan University - Mount Pleasant, MI April 2014 to November 2016 Lead and manage OIT front-end development staff and students. Consult with campus departments and user offices. Create and maintain university websites.    • Led upgrade of university website to Bootstrap 3.  • Mentor and maintain training program for student designers.  • Evaluate and recommend web design languages and tools.  • Establish best practices and standards for design specifications for both internal and external use. Web Developer/Programmer II Central Michigan University - Mount Pleasant, MI October 2008 to April 2014 • Led upgrade of university website to responsive design using Bootstrap 2.  • Managed a small design team consisting of a full-time Digital Designer and two Student Designers.  • System administrator and system trainer for end-users of Ingeniux Web Content Management System.  • Met and engaged with customers to examine and document project requirements. Adjunct Faculty Central Michigan University - Mount Pleasant, MI August 2011 to December 2011 Taught CPS 165 - Modern Website Design Web Developer/Programmer I Central Michigan University - Mount Pleasant, MI October 2007 to October 2008 • Handled development requests which involved front-end HTML and CSS changes on the public websites and applications. Education Master of Science in Administration Central Michigan University - Mount Pleasant, MI August 2010 to May 2012 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Central Michigan University - Mount Pleasant, MI August 2003 to May 2006 Associate in Applied Science in Computer Programming Baker College - Jackson, MI September 2000 to June 2003 Skills HTML5, CSS3, HTML/XHTML, LESS, Sass, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery,Web Accessibility, ARIA (10+ years), Front End, Javascript, UI, Customer Service Links http://www.jesseearley.com Certifications/Licenses Project Management: The Basics for Success August 2018 to Present Work Smarter, Not Harder: Time Management for Personal & Professional Productivity August 2018 to Present ARIA and JavaScript Accessibility January 2017 to Present HTML and CSS Accessibility January 2017 to Present Web Accessibility Fundamentals January 2017 to Present Web Accessibility Testing Techniques January 2017 to Present Assessments Project Management Skills: Time Management — Proficient August 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/en84-zyph3cquxp0 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.