Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Nicolas Global LLC Scottsdale, AZ Hola, I am a designer and developer currently living in Scottsdale, Arizona at the moment. I specialize in   javascript games, website design, graphic design, corporate identities, animation, various types of media projects and recently app development with phone-gap. I have been designing and developing professionally for over 7 years.    When I'm not coding or designing, you'll find me playing guitar or on the freeway on my harley motorcycle. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Nicolas Global LLC January 2018 to Present Duties in include handle all aspects of creating custom php sites, mobile apps, magento  extensions. Other duties include photo editing and creating pwa sites. Freelance Javascript Game Designer/ Developer Drupal Connect 2014 to Present Design and develop health educational javascript games. Freelance Web Developer Avintiv Media February 2017 to October 2017 Freelance Web Developer Tecademics October 2016 to August 2017 Freelance Web Designer/ Developer Pixona April 2014 to 2016 Create custom websites, wordpress networks and graphic elements, other duties include  video editing, photo retouching, php web apps, wordpress multi network plugins and working with multiple json and xml apis Freelance JavaScript Developer Edgenuity Inc December 2013 to February 2014 Graphic & Web Designer / Mobile & Web Vissina October 2012 to December 2013 Developer  Design various responsive "Mobile & Ipad Compatible" websites utilizing HTML, CSS, PHP,    Created using Resumonk - Online Resume Builder  PHP OOP, JavaScript, Jquery, WordPress, Magento and other tools for media development.  Also responsible for the design, slicing, CSS, and HTML, of ad banners and email templates across a range of eCommerce websites and Silvertribe.com. Freelance Web & Graphic Developer Ventana Media November 2011 to December 2013 Duties include create various types of graphics, design and develop website utilizing  wordpress, php, jquery, css3 and other various languages. Screen Printer Underestimated LLC August 2012 to October 2012 Screen Printer  Create and print shirts, hats, and other various types of clothing Freelance Web Designer Metro Signs January 2012 to October 2012 Brought in as a freelance designer to complete various types of websites and create other  types of media designs Freelance Web Designer IntraEdge February 2012 to March 2012 Brought in on contract to design software User Interface and other media applications  utilizing jquery, css, and html. Web Marketing Specialist Texas Armoring Corporation August 2010 to June 2011 Manage Website content, build new landing pages, optimize for SEO. Work on a multitude  of web and graphic projects utilizing HTML, CSS, PHP, Javascript, Jquery, Photoshop and other numerous types of media software. Other duties include photography and image  retouching. Assistant Graphic Designer & Web Developer Ventura Designs & Media Inc February 2009 to April 2009 Worked on senior citizen directory (Gold Pages) and provide maintenance for Youthliving.org. Researching data, create covers, and a set of pages used throughout the  site. Designed and animated Flash Banner campaigns for several clients including Henry  Cejudo (Olympic Medalist). Electrician Hilty's Electrical International October 2006 to October 2008 Performed electrical-related wiring and installation for commercial and residential  construction projects, including new construction, retrofits, remodels and plant  expansions. Cashier and Customer Service Tortilleria Valle Real June 2004 to October 2005 of Mexican foods, handle cash  register, food orders, deliveries, indoor and out door maintenance, and clean store.    Created using Resumonk - Online Resume Builder Education AA Anthem College 2007 to 2008 Diploma Ysleta High School 2002 to 2006 Skills CSS (7 years), Flash (5 years), HTML (7 years), Javascript (7 years), php (6 years), MYSQL, Android, Git, HTML 5, Jquery Links http://modifiedarts.com https://senormedia.com Additional Information SKILLS jQuery, WordPress, Dreamweaver, Flash, Graphic Design, Illustrator, PHP, Spanish, HTML,  CSS, Photoshop, After Effects, InDesign, Javascript, MySQL, XHTML, Photography, Premiere  Pro, Drupal, Wordpress Design, HTML 5, CSS 3, SQL, phpMyAdmin, Web Design, SEO, E-  commerce, User Interface, Graphics, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, HTML5, Cascading Style Sheets  (CSS), Search Engine Optimization (SEO)