Sr. PHP/Drupa Developer Sr. PHP/Drupa <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. PHP/Drupa Developer - LAMP Stack Atlanta, GA • Over 11+ years of working experience as PHP/Full Stack Developer using PHP, Drupal, wordPress & SEO technologies.  • Hands on experience UI/UX development to create a seamless customer experience for a high traffic E-commerce such as WordPress and Magneto website through desktop mobile and smart phone app interfaces  • Experienced in Drupal themes, modules and familiarity with the Drupal API and hook system  • Develop, test and implement cross-browser compatible Drupal themes using valid XHTML/CSS.  • Familiarity with large multi-server Drupal environments, administration, and integration with various third-party sites with open APIs.  • Extensive working experience using Symphony, Zend, Laravel & Cake PHP Frameworks.  • Proficient in designing and developing the front end, component-based and object-oriented systems for building multi-tier architecture with hands-on development expertise in front end GUI layer.  • different browsers like Internet Explorer, Google Chrome, Firefox, Opera and Safari.  • Strong in Web designing technologies like HTML5, XHTML, JavaScript, CSS3, JQuery, Ajax and JSON.  • Expertise in developing websites using JavaScript frameworks such as AngularJS and BackboneJS.  • Expertise in Client Side designing and validations using HTML, CSS, DHTML and JavaScript.  • Sound Understanding and good Experience with Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript, Object Oriented Design and Implementation.  • Strong Knowledge on spring and cucumber.  • Significant experience in using tools like Firebug and Chrome Inspector Tools.  • Experienced in working with various databases like Oracle, SQL Server, Mongo DB and MYSQL.  • Solid LAMP and WAMP stack development Experience.  • Experience in developing and maintaining websites and web applications using PHP, Lamp, web services, HTML, XHTML, XML, CSS, JSON, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, CURL.  • Experience in Apache web server administration/configuration.  • Experience in enterprise web applications development in LAMP stack.  • Experience in developing and implementing Web Services using SOAP, WSDL  • Having experience in LAMP/WAMP and Acquia Drupal environment.  • Knowledge and hands on experience of using PHP, HTML5, ASP, JAVA, Shell-scripting language.  • Used Drupal for content management system and Sub Version (SVN)/GIT for Version control.  • Developed custom Drupal Theme to address business requirements.  • Experience in BI suite - using integration services (SSIS), ETL (Extraction, Transformation and Loading), reporting services (SSRS) for creating different types of reports.  • Good Exposure to work on Frame Work using Struts MVC Architecture.  • Diverse experience utilizing various Java tools and frameworks in Web based and Batch applications including Spring, Enterprise Java Bean (EJB), JPA (Hibernate, Open JPA) and Struts  • Extensive experience in implementing Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (using ANT & Jenkins) in an Agile Environment.  • Experience in developing web pages in Responsive Design using jQuery, JSON, AJAX, Augular.JS, Backbone.JS, Bootstrap and React JS.  • Developed various websites using Word Press CMS by providing diverse range of functionalities in ecommerce websites through customizing different plugins.  • Experienced in PHP5, MySQL, Python, ASP, OOPS, Design Patterns, HTML5, CSS and API driven design.  • Developed the administrative UI using Angular JS and Node JS.  • Extensively used JavaScript, Angular.js and Asynchronous JavaScript and XML (AJAX) technologies to build dynamic web contents with high performance.  • Experience with CMS Development / Web Frameworks integration, specifically Word Press.  • Expert in PHP Drupal and MySQL with database analysis and design.  • Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  • In-depth knowledge of integration of RESTFUL Web Services, HTTP Services and Web Services with web applications.  • Implemented and used Web Services with the help of WSDL, SOAP and JAX-WS to get updates from the third parties.  • Good Working knowledge of any JavaScript framework YUI, JQuery, Prototype, or others Object-oriented programming.  • Experience in PHP 5, MySQL, HTML5, CSS, XML, JavaScript, JSON, JQuery, AJAX and Content Management System, LAMP technology, web services, MVC Framework, cron management, Memcache and AWS cloud.  • Strong command in leading Frameworks Team like Angular.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, D3.Js, React.Js, Node.Js and Projects UI Designing Team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. PHP/Drupa Developer LAMP Stack - Atlanta, GA October 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Installed and configured Drupal on several environments; Development, staging and testing (LAMP Stack).  • Provided guidance on AWS operations and deployment, and best practices throughout the lifecycle of a project.  • Developed web applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and Oracle databases Involved in re-skinning of website developed in Drupal 8 and developed custom modules to support the system.  • Implement Central Authentication Server using Laravel 5.4, Laravel Passport, Backpack and related packages applications.  • Worked on custom panels, blocks, content types, and views to customize the look of the site.  • Created Drupal modules for Active log sessions and Service Reporting System.  • Used WordPress for developing web pages.  • Worked on an open-source CMS Drupal to build website using Drupal 8.  • Building the web pages from scratch using Drupal 8 & PHP.  • Assisted in migrating legacy PHP 7.2 web app to Python/Django.  • Used all aspects of MYSQL/PHP Programming (object oriented PHP) in LAMP environment.  • Interface with client in gathering requirements, managing expectations.  • Developed user interface using HTML, XHTML, CSS, JSON and JavaScript to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Leading Frameworks Team like Ember, Angular.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, Node.js & D3.js.  • Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as, backbone.js, Node.js AngularJS and Bootstrap.js - Using Subversion for version control.  • Designed SPA (Single page applications) in Flux architecture using React.js.  • Worked on variety of Frontend JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS, BackboneJS, ReactJS, JQuery, JQuery UI and good knowledge in EmberJS.  • Lead project development of web application using PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AngularJS ecommerce application pages according to project requirements.  • Implemented second level cache and query level cache in Hibernate using EHcache plug-in.  • Used JSON for data exchange between application modules along with XML.  • Developing responsive theme using Html, JQuery, JSON, CSS, and SASS to support devices.  • Migration of Drupal7 to 8 versions and Involved in developing new features as enhancements.  • Carried out extensive verification and testing to set MySQL database free from SQL injections throughout course of database development and management.  • Developed various sections using AngularJS, HTML, CSS, Ajax, and JSON and spring web service.  • Worked on MVC, Subversion, Git, Zend, Cake PHP, CodeIgniter Framework, Word press, and LAMP toolset.  • Use logic and creativity to decide how to create logical solutions with Magento / PHP / Javascript.  • Integrated Magento modules through PHP, JS, HTML, and CSS customization and debugging  • Built AJAX pages using PHP to display current server time  • Involved in the development using JQuery and PHP and designed applications in AJAX with rich user interfaces.  • Designed and Implemented an AJAX e-mail subscription and info-bar pop-up Magento modules  • Development experience with Zend, Net Beans, Notepad++, JEdit.  • Developed cross browser and multi browser compatible web pages using HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.  • Magento site development using Object Oriented PHP with Zend best practices, with a variety of client side javascript  • Used advanced level of HTML, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts (table less layout).  • Modification and customization of the Drupal and Word Press themes.  • Worked on HTML5/CSS and JQuery in a Drupal based CMS environment  • Performed image/graphic slicing and optimization using Adobe Photoshop.  • Used JIRA, Stash, Bamboo, Confluence Project development tools  • Excellent work done in writing queries, stored procedures, triggers and functions in SQL Server, Oracle, DB2 etc.    Environment:WAMP, LAMP, Zend Framework, PHP, Apache,HTML, CSS, XML, React.JS, JavaScript, Node.js, JSON, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Jasmine, Java, DB2, CRUD, PL/SQL, JDBC, Oracle, MySQL, MongoDB, Apache CXF, SOAP, Web Services, REST, Eclipse, Git, Github, Junit, Agile, Scrum, Maven Linux, Ubunto, UNIX. Sr. PHP Developer State Farm insurance - Chicago, IL June 2016 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  • Coding in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment.  • Develop web applications within a LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment.  • Developed the application on LAMP architecture.  • Migrated internal operational IT from a legacy mainframe to a custom web-based application platform using LAMP open-source tools.  • Strongly used LAMP (Linux-Apache-MySQL-PHP) platform.  • Development of custom modules using LAMP, PHP and XML.  • Develop web application using LAMP, Magento, and PHP.  • Development of an interactive section to allow customers see earrings and piercings with the help of a virtual ear using LAMP ,PHP / JS / AJAX / jQuery  • LAMP , PHP code refactoring and optimization according best practices.  • LAMP ,PHP scripting to update catalog data and inventory data through a csv file.  • PHP backend development of custom modules CRUD  • Used all aspects of MYSQL/PHP Programming (object oriented PHP), in LAMP environment.  • Fixing reported bugs.  • Identifying and solving issues caused by plugins or third part APIs under PHP, MYSQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery Technology.  • Customize product detail page so customers can buy the main product's extended warranty at the same time using PHP and AJAX.  • Customize Magento's PHP core checkout to equals the view as the USA website.  • Integrate Magento with SAP system to get live inventory data updates while customer is attempting to finish his order through a WS call using SOAP / PHP, LAMP.  • Implemented User interface (UI) entire application using HTML, CSS, Custom Tag Libraries, JavaScript, XML and XSLT.  • Developed the UI pages using HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, ANGULAR.JS, and D3.JS.  • Develop application using Ember, AngularJS, Bootstrap, RequireJS.  • Developed frontend application using React.js, Express.js and Knockout. Js.  • Create web service component using REST, SOAP, WSDL, XML to interact with the middleware  • Wrote test cases using JUnit testing framework and configured applications on Weblogic Server.  • Developed bug management system for internal usage, using MySQL, Bootstrap, Backbone.js  • Use Spring Data to extract data from Neo4j and MongoDB databases  • Usage of version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache) and JIRA  • Worked with Oracle RDBMS for writing complex queries and PL/SQL, SQL for Stored Procedures, Triggers and Events, for generating some important responses needed by the application  • Developed Angular-JS unit test cases using Jasmine and Karma.  • Used JPA Hibernate and Spring to perform CRUD operation with MYSQL and perform persistence for Hazelcast cache.  • Have broken down the application into multiple angular modules for simplicity purposes and have done unit tests using Jasmine  • Worked on JDBC to select and update the data from the MySQL database  • Developed framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies    Environment:J2ee, Java, Jsp, Servlet, Jdbc, Struts, Junit, Log4j, Javascript, Dhtml, Websphere Application Server, Axis, Wsad, Xml, Xslt, Ant, Sql, Sql Query Analyzer, Jprobe, Cvs, Opprox Reports, Windows'xp, Unix-Ibm Aix PHP/Drupal Developer Freddie Mac Mortgage - Miami, FL February 2015 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Used all aspects of MYSQL/PHP Programming (object oriented PHP), Zend Framework in LAMP environment.  • Worked with PHP, MYSQL, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX and XHTML to build a fully Web 2.0 compliant networking website.  • Experience in WordPress plugging development creating, and modifyingWordPress themes.  • Created a DRUPAL/DKAN site that utilizes both PHP and Database.  • Identifying and solving issues caused by plugins or feeds under PHP, MYSQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQueryTechnology.  • Modifying PHP, HTML, CSS, Java script, JQuery according to project requirements.  • As a developer involved in design and developing websites using PHP5, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML4/5, AJAX and MYSQL.  • Used Spring ORM to integrate with Hibernate and used the Hibernate template to persist the data.  • Created LESS files and used grunt to preprocess and generate the CSS files.  • Custom WordPress themes creation with HTML5, CSS using LESS, and PHP files.  • Used Hibernate extensively to persist the data into the Oracle11g database.  • Extensively used Annotations, Mappings and querying the database using Hibernate.  • Responsible for designing new modifications and enhancements to current production systems and driving the team which implements them forMagento WordPress sites.  • Developed front end themes from customization of the WordPress back-end for enhanced client usability, plugin integrations, launch and maintenance.  • Worked on an open-source CMSDrupal to build website using Drupal7  • Custom module and template design and development for Magento.  • Customize the Magentocore codebase and developed extensions.  • In charge of building, design and maintaining websites using CMS systems such as WordPress and Magento.  • Used SMTP mail class of PHP for the users to send mail with suggestions. Extensive use of PHPMailer class.  • Used the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications.  • Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop.  • Developed user interface using PHP, CodeIgniter, NOCMS, bootstrap, AJAX, JQuery,HTML5, CSS3.  • Used YII Framework to implement MVC (Model View Controller) architecture;  • Used different YII extensions required.  • Integrated Continuos delivery pipelines into Jenkins  • Worked on several grunt tasks for automating the tasks.  • Worked in CMS tools such as Joomla, Drupal and WordPress.  • Modified the source code according to the requirement using Joomla  • Experience in automation server Jenkins to automate the tasks for building, testing and deploying.  • Developed Configurable shims for modular JavaScript. Displayed good UX  • Worked with the Database Schema design and normalization for database accessed by the procedural PHP pages  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, AJAX, and CSS, JQuery other libraries  • Worked with integrating search engine optimization (SEO) functionality within an MVC framework using constantly evolving legitimate techniques to improve website ranking in the major Search Engines.    Environment: Eclipse, PHP, XML, HTML, ZEND Framework, LAMP, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, MySQL, VPN, Cake PHP, Drupal, JQuery, Magento, CodeIgniter, JavaScript.Client: New York Life Insurance PHP Developer Bridgetown Consulting Group - Piscataway, NJ July 2012 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Build code using IDE IntelliJ and deploy it using Apache Tomcat.  • Created web services using WTP tool plugin to the eclipse IDE which is deployed as a separate application using Maven scripts.  • Used DOJO for Ajax Support and used JSON for DOM objects  • Report Generation, Unit testing using PHP Unit, System, Integration and Performance testing of the application and its components.  • Excellent procedural skills and improving Object Oriented skills.  • Proficiency in Prototype, Module Design, User Interface Design, and Integration of PHP components.  • Installing and Configuring Eclipse and Web sphere application Server.  • Written JUNIT test cases for testing UI Framework classes and wrote many Java Scripts to do client side validations  • Developed JSP pages for presentation layer (UI) using Struts with client side validations using Struts Validator framework/ JavaScript.  • Set up JBoss Server, Configured MySQL Cluster in Linux OS and installed OpenCall XDMS.  • Write PHP Scripts for application logic and access database (MySQL) layer  • Wrote various PHP scripts in the header, footer, multiple contact pages, etc  • Template Modifications in the twenty eleven themes including setting up MYSQL Database for configuration.  • Designed interfaces in Photoshop, Flash, NotePad++, Corel Paint Shop X2, Image Ready &Word press.  • Maintained and developed e-commerce website using PHP-based framework Magento, jQuery, HTML and CSS.  • Developed complex Web based UI using Struts Ajax and JavaScript.  • Responsible for both back-end programming in PHP and front-end functionality using JavaScript, Ajax, JQuerylibraries, and other technologies.  • Designed databases and structures for various Web sites.  • Involved with Zend module development and customization.  • Worked on PHP5, HTML/CSS, Ajax/JavaScript, SVN, GIT and MySQL and Apache, demonstrating vast LAMP architecture experience.  • Properly documented and gave support to clients to maintain and up- date their sites per the roadmaps they provided. Demonstrated excellent written and verbal communication skills as well as presentation skills.  • Expert PHP Development utilizing Zend, CakePHP, CodeIgniter and Symphony frameworks.  • Implemented AJAX and JQUERY on front-end to make the web page more dynamic.    Environment: PHP, Linux, Apache, MySQL, LAMP, Word press, Magento, HTML, Ajax, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, and Git Web Developer/PHP Developer Sanofi - Bridgewater, NJ September 2010 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  • Active Solving of day to day ticket's in fixed time slots.  • Always ensures that important Tasks/Projects received consistently meet deadlines.  • Providing services in planning, processing and performing in an efficient manner.  • Designed and Implemented an AJAX e-mail subscription and info-bar pop-up Magento modules  • Development experience with Zend, Net Beans, Notepad++, JEdit.  • Used advanced level of HTML, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts (table less layout).  • Modification and customization of the Drupal and Word Press themes.  • Worked on HTML5/CSS and JQuery in a Drupal based CMS environment  • Performed image/graphic slicing and optimization using Adobe Photoshop.  • Used JIRA, Stash, Bamboo, Confluence Project development tools  • Extensively participated on working with Spring framework. Involved in writing JSP and Servlets.  • Involved in development of Web Services, were developed to receive client requests.  • Implemented Spring JDBC template, Spring Exception Strategy and AOP.  • Involved in setting up WebSphere Application server and using Ant tool to build the application and deploy the application in WebSphere Application server.  • Design, Development and testing of Java framework to transfer data from application to CIS and also from CIS to application.  • Worked with the creation of Store Procedures. Involved in writing SQL queries, Stored Procedures to accomplish complex functionalities.  • Part of team creating quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  • Developed Reusable classes in the middleware using Hibernate.  • Involved in writing lots of JSP for maintains and enhancements of the application. Worked on Front End using Servlets and also backend using EJB and Hibernate.  • Worked on Presentation Layer using Struts Tiles, JSPs and Servlets.  • Created quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  • Setting of DB2 build settings in RAD application development server.  • Involved in writing the database integration code using Hibernate.  • Creation of managed server and JDBC connections.  • Worked on the application using Rational Application Developer.  • Worked on the application using Rational Application Developer. Designed & Developed Application flow UML diagrams of the application using Rational Rose.    Environment: PHP5, HTML5,Drupal7, Zend Framework, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS3, MYSQL, BitBucket, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Flash Professional, Bash, DKAN, Report Builder, Ubuntu 12.04, LAMP, Magento, WordPress, YII, MYSQL, Agile, Jenkins, Grunt, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML/ XHTML, XML, Moodle. PHP Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC March 2008 to August 2010 Responsibilities:  • Developed GUI screens for XTT & LD application using JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Development UI modules using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  • Wrote various PHP scripts in the header, footer, multiple contact pages, etc  • Responsible for both back-end programming in PHP and front-end functionality using JavaScript, Ajax, JQuerylibraries, and other technologies.  • Wrote JavaScript functions to get Dynamic data and Client side validation.  • Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the Javascript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Developed PHP based server side API using Zendframework and implemented MVC architecture.  • Created front end interface using object oriented JavaScript and AJAX with API The front end interface is able to interact with server side PHP code which is called by using REST API through AJAX. The JSON data sets returned are then rendered in appropriate format such as pdf, xls, csv and charts.  • Strong expertise in Web Application development using PHP with OOPs, CVS, SVN, MySQL, MS SQL Server JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, CSS, Flash ActionScriptand XML.  • Implemented a Node.js server to manage authentication.  • Created Node.js middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework Worked with JSON objects and JavaScript and JQuery intensively to create interactive web pages.  • Implemented web based front-end using HTML, CSS, JQuery, and AngularJS  • Involved in developing the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  • Rich UI development experience and well versed in client side technologies like AngularJS, jQuery, BackBone.js, Google Widget Toolkit, Sencha UI  • Developed HTML, Swing and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  • Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, Angularjs, JQuery and REST Services  • Designed and implemented UI layer using JSP, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, JSON, XML, XHTML, XSL, XSLT, XSL-FO and business logic using Servlets, JSP, EJBs and J2EE framework.  • Used Backbonejs, Node.js, Bootstrap and other javascript libraries to create intuitive and rich Single Page Applications.  • Used JQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  • Integrate the ExtJs/Sencha framework with Oracle BPM.  • Prepared statements are used for communication Sql database  • Involved in developing custom taglibs, JSP, EJB's, Portlets and DB2 - stored procedures.  • Involved in Requirement analysis, design and Implementation applying the Water fall model.  • Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.    Environment:LAMP, Zend Framework, PHP Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Apache Axis, WSDL, Netbeans, JBOSS, Mercurial, Coherence, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, Ant, XML, Jira, Swing, Cognos. Education Bachelor's