Corporate Development Manager Corporate Development Manager Web Developer Salt Lake City, UT Graphic designer/ Web developer with over 15 years experience in print and web work. Highly motivated, creative, and versatile. Exceptional interpersonal skills with team members and colleagues. Accomplished at incorporating the desires of the client with a superior design solution. Available to assist any company/business that demands high-quality design to further business as well as personal goals and professional image. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Corporate Development Manager Hot Tub Liquidators March 2018 to March 2019 Key Responsibilities  Maintain company websites, design and layout any marketing material as needed for sales or spa shows.  Create in-house S.O.P material. Custom code sales contract for Service Fusion CRM software. Web Developer On Target Media Inc March 2016 to February 2018 Key Responsibilities  Design, develop and maintain client websites, landing promotional pages and microsites.  Create client email templates for weekly campaigns. Create graphics, logos needed for any and all clients. Web Designer Stratosphere Hotel & Casino September 2015 to March 2016 Key Responsibilities  Design and develop all email campaigns. Design and maintain web content for the different properties.  ( Stratosphere, Arizona Charlies, Aquarius ) Assist designers with print design as needed. Motion Ad Developer Havas Helia July 2014 to June 2015 Key Responsibilities  Developed ash banners for clients like Liberty Mutual, Dish Network, Citi, Auto Zone among others. Graphic Designer/ Web Developer Prosperity Alliance, LLC October 2008 to May 2015 Key Responsibilities  Design and maintain websites. Any and all design/print work (ie, business cards, yers, logos..etc)  Developed two iphone/ipad apps which can be found in iTunes app store, search for: Marshallisms & Get Rich Radio  (Created all graphics and coding for both applications) Graphic Designer Ademphasis March 2008 to July 2008 Key Responsibilities  Worked onsite for a company called ActionCoach where the two month assignments varied from re-designing a 64 page  magazine, designing print collateral to basic html design for their existing website.  Back at Ademphasis of ce I redesigned three websites that included ash navigations/presentations. Senior Graphic Designer Las Vegas Review Journal July 2005 to March 2008 Key Responsibilities  Create conceptual ideas for logos and advertising from start to completion for the Review Journals Spanish  speaking publication "El Tiempo" as well as all their other magazine publications such as"Luxury" and "Polished". Education B.F.A in Multimedia The Art Institute of Las Vegas September 2003 to January 2007 Graphic Design Advanced Technologies Academy September 1996 to June 2000 Skills Wordpress, PHP, Javascript Links http://nine2nine.net