Freelance Web Developer Freelance <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Freelance Web Developer - Photography Oklahoma City Oklahoma City, OK Highly creative and multitalented Graphic Designer with extensive experience in multimedia, marketing and print design. Collaborative and interpersonal skills; Works well with others and has excellent written and verbal communication abilities. I am a quick study and open and willing to learn something new.. Passionate and inventive creator with the ability to compromise to achieve client satisfaction. Accustomed to performing in deadline-driven environments with an emphasis on working within budget requirements. Work Experience Freelance Web Developer Photography Oklahoma City - Oklahoma City, OK November 2017 to Present Responsible for coding and designing innovative logos and websites for Clients. The ability to write a well designed testable code, creating website layout or interface using HTML or CSS. Other duties include the integration of data from back-end services, creating and maintaining client/company documentation. Successfully maintained, expanded, scaled and modified said website, to client satisfaction.    Photography Oklahoma City, Ok Freelance-Professional Plushpassionforfashion.blog January 2006 to Present Confident and dedicated photographer with experience in both professional and freelance photography. Holds a little over 10 years of working experience with great variety in order to tackle any photography job quickly and effectively. Familiar in taking high quality digital photographs, including framing, selecting and setting up lighting. Prioritizes communication on the job to avoid errors. A candidate that combines a long professional career with dedicated freelance photography ideals and loyalty.  Key Achievements:  • Experienced in a mass variety of photography. Strong aesthetic eye. Understands the technical knowledge behind multiple camera programs. Exceptional communication, cooperation, and service skills. Critical thinking, analysis, and strong attention to small details are some of the strongest skills offered. Stylist Plush Passion For Fashion - Oklahoma City, OK January 2019 to May 2019 Oklahoma City, Ok  Plushpassionforfashion.blog  Multimedia Coordinator -Marketing Campaign Manager- Graphic Design- Web design-Stylist Jan. 2019 - May, 2019  Successfully manage and coordinate graphic design projects from concept through completion. Work closely with Management to create vision, conceive designs, and consistently meet deadlines and requirement. Effectively build, motivate, and direct design. Worked as freelance designer and Social Media persona. Consulted with Management and vendors to meet all project requirements and deadlines. Create and conduct highly persuasive sales and marketing presentations. Expertly convert features to benefits to achieve client objectives. Manageed all operational, events, strategic, quote/bid, staffing, and administrative functions.  Key Achievements:  • Successfully completed clients' projects under extremely tight deadlines.  • Provided proposal layout and design corporate contracts. I established trusting relationships with designers, vendors, and key clients. Education ASTEC Charter Highschool July 2010 Skills Illustrator, Lighting, Satisfaction, Ms project, Flash, Ms office, Html5, Acrobat, Excel, Outlook, Powerpoint, Word, Photoshop, Pagemaker, Mac, Mac os, Indesign Additional Information Technical Proficiency  Platforms: Mac OS, Windows  Tools:  Adobe Creative Suite (Photoshop, InDesign, Illustrator, Acrobat, Fireworks, PageMaker, Flash); MS Project, MS Office Suite (Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint, Outlook); HTML5    Skills  • Print  Brochures & Newsletters  Logos & Business Cards  Posters & Post Cards  Stationery  • PHOTOGRAPHY  Black & White Photography  Retouching  Photo Restoraiton  • WEB & Multimedia  Website Design  Video Editing  Video Photomontages  Social Media  Capture images as directed, taking all aspects into consideration, including outside lighting, shadows, and lens requirements.  Edit and pre-edit images to ensure they are high quality and properly color corrected.  Communicate effectively with clients or producers at all times to guarantee satisfaction and maximize chances of return business.  Direct photographer's assistants to complete administrative duties and provide assistance, while fostering their photography skills.  Surpassed outside client satisfaction average rates by eight percent within the first year.    Lorem ipsum dolor