Senior Web Developer Senior <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Web Developer Phoenixville, PA Work Experience Senior Web Developer Prometrics INC - King of Prussia, PA 2014 to 2019 Created, managed and updated Specialty Pharmacy Assistance for Review and Quality (SPARQ) front-end interfaces. Provided internal customer support to SPARQ database team members. Successfully coordinated and deployment process of all current SPARQ projects.  Representative contributions:  • Independently designed, implemented and tested Specialty Pharmacy for Review and Quality (SPARQ) web pages. Maintained and support SPARQ features including ASP.NET 4.5, SQL Server 2014, HTML5, CSS3, and JQuery. Constructed different stored procedures to perform functions in SPARQ front-end interfaces.  • Provided quick-fix responses to external and internal customers in nationwide locations.  • Independently deployed SPARQ release builds to their different specialty pharmacy websites during off-hours. Senior Software Engineer Unisys Corporation - Malvern, PA 2004 to 2012 Worked closely with the Engineering Service Business Office (ESBO) Board of Managers on harnessing technology to drive the achievement of business objectives. Administered all aspects of the Engineering Service Business Office (ESBO) database. Designed, implemented, tested, and managed ClearPath OS2200 Java Middleware JBoss, ClearPath MCP, Validator, Development Lab, and internet projects for the Open Source Development Department. Performed software package builds for development projects and lead up to 25 engineers on sysgen projects. Designated as the MS SourceSafe administrator.  Representative contributions:  • Devised, successfully presented to the ESBO Board of Managers, and implemented a solution which overcame obstacles, achieved ambitious objectives, and enhanced the utility and functionality of the ESBO website. The solutions received recognition and commendations from management.  • Streamlined financial tracking and risk analysis processes for financial business managers by developing programming and database enhancements.  • Led the ESBO Charting project that improved internal client support, enhanced financial tracking, and assisted top-level managers to access forecast and risk data.  • Implemented ESBO web-based projects including C#.NET, SQL Server 2000/2005 and ADO.NET.  • Independently coded ESBO graphs based on its statistical data including NETCharting, Visual Basic.NET, SQL Server 2000/2005 and ADO.NET.  • Independently implemented and tested ClearPath OS2200 JBoss projects including JAVA Installer IZPack.  • Maintained and support ESBO Custom Engineering online requests including classic ASP, Javascript, HTML5, CSS3, and VBscript. Provided quick-fix responses to ESBO Board of Managers.  • Designed and implemented Unisys Stealth Solution Storage install packages. Designed, coded, and tested Unisys Validator legacy tool, resulting in eliminating expensive overcharges for erroneous company orders to Dell.  • Facilitated revenue growth opportunities through designing and implementing 4 highly successful Unisys Knowledge Store install packages on time and on budget: 32-Bit Knowledge Server, 64-Bit Alpha-Based Knowledge Server, 64-Bit AMD-Based Knowledge Server, and Client Components.  • Independently designed, implemented, and tested the Kstore and Stealth Solution Storage InstallShield projects.  • Provided quick-fix responses to external and internal customers in worldwide locations. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science VILLANOVA UNIVERSITY - Villanova, PA Bachelor of Arts in Computer Science in Computer Science GALLAUDET UNIVERSITY - Washington, DC Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/josephmcginnisjr Additional Information ASP.NET 4.5 ? Web-based database applications (SQL Server 2014) ? Visual Basic.NET 4.5  Visual C#.5.0 ? SQL Server 2014 Reporting Services ? Power BI ? WordPress  Windows Presentation Foundation ? JavaScript ? VBScript ? HTML5 ? CSS3 ? JQuery  JIRA ? InstallShield Dev Studio ? InstallShield 2008 Professional ? InstallShield 2010 Premier  Java ? JBOSS ? IZPack ? ANT ? J2EE ? Hibernate ? Spring ? XML ? Eclipse  Microsoft Visual Studio 2013 ? SQL Server Management Studio 2014  Microsoft Visual SourceSafe 2005 ? Team Foundation Server  Microsoft SharePoint Server ? Windows build environments ? LINUX build environments