Front End UX Web Accessibility Developer Front End UX <span class="hl">Web</span> Accessibility <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End UX Web Accessibility Developer - CVSHealth East Windsor, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End UX Web Accessibility Developer CVSHealth November 2016 to Present • Extensive experience as a UX Web and Accessibility developer, solutions for accessible, standards-compliant, and cross-browser compatible websites and web applications. Managed content repositories and hand coding well-structured web pages using HTML5/CSS3 and AJAX/JavaScript.  • Front End Development, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Responsive Design.  • Strong experience in Responsive Web Applications using CSS3 Media Queries and CSS Bootstrap for different layout according to the user's device.  • Worked on the optimization of the CSS files using CSS preprocessors, LESS and SCSS.  • Working with Angular 1, 2,4 and 7 environments.  • Developing prototypes for mobile apps for pharmacy storefront.  • Developing prototypes for new E-commerce experience for desktop and mobile.  • Built out pages from scratch using Sketch mockups.  • Work with version control tools, SVN and GitLab.  • Tested and debugged code using IE tester, Chrome Inspector, Firebug and Safari Web Inspector  • Tested the completed pharmacy web application for compliance with U.S. Government Section 508 and Enterprise Web Accessibility Standards, as well as performing browser compatibility and quality assurance testing.  • Work as UX accessibility developer on release deployment for pharmacy site. Using NVDA and chrome vox.  • Extensive experience in agile development, scrum and waterfall methodologies. Mostly worked in JIRA and RTC.  • Responsible for fixing all bugs encountered and communicating back to QA team. Owner - Web & Print Design/ Developer Consultant Loup Group, NJ January 1998 to Present • Create usable HTML website templates from wire frames/designs to meet W3C and accessibility standards.  • Strong knowledge of user interface design processes and methodology.  • Knowledge of architecture-related software, Adobe Illustrator, Photoshop, Visio, InDesign, Dreamweaver and MS Office.  • Information architect work behind the scenes, taking into account not only the purpose and goals of the clients, but also the best way to articulate those purposes and goals to the target audience.  • Some responsibilities include, but are not limited to: development through, realistic plans that support organizational objectives, work with customers to understand their business models and goals and help define strategy, content, and features for design of their web sites, analyze audiences and their information and functional needs, define site architecture and navigation that serves as a blueprint of the site upon which all other aspects are built, and create wire-frames, site maps, feature lists, mock-ups, visual specification, working prototypes and other artifacts to describe the intended user experiences.    PROFESSIONAL AND PERSONAL SKILLS  • Proficient computer literacy proven through work experience in front-end development with strong focus on Accessible Web design and development, W3C Web Content Accessibility Guidelines, and Section 508 accessibility.  • Excellent communication skills, developed through experience working in a team environment with the ability to understand and communicate with team members  • Highly critical thinker with effective researching skills proven through project planning, establishing and administering accessibility testing programs, and remediating accessibility issues to ensure compliance with W3C Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and Section 508 accessibility standards  • Interpersonal and relationship building skills proven through work experience in commitment to team environment dynamics with ability to contribute expertise and follow leadership directives at appropriate times  • Flexible team-player who prospers in a fast-paced work environment based on past Front End Web Accessibility Developer Prudential February 2015 to December 2015 PIM Internet Strategy  • Extensive experience as a front-end Web and CSS developer, solutions for accessible, standards-compliant, and cross-browser compatible websites and web applications. Managed content repositories and hand coding well-structured web pages using HTML5/CSS3 and AJAX/JavaScript.  • Performed content management development using Exact Target and Vignette.  • Developed third-party applications that are integrated with the Exact Target email platform.  • Built out pages from scratch using Photoshop PSD mockups.  • Tested the completed web application for compliance with U.S. Government Section 508 and Enterprise Web Accessibility Standards, as well as performing browser compatibility and quality assurance testing.  • Maintenance of Prudential websites using Vignette Content Management. Front End Web Developer Vonage November 2013 to June 2014 • Responsible for the design, layout and coding of the Vonage website. Involved with the technical and graphical aspects of the website - how the site works and how it looks. Also involved with the maintenance and update of an existing site.  • Built HTML5 and CSS3 pages for the new responsive and mobile sites.  • Worked with JS and J Query plugins and integrated them into HTML pages.  • Wrote programming code, either from scratch or by adapting existing website software and graphics packages to meet business requirements.  • Work on debugging using tools such as Firebug and Chrome, test the website and identify any technical problems with in-depth understanding of cross-browser and front-end development issues.  • Work on content development for mobile devices with application of HTML5, CSS3 & media queries. Web Developer Bristol-Myers Squibb October 2011 to October 2013 • Partnered with the Interactive Studio Managers to ascertain client needs and provide innovative functional solutions for assigned projects.  • Created prototypes for new design concepts.  • Worked on multiple projects across various channels simultaneously to meet hard deadlines.  • Developed various interactive components and responsive widgets.  • Managed, developed emails and landing pages to solve client marketing communication needs.  • Knowledge of Microsoft SharePoint 2010.  • Knowledge of SDL Tridion CMS, maintenance and creation of new pages.  • Knowledge of Veeva Platform used for iPad. Web Developer Dow Jones & Company February 2011 to July 2011 • Created usable HTML/CSS website templates from wireframes/designs to meet W3C and accessibility standards and Corporate Style Guides.  • Solid experience on hand coding well-structured web pages using HTML5/CSS3 and AJAX/JavaScript.  • Followed direction through project briefs from Marketing Department and proactively assessed existing marketing pieces and recommended enhancements with a clear understanding of requesters' marketing goals, developing high-impact HTML and CSS emails, landing pages, product pages, interactive forms, online images, newsletters, blogs and approved materials to ensure creative alignment.  • Updated and maintained corporate website. Education Certification Rutgers University - Somerset, NJ 2015 to 2016 Information Technology Mercer County Community College - West Windsor, NJ 2009 to 2011 Programming Certificate Montclair State College - Montclair, NJ 2003 Skills Illustrator, Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, Api, Firebase, Bootstrap, Front End, Javascript, Front-End, CSS3, Angular, Node, Jquery, HTML5, Angularjs Links http://www.josephinepizzolato.com