Sales, Customer Service, Property Management Sales, Customer Service, Property Management Duluth, MN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sales, Customer Service, Property Management Lees Rental Company June 2002 to Present Responsibilities  I have several years of customer service experience and possess excellent customer service skills, record keeping, communication skills and telephone etiquette. I found solutions to any challenges tenants faced, aided sales, I completed office work using several of the latest programs, listened and found a viable solution to customers demands, filing, showed apartments to hundreds of potential tenants, securely landed over 50% percent of apartment leads, I have worked on numerous large scale commercial build outs in strip malls, meeting tenants, maintenance on commercial strip malls, filling tenant requests, flooring, detail work, I have helped move tenants to the new locations, gutted out apartments, apartment renovation, completely flipped a house and resold, shoveling, strip mall sweeping, commercial and residential lawn mowing, commercial building debri clean up, commercial parking lot striping. Lead Project Developer LUX Fitness and Community Center - Hibbing, MN Present I’ve been developing a community center for 2 years up in Hibbing,Mn. My father owns the property that I’ve been grateful to buildout and have the opportunity to help the greater good of our area. I designed the entire layout leading to us saving thousands. A nonprofit ended up taking it over. Web Developer January 2012 to April 2019 Responsibilities  I built and manage websites, www.LeesRentalCompany.com, www.MilestoneEmpire.com, I listed over 150 properties total in the last 5 years. There’s a Residential and Commercial section on the website with pictures and detailed info. E-commerce.  Skills Used  Eye for detail  1000 hours into sites.  Effectively Handled traffic in the 100s without website crash.  Effectively directed traffic from site A to Site B. Education Associates Bluegrass Community and Technical College Skills Web Developer (10+ years), Website manager, Office work, Website, Ecommerce, Social Media, Customer Service, Customer Experience, Front Desk, Call Center, Customer Care, Customer Service, Customer Experience, Front Desk, Call Center, Customer Care, CCC Awards Top door to door salesman for entire high school 2008-03 I went door to door for a Spanish fundraiser and sold over 200 items and collected over $2400 in 3 weeks, I was the top door to door salesmen out of the entire high school. Certifications/Licenses Finished 90 hour real estate course March 2013 to December 2014 I finished course and received certificates for a 90 hour course.