Web Development Manager <span class="hl">Web</span> Development Manager Web Development Manager - Eileen Fisher, Inc Work Experience Web Development Manager Eileen Fisher, Inc November 2008 to Present Built a dynamic team of Agile web/software developers by leading and mentoring team members. Provide timely guidance, feedback, and reinforcement to develop each individual team member. Establish and manage team objectives that align with organization objectives and strategies. Drive the development of short-term and long-term IT strategy by collaborating with business decision-makers as a Subject Matter Expert (SME) to achieve business objectives. Optimize development procedures by employing Agile/Scrum to meet deadlines, increase efficiency across all phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), and monitor budgets and spending to achieve cost goals. Manage project progress tracking, status reporting, and communication with business partners and stakeholders.  Key Achievements:  * Slashed $300K from the annual budget by spearheading projects in-house while negotiating additional discounts by cultivating strong relationships with wide network of vendors.  * Achieve continuous process and system improvements by integrating technical developments and innovative technology to increase productivity, enhance user experience, and improve system operation.  * Minimize project disruptions by successfully identifying and remove road blocks, risks, and other challenges.  * Recognized as a Subject Matter Expert for Business Partners throughout the project development lifecycle to ensure partners' needs are addressed. Senior Applications Developer & Project Manager MedPage Today, LLC May 2007 to October 2008 Spearheaded the front-end and back-end redesign of a medical news website by leading a team of three developers and effectively identifying problems to recommend and develop quality solutions. Led the development of multiple improvements, including the utilization of ColdFusion and PostgreSQL to enhance web traffic by improving the website and existing applications. Initiated and facilitated partnerships with vendors to achieve improvement objectives, such as collaborating with Adobe Acrobat to create and modify PDF files and monographs.  MedPage Today, LLC  Key Achievements:  * Successfully resolved data-traffic and bandwidth problems by migrating from in-house servers to externally hosted servers with higher bandwidths and by creating a ticketing system that enhanced user experience.  * Boosted revenue by integrating video streaming, which enabled the company to charge higher subscription fees.  * Improved website content management and live video broadcasting by creating a customized content management system (CMS). Senior Web Developer North Jersey Media Group April 2005 to May 2007 Developed websites and internal applications using PHP, MySQL, and other tools, to facilitate the achievement of business objectives. Trained and guided two developers to increase their skills and work productively in the design and development of web applications and management systems. Worked with clients to gather project requirements and business objectives, and to determine the scope of web development projects.  Key Achievements:  * Increased revenue by improving the client interface with an integrated a web directory feature that allows clients to enter information for print advertisements.  * Designed and developed diverse systems and applications for clients, including an internal business management system, a search engine for a doctors' database, and a corporate activity monitoring application. Lead Web Developer Modern Web Solution, LLC November 2000 to March 2005 Designed and implemented a wide range of systems to improve user experience, employing development languages such as ASP, VBScript, and Microsoft SQL. Created and implemented credit card and online payment systems, email processes, and online reservation forms to meet clients' business requirements. Achieved project goals, including timelines and budgets, by analyzing and optimizing project workflows and business operations. Web Development & Graphic Web Design Instructor The Cittone Institute 2002 to 2005 and a Systems Administrator for Grants Investor, Inc. (1997 - 2000). Education Bachelor of Science in Principles of Management in Microeconomics & Macroeconomics Alexandria University Skills FULL LIFE CYCLE, LIFE CYCLE, C#, Git, JAVASCRIPT Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/mgrmoustafa