Computer Analyst Computer Analyst Computer Analyst - Louisiana State University Baton Rouge, LA Work Experience Computer Analyst Louisiana State University - Baton Rouge, LA May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Database Support and Web Development: Updates, migrates, and/or consolidates multiple databases in the SVM. Understands MS Access and MSSQL, competent in the latest mobile web languages (e.g. HTML, CSS, Jquery, Bootstrap, with .NET framework (ASP.NET C#) for front end and ADO.NET/ Entity framework) and builds web portals to the databases (e.g. Equine, BioMMed, Student Affairsx2, Theriogenology, Veterinary Teaching Hospital).  • Application Support: Supports several different applications, such as hospital electronic medical records, clinical pathology laboratory information system, and the diagnostic laboratory information management system. Works with the manufacturers to resolve problems. Generates reports using SQL. Provides server maintenance, set up, backs-ups, etc.  • Responsible for the updating and managing of software and database packages for the School of Veterinary Medicine (SVM). Web Developer KPM Softech - Pune, Maharashtra November 2014 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Design, and build responsive Web Pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, with .NET framework (ASP.NET C#) for front-end and ADO.NET/ Entity framework for back-end.  • Implemented design, development and deployment of websites in the Company.  • Develop and support new user interface and overall customer experience for corporate websites and content management application.  • Ensure a user-oriented design, functionality, completeness, accuracy, and timely releases.  • Assist in the demonstration and testing of enhancements to the web sites.  • Maintenance and enhancements of web and digital assets for related websites. Education Master of Computer Application in Computer Application Savitribai Phule Pune University - Pune, Maharashtra June 2013 to April 2016 Bachelor of Computer Application in Computer Application Veer Narmad South Gujarat University - Surat, Gujarat June 2010 to April 2013 Skills Asp.Net MVC C# (3 years), ASP.Net Core (Less than 1 year), ADO.Net (3 years), Entity (2 years), JQuery (3 years), JavaScript (3 years), Bootstrap (3 years) Additional Information Skills    • HTML, CSS  • Working with Telerik Controls.  • Website Maintenance  • Microsoft SQL Server 2005 and above  • Tools like Visual Studio, Photoshop, Dream Viewer.