Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer • Having 4.3 years of experience in Software Development.    • Hands-on experience in .NET Framework.    • Hands-on experience in ASP.NET, C#.NET, ASP.NET MVC, SQL Server 2008, LINQ, HTML.    • Hands-on experience in developing the RESTful services using ASP.NET Web API.    • Hands-on experience in developing UI using Angular Js framework.    • Hands-on experience in integration and management of content using Umbraco.    • Good communication and interpersonal skills and having the ability to work as part of a team.  • Quick to learn and adapt to new technologies, ability to complete tasks with minimal direction. Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Tech Mahindra November 2017 to December 2018 ACCOMPLISHMENTS  • ACE award for successively being assessed as an 'eXcellent' performer (the highest rating) in the Annual Appraisal Process for 2015-16 & 2016-  17 at Tech Mahindra.  • Awarded as 'Digital Warrior'  implemented for PoC of mobile application development & offline web application sync-up. The client is impressed with her work & extended the PO)  • Awarded POB (Pat on Back) reward as appreciation of work and customer management skills during delivery of CWIND Application.  • Awarded SPOT award from Delivery Head for depicting a very good learning curve.  PROJECT DETAILS Web Application Developer ValueLabs - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2017 to December 2018 Environment: IIS7.5, VS 2017, Umbraco  Technologies: .NET 4.5, ASP.NET MVC, C#, JQuery, Sql Server 2017, ASP.Net web api    Description:  This web application is an education portal that creates an interface for the United Kingdom Army officials to take up courses from Henry University. It  helps the officials to choose, learn, keep a track and achieve degree from the university without attending the class work physically.    Roles & Responsibilities  • Developing Web Pages & enabling content management.  • Involved in writing the Web API services, unit testing and database management  • Involved in Bug Fixing. Web Application Developer Tech Mahindra - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2016 to October 2017 Environment: IIS7.5, VS 2013  Technologies: .NET 4.5, ASP.NET MVC, C#, Angular JS, Sql Server 2012, ASP.Net web api    Description:  This web application is a project management tool which helps the managers at Client location in tracking the status of SOW's performed at the Offshore  Development Centre (ODC, Tech Mahindra, India) through status reports and KPI's. Thus helping in regulating the off-shored projects for planning and scheduling. This is a Generic application which can be customized for minor UI changes, so as to meet requirements of any Client.    Roles & Responsibilities  • Developing Web Pages & functionality as per the business requirements.  • Involved in writing the Web API controllers.  • Involved in Bug Fixing. Software Engineer Tech Mahindra - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2014 to October 2017 2) Organization: ValueLabs LLP, Hyderabad Mobile App Developer Tech Mahindra - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2016 to April 2016 Environment: Android & IOS  Technologies: HTML, JavaScript, JQuery  Description:  This application was developed for Android and IOS mobile users to provide them with a platform to virtually accessorize their vehicles with various  accessories and try various combinations from the available libraries. The selected choice of vehicle can be viewed in complete 360 degree angles.    Roles & Responsibilities  • Developed a hybrid mobile app using HTML, JavaScript & JQuery.  • Deployed an IOS version using Xcode. Developer Tech Mahindra - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2015 to December 2015 Environment: NX Unigraphics  Technologies: C#  Description:  NX is a Product Engineering Software which accelerates the product engineering by providing wide range of powerful features for computer-aided  manufacturing (CAM), tool design. With leading-edge design tools and technologies, NX streamlines and accelerates the product development process.    Roles & Responsibilities  • Worked on migrating modules of NX Siemens PLM software from C++ to C# and performed enhancements on the already converted modules in C#, for a reputed client.  • Built, tested and deployed scalable, highly available and modular software products. Web Application Developer Tech Mahindra - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2015 to August 2015 Environment: ASP.NET (Framework 2)  Technologies: C#  Description:  NC Programming is an internal client application of Aerospace & Defense engineering domain.  The application was developed so as to have a web enabled tool for managing, tracking and coordinating statement of works under the responsibility of the Tech Mahindra and Client Administrators.    Roles & Responsibilities  Developed features across multiple subsystems within our applications, including collaboration in requirements definition, design, coding, unit testing and application deployment (using HTML, CSS, ASP.Net, Entity Framework 6, LINQ, SQL Server 2008). Education Bachelor Of Technology in Technology National Institute Of Technology - Warangal, Telangana Skills Visual studio, C#, Html, Asp.net web api, Scripting, Svn, Sql, Asp, Iis, Asp.net, Mvc, jquery Additional Information SOFTWARE SKILLS    Technologies ASP.Net MVC, ASP.NET Web API, Umbraco    Languages C, C#    Markup Languages HTML    Scripting Languages / Frameworks Java Script, JQuery, Angular JS  Version Control Tools Tortoise SVN, TF    Web Server IIS 7.0,7.5    Tools and Utilities Visual Studio 2012&2013, Jira    RDBMS SQL Server 2008 R2    Architectures N-Tier, MVC    Concepts OOPS