Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Datagroup Technologies Greenville, NC My superior focus and attention to detail combined with my extensive knowledge of web programming using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, SQL, AJAX, jQuery, PHP (Procedural PDO and OOP), PHP Framework (Laravel), VueJS, Vuex and VueRouter makes me an exceptional choice.  In my previous role as a Web Developer, I have developed web-based applications from design to coding and full implementation. I have also developed some desktop applications used by education and pharmaceutical sectors. By relying on solid programming knowledge as well as excellent oral and verbal communication I have consistently produced terrific code within customer-set deliverable time frames. I bring a Bachelor’s Degree in Information Technology along with regular updates. My abilities to produce excellent code and to clearly communicate and collaborate with clients and management have led to company successes. I have years of Web Developing experience (Backend and Frontend) and am committed to staying up-to-date with all technological advancements. All of my qualifications make me an exceptional candidate for a Web Developer position.    SPECIALTIES: HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, AJAX, PHP (Procedural PDO and OOP), PHP Framework (Laravel) Framework, VueJS, Vuex, and VueRouter. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Developer Datagroup Technologies 2018 to Present Technologies: Laravel, VueJs, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, SQL, Bootstrap, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery  ? Working with the development team to build out new features and products.  ? Participating in team meetings (SCRUM meeting), providing input and suggestions.  ? Troubleshooting the cause of bugs and implementing solutions where needed  ? Developed project concepts and support optimal workflow.  ? Developing RESTful APIs.  ? Using Vue.js for front-end development and Laravel for backend development.  ? Participate in the entire application lifecycle, focusing on coding and debugging.  ? Creating clean interfaces and clean, intuitive interactions and experiences. Backend Web Developer Ptas Solutions International Limited 2015 to 2017 Technologies: PHP, HTML5, CSS3, SQL, Bootstrap, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery and JAVA SE  ? Developed project concepts and support optimal workflow.  ? Integration of user-facing elements developed by a front-end developer with server side logic.  ? Handing Data migration, transformation, and scripting.  ? Troubleshoot and debug applications.  ? Participate in the entire application lifecycle, focusing on coding and debugging.  ? Created clean interfaces and clean, intuitive interactions and experiences.  ? Conducted quality assurance tests to discover error and optimize usability.  ? Attend client meetings to learn about the development of project scopes.  ? Contacted clients to obtain more information and discuss design options. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Himalayan University 2016 Diploma in Software Engineering Aptech Computer Education - Delhi, Delhi 2016 Skills Javascript, Bootstrap, Oop, Php, Laravel, Html5, jquery, Sql, Ajax, MYSQL, CSS, HTML 5, Git Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/somoyetosin Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  * HTML5 * CSS3 * JavaScript * JQuery * SQL * Bootstrap * AJAX * PHP (Procedural PDO and OOP)  * PHP Framework (Laravel) * NodeJS * VueJS