Marist Web Services - Student Web Developer Marist <span class="hl">Web</span> Services - Student <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Marist Web Services - Student Web Developer Poughkeepsie, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Marist Web Services - Student Web Developer Marist College January 2017 to May 2019 Developed and supported various aspects of marist.edu and Marist College's other web- based services. Projects include development of a PHP-based web app used to schedule  faculty workshops, and front-end development on a new website for the Institute of Data  Center Professionals. Student Web Programmer IBM Joint Study - Poughkeepsie, NY August 2018 to December 2018 Developed a prototype web interface for a machine learning application intended to help students improve the quality of their writing. Integrated the Watson Natural  Language Understanding API’s to provide students with additional feedback on their  writing. Engineering Intern Anheuser-Busch InBev June 2015 to August 2015 Completed engineering projects to improve plant efficiency. Produced drawings for and oversaw production and installation of a raised steel platform used to access machinery for maintenance. Designed a hardware solution used to count the number of cans  dropped from one of the lines and integrated it with existing plant infrastructure. Education Bachelor of Science in Software Development Marist College - Poughkeepsie, NY May 2019 Chemical Engineering University of Alabama - Tuscaloosa, AL August 2014 to May 2016 Skills Object Oriented Programming (4 years), Software Development (4 years), Database Development (3 years), MySQL (3 years), PostgresSQL (2 years), Data Structures (3 years), Algorithm Design & Analysis (2 years), HTML (4 years), PHP (4 years), Javascript (4 years), HTML 5, Git, jQuery Links http://linkedin.com/in/benjaminjenkins1 http://github.com/benjaminjenkins1 Additional Information Personal Project: Applause - Feb 2019 - Present  Developed an audience approval tracking and web analytics platform which provides  website owners with a better understanding of how engaging and meaningful their users find their content. Website owners can register their domain and place a script on each of their pages which tracks page views and referrals, and allows end-users to ”give applause” for an article, indicating their approval of its content. Reports containing the collected data are viewable in the app’s dashboard.  • Technologies: Python, Flask, PostgreSQL, SQLAlchemy ORM  • Link: https://applauseapp.io    Capstone Project: Marist Writing Advisor Dec 2018  Designed and built a PHP-based web application which integrates elements of the prototype interface I developed with IBM Joint Study into a system which allows  students to access, use, and improve the Writing Advisor application.  • Technologies: PHP, Python, MySQL, Docker    Academic Project: BenOS Sep - Dec 2018  Developed a browser-based 6502 CPU emulator and operating system. Implemented a console, shell, filesystem, and other common operating system features.  • Technologies: TypeScript  • Link: https://benjen.me/webapps/6502    Skills:  Database: MySQL, PostgreSQL  General: Data Structures, Algorithms, Object Oriented Programming    Relevant Courses:  Software Development, Algorithm Analysis and Design, Database Management, Computer Organization and Architecture, System Design, Operating Systems, Internetworking, Formal Languages and Computability