Web Developer/Freelance <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Freelance Web Developer/Freelance - Hendy Zero Development Cypress, TX To assist a company in furthering their mission of success and be part of a team where I can learn and grow as a Web Developer. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer/Freelance Hendy Zero Development 2018 to Present Landing page for developer seeking clients.    • Well-rounded worker adapting time and energy to the needs of the company.  • Learned new technologies as they arouse in the field.  • Maintained a professional appearance and adhered to company policies.  • Meet and greet people seeking or in need of a website.  • Able to take design and recreate with html and css.  • Able to take complex things and explain them in a simple manner.  • Teach customer a few minor details so that they are able to operate on their own. Web Developer/Blogger Desired Promise 2016 to 2018 Hair care and natural beauty products website.    • Created bond and understood client's mission before starting projects  • Created one article a week  • Assisted in search engine optimization  • Created wordpress and ecommerce site and assisted in transition to new CMS  • Uploaded pictures of products  • Made sure process is as pain free as possible by helping client understand the process  • Helped client become comfortable with managing portions of site Weather Observer U.S. Navy 2008 to 2010 Processed, faxed, and/or mailed orders for Business Service Division contract customers.    • Assisted pilots, bases, and ships with weather observations.  • Created and presented 5 power point presentations a month.  • Gave daily weather briefs to a medium sized group of at least 50 people.  • Entered 40 customer orders daily and forecasts.  • Updated documents and completed projects.  • Answering phones, routing calls and taking messages.  • Supported office organization, which included filing and completing other administrative tasks as assigned.  • Lead a group of airmen in satisfying Fleet Weather Center's commands. Education Associates in Liberal Arts Degree in Liberal Arts Houston Community College 2016 to 2019 Front-End Grow with Google Developer Scholarship in Computer Science Udacity - Houston, TX February 2018 to April 2018 Skills Javascript, Wordpress, Angular, PHP, React, HTML, CSS Links https://github.com/kbhenderson http://kristopherhenderson.com Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E-4 Additional Information SKILLS    HMTL CSS WordPress Git  Bootstrap Sass PHP Github  React Angular SEO Webpack  Node Javascript JQuery Yarn