Full-Stack Web Developer Full-Stack <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full-Stack Web Developer - CoCreate Consulting New York, NY Work Experience Full-Stack Web Developer CoCreate Consulting - New York, NY January 2019 to Present Forked an existing open source web application and modified it to incorporate business logic  around user logins - adding authentication and wallet management. Implemented using Node and Angular.  ? Learned AWS from scratch - set up hosting for the web app on AWS EC2 and MySql on AWS  RDS. Made domain publicly available using AWS Route 53 and added HTTPS via CloudFront.  ? Communicated with non-technical stakeholder about issues around design and cross-browser  compatibility, especially CSS issues with Safari.  ? Built cryptocurrency wallet web application to facilitate transactions and usage of new  cryptocurrency as payments for a meetup group.  ? Built with HTML, CSS, Javascript, Angular JS and Node.js. Connected to MySQL database.  Hosted on EC2 instance with AWS RDS MySQL database.  ? Wrote medium article detailing problem that application was tackling along with the solution  it presented. Included some technical details of project:  ? https://medium.com/@fullstackdevelop/tokenizing-meetup-com-70dfe48df57 Cryptocurrency Trader Self Employed - New York, NY September 2017 to December 2018 Utilized open-source trading bot Gekko (https://github.com/askmike/gekko) to automate  trades and perform market analysis. Deployed on Google Cloud Compute Engine instance via  docker container to keep it running 24/7  ? Analyzed market trends using various methods including: support/resistance levels, social  media sentiment, Volume Profile, trend analysis, and stochastic RSI for market analysis Full-Stack Web Developer New York City Department of Records - New York, NY September 2015 to October 2016 Worked in an agile development cycle with 2 week sprints.  ? Developed city web applications in Python with Flask framework, both public facing and internal.  ? Taught and worked alongside college-aged interns from the City's SYEP program in developing our flask applications.  ? Utilized Flask, Python, Java, Javascript, Jquery, Ajax, PostgreSQL and Linux terminal.  ? Wrote development articles on my team's confluence wiki page detailing how to do many of the functions I performed.  ? Designed and implemented applications with RESTful API for performance, scalability, and modifiability.  ? Worked on OpenRecords project with development team which was a public facing web  application designed to serve publicly available government documents. Worked on frontend  and backend components of the app written in Python, Flask, Html, CSS, Javascript, PostgreSQL  ? Worked on Timeclock project to modernize NYC Records Department's clock in/out system.  Collaborated on team and worked on frontend and backend components with Python, Flask, html, css, javascript, PostgreSQL. Education Bachelor's degree in Computer Science in Computer Science New York University - New York, NY March 2016 Skills C++, CONTENT MANAGEMENT, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, PHP, PYTHON, FLASK, CLOUDFRONT, ELASTIC BEANSTALK, EC2, MYSQL, POSTGRESQL, CSS, JAVA, CONTENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM, WORDPRESS Additional Information SKILLS    ? Programming Languages: Python, Java, C++  ? Frontend: HTML, CSS, Javascript, Nodejs, Angular JS, PHP, Jinja2  ? Backend: Flask, PostgreSQL, MySQL  ? Content Management System: Wordpress  ? Cloud Computing Services:  • AWS: RDS, EC2, Elastic Beanstalk, Cloudfront, Route 53, ACM  • Google Cloud: Google Compute Engine instances