Partner Product Director of Engineering/Scrum Master Partner Product Director of Engineering/Scrum Master Partner Product Director of Engineering/Scrum Master - www.v1.co Work Experience Partner Product Director of Engineering/Scrum Master www.v1.co - San Francisco, CA March 2018 to Present • Billion-dollar product leader in e-commerce tech design and production for new businesses and products that leverage the partner's core assets to grow faster and scale relationships. Developing responsive components for marketing teams in a controlled environment with a team of 30 developers.  • Scrum Master to Facilitate sprint planning, daily scrums, and Scrum of Scrums, retrospectives and software demos. Sharing agile ways to stakeholders and developers in ways to improve movement with full implementation, Drives Software Delivery, Conflict management Experience, Risk and Issue Management and project closure.  • Working side-by-side at a high level with stakeholders to discuss product feedback with two-way communication by writing reports, slack channel tracking along with monitoring the workflow for final sign-offs and conducting demos for the partner's products in production for approvals along with estimation and planning.  • Taking pride in the listen to more approach and asking the questions of "why?" with SMART impact values for the SAFE values alignment, built-in quality, transparency, for building a program of execution to represent the fundamental beliefs that are key to SAFe's effectiveness from the entire organization business building.  • Duties to meet with cross-functional teams and project managers to discuss business needs to meet business goals in 2-week sprint cycles along with 1-on-1's with engineers and monitored the release management flow.  • Updating Trello cards and Jira tickets with the product backlog and Jira components.  • Wrote reports based on stakeholders' feedback from the product meetings to share with management to create a plan of action on any needed topics necessary to satisfy the partner's needs in a timely manner. Created power points presentations, financial funnels, worked from smartsheets, speaking in front of large groups to explain companies' roadmaps.  • AB testing for multiple product pages and page tracking by every user touch movements through Heap.  • Tool used for development and communications where Slack, Tello, Confluence, Jira, Bitbucket, Heap, AWS, GraphQl, MS Office, BEM, CSS3, React.Js, Node.js, Gulp, and HTML5. Used Docker for image load balancing to cache images to run build times faster. Sr. Lead Frontend Web Developer/Scrum Master goToMeeting.com, goToAssist.com January 2015 to March 2018 • www.citrix.com / www.logmein.com Billion dollar e-commerce product leader in the tech industry for video conferencing software that includes, goToMeeting.com, goToAssist.com, xenMobile, goToWebinar, Citrix Workspace Cloud, logmein, goToMyPC.com and more.  • Senior frontend developer working in a Agile Scrum environment along with sharing Scrum duties and shared Scrum of Scrums, on Adobe CQ5 platform, Bright Spot and SiteCore. Developing responsive templates for marketing team in Environment with a team of 20 developers.  • SAFE practices with core of the team to stakeholders with Portflio, Value Stream, Program and Team in helping help dictate behavior and action for everyone for our the team success for more solutions.  • Responsible for leading daily Scrum ceremonies backlog grooming, Sprint planning, team demos along with retrospectives. Managing the product backlog while working closely with Project Managers.  • Working close with vendors to hire contractors while staying a quarterly budget for estimation and planning.  • Duties to meet with cross-functional teams and project managers to discuss business needs and to meet business goals in 2-week sprint cycles.  • Created power points presentations, financial funnels, spoke in front of large groups to explain companies' roadmaps along with changing updating content on the company's website. AB testing for multiple product pages. Simultaneously writing code with the developers and designers to help meet hard deadlines.  • Jira, GitHub, Google Adwords, MS Office, Confluence, Hip Chat, Optimizely, BEM, CSS3, Jquery, Node.js, Gulp, and HTML5  • Negotiating with vendors, running bi-weekly sprint meetings while working closely with stakeholders and project managers along with keeping the team from outside distractions and interferences. Scrum Master/Project Manager & Web Developer Manager (Talener) moagency.com - Burbank, CA April 2014 to August 2014 • Scrum Master & Developer for one of the top creative companies in the United States. Creating a state-of-the-art interactive web design for the entertainment industry such as XBOX and EA Sports. Television networks such as NBC, ABC, FOX and more. Creating high traffic pages for almost every major film distributor for blockbuster motion pictures.  • Responsible for leading daily Scrum ceremonies backlog grooming, Sprint planning, team demos along with retrospectives. Managing the product backlog while working closely with Project Managers.  • Created the Agile environment as a Scrum Master and Agile Coach while working as a Senior frontend developer. Duties on Adobe CQ5 platform, Bright Spot, .NET and SiteCore. Developing responsive templates for the marketing team in the Environment with a team of 20 developers.  • Managed teams full lifecycle of projects in the code base of html5, bootstrap, css3, Jquery, JqueryUI, PHP, Node.js, Gulp and Require.js for responsive design and other projects with Angular.  • Scrum leader for standups meeting in an agile and daily scrum setting. Logging the status for project flows and who was responsible for each project. Organized data and model information for use in key decision-making.  • Full planning, implementation, and project closure.  • Encouraged team collaboration and motivated individual employees through positive reinforcement and technical recognition while monitoring the release management flow.  • Shield the team from outside distractions and interferences.  • Working close with vendors to hire contractors while staying within budget.  • I created the agile culture from the ground up and trained the company along with stakeholders on how to adapt to scrum methodologies and showing team Journey presentations.  • Responding to change overflow plans, customer collaboration, contract negations with new vendors to meet budgets, training people on ticketing tools.  • Collaboration with stakeholders and offshore meetings.  • Raised the level of motivation for the team as to follow the roadmap to release after a clear vision has been set in place to start sprints and run team standups. UI Web Developer (Prosum) www.fox.com - Playa Vista, CA July 2013 to April 2014 • Frontend UI Developer for Fox entertainment known as a worldwide leader in its brand Fox FX, 21 Century Fox, Fox Television and msn.FoxSports.com  • Java environment on a CQ5 platform taking rich UI designs and developing a full lifecycle of projects in HTML5, CSS3, Jquery, Bootstrap and Java for responsive design working in an agile and daily scrum setting with Jira task updates. Scrum Master & Lead UI Web Developer www.us.toshiba.com - Irvine, CA October 2011 to July 2013 • Lead UI Developer for US Toshiba e-commerce division one of the top 50 companies in the world.  • Developed a new customer-facing website for parts and replacements for online products.  • Developed business new look and feel web portal using media queries with JavaScript, HTML5, and CSS3 in on a Java platform.  • I was the first to incorporate Scrum daily standups for the agile environment.  • Facilitate sprint planning, daily scrums, retrospectives and software demos. Sharing agile ways to stakeholders and developers in ways to improve movement.  • Advised management about engineering concerns for in-development projects to meet hard deadlines.  • Transfer old Bugzilla ticket system to migrate into new Teamsite.  • Created the Agile environment as a Scrum Master and Agile Coach while working as a Senior frontend developer. Scrum duties teaching PM and PO how to follow the Agile way of scrum and how to build teams that would scale development for the product road maps. This improvement allowed the team and stakeholders to follow the project and 2 week sprint full of task to make sure the team would make the deadlines and to control time by giving push back to any work or roll it over based on lack of resources or under/over estimating the effort of work. Lead UI Web Developer Churchdwight.com - Vancouver, WA April 2011 to October 2011 • Lead UI Developer for #1 Vitamin Company in the world.  • Update coded and maintained the company's main corporate website along with 6 more company websites, Arm & Hammer, Nutrition Now, Oxi Clean, Trojan, Xtra, and Orajel.  • Duties included coding in CSS, CSS3, jQuery and PHP with MySQL.  • Developing UI animations, marketing email mailers, forms for MySQL captures, responsive design, flash banners for click codes, strict cross-browser consistency, health calculators, and graphic design with Photoshop.  • Language translations from English to Spanish. UI Web Developer www.redhat.com - Portland, OR November 2010 to March 2011 • Redhat.com | The World's Open Source Leader in Linux Technology.  • Professional Freelance directing companies with expert advice to solving their web problems. Building JBoss Enterprise Middleware with a new frontend technology ExtJS a high-end JavaScript library building software platforms for Nike, IBM, Jaspersoft, RHEL (Red Hat Enterprise Lynux) managing the server builds and more.  • Part of a team that built the Nike FuelBand wristband website with HTML5, Jquery, CSS3 and FreeMarker templates with CQ5. This web portal is for capturing data from the user to keep track of how much calorie fuel has been burned from the users daily workout activities. Web Developer Manager -- Freelance www.oaktree.com - Portland, OR April 2010 to October 2010 Webmaster for the Oregon State Treasury  Ongoing maintenance updates to the www.ost.state.or.us and all of the state affiliate's websites.  Duties are to update new images, content and new page creation using HTML, CSS and ASP in a 24hr to 48hr turn around. Web Developer -- Freelance www.wk.com - Portland, OR January 2010 to September 2010 • Wienden & Kennedy the world's largest full-service, creatively driven advertising agency based in Portland, Oregon. We have offices all around the world, including Amsterdam, London, New York, Tokyo, Shanghai, São Paulo and Delhi. Building complete websites for Coke, EA-Sports, Nike(www.nikebetterworld.com), Converse, Target, Dodge, Old Spice, and Levi's.  • Duties where building cross platform websites at and high-level using SVN, CSS3, CSS, HTML5, Jquery, Javascript, Ajax & PHP along with Photoshop and language translations. Lead Web Developer www.500lb.com - Portland, OR May 2009 to June 2010 • One of Oregon's complete marketing companies using a system combining all the elements of the creative process, email marketing, search engine marketing, customer relationship management, web application development , and web analytics. Combining these elements with the technology to integrate them all.  • Built complete websites for companies such as www.adelantecapitalmanagement.com, www.lombardiacapital.com and www.octc.org, using Joomla, PHP, MySQL, CSS, XHTML, Javascript, photoshop.  • Developed e-mail marketing templates for clients for software such as Exact Target, MailChimp My Emma, and Lyris for customers to send out email marketing updates for latest sales and tracking codes for customers. Software Developer -- Freelance www.atsigroup.com - Portland, OR November 2009 to January 2010 • Developed company's website for intercoll.com for school learning activities for teaching in a virtual chatroom for teachers and students.  • Using PHP, Flash, MySQL, Photoshop, HTML and admin pages for passwords for students and teachers Discover-e Computer Operator -- Contract (RHT) www.discover-e-legal.com - Portland, OR February 2009 to September 2009 • One of Oregon's Fastest-growing technology companies is a premier provider of litigation-grade electronic discovery services to law firms and litigation for support professionals.  • Duties: developed links for pages for multi page articles for the company main website. Developed the company's intranet for e-learning use the company network to deliver training courses to employees, by using the Wiki cms package that described the company's production process for completing litigation development with DE-7 software. Tools used for this were Photoshop, Flash, MySQL, PHP, CSS, xhtml, and JQuery.  • Developed a math calculation tool for a file load timing process.  • Developed a PDF storage unit in MySQL to keep track of the DE-7 clients. Web Developer -- Freelance www.fatchicksfloatwell.com - Portland, OR July 2009 to August 2009 • Author of an autobiographical book by Kate Haslach.  • A small website created & designed for her using Photoshop, CSS, XHTML, and PHP based on a small budget so viewers can come and see and read pages of her book to get viewers to download a PDF order form. Webmaster Contract (RHT) www.eurorscg.com - Portland, OR March 2008 to February 2009 One of the major award winning leaders in web design. Developed Adobe's CS3 & CS4 product website along with Astrive.com and www.bgidcsolutions.com/index.html websites, using CSS, xml, XHTML, FLEX-2, FLASH, jQuery, banners, PHOTOSHOP and with JOOMLA & MOJO BLOG content management software to link web pages together to navigate along with language translations. Webmaster Contract 1pointe9.com - Los Angeles, CA January 2006 to March 2008 Developed website using XHTML, JAVASCRIPT & PHP to create a portfolio for and artist with links to promote DVD designs for Hollywood motion pictures along with streaming video, using HTML, PHP, JAVASCRIPT, and CSS. Webmaster Jamah - Los Angeles, CA July 2005 to November 2006 Hollywood clothing design company that sells items using DHTML, XHTML, CSS, Ajax, JAVASCRIPT & PHP linking to connect to the PayPal shopping cart functionality along with password functionality for secret pdf downloads. Webmaster Mainstreet Technology - Los Angeles, CA July 2006 to September 2006 • Online computer chip company that collects information from there buyers for world wide distribution by collecting data and allowing users to view links to the company search engine after they have registered with a user name and password, by storing the users information in a MySQL database with PHP.  • Created admin tools to update the search engine for the client control panel, developed in PHP, XML, Ajax, MySQL, JAVASCRIPT, DHTML, XHTML. Including FLASH & graphic design. Webmaster Contract North Star Funding Group - Los Angeles, CA February 1999 to January 2006 Online home loan company that allows users to click on links to fill out a variety of forms stored in MySQL database to be approved for quick turnaround for funding using PHP, MySQL, XHTML, DHTML, CSS, FLASH & JAVASCRIPT along with the graphic design. Sr. Web Engineer - Consulting Metapa.net - Los Angeles, CA 2002 to August 2004 • Internet startup company, with a focus on e-commerce solutions for the ASP market place for holding media, text, and music content.  • Duties included taking art mockups and turning them into live web documents that included HTML, DHTML XML, PHP, CSS, JAVASCRIPT and coding JSP to be passed to JavaBeans for database functionality using Oracle. Project Web Manager - Consulting HomePage.Com - Los Angeles, CA February 2000 to October 2001 • As the nations leading E-Commerce web solution company homepage.com, provides B to B web pages for the largest companies worldwide which include: www.altavista.com, www.bet.com, www.iturf.com, www.icq.com, www.igrandparents.com, www.gurl.com, www.about.com, www.yupi.com, www.fox.com, www.thesimpsons.com, www.ontap.com, www.7thportal.com, www.backstreetboys.com and many more.  • Duties included overseeing a team of 8 web developers and distributing workflow in a professional structure for team management.  • Collaborated with personnel to assess project technical requirements.  • Wrote documents to set standards for layouts using raw HTML in complex tables while maintaining strict integrity for specific dimensions and cross-browser compatibility for linking from page to page. Coding included server side includes, CGI scripts, JAVASCRIPT, ASP pages. HTML Code Specialist - Consulting Etoys.com - Los Angeles, CA June 1999 to February 2000 • Maintaining a high-traffic e-commerce internet site for the largest online toy website for internet shoppers.  • Duties included developing new pages for the online store categories for links for the following: books, video games, baby clothes and children videos. Programming in HTML & JAVASCRIPT on a daily basis for website updates.  • Programs included HOMESITE 4.0, PHOTOSHOP 5.5 (wrote documents to set standards for layouts). Skills .net, Active server pages, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Typescript, Php, Svn, Ajax, Dreamweaver, jquery, Jrun, Html5, Sass, Ms access, Mysql, Bugzilla, Jira Links http://www.theperfectafro.com/webportfolio Additional Information Technical Skills:    PC & MAC: SEO, LESS, SASS, CSS3, BEM, HTML5, media queries, xhtml/html, ES6, JavaScript, jQuery, Node.js, Bootstrap, foundations, TypeScript, handlebars, Angular 5.0, Ajax, Gulp, NPM, RHEL, Require.js, PHP & MySQL, Epubs, Jrun Studio 3.5, Dreamweaver, Flash, Flex, AEM CQ5, Sitecore,Bright Spot, .NET, Active Server Pages, Pagemaker, Corel Draw, Quark, Photoshop, Bugzilla, SVN, Git Hub, Bit Bucket, EBOOK, ExtJS and Indesign.    Management Skills:    Agile/Scrum/Agile Coach, A-B Optimizely Testing, Jira, Confluence, Trello, project planning, budgeting, Google AdWords, structure/schedule and staffing requirements. Ms Office Word, Excel, MS Access, Power Point, Emails, Hip Chat, Slack, Scanners. Marketing software such as Exact Target, My Emma, Lyris and Sign Language.  • Business Stakeholders, Problem Solving, Project Plans, Project Management, Agile, Resource Allocation, Administration, and Project Delivery.