Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer Senior Full Stack Web Engineer East Elmhurst, NY ? Senior-level Web Application Developer with 15 years of experience in Application Analysis, Design, Development, Integration, Deployment, and Maintenance/Support for Web, Standalone and Client-Server based software applications.  ? Rich work exposure in mobile and web application development.  ? Excellent background in developing applications using LAMP stack end to end. Some of the technologies extensively worked on during my tenure as a developer are Linux, Apache, PHP, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JQuery, Laravel, AngularJS 1.x, Angluar 2,4, and 5, REACT JS, LESS, SASS, grunt, gulp, NodeJS, composer, Git, Ionic, Cordova.  ? Strong work experience on the Front End UI/UX development and Back End development.  ? Worked extensively with Git, PHPUnit, PHPMyAdmin, Sequal Pro, JIRA and Apache Web Server.  ? Thorough understanding of Object Oriented Principles also Agile and Scrum Development Methodologies.  ? Experience includes Database Design, Analysis and Development with MySQL, PostgreSQL and other relational and non-relational database technologies as well.  ? Experience interacting with clients to gather project requirements and build information architecture/development blueprint.  ? Extensive experience in MVC design pattern and frameworks such as Laravel, CodeIgniter, Angular, Ionic, Cordova  ? Significant experience in using IDE tools such as Sublime, NetBeans, Dreamweaver, PHPStorm, WebStorm etc.  ? Experienced in TDD and PHPUnit for unit testing.  ? Strong analytical and presentation skills, problem-solving techniques, proven leadership qualities with emphasis on individual and team effort backend by excellent communication skills.  ? Experience designing and building secure APIs with or without oAuth2.0.  ? Experience working with third-party APIs such as Stripe API, PayPal API, Facebook API, Twitter API, YouTube API, Clover POS system API, Google Maps API and more.  ? Experience working with open source Content Management Systems such as wordpress and drupal.  ? Strong experience working with Bootstrap front-end framework for responsive web development. Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Capital One - New York, NY May 2019 to Present Responsibilities  ? Developed financial spreading application with HTML, CSS, Typescript, JavaScript, Angular 7/8.  ? Worked in a Test Driven Development environment.   ? Integrated RESTful first party and third party APIs into the web application.  ? Used GIT for source control on project features.  ? Worked closely with the designer to convert the designs into code.  ? Used OOCSS (object oriented css) for working on the frontend.  ? Used SASS css pre-processor along with WebPack and Angular.  ? Used JIRA for task management.  ? Was lead engineer on a team of 30 people in which 20 were developers and the rest were QA, Product and Design.  ? Worked with Jenkins pipeline for CI/CD.  ? Worked with NodeJS and Restify  ? Worked with Socket.IO for web sockets.  ? Used Jasmine, Karma, Jest, Mocha, and Chai as unit testing tools Senior Full Stack Engineer getcoinback.com - New York, NY May 2018 to May 2019 Responsibilities  ? Developed web application client side with HTML, JavaScript, JSX (REACT) and CSS.  ? Developed landing pages for A/B testing with REACT JS.  ? Integrated RESTful first party and third party APIs into the web application.  ? Used GIT for source control on project features.  ? Used GitFlow for the source work flow.  ? Worked closely with designer to convert the designs into code.  ? Used OOCSS (object oriented css) for working on the frontend.  ? Used SASS css pre-processor and grunt for building the app  ? Used JIRA for task management. Senior Full Stack Developer Social Media Income - New York, NY January 2018 to April 2018 Responsibilities  ? Implemented front-end landing page layout and behavior with HTML, JavaScript (jQuery) and CSS.  ? Developed web application with Angular 5, Angular-Cli and Typescript  ? Created HTML Email Templates for Email Marketing.  ? Developed RESTful first party API using Laravel 5.5 framework (PHP/MySQL)  ? Used NodeJS server with Socket.io for Real-time web application experience  ? Wrote the SMI ERC-20 crypto-currency.  ? Wrote the SMI ICO smart contract logic with Open Zeppelin Framework  ? Used GIT for source control on project features.  ? Used GitFlow for the source work flow.  ? Led the entire project and development team.  ? Used PHPUnit for writing unit tests on the server side of the application.  ? Used OOCSS (object oriented css) for working on the frontend.  ? Used SASS css pre-processor and web pack for building the web application.  ? Used JIRA for task management. Senior Full Stack Developer TurnkeyX - Beverly Hills, CA April 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities  ? Implemented front-end layout and behavior with HTML, JavaScript (jQuery) and CSS.  ? Developed hybrid mobile application with Ionic 3 framework, Angular 4, Angular-Cli and Typescript  ? Created HTML Email Templates for Email Marketing Using Tools Like Mailchimp.  ? Architected Database for Peer 2 Peer exotic car rental API.  ? Developed RESTful first party API using Laravel 5.4 framework (PHP/MySQL)  ? Used Jenkins and Docker for Automated Deployment To multiple Environments.  ? Managed Junior Engineers and assisted them when necessary.  ? Used GIT for source control on project features.  ? Used GitFlow for the source work flow.  ? Worked with technical manager to run the development team.  ? Used OAuth 2.0 with password grants for RESTful API Authentication  ? Used PHPUnit for writing unit tests on the server side of the application.  ? Used OOCSS (object oriented css) for working on the frontend.  ? Used LESS css pre-processor and grunt CLI tools for building the application.  ? Used JIRA for task management.  ? Hosted continuing education meetings for our engineers to share new technologies and skills in order to better our coding practices. Senior Full Stack Developer TruckPay - Tenafly, NJ September 2016 to March 2017 Responsibilities  ? Implemented front-end layout and behavior with HTML, JavaScript (jQuery) and CSS.  ? Used Angular 1.5, NPM, Bower and Grunt for frontend.  ? Created Customized HTML Email Templates for Marketing and Newsletters.  ? Rewrote the entire system backend from Symfony framework to Laravel 5.2 framework.  ? Handled Cryptography using AES-256 Encryption for storing sensitive data.  ? Handled DevOps for 3 different Linux environments.  ? Used GIT for source control on project features.  ? Used GitFlow for source work flow.  ? Wrote custom REST APIs for private internal use.  ? Used PHPUnit for writing unit tests on the server side of the application.  ? Used OOCSS (object oriented css) for working on the frontend.  ? Used LESS css pre-processor and grunt CLI tools for building the application.  ? Used JIRA for task management.  ? Hosted Code Review Meetings with our engineers in order to see where we could better our code and discuss the reasons for approaching the task in the way it was approached.  ? Hosted continuing education meetings for our engineers to share new technologies and skills in order to better our coding practices.  ? Led team of 7 Engineers.  ? Used GeoLocation for vehicle tracking  ? Used Google Maps api for vehicle routing Senior Full Stack Developer Relay Graduate School of Education - New York, NY January 2016 to August 2016 Responsibilities  ? Implemented front-end layout and behavior with HTML, JavaScript (jQuery) and CSS.  ? Developed new features to existing LMS (learning management system).  ? Refactored code base which was written in Symfony Framework.  ? Integrated OKTA SSO for staff and student portals.  ? Worked closely with DevOps to optimize the current LMS system.  ? Worked with MySQL stored procedures, triggers and extremely complicated queries.  ? Used GIT for source control on project features.  ? Worked with technical manager to run the development team.  ? Wrote custom REST APIs for private internal use.  ? Used PHPUnit for writing unit tests on the server side of the application.  ? Used OOCSS (object oriented css) for working on the frontend.  ? Used LESS css pre-processor and grunt CLI tools for building the application.  ? Used JIRA for task management.  ? Hosted Code Review Meetings with our engineers in order to see where we could better our code and discuss the reasons for approaching the task in the way it was approached.  ? Hosted continuing education meetings for our engineers to share new technologies and skills in order to better our coding practices. Full Stack Developer Freelance Contract - Remote April 2015 to January 2016 Responsibilities  ? Implemented front-end layout and behavior with HTML, JavaScript (AngularJS) and CSS.  ? Developed HR system which generates averages for different candidates based on interviewer survey submissions.  ? Created responsive web application for HR system using Bootstrap.  ? Created Database architecture using relational database MySQL for HR systems.  ? Built secure API using Laravel to handle HTTP requests from front-end services which were built in AngularJS.  ? Used jQuery for DOM manipulation on HR web app.  ? Used GIT for source control on project features.  ? Designed and Developed a user friendly UI for HR system.  ? Used PHPUnit for writing unit tests on the Laravel side of the application. Full Stack Web Developer Gramercy Tech - New York, NY August 2014 to April 2015 Responsibilities  ? Implemented front-end layout and behavior with HTML, JavaScript (AngularJS) and CSS.  ? Developed event management system with multiple roles such as Admin, Event Attendee, and Super Admin with different privileges for each role.  ? Created responsive web application for managing events for large enterprises, some of which include Crestor, Astrazeneca, Subaru, and State Farm.  ? Created Database architecture using relational databases such as PostgreSQL and MySQL for event management systems.  ? Built secure API using Laravel to handle HTTP requests from front-end services which were built in AngularJS.  ? Used jQuery for DOM manipulation on event app.  ? Assisted the project manager with project planning, implementation and tracking, team coordination, and communication.  ? Worked with a team of engineers to tackle all project requirements.  ? Used GIT for source control and team collaboration on project features.  ? Designed and Developed a user friendly UI for event management system.  ? Built a mobile app templating engine on a web based interface.  ? Built a custom analytics system in HTML5 with graphical data for event statistics.  ? Built a button maker application with font-awesome icons that used HTML5 Canvas and AngularJS to generate a custom button for mobile application.  ? Built CRM tools for company clients.  ? Worked with third-party APIs such as Facebook and Sales Force.  ? Used PHPUnit for writing unit tests on the Laravel side of the application.  ? Handled Git Branch merges and resolved conflicts if any. Full Stack Web Developer FundingUnion - New York, NY July 2012 to August 2014 Responsibilities  ? Implemented front-end layout and behavior with Bootstrap, XHTML, JavaScript (jQuery) and CSS.  ? Developed Video Game Monetization Platform with Laravel.  ? Designed complete admin panel with casino feel on photoshop.  ? Converted PSD to HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Created Database architecture using MySQL database.  ? Built secure API using Laravel and oAuth 2.0 to handle HTTP requests from external servers.  ? Created complete system architecture for monetizing video games.  ? Worked with a team of engineers to tackle all project requirements.  ? Used GIT for source control and team collaboration on project features.  ? Worked with third-party APIs such as Facebook, Twitter, and Coinbase.  ? Built a gamer deposit system and gamer cash out system which utilized bitcoin.  ? Built a custom analytics system in HTML5 with graphical data for gamer statistics. Full Stack Web Developer TextMonster - Hicksville, NY June 2010 to June 2012 Responsibilities  ? Designed mobile marketing application user interface.  ? Converted photoshop design file into functional mobile marketing application prototype written in PHP.  ? Refactored initial prototype coding.  ? Built secure API using Code Igniter framework to handle HTTP requests.  ? Built admin panel for managing SMS services and Mobile Marketing App users.  ? Rewrote entire application in Laravel.  ? Worked with a team of engineers to tackle all project requirements.  ? Used GIT for source control and team collaboration on project features.  ? Built client portal for managing SMS marketing campaigns in PHP/MySQL.  ? Built landing page for mobile app demo in HTML/CSS/JavaScript. Web Developer My Best Day Camp - Elmhurst, NY June 2006 to May 2010 Responsibilities  ? Designed website in adobe photoshop.  ? Converted PSD file into XHTML/CSS/JavaScript.  ? Created custom Analytics system for company marketing campaign stats in custom PHP MVC Framework.  ? Integrated PayPal by using the PayPal API for payment processing and to accept donations.  ? Built admin panel for managing child care provider courses.  ? Integrated open-source wordpress content management system.  ? Built custom wordpress themes and plugins in HTML/CSS/JavaScript/PHP/MySQL.  ? Built landing page for child care provider certificate renewals in HTML/CSS/JavaScript/PHP/MySQL. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML, CSS, Javascript, PHP, Laravel, Angular, Web Sockets, AWS, REST API Development, Solidity, Blockchain Technologies, Ethereum Smart Contracts, Socket io, REACT JS, Angularjs, Node, Jquery, Nodejs, React