React/Redux Consultant React/Redux Consultant React/Redux Consultant - Anexinet King of Prussia, PA ? 9+ years of experience in web and software development technologies with millions views  building cross browser and dynamic websites using several frontend and backend technologies  ? Proficient in React/Redux, Bootstrap framework, and responsive web designs.  ? Worked in an agile environment and experienced working with big and small team.  ? Extensive knowledge of building dynamic SPA websites using React, Angular, HTML5, and SASS  using Create React App CLI and Angular CLI tools.  ? Extensive knowledge of integrating backend technologies (Ruby on Rails, NodeJS) with frontend  codes.  ? Well experienced in integrating third party RESTful API services into the web projects. Work Experience React/Redux Consultant Anexinet October 2018 to Present Brainstorm and develop User Interface for enterprise level SPA  ? UI development using latest technology using React and Redux ecosystem.  ? Develop UI using HTML5, ES6 and above, SCSS  ? Work on grid libraries to handle huge data and customize it as per necessary  ? Write Unit test to ensure each modules are working as expected  ? Work in agile methodology  ? Work and learn AWS ecosystem  ? Work with creative team to turn mock into working UI following style guidelines  ? Pair programming and code review to deliver optimum product  ? Attain meetings to get updates of all members and help them if necessary  ? Help QA to automate Postman to newman CLI on Jenkin CI/CD    Professional Diversity Network  PDN provides diverse communities with a trusted professional network, which pairs members  with employers who are serious about building a diverse workforce to meet the needs of an increasingly diverse customer base. PDN makes job search productive as possible, as the  employers who post jobs on the site are specifically seeking to hire aspiring diverse  employees. PDN websites has over millions views per month. Web Developer February 2009 to October 2018 Front-end development with responsive layout using HTML5, CSS3, SCSS, HAML, bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX  ? Developed and maintain high volume websites with cross-browser compatibility and responsive websites for employer and partners  ? Helped designers for email templates and mockups with front-end  ? Worked in Agile Software Development  ? Back-end development with Ruby on Rails, MongoDB  ? Pair Programmed with other developers  ? Helped maintain code quality, organization and automatization  560 American Ave  King of Prussia, PA 19406  (507) 313-6692  gehendra.karmacharya@gmail.com    ? Planned and carried out daily scrums, weekly estimations and retrospectives  ? Used Scrum to develop and keep track of product timeline  ? Worked on API to connect third party software to exchange data  ? Used Git for version control system  ? Worked closely with a client service team and a marketing team  ? Used C# for web scraping  ? Worked last project in the LAMP environment  ? Developed customized modules and maintained partner websites sites on Drupal CMS  platform  ? Google Analytics for tracking purposes and Google DoubleClick for banners  implementation    ? some of the websites, I have worked are as follows:  ? https://www.prodivnet.com/ Note: Employer main website. This website has  8 verticals focus on 8 affinities i.e. Women, Black Africans, Asians, LGBT, Disabled, Hispanic and General.  ? https://www.prodivnet.com/partners Note: Current partner websites. Most  of them are using the same theme but different content, design and functionalities.  ? https://www.iawomen.com/ Note: New website more focus on women. Finance Developer Intern Fastenal Company July 2008 to December 2008 Used PeopleSoft for user interface and SQR for reporting  ? Optimized SQL query to perform efficiently Education Master of Computer Science in Software Engineering Loyola University Chicago - Chicago, IL August 2016 Bachelor of Science in Computer Information System Winona State University - Winona, MN December 2008