North Miami, US - Software Developer North Miami, US - Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> North Miami, US - Software Developer - Girosol Corp North Miami Beach, FL Work Experience North Miami, US - Software Developer Girosol Corp - Miami, FL November 2015 to Present Design, development, implementation, and maintenance of Web and mobile  applications with Cordova PhoneGap (HTML, Bootstrap 4, JS) using Web Sockets,  APIs; providing a responsive design, feature-detection and mobile first approach,  improving cross-browser experience, aesthetic and overall performance. Published  them in Google Play Store and Apple apps Store.  ? Rebuild, maintain, create desktop interfaces to consume 3rth party and home  made APIs using C++, C#, VB.Net and XML, TLS, SSL, to achieve communication  security layers.  ? Assisting the identification and development of tools for client-server  communication using C#, VB.Net  ? Tested web applications, mobile apps, custom client-server and stand-alone  applications for security weakness and bug fixing.  ? Responsible for the UI Architecture of the social web platform. Team Lead Transcupet - Havana, CU March 2008 to June 2015 Created from scratch 3 web-apps including a large scale distributed system of payment using Bootstrap 3, Material Design, PHP, MSSQL; focused on web-apps    cross-browser compatibility, markup semantics, SEO and DOM / GPU / network  performance to achieve accessibility, searchability and optimal page speed results.  ? Performed both front-end and back-end related tasks while leading the development team.  ? Implementation of databases' generation and migration of large volumes of data  and deployment of structural changes to the databases' schemas via MySQL  scripts. Performed MySQL queries optimization and Indexes re-design.  ? Introduced responsive and accessible web applications acquiescent with W3C  standards  ? Provided customized front-end / back-end web solutions for the Company  Departments using HTML5 / CSS3 / JavaScript / AJAX. Web Developer Self Employed July 2005 to March 2008 - Developed responsive web interfaces for startups, web designers, athletes and students.  - Coded in PHP, relying on MySQL / SQLite as DBMS.  - Delivered and managed Joomla and Wordpress websites with custom layouts acquiescent  responsive design and progressive-enhancement approach using Bootstrap with accessible and semantic layout based on W3C's HTML / CSS latest recommendations.  - Performed scheduled maintenance and miscellaneous website enhancements.