DEVELOPER <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> DEVELOPER Edmonds, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience DEVELOPER coolblueweb January 2016 to Present MySQL • JQuery • Javascript • Foundation •  Git • Docker • Gulp • Craft CMS • A bit of Twig templating    coolblueweb is a Gold WooCommerce agency and partner with Magento specializing in ecommerce clients. My greatest accomplishment here has been educating clients and helping them reach their goals by either finding best-fit ecommerce solutions, or creating custom integrations to provide just what they need. During my tenure, our team has worked to nail down our processes and strategies, and to increase our expertise in this competitive and sometimes contentious space. WEB DEVELOPER Clocktower Media July 2015 to November 2015 WordPress • WooCommerce • concrete5 • PHP • Git • A bit of ERB    Clocktower Media was my first West Coast agency job at a pup-friendly office in Kirkland. While there, I worked primarily on updating and troubleshooting WordPress and concrete5 applications as well as planning and proposing site and feature updates. MULTIMEDIA DEVELOPER Sanborn Media Factory 2009 to 2014 XML • PHP • ASP • AS3 • JQuery • JSON • WordPress • CSS3    I was at SMF during the rise of the mobile device, and saw all the changes that happened because of that revolution. I began as a Flash developer, but quickly moved more into the javascript space with the help of jQuery. Focusing on pure web development for the first time in my career, I built marketing sites, sweepstakes forms, Facebook Apps, social media integrations, WordPress themes, and anything else that was asked of me. (Yes, even coding html emails). I discovered that leveraging CSS3, jQuery, and responsive design would allow me to create app-like experiences in desktop and mobile browsers. MULTIMEDIA SPECIALIST The Edelman Group 2008 to 2009 QuarkXPress • InDesign • Flash • HTML • CSS    This was my first full-time job in the Big Apple. A boutique design firm catering primarily to financial organizations, we designed things like mailers, advertisements, points brochures, and annual reports. On top of that I used my multimedia bent to handle our email marketing and design some interactive mailers. I also had the pleasure of helping to hire and supervise interns. GRAPHIC DESIGNER Creatacor, Inc 2005 to 2007 Photoshop • Illustrator • Final Cut Pro • InDesign • Flash    Creatacor is a magical trade show factory: office, workshop, warehouse, and print shop all under one giant roof. We created graphics of every size and shape, from postcards to vehicle wraps. I was able to leverage my multimedia background to make some interactive and animated pieces in flash, and create a few marketing videos. My favorite jobs there were creating signage for museums, parks, and even a newly-built green library. Education BFA in NEW MEDIA DESIGN & IMAGING Rochester Institute of Technology Skills HTML, Javascript, Linux, SQL, XML, jQuery, php, Wordpress, Ecommerce, Git, Gulp, Docker Links http://www.mattmattice.com