Photographer Photographer Digital and Creative Leader Pembroke Pines A multifaceted creative with a rich history of over 20 years experience steeped in digital marketing, web design/development,  search engine optimization, photography and more. Work Experience Photographer Live Content Creator - Miami, FL March 2019 to Present Fort Lauderdale Area    Responsible for capturing photos and videos for both the Miami Marlins and their opponents such as the NY Mets and Philadelphia Phillies etc. which is then used on team's social media accounts as well as their websites. Senior Live Content Creator - Photographer National Football League (NFL) - Miami, FL August 2018 to Present Fort Lauderdale Area    Responsible for capturing photos and videos for both the Miami Dolphins and their opponents such as the New England  Patriots, NY Jets etc. which is then used on team's social media accounts as well as their websites. Also shot b roll video for the NFL for their #mycausemycleats program as well as provided photo and video of players giving back to the community. Consultant JC Ruiz Consulting - Miami, FL November 2010 to Present Fort Lauderdale Area    • Responsible for analyzing and recommending technical tasks and site improvements that follow SEO best practices  and meet strategic priorities  • Identified technical issues and troubleshooting such as HTTPs migrations, robots.txt file errors, pagination errors, canonical tags, mobile friendliness, redirects, page speed, etc.  • Audited and analyzed website log files  • Created and analyzed the results of SEO A/B tests, and continually perform technical audits and implementing  changes to improve site health as well as conducted ongoing competitor analysis to identify gaps in content coverage and areas of opportunity  • Design products, packaging, e-mail blasts, websites, social media content and print advertisements.  • Produced content for websites, social media as well as authored scripts for phone and audio recordings.    Major League Baseball (MLB) Professional Photographer Golfsmith and for the City of Coral Gables October 2010 to Present • Understanding of photography and retouching process.  • Process images - crop, clip, color correct, manipulation, resizing, etc. in Lightroom, PhotoMechanic and Photoshop, maintaining quality control.  • Retouch/resize product photos and/or model photos in a timely manner per client specs.  • Commercial photography work for Carnival Cruise Line, Golfsmith and for the City of Coral Gables. Web Development & Coding Specialist Carnival Cruise Line December 2015 to March 2019 Contract Web Developer www.goccl.com - Doral, FL March 2014 to March 2014 December 2019  Doral, FL    • Responsible for the daily maintenance and update of www.goccl.com, Carnival's trade marketing website.  • Ghostwrote articles for the department's Vice President's weekly op-ed in Travel Weekly.  • Use web analytics and SEO tools to monitor, analyze and optimize website activity, traffic trends, SERP rankings, and customer acquisition  • Create and implement critical business/marketing objectives from initial concept to final design.  • Maintain graphic standards and branding throughout e-mail blasts, websites, social media content and print  advertisements.  • Designed over 300 brand compliant ads that were used in print media for such partners as AAA, TravelSavers, Expedia  etc.  • Developed, launched, and optimized a broad range of email campaigns and automated flows that promote growth  and engage customers throughout the life cycle Web Content Developer BGT Partners - Hallandale Beach, FL April 2012 to October 2013 Worked exclusively on one of BGT's top client's, Carnival Cruise Line, website as a content editor and web developer. Was the point person for addressing any bugs as it related to HTML, CSS, jQuery etc. Responsible for implementing BGT's SEO directives  that came from both Carnival Cruise Lines as well as BGT's own in-house SEO department. Web Developer Cengage Learning - Boston, MA May 2005 to October 2010 Responsible for the daily maintenance and development for ColdFusion based applications. Developed and maintained  numerous 508 compliant websites that were to supplement textbooks used by universities and schools throughout the country.  Received training for Scrum and Agile development methods. Web Developer Motorola - Plantation, FL August 2000 to June 2004 Brought on board to incorporate a configuration management system solution for a 3rd party vendor tool. Collaborated with other developers to create, maintain, upgrade and deploy co-branded websites and applications. Developed a PHP based  login/authentication page that interfaced with Motorola's database of core id's for it's employees. Education None in Computer Science, Journalism Florida International University - Miami, FL August 1997 to January 2000 Skills Adobe, Lightroom, Photography, Photoshop, Marketing, SEO, JIRA, SEMrush, SEOmoz, Email Marketing, Digital Marketing, Content Marketing, Web Development, Web Design, Google Analytics, Google Webmaster Tools, Google Tag Manager, Strategic Planning, sitecore, Wordpress, screaming frog, Salesforce, marketing cloud