Senior Coldfusion Web Developer Senior Coldfusion <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Coldfusion Web Developer - HumanScale • Data Science - Rutgers DataScience Bootcamp Certification program  1. Excel - VBA/Macro, Data Analysis, Pivot Table and Pivot Charts, Charts/Trend Line, Conditional  Formatting, and Build-in Functions.  2. Fundamental Statistics - Modelling and Forecasting  3. Python Programming - Dictionary, List, CSV Reader, Pandas, NumPy, MatPlotLib, SQLAlchemy  4. Jupyter Notebook, Git Bash, Flask  5. Web Service APIs - Social Media, Open Weather, Alpha Advantage  6. GitHub  7. MySQL, Mongo, SQLite, JSON  8. BootStrap, JavaScript Charting, D3.js, Leaflet.js  9. Tableau    • Web Deveopment  1. Coldfusion, Dreamweaver, CSS, HTML, CFEclipse, JavaScript, PHP, JQuery, Java/Servlet, XML,  JSON.    • DataBase - MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle, SQL Developer, TOAD, SQL-PLUS, MS Access, MonGo,  MonGo Bench, SQL Server Management Studio.    • Senior level software engineer/ developer with wide range of skills - ColdFusion (7, 8, 9, and 10) , RAILO,  Fuse Box, AJAX/JQuery, XML, Visio, Object Orient, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, SQL server 2005/2008,  MySQL, MS Access, ORACLE, PRO*C, PL-SQL, SQL Developer, TOAD, SQL-PLUS, SQL, C/C++,  PHP, XAMPP, Apache, BOOTSTRAP, Aix/Unix/KSH/SHELL, MS-Word, Visual Basic/VBA/Excel,  WinSCP, GitHub, Tortoise/SVN, PVCS, TFS, Section 508 compliance, Agile/SCRUM, MVC,  Dreamweaver, CFEclipse.    • Excellent understanding of full software life cycle development process.    • Recognized for implementing quality products within schedule, a team player, independent, excellent  analytical skill and having a passion for providing customer orient system support.    • Perform unit test and provide production support.    • HIPAA trained.    David Hui 8/13/2019 Work Experience Senior Coldfusion Web Developer HumanScale - Piscataway, NJ September 2018 to Present Maintain and enhance Web based HOST application system, a home grown reporting application that supports  offices globally using CF 10, HTML, JS, CSS, Excel, SQL / Stored Procedure, and SQL Server 2012.  • Maintain and enhance Web based Customer Portal use by both internal and external users to track Orders and Invocies.  • Maintain and enhance Ergonomist's Assessment and Reporting Tool using CF 10, HTML, JS, CSS, Excel, SQL / Stored Procedure, and SQL Server 2012.  • Obtain business requirement and translate it into technical documenst.  • Maintain various CF datasources and Scheduled tasks.  • Mentor and distribute tasks to Junior level developers.  • Create and maintain code base using TFS repository.  • Provide production support to resolve production issue daily. Coldfusion Web Application Developer Cisive / Carco Group Inc., Holtsvile - New York, NY March 2016 to July 2018 • Maintained and enhanced table driven XML web based OnBoarding application for various clients using CF 8  / 10, SQL Server, XML, CSS, HTML, and JavaScript/JQuery in Agile/SCRUM environment.  • Built SFTP process to import/export applicant's background check and onboarding related documents from client's site.  • Created web service to Integrate onboarding portal with Drug Test vendor for scheduling Drug Screening Test, and reviewing Drug Test Result using Coldfusion and Json.  • Maintained and enhanced web based insurance / inspection application/portals for insurance clients using CF 8  / 10, SQL Server, CSS, HTML, and JavaScript/JQuery in Agile/SCRUM environment.  • Created NMVTIS VIN based report for Insurance providers using Vendor's API, CF8/10, SQL Server, and FTP.  • Created Vechicle Recall History Report using Coldfusion, SQL Server, JSON and Master Recall API.  • Received HIPAA trainings.  • Obtained and translated business requirement to technical requirement. Coldfusion Web Application Developer Broadridge - New York, NY April 2015 to March 2016 Designed and created User Security Application to administrate user's network/system accessibility using  Coldfusion 8, JavaScript, and MS SQL Server 2008.    1. Designed UI and implemented dynamic data refresh function.  2. Designed and implemented CFC function to export data to Excel.  3. Designed and created database tables to hold various data from client's data sources.  4. Designed and created stored procedures, CFC functions to retrieve and load sensitive data from different  external data sources dynamically.  5. Designed and implemented code to manage User Session activities.    • Added Email Notification Tracking Report to the existing report portal using Coldfusion, FuseBox4, and stored procedure.  • Modified and customized Ordering Portal to incorporate new service subscribers.  • Created batch process to print financial documents for financial clients.  • Added validation logic to process client's data feed.  • Performed unit test to ensure the quality of deliverable products.  • Investigated and resolved production problems. Coldfusion Web Application Developer UMDNJ/Rutgers University - Somerset, NJ January 2013 to March 2015 Maintained and enhanced MATRIX Compliance/Disclosure application for Ethics and Compliance  Department at Rutgers/UMDNJ using ColdFusion 9, JQuery, Oracle 11, SQL Developer, and Dreamweaver.  • Designed and created the Office of Enterprise Risk Management, Ethics & Compliance's official website, https://uec.rutgers.edu.  • Designed and Implemented LDAP Search/Edit Portal for University Hospital using PHP and BOOSTRAP 3.  • Designed and implemented Exclusion/Debarment Report. This task includes downloading the source files  from the websites of Office of Inspector General and State of New Jersey Consolidated Debarment, and loading the data into Oracle database.  • Maintained and enhanced Enterprise Risk Management's official website, http://erm.rutgers.edu.  • Designed and implemented Risk Tracking and Reporting System using RAILO and Oracle.  • Designed and implemented Oracle database for Risk Tracking and Reporting System.  • Designed and created a Survey portal to track the Risk identification and evaluation process using RAILO and Oracle.  • Designed and implemented roll out processes for Scholarly Capacity Annual Disclosure (SCAD) Form and Non-Monetary Compensation Questionnaire (NMC) Form using CF 9 and Oracle.  • Created Ad Hoc Compliance reports using SQL, Excel/Pivot, CF 9 and SQL Developer.  • Replicated Oracle database into MS Access development database.  • Maintained and converted MS Word documents into PDF documents using Adobe Acrobat 9 Pro.  • Created and submitted Compliance reports in PDF format to State of New Jersey Commission Office for over  3000 Physicians and medical staffs using CF 9 and Oracle.  • Created and maintained external interface to extract and load Compliance training result and status from vendor's MS Access database into Oracle database using CF 9 and SQL.  • Rebranded the Ethics and Compliance Web site with Rutgers specific requirement and performed data  migration.  • Modified CF 9 code to handle Data Separation Project for UMDNJ, Rowan University, and University  Hospital.  • Evaluated and performed feasibility study on RAILO with existing web applications written in Adobe  ColdFusion 9.  • Administrated and maintained Adobe and RAILO CF server including data sources using by the web  applications.  • Provided production support.  • Received HIPAA trainings.  • Interacted with HIPAA training vendor, HCCS HealthStream, to inveatigate and create compliance reports.  • Gathered user requirements and created project schedule. Coldfusion Web Application Developer UPS - Wayne, NJ May 2012 to December 2012 Maintained and enhanced Web based Intranet Human Resource application in Agile/SCRUM environment  using ColdFusion 9, SQL queries, HTML, JavaScript/JQuery, Eclipse, and SQL Server 2008.  • Maintained business/dashboard reports using ColdFusion and SQL Server stored procedures.  • Created Stored Procedures and User Defined Functions.  • Obtained requirements from customer, unit test new codes, create queries and perform data analysis.  • Maintained database tables that include creating and altering primary keys and tables.  • Created Excel reports using SQL, ColdFusion 9. Senior Coldfusion Web Application Developer Pereless System - Red Bank, NJ May 2011 to April 2012 Maintained and enhanced web based application, a Human Resource Recruiting Solution system, using  ColdFusion, CFC, AJAX, HTML, CSS, Fuse Box, Dreamweaver, JavaScript, JQuery, SQL Server 2008 and Management Studio  • Responsible for identifying, negotiating, and gathering requirements from various service vendors.  • Created and integrated Web Services to communicate XML messages with external business partners using  ColdFusion and SQL queries.  • Created Excel reports using SQL and ColdFusion.  • Created SQL queries to retrieve data and built Excel reports using ColdFusion.  • Created database table.  • Supported production issues.  • Enhanced dashboard reports using Flash, Action Script, and ColdFusion.  • Administrated ColdFusion Server, created and configured data source, and configure CF batch processes.  • Performed data analysis, data cleansing and data migration from legacy database to SQL server.  • Created VBA Macro to extract email addresses from Outlook message folder.  • Documented project related information using Visio and MS Word. Coldfusion Web Application Developer PHH, Maryland February 2011 to April 2011 • Designed and implemented intranet web site to manage inventory check list using ColdFusion, CFC, and Oracle.  • Designed and implemented intranet web site to track order provisioning progress using ColdFusion, CFC, and Oracle.  • Created queries to retrieve data to create Excel reports from Oracle database. Coldfusion Web Application Developer United Nations - New York, NY August 2010 to January 2011 Designed and created business websites for UNFPA to manage the funding related activities within UNFPA  division using ColdFusion 7, HTML, CSS, Fuse Box, JavaScript, MySQL.  • Created and implemented batch processes to monitor fund related activities and notified fund owners via  emails using CFMAIL.  • Created Fund Progress Report using Excel/VBA.  • Using CFQUERY, and CFHTTP to create and send XML document.  • Obtained system requirement from business customers and translated them into technical document.  • Performed testing in staging environment.  • Designed and created database, created and executed SQL statement, import/export data.  • Supported production for all users globally. Front End Developer Maximus - New York, NY November 2008 to November 2009 Designed, created and automated Web based documents for Special Education Program of Disable Students  for New York City's Department of Education.  • Used TIENET, HTML, SQL, JavaScript, CSS, Dreamweaver to design, to create and to automate section 508  compliance documents and forms to support Special Education Program for Disable Students for New York  City's Department of Education.  • Designed and Created requirement template to obtain detail requirement for management reports using  Excel/VBA. Coldfusion Application Developer AT&T - Piscataway, NJ December 2007 to November 2008 • Obtained requirements and compiled them into technical documents.  • Designed and implemented web front end and back end processes using JavaScript, HTML, ColdFusion, SQL  Server and SQL.  • Loaded data from MS-Excel, MS-Project.  • Created and maintain database tables, views, and stored procedures in SQL server environment.  • Created reports in Excel, PDF, HTML formats using CFHEADER, CFCONTENT, CFINVOKE and CFDOCUMENT.  • Performed daily production supports.  • Performed ColdFusion Administration, Configure Database connections, schedule ColdFusion Tasks.  • ColdFusion7/8, Dreamweaver, SQL Server 2005, SQL Studio, Perl, and SQL.  • Created SQL statements to retrieve data from SQL Server database.  • Created common modules in CFC files.  • Initialized run-time environment in Application CFC file. Architect/ Web Programmer Comverge, Inc - East Hanover, NJ October 2007 to December 2007 Proposed and implemented web-based "Real Time Energy Pricing" sweepstake project for the State of Illinois.  Technologies used for this project were Flash, ColdFusion Flash Remoting and MS SQL Server. Software Developer/Engineer Panasonic - Secaucus, NJ December 2006 to February 2007 Worked as a software engineer to support Panasonic's Supply Chain/Distribution Channels project in re- homing/consolidating all the subsystems/processes into a single operational environment using SAP  technologies. My responsibilities were to re-design, implement, enhance, and document the existing interfaces to the external distributors and suppliers using Aix/Unix/Ksh/Shell/C, PERL, DB2, and Java. These  interfaces receive data, modify the data according to Panasonic's business logic, and send the data feeds to the  external distributors and suppliers. Software Developer/Engineer AT&T - Florham Park, NJ December 2005 to December 2006 Worked as a software engineer to support project architect of AT&T Wireless project in obtaining data feeds, investigating them to identify and resolve anomalies and inconsistencies of data and develop it into a stable  data source using VBA/Excel, ORACLE SQL, Oracle SQL Developer, SQL Navigator, SQL-PLUS, SQL- Loader, Store Procedure, Package, PL-SQL, Unix Shell, Macromedia Dreamweaver, Weblogic 7, Java/JSP,  CSS, ColdFusion, and HTML. Software Developer/Engineer Lucent Technologies - Whippany, NJ September 2005 to December 2005 Worked as a software developer to maintain, develop and support Mobile Sale Configuration Tool for Wireless Sale team using TOAD, Oracle/SQL and VBA/Excel. Lead Software Engineer/ Developer AT&T August 2003 to March 2005 Worked as a lead software developer to design, implement, and maintain a WEB Based application for AT&T  Local Usage Warehouse using JAVA/SERVLET/JDBC/JSP, HTML, JavaScript, ORACLE, SQL, SQL- Loader, Store Procedure/Trigger, SQL/PLUS, PRO*C, SHELL, and PVCS. AT&T March 1989 to March 2005 Software Engineer/ Developer AT&T July 2001 to July 2003 Responsible for implementing software prototype to automate AT&T work centers' manual work steps using  JAVA, C/C++, UNIX/SHELL, Visual Basic, tn3270, Excel, SQL, Oracle, LibE/G2, and Sablime.  • Designed and implemented GUI based screens for AT&T's Service Routing System using JAVA/Swing  Technology. Project Leader AT&T June 1994 to June 2001 Worked as a team leader to design, implement, and maintain WEB based applications for AT&T's Fraud  Investigation Department and AT&T's International 800 Toll Free Provisioning Center using Jrun, Java/Servlet, Unix/Shell/C, Oracle, SQL, CORBA, HTML, JavaScript, PVCS, and HP-UX/Unix in a Multi  Tier environment.  • Worked as a team leader to design, implement, and maintain character based applications for AT&T's Fraud  Investigation Department and AT&T's International 800 Toll Free Provisioning Center using Unix/Shell, Informix, SQL, Informix 4GL, and Passport. Senior Programmer/Analyst AT&T October 1992 to May 1994 Worked as a Programmer Analyst and ORACLE 6 DBA to design, implement, and maintain a client/server  application and ORACLE Database for AT&T's Information Management System Division using Oracle, C, and SuperNova. Programmer/Analyst AT&T March 1989 to October 1992 Worked as a Programmer Analyst to design, implement, and maintain Unix based application for AT&T's  Billing/Collection department using Unix/Shell, C, RJE, and X.25. Education B.S. in Computer Science NYU /Polytechnic - Brooklyn, NY IPC