PHP Application Developer PHP Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> PHP Application Developer Taylor, MI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience PHP Application Developer Little Caesar's Enterprises - Detroit, MI November 2018 to Present • Applications: Work on the PHP application that is used for creating sales reports in the stores. Work with business team members and follow business requirement documents to fix bugs. Refactor the sales reports to make the code easier to maintain, debug, and improve the accuracy of the numbers. Create debugging tools for the reporting application that shows the performance of the application and what data and functions have been loaded into memory. Use Git for version control.  • Databases: Work with Microsoft SQL Server and Percona/MySQL. Do performance tuning on the store and corporate databases which vary between 50gb and 500gb in size. Refactor queries to make better use of the available indexes and add new indexes where needed.  • Servers: Work on Windows servers. Web Application Developer, Server Administrator Continue To Give - Wausau, WI March 2010 to Present • Applications: Code 80% of a crowdfunding website, including most of the underlying AJAX framework. Use custom templating engine to render HTML pages. Created a database difference comparing tool for use in production releases that can detect and copy over schema changes, routine changes, index changes, and data changes. Use SVN for source control of all projects.  • Databases: Administer MariaDB databases, perform backups, setup user access. Refresh staging database environments with production data periodically or when requested. Performance tuning for slow queries. Setup a Sphinx search index, connect it to MariaDB with SphinxSE plugin.  • Servers: Experience in Virtual/Cloud infrastructure environment. Work on Ubuntu servers. Install necessary programs using APT. Create BASH scripts. Bring website and database servers into PCI compliance for credit card processing. Configure firewall using iptables. Configure Hamachi VPN and install the client on web and database servers. Web Application Developer, Server Administrator Progressifieds July 2008 to Present • Applications: Code 100% of a classifieds listing website. Use custom templating engine to render HTML pages. Use SVN for source control of all projects.  • Databases: Administer MariaDB databases, perform backups, setup user access. Create table layouts, setup indices for fast querying. Refresh staging database environments with production data. Performance tuning for slow queries. Create SQL reports to monitor who is using the website, how, and when.  • Servers: Work on Ubuntu servers. Install necessary programs using APT. Create BASH scripts. Setup firewall using iptables. Experience in Virtual/Cloud infrastructure environment. Administer SVN repositories. Senior Web Application Developer Zenith American Solutions - Chicago, IL January 2010 to May 2018 • Applications: Program in a team environment of up to 4 people. Use the Agile and Waterfall model for development cycle. Create a PHP application that interacted with an Active Directory (LDAP) server. Develop Joomla components, modules, and plugins. Use SVN for source control of all projects. Create a REST webservice in PHP, used by multiple websites and connected to various data sources using ODBC.  • Databases: Administer MySQL databases, perform backups, setup user access. Create and modify ETL (extract transform load) stored routines. Refresh staging database environments with production data when requested.  • Servers: Work on CentOS and Windows servers. Programming with BASH scripts. Work with DB2 databases, iSeries servers, MS SQL Server, IIS, Apache. Administer SVN repositories and user access. Education Associates Degree in Computer Programming in Computer Programming Baker College - Clinton Township, MI 2005 to 2007 Skills Git, HTML 5 (4 years), MySQL (10+ years), jQuery (10+ years), PHP (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), SVN (10+ years), REST (7 years), Laravel (1 year), CSS Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified MySQL Developer May 2011 to Present Certification through Oracle as a MySQL 5 developer. Certification covers development of stored routines, views, indexes, storage engines, triggers Zend Certified PHP Engineer July 2009 to Present Certification through Zend as a PHP 5 developer. Certification covers the fundamentals and some advanced areas of PHP application development such as use of string manipulation, arrays, object-oriented programming, filesystem access, and using PHP extensions.