Sr. Web Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Web Developer - Charter Solutions Inc Austin, TX • UI Developer with 12+ years of experience in developing both web-based & client-based applications  • Experience in all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC), which includes User Interaction, Business Analysis/Modeling, Design/Architecture, Development, Implementation, Integration, Documentation, Testing, and Deployment.  • Experience in client-side languages & JavaScript frameworks like jQuery, Angular.js; server-side languages like Node.js, Backbone.  • Experience in Implementing new features using Rails J2EE in the back end and Coded front end functionality in JavaScript.js, Backbone.js and Ember.js.  • Well versed with complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process with expertise in Planning, Reviewing Specification, Documentation, Scheduling, Design, Development, Testing, Implementation and Maintenance of applications.  • Experience applying the latest software development approaches including MVC, event - driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON and XML.  • Good understanding and knowledge in using CSS Preprocessors LESS and SASS.  • Experience in utilizing open-source frameworks as Struts, Hibernate and Spring.  • Hands-on experience in Database programming using Oracle, MySQL and SQL.  • Experience in writing SQL queries, Procedures, Cursors and Triggers.  • Experience in developing web based applications using Google Web Toolkit (GWT)  • Good understanding of Model View Controller (MVC) Pattern.  • Strong problem analysis and resolution skills.  • Strong experience in Client Side designing and validations using HTML, DHTML and JavaScript.  • Experience in working in AGILE based development environment and participating in Scrum sessions.  • Excellent communication skills, has clear understanding of business procedures and ability to work as an individual and also as a part of a team.  • Highly motivated team player with zeal to learn new technologies and always believes in giving the best of efforts in challenging environments..  • Sound knowledge in working with browsers compatibility issues with browsers like IE, Firefox, safari, Opera, Chrome.  • Experience using all popular text editors like Atom, WebStorm, Eclipse, Sublime Text Editor, Visual Studios and Notepad++.  • Designed Front-end within object Oriented Java script Framework like Angular JS, Bootstrap, Marionette JS, Require JS, Backbone JS, Can JS, Node JS, Ember JS and Ext JS and Created React JS components using JSX, followed FLUX design pattern in data flow.  • Have experience in Design, Development and Deployment of Web-Applications/ J2EE applications on servers like BEA-Weblogic , and Apache Tomcat , Apache Tomcat , JBoss Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Web Developer Charter Solutions Inc - Saint Paul, MN January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like angular.js, Node.js, Backbone.js, Require.js and Ext.js.  • Designed rich internet applications using Google web toolkit (GWT).  • Extensively used all the new HTML5 features like local storage, new input attributes, Canvas and SVG, audio and video etc.  • Hands-on design experience including experience in UI/UX.  • Used new CSS3 features like multi-column layout, gradients and web fonts, transform and transpose and media.  • Collaborative engineering of CDN architecture for video distribution through Telco infrastructure.  • Developed and designed the agent portal using framework AngularJS 2.0 along with CSS3, HTML.  • Performed various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls with JavaScript and with AngularJS using custom directive  • Created sites to organize client contracts and to summarize monthly financial data using Ember.js, D3.js and MySQL.  • Developed with Ember.js using HTML, HTML Bars, SCSS, JavaScript and with the data setup on a Ruby on Rails server.  • Used twitter Bootstrap for creating responsive web design for varying screen sizes and devices.  • Good Experience in implementing MVC frameworks like Angular for AJAX data calls using the $http service.  • Integrating front end elements with the Node.js server and writing testable server side code  • Increased database performance by utilizing MySQL config changes, multiple instances and by upgrading hardware. Created Class Diagrams and sequence diagrams using UML.  • Support Agile upgrade and participate in test cases.  • Developed static and dynamic Web Pages using JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Developed JSP pages and Servlets for customer maintenance.  • Developed custom tags, JSTL to support custom User Interfaces.  • Involved in writing maven scripts for merging jar files into existing repository.  • Use jPod and iText to manipulate PDF operations.  • Directory Listing and File down load services (Similar to Windows Explorer on a PC, developed using Google Web Toolkit, AJAX)  • Used jQuery to make the HTML, DHTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Setup framework for all current and future front-end projects to use backbone.js for framework, organized module definitions and unit tests  • Developed the search engine and performance optimized front-end (HTML, CSS, and JS) for business and eCommerce Website.  • Experience in handling data import from NoSQL solutions like MongoDB to HDFS.  • Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Backbone.js and node.js.  • Designed solutions with D3.js JavaScript Library to build data visualization frameworks.  • Enhancement of existing application utilizing JSP, Created HTML5 navigation menu that is role based menu items changes dynamically, derived from the database in the form of XML.  • Designed and documented REST/HTTP APIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy.  • Created web services, WSDL and web methods with Annotation in hibernate, Used the spring container for data source and to load the Hibernate specific classes  • Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework.  • Created of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using JS, EXTJS and JQUERY  • Involved in intense User Interface (UI) operations and client side validations using AJAX toolkit.  • Designed and implemented Java engine and API to perform direct calls from font-end JavaScript (ExtJS) to server-side Java methods (ExtDirect).  • Designed various design Workflow Modules using BPM (Business Process Modeler) to implement Business Logic and Business rules using Ilog, Jrules.  • Design and develop pricing region services using Oracle ADF, JSF and Oracle Spatial.  • Analysis of QTP for web 2.0 objects and created custom objects using web extensibility tool.  • Prototyped and implemented Cloud based Service Bus on WSO2 for engaging stakeholders in in the initial SOA discussions.  • Maintained report and request generator using Jasper Report  • Involved in detail design developing use cases, use case diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams and high level activity diagrams using UML from the requirements.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, XHTML, DOM, DHTML, Oracle database, Eclipse, SQL, Windows XP/07 and MS Office. Sr. Web Developer Recruit Professional Services - Parsippany, NJ May 2014 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed a demo version of the product to solicit and incorporate feedback into the design.  • Worked on ADO.NET components Data Reader, Data adapter, Data Set and Data View to provide connection to the database in SQL server 2000.  • Implemented client side scripts using JavaScript.  • Designed and developed User Interface Web Forms using Adobe Flash, CSS, Dreamweaver, and JavaScript.  • Implemented CSS3 and JavaScript based navigation system visually identical to previous table-based system to improve ease of maintenance and organic search engine placement.  • Used XML Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  • Developed Business Logic Component using Web Services, WSDL. Implemented SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol) for communication of application.  • Involved in the design of the system architecture using UML and MS Visio to develop class diagrams, use cases etc.  • W rote business logic, lookup list and edits for data table in C#.  • Used Singleton, Class factory and Dispatcher Design Pattern.  • Worked with Agile software lifecycle methodologies. Create design documents when and as required. Perform coding, debugging and testing.  • Created, guided and encouraged the GWT incubator, an online community to create widgets and test new ideas for with the Google Web Toolkit.  • Developed web services using SOAP, WSDL and Apache Axis which helped communicating through different modules of the application.  • Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing JSP, Created HTML navigation menu that is role based menu items changes dynamically, derived from the database in the form of XML.  • Implemented WSDL specification in combination with SOAP and XML Schema to provide Web Services.  • Developed the Web Services Client using SOAP, WSDL description to verify the credit history of the new customer to provide a connection.  • Worked on the Eclipse SDK framework to develop the Code and Deploy the Application by Integrating to the Tomcat Server.  • Involved in Deployment of port lets and war files on WebSphere Portal.  • Supported online gap site for deployment of application and modeling changes on RHEL servers for agile continuous integration using Subversion repositories. Red hat Linux, Centos, Microsoft servers.  • Used JUnit/JMock for to write unit tests, STIQ for UI testing and JMeter for Black-Box testing. STIQ is an open source testing suite developed by SolutionsIQ which is based on Selenium and Fitnesse  • Participated in developing web pages using JSP, JavaScript and Google Web Toolkit, DWR (Ajax Framework) for better user interface experience.  • Provides support in the analysis and troubleshooting of production issues which are tracked through JIRA.  • Developed interfaces and their implementation classes to communicate with the mid-tier (services) using JMS. Technically, it is a 3-tier client server application, where GUI tier interacts with Java middle-tier custom library and queries an Oracle database using Hibernate.    Environment: Bootstrap, angular.js, AJAX, JavaScript, Node.js, Java Script, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, High charts, DOM, DHTML, XHTML, XML, XSL, SQL Server and Windows XP. Java Developer United Heath Group - Reston, VA September 2011 to 2014 Responsibilities:  • Implemented the Spring dependency injection of the Database helper instance to the action objects.  • Collaborate with Build Team to integrate HTMLs, front-end code with the backend technology and portal framework, to ensure the UX / UI is implemented.  • Designed the front end according to specs using JSP and Servlets on server side. Configuring and Integrating iBatis with Struts. HTML Component, data table, panel, dialogue etc was used for creating HTML Pages. Extensive Javascript Library usage.  • Developed HTML templates with help of handlebars. Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) Design Pattern using AngularJS.  • Developed JSP pages for presentation layer (UI) using Struts with client side validations using Struts Validator framework/ JavaScript.  • Maintained the business standards and the requirements in EJB and deployed them on to WebLogic Application Server.  • Used JQuery library and implemented Ajax features.  • Integrating React' s Redux framework to scale and maintain the application better while handling large amounts of data.  • Used Ajax calls extensively - using Jquery, inside the WebApps and create a seamless flow of Quotes.  • Developed J2EE components using Netbeans as IDE.  • Deployed the application in JBOSS Application Server.  • Extracted data in UI for different clients using JSON format. Implemented client-side validations using JavaScript.  • Implemented AJAX, JSON, and Java script to create interactive web screens.  • Involved in developing projects as Lead / Senior Developer following traditional SDLC Water Fall Model as well as Agile.  • Reviewed the Selenium Scripts developed by the team members.  • Designed UML diagrams using UML and Rational.  • Coding of entity beans, Access Beans, commands, Portles and JSP  • Created and maintained the Visual Source Safe Project repository, maintained labelled version for each release and Service pack release.  • Selenium test cases for management module with integration with cruise control (complete ant suite starting/stopping tomcat and creating /deploying war and running the selenium test cases  • Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, JavaScript, CSS and jQuery  • Handled necessary Business logic in Servlets  • Worked with deployments on Ant, Maven and Deployment script.  • Used Web Services for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval.  • Create and give training to all A/P personnel for the Imaging and Scanning systems. KOFAX is the scanning system software, and EMC DocumentUm is the Imaging Suite, including ApplicationXtender and the web interface for most users.  • Provides support in the analysis and troubleshooting of production issues which are tracked through JIRA.  • Developed Employee Information System, Online Leave System, Contractor Attendance System For Payroll Using JSP & Java Swing.  • Implemented Cognos SDK code for extracting the report schedules defined by power users.  • Worked with ILog Jrule engine, to trigger the business rules in the rules execution engine configured in WebLogic application server.  • Developing new quote, renewal, and medical payment applications using JSF, Oracle ADF using JDeveloper.  • Cleaned up deployed or deprecated versions of BPM application from Oracle BPM (ALBPM) Engine in unix environment.  • Worked closely with developers and administrators from different infrastructure groups within the company as well with inter-plan companies (IBM MQ Series Support, Solaris Support, DBAdmin, WASAdmin, PDAdmin, DataPower, Network, Security, Shared Services and Vendors)  • Designed an 'Online Tutorial Forum' .Development of the forum was done using technologies such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and using Apache tomcat in spring 2010.  • Developed Oracle Stored Procedures to update records on a daily basis and it will invoke using cron job in LINUX; Responsible for the Migration of the application from Web Sphere to JBoss  • Used Resource Manager to schedule the job in Unix server.  • Applying Ruby on Rails and JQuery debugged, enhanced, extended business-to-business SAP application. Provided extensive integration and functional mocks testing  • Oversaw many conversions to WordPress and Magento  • Took graphic design comps and translated into fully standards-compliant web code (up to date CSS and HTML) for use in Drupal themes as well as static HTML sites.  • Project z technical advisor for a large CA (Computer Associates) to IBM software migration effort at a major US bank. My Project leadership and technical knowledge saved the customer over $3M per year and came in on time and under budget.  • Created online ASP.NET contact form to generate sales leads in SalesForce on the corporate website  • Experience in wring a new JCL and modify the existing JCL in order to run the batch job in USS environment  • Implemented logging functionality using log4j and developed Oracle PL/SQL queries and stored procedures    Environment: Java,J2EE, Spring, iBatis, Struts, JSF, EJB, JQuery, MYSQL, Toad, SQL Server, DB, APACHE AXIS2, WSDL, Netbeans, JBoss, CVS, Visual Source Safe, Selenium, Water fall Model , UML, JSP, SERVELT, ANT, Xml, EMC Documentation, JIRA, SWING, Cognos, ILOG, Apache Tomcat, Linux, Unix, Ruby, wordpress, drupal, Z, ASP, C, C++, Mainframe, COBOL, PL/I, JCL, SQL, SAS ,VB ,ASP. project management TEKsystems - Sioux Falls, SD January 2009 to August 2011 Sioux Falls, SD Jan 2009 to Aug 2011  ApplicationDeveloper    Responsibilities:  • Agile methodology was adopted in the development, and used Scrum method of project management.  • Implemented UI layer using Flex and business layer using Spring MVC and developed persistence layer using Hibernate.  • Designing Flex UI components as well as development of Flex custom components.  • Developed eye catching MXML view components using Flex Builder.  • Used Cairngorm MVC Architecture to handle the events and to retrieve the data from the server.  • Responsible for design and development of user interface using Flex Layout and Navigation, Data grid menus, and skinning components.  • Used Cisco Cues charts for creating Bar charts, Line charts and Pie Charts to show the project specific performance metrics  • Extensively used RemoteObjects to retrieve data from the remote server and perform required business functionalities from the front end.  • Used spring framework modules like Core container module, Application context module, Spring AOP module, Spring ORM and Spring MVC module.  • Configured Spring Application-Context.xml used by spring container to inject dependencies to java classes to optimize memory resources.  • Implemented Spring IoC (Dependency Injection) and Spring Aspect Oriented Programming(AOP) for the Business as well as Lookup Service Layer development.  • Developed / modified the model components to incorporate new business level validations.  • Responsible for the oracle schema design, generating various POJO objects and generating their corresponding Hibernate mappings (.hbm) files.  • Consumed WebServices for getting the credit card information from third party application.  • Used Singleton and DAO design pattern.  • Test Driven development is done by maintaining the Junit and FlexUnit test cases throughout the application.  • Log package is used for the debugging.  • Used ClearCase for version control.  • Ensuring adherence to delivery schedules and quality process on projects.    Environment: Java,J2EE,Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Flex, Action Script, MXML, XML, XSD, Java script, Blaze DS,Cairngorm MVC Framework, IBM RAD,ClearCase, Oracle 10g, Log4j, Webservices, Agile, ClearQuest, Maven, UML (Rational Rose), HTML, CSS and Windows Web Developer QAT Global - Omaha, NE June 2006 to December 2008 Responsibilities:  • Involved in modifying, updating and testing of the component.  • Involved in group meeting with teammates and made substantial changes to the architecture to improve performance of the Application.  • Developed stores procedures, triggers, functions and database tables in Oracle database.  • Modified JSPs, used struts tag libraries and Java Server Pages Standard Tag Library (JSTL).  • Maintained Struts architecture throughout the application.  • Developed the bean classes for better data exchange between the MVC layers  • Successfully differentiated presentation from code.  • Used multi threading and socket programming.  • Deployed the application on WebLogic Application Server.  • Created connection pools and data sources.  • Participated in daily meeting for enhancing the features for the portal.  • Modified JavaScript to read client side activities (events) and data and event validations.  • Used WinCVS as version Control system.  • Suggested ER models and changes in the table structures  • Modified SQL, PL/SQL procedures and triggers to obtain optimize output.  • Involved in separation of components and deploying in different servers and balancing the load among each Server.  • Solved performance issues and brought optimal output from the available resources.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Sybase, BEA WebLogic Server , JSTL, SQL Server, Struts Frame work, Servlets, JSP, EJB, WinCVS, JavaBeans, Eclipse, UML, Windows XP/Linux. Education Bachelor's Certifications/Licenses Project Management Professional (PMP) Driver's License