Director of Digital Marketing Director of Digital Marketing Director of Digital Marketing - Farouk Systems Inc Magnolia, TX David is a well-respected technologist and strategist. David has been creating, designing, and maintaining personal and professional websites since 2005. Within that time, David has acquired and mastered the skills necessary to become a successful manager, business partner, content/project  manager, and director of digital marketing. David possesses a superb ability to craft meaningful connections between people and their mission to media and technology. In a time when it seemed that e-mailing and texting was replacing the face-to-face business interactions, David shaped a career and developed a name for himself by becoming the face of several Chicagoland media firms. David's professional theory is centered on the idea that professional relationships should begin with a handshake, not a text.    David has been involved with numerous technologies and has been the common link in the successful launch of many up-and-coming websites. David maintains and develops initial business partnerships and has been personally responsible for the construction and creative design of websites for nearly 10,000 clients. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Director of Digital Marketing Farouk Systems Inc - Houston, TX September 2016 to Present • Devised strategies to drive online traffic to the company website.  • Tracking conversion rates and making improvements to the website.  • Developed and managed digital marketing campaigns.  6302 Palmer Ct. Magnolia, TX 77354 (P) 832-240-6474 dtv.nvs@gmail.com  www.nuwavedesignstudio.com www.linkedin.com/in/davidtvargas    • Utilizing a range of techniques including paid search, SEO and PPC.  • Overseeing the social media strategy for the company.  • Managing online brand and product campaigns to raise brand awareness.  • Managing the redesign of the company website.  • Improving the usability, design, content and conversion of the company website  • Responsibility for planning and budgetary control of all digital marketing  • Evaluating customer research, market conditions and competitor data.  • Review new technologies and keep the company at the forefront of developments in digital  marketing. Web Developer/Designer Patient Education Concepts - Houston, TX January 2015 to September 2016 • Established compatibility with third party software products by developing program for modification and integration.  • Completed detailed programming and development tasks for front end public and internal  websites as well as challenging back-end server code.  • Carried out quality assurance tests to discover errors and optimize usability.  • Coordinated with systems partners to finalize designs and confirm requirements.  • Implemented company policies, technical procedures and standards for preserving the integrity  and security of data, reports and access.  • Designed strategic plan for component development practices to support future projects.  • Consistently met deadlines and requirements for all production work orders.  • Managed creative projects from concept to completion while managing outside vendors. Production Manager / Sr Web Developer Dealerwebb Services - Houston, TX November 2012 to January 2015 Lead team of 8 in development, testing, debugging, and maintenance of dynamic and secure  websites and web-based applications, including widgets, templates, and microsites Used  ASP.NET, JavaScript, AJAX, XML, J2EE, and other front-end and middle-tier technologies and standards, as well as content management system.  • Oversaw third-party content integration and migration project involving architecture, design,  implementation, and testing of integrated web applications on aggressive timeline.  • Managed documentation of and training on production procedures and work instructions.  • Planned, directed, coordinated and assigned manpower to meet aggressive production  schedules.  6302 Palmer Ct. Magnolia, TX 77354 (P) 832-240-6474 dtv.nvs@gmail.com  www.nuwavedesignstudio.com www.linkedin.com/in/davidtvargas    • Investigated and implement ideas for quality improvement, increased productivity and cost  reduction. Senior Web Developer Fusion Technology Solutions Group - Chicago, IL January 2005 to November 2012 • Conceptualized, planned and executed original designs for a wide range of website properties.  • Designed print and marketing initiatives for all website properties.  • Communicated neutrally, empathically and comfortably with team members, clients and customers.  • Defined new approaches to complex design problems.  • Used site analytics and metrics to define and monitor success.  • Created wireframes, screen-flow diagrams and UI spec documentation.  • Built user interface, data visualizations and designed overall user experience, resulting in 50%  increase in sales.  • Conducted usability testing and post-deployment evaluations to measure user experience  success.  • Created reusable processes, components and tools that leveraged into 10 other projects,  accelerating development progress. Education Computer Science Saint Xavier University - Chicago, IL 2005 to 2009 Skills MARKETING (10+ years), DIGITAL MARKETING (10+ years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), PHP (10+ years), CMS, Google Adwords, HTML, SEO, Social Media Marketing, Social Media Management, Photoshop, Google Analytics, Customer Service Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/davidtvargas Additional Information Skills  • HTML5 / CSS3  • JavaScript  • PHP  • E-commerce background  • WordPress / CMS Systems  • Data management  • PHP  • Adobe Creative Suite  • Direct email campaigns  • Advanced graphic design  • Print advertisements  • Digital marketing  • Self-motivated  • Strategic thinking