PHP Developer / Practically the CIO PHP <span class="hl">Developer</span> / Practically the CIO AWS Certified Solutions Architect & Senior Wordpress, Drupal & PHP Web Developer Woodstock, GA While at Turner, ~3x-10x'ed CNN.com's page load speed through a prototype by rearchitecting it in a theme-matching prototype for an estimated ~$15 million / year revenue increase and a $1 billion user-time-savings. Ideated & architected the improvements on my own between tasks, developed proof-of-concepts & a presentation, passed two rounds of vetting, and shared the improvement suggestions with CNN developers  - Invented and developed a Wordpress plugin that automatically SEOs small business websites using highly advanced analysis, and showcases knowledge of almost every aspect of Wordpress plugin development. You can check it out at bestlocalseotools.com and in the Wordpress.org plugin directory.  - While at Turner, helped maintain the highly-trafficked websites Golf.com and SI.com (Sports Illustrated) and was recommended for other work at Turner by multiple managers  - Took over a CIO-level role with Tea Party Patriots and became a certified AWS Solutions Architect (which is one of the most valuable tech certifications available -- even higher in market value than a PhD in computer science according to salary surveys).  - Founded and ran a web development shop for about a decade and maintained an A+ BBB rating.  - As the only kid in my top-tier high school's class to place into all honors classes, I was heavily recruited by the Ivy League, but instead went to the University of Michigan, and was a member of their famed football team (as a placekicker), where the business & compsci programs were also higher rated than Harvard's. I've since invested that focus into computers, software and business.    Ben is an AWS Certified Solutions Architect and Senior PHP/Wordpress/Drupal Web Developer, with 13 plus years of PHP and significant management, consulting, and project management experience. He has 12 plus years of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. He has 10 years of MySQL and 10 years of Wordpress. He has 9 years of jQuery. He also has 3 years of XML, 4 years of JSON, and 3 years of Shell Scripting on Unix. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience PHP Developer / Practically the CIO Tea Party Patriots 2018 to Present Replaced the role of 4 people and about $600,000 per year of salary, all of whom had left / been hired away before I was hired, leaving me as the only developer with little guidance and mainly the documentation alone to run a codebase of 20+ man-years of development in an AWS cloud setup where the servers running it were crashing every few weeks -- all with very little ramp-up time as the 2018 election neared. I stabilized the system, quickly learned and operated the significant amount of code needed to power the various get-out-the-vote systems, kept the "trains running" as hired to do, and also went beyond the job description by pitching and developing an online peer-to-peer SMS texting system for the 2018 get-out-the-vote campaign (as a Wordpress plugin), which the TPP Chairman loved and described as their best tool for getting out the vote. I also went beyond the job description by often doing server maintenance tasks at uncomfortable hours early in the morning and on weekends. I extended the peer-to-peer-texting plugin to work for online phone banking and online mail banking / letter writing as well, making it a complete get-out-the-vote system for the Tea Party Patriots volunteer base to be able to easily get involved.    Other job responsibilities / accomplishments included:  ? Studied for and passed the prestigious AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associate exam  ? Performed various server hardware and software upgrades in an AWS cloud environment running on EC2, Docker, Multi-AZ RDS, ElastiCache, Elastic Beanstalk, S3, Cloudfront, ELBs, git, bash scripts & advanced Route53 configurations in a job that spanned from UI design and coding to cloud devops  ? Managed, updated & bugfixed a CodeIgniter / Custom OO PHP API / Custom OO Javascript API / Wordpress stack  ? Updated APIs to keep them working  ? Developed and ran advanced SQL queries for report generation as needed / requested  ? Developed a tensorflow deep neural network model for advanced big data analysis using cutting-edge AI / artificial intelligence Senior Web Developer Mopdog, Inc 2015 to 2018 Developed, modified and debugged plugins and responsive themes for Wordpress.  ? Helped develop pitches and maintained & modified Wordpress sites and maintained their security for clients.  ? Invented, pitched and developed a Wordpress plugin, Best Local SEO Tools (bestlocalseotools.com), in my free time between tasks, which earned additional revenue as it was used for clients and also got traffic and leads for the company.  ? On one of the larger projects, enduringhearts.org, I developed a responsive Wordpress theme from a .psd, developed a custom WooCommerce subscriptions payment integration plugin with a payment API we helped define, and developed a back-end system and plugin for scientific advisors to collaboratively rate and score (via Wordpress' ajax integration point) uploaded grant applications uploaded on the front-end by researchers.  ? Other sites I built out include raisinghelp.org and wholesalecoffeebeans.net, which is a contest site that allows people to submit and vote upon coffee flavor ideas, Reddit-style. I ended up using and modifying a plugin for that one.  ? Occasionally developed HTML emails from .psds Senior Consultant, Senior PHP / Drupal / Wordpress Developer Turner 2014 to 2015 3x-10x'ed CNN.com's page load speed through a prototype by rearchitecting it in a theme-matching prototype for an estimated ~$15 million / year revenue increase and a $1 billion user-time-savings. Ideated & architected the improvements on my own between tasks, developed proof-of-concepts & a presentation, passed two rounds of vetting, and shared the improvement suggestions with CNN developers  ? Provided support, Drupal code maintenance, custom coding & migration for Golf.com & SI.com  ? Resolved cache-level bugs and errors as they occurred, often when on-call  ? Updated Golf.com's Twitter API Integration  ? Developed a Drupal module integrating CoverItLive and DFP ads with a co-worker  ? Updated and QA'd Golf.com's leaderboard code for the latest Ryder Cup data feed  ? Developed and debugged Drupal Views for Top Courses lists on Golf.com  ? Developed and maintained code to help data-dump course data  ? Ran and QA'd drush-based data dump scripts for moving Golf.com content to JSON files  ? Made various theme adjustments and minor bug fixes on Golf.com and SI.com  ? Worked on a presentation for Drupal performance improvement through database denormalization  ? Developed a script to automate leaderboard updates on Golf.com  ? Developed a 9-point plan & Drupal concept site to 2x-10x Golf.com pageviews for the job interview  ? Thoroughly studied and learned the Drupal CMS platform Senior PHP Web Developer/Founder Web & Graphic Solutions, Inc 2004 to 2014 Personally provided consulting, custom PHP/MySQL web development, various PHP/MySQL software platform integrations, web design, marketing, and graphic design for business websites.  ? With client input, designed and developed lots of ecommerce websites and other custom PHP/MySQL projects on various PHP/MySQL platforms, often with customizations such as CRM integration, social voting, online scheduling, and multi-level-marketing.  ? Managed remote contractors to complete web development and marketing projects  ? Attended various tech conferences, SEO conferences, and Wordcamps  ? Personally developed an enormous social network side project (Meet Neighbors) built on the Wordpress & Buddypress PHP platforms, with features including localized & customizable newsfeed, 100 different social post and review types, local news feeds, recommender systems, live chat / video chat & much more.  MeetNeighbors.net (currently being migrated to jQuery Mobile framework on MeetNeighbors.com)  ? Highly Customized PHP/MySQL WordPress/BuddyPress OOP/MVC Stack.  ? Show Users On a Map JavaScript Integration with Google Maps and then Leaflet.  ? Custom Designed and Conversion Rate Tested.  ? JavaScript Hover cards on User Photos Shows Profile Information via jQuery, AJAX & MySQL.  ? Directory of Businesses shows category and location-based results for businesses in a particular area  using PHP, MySQL Queries, and modification/rewrite to create SEO-friendly URL's.  ? Modifications to the social software made so that users are automatically joined to groups based on their interests and profile information.  ? Modifications made using jQuery, AJAX, PHP & MySQL to allow users to post 100 different post  types instead of just one post type (i.e. Reviews of Books, Businesses, Bucket List Items, Plans, etc.)  ? PHP Email importer script integration to allow users to invite their friends to join the site.  ? Leaderboard and Local Leaderboard reports programmed using PHP and MySQL Queries.  ? Robust Recommendations System and Algorithm integration using PHP & MySQL (recommends  friends, books, businesses, movies, etc. based on user info provided).  ? Customized JavaScript chat system to enable smart-random-chat with recommended online friends.  ? Using Flash/Flex Builder, customized JavaScript chat system to enable browser-based video chat.  ? Created a mobile version of the site using JavaScript and the SideTap (sidetap.it) framework.  ? Made many signup flow customizations and split tests using PHP & MySQL.  MyCabinCrew.com  ? Integrated CRELoaded and SugarCRM through PHP and MySQL customizations to enable online  scheduling of cleaning services which would then be fulfilled by various vendors. It was pretty much  made into a marketplace where any vendor could post their services was my recollection.  Chorelink.com  ? Customized a CRELoaded storefront, using custom PHP and MySQL, to transform the storefront into a marketplace for posting chores. Vendors could then buy subscriptions to be alerted to when chores of a certain type were posted in a certain area.  ElectionCandidates.com  ? Developed a PHP / MySQL (customized BuddyPress & WordPress) social network for political  Candidates.  ? Client was reportedly ultimately offered $500,000 for the site before he closed it down.  ? The customizations I made enabled users to invite their friends, "vote" for candidates listed on the site, share those votes/endorsements, chat, video chat and create video chat rooms.  GC Consulting Group  ? Designed and built out a documents ecommerce site based on CRELoaded.  Web & Graphic Solutions, Inc.  ? Built and optimized a services website that integrated online ordering with a SugarCRM backend  through SOAP via custom PHP code.  ? Developed a job application system in PHP & MySQL & processed thousands of applications.  Trunks Depot  ? Designed and Themed a CRELoaded ecommerce storefront using CSS and PHP file customizations.  Exotic Floors Direct  ? Designed and optimized a brochure-style ecommerce website. Gained leads from the rankings.  More portfolio examples (archived) can also be viewed at http://www.webandgraphicsolutions.com/portfolio.html on http://archive.org Education Computer Science HOPE COLLEGE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN Business & Computer Science University of Michigan Ann Arbor Skills Api, C++, Docker, Git, Html, Javascript, Json, memcache, Object oriented, Object oriented programming, Oop, Perl, Php, Python, Scripting, Solr, Svn, System development, Xml, Xslt, AWS, EC2, MySQL, Wordpress, Drupal, Amazon Web Services, CodeIgniter, Jquery, CSS, HTML 5 Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associate Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  ? PHP, Wordpress & Wordpress Multi-Site, Drupal, MySQL, Javascript, jQuery, AJAX, HTML, CSS, Redis, Python, NodeJS, Shell Scripting / Bash Scripting, Docker, Git, EC2, RDS, Elastic Beanstalk, S3, ElastiCache, Scrapy, Elasticsearch, Search Engine Optimization / SEO, Pay-Per-Click / Adwords / SEM / Search Engine Marketing, Buddypress, XSLT, Perl, API Integration, Social Network API Integration, Twitter API, Social App/Network Development, CRELoaded, OSCommerce, Magento, SugarCRM, DOJO, jQuery UI, MVC, YUI, Scaling, Scalability, Database Optimization, Email Marketing, Direct Mail, Public Relations, OOP (Object Oriented Programming), MVC Patterns, Smarty Templates, GIS, Google Maps, Leaflet Maps Javascript API, Dreamweaver, Flash, Flex Builder, Photoshop, Fireworks, Illustrator, InDesign, Graphic Design, Wireframing, Web Crawling, Indexing, AWS, GitHub, Bug Tracking & Patch Submission Systems, Linux, Apache, cPanel, Plesk, DNS, Local SEO, Google Analytics, Google Website Optimizer, Split Testing, Ad Split Testing, Page Split Testing, Site-wide Split Testing, Onboarding Process Split Testing, Email Split Testing, Email Marketing, PHP Split Testing System Development, Cross-Browser Compatibility, Responsive Design, Mobile Web Development, jQuery Mobile, PhoneGap iOS & Android Mobile App Development, XML, JSON, Java, C++, Java Applets, Jira, SCRUM, Agile Development, Memcache, Apache Solr, Gamification, SVN