Production Support Application Developer II Production Support Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> II Senior Web Developer Wichita, KS Senior Web Developer and Data Analyst with extensive full stack experience. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Production Support Application Developer II CLC Lodging - Wichita, KS July 2018 to Present • PHP and MySQL development of FEMA Website for emergency housing.   • Develop and implement strategies to move source control from CVS to GitLab.  • Ensuring the stability and performance of production systems by responding to, and pro-actively identifying, system vulnerabilities and defects. Apply standard techniques and creative solutions to mitigate risk and deliver a better operating application and infrastructure environment as well as establish up time & performance monitoring methodologies.  • Analyze and troubleshoot production systems and applications across a broad spectrum of technologies  • Primary focus in Oracle PL/SQL based applications and adjoining systems including web/mobile applications and services  • Assist with monitoring and responding to reported product issues from internal and external sources  • Analyze complex applications, system and infrastructure issues  • Collaborate with numerous business and IT entities to resolve production issues (network, windows, Unix, production control, development, application support, users, quality assurance, and LOB/ IT management)  • Participate in system testing and validation of production changes  • Extensive modification to Oracle applications utilizing SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle Forms Web Interface Developer II Werner Enterprises - Omaha, NE May 2016 to June 2018 • Development of web based software for Werner Logistics.   • Developed and implemented web based software applications including coding, testing, debugging, installing and support for Werner Logistics.   • Troubleshooting, debugging and implementing new functionality and fixes to software.   • Developed detailed documentation specifications and unit test plans for all code created or modified.   • Researched and resolved production support issues as they occurred.  • ColdFusion, JSP, and PHP web development.  • Java middle tier development with Angular JS front end.  • Developed and implemented strategy to upgrade ColdFusion servers from version 8 to version 11. Data Analyst III Northwest Permanente - Portland, OR May 2014 to April 2016 • Developed web applications for HEDIS measures.  • Utilized Epic Clarity data and analyzed using SAS, Oracle, and Terradata. Director ECConnect - Seattle, WA January 2013 to May 2014 • Led a team of web developers, Systems Administrators, and MySQL DBA's at a Telecom startup.  • Redesigned software built for the German telecom Amaysim to work in the US market.  • Established, planned, and administered the overall policies and goals for the information technology department. Analyzed the needs of ECConnect's clients and determined ways to meet business objectives by modifying existing or developing new information processing systems. Sr. Web Developer Self Employed - Overland Park, KS December 2009 to December 2012 • Developed customized PHP and ColdFusion web applications.  • Consultant for CenturyLink and AT&T IT Manager UT Systems/MD Anderson Cancer Research Center - Houston, TX June 2007 to November 2009 • Managed systems analysts, applications architects, and DBA's for grant certification software (ECRT) for the 8 academic institutions and 6 health science centers/medical schools/research institutes of the University of Texas.  • Developed and implemented a web based solution to expedite and integrate intake records of cancer patients allowing them to begin treatment in a matter of hours instead of a matter of months, thus reducing mortality rate by an estimated 1.3%.  • Wrote prototype development applications for electronic medical records.  • Developed online application for physician re-credentialing Sr. Web Developer Self Employed - Omaha, NE December 2005 to May 2007 • Developed customized ColdFusion, Classic ASP, and PHP web applications.  • Consultant for the State of Nebraska and developed the state's unemployment tax web site. Web Developer/Programmer AT&T - San Antonio, TX October 2001 to November 2005 • Created web applications in Classic ASP, PHP, and ColdFusion  • Developed an online catalog AT&T products for vendors.  • Developed an ordering system for vendors to directly create invoices.  • Developed an online provisioning of phone systems application for vendors.  • Developed one of the first online cell phone provisioning systems for Cingular Wireless.   • Developed stored procedures, views, tables, and all of the SQL on MS SQL Server 2000 for the applications mentioned above as well as several for billing applications and vendor tracking. Adjunct Professor University of Nebraska at Kearney - Kearney, NE August 1997 to May 2001 • Taught Freshman Composition and Literature  • Served as interim adjunct faculty chair Education Master's in English Rhetoric and Composition University of Nebraska - Kearney, NE August 1995 to July 1999 Bachelor's in Biopsychology Hastings College - Hastings, NE August 1991 to May 1995 Skills PHP (5 years), SQL (10+ years), JQuery (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), Coldfusion (10+ years), JSON (10+ years), XML (10+ years), Web Services (10+ years), Web Development (10+ years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/scottneth/