Senior UI Developer Senior UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior UI Developer - Sabre Corporation Southlake, TX -    9+ years of experience in designing and developing User Interactive web applications using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AngularJS, Angular 2, ReactJS, jQuery, AJAX, JSON.  • Strong JavaScript & jQuery skills - able to write unobtrusive custom code as well as implement existing jQuery plugins.  • Moved existing AngularJS controllers and services to Angular 2 components for more responsive and less dependency.  • Proficient in making AJAX calls using jQuery and usage of JSON for faster and impulsive responses.  • Extensive knowledge in developing single page applications (SPAs) using JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS and ReactJS.  • Strong design aesthetics for typography, Usability concepts, layout, branding, representing content and data in wire frames, and web user interface.  • Excellent experience and Knowledge in CSS with preprocessors like LESS and SASS.  • Good knowledge of Responsive Web Design (RWD) using Bootstrap and CSS3 media queries.  • Ability to apply W3C web standards to ensure best cross-browser user experience, long-term user retention, and engagement.  • Experience in working on Routes in AngularJS creating the base route and extensions by using Router Config as an injectable URL path and customized component for each of the web page in Angular.  • Adapted Model-View-Controller (MVC) frameworks for developing web applications.  • Command in ReactJS for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts.  • Worked extensively on Angular 2, Typescript SPA domains.  • Sound understanding of RESTful services and APIs.  • Extensive knowledge in developing dynamic Interactive graphs using D3.js with JSON data and use of D3.js  • for charting and rich interactive widgets.  • Familiar with Gulp or Grunt task runner to manage project and Bower package manager to install libraries.  • Performed unit testing using Jasmine and Karma, along with integration testing Chrome Inspector to fix bugs and worked closely with QA.  • Worked on different Package docs like Web Pack and BABEL as transpiler, Good Knowledge on Deployment in AWS services such as EC2, S3, and Deployment on multiple Database.  • Sound knowledge in JavaScript and ES6 concepts like prototypes, Scope chains, Closures, Promises and Arrow functions.  • Worked in ReactJS for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts.  • Designed Single Page Applications (SPA) using Angular 2 and Backbone.js.  • Knowledge of Performance Testing in web-based, Client -server applications using JMeter.  • Experience in software configuration management using version controls like SVN and GIT. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior UI Developer Sabre Corporation - Southlake, TX September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed single page applications using Angular 4/5, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap4  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 4/5.  • Designed the front-end applications, User Interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML5/CSS3, Angular4, Angular5 and bootstrap.  • Worked with Angular4/Angular5 framework in front end development that implements MVC pattern.  • Worked on various projects in B2B, B2C websites using Angular4/Angular5 framework involving Angular Directives, Components, Filters, Factory, Service, Angular Forms, and Angular Expressions.  • Created reusable templates using Angular directives and worked with NPM package manager tools (Node JS)  • Good knowledge on using Angular APIs like @angular/http [For making HTTP requests], @angular/common [ Common core things including form validation], @angular/router [Routing for the entire app]  • Implemented HTTP requests using Observable library to handle multiple values over time.  • Good knowledge on creating services with Angular 4 @injectable property, as to make the service available for dependency injection when creating components.  • Implemented Node.js router to make cross-domain requests to API services: Spotify API, GitHub API, MongoDB  • Called the Restful web service calls for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods.  • Extensively worked with making calls to WEB APIs to fetch the data from the back end as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation  • Solid knowledge of API authorization flow.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for a web application, page navigation using Angular 4  • Used Git for managing source code.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Typescript, Bootstrap4, Angular 4/5, REST API's, Node JS, NPM, MongoDB, Git, Agile Senior UI Developer Kaiser Permanente - Pleasanton, CA June 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked on an Agile (Scrum) Development Team to deliver regular updates to business team and project managers.  • Involved in designing and developing the web pages using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, React.js, Redux, Flex, Node JS, Mongo DB.  • Responsible to Style, look and feel of the web page with SASS that extends CSS with dynamic behavior such as variable, mixing, operations and functions.  • Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Involved to implement various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept.  • Implemented stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Responsible for React UI and architecture. Building components library, including Tree, Slide-View, and Table Grid.  • Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Used React-autocomplete for creating google maps location search on the webpage.  • Configured Web pack to execute linters, magnifiers, pre/post-processors, tests, transpires, etc. based on build target.  • Utilized React for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app that searched projects via the GitHub API through keywords.  • Developed the React container and presentational components (as Stateless and Functional components when applicable).  • Developed the flux pattern by using redux framework as a core dependency.  • Used Node Package Manager (NPM) to manage modules & used it to install useful tools as Grunt, and Express.  • Developed the application on Node JS platform using JavaScript programming  • Implement modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Developed single application to render dynamically based on the JSON from the Node JS server  • Fetch data from mongo DB using Mangoose of Node.js.  • Experience in RESTful web services to integrate between Server side to Client Side  • Worked with Mocha unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code.  • Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  • Handled cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on both Windows.  • Used JIRA to keep track of outstanding bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and improve communication.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, JavaScript, React JS, Redux, Flex, Web Strom, JSP, MS Office, JIRA, Mocha, GitHub, and Jenkins. Web UI Developer Standard Chartered Bank - New York, NY January 2015 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing use cases with the help of business analyst team and developed technical requirement documents. Helped the client project management team to identify the suitable technology and tools required for the projects.  • Developed Web Application using Angular 2, UI Bootstrap3, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and SASS. The project is built upon the Single Page Application criteria.  • Developed Angular 2 components that could be reused in various parts of the application and form field validation.  • Involved in building applications using React JS by building re-usable UI Components.  • Developed various AJAX controls and widgets to build a rich User Interface for the application.  • Worked with Angular 2 component based Redux architecture for authoring complex decorators, services, components, and pipes, working with animations, routing.  • Worked on Angular 2 by consuming Restful web services & Used Angular 2 forms like Template Driven forms and Modern Driven (Reactive) forms to perform form validations both on server and client side.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component-based architecture provided by Angular 4.  • Implemented Angular 2 services to connect the web application to back-end APIs to POST/GET the data used in the application.  • Implemented Angular Router to enable navigation from one view to the next as agent performs application tasks.  • Worked on React JS for developing UI using Sorting, Pagination and rendering for search product page.  • Created TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using component-based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Created custom directives in Angular 2 for reusable components.  • Utilized Observables for http error handling with catch and throw RxJS operators.  • Worked on Angular 2 concepts such as two-way binding, *ngif and *ngFor structural directives, property binding, services, dependency injection, routing.  • Implemented authentication system using JWT (JSON Web Tokens), Local Storage on the client side and OAuth2, Redis (Session Store) on the server side.  • Implemented UX standards and best practices in web application user interface for web, desktop, mobile and tablet browsers.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for a web application, page navigation using Angular 4.  • Creating custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of core AngularJS and React.js.  • Developed server-side application using NodeJS with Express framework that handles the HTTP requests, performs all the CRUD operations such as get, post, put and delete.  • Developed Web API using NodeJS and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  • Employed Express JS to set up middle-wares to respond to HTTP requests.  • Worked with BOWER components to install all front-end packages and their dependencies.  • Used Grunt to create UI builds and run UI tasks like compiling less files to generate a CSS file  • Extensively used JavaScript testing tool Jasmine for unit testing and used JIRA for project tracking and bug tracking.  Environment: HTML4/5, CSS3/2, Angular 2, Bootstrap3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, NodeJS, Jasmine, JIRA, Grunt, WebStorm and GIT. Frontend UI developer CNO Financial Group - Frisco, TX October 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, ReactJS, Bootstrap, NodeJS and AJAX.  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Involved in building applications using ReactJS by building re-usable UI Components.  • Worked on Bootstrap, LESS to develop User Interface with responsive design.  • Created responsive layouts for mobile plot forms by created grid model using bootstrap.  • Experienced in developing web and mobile applications using latest JavaScript ES6 features and frameworks such as React, and Redux.  • Used JavaScript and GWT to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time in web pages to get user input and requests and Developed dynamic frontends using ReactJS.  • Done performance testing of the web services using Jmeter scripts.  • Involved in building applications using React JS by building re-usable UI Components.  • Used Redux to store data from multiple API endpoints.  • Extensively used core features like Props and State.  • Created performance testing environment and installed all the necessary components of load Runner on the different machines  • Worked on React JS for developing UI using Sorting, Pagination and rendering for search product page.  • Used React JS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Built and Stylized components using React Native.  • Worked on ReactJS for developing UI using Sorting, Pagination and rendering for search product page.  • Analyzed LoadRunner on-line graphs and reports to check where performance delays occurred, network or client delays, CPU performance, I/O delays, database locking, or other issues at the database server.  • Used AJAX to reduce the network load and update only the certain components of the website.  • Extensively used core features like Props and State and worked on React JS for developing UI using sorting, Pagination and rendering for search product page.  • Used ReactJS with Redux to create a single page web application with efficient data flow between the client and server and used to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Involved in ReactJS for Data patterns which improves readability and made it easier to maintain larger apps and used ReactJS for declarative, efficient, and flexible JavaScript library for building user interfaces.  • Used Redux Framework architecture (like Reducers, Containers, Saga) for integrating the data with React Native Applications.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Redux, ReactJS, MongoDB, Web pack, AJAX, JSON, RESTful Web Services, NodeJS, Grunt, Karma, React Native GIT and Agile. Web UI Developer Rite Aid - Camp Hill, PA July 2011 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all aspects of SDLC from design, development, testing, production support and prepared technical reports & documentation manuals during the program development.  • Analyzed and discussed the client requirements with the business team based on the BRD documents.  • Developed JSP, HTML pages to check the user settings like turn on the application debugging and verifying the user authentication, check user access roles.  • Designed and developed GUI pages using CSS, HTML, JQuery, AJAX, DOJO, JSTL, PHP and JSP.  • Develop and Design UI using angular.js, React.js and node.js  • Worked on JavaScript frame work (Angular JS, Backbone JS, and Bootstrap) to augment browser-based applications with MVC capability.  • Developed the User Interactive web pages in a professional manner with using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP and AngularJS as per company's standards.  • Involved in team meetings with corporate webmaster's UI team and end user client for understanding needs in new implementation & Involved in daily team meetings & weekly scrum meetings.  • Always provide constructive suggestions for change from UI/UX point of view.  • Migrated content from existing website to a new, database driven website and utilized in house Content Management System.  • Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme for his website and implemented it into a final interface design.  • Refine and iterate user experience by designing and implementing new modules and interfaces in a complex, responsive site.  • Involved in finding out the bugs, broken links and missing images etc. and rectifying them.  • Developed dynamic e-mails using JavaScript, and hand coding of HTML, XHTML, PHP and CSS.  • Designed and developed the layouts of Customer Relations Module with felx.  • Developed client-side validation code using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Deep knowledge of AngularJS practices and commonly used modules based on extensive work experience.  • Utilized gulp, NPM, Grunt, Babel, jQuery, and LESS for updating packages and JavaScript architecture  • Creating self-contained, reusable, and testable modules and components.  • Creating custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of core AngularJS and React.js.  Environment: HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, DOJO, Node JS, JQuery, Angular JS, CSS, XML, JDBC, Log4J2, JIRA, GIT, PHP, Oracle 9i, Windows, Linux/Unix, Oracle 9i, Linux/Unix. Web Developer BlueCubeIT - Houston, TX February 2009 to June 2011 Responsibilities:  • Develop and Test a multi tier Web Application with .NET MVC, SQL Server and Angular JS.  • Implemented business logic in accordance with SOLID principal and OOPs design patterns, such as singleton and factory.  • Created unit tests to determine logical issues during continuous integration (CI) Education Bachelor's Skills Front End, Angular, React, Javascript, UI