Web/Internal Applications Developer <span class="hl">Web</span>/Internal Applications <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web/Internal Applications Developer Las Vegas, NV Experience in website, E-Commerce and applications development including:  ? Designing and developing front end concepts for the web and kiosk applications per  requirements given by client  ? Writing custom solutions and algorithms in multiple languages  ? Implementing customized solutions for retrieval and display of data  ? Graphic design and site architecture  ? Working directly with clients to create solutions that are functional and appealing  ? Communicating with management and team/project members to ensure accurate and  on time project delivery  ? Creating documentation for end users  ? Gathering requirements and scope for applications Work Experience Web/Internal Applications Developer Holiday Systems International - Las Vegas, NV February 2017 to May 2019 Originally hired to focus on an internal legacy project written in VB. Went on to introduce new  ideas for development focusing on JavaScript and associated frameworks such as AngularJS.  Additionally, worked my way up to full time developer in C# and SQL.    ? Designed and developed an all new internal reservations and booking tracking system in SQL, C#, JavaScript from the ground up, including all graphical design elements. This project  replaced a much slower and more difficult to use system.    ? Helped develop JSON RESTful API projects in c# for communication between the company's  vast SQL data stores and various types of consuming applications.    ? Took over development on several long neglected projects, after the original developers  moved on and there was no one else to carry on with the work. Such projects included promotion  redemption, hotel booking reservation systems and online shopping carts.    ? Technologies used: C#, VB, AngularJS, React, jQuery, CSS, HTML, JavaScript. Version control  via Microsoft TFS. Web Applications Developer Smart Software Solutions - Las Vegas, NV January 2016 to February 2017 Responsible for providing new functionality for ongoing projects, as well as enhancing existing  code on legacy projects.    Served as key member of development team responsible for (among other duties) converting an outdated and incomplete client work ticketing area to a RESTful API / AngularJS system, for an  industry dominant service/bidding software company (subject to non-disclosure agreement; no  further details available).    Required to become proficient and think creatively in any and all styles of programming used for company clients. Fast paced environment, with an emphasis on rapid development of efficient  solutions.    ? Helped to design and develop a new PHP based JSON RESTful API as the dominant link  between an AngularJS based front end, and an SQL Server 2008 back end. Said API to be  responsible for displaying and recording virtually all interactions via a secure channel using JWT  authentication.    ? Quickly and efficiently developed AngularJS modules, services, controllers, directives, views, etc that functioned according to client's needs and supplied mock-ups. Using Angular MV style  architecture resulted in a much more flexible and decoupled solution than the previous  Javascript/jQuery template system.    ? Also contributed to another project for a communications company's call center desktop  software application based in C#. Responsibilities for that included developing WPF based  configuration displays that used JSON supplied from a central service.    ? Technologies used: PHP, CSS, HTML, JavaScript with an emphasis on AngularJS consuming a RESTful API for bi-directional database communication. Version control via Subversion SVN and  external file control / minification via Grunt. Web Applications Developer Advantage Promotional Systems - Las Vegas, NV March 2014 to November 2015 Responsible for building customized interactive marketing promotions that ran on the floors of nearly all Caesars Entertainment Corporation casino properties across North America.    Responsible for building as well as standardizing UI/UX components for widespread use by other  company developers.    Tasked with providing round the clock support and communication with Caesars Entertainment  personnel for all needs related to deployed campaigns.    ? Initially hired as UI/UX developer, then promoted to .NET developer. Successfully held  and managed the responsibilities of both positions simultaneously.  ? Built scores of highly interactive, flexible and efficient campaigns that have been used by hundreds of thousands of Caesars Entertainment Total Rewards card holders across the  country.  ? Designed and developed several unique algorithms that have become standard in the company code base.  ? Developed several challenging and complex campaigns that previously would have required  multiple developers with disparate skill sets to complete (C#, SQL, LINQ, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Photoshop, Illustrator).  ? Tasked with moving the company's development framework to the MVC method of development for all campaigns.  ? Technologies used include: C# / ASP.Net WebForms, SQL Server, LINQ, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, jQuery, PhotoShop, Illustrator, etc. Website Designer / Developer / Administrator HOH Wholesale - Salt Lake City, UT June 2010 to December 2014 Las Vegas, NV    Designed and developed highly customized e-commerce website for niche product branch of company specializing in smoke shop products and supplies. Oversaw administration of website,  credit card transactions / sales, shipping and delivery of all products. Managed all customer  inquiries and requests, targeted advertising, newsletters, sales, and promotions.    ? Created customized e-commerce presence from scratch in competitive emerging market.  Built loyal customer following with numbers in the thousands. These efforts resulted in gross sales of approximately $500,000 over 2 years from web sales alone.  ? Technologies used include: MivaScript (proprietary language of Miva Merchant E-Commerce  system), JavaScript, Ajax, SQL, Photoshop, Illustrator, Flash with ActionScript, etc. Senior Instructor / Web Developer / Administrator Fusion Academy - Salt Lake City, UT 2006 to 2010 Designed, developed and administered local martial arts academy website. Provided instruction in the martial arts, including Gracie (a.k.a. Brazilian) Jiu-Jitsu, judo and wrestling to both adults and  children of varying skill levels.    ? Developed attractive and highly ranked web presence that, as nearly the sole method of advertising, built academy base from zero to hundreds of students.  ? Provided comprehensive instruction in the application and tradition of Gracie Jiu-Jitsu to a large, highly diverse student body.  ? Technologies used include: HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, Ajax, PhotoShop, Illustrator, etc Lead Programmer / Applications Developer Media Services International - Cape Coral, FL 2004 to 2010 Designed and developed numerous applications for existing small to medium sized e-commerce  websites. Specialized in high level customization of popular turnkey e-commerce solutions such as Miva Merchant and OpenCart.    ? Designed, programmed and helped administer e-commerce websites for a wide variety of clients across diverse markets, including: sports and fitness, photography, clothing and  apparel, home furnishings, industrial printing, and aviation supply. Helped to greatly  extend the functionality of all client stores.  ? Technologies used include: MivaScript (proprietary language of Miva Merchant E- Commerce system), JavaScript, HTML, CSS, PERL, CGI, Ajax, MySQL, PhotoShop,  Illustrator, Flash with ActionScript, etc. Skills Visual studio, C#, Html, Javascript, Php, Css, Sql, jquery, Angularjs, Mvc, Actionscript, Flash, Illustrator, Photoshop Additional Information Technical Skills    C#, VB, MVC, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, Jquery, SQL, Flash w/ActionScript, MivaScript,  PHP, Visual Studio, SQL Manager, PhotoShop, Illustrator, etc.