Web Developer / Social Media Manager / Online Sales Specialist (eBay, Amazon, Shopify) <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> / Social Media Manager / Online Sales Specialist (eBay, Amazon, Shopify) Web Developer / Graphic Designer / Social Media & Content Manager / Online Sales Specialist Las Vegas, NV I am a goal driven web developer with 15+ years of experience in design and development. I have strong communication skills and build long lasting, productive relationships with the people I work with. I am very reliable, dependable and always diligent in completing my work while meeting all deadlines. I thrive in fast-paced environments and find challenges a chance for improvement. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer / Social Media Manager / Online Sales Specialist (eBay, Amazon, Shopify) USATuff March 2016 to Present With USATuff I am responsible for multiple tasks. I handle the social media accounts along with all web development through Shopify. I also am responsible for maintaining the eBay and Amazon stores with 10,000+ products. This includes SEO, image edits and content. Web Developer/ Graphic Designer/ Social Media & Content Manager B&H Wealth Strategies - Kingsport, TN September 2014 to Present I manage all web content including email campaigns, social media, graphics and video. I am responsible for our online presence as well as developing new content regularly. I maintain the site in Dreamweaver and WordPress. I also create and maintain videos using Adobe Premiere. For any designing I use Adobe Photoshop and Adobe InDesign if working with PDFs. I work remotely with the home office in TN. Book Designer/ Web Developer/ Graphic Designer/ Content Manager Holy Publishing Group - Las Vegas, NV August 2012 to September 2016 I helped in the development of a 400+ page book titled "The Holy Spirit." I was responsible for developing, editing and designing the arrangement of the book to the specifications of the writer. I worked in InDesign and Photoshop. After the book was in print I started working on our online presence. I developed a flipbook online and created/managed multiple products online through WordPress and WooCommerce. Web Developer/ Web Designer DNP Studio - Asheville, NC February 2012 to March 2016 Asheville, NC  I have done freelance work with DNP Studio continually for the past 5 years. The bulk of our work together has been me developing customized WordPress templates from their designs and mock ups. Other tasks have been troubleshooting current sites and developing email campaigns while working in multiple platforms. I frequently use Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Constant Contact, WordPress and a custom framework that I have been developing.    Web Developer/ Web Designer  (2/12 - 3/14) Web Developer/ Content Manager/ Marketing/ Graphic Designer Happy Healthy Heart - Johnson City, TN March 2009 to February 2012 Johnson City, TN  With HHH I handled the complete set up and customization of WordPress and social media. I also helped manage content and develop our online presence via email campaigns, social media and YouTube. I frequently used Photoshop, Dreamweaver, WordPress, Constant Contact and Premiere.    Web Developer/ Content Manager/ Marketing/ Graphic Designer  (3/09 - 2/12)    ADI Imaging, Johnson City, TN  Designed and developed a corporate site from the ground up. PHP based site with no CMS. The development of this job led to many future projects as well as an in office position. I also provided technical support to the home office. I managed and maintained multiple aspects of design, development and live support. I frequently used Photoshop, Dreamweaver and Laserfiche. Education High school Science Hill High School - Johnson City, TN October 1997 to June 2001 Skills CMS. (5 years), Dreamweaver (8 years), InDesign (8 years), Photoshop (8 years), Premiere. (6 years), Social Media, Facebook, Hootsuite, Web Design, Email Marketing, Premiere (4 years), Instagram, Twitter, Graphic Design Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages  PHP, HTML, HTML 5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript    Software  Dreamweaver, Photoshop, InDesign, Illustrator, Premiere, Excel    Content Management Systems (CMS)  WordPress, Joomla, Drupal, Forefield, Laserfiche    Additional Skills  Computer Hardware and Software Troubleshooting, Networking, SEO, Microsoft Office, Adobe Acrobat, Social Media, Constant Contact, Microsoft Windows, Music Production, Adobe Audition