Owner/Operator Owner/Operator Erie, CO With over 19 years as a web developer, I have fostered a strong work ethic and intense attention to detail in both design and development. I am experienced in all phases of web production including planning, design, development, testing and maintenance. Designers I have worked with appreciate not only my programming experience, but also my understanding of their vision and the execution of their design. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Owner/Operator Dandelion Web Services, LLC - Erie, CO January 2010 to Present ·      Work with designers, design agencies and directly with clients.  ·      Develop WordPress sites utilizing existing templates, as well as creating unique templates.  ·      Design and program static HTML sites. Freelance Web Developer RameyDesign - Atlanta, GA September 2002 to December 2009 ·      Approached by individual designers and referrals from Melia Design Group, which led to freelance side business   ·      Work included: contracting with the designer, managing timelines, development and testing of site and site maintenance.  ·      Programmed sites for The Mohawk Group, Venadar Consulting and many more. Lead Programmer Melia Design Group - Atlanta, GA September 2000 to May 2005 ·      Began as an intern and was soon hired to full-time programmer.  ·      Promoted to Lead Programmer in 2003.  ·      Responsibilities included: Attended project planning meetings, coordinated with design team and programming intern, tested sites before final delivery.  ·      Programmed sites for National Geographic Magazine, National Geographic Channel, Smithsonian Folkways Music, The High Museum of Art, the Carter Center and many more. Education Associate in Multimedia Design Art Institute of Atlanta - Atlanta, GA November 1999 to December 2000 Associate in Multimedia Design Art Institute of Dallas - Dallas, TX July 1998 to March 1999 Bachelor's in Mathematics University of Wisconsin-Madison - Madison, WI August 1988 to May 1993 Skills WordPress Development (5 years), HTML 5 (10+ years), CSS3 (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), JQuery (8 years), PHP (10+ years)