Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Hybrid Designer & Developer Carrollton, TX Creative Problem Solving Technologist with a career spanning two decades in Advertising, Marketing, Communications and Information Technology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer ZILIS, LLC - Argyle, TX July 2018 to Present Develop website using Wordpress CMS, setup pages using custom theme modules, create custom countdown timer for special events, hosted on home page. Build eCommerce site on Wordpress with WooCommerce as the platform for orders. Help setup development process for identifying the need to have a development, testing and production environment. Identify the need for using subdomains instead of purchasing new domains for setting up new websites. Develop one page splash website(s) for branded events. Owner Brand7 Graphic Design - Carrollton, TX January 2004 to Present Design studio that services the Dallas/Fort Worth area with print, digital and web design/development. Developer & Designer Cole Park Properties - Dallas, TX March 2017 to March 2018 Work with the owner and business managers to update our technology and how to better present our image on the web. Address needs to help expand social media presence by writing blog posts using Facebook and reaching out to other business to help increases visibility. Help update core brand with a cleaner look and feel, develop new brands within the organization; conceptualize, develop and execute deliverables for the web code. Started learning Python and Scrapy framework to help grow the business by data mining and finding new leads. Present ways to help grow the presence of the company by making technological suggestions to the owner including using social media more than it is used now to communicate with its core audience. Front-end Web Developer Susan G. Komen - Dallas, TX August 2015 to March 2017 Collaborate with back-end developers and front-end developers on large projects, as well as content updates through our eCMS (Ektron), work with business clients within our organization to help them determine the best solution for meeting their expectations. Also helping fulfill requests through our ticket system, JIRA either on-time or earlier than expected. Recent projects that were completed, migrating our blog from being Wordpress based which was out of date to moving it within Ektron which can be updated as needed and is consistent with the brand; also updates to data tables for RWD and to enhance the UX. Identify trouble points within the CMS and the website that customers may not understand and need better training. Web Developer Javelin Marketing Group - Irving, TX May 2015 to July 2015 Worked with clients such as AT&T and HYATT for print and digital design work. Tradeshow displays and graphics, web design work including an online Survey used for an email marketing promo for AT&T U-Verse, created animated gifs for use in email campaigns, update header images for internal web sites and working within CMS tool based on RadEditor. Interactive Design Consultant The Creative Group - Dallas, TX March 2015 to March 2015 Create logos, ads and graphics to be used in digital and print advertisements including social media. Work within website content management system (Sitecore) to make content updates to landing pages. Help with the stylization of templates for responsive emails. Graphic Design Consultant The Creative Group - Dallas, TX October 2014 to December 2014 Provide design expertise to help promote new products and services. Design and layout infographics, power point presentations, brochures and other collateral. Worked with the CRM & Marketing Services and Inventory Solutions teams with various projects under tight deadlines. Utilized latest version of Adobe Creative Cloud software to produce print and digital materials. Web Design Consultant BeautiControl - Carrollton, TX September 2012 to August 2014 Help manage work flow for the creation of new website content, including updating existing pages, creating new splash pages, banner ads and other dynamic content within the consultant website and eCommerce portal. Make UI enhancements in web applications and on the websites. Create more efficient web content, maintain web standards for new web. Utilized current trends with rotating banners and modals for displaying audio/video content through jQuery, Javascript and CSS. Leverage my web design and content management experience to create a standard that is consistent for the user. Web Designer H.D. Vest Financial Services - Irving, TX April 2008 to September 2012 Manage content on corporate websites, increase user interface by adding features such as a sitemap to the existing website and decrease the number of clicks to get to the important information, created an HTML Guide for commonly used HTML code when formatting is needed for emails, webpages and other online communications. Utilize rotating banner ads for important promotional placement on the corporate website using jQuery and CSS. Add programming support for other departments by updating the interface within our in-house web apps. Provide ongoing support with print design services such as logos, brochures, direct mail pieces, and other print media. Create splash pages for advertising campaigns which brings in new business for the firm. Maintain our in-house built CMS which we use to post content such as animated banner ads, news items, and important information to our internal website. Web Designer Eagle Oil and Gas - Dallas, TX April 2006 to February 2008 Created interactive maps for exploratory drilling used for online presentations and meetings, and managed the website by making enhancements and finding alternative methods for displaying print media. Make modifications and enhancements to the corporate website as well as content management. Education Associate Degree in Graphic Design and a Minor in Graphic Design Collin County Community College 2004 Skills CMS (10+ years), ASP, ASPX, CSS (10+ years), SCSS (Less than 1 year), Javascript, HTML5 (8 years), JQuery, XHTML, UI, User Experience, Photoshop, UX, Wireframe, Wireframing, Wireframes Links http://brand7.net Assessments Search Engine Optimization — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/2w1zi-j5wlw7hwv Graphic Design — Expert July 2019 Using graphic design techniques and producing visual media to communicate concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/thbtxngx8agfokk8 Intermediate Word Processing with Microsoft Word — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of intermediate Microsoft Word techniques including the use of formatting, Track Changes, and Comments. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/r230pmfxn2nvlvxx Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/tkpjbeszd2bdtyza Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information PROFESSIONAL SKILLS  Adobe Creative Suite all versions: Acrobat, Dreamweaver, Flash, Illustrator, InDesign,  and Photoshop.  Front-end and Back-end Languages: HTML, Bootstrap, XHTML, CSS, SASS/SCSS, Javascript,  JQuery, PHP, ASP, ASPX, XSLT, ASCX, Python and Scrapy.  Font Management software: Extensis Portfolio, Extensis Suitcase, and Fontbook.  O/S and miscellaneous software: Mac X, Microsoft Windows, Office 365, Teams,  OneNote, Sharepoint 2007, Source Control 2005 and 2008, Quark Xpress and  AutoCAD.  Web Applications: JIRA, Wordpress, Ektron CMS, SmartSheets, Box, Dropbox,  FootPrints, ProofHQ, Sitecore CMS, Producteev, and Monday.com.    ABILITIES  Graphic Design, Web Design, Interactive Forms, Animated & Static Banner Ads, UX/UI  Design, A/B testing, Google Analytics, Content Management (CMS), Digital Imaging,  Photography, Branding, Corporate Identity, wireframing, page layout, art direction,  Social Media Advertising, and eCommerce. I have a keen adaptability to changing  work environments, handling multiple projects with tight deadlines and producing  results with insight and impact.