Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - TrapNerd Solutions Old Bridge, NJ I am an innovative web designer with a background in multimedia and graphic design and professional experience in web development, UX/UI, E-commerce, B2B, interactive design, digital marketing, and corporate rebranding.    As a highly organized, self-starter, I am passionate about my work. I'm constantly looking to learn the latest web technologies and stretch my abilities.     Feel free to have a look at my portfolio at https://lthompson1206.github.io/Responsive-Portfolio/ and don't hesitate to contact me if you think I can be of service to you.    Professional Summary:  • Utilized my computer science knowledge for tech support at Altice in 2017  • Received Employee performance Award at Altice: Excellent customer service by going above & beyond   • Collaborated in redesigning and developing Quality Assurance teams in multiple buildings  • Contributed to maintaining a 94% Quality rating for the year of 2013 at Nemak AL  • Created and designed better standards of engine mold quality and methods of inventory control  • Revamped the Quality checkpoints to ensure customer-supplier relations during mass production  • Designed a better Quality control method with team members to ensure car parts avoiding damage.   • Contributed to the 5 star quality review at SMART AL in 2008  • Client logic Employee Performance Award: in December 2004 for customer service and tech support  • Recognized for collaborating with team leader to resolve extensive issues  • Utilized Tech support savvy to repair Dell's Laptops and computer hardware Work Experience Web Developer TrapNerd Solutions 2017 to Present Area  Dynamic, self-motivated full-stack developer with previous experience in technical project  management. Successful at developing process improvements, analyzing technical needs and team  management. Outstanding leadership and interpersonal communication skills.    Key Accomplishments:  ? Experience with: JavaScript, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, Materialize, jQuery, Unix Shell, Git, Node, Express, MySQL, MongoDB, PHP, yii, and React. Technical Support Altice - Newark, NJ 2016 to 2017 Assisted customer with any technical issues with their internet, devices, and email accounts. I  utilized my Information technology skills to resolve technical issues with critical thinking. Also  applied ethics, sociology, and speech to effectively communicate empathy while giving great  customer service I received from South University.  Key Accomplishments:    ? Awarded Employee of the month 2x: Excellent customer service and technical support Nemak AL/SMART AL - Montgomery, AL 2007 to 2015 Assured Customer (the manufacturer) with the 95% Quality of inspected car parts and engine  molds. I utilized my Welding and Q.A. skills to contain and resolve any quality issues on the fly.  Key Accomplishments:    ? Collaborated with Q&A staff to earn the company a 5-star Quality rating Education Certification Rutgers University - Jersey City, NJ Certification South University Skills JAVASCRIPT, Wordpress, Front End, HTML5, Angular Links https://github.com/lthompson1206 https://lthompson1206.github.io/Responsive-Portfolio/ Certifications/Licenses Web Developer Present A Web Developer must have experience in the planning and the delivery of web applications across multiple platforms. A typical Web Developer job description should cover:  • Writing efficient code  • Creating websites/a website using standard HTML/CSS practices  • Working closely with web designers and programmers to produce the website  • Constant communication with other colleagues in the business to develop and deploy their content – and ensuring there is a clear establishment of what can be created within what timeframe  • Researching different software programs, maintaining software documentation  • Implementing contingency plans in case the website goes down  • Maintaining and expanding/enhancing the website once built  • Managing a team might also be part of the job role Assessments Critical Thinking — Familiar May 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/njxedwheo6subqjx Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages: Javascript  Applications: 3-5 applications