UI Engineer/ Web Designer UI Engineer/<span class="hl">Web</span> Designer UI Engineer/ Web Designer - Goldschmitt and Associates LLC Boerne, TX Work Experience UI Engineer/ Web Designer Goldschmitt and Associates LLC January 2018 to Present Write and design technical specifications along with documentation for websites and applications. Perform with creative teams to validate designs with respect to technically feasibility as per allotted time frame. Collaborate with product management and engineering to define and implement innovative solutions for the product  direction, visuals and experience executing all visual design stages from concept to final hand-off to engineering.  Conceptualize original ideas that bring simplicity and user friendliness to complex design roadblocks. Establish and promote design guidelines, best practices and standards. Web and Graphic Designer Abstract Alley1 December 2003 to Present December 2003 - Present    Assist diverse companies with a myriad of projects, such as designing logos, magazine covers, advertisement  displays, business cards, brochures, multimedia and webpage design using HTML 5, Java Script menu, JQuery  Mobile and CSS Style Sheet while utilizing 508 compliant. Web and Graphic Designer December 2003 to Present Assist diverse companies with a myriad of projects, such as designing logos, magazine covers, advertisement  displays, business cards, brochures, multimedia and webpage design using HTML 5, Java Script menu, JQuery  Mobile and CSS Style Sheet while utilizing 508 compliant. Web Content Developer Midtown Group/Department of Labor December 2015 to December 2016 Create, develop and manage HTML 5 code, CSS3, Bootstrap responsive content for company website. Assisted  team members with web projects for association's departments and affiliations with agencies. Maintained web  content management with excellent look and feel, utilizing the 508 compliant. Worked closely with cross- department in maintaining web content within the agencies to maintain and develop the master text calendar for  government website. Copy, edit and proofread all HTML and CSS code and web content to keep up with recent  emerging web technology through relevant blogs, infographics, E-forms and events as well as track and report site  metrics. Work collaboratively, with internal team members, clients and vendors within the agency.    Abstract Alley1 (Freelance) Gap Note: I have been freelancing and staying up to date with trendy graphic/ web design. Web Content Specialist America Immigration Lawyer Association August 2013 to November 2013 Created, developed and managed HTML 5 code and CSS content for company website using the 508 compliant  and web content management. Assisted staff with web projects for association's departments. Maintained an excellent look and feel throughout most web properties. Worked closely with cross-department group to maintain  and develop the master text calendar for company website. Copyedit and proofread all HTML code web text and design graphics. Keep up with recent emerging web technology through relevant blogs, and events. Tracked and  reported site metrics using web content management. Work collaboratively, with internal team members, clients and vendors.  Abstract Alley1 (Freelance) Gap Note: I have been freelancing and staying up to date with trendy graphic/ web design. Web Graphic Designer Community Support Association December 2010 to June 2012 Designed PowerPoint slides, maintained web content management website on a timely basis inside internal and external website. Worked with CSA Managers, event coordinator and community members to create and distribute  flyers, advertising, and upcoming events for the American community in Frankfurt, Germany. Maintained company  website, utilizing 508 compliant along with content management within the HTML code and CSS style sheet forms.    Abstract Alley1 (Freelance) Gap Note: I have been freelancing and staying up to date with trendy graphic/ web design. Web Graphic Designer Naval Research Laboratory Federal Credit Union February 2006 to June 2007 Using the 508 compliant, HTML code and CSS was prepared, updated and maintained of the credit union's  internal and external websites, ATM promotional screens and video posters, while working closely with the Marketing department. Coordinated notification of rate changes and other product updates. Coordinate and  design E-Updates, E-Statements and other forms of mass electronic communication to Credit Union members and staff. Managed Web Support tickets accurately, timely and with appropriate documentation. Provided desktop  publishing and in-house graphic design support for special marketing projects.    Abstract Alley1 (Freelance) Gap Note: have been freelancing and staying up to date with trendy graphic/ web design. Education Bachelors in Visual Communication and Fine Arts in Visual Communication and Fine Arts American InterContinental University - Chicago, IL February 2012 to February 2015 Johns Hopkins University Computer Career Center - Columbia, MD Links http://www.abstractalley1.com