Substitute Teacher K-12 Substitute Teacher K-12 Hamilton, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Substitute Teacher K-12 Hamilton Township School District 2017 to Present I don't really want to go into specifics, but I have come to realize that this is a very important and impactful job (at least at the school I work at...I only really work at one school). The kids are challenging, but they are improving so much. I push them to work really hard and to behave really well, and even though they often can get frustrated by this, it's really cool to see how much they've grown. I am very grateful to have had this experience. I have learned so much, and I hope the kids have been able to learn from me as well. Web/Graphic Designer Internship Chetney Cakes - Work at Home November 2015 to January 2016 Responsibilities   Even though, this is technically just an internship, I am responsible for the graphic design, web design, and social media of Chetney’s Cakes. In terms, of the web design, I am tasked with the retooling of the company website.    Accomplishments   I think the major impact I have had is that I have helped better fulfill the vision of the owner. I have done graphic design work in getting the materials ready that are necessary for the retooling of the current website. The owner had all of these pictures of these custom cakes that she had created, but they didn't have the background she desired. She dreamed of her pictures having white backgrounds. So, I worked in Photoshop to fulfill her wish with all her photos, which was quite the task because the original backgrounds of these photos were not easy to work with and there were so many of them.     Even though the work was tedious, it is work that I am glad to have done because I couldn't have asked for a kinder person to work for. I have added these new elements to the website. Moreover, in terms of the social media, I noticed some seemingly minute problems that I thought could make a big difference if remedied. For instance, on my client’s social media pages, she would post links to her images as opposed to having the images actually appear on the social media site. It may not seem like a big deal, but I know as a user of social media, many users may find this to be annoying and inconvenient. Alleviating a small inconvenience can make a big difference to user experience. I told my client this and she immediately made the corrections.    Furthermore, on the website, my client had a gallery of pictures. Immediately, I noticed that in one of her pictures, a celebrity, Zendaya was eating one of her cakes while giving thumbs up. It was extremely surprising and so interesting—I wanted to learn more, but there weren’t any captions. This was not the only picture with a celebrity in it either. I told her that she definitely should have some sort of caption because people will want to know more about these pictures. She agrees and that’s what we are currently working on—she desires a testimonial page.    Skills Used   So far I have used graphic design, web design, and social media skills.    Update: This is as far as we got on the project. Web Designer/ Developer Images Hair Design - Dayton, NJ January 2015 to May 2015 Responsibilities   My group members and I created a website for Images Hair Design. We were responsible for creating a lot of the content from scratch. Personally, I was responsible for a lot of the coding as well as the testing of the website and photo editing. Moreover, I was one of the people sent over to interview the client to see what her vision for the website was.     Accomplishments   I think that we did a great service for the company. They actually had a live website before our involvement that was one of the worst websites I had ever seen. Internet presence is a real aspect businesses have to consider these days, and I think we helped place them in better footing.     Skills Used   Obviously, I had to use web and graphic design skills. More importantly, working in a group, I had to use people skills. I remember there was a phone malfunction that created miscommunication between another group member and I, which caused some initial tension. She was really mad at me, cursing me out in front of a bunch of people. I didn't understand what was going on. I kept my cool and let her vent out her frustrations. Thankfully, we talked through it and figured out that neither of us was at fault, and our teamwork and friendship really grew in that moment.     We are still friends to this day—a fact that I look back on with great satisfaction because it could have ended up a lot differently. Moreover, we had a group member who at first was not fulfilling her obligations. In turn, the same group member that had been mad at me was furious and things could have gotten ugly. I decided to play peace maker and reel the, at first, uncooperative member back into the fold by having her work together with me. She was productive from then on out and the group got along really well. Education Bachelor's in Web Design Rider University - Lawrenceville, NJ 2013 to 2015 Skills Behance, Blogger, Dreamweaver, Facebook, Final Cut Pro, Flickr, Google Docs, Illustrator, Indesign, Linkedin, Maya, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Powerpoint, Microsoft Access, Microsoft Word, Photoshop, Podcasting, Tumblr, Twitter, Wordpress, Youtube, Movie Maker, Instagram, Google+, Wix, Ajax, Javascript, JQuery, SQL, PHP, Bootstrap Links http://www.imageshairdesign.net/ https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/literary-review-key-factors-building-successful-website-imran-jemal Awards Department of Communication and Journalism Award 2015-05 Admitted into Lambda Pi Eta 2015-05 Graduated Rider Summa Cum Laude 2015-05 Admitted into Honors Society 2013-05 Edward J.Bloustein Distinguished Scholar 2008-06 National Honors Society 2007-06 Rutgers University James Dickson Carr Scholarship 2008-06 Perfect Attendance Award 2006-06 Perfect Attendance Award 2005-06 National Achievement Scholarship 2008-06 UMBC Premier Scholar Award 2008-06 World Language Society Award 2007-06 World Language Society Award 2006-06 NJ Stars Award 2008-06 PTK Award 2013-06 Top Transfer Scholarship to Rider University 2013-05 Additional Information I have a portfolio and a more comprehensive resume. I would have just sent you those in the first place, but the Indeed website really limits what I can present. If you would like to see those documents, email me at jemali504@gmail.com.