System Developer System <span class="hl">Developer</span> System Developer Overland Park, KS • Create and edit well documented applications to support growing businesses  • Proficient in languages such as C#, ASP.NET & Java Script  • Expertise in writing business solutions using Object-Oriented Concepts with .NET Framework  • Extensive Design and Programming experience in C#, ASP.NET 4.5/5.0 MVC, Entity Framework, WCF, Web Services, Web API, JavaScript, JSON, Design Patterns, ADO.NET, XML, XSLT, HTML 5.0, CSS3, JQuery, ASP, SQL Server and Oracle.  • T-SQL: Stored procedures, Functions, Views, Relations, Tables and Triggers  • Extensive experience in working with ASP.NET Web Forms, User Controls, Master Page, various types of Data Bound Controls and AJAX Extension  • Working experience with HTML, CSS3, JQuery, Bootstrap and Angular 2.0  • Proficiency in MVC, MVP and MVVM patterns  • Good Working Experience in MVC, MVW and Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), Web API, WCF and Web Services  • Current enterprise-class applications experience with Microsoft platforms  • Can work in all phases of the software development life cycles  • Communicate effectively with end users associated with assigned projects  • Collaborate with other developers and work independently on projects  • Support and help evolve all application standards and development methodologies Work Experience System Developer Great Plains Laboratory - Lenexa, KS August 2017 to April 2019 Laboratory Information System  This is home grown lab information management system. When the specimen comes in to the lab details are captured in to the main repository using various techniques like barcode technology and converting excel data in to the MS SQL database. Various checks are done before concluding al information is readily available for further processing. A tracking module is capturing comments and date stamp at different points. Finally lab results entered into system. The whole system is role based and only the relevant people can see what they can see. Approvals are done by managers only.  Responsibilities:  • Design of windows forms from beginning  • Development of forms using windows forms  • MS SQL server tables design  • Written code behind using C#  • Written T-SQL for supporting logics for the forms  • Designed with Domain based 3 tiered system  • Used Web API for address processing  • Designed logic and written code for complex lab information processing.  • Designed local windows login and user roles and responsibility    Environment: C# 2017, Windows Forms, SQL Server 2008, Web API, T-SQL, stored procedure and views  Clinician Portal system  The lab issues test results in pdf format. The results are uploaded to results folder and the clients can view the results online as soon as it is available. For this purpose a separate web portal is developed and published to https site. Clients are given user id and password to logon to the web site. Results can be downloaded from client sites using any standard browsers. Once downloaded the results are marked as downloaded using a separate flag. The new results can be viewed as separate option.  Responsibilities:  • Design of web site from beginning  • Development of web pages using web forms  • Written code behind using C#  • Designed logic and written code for zipping of several files into one compressed file.  • Designed login and user roles and responsibility    Environment: C# 2017, Web Pages, SQL Server 2008, HTML, CSS 3, Bootstrap 4, JavaScript & JQuery. C# Developer Federal Reserve Bank - Kansas City, MO January 2017 to July 2017 Bank Examination & Supervisory System  The bank examination portal helps the examiners to identity safe, sound and accessible financial system. Several documents are created to by the system to view and print the financial and other metrics of the banks. Web pages are used to track the workflow of the examination process and approvals.  Responsibilities:  • Development of web pages using MVC pattern  • Development of word report documents  • Written code for integrated and unit testing  • Reviewed code and deployed to different environments  • Supporting of SQA tests and worked with Business Analysts to User acceptance.    Environment: C# 2015, MVC 4, SQL Server 2008, Knockout JS, Angular 2.0, HTML, CSS, JavaScript & JQuery. Sr. Web Developer American Century Investments - Kansas City, MO May 2015 to November 2016 Technical Access Report Management System  This is an intranet based portal system where roles and custodians are assigned to different resources by the admin group. Each Employee can be assigned to maintain different level of access to the resources. Access level to different employees can be compared by comparison report. Reports can be exported to excel sheets as required. Change management policies can be maintained using the system.  Responsibilities:  • Design and development of base modules  • Created high level tabs in the main page  • Created various reports  • Tested the base system  • Created deployment scripts to deploy to servers.    Environment: C#, SQL Server 2008 & DB2. Sr. Web Developer Quest Diagnostics - Lenexa, KS March 2014 to February 2015 Employer Solutions Portal  This is an integrated web portal where employers can order drug tests before employees join the work force. Several panels of tests can be ordered for different accounts within the organization. Templates can be created for quick orders and the results of the tests can be viewed by authorized personal. Management reports can be viewed for different group levels.  Responsibilities:  • Development and coding various modules  • Written model view controllers in coding  • Written web services to integrate various systems  • Written multi-threading code to call web services using Google Maps API  • Created deployment code for deploying the project to various environments  • Unit testing and crated acceptance criteria    Environment: C#, SQL Server 2008, MVC 3, WCF, JQuery & TFS. CRM Developer CRM Innovation - Overland Park, KS July 2013 to December 2013 Event to CRM Integration System  This is integration system of events between Dynamics CRM and an Event management system application which exchanges the events and related entities. Information like registrants orders and check-in information are extracted from Eventbrite to CRM in a timely manner. Event information like venue, date and time, number of seats available are pushed from CRM to Eventbrite on request.  Responsibilities:  • Design & development system  • Written update data to the CRM database using web services  • Written multi-threading code for accessing CRM interface  • Written plugin code using c#.net.  • Installing CRM application to various clients online and on premise  • Unit testing before publishing new solutions    Environment: C#.NET 2012, VS 2012, Microsoft Dynamics CRM 2011, WCF, JavaScript, Eventbrite API & Plugins C# Developer Actuarial Resources Corporation - Overland Park, KS January 2013 to May 2013 ARCVAL Financial System  ARCVAL is a comprehensive, integrated system for valuation, financial reporting, financial forecasting, experience analysis and earnings analysis of universal life, traditional life, annuity, health and structured settlement business. The speed of the calculations and the ease of use of the integrated user interface is a direct result of the technology chosen for each facet of our software operations.    Responsibilities:  • Design & Development using Model-View-Presenter architecture  • mapping the database using Fluent n-Hibernate  • Written multi-threading code to access data and calculations  • Coding the screen in C#  • Unit testing the model and presenter classes.    Environment: C# 2010, SQL Server 2008, N-Hibernate, MVP pattern, TFS, Dev Express & Win Forms. Sr. SQL Developer Heartland Services - Leawood, KS May 2012 to December 2012 Asset & Inventory Management System  This system is used for tracking assets and inventory of servicing of computer laptops and projectors. The servicing can be in warranty and out of warranty. Problems reported are recorded in the call center and charges are calculated for the defective parts. The system also tracks of shipping and invoicing to the customers.    Responsibilities:  • Re-design of existing SQL Server database  • Created data migration path for migrating data  • Written stored procedures for complex business needs  • Added work flow rule engine modules    Environment: C# 2010, ASP.NET, SQL Server 2008, WCF, WF & WPF VB.Net Developer CSC - Overland Park, KS January 2012 to April 2012 Nutrition Management System  This system is to monitor the health status of women, infant and children of different states through volunteered health organizations. Data is collected through visiting medical staffs and entered into the central server and updated periodically. Different reports and statistics are generated from the central server every month and send to the health organizations.    Responsibilities:  • Design and development of error handling modules  • Written extra modules for different projects for calling error handler  • Tested the modules for various error handling situations    Environment: VB.Net 2010, SQL Server 2008 & Web services VB.Net Developer VentureUS Enterprises - Kansas City, KS January 2011 to December 2011 Enrollment Management System  Enrollment system is the system used by insurance broker agents to enroll employees to different types of dental, vision and life insurances of different carriers. Takes input as employee information, date of birth, etc. System calculates monthly premium from effective date. Spouse and children rates are calculated separately.    Responsibilities:  • Design of the new system  • Tables, stored procedures and views are created  • Design of web pages using asp.net  • Written VB code to main pages and enrollment pages, etc.    Environment: VB.Net 2010, ASP.NET, AJAX, JavaScript & SQL Server 2008. VB. Net Developer FHL Bank of Topeka - Topeka, KS October 2010 to December 2010 Mortgage Lending System  Integrated Mortgage Lending System is used to monitor member banks and other credit members. Lending systems gives several modules to assist lending process for the lending analysts.    Responsibilities:  • Design and development of new screens, reports and extracts.  • Integrated the new developed module with existing core banking system  • Worked in Agile method of design and developing  • Tested the developed system    Environment: ASP.NET 2005, VB.NET & SQL Server 2008 C# Developer Ericsson - Overland Park, KS January 2010 to September 2010 Trouble Management System  Trouble management system is used to create tickets for the phone line troubles and used to create work orders based on the priority list. The details are sent over to another dispatch system through web services. The data is sent through ANSI TML standards and acknowledgment is received on the other side. Based on fault codes received certain actions are taken to complete the process on the work force management system.    Responsibilities:  • Written Code for Web Services connecting trouble system and work force management system  • Assignment of work force based on the trouble code  • Fault code processing and management on the XML files  • Exception handling on message queue system  • Passing the message to the mainframe queue    Environment: ASP.NET 2008, C#, Web Services, Oracle 10g, PL/SQL. VB.Net Developer ASSOCIATES SOLUTIONS - Lenexa, KS January 2009 to December 2009 Dynamics GP  This is an ERP product which gives user to keep account information, Tax filing information and Employee payroll information. ECONNECT gives the facility to download data from other applications to and from this GP system.    Responsibilities:  • Installing GP system for clients  • Customization of GP screens  • Integrating GP system with external system  • written web services to integrate complex systems  • written custom reports    Environment: ASP.NET 2008, VB.NET, C# & SQL Server 2008. C# Developer ADP - Madison, WI July 2008 to December 2008 Mail Log Poller  Customer Relation management system needed to maintain the returned emails and to handle hard bound, soft bound emails and to notify the CRM for all the unsubscribe request from customers in a timely manner. The system tracks all the aggregate logs from the strong mail server and processes all the logs. Keeps a local copy of all the aggregate logs in the local server and processes the request for opt-out and purge emails. Action taken for each log is maintained and email spam complaint is met and the customer is assured that email is sent again by the CRM.    Responsibilities:  • Design and development of .net application  • Interacting with business analyst and getting the process flow  • Writing console application to run in batch mode  • setting up the automatic SQL job for running for multiple databases    Environment: C# & MS SQL Server 2005 VB Developer Wal-Mart - Bentonville, AR January 2008 to June 2008 Invoice Upload Management System  Vendor invoices are entered into text files using data entry screens and uploaded to UNIX server in batches. Finally all the batches are periodically uploaded to host system to further processing for validations. All the error messages are sent back to the user for final modifications. A batch can be re-submitted using the same batch. If all the entries are correct the invoice amount will be sent to check writing module.    Responsibilities:  • Modified existing modules to add new countries to the existing system  • Modified the data entry screens for validations and saving  • Modified UNIX shell scripts    Environment: VB6 & SQL Server 2005 VB Developer Metropolitan District - St. Louis, MO May 2007 to December 2007 Plan Review Escrow Construction Permit Tracking System  The Plan Review Construction Permit Tracking System (PRECPTS) is a custom developed application designed to aid employees of the Metropolitan St. Louis District with the management and tracking of permitted projects. This customized application consists of 114 screens, 103 form letters, 133 standard reports and 90 Oracle database tables. The PRECPTS application supports a number of functions within MSD that include Plan Review and Setup, Permit Issuance, Fee Recording and Collection, Escrow, Construction Inspection, Maintenance, Right of Way, Central Files and Accounting.    Lien Tracking System  Consumer information stored in database and legal letters are generated upon default and mailing list generated. Default amount attached to the property and is liable to the future buyer of the property. A central database is made available and will have all the updated information on this.    Responsibilities:  • Design and development of the system  • Designed form letters to the end user  • Designed fee modules to accommodate revised fees  • Added Mailing database modules  • Tested the system and user acceptance    Environment: VB6 & Oracle 10 VB Developer Bed Bath & Beyond Union November 2006 to April 2007 Inventory forecasting system    This is a forecasting system used to predict inventory levels required for each months. Inventory level is kept to meet the requirements in the warehouse. A new user interface is created for forecasting inventory for the next few months.    Responsibilities:  • Written code to forecasting the inventory  • Involved in maintaining existing modules  • Written PL/SQL statements for stored procedures  • Tested the system with different test data    Environment: VB6, Oracle 10g & PL/SQL VB Developer Sprint Corp - Overland Park, KS January 2006 to October 2006 International Settlements Application  This is an international settlement system for Sprint to settle with international Carriers. Inbound and Outbound traffic are measured and stored in tables. The latest rates are downloaded from RMS feeding system and applied to the traffic. The fee is again uploaded into the mainframe system for calculations. Finally the fee details are calculated and several reports are written to maintain the monthly settlement details for different carriers and faxed to them in a timely fashion. Separate modules written to care of sending FAX to international carriers automatically. The invoices are sent by FAX every month to almost 256 carrier partners all over the world.    Responsibilities:  • Written code to send invoices by FAX Server  • Involved in maintaining existing modules  • Created several additional crystal reports for managing the invoices and Settlements  • Tested the system with the group of users to ensure that all the project files are posted into the output files.    Environment: VB6, Oracle 10g, PL/SQL, Control-M & Crystal Reports 10. VB Developer Schering Plough - Cranford, NJ February 2005 to December 2005 Project Management System  This system extracts information from the MS Project files into the database system. Validations are made before posting the data into the system for duplications. Time stamps are made and retained within the system. These reports are useful for the upper management to take timely decisions on the ongoing projects on different sites.    Responsibilities:  • Rewritten the Existing System completely  • Created several additional reports for managing the project information  • Tested the system with the group of users to ensure functionality    Environment: VB6, SQL Server 2000, MS Project 10. Sr. VB Developer Citigroup - Englewood Cliffs, NJ May 2004 to December 2004 Recon Plus  Recon Plus application is the reconciliation of bank accounts with Federal accounts. Both we side and they side accounts are imported using 're collector' module and lookup tables are created for class codes and TRANSACTION codes description. Company, Account Pools, Accounts, Departments, Classes and Starting balances are setup using 'Recon module'. Individual security privileges are created using 'Admin module'. Every day matching process is activated for different account pools and closing balance report is taken. Pre-processing of import files is done using customized code for summarizing the items and balances.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the design of the reconciliation system  • Written Code to preprocess the correspondent banks data  • Configured CHECK-FREE's RECONPLUS application to accommodate different data  • Developed several reports for end user  • Tested the system for unit testing  • Helped in User acceptance testing    Environment: VB6, Oracle 9i, PL/SQL & Crystal Reports 11 PPL Corp - Allentown, PA September 2003 to April 2004 QRISK Reports  Financial reports based on QRISK software are designed and developed. Daily risk reports, variance report, credit limit for counter party report, Daily market to market report, FOREX report, Consolidated Debt report, Maturity Schedule reports & Swap Reports are developed.    Responsibility  • Interact with end user to finalize report specifications  • Written PL/SQL functions and packages to prepare summary and detail information  • Design and development of Crystal Reports    Environment: Crystal Reports 9, PL/SQL & Oracle 8i VB/SQL Developer WKG Inc - New York, NY December 2002 to August 2003 Wonder Ware  This is a query based system internal search engine which gives information to the customer support team for calculating the insurance amount, maturity date, etc., while talking to the customers. License Tracking System Agent information is stored in the database server and code written for License details, Expiry date, Credits required and renewal procedure, etc.    Responsibilities  • Design, develop and implementation of the application  • Developed application using 3 tier architecture  • Several stored procedures written for implementing the business layer    Environment: VB6, COM, VBA, SQL Server 2000. VB Developer Cram Group - New York, NY February 2002 to November 2002 Security Application  This is a security application used to give access to different projects to the user who is having necessary rights. This product also gives project administrators a way to control the general users working in different projects in an efficient and easy way.    Project Responsibilities:  • Relational Database Design and Implementation  • Design and development of front end screens  • Implementation & Maintenance    Environment: VB6, SQL Server 2000. Vb Developer Impath Inc - New York, NY June 2000 to January 2002 Impulse Warehousing System  Parts of tissues are collected from patients from different collection centers and received in the main office.  Initially they are put in the inventory and box, slots are stored in the system. These tissues are sent for diagnosis and can be sold with diagnosed information for different institutions.    Project Responsibilities  • Front End Screen development  • System design & development  • Functions, procedures developed and installed as package  • Client interaction for gathering information  • Report Writing    Environment: VB6, Oracle 8.1 & Crystal Reports VB Developer One World, Inc - New York, NY January 2000 to May 2000 Clinical System  System is used for medical representatives to promote the pharmacy products to different doctors and clinics. Email support is given for broad casting the product information to the industry. Based on the feedback received from doctors representatives have been sent for further follow ups.    Project Responsibilities  • Written code for new modules  • System design & development  • Testing    Environment: VB6 & SQL Server 6/7. Education Post Graduate Diploma in Operations Research in Operations Research Anna University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering Madurai Kamaraj University - Madurai, Tamil Nadu Skills Sql server, Sql server 2008, Oracle, Sql, .net, C#, Html, Software development, Vb.net, Vb6, Xml, Asp, Asp.net, Mvc, Mvp, Mvvm, Soap, Sql server reporting services, Team foundation server, Life cycle, Javascript, Jquery Additional Information Computer Experience    Software development with over 20+ years of experience in design, development, testing and maintenance of software applications. Well conversant with all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Has very good experience of various software tools like Vb.net, VB6, C#, SQL Server, Work Flow & Windows communication foundation.    Technical Skill    • Languages: ASP.NET, VB.Net, C#  • Web: HTML, XML, WSDL, SOAP  • .NET .Net Framework 4  • RDBMS: SQL Server 2008, 2012 & Oracle  • OS: XP, Windows 7 & Windows 8  • Architectural patterns: MVC, MVP & MVVM  • Reports: SQL Server Reporting Services  • Source Control: Team Foundation Server (TFS) & Sub Version