Systems Integrator Systems Integrator Ranger, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Integrator Batchelor & Kimball - Conyers, GA November 2016 to Present Started out as a service technician for JCI Metasys equipment and Facility Explorer equipment. I have since transitioned into one of the primary programmers and system designers for their larger projects.    Highlights:  • Co-lead on Northside Hospital's nine-floor patient bed expansion. Tied the new controllers/supervisory devices into the existing network.  • Lead programmer on the new Piedmont Hospital 14-story expansion. Programmed 30 AHU controllers, 10 NAE supervisory devices, and over 600 VAV controllers. Programmed and commissioned the entire central plant.  • Created outside-the-box solutions for various client requests using Python, HTML, and SQL which allowed for projects that would not normally work with the given BAS software. Plant Operator Batchelor & Kimball - Conyers, GA November 2009 to November 2016 Worked as a plant operator at a large datacenter.    Interfaced daily with:  • Allen Bradley PLC controls  • Alerton BAS system Web/Database Developer Freelance/Self employed - Plainville, GA February 2001 to November 2009 Developed websites and databases and set up servers and networks necessary for hosting.    Languages and Software used:  • LAMP stack  • Windows IIS and MSSQL  • PHP, Javascript, HTML, CSS, Python Education Studied Industrial Engineering Kennesaw State University - Kennesaw, GA March 2013 to May 2014 Certifications/Licenses Niagara N4 certitified Present Additional Information Skills:    • Works well either in a team or as a solo technician/programmer  • Can easily interface with clients/owners  • Well-versed in client training instruction and course creation  • Understanding of networks including Ethernet, N2, Bacnet (IP and MSTP)  • Background in troubleshooting Bacnet/MSTP, Bacnet/IP, and Ethernet networks  • Working knowledge of Python, HTML 5, Javascript, SQL  • Have held MSCE, CCNA, CCNP certifications  • Basic knowledge of AUTOCAD  • Working Knowledge of Visio, Excel, Access