Web Developer/Graphic Designer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Graphic Designer Web Designer and Graphic Designer Portland, OR Web Developer specializing in various technologies and web languages, graphic design software, digital printing, managerial positions, time management and customer service. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer/Graphic Designer Freelance/Self employed - Portland, OR July 2014 to Present • Develop and maintain existing client CMS website features and re-code enhancements.   • Involved in writing new codes for existing websites.  • Hand coding websites from scratch.  • CMS WordPress, Shopify, Dreamweaver, Wix.  • Familiarity with WordPress plugins using PHP.   • Validate HTML5 and CSS3.  • Handled database interaction writing PHP MySQL.   • Development experience using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap.  • Strong knowledge of client-side development and server-side development.  • Strong understanding of usability testing in all browsers.  • Strong knowledge of basic web standards and color standards.  • Strong knowledge of responsive design (mobile, tablet, desktop).  • Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign and animation.  • Strong knowledge of graphic design standards (color theory, typography, layout, composition).  • Understanding of SEO.  • Social Media Marketing.  • Photography.  • Content writing.  • Blogs.  • Logo.  • Brochures.  • Google Analytics.  • Google AdWords  • Search Console. Website Administrator Live Laugh Love Art - Portland, OR April 2019 to June 2019 • Develop and maintain existing client CMS website features and re-code enhancements.   • Involved in writing new codes for existing websites.  • CMS WordPress.  • Created WordPress templates.   • Created WordPress plugins.  • Created WordPress Popup's, Contact Forms, Email List Building, Spinning Wheel Coupon generator.  • Validate HTML5 and CSS3.  • Handled database interaction writing PHP MySQL.   • Development experience using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap.  • Strong knowledge of client-side development and server-side development.  • Strong understanding of usability testing in all browsers.  • Strong knowledge of basic web standards and color standards.  • Strong knowledge of responsive design (mobile, tablet, desktop).  • Strong understanding of graphic design standards (color theory, typography, layout, composition).  • Proficient in Adobe PhotoShop, Illustrator, InDesign and Animation.   • Strong understanding of SEO.  • Photography.  • Editing/Content Writing.   • Google Analytics.  • Google AdWords.  • Search Console. Web Developer/Graphic Designer EPD - Portland, OR April 2018 to July 2018 • Gather business requirements, produce detailed and accurate documentation relating to assigned tasks.  • Develop and maintain existing client CMS website features and re-code enhancements. Involved in writing new codes for existing websites (HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery and JavaScript) to create standard dynamic web pages using responsive design.  • Developed, Tested and Deployed application in Xampp.  • Debugging and troubleshooting any technical issues while implementing the applications.  • Create reusable components that can be accessed on any platform and monitor the feedback generated from Web users.  • Validate HTML5 and CSS3.  • GIT for code management.  • Handled database interaction writing PHP MySQL.  • Development experience using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap.  • Some familiarity with Ajax handling of both HTML and JSON responses.  • Some familiarity with AngularJS.  • Experience with server-side CSS pre-processing, such as LESS, SCSS and SASS.  • cPanel, FTP.  • Strong knowledge of client side development and server side development.  • Strong understanding of usability testing in all browsers.  • Strong knowledge of basic web standards and color standards.  • Strong knowledge of responsive design (mobile, tablet, desktop).  • Strong understanding of time management.  • Service focused.  • Strong understanding of UX/UI.  • Strong understanding of SEO.  • Experience with Adobe CS products like, Photoshop, InDesign, Illustrator and Animation.  • Strong experience with MS Excel, MS Word and MS PowerPoint.  • Excellent communicator.  • Actively sought tough projects to programming and service skills.  • Joined client meetings to learn about development and client scope.  • Collaborated with designers to create clean interfaces and simple intuitive interactions and experiences.    Environment: In house, Responsive design, HTML5, CSS3, LESS, SASS and SCSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, PHP, MySQL, UX/UI, SEO, time management. Supervisor/Machine Operator Hunter Douglas - Portland, OR September 2010 to January 2013 • Expert knowledge of statistical methods, quality management techniques and applications to a distribution, manufacturing and marketing organization.  • Strong written and oral communication skills.  • Passionate about driving engagement of others through learning and teaching.  • Excellent accountability, high attention to detail, and strong organizational skills.  • A solid knowledge of windows based office software.  • Ability to analyze cause and effect relationships in a problem and use problem analysis to develop resolution alternatives.  • Ability to develop new programs and/or change programs to meet changing trends and needs.    Environment: Supervising employees and custom window shades. Produce Clerk Fred Meyer - Portland, OR October 2007 to September 2010 • Provided premier customer service, including greeting them and responding to questions  • Cleaned and trimmed product.  • Filled and rotated produce cases and dry tables.  • Unloaded product from trucks.  • Dynamically sold products by providing customers with information needed to make product- related decisions.  • Broke down pallets, separated produce for sales floor, cooler and/or back room prep area.  • Processed and/or wrapping produce items prior to filling cases and dry tables.  • Verified ads, hung current sale signs, and removing out-of-date sale signs.  • Performed routine price changes on products.  • Processed "Value Added Items" for Produce Specialty section.  • Operated pallet jack, scissor lift, baler, compactor and scrub machine.  • Assisted in other duties, as assigned.  • Awarded for great customer service.    Environment: Retail environment with customer service first, then product placement. Education Associates in Website Development and Design Portland Community College - Portland, OR Associate in General Studies Portland Community College - Portland, OR Skills ADOBE CS (3 years), ANIMATION (3 years), BOOTSTRAP (3 years), CMS (3 years), Front End, Javascript, CSS3, Front-End Certifications/Licenses Web Assistant I Web Assistant II One Year Website Development and Design Additional Information SKILLSET    Languages: JavaScript, JQuery, PHP, Ajax-HTML/JSON.  Web Technologies: HTML5, XHTML, CSS3.  CSS Preprocessors: LESS, SASS, SCSS.  Web/App Servers: Xampp.  Databases: MySQL.  Frameworks: Bootstrap, Angular JS.  Optimizer: Search Engine Optimization.  User Experience  Design: Competitor Analysis, Customer Analysis, Product Structure/Strategy, Content Development  Wireframe, Prototype, Testing/Iteration, Development Planning, Coordination with UI Designer,  Coordination with Developer, Tracking Goals and Integration, Analysis and Iteration.  User Interface  Design: Customer Analysis, Design Research, Branding and Graphic Development, User Persona, UI  Prototyping, Interactivity and Animation, Adaptation to All Device Screen Sizes, Implementation  with Developer.  Source Control: GIT.  OS: Windows.  Project Management: Jira, Collabtive.  CMS: WordPress, Dreamweaver.  Editing Tools: Adobe Brackets, PHPStorm.  Adobe CS: Adobe Illustrator, InDesign, Photoshop, and Animation.  Miscellaneous: MS Excel, MS PowerPoint, and MS Word.