Web Developer and Database Administrator, J&B Importers <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> and Database Administrator, J&amp;B Importers Miami, FL Seeking a position as a Programmer and Web Developer where I can best  utilize my well-rounded knowledge of various aspects of Computer,  acquired skills, qualifications and almost 10 years of intensive hands-on  training. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Web Developer and Database Administrator, J&B Importers 2007 to Present • Website and server administrator.  • Strong business skills in addition to technical expertise.  • Web Development/Programming Database Design and Admin quality  assurance other technology projects.  • Create attractive usable, intuitive designs and scalable, efficient web  applications. I have worked for many different industries and have created  many types of sites such as retails sites, information-based sites, real  estate sites, community sites and responsive sites.  • Usability analysis and website structure recommendation.  • Fully responsive cross-browser compatible websites with all type of devices.  • Use AJAX/JQUERY to perform best view and quality in a webpage.  • Coordinate with the Art Department to ensure high quality of images.  • Analyze and resolve security breaches and vulnerability issues in timely. Web Developer Shop Latino TV 2005 to 2007 • Programmer and network administrator.  • Ensure all users have the right service and webpage done.  • Executing MySQL queries against production databases utilizing efficient  data access methods and an in-depth understanding of the data structures  being queries.  • Ensure all webpage's have to be run in time always.  • Analyzing user requirements, procedures, and problems to automate  processing or to improve existing computer systems and information  structures. Contract Web Developer EXXEL Technologies 2003 to 2005 • Developing and maintaining the front-end functionality of websites.  • Designing prototypes for apps and websites.  • Writing cross-browser compliant XHTML, CSS & JavaScript.  • Developing websites that have a consistent feel and look throughout all  web properties.  • Providing technical support to end users.  • Simultaneously managing several databases. Education Bachelor's Skills DATABASE, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, ODBC, SQL, JAVA, jQuery, CSS, ECOMMERCE, LAMP, HTML, BOOTSTRAP, PHP, LINUX, Javascript, codeigniter (Less than 1 year), Laravel (Less than 1 year)