Consultant Consultant Consultant - Verizon A dynamic technical professional with 20+ years of rich experience as a Senior Software/Database Developer/Architect/Team Lead. Extensive experience in analysis, design and software development using Visual Studio .NET. Full system life cycle experience: design, coding, testing, bug fixing, deployment, documentation and maintenance. Capable of leading small to mid range team, resource allocation, project scheduling and delivery with a strict time frame, mentor to the team member, onshore and off-site project coordination. Self-starter, hard worker, able to handle multiple priorities. Excellent communication skills. Excellent track record for meeting deadlines and exceeding expectations. A full stacked professional  • Over 10 years of experience in C#, VB.Net, ASP.Net, ADO.Net,.Net Framework, XML, XSLT, ASP, VB Script, Java Script, Visual Basic, COM/DCOM, MTS, COM+.  • Experience in architecting and developing n-tier distributed.  • Database design and modeling using Visio, Erwin.  • Developing detailed functional, system and program specifications using object oriented design methodologies.  • Proficient in writing SQL Server/Oracle stored procedure, functions, ActiveX Script, SSIS Packages, Job scheduling, Email alerts to DBA, Performance and tuning, stored procedures, processing data load, etc. Work Experience Consultant Verizon May 2019 to Present Senior Developer/Analyst  Currently responsible for converting legacy applications to web based.  • Database component design (Table, Stored Procedure, View, Functions, SSIS Packages).  • Environment: Microsoft Visual Studio 2017, TFS, IIS, ASP, .Net, 4.5 , .Net Core 2.0, Web APIs , Web Services, MVC, WCF, Typescript, Angular, Node.js, Angular 7.0, HTML, DHTML, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, Bootstrap, Angular JS, VB. Net, C#, XML, XSLT, Informix, SQL Server 2016 Senior Developer/Analyst Drew Marine September 2013 to May 2019 Drew Marine is one of the top leading global provider of technical solutions and services to the Maritime industry. I am currently responsible for most of the external and internal web based applications of the company. It also involves developing data transfers between web-applications, SQL Server ,Informix, JDE and AS400/DB2  The main challenge in developing web-applications for ships to take account that Ships do not have access to internet 24 hrs a day. There is only a couple of hours where the service engineer can actually send data from the Ship  VIPS(Vessel Information and Planning System):This external website helps customers get a better handle of which Ship services are due and request or cancel a service. A third party company had initially developed this application. I took the initiative to bring this in-house, which cut down the cost of maintaining and hosting the application.  EZ Order: This external website is similar to the above but exclusively caters to the US govt.  Work Order System: This internal website helps users enter the actual services done on the ship.  Drew Watch: Currently under development. It will help the Customers send us data for all the services done It involves upstream and downstream data transfers  Quote System: This internal website helps Drew-Marine get initial quotes from customers for services based on various ports and post final orders.  Billing System: This internal website helps users generate rebates and discounts for customers based on company policies. This involves getting data from the current legacy AS400/DB2 system. And updating a JDE system.  Navigator: This internal website helps Drew-Marine Top Management get a daily snapshot of all the budgeted, invoiced and actual sales. There are various other reports that help other users get the above information at a detailed level. A SSIS process runs everyday to get data from Informix and oracle databases to update a SQLdatabase which is the datasource of this system.  In addition, I designed and developed the architecture of the business objects of all the above systems to interact with each other and the databases.  Developed WCF services that could be consumed by any application for authentication,sending emails, accessing and displaying PDF files that were generated by a legacy system.  Developed Web APIs that helped with real time updates and data refresh.  All the systems use SSRS to generate PDF/Excel reports.  In addition was responsible for hiring and mentoring peers and sub ordinates. Proactivley took charge of updating/mentoring peers on latest technologies and their implementation.  • Database component design (Table, Stored Procedure, View, Functions, SSIS Packages).  • Environment: Microsoft Visual Studio 2015/2017, TFS, IIS, ASP, .Net, 3.5/4.0/4.5 Web Services, MVC, WCF, HTML, DHTML, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, Bootstrap, Angular JS, VB. Net, C#, XML, XSLT, Informix, SQL Server 2012/2016 Senior Developer/Analyst MindTrust June 2013 to September 2013 NRT is a subsidiary of Realogy, which deals in Real Estate ventures. I was responsible for maintaining an Agent User Interface and web services  • Database component design (Table, Stored Procedure, View, Functions, SSIS Packages).  • Environment: Microsoft Visual Studio 2010,TFS, IIS, ASP, .Net, 3.5 Web Services, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, VB. Net, C#, XML, XSLT, SQL 2008,SSIS,SSRS, Infragistics Controls, OOP, SOAP, LINQ, JQuery , JSON, MCF, AJAX (AjaxPro). Senior Developer/Analyst Solix Inc May 2010 to June 2013 Solix is responsible handling federal and State projects. In addition, there are a few commercial projects. I was responsible for maintaining the following projects:  • Universal Service Program  • Assurance Wireless (www.assurancewireless.com a Virgin Mobile initiative)  • Solix Lifeline  • Mentored developers across groups and involved in design and code review.  • Developed URL redirects.  • Implemented Database driven front-end web controls.  • Developed usercontrols throughout the website.  • Developed webservices to exchange data with vendors.  • Developed SQL Jobs /SSIS packages  ? to send data feeds via webservices  ? to generate ftp files  ? to process data load  • Spearheaded and implemented process improvement strategies that included:  ? Interacting with IT and Business units to emphasize the processes using Expense forecasting.  ? Process changes to minimize sub-prod / prod environment deployment related issues.  ? Code/process changes to minimize .net page checkout conflicts due to Visual Source safe.  ? Consolidated multiple jobs into one to which could be invoked by database table flags.  ? www.assurancewireless.com is a English/Spanish website that relied heavily on global resource files for content display. Changed it to database driven content. This helped minimize code-conflicts and deployment.  • Actively involved in integration of various systems and assisting Business Analysts in developing their specifications and implementation guides.  • Involved in Unit Testing as well as User Acceptance Test (UAT).  • Actively involved with users for pre and post-release activities.  • Design framework for data access, error processing, messaging between layers, coding standards.  • Design and developed internet/intranet application functionalities using C#, VB. Net, ADO. Net, XML, AJAX, SQL Server 2005/2008 and Visual Studio .Net 2008  • All code behind the user controls and in the business logic tier was written in C# /VB .Net.  • Designed and developed Reporting Component using SSRS.  • Designed and developed database objects.  • Wrote SQL Procedures extensively in the project. Fine-tuned Queries to enhance the performance.  • Database component design (Table, Stored Procedure, View, Functions, SSIS Packages and ActiveX Script).  • Environment: Microsoft Visual Studio 2008/2010,SourceSafe,TFS, IIS, ASP, .Net, 3.5 Web Services, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Visual Basic 6.0, JavaScript, VB. Net, C#, XML, XSLT, SQL 2005/2008,SSIS,SSRS, Telerik Controls, OOP, SOAP, LINQ, JQuery,JSON,MVC,AJAX. Senior Developer/Analyst Robert Half Technology /TriOpCo October 2009 to April 2010 • Developed a Dealers and Sales Incentive Program.  • Involved in Unit Testing as well as User Acceptance Test (UAT).  • Database component design (Table, Index, Stored Procedure, View, Functions)  • Environment: Microsoft Visual Studio 2008/Subversion, IIS, ASP, .Net 2.0/3.5, Infragistics ASP.NET controls, MVC, Crystal.NET, ,AJAX Control Toolkit,Log4net,NANT, Web Services, .Net Membership Services, HTML, DHTML, ADO, COM, CSS, XML, Visual Basic 6.0, JavaScript, VBScript, SQL Server 2005/2008, LINQ, T-SQL, VB. Net, C#, XML, XSLT, AJAX, SQL Server Integration Services, SQL Server Reporting Services. OOP. Senior Developer/Analyst Versatech March 2007 to December 2008 • Worked closely with Finance and Sales to design and develop business logic for various modules and reports (ad-hoc as well as web-based).  • Responsible for merging/transfer of Pfizer data to J& J data. Actively involved in integration of various systems and developing specifications and implementation guides.  • Involved in Unit Testing as well as User Acceptance Test (UAT).  • Actively involved with users for post-release activities (product support, maintenance, enhancement, refinement, etc)  • Developed and designed Security Component. Based on the attributes assigned, users have access to all or few modules or only to a predetermined set of data.  • Wrote batch processes scripts.  • Designed and developed Reporting Component using XML.  • Designed and developed database objects.  • Wrote Procedures extensively in the project. Fine tuned Queries to enhance the performance  • Responsible for maintenance of Sales Forecasting System.  • Database component design (Table, Index, Stored Procedure, View, Functions)  • Environment: Microsoft Visual Studio 2003/SourceSafe, IIS, ASP, .Net 2.0/3.5, Web Services, HTML, DHTML, ADO, COM, CSS, XML, Visual Basic 6.0, JavaScript, VBScript, SQL Server 2005/2008, Oracle 7.0, T-SQL, VB. Net, C#, XML, XSLT, Crystal Reports 9.0/10.0, Visio 2003, AJAX, OOP Senior Developer/Analyst Insys Inc May 2004 to March 2007 • Responsible for design and development of Federal and State projects.  • Worked on the business requirements document, architecture design, physical and logical Data modeling, application development, testing, training, and also on production support. Actively involved in gathering end user Requirements, User/System Documentation, user training and testing.  • Assisted Technical Director in plan outlay, execution process, cost estimation, release plan.  • Lead a team of 3-5 developers. Also allocated resources, mentored developers and involved in design and code review.  • Actively involved in integration of various systems and developing their specifications and implementation guides.  • Involved in Unit Testing as well as User Acceptance Test (UAT).  • Actively involved with users for pre and post-release activities.  • Organized Weekly/Monthly meetings with Developers/Business units for status updates, exchange of ideas, resolving issues, etc.  • Design framework for data access, error processing, messaging between layers, coding standards.  • Design web forms to process the application functionalities using C#, VB. Net, ADO. Net, XML, SQL Server 2000 ,Visual Studio .Net 2003 and incorporating Service Oriented Architecture SOA  • Developed Approval Application functionalities using VB. Net, ADO. Net, XML, Oracle and Visual Studio .Net 2003.  • Used HTML/DHTML, CSS, JavaScript and/or server side controls to dynamically change the look of the application. Created User Controls like navigation controls, Calendar Controls, Address Control, etc. to be reused across multiple areas of the site.  • All code behind the user controls and in the business logic tier was written in C# /VB .Net.  • Designed and developed Reporting Component using Crystal Reports and Dataset.  • Designed and developed database objects.  • Wrote SQL Procedures extensively in the project. Fine tuned Queries to enhance the performance  • Wrote DTS Scripts for doing data transformations across different systems, converted data to different formats.  • Database component design (Table, Stored Procedure, View, Functions, DTS Packages and ActiveX Script).  • Environment: Microsoft Visual Studio 2003/SourceSafe, IIS, ASP, .Net, 2.0 Web Services, Windows Services, HTML, DHTML, ADO, COM, CSS, XML, Visual Basic 6.0, JavaScript, VBScript, SQL 2000, Oracle 7.0, T-SQL, VB. Net, C#, XML, XSLT, Crystal Reports, MTS, ERWIN, Visio 2003,Windows-2003 Server Lead Web Developer/ Analyst SPAR Group Inc August 2000 to April 2004 • Responsible for design and development of Online Training System and Financial Automation Systems (Billing Automation System & Sales Commission System)  • Lead two teams each consisting of 4 developers each. Also allocated resources, mentored developers and involved in design and code review.  • Actively involved with users for pre and post-release activities.  • Organized Weekly/Monthly meetings with Developers/Business units for status updates, exchange of ideas, resolving issues, etc.  • Design the framework for data access, error processing, messaging between layers, coding standards.  • Used HTML/DHTML, CSS, JavaScript and/or server side controls to dynamically change the look of the application. Created User Controls like Navigation controls, Report Selection, data based Textbox Control, etc. to be reused across multiple areas of the site.  • Design the web forms to process the application functionalities using C#, VB. Net, ADO. Net, XML, SQL Server 2000 and Visual Studio .Net.  • All code behind the user controls and in the business logic tier was written in C# /VB. Net.  • Designed and developed database objects.  • Wrote SQL Procedures extensively in the project. Fine tuned Queries to enhance the performance  • Wrote DTS Scripts for doing data transformations across different systems, converted data to different formats.  • Database component design (Table, Stored Procedure, View, Functions,).  • My main achievement was automating the Client Billing System (Billing Automation System), which helped us to resolve a dispute with a client where we under billed them by $60,000.00.  • Environment: Microsoft Visual Studio 2003/SourceSafe, IIS, ASP, .Net 1.1, HTML, DHTML, ADO, COM, CSS, XML, Visual Basic 6.0, JavaScript, VBScript, SQL Server 7.0/2000, VB. Net, C#, XML, XSLT, MTS Senior Web Developer/Analyst Amex Information and Systems - London July 1999 to August 2000 UK  • Designed and developed Online Share Trading website for MBA. This website was judged as # 3 among the entire online share trading websites of UK.  • Environment: IIS, ASP, HTML, DHTML, ADO, COM, CSS, Visual Basic 5.0, JavaScript, VBScript, SQL Server 6.5, Oracle 7.0.  • Website Address: www.stockacademy.com / www.xest.com  • Designed and developed the Candidate Tracking System. This helped in speeding up the scanning for potential consultants/employees.  • Environment: IIS, ASP, HTML, DHTML, ADO, COM, CSS, Visual Basic 5.0, JavaScript, VBScript, SQL Server 6.0  • Website Address: www.amexit.com Developer/Project Leader Access Dataline Pvt. Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra July 1996 to May 1999 India  • Designed and developed the Payroll System, Inventory Control System and Financial Accounting System for LEP Logistics, STAR TV, Monsanto Financials and Templeton Financials. The Payroll System in addition to cutting down costs and time, helped one client to pin point a couple employees who were given irregular appraisals.  • As, a Project Leader, involved in the full Project Life-cycle of the system. Work involved system study, design, development, testing and maintenance of the system and interaction with the end-users. Designed Web pages, database objects, Visual Basic COM Components, etc. Role also included allocation of work to my juniors. Was also involved in the pre-sales and post-sales of the software (Demos, Meetings, etc).  • Environment: IIS, ASP, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Visual Basic 5.0, JavaScript, VBScript, SQL Server 6.0, Oracle 7.0, Access'97, Crystal Reports 4.0. Developer Analyst Avis Auto October 1995 to June 1996 Om information and Technology, Mumbai India  • Designed and developed the Auto System for Avis Auto  • Environment: FoxPro 2.0 Junior Developer Mumbai, Maharashtra May 1994 to September 1995 India  • Designed and developed the Coil System for Lloyds Ltd  • Designed and developed a Financial Accounting System for Lloyds Ltd and Templeton Financials  • Environment: FoxPro 2.0 Education Bachelor of Science Bombay University - Mumbai, Maharashtra Skills Ajax, Asp, Css, Dhtml, Interdev, Visual interdev, Iis, Web services, Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, C#, C++, Html, Javascript, Node.js, Typescript, Json, Subversion, Vb.net, Vbscript Additional Information Technical Skill:  Languages: C#, VB.NET, VB6. 0, T-SQL (DDL, DML), VBScript, JavaScript, TypeScript,HTML/DHTML, XML (XSD, XSLT), C, C++, COBOL.  Technologies: ASP. Net, ADO. Net, XML Web Services, COM+, COM/DCOM, ASP, SOAP,REST APIs  Database: MS-SQL Server 6.5/7.0/2000/2005/2008/2012/2016, Oracle 7.0/8.0/10g (T-SQL, SQL, PLSQL, Stored Procedures, Triggers, etc)  Development Tools:  Visual Studio. NET, VB 4.0/5.0/6.0, VB.Net, Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio, MS Visio, MS Office, FoxPro 2.x, Dbase4, Clipper 5.0,ErWin.    Web Development:  Node.js, Angular 7.0, AJAX, ASP, IIS, HTML, DHTML, CSS, VBScript, JavaScript, ASP. Net, Visual InterDev, Microsoft Visual Studio ,SourceSafe,TFS, Subversion, Web Services, XML, XSLT, C#, ADO. Net.,LINQ, , SOAP, MCF,AJAX, JQuery, JSON, Telerik/Infragistics Controls    Reporting Tool: Crystal Reports, Crystal.NET, SQL Server Reporting Services  Operating System: Windows Server 2003/2008, MS Windows 7/XP/2000/98/NT/3.5, DOS, UNIX  Methodologies: OOAD using UML