Senior Android Developer Senior Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Android Developer - Pitney Bowes Stamford, CT 13+ years in I.T., developing software for desktop, web sites, web services and Android mobile apps  5+ years working as Android Developer in multiple projects for various business types  9 Android Apps published and some enterprise developments Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Android Developer Pitney Bowes - Stamford, CT May 2017 to Present Android SDK, Android Studio, Java, EventBus 3, OkHTTP 3, fasterXML/Jackson, RecyclerViews, greenDAO, Robolectric, Mockito, HockeyApp, AWS, Jira, Agile, Scrum, MQTT, Git    I was hired to develop a new Android app from scratch. This app must enable an Android tablet to communicate with a printer and with a server. I was also responsible for the mailing dates module.  The Android tablet uses its own AOSP so it can communicate with a host- based printer and interchange JSON messages. The CSD Mailing App for Android is responsible for printing postage for letter mail so it can be sent overnight from any office or mail center, as well as USPS packages at discounted rates.  • Worked in Android Studio using Java code and working with various Android frameworks and libraries.  • Development of Android core message transactions layer using EventBus.  • Consumption of RESTful web services using Retrofit to make asynchronous network calls.  • Developed update patches, modules, and components for the CSD Mailing App.  • Created user interfaces with the latest material design guidelines for API and UI/UX.  • In charge of design and implementation of Core Date Advance feature in the Android App.  • Successfully resolved all production bugs, enabling immediate release of the Android build.  • Developed persistence utility layer using greenDAO for Android app storage.  • Consumption of web services using AWS.  • In charge of implementing the HockeyApp releases for Android app.  • Implemented full test suite using Robolectric for automated testing of the Android application.  • Created Jira user histories and assigned tasks to Android team members.  • Responsible for performing code reviews to ensure Android code base is stable and clean.  • Attended daily standups, sprint planning meetings and sprint retrospectives.  • Successfully resolved complex merge conflicts involving Android Git repository.  • In charge of synchronizing local database with remote database using MQ Telemetry transport (MQTT) messaging protocol for constrained devices and low bandwidth. Senior Android Developer Care Cloud - Miami, FL October 2016 to April 2017 Android Studio, Postman, Git, HockeyApp, JSON Editor, UI/UX, Retrofit, RxJava, Restful web services, Picasso, Volley, Scrum, Robolectric, Android Core Libraries    In charge of synchronizing local database with remote database using MQTT.  Publish and subscribing of JSON objects to remote HiveMQ Broker.  • Android Development Team Lead in charge of 7 Android developers, and in charge of the Android team's collaboration with back-end developers, graphic designers, and product managers.  • Implemented payments module with PayPal API on the Android app.  • Migrated RESTful web services from Volley to Retrofit and RxJava.  • Responsible for integrating the user interface with RESTful web services while improving performance by integrating Retrofit and RxJava.  • Responsible for the development of WebViews to make use of dynamic forms based on the content of the JSON response.  • In charge of integrating services layers with the Android app UI.  • Responsible for development of the Android app testing layer using Robolectric for automated testing.  • Responsible for implementing Picasso to download images from web services.  • Developed broadcast services for the Android app.  • Responsible for Android performance improvement across all activities by splitting activities in multiple fragments using core Android libraries.  • In charge of the creation of custom components such as dialogs, calendars, pickers and fonts using Android Core libraries.  • Developed custom animations for transitions between activities using Android libraries.  • Performed the role of Scrum master with great results by making optimal use of each team member.  • Responsible for ensuring quality bug-free Android code base and resolving any issues found is such way as to maintain optimal performance.  • Configured GitHub repository and managed Android app code base with Git for version control and JIRA for issue tracking, task management and project management.  • Responsible for leading daily scrums and planning sprints, coaching the team and mentoring individual developers.  • Planned and oversaw integration testing using Robolectric and Retrofit.  • Managed continuous integration of code repository with HockeyApp.  • Reviewed code in all pull requests and commits.  • I was able to run a very successful Android project by maximizing the individual capabilities of each team member and the collective capacity of the team by allowing each member the freedom to perform according to individual capabilities, supported by one another and me as the lead and mentor.  • Managed the project, estimating work, defining scope of project, each requirement and task and organizing the tasks for each sprint so that we were able to successfully produce a working product for each sprint. Senior Android Developer Bosch - Mount Prospect, IL April 2016 to October 2016 Dagger 2, Retrofit, RxAndroid, Runtime permissions, SugarCRM, Butter Knife, Gimbal SDK, Beacons, Services, Roboelectric, JUnit, MVP, Singleton, Iterator, Proxy, Observer, SQLite, Threading, MQTT, HiveMQ, Qo1.    • In charge of synchronizing local database with remote database using MQTT.  • Publish and subscribing of JSON objects to remote HiveMQ Broker.  • Handling of Qo1, Qo2 and LastWill.  • Implementation of Android components and modules using Dagger 2.0  • Consuming RESTful web services using Retrofit and RxAndroid.  • In charge of implementing the business layer for Dangerous Android permissions  • In charge of implementing MVP layers and database layer using SugarCRM.  • In charge of implementing a new Android app architecture design using Dagger, RxAndroid, Retrofit, Butter Knife and core android libraries.  • In charge of implementing Gimbal SDK framework and Beacons using Android Services.  • Using Intent Services to run a process in the background to perform database updates.  • Used Android Device Monitor for monitoring CPU load, heap size and memory usage.  • Implemented Fabric Answers to monitor crashes and exceptions and user app analytics data.  • Implemented several architecture design patterns such as MVP, Singleton, Iterator, Visitor, Mediator, Proxy and Observer.  • Refactored and redesigned multiple Android modules for reusability purposes.  • Tested the mobile app in various emulators to support multiple Android devices.  • Effectively used Activities, Services, Broadcast Receivers, SQLite and preferences Android components.  • Gathered requirements for the Android application in meetings with stakeholders.  • Conducted code reviews with the development team following best practices and implementing the company's naming convention  • Use of SQLite database schema to persistent data storage for every schedule.  • Used navigation drawer to provide quick and easy access to the menu items.  • Designed the application with an MVP approach, setting up all the interfaces and the decoupling of the classes.  • Implemented automated testing with Roboelectric.  • Implemented the use of threads on several tasks which improved the application performance.  • Used JUnit for testing the Android application durability and efficiency. Lead Android Developer AIG - New York, NY April 2015 to April 2016 Android Studio, Material Design, Fragments, DrawerLayout, CoordinatorLayout, SQLCipher, RecyclerView, CardViews, SQLite, Retrofit, RxJava, LeakCanary, Espresso, Mockito, Firebase, Git.    • Mentored junior developers by providing advice and guidance when necessary  • Configured a JIRA instance to handle mass ticketing and bug tracking.  • Contributed to the technical documentation for multiple corporate applications.  • Implemented Geo-fencing using the Google Maps API.  • Modified the app navigation by including fragments and transactions  • Utilized a Tabs and Navigation Drawers to easily switch between application activities and fragments.  • Tested the user interface implementing Espresso  • Implemented the new Material Design capabilities supported in Android L.  • Designed the database using SQLite local file and a Firebase implementation.  • Used Android Studio as IDE and all his capabilities: build Variants and social media plugins.  • Developed custom and compound views to match UI/UX specifications  • Configured Git repositories in GitHub, BitBucket and GitLab.  • Extensive use of support libraries to ensure backward compatibility with older android versions  • Implemented multi-language support using XML for simple menus and web services for content.  • Implemented secure data encryption using an SQLCipher instance  • Added android wear compatibility for actions and notifications.  • Designed custom animations for transitions between application activities  • Supported multiple screen devices using Fragments and width-aware layouts.  • Supported multiple screen resolutions to provide proper resizing across multiple devices  • Created Material Design layouts with different animations optimized for the final User Experience.  • Consumed Web Services using a Retrofit instance with a built-in GSON converter. Lead Android Developer Liberty Mutual Insurance Group - Boston, MA September 2014 to March 2015 Android Studio, Dagger, SQLCipher, Content Providers, Material Design, Butter Knife, Picasso, Retrofit, Parcelable, PayPal, ZXing, SQLCrypt, Parse, Roboelectric, Otto.    • Implemented Dagger to work with a Dependency Injection environment to help with the unit testing.  • Secured the information and user data with an SQLCipher instance and working with HTTPS requests.  • Used Leak Canary in order to find memory leaks, optimize and improve the performance.  • Created multiple Content Providers with a native approach to handle UI asynchronous updates.  • Added the Parcelable interface for marshalling and unmarshalling setter and getter classes  • Implemented Parse to simplify mobile push notifications.  • Worked with card.io SDK for Android in order to scanning fast, easy credit card in mobile apps.  • Involved in the decision making for the technologies being used.  • Worked with ZXing library for the coupon bar code reading module  • Worked with PayPal Android SDK for making payments.  • Implemented Google Maps and Location services.  • Used Butter Knife library for implemented binding for Android views.  • Implemented Otto library for decouple different parts of the application.  • Implemented Picasso to download the image from web services.  • Helped the back end team during the design of the new Restful API for the mobile platform  • Used Crashlytics to track user behavior and obtain mobile analytics.  • Included Retrofit in order to make asynchronous HTTP requests in an anonymous callback.  • Use of support libraries to ensure backward compatibility with older Android versions.  • Performed extensive application testing with the Roboelectric unit test framework. Senior Android Developer USA Today - McLean, VA January 2014 to September 2014 Android Studio, Picasso, Services, Urban Airship, Volley, Flurry, Joda-Time, New Relic, SQLite, AChartEngine    • Consumed SOAP web services with the KSOAP library  • Worked with Volley for consuming RESTful web services.  • Attended daily SCRUM meetings to track app development progress.  • Utilized Git as version control tool as source control management system.  • Supported multiple screen resolutions to provide resizing across multiple devices.  • Contributed to the technical documentation for this application.  • Used support libraries to ensure backward compatibility with older android versions.  • Implemented Flurry analytics for mobile app stats.  • Used Google AdMob in order to maximize the monetization.  • Used YouTube Android Player API to incorporate videos.  • Worked with JSON library to parse JSON files.  • Implemented Picasso in order to use Asynchronous networking and image loading.  • Worked with NineOldAndroids library for include animating rotation, translation, alpha and scale.  • Implemented Otto library for decouple different parts of the application  • Implemented Picasso for downloads the image and show in UI.  • Used NewRelic in order to optimize and improve the performance.  • Implemented Urban Airship for makes the push notification easy.  • Created compound and custom UI components improve the user experience  • Used Joda-Time for provide a quality replacement for java date and time classes.  • Used AChartEngine (charting library for Android applications) for financial indicators. Android Developer Vips - Mexico City, MX June 2013 to January 2014 Volley, Flurry, Parcelable, Volley, Balsamic, Universal Image Loader    • Use of support libraries to ensure backward compatibility with older Android versions.  • Worked extensively with fragments to improve the user navigation experience  • Included Flurry SDK for analytics proposes.  • Implemented Google Maps for geolocation purposes  • Used Google GSON to parse JSON files.  • Integrated Java Guava Libraries for string processing, concurrency libraries, I/O functions.  • Worked with Universal Image Loader library for image rendering in ListViews  • Implemented View Holder Pattern in ListView Adapters to improve the memory usage.  • Used Parcelable to serialize Java objects from activity to activity  • Supported multiple screen resolutions to provide proper resizing across multiple devices.  • Attended daily SCRUM meetings to track app development progress.  • Worked with Volley to consume REST API Web Services  • UI/UX design and wire framing with multiple tools including Balsamiq Mockups Android Developer Gourmet Mexico Magazine - Mexico City, MX July 2012 to June 2013 GSON, SQLite, Fragments, SlidingMenu, GCM, Google Analytics  • Used of support libraries to ensure backward compatibility with older OS versions.  • Implemented Bolts framework for asynchronous tasks and handling complex errors.  • Utilized ActionBarSherlock library to ensure compatibility with action bars in Android  • Implemented Google Analytics for app analytics proposes.  • Worked with the Facebook API for automated login  • Implemented push notifications with Google Cloud Messaging.  • Used Google GSON to parse JSON files.  • Used fragments and tabs to improve the navigation user experience  • Implemented Sliding Menu library to provide a fluid swiping from left to right and right to left  • Implemented SQLite database for persistent data storage and fast data retrieval.  • Mentored junior developers by providing advice and guidance when necessary.  • Supported multiple screen resolutions to provide proper resizing across multiple devices.  • Tracked issued, project planning and development life cycle with Jira.  • Attended daily SCRUM meetings to track app development progress.  Utilize Git version control tool as source control management system. Java Enterprise Web Developer / Android Developer Mexican Government - Mexico City, MX September 2010 to June 2012 Activities, Intents, Custom Dialogs, Adapter, AsyncTask, AChartEngine, Jackson, WebView, YouTube API, RadaeePDF, 9Patch.    • Developed secure and reliable RESTFul web services with J2EE technologies  • Participated on the RESTful API definition  • Architected the Back end solution and participated on the technology selection process  • Influenced the relational model for the database design  • Designed SQLite database schema for implementing persistent data storage.  • Implemented RadaeePDF SDK Android for read, view and modifies PDF files.  • Mounted a WebView to render HTML content from various web sites  • Added services and AsyncTasks to download PDF files without freezing the UI  • Integrated VideoView for video promos about upcoming events  • Used 9Patch images to avoid aspect ratio changes on different screen resolutions  • Contributed to the technical documentation for this application.  • Organized the team and scheduled weekly meetings to report application progress.  • Used Jackson library for parsing JSON files coming from web services  • Created fully reusable and customizable Dialogs for various purposes  • Built custom controls for the navigation bar using compound and custom views Senior Web Developer Deloitte - Mexico City, MX April 2008 to September 2010 Activities, Intents, Custom Dialogs, Adapter, AsyncTask, AChartEngine, Jackson, WebView, YouTube API, RadaeePDF, 9Patch.    • Worked for several clients mainly dynamic public facing web sites  • Developer user interfaces implementing Ajax calls and using JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, HTML  • Launched web solutions over Apache and IIS Senior Web Developer Accenture - Mexico City, MX February 2006 to April 2008 • Provided consulting services for several enterprise level web sites in front end and back end  • Programmed with J2EE frameworks such as Spring, Hibernate, Struts and JSF  • Launched web solutions over Tomcat, GlassFish, JBoss, IIS Education Bachelor's Skills Android (8 years), Git (4 years), IIS (4 years), INTERNET INFORMATION SERVICES (4 years), Java (4 years) Additional Information • Best practices follower for requirement gathering, design, programming and maintenance  • Full stack developer skilled in the business logic (back end) and the user interface (front end)  • Outstanding Android Developer with more than 12 years of hands-on experience in the IT field.  • Consistently delivers high-quality products, following industry best practices and material design guidelines.  • Able to successfully deliver on projects with tight deadlines; Android customer or enterprise apps  • Highly flexible Android professional able to work well in various team sizes, adapt easily to different environment and fill various roles.  • Comfortable working alone or in an Android team, and able to take charge of projects and lead a team.  • Highly proficient in system analysis, design, development, and Android debugging and testing.  • Able to adopt new Android technologies quickly such as recent third-party Android libraries devices.  • Design pattern enthusiast: MVC, MVP, MCCM, Singleton, Observer, Abstract Factory, Dependency Injection, Visitor, Proxy, Decorator, Integrator, Command, Builder,  • Wrote detailed technical documentation per each stage of the Android development cycle.  • Exceptional Programming Skills in JAVA, JDK, JRE, C#.NET, HTML, CSS, JavaScript  • Experience in cross-platform mobile programming with Xamarin.  • Ability to understand an Android solution to assess its alignment with business needs.  • Strong negotiation skills with the ability to influence and persuade with the end goal of gaining consensus, motivating Android team members and bringing stakeholders and team members into alignment.  • Mentors Android team members, assists in Android code reviews and provides support to junior Android developers.  • Agile SCRUM developer and team lead, having taken the roles of SCRUM master and Product Owner.  • Has worked in all development positions, back-end, front-end and design, and through full software development life cycle on Android teams and other enterprises software development teams.  • Able to efficiently gather and document requirements and implement Android app development.  • Has experience with the entire Google Play Store app approval process. For Android.  • Stays current with Android releases and differences in Android versions.  • Leads the design, development and implementation of complex Android systems.  Front End  • Android multi-device UI/UX developer able to work on Phones, Tablets, TV Sticks and Smartwatches.  • Skilled with custom controls, custom and compound views to match various Android UI/UX designs.  • Experienced with multiple screen resolutions, formats and language support in Android development.  • Incorporated animations and transitions, shapes and styles using various Android techniques  • Wireframing implementing various UI/UX design patterns following Material Design guidelines.  Back End  • Consumption of RESTful web services (REST and SOAP) with or without 3rd party libraries  • Web service development (REST and SOAP) with Java and Jersey.  • Hands-on development with sensors such as NFC, Bluetooth, GPS, Tilt and Camera.  • Interfaced with the most popular RDBMS like Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, DB2.  • Business intelligence experience in Web, Desktop and Mobile technology online and offline  Leadership and Management  • Comfortable working both in a team or alone with no supervision required.  • Led various development teams by example and managed resources with outstanding results.  • Prepared class material, trained and mentored Jr developers about android best practices.  • Coordinated work with other remote members of the team to meet our goals and deliverables.  • Comfortable using GitHub, Bitbucket and SVN as version control management systems.  • Familiar with Agile methodologies working with Scrum and Kanban on different project stages.  • Organized teams and conducted fast, efficient and productive meetings.    TECHNICAL SKILLS SUMMARY    Programming Languages    Java  J2EE  C#  XML  HTML  CSS    Development Environment    Android Studio  Eclipse  NetBeans  Visual Studio    Android Libraries    Glide  Fresco  GSON  Volley  Picasso  Universal Image Loader  Retrofit  SQLCrypt  SQLCipher  Spongy Castle  Butter Knife  Dagger  Crashlytics  RxJava  EventBus  Urban Airship  Parse  Espresso    Google APIs    Google Maps  Google Places  Google Cloud Messaging  Google Charts  Google Analytics    Mobile Devices    Phones  Tablets  TV Sticks  Smart Watches  Emulators    Web Servers    IIS  Glassfish  Apache  Tomcat  JBoss    Java Frameworks    Hibernate  Struts  Spring  JSF    Databases    SQLite, MySQL  Core Data, greenDAO  SQL Server  Oracle    Business Intelligence    Jasper Reports  Crystal Reports    Team Management Tools    Jira  HP Quality Center  SVN  Git / GitHub  BitBucket  Team Foundation Server  Jenkins, Travis, Hudson  Project    Documentation Tools    Project | Proto.io | Visio | Justin Mind