N64, IT Specialist N64, IT Specialist N64, IT Specialist - Naval Air Facility El Centro El Centro, CA Sixteen years of work experience in the Information Technology field. I am a results oriented, organized manager with excellent communication and presentation skills. I possess outstanding management, training and administration skills as well as being an experienced web developer, overall IT professional in C#, HTML as well as project management. Work Experience N64, IT Specialist Naval Air Facility El Centro - El Centro, CA April 2018 to Present Lead the implementation of security programs designed to anticipate and minimize system vulnerabilities. Review proposed new systems, networks, and software designs for potential security risks, recommend mitigation or countermeasures, and resolve integration issues related to the implementation of new systems within the existing infrastructure. Develop long-range plans for IT security systems that anticipate, identify, evaluate, mitigate, and minimize risks associated with IT systems vulnerabilities. Coordinate the implementation of security programs across Tier I, II, and III systems, and establish vulnerability reporting criteria. Review security incident response policies and identify the need for changes based on new security technologies or threats. Worked through the DOD RMF process, using ACAS, VRAM, eMASS and STIGs to authenticate the NAF El Centro TACLAN Network. Western Governors University April 2017 to Present April 2017 - Present  Faculty in the College of IT  Serve a critical advising and support role for student success. Take time to counsel my assigned students in understanding expectations and overcoming obstacles to ensure success. Provide highly engaged, student centered support to a caseload of undergraduate students in the BSIT degree program. Identify my students' learning strengths and weaknesses and connect them with the resources necessary to extend the former and overcome the latter. Incredibly well organized and strong communicator, interpersonally, technologically, and in writing. IT Manager / Web Developer Ironbridge Technologies - Tampa, FL 2012 to 2017 Maintain the daily operations of thirty sub-sites on three different SharePoint site collections in three different server farms. Created two site collections from scratch, stripping out all of the out of the box CSS and formatting, then replacing it with more user specific look and feel for the User Interface. Responsible for using unique security policies and addressing risk assessment and disaster recovery. Developing small scale .NET applications using C#, HTML and Java to aid end users and the development team. Manage the application team and solutions portfolio to ensure that projects and enhancements are aligned to business priorities. Manage and maintain web applications on two separate networks as well as create and run unit tests on multiple applications. Create training materials for solutions and applications. SharePoint Administrator / Web Developer Ironbridge Technologies - Tampa, FL 2008 to 2012 Managed the daily operations of twelve portal site administrators. Used an in-depth knowledge of MS SharePoint and SharePoint Designer capabilities to assist with the implementation of new information management processes and applications. Facilitated and managed the migration of USSOCOM portal SharePoint 2003 to MOSS 07. Develop small-scale IT solutions for work center specific requirements on a daily basis. Provide solutions and recommendations to top USSOCOM officials based on investigating information technology systems to identify potential issues. Diagnose information technology issues to provide customer support, technical advice, guidance and recommendations. The last year of this position was in Afghanistan. IT Business Analyst SAIC - Tampa, FL 2007 to 2008 Acted as the Project Manager of numerous IT solutions for the USCENTCOM J2-X, HUMINT/CI community. Worked in the field with HUMINT/CI collection managers and analysts, as well as NATO and ISAF personnel. Traveled to various hazardous areas to conduct training and system evaluations, collect requirements and present solutions to government leadership. Developed and maintained strong IT team relationships with a focus on solutions delivery. Responsible for assessing new intelligence systems and composing recommendations for use, implementation, and funding that were used at the highest levels of military leadership. Provided training to all levels of employees. Intelligence Analyst US NAVY - Norfolk, VA 2000 to 2007 USTRANSCOM, Scott AFB, IL    Languages: .NET, C#, HTML  Awards / Honors Received:  • Joint Commendation Medal  • Certificate of Appreciation from USCENTCOM, signed by Brigadier General Flynn  • Certificate of Appreciation from USCENTCOM, signed by Col Barr, Chief CCJ2-X  • Letter of Commendation, from Commanding Officer USS Theodore Roosevelt Education M.B.A. in Information Technology Management for Business Colorado Technical University August 2009 B.S. in Criminal Justice American InterContinental University September 2007 Skills It Specialist, Information Technology, Army