Art Director Art Director Nashville, TN Solid success directing and implementing a broad range of revenue-generating design projects, from conception to launch. Readily translate business requirements into effective advertising campaigns. Partner cross-functionally to build consensus and ensure projects meet all milestones, deadlines, and budget requirements. Intuitively adapt to new technology and innovative processes while ensuring compliance with corporate standards. Work Experience Art Director SVPWORLDWIDE July 2016 to Present Responsible for implementation of designs and solutions that meet  marketing strategies from concept to completion. Conceptualizing  product packaging designs on a global scale, work can be found in  Walmart, Target, JoAnns, Amazon, Lidl and many other distributors Graphic Designer, Art Director & Web Developer HUSKILLA January 2009 to August 2018 Developed creative ideas and concepts while choosing the  appropriate media and style to meet the client's objectives and goals  for their customers. Clients include, Americas Got Talent, Singer  sewing machines, Pfaff sewing machines, Husqvarna and Hilton  hotels. Frontend Web Developer 4PATRIOTS June 2015 to June 2016 Contracted to maintain 30+ websites while developing new methods  for promoting products and improving Javascript and PHP among  the platforms. Senior Graphic Designer & Web Developer BIBLE PATHWAY January 2011 to December 2015 Published digital and print marketing material, maintained website  for distributing sales and information to its users. Created eye  catching magazine covers and spreads leading to an increase in  overall sales for the company. Education BA in Graphic Design MTSU September 2009 to May 2011 Associate Coffeyville Community College August 2006 to May 2008 Skills Adobe Photoshop (10+ years), Adobe Illustrator (10+ years), Adobe Indesign (10+ years), Adobe Dreamweaver (10+ years), Adobe After Effects (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Javascript (5 years), PHP (5 years), Graphic Design (10+ years), Photography/Videography (8 years), Web Development (8 years), UI/UX Design (8 years), Branding Marketing (8 years), Team Work (10+ years), Adobe, Marketing, Illustrator, Wordpress, Photoshop Links http://WWW.HUSKILLA.COM http://LINKEDIN.COM/IN/HUSKILLA Additional Information From concept to completion I creatively communicate ideas that inspire, inform and captivate the market. I craft campaigns that have an instant, positive impact on the consumer which in turn translates to profitably. I am adept in creating and conceptualizing various forms of marketing, including video, digital and print, email blast campaigns as well as fully functioning E-Commerce websites.