Sr. Software/Applications Developer Sr. Software/Applications <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Software/Applications Developer - North Carolina Joint/Insurance Underwriting Association Garner, NC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Software/Applications Developer North Carolina Joint/Insurance Underwriting Association - Raleigh, NC February 2013 to Present Technical Lead on multiple development projects. Guidewire development and administration utilizing Eclipse and AWS, Design new computer programs by analyzing requirements; constructing workflow charts and diagrams; studying system capabilities and writing specifications. Involved with the support and implementation of a new policy administration system.  Applications and Database development/management with the use of multiple development tools (MS Access, SQL Server, MS Visual Studio (C#/VB.NET), Dreamweaver and others). Improve systems by studying current practices; designing modifications. Develop complex Databases reports. Manage and maintain company Website, Help Desk system (ServiceDesk Plus) and Intranet. Develop and maintain in-house, web based and desktop, applications. Make application design recommendations. Re-design of company website for a professional look, better performance and easier maintenance. Network Administrator Manager Accesscare - Morrisville, NC May 2010 to January 2013 Management of several North Carolina network medical offices in regards to the training and contractual agreements of the Provider Portal web application. Manage user accounts and access rights. Managed contractual agreements needed for portal access and HIPAA compliance. Training all new employees on application use, and HIPAA policies. Creation of SharePoint 2010 environment. Administrator of SharePoint environment. Database creation and management via SQL Server and MS Access. Creating web based and desk-top application via ASP.NET (VB.NET) to automate manual processes. Data Analytical duties. SQL and MS Access report building. Partner with IT Manager on all IT duties (Active directory administration, Server administration, etc ). Assistant HIPAA Privacy Officer. Creation of company branding/Marketing materials including folders, brochures, PowerPoint presentations, Web site design, etc, make recommendations on purchases for best practices. Police Officer City of Greensboro - Greensboro, NC March 2006 to June 2009 Effect arrest, prepare investigative reports and exercise independent judgment, Operates a law enforcement vehicle, Communicate coherently and effectively, pursue fleeing suspects, utilize firearms, perform searches and conduct surveillance and engage in law enforcement patrol functions. Developer/Data Analyst R. H. Donnelley - Cary, NC May 2008 to February 2009 Design and development of web tools: Front and back end applications development utilizing design, CSS, HTML, and Classic ASP. Created an access database for page interaction. QA testing of web application. Perform functions of a Data Analyst. Create and Modify Access forms utilizing VBA. Web Developer TekSystems - Greensboro, NC November 2007 to February 2008 Design and development of ASP.NET/VB.NET websites/applications with SQL server backend. Utilized ASP.NET/VB.NET, HTML, CSS and JavaScript to create a working website that was designed by a web designer. Made design suggestions to the web designer to coincide with development efforts. Update website content on an as needed base. QA testing of web application Developer/Data Analyst R. H. Donnelley - Cary, NC March 2007 to November 2007 Design and development of ASP/ASP.NET application. Perform functions of a Data Analyst. Create and Modify Access forms utilizing VBA. QA testing of application. Developer II PRYMAK, LLP - Greensboro, NC November 2005 to May 2006 Primary responsibilities include design and development of Loan Origination software utilizing ASP/VB code. Designed, developed and tested new financial LOBOT (Loan Origination) system using ASP. Performed QA testing, debugging and code fixes on existing loan origination software. Web Developer KPMG, LLP - Woodcliff Lake, NJ May 1997 to October 2004 Management of contract developers on multiple projects. Design and development of ASP/ASP.NET application. Provided object-oriented design, programming and implementation support to the KRisk Auditing system and its administration tool, written in VB/ASP. Conducted application training sessions. KRisk Auditing system administrator. Prepared user documentation for KRisk Auditing system and its administration tool. Project base technical lead. Designed all aspects of company web/desktop applications and conforming to company branding. Back-up and restoration of databases, created access reports to assist Partners with audits. Built testing environments for KRisk Auditing system which helped with the migration of application to Canada and the United Kingdom. Involved in the creation of " Web Design Guide". Problem-solved application issues. QA testing of web application. Education Business Marketing Rockland Community College - New York, NY Business Administration New York Institute of Technology - Central Islip, NY Skills ASP. (10+ years), ASP.NET (10+ years), MS ASP (10+ years), QA (9 years), QA testing (9 years), C#, Vb.Net, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, BootStrap, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, Microsoft Office, Visual Studio, Git, XML, JSON Additional Information SKILLS  Languages  • ASP, HTML, CSS, ASP.NET/VB.NET/C#, VBA, VB, HTML5, JavaScript, XML, JSON  Software  • Database: Microsoft SQL Server and Microsoft Access, Platforms: Microsoft Windows 7, 8, 10, Other: Adobe Creative Cloud Products (Dreamweave, Fireworks, PhotoShop, etc ), Microsoft Visual Studio 2010/2012/2015/2017, SQL Server, Team Foundation Server(TFS), GIT, SharePoint, ManageEngine ServiceDesk Plus (HelpDesk).  Other Skills  • Ability to manage and lead.  • Requirements specifications gathering and documentation.  • QA Testing and Load Testing of applications.  • Ability to quickly learn and apply new technologies.  • In-depth experience applying graphic design principals to produce innovative and tastefully created Web sites.  • Intrinsic creative talent and lifelong interest in design and development; offer a keen eye for quality design and document/ Web site layout.  • Completed high-impact graphic and Web design/development projects including menus, logos, CD covers, flyers, brochures, and multiple Web sites/applications.  • Exceptionally well organized; strong work ethics and willingness to work hard to achieve employer objectives.