Help desk Technician Help desk Technician Help desk Technician Three Bridges, New Jersey, 08887, US Work Experience Help desk Technician Hunterdon Central HUB - Flemington, NJ September 2015 to June 2019 Serve as the first point of contact for customers seeking technical assistance over the phone or email  ? Perform remote troubleshooting through diagnostic techniques and pertinent questions  ? Determine the best solution based on the issue and details provided by customers  ? Walk the customer through the problem-solving process  ? Direct unresolved issues to the next level of support personnel  ? Provide accurate information on IT products or services  ? Record events and problems and their resolution in logs  ? Follow-up and update customer status and information  ? Pass on any feedback or suggestions by customers to the appropriate internal team  ? Identify and suggest possible improvements on procedures Mobile App Developer Twenty Four Seven - Tampa, FL October 2017 to November 2018 Support the entire application lifecycle (concept, design, test, release, and support)  ? Produce fully functional mobile applications writing clean code  ? Gather specific requirements and suggest solutions  ? Write unit and UI tests to identify malfunctions  ? Troubleshoot and debug to optimize performance  ? Design interfaces to improve the user experience  ? Liaise with a Product development team to plan new features  ? Ensure new and legacy applications meet quality standards  ? Research and suggest new mobile products, applications and protocols  ? Stay up-to-date with new technology trends Web Developer Best Dental Center - Brooklyn, NY December 2017 to October 2018 Develop new user-facing features Build reusable code and libraries for future use  ? Ensure the technical feasibility of UI/UX designs  ? Optimize application for maximum speed and scalability  ? Assure that all user input is validated before submitting to back-end Education Hunterdon Central High School - Flemington, NJ November 2018 to Present Skills .NET, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, CORDOVA, CSS, Help Desk, Service Desk, Desktop Support, Active Directory, Tech Support