Instructional Designer Instructional Designer Software Engineer Bastrop, TX I love programming. I take pride in my work. I care deeply about others. I'm enjoyable to work with. I love sharing what I know and I appreciate every opportunity I get to learn from others.    I am a full-stack engineer that is passionate about writing beautiful code to create beautiful products that consider the user experience. I’m always on the lookout for new challenges and enjoy collaborating with team members to come up with creative solutions to problems. I’m happy both diving deep into the details and leading a team to create a well-architected product. I have startup experience where I was directly responsible for building and shipping a scalable application -- which included load balanced web servers, replicated databases, data processing, and a custom built message queueing system. I’ve been recently utilizing JavaScript across the stack, React on the front-end, and Node on the back-end, and very quickly pick up new technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Instructional Designer Humboldt State University 2013 to 2016 ? Developed department and academic course websites.  ? Created custom Wordpress theme and Wordpress plugins for department website.  ? Utilized MeteorJS and Basecamp API to create a real-time dashboard of department project statuses and issues.  ? Provided instructional design services to faculty for online and hybrid courses.  ? Delivered trainings, documentation, and other materials to support teaching and learning. Instructional Designer College of the Redwoods 2010 to 2013 ? Provided instructional design services to faculty for online and hybrid courses.  ? Delivered trainings, documentation and other materials to support teaching and learning. Lead Software Engineer AMG Data Services 2005 to 2010 ? Led development of mutual fund analysis app, which serviced investors and reporters.  ? Provided technical direction and mentorship to engineering team members.  ? Administered company's web, database, data processing, and email servers.  ? Collaborated with company owner to determine product direction. Web Developer SUNY Cobleskill 2002 to 2004 ? Led the rebrand and redesign of college's web presence.  ? Focused on user-centered, standards-compliant, and accessible design.  ? Provided training and consultation to faculty and staff department page maintainers. Web Developer Mercury Web Solutions October 2000 to January 2002 ? Worked with clients to understand business needs and take projects from concept to launch.  ? Provided design guidance to other designers on the team. Education B.S. in COMPUTER SCIENCE UNION COLLEGE 2000 Skills JavaScript, Node, Express, React, Redux, Git, MySQL, MongoDB, jQuery, HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, SASS, REST, Web Design, Web Development, Bootstrap, Accessibility, SQL Links http://linkedin.com/in/taptapdan http://github.com/taptapdan