Web Programmer <span class="hl">Web</span> Programmer Web Programmer Los Angeles, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Programmer https://dru.com? http://lecoeurjp.com/? ?http://laxairport.com/? - Los Angeles, CA January 2018 to Present ? Quickly and confidently design wireframes, flow charts and mock-ups.  ? Built video/audio players ensuring the use of the latest technology and universal access.  ? Built electronic forms and workflows to automate business processes.  ? Modify, install WordPress and existing code as needed.  ? Themes and plugins, and experience writing and using APIs.  ? Web development (HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, MySql) and multimedia.  ? Search engine optimization.  ? Web analytics for metrics reports.  ? Data Science  ? E-commerce Web Developer NASA/JPL/Caltech - Pasadena, CA May 2005 to November 2017 ? Designed, coded and modified websites, from layout to function and according to a client's specifications. Strived to create visually appealing sites that featured user-friendly design and clear navigation.  ? Developed iPhone and Android App resulting and received award from the NASA  Inventions and Contributions Board.  ? Tech Brief Magazine article an award for scientific and technical contributions to NASA.  ? Developed video and audio players in JavaScript ensuring the use of the latest technology and universal access.  ? Developed and managed electronic forms and workflows to automate business processes.  ? Established Phoenix Mars mission mobile-friendly website in 2006.  ? PHP programmer and Laravel framework.  ? Object Oriented design and Programming.  ? Familiarity with components and configuration for the LAMP stack.  ? Build client websites with WordPress, and modify existing code as needed.  ? Develop themes and plugins, and experience writing and using APIs.  ? Performed all day-to-day aspects of MySQL database developer - including design, installation, queries upgrades, security, performance monitoring, and optimization.  ? Developed web applications for the different events calendar.  ? Applies consultative skills to assess user needs and communicate technology systems and solutions.  ? Researches and evaluates the functionality of vendor software to meet user needs.  ? Published video and news releases to NASA and JPL sites.  ? JavaScript (Reactjs), Bootstrap, and regular expressions.  ? Solid Understanding of HTML5/CSS3(SASS), jQuery, and Responsive Design.  ? Produce ADA WCAG 2.0 A and AA(508) compliant web pages, and documents.  ? Evaluates and troubleshoots software processes and programs.  ? Utilized Google web analytics for metrics reports.  ? Performed daily testing of site to ensure optimal levels of website functionality.  ? Analyzed over website for customer ease of navigate and increased time on site.  ? Implementation variable configurations for props, events and evars in Javascript.  ? Hands on weekly/monthly reporting across several channels, including website, email, mobile, and mobile applications.  ? Search engine optimization. Frontend Engineer Los Angeles Times - Los Angeles, CA 2007 to 2009 ? Programming in JSP  ? Build a Human Resources website  ? Build CMS Backend Engineer The City of Los Angeles - Los Angeles, CA 2004 to 2005 ? Redesign of website  ? Developed electronic forms and workflows to automate business processes.  ? Programming in Coldfusion Software Engineer LA County Fire Department - Los Angeles, CA 2003 to 2004 ? Team member to developed Los Angeles County Fire Department website.  ? Responsible for full stack web development for all client projects.  ? Programming in ASP Software Developer Cal State University - Los Angeles, CA 2002 to 2003 ? Developed the UI layout for web applications  ? Strong working experience in solving Cross-Browser Compatibility.  ? Data Science Web Graphics Designer Southern California Edison - Los Angeles, CA 2001 to 2001 ? Designed web pages.  ? Email marketing templates.  ? HTML, Javascript, and CSS Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science California State University - Los Angeles, CA Associate in Science in Mathematics in Mathematics Los Angeles City College - Los Angeles, CA Skills Algorithm, Software engineering, GUI, Javascript, OOP, Php, XML, Html5, Database, Mysql, Oracle, HTML, Bootstrap, Front End, Jquery, Wordpress Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/martin-perez-Programmer Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages: Assembly Language, Algorithm Analysis, ASP, C, C++,  CSS3, Cold Fusion, Graphical User Interface (GUI), HTML5, Java,  JavaScript, Java Server Pages(JSP), Networking, OOP, Perl, PHP,  Servlets, Security, Software Engineering, Multimedia, Visual Basic 6.0,  and XML.  Software: Apache, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Creative Suite, Web  Design, InDesign, Logo Design, Typography, Drupal, FTP, JDK1.4,  Macromedia, Metrics, SSH, Tomcat, WordPress, and 3D.  Systems: Windows, Mac, Linux, iOS, Android  Database: Artificial Intelligence (Programming in Logic and Lisp),  Access, Database Connectivity (JDBC), Oracle, and SQL (MySQL).  Assist Tech: ACCVerify, JAWS, Sort Site, and WindowEyes