Senior Drupal Developer Senior Drupal <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Drupal Developer Palo Alto, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Drupal Developer Amazon - Seattle, WA June 2016 to Present Amazon.com, Inc. engages in the retail sale of consumer products and subscriptions in North America and internationally. The company operates through three segments: North America, International, and Amazon Web Services (AWS) segments.  Responsibilities  • As Lead Developer, I have supervised code and project workflow of junior developers on Client blog.  • Experience as a lead internal development role now used to demonstrate Drupal capabilities.  • Experienced in Drupal tool like View Tools, Drupal Theme Viewer to create powerful and flexible web applications.  • As Lead Developer, edited, coded, developed and edited Front End & Back End of a new exclusive Wordpress web site for a the client.  • Developed/Design the application using LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL5 and PHP) architecture using Wordpress, Magento/Zend Framework.  • Developed a custom module on Drupal which will replace the node files token in body text and replace URL in the image tag and path.  • Develop and implement the project plan for the redesign of the existing internal marketing communications website built on the WordPress content management system.  • Helped team to built a custom Drupal responsive theme using bootstrap framework.  • Worked on PHP programming, including OO, procedural, data structures and design patterns.  • Cross train with developers to understand and help automate weekly processes (using DevOpsmodel)  • Perform site creation using Drupal Core and contributed module capability to match customer requirements for functionality and design.  • Built a peer to peer and server based videoconferencing app using PHP and Javascript, OpenTok, Silex, Backbone.js, Composer, RabbitMQ, MySQL and deployed on Heroku.  • Development in PHP, Mysql, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Jquery, AJAX, REST web services in AWS cloud environment.  • Created RESTful services in a Drupal environment to hold and provide.  • Developed within a cross-functional team building applications across a variety of platforms, including Magento, Drupal and Wordpress.  • Worked closely with software developers and DevOps to debug software and system problems.  • Lead SCRUM team in Agile development environment, managing sprint development and QA tasks during the course of the project coordinating UI/WordPress Developers.  • Experience in open source E-commerce platforms like OpenCart, WooCommerce.  • Implemented new modules and themes into Drupal core to allow for rapid development.  • Develop and maintain a lead aggregation system for marketing leads on various verticals using the CakePHP framework on a LAMP stack  • Definition and develop of database ER-model, architecture and services with MySql, Api services and data driven website implementing LAMP stack environment.  • Design and develop web application functionalities with Object Oriented design, MVC Zend framework and LAMP, PHP library.  • Upgraded Drupal 7 to 8 and Updated Drupal core, modules and themes to the latest releases for existing Drupal version.  • Experienced in Drupal tool like View Tools, UberSearch, Drupal Theme Viewer to create powerful and flexible web applications.  • Used PHP, HTML and JavaScript webpage coding integrated with MySQL using Apache HTTP.  • Consulting on best practices for UI design, wordpress, plugins, SEO/Marketing, and building customer  base.  • Used all aspects of MySQL/PHP Programming (object oriented PHP), Zend Framework in LAMP environment.  • Successfully implemented new modules and themes into Drupal core to allow for rapid development.  • Used LAMP for hosting the word press application.  • Used on Linux platform (LAMP), Magento CMS, MySQL, REST web services, Git repository for this project.  • Worked on automotive content management system (CMS) which is built in PHP Sweet framework, used LAMP setup.  • Wrote complex MYSQL queries to reorganize the Drupal database for export and reimport into the WordPress  • Used Node Package Manager, Webpack to install the necessary packages from my app, used Gulp for Task Automation.  • Compile statistics and analytics reports into dynamic Excel/Drive spreadsheets using data from Google Analytics, WordPress.  • Implemented the caching mechanism in Hibernate to load data from PHPMYADMIN database.  • Experience in Wholesale inventory and order management via Logiwa API/WooCommerce.  • Establish enterprise website architecture for WordPress content management system within current infrastructure.  • Created several LAMP ,PHP library class wrappers for using system binaries (cross platform, OS X & Linux)  • Migrated a portion of the site and publishing system from ColdFusion+SQL on four off-site servers to PHP on two on-site LAMP servers.  • Code migration, db migration, and CentOS/Apache/PHP/MySQL installation and configuration.  • Built a custom module on Drupal for file management and custom module will have the functionality of Drupal 7 Media Browser plus module.  • Lead software developer. Responsible for developing and implementing software architecture for an enterprise level IoT lighting control system in the LAMP Stack with Laravel and Vue.js.  • Utilize the Bootstrap framework as well as multiple industry standard WordPress plugins, like ACF.  • Experience using Eclipse Java IDE and related tools in Agile/ Scrum based development settings.  • Responsible for website maintenance client websites on a daily basis involving HTML, CSS Drupal.  • Contract LAMP/WAMP stack application, offsite development and maintenance. PHP, HTML, CSS, Javascript, mixed with open source and third party imaging libraries. Eclipse/Mars, SVN, and MySQL databases.  • Utilized MySQL, PHPMyAdmin and WHM to create and edit database tables and alter server specifications.  • Working for DevOps Platform team responsible for specialization areas related to Chef for Cloud Automation.  • Development of custom modules using LAMP, PHP, AJAX, Javascript, Jquery, JSON.  • Built Websites and Optimzed Wordpress installations, Created numerous graphic design elements for numerous sectors.  • Used GIT as repository, Bitbucket, Github and Jenkins to build and deploy the project into Fuse server.  • Implementation of version control software SVN, CVS, GIT repositories. Involved in coding for JUnit Test cases    Background Skills:  PHP, Drupal, WordPress, Shopify, Drupal Core, Linux, LAMP stack, Symfony, DevOps, Magento, Laravel, Zend Framework, MySQL, API, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Angular.Js, Java, NoSQL, Oracle, MongoDB, MSSQL, Git, Github, Bitbucket, CVS, Rest, SOAP, JIRA, UML, Eclipse, Junit, Itext, Subversion SVN, Agile, Scrum. Senior Drupal Developer CA Technologies - Islandia, NY April 2013 to May 2016 CA Technologies operates as IT management software and solutions company offering customers secure access, secure information, and threat management. The Company manages and secures IT environments from mainframe and physical to virtual and cloud.  Responsibilities  • Performed system upgrades to Drupal websites, including Drupal core, contributed modules and custom theme upgrades  • Responsible for website maintenance client websites on a daily basis involving HTML, CSS and Drupal.  • Designed databases and structures for various Drupal sites. Drupal module development and customization  • Coding in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment.  • Develop web applications within a LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment.  • Migrated internal operational IT from a legacy mainframe to a custom web-based application platform using LAMP open-source tools.  • Developed within a cross-functional team building applications across a variety of platforms, including Magento, Drupal and Wordpress.  • Development of custom layered navigation in categories pages using LAMP, PHP, AJAX and Jquery.  • Worked on transformation of inheritance and out sourced UI by using Javascript, Angular js, Node Js and JQuery.  • Worked on an open-source CMSDrupal to build website using Drupal.  • Completed the data migration from old VisaLabs website to newly developed CMS by creating a custom Drupal Module.  • Worked directly with client to design, develop, and deploy a responsive websites that was built with PHP, Silex, Bootstrap, and JQuery.  • Development of custom modules using LAMP, PHP and XML.  • Performed automation and code deployments by using Build Automation DevOps tools Hudson/Jenkins and puppet.  • Development of an interactive section to allow customers see earrings and piercings with the help of a virtual ear using LAMP ,PHP / JS / AJAX / jQuery  • LAMP, PHP scripting to update catalog data and inventory data through a csv file.  • Develop custom responsive WordPress Themes using HTML, CSS, PHP, JavaScript, Sass and Grunt.  • PHP backend development of custom modules CRUD  • Integration with client's ERP system to update prices through a LAMP, PHP / SOAP Web service call.  • Experienced in working on DevOps/Agile operations process and tools area (Code review, unit test automation, Build & Release automation, Environment, Service, Incident and Change Management).  • Develop web application using LAMP, Magento, and PHP.  • LAMP, PHP Web Development for Back end scripting, Code refactoring, addition of new modules.  • Work on HUB module for implementing Single Sign on Service (SSO) by implementing Drupal Web Services.  • Worked as a team to setup new clients using various PHP frameworks such as Phalcon, Laravel, Zend, and Wordpress.  • Wrote test cases using JUnit testing framework and configured applications on Weblogic Server.  • Develop Custom Drupal Modules for implementing O Auth and RESTAPI.  • Designed interfaces in Photoshop, Flash, NotePad, Corel Paint Shop X2, Image Ready &Wordpress.  • Developed bug management system for internal usage, using MySQL, Bootstrap, Backbone.js  • Use Spring Data to extract data from Neo4j and MongoDB databases.  • Created Drupal modules for Activity log and Service Reporting System.  • As Lead Developer, edited, coded, developed and edited Front End & Back End of a new exclusive Wordpress web site for a client.  • Worked with Oracle RDBMS for writing complex queries and PL/SQL, SQL for Stored Procedures, Triggers and Events, for generating some important responses needed by the application.  • Used PHP to insert the queries and functions needed to build a working WordPress theme.  • Developed Contact Fill Application using Drupal and installation and integration of the Application online.  • Customizing HTML, CSS, Java script and Jquery scripts for UI/UX development according to client's needs  • Used all aspects of MYSQL/PHP Programming (object oriented PHP), in LAMP environment.  • Identifying and solving issues caused by plugins or third part APIs under PHP, MYSQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery Technology.  • Application maintenance and enhancement using PHP Framework, Object-Oriented Design Patterns (OOD) and MVC methodologies.  • Created Front end UI for Service Reporting System using WordPress & Ecommerce plugin.  • Customize product detail page so customers can buy the main product's extended warranty at the same time using PHP and AJAX.  • Customize Magento's PHP core checkout to equals the view as the USA website.  • Hand-code HTML pages from virtual design to live web pages (for Magento, WooCommerce, WordPress).  • Worked on Drupal web form and created custom form hooks to post and get data.  • Used Typescript as compiler to compile typescript code into JavaScript and used Typing's to manage Typescript definition and using GIT for version control.  • Agile/SCRUM was used as the project management methodology and JIRA & Confluence were the tools used to keep things in check.  • Provided more secure platform to host the websiste by using Wordpress Engine.  • Coding of custom WordPress theme and template files using HTML, CSS, PHP, and Bootstrap framework.  • Integrate Magento with SAP system to get live inventory data updates while customer is attempting to finish his order through a WS call using SOAP / PHP, LAMP.  • Implemented User interface (UI) entire application using HTML, CSS, Custom Tag Libraries, JavaScript, XML and XSLT.  • Experience with several CMS and web tools, such as WordPress, Drupal, Joomla, Moodle.    Background Skills:  PHP, Drupal, WordPress, Shopify, LAMP stack, Symfony, Magento, Laravel, Zend Framework, DevOps, CSS, HTML5, Javascript, Angular.Js, JDBC, Cassandra, NoSQL, MongoDB, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Web Services, REST, SOAP, Junit, Jira, GIT, Bitbucket, Subversion (SVN), Maven, Tomcat, Linux, UML, Eclipse Agile, Scrum. Senior PHP Web Developer Cisco Systems Inc - San Jose, CA October 2011 to March 2013 This is a web-based unified commerce application which enables customers and partners to create estimates/quotes for the renewal of current software subscriptions and technical services. This application provides rich interface to Cisco partners/customer to search multiple product lines, existing quotes/orders and contracts.    Responsibilities  • Worked on PHP, LAMP with MySQL migration project to make the system completely independent of the database being used. Handled client side validation using JavaScript PHP, LAMP.  • Worked on the MySQL migration project to make the system completely independent of the database being used. Used Spring IBatis to implement this.  • Developed Single Page applications using AngularJS using components, directives using Javascript, Backbone.js, and NodeJs. Used object oriented JavaScript Libraries including Various Plug-Ins like Angular.JS and Node JS.  • Development of front-end application using HTML, CSS, Javascript, Angular.JS, Dependency injection, Rx and Http modules with Node.js server for future evolutions.  • Worked on an open-source CMS JOOMLA, Drupal, WordPress to build website and powerful online applications. Contributed to organization of testing and quality improvement process (JIRA, Confluence).  • Designed and developed UI Search and results screens for SDWCS operators and other agencies using JSP, JavaScript, HTML and CSS. Responsible for creating efficient design and development of responsive UI using with  • Developed the presentation layer (UI) using JSP, Tag libraries, HTML, Flash, CSS and client validations using Node.Js and JavaScript. Implemented Presentation layer using JSP, Servlets , HTML  • OOP in PHP to extend or update functionalities. The project uses MySQL as the database.  • Extensive Development using Zend Framework by PHP in a LAMP environment.  • Developed PL/SQL store procedures for data migration and database upgrade from oracle using JDBC, MYSQL, SQL Server, DB2, Coherence, TOAD. Writing and Optimizing MySQL Queries and connect queries to PHP.  • Collaboration technology planning, social media adoption and metrics Web 2.0 strategy.  • Worked with the Database Schema design and normalization for database accessed by the procedural PHP pages. Developed many Drupal websites from scratch and from the implementation phase.  • Working experience in Web Services using REST, SOAP and WSDL, JSF, JSON, JQuery, JMS and Oracle coherence.  • Developing test suites in Selenium WebDriver (Java) with TestNG framework in Eclipse IDE  • Developed the PHP programming to configure logging for the application  • Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, Angular.js, Node.js, JavaScript, CSS and jQuery.  • Building the web Application from scratch using Linux, Apache, OOC (Object oriented code), WordPress, Shopify, LAMP stack, Drupal & PHP. Working on framework APIs like Struts, Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  • Designed Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams and Object Diagrams to model the detail design of the application using UML. Designed the flow of the project using Water Fall Model.  • Used Maven, Ant for developing build scripts and deploying the application onto WebLogic.  • Interfaced with the Oracle back-end using Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate Framework and config files.  • Contributed to organization of testing and quality improvement process (JIRA, Confluence).  • Executed project using waterfall model and practiced Agile Project Management & performed the Scrum  • Designing, developing and testing C/C++ and Java applications in SDLC as well as Agile environment.    Background Skills:  PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaSCript, JSP, JQUERY, Drupal, Wordpress, Dojo, AJAX, Servlet, Angular.js, Node.js, Ext.js, Java, J2EE, Apache AXIS2, MYSQL, Oracle, TOAD, SQL Server, Tomcat, GWT, REST, WSDL, Jira, Swing, Mercurial, Waterfall. Web Application Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC March 2010 to September 2011 Bank of America is one of the world's leading financial institutions, serving individual consumers, small and middle-market businesses and large corporations with a full range of banking, investing, asset management and other financial and risk management products and services.    Responsibilities  • Analyzed the requirements and provided inputs to the designer. Implemented Log4j to maintain system log.  • Designed Class diagrams, framework and developed using Factory, DAO, Singleton and MVC pattern.  • Developed the business tier using Core Java and the HTTP interfaces using Servlets.  • Application maintenance and enhancement using PHP Framework, Object-Oriented Design Patterns (OOD) and MVC methodologies.  • Involved in review of the design and helped in transforming the application to an optimized solution.  • Developed PHP routes and Authentication to extend the functionality of the server.  • Designed the helper classes for better data exchange between the MVC layers. JSP, HTML, Javascript, CSS and Ajax used for front end development. Worked with multithreading in synchronized environment.  • Designed and maintained Web forms and Banners using PHP and Laravel Framework.  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, JQuery, and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed the persistence tier using Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate framework.  • Used Websphere data sources for the database connection and accessed using JNDI names.  • Developed a Stored Procedures for regular cleaning of database. Implemented EJB (Session Beans) to create WAS Scheduler. Used Oracle as relational databases and created E-R diagrams for the database tables.  • Managed the functional and load testing by interacting with the testers and providing them the guidelines and deadlines for completion of work.    Background Skills:  HTML, CSS Jquery, Ajax, PHP, Sencha EXTJS, JSP, JSTL, Javascript, Servlet, JAVA, Hibernate, Struts, Weblogic, Apache CXF, Rest, AJAX, jQuery, JSP, Eclipse, Junit, Maven, ITEXT, GWT, Oracle, CRUD, PL/SQL, JDBC, UML, Software Developer AT&T - Dallas, TX February 2009 to February 2010 AT&T, Inc. is a holding company, which engages in the provision of telecommunications and digital entertainment services. It operates through the following business segments: Business Solutions, Entertainment Group, Consumer Mobility, and International.    Responsibilities  • Involved in all phases of SDLC. Interacting with the client and analyzing the requirements to help and understand the requirements. Designed Class diagrams, framework and developed Use case diagram and Sequence diagram.  • Application was designed and developed in Struts framework with Struts Tiles which is based on MVC  • Presentation tier was incorporated using JSP, HTML, CSS, AJAX and JavaScript.  • Use of Java Collection API and classes such as HashMap, Array List and Vectors.  • Developed web services using SOAP, WSDL and Apache Axis which helped communicating through different modules of the application. Incorporated XML Parser such as DOM.  • Implemented database transactions using Oracle, Java, JDBC, Hibernate ORM framework.  • MySql was used as RDBMS. Hands on experience creating E-R diagram, complex queries and sub queries.  • Used TOAD to create complex queries and sub queries. Built and deployed WAR file on JBoss application server. Used VSS for version control of project files.Implemented Log4j to maintain system log.  • Involved in QA support and deployed the application on Production server and supported for the real time issues. Developed application using MyEclipse for rapid development.  Background Skills:  HTML, CSS, Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, Weblogic, APACHE CXF, REST, JavaScript, Oracle, SQL, UML, Eclipse, JQuery, AJAX, ExtJS, Junit, MAVEN, report, ILOG, Agile, Web 2.0, SOA, Flex. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (9 years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years), ORACLE (9 years), SQL (9 years), ECLIPSE (9 years), php (8 years), Drupal (6 years), css (7 years) Additional Information TECH SKILLS EXPERIENCE SUMMARY    CORE TECH SKILLS  PHP, Drupal, WordPress, Shopify, LAMP stack, DevOps, Symfony, Magento, Laravel, Zend, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Angular.js, Node.js, Linux, OOC (Object oriented code)    ADDITIONAL TECH SKILLS  Java, J2EE, C, C++, NoSQL, Hadoop, Oracle, MongoDB, CRUD, PL/SQL, MSSQL, MySQL, JDBC, Agile, TDD, Scrum, REST, SOAP, UML, WebSphere, Tomcat, Eclipse