Lead Developer Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Developer - StayWell Company, LLC Harrisville, UT Since 2003, I've been building business, social, e-commerce and reporting applications for all types of industries including education, manufacturing, marketing, and healthcare. Currently my work focuses on HL7 FHIR (DSTU2, STU3, and R4) and Smart On FHIR specifications. I ensure intelligent and effective designs of RESTful API for access to data resources by a multitude of applications, productive management consoles for administrative and reporting tasks, and responsive front-end applications for everyday users. My expertise has also expanded to more leadership roles in managing developers, architecting new and current systems, and working with key stakeholders on strategic business requirements.    My expertise is C# using ASP.Net MVC and Web API. I have working knowledge of Java (Android, Struts, and Spring) and am currently working with AWS Lambda using Node JS. I'm an expert in relational databases with SQL Server, MySQL and PostgreSQL and am currently working with document databases in DynamoDB (AWS) and have previous experience with RavenDB. My front-end experience includes single page applications using AngularJS and React, JavaScript (jQuery, Angular, Underscore), HTML 5, and CSS3. I've also developed mobile applications for Android using Android Studio and iOS using the Cordova framework. Previously, I worked for several months with Microsoft Dynamics AX coding X++ and SSRS reports.    I love spending time with my family, camping, woodworking, models, and the odd electronics project using the Arduino controller and it's C language. Work Experience Lead Developer StayWell Company, LLC - Yardley, PA January 2016 to Present Remote)    Using Smart on FHIR technologies, Krames On FHIR integrates Krames patient education directly into a health system's electronic record and its workflows used by clinicians. From its inception, my team and I built Krames On FHIR from the ground up and have completed integrations for Houston Methodist Health System (Epic), North Mississippi Health Services (Epic), and CoxHealth (Cerner). Additional clients are working to onboard the system into their EHRs: Nebraska Medicine, Oklahoma Heart Hospital, and several others. We built Krames On FHIR to link StayWell's Krames patient education and patient's diagnosis codes to accurately suggest relevant education for the patient's conditions, medications, and procedures. Thus, I have extensive experience in Smart on FHIR API integrations with Epic, Cerner, and SmartHealthIT as well as experience in Agile methodologies, using Kanban and Scrum. Technologies use for Krames On FHIR include .NET/C#, ASP.Net Web API and MVC, Angular JS front end, SQL Server backend, Serverless for AWS integration, AWS Lambda functions in Node.js, React, and DynamoDB document database, TFS and git version control systems. Lead Developer MarketStar Corporation - Ogden, UT March 2013 to January 2016 Worked in an Agile Kanban environment with a team of great developers on an application utilizing the Jive corporate platform focusing on a Java plugin with Spring and Struts and a C# Web API backend. Our plugin was used by LG and other technology companies to train employees on various aspects of products and promotions. The application tracked progress of representatives on the trainings they watched and awarded various commendations for progress based on completion of levels and interactive participation in discussions. With the backend written in ASP.NET Web API 2 and MVC 5 with SQL Server and the front end Jive plugin using Jive standards with Java and the Spring and Struts frameworks the application was rewarding and provided excellent challenges to overcome. Along with that, we created the mobile application that integrates into the same software applications for iOS and Android using Xamarin. The version control system was TFS. Applications Developer Lifetime Products - Clearfield, UT October 2011 to March 2013 C# web developer on the ASP MVC framework for e-commerce, company and administrative websites. Along with other great team members, we maintained the lifetime.com website, it's admin for managing products, it's integration into FedEx and UPS APIs and also updated and maintained InfoPath forms system for Bill of Ladings. Also dabbled in X++ as a developer for Microsoft Dynamics AX implementation and was responsible for building customizations to meet business needs. Utilized TFS for version control and a modified version of Agile Kanban. Manager / Applications Developer STEDI, LLC - Logan, UT November 2008 to October 2011 Oversaw the daily operations of the company with 6 - 10 fantastic employees. Created, designed, and developed various web-based projects dealing with company operations, accounting, invoicing, e-commerce website, online training, customer online profiles, blogs, and newsletters focusing on ASP.NET, C#, SQL Server, along with ColdFusion and Flash. Oversaw realignment of the company website to increase SEO ranking to #1 position on Google for "substitute teacher training" (stedi.org). Reorganized and converted SQL Server database for more efficient and normalized data storage and transaction processing. Assist in managing customer issues and resolve in a positive manner. Corporate Technology Trainer Bridgerland Applied Technology College - Logan, UT November 2005 to November 2010 Part-time gig training adults by designing curriculum for ColdFusion I and II and Adobe Acrobat I corporate training classes. Support and train corporate customers in ColdFusion web development and SQL Server database design principles. Sr. Web Developer / Independent Contractor Mondo Power, Inc - Salt Lake City, UT July 2008 to October 2008 Built team collaboration tool using ColdFusion, MySQL, and AJAX technologies including bulletins, deadlines, tasks, team builder, file and file revision management, and calendar tools. Rebuilt and reorganized ColdFusion framework resulting in faster server response times and shorter development time frames. Incorporated scalable database design and SQL optimization to revise current database for improved MySQL performance. Lead Developer Dynamic Screening Solutions, Inc - Logan, UT July 2007 to July 2008 Coordinate development and maintenance of new and existing products resulting in preliminary designs of three new products. Design, build and test pre-release version of web-based online help system using AJAX, ColdFusion and SQL Server resulting in an easy access help system for customers and their clients. Increased customer satisfaction by utilizing new designs, code creations and testing of web interfaces, AJAX and ColdFusion components and web services as specified by customer requirements. Lead Developer Utah State University - Logan, UT February 2004 to July 2007 Installed and piloted ColdFusion/PostgreSQL system for Utah, Oregon, and Indiana Departments of Health resulting in contracts with Indiana and Utah. Provide for customer needs by building new features and providing routine maintenance in team environment for the Utah Department of Health and the Indiana State Department of Health. Increase market exposure by presenting to various organizations and public leaders on advantages and benefits of our web-based system. Web Developer / Database Administrator Carolee's Creations, LLC - North Logan, UT August 2003 to November 2005 Increased sales by 500% with redesign of SQL Server database backend and ColdFusion based e-commerce website. Built online message board to allow customers to post ideas and designs. Education Bachelor's Degree in Business Information Systems in Electronic Commerce and Management Information Systems Utah State University May 2004 Skills SQL SERVER, SQL, AJAX, ASP, CSS, Angular, Java, Node, Angularjs Additional Information Skills Overview  C#, ASP.NET MVC, ASP.NET Web API, SQL Server, FHIR, HL7, TFS, git, Angular, Node.js, JavaScript, DynamoDB, Java, Spring, Struts, jQuery, HTML, CSS, SQL, AJAX, SOAP, REST