Independent Consultant Independent Consultant Senior Web Designer West Sacramento, CA Senior Web Designer & Digital Marketing Maven looking for opportunities with a reasonable commute from Mountain View or Sacramento. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Independent Consultant Present As an independent consultant I have worked with clients creating web site designs and improvements of various scale. This work has included responsive web site design, UX design, SharePoint design, WordPress design/implementation, social media integration, and usability reviews. Lead Web Designer & Developer Allroads Digital Marketing & Consulting - McClellan, CA September 2016 to July 2019 At this position, I was the primary point of contact for the Allroads Digital Marketing Division. During my time at Allroads they doubled their monthly revenue and number of clients. My numerous responsibilities include web design, graphic design, prototyping, custom themed WordPress implementation, proposal authoring, Google Analytics reporting, and SEO implementation. I have also helped to brand new businesses, provided photography services, and implemented Google Ads campaigns. All site designs involve Photoshop content creation, HTML/CSS authoring, SEO, and responsive designs. Contract Web Designer Franklin Templeton Investments March 2015 to May 2016 As an onsite contractor for Franklin Templeton I worked in the Collaborative Applications Group on various reporting, collaboration, communication, and gateway projects. All projects were running Microsoft SharePoint services and implementations ranged from completely custom to leveraging as much out-of-the-box functionality as possible. All of the design concepts were done with responsive HTML/CSS and often implemented with jQuery interactions. Director, Online Design IDG Consumer & SMB (PCWorld, Macworld, and TechHive) October 2009 to November 2014 In this position, I directed the online design and user interface team for PCWorld, Macworld and TechHive. The web sites served an audience of nearly 24 million unique visitors per month and 81 million page views per month. During my tenure, we tripled our social networking followers and our mobile traffic. Under my leadership, web designers, user interface developers, and web producers designed web sites, built iOS apps, developed brands, designed a custom content management system, and created advertising media for leading technology brands. Working with Mule Design Studio, we totally redesigned all of our web properties. The new web sites are fully responsive HTML5, and put a premium on the editorial content while affirming the brand voice. Contract Web Designer & Developer Hitachi Data Systems May 2009 to July 2009 As an on-site contractor in web design and development for Hitachi Data Systems, my primary responsibility involved the migration of the support portal to a Joomla-based framework. Following the business requirements document and the Hitachi Global Web Site Design guidelines, I developed a static HTML mock-up of the new portal. Collaborating with the in-house development team, I helped create custom Joomla templates, modules and components to integrate the requirements with the design mock-up. Web Designer & Developer CRC Health Group January 2008 to April 2009 CRC Health Group is the largest provider of specialized behavioral health care services in the U.S. CRC Health Group treats more than 30,000 people with drug and alcohol addiction, learning differences, weight management issues, eating disorders, and other behavioral issues each day. CRC Health Group has an extensive network of web sites for informational and marketing purposes with more than 200 unique domains. These sites range from pay-per-click micro sites to content-heavy resource sites that contain more than 8,000 pages. My job as Web Designer and Developer was to design, code interfaces, and migrate/populate the web sites with content. All development was done using tableless layouts and open source LAMP technologies. SEO optimization was a key factor in every web site. CRC Health group maintains hundreds of top 10 organic search term placements on search engines such as Google, Yahoo and MSN. Web Designer & Developer The George E. Brown, Jr. Network for Earthquake Engineering Simulation August 2005 to December 2007 The National Science Foundation created the George E. Brown, Jr. Network for Earthquake Engineering Simulation (NEES) to improve our understanding of earthquakes and their effects. My primary role as Web Designer and Developer was to create a more dynamic and professional-looking web site. This was accomplished by updating the overall design, developing database-driven content and calendars, adding RSS feeds for syndication, and creating engaging flash animations and improved navigational structure. Responsibilities included web site design, dynamic and static programming of the web site, corporate branding including collateral, database administration, desktop support, network administration, and VOIP system support. Web Designer and Developer Mondavi Center for the Performing Arts March 2004 to August 2005 One of the largest performing arts presenting programs on the west coast, UC Davis's Mondavi Center for the Performing Arts hosts more than 70 performances each year and has an annual budget of more than 3 million dollars. As Web Designer and Developer for Mondavi Center, my responsibilities included web site design for the series, dynamic and static programming of the web site, e-mail marketing, database administration, photography, multimedia creation, and video editing. Web Designer EMF Broadcasting October 2001 to March 2004 EMF Broadcasting owns the 5th and 30th most listened to internet music streams in the world. As Web Designer for all EMF Broadcasting web properties, my responsibilities included web site redesigns, site maintenance, feature enhancements, information architecture and front-end web programming. Additional responsibilities included photography, magazine ad design, and intranet content updates. User Interface Engineer Lutris Technologies, Inc March 2000 to April 2001 Lutris Technologies, Inc. was an open source software and services company that worked with such companies as Kinko's, Roxio and Customatix. In my capacity as a User Interface Engineer, I worked in the consulting division's creative department. My responsibilities included web page development using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Flash and content management for several large client and internal web projects. I also designed and developed web banners, technical diagrams, marketing collateral, and tradeshow signs. Education Bachelor of Arts in Art University of California - Santa Cruz, CA 1997 Skills Photoshop (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Wireframes (10+ years), Illustrator (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Bootstrap (3 years), Axure (2 years), JQuery (3 years), Sass (2 years), WordPress (4 years), Dreamweaver (7 years), SharePoint (2 years), Google Adwords (1 year), Google Analytics (5 years), Wordpress (4 years) Links https://skycollins.com Assessments Search Engine Optimization — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vizm3hp9ync37azj Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.