Web Designer/ Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> Designer/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Developer Nixa, MO Front-End Web Developer and hobbyist Game Developer with a strong ability to self-teach whatever skills are necessary to solve problems and complete goals. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Designer/ Developer American National Insurance Company October 2008 to Present Responsibilities:  • Maintain public websites and internal agent portal site.  • Build new pages and features for public and internal websites.  • Implement SEO enhancements to public websites  • Create landing pages and microsites for use in Marketing campaigns.  • Assist with technical support of internal agent portal website.  • Manage and train agent portal content contributors from departments across the company.  • Occasionally design website promo graphics and assets.    Accomplishments:  • Increased user traffic to public websites year after year.  • Successfully redesigned the agent portal and worked with an outside vendor to convert it to the IBM WCM platform.  • Increased agent satisfaction with internal website.  • Maintained a high level of performance and positive attitude in a very fast paced environment that has undergone many, many changes during my employment.    My position started in the Marketing department of American National, where I was responsible for maintaining and building new pages for the public websites and an internal portal website used by American National insurance agents. I was also responsible for building landing pages and microsites for various products the company was promoting via Marketing campaigns. I was put in charge of a complete redesign of the internal agent site, which completed successfully. The internal agent portal then moved under the Sales and Agency division of the company. I was selected to be the point person for maintaining the agent portal website, continuing to improve it with new features and functionality, and to manage the content contributors from various departments that were responsible for content on their area of the website. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Missouri State University-Springfield - Springfield, MO August 2004 to May 2008 Skills HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), JQuery (9 years), Web Content Management (IBM WCM) (3 years), Web Content Management (Oracle) (6 years), Unity/C# (1 year), Mailchimp (5 years), PHP (2 years), React (Less than 1 year), Wordpress (2 years), Photoshop (3 years), HTML 5 (10+ years) Additional Information I just wanted to write a little about me. I am a Christian man with a wonderful wife and family. Not perfect, but always good. I volunteer when I can, although I will admit my wife is better at that than I am. I'm laid back and easy to get along with. Honesty and transparency are a big deal to me. I've found that those two things just make things work better. I've had the privilege and opportunity to learn a lot over my years of college and employment at American National, but I'd say my best skill is not something I've learned, but in my ability to learn. I went to college and learned to code in Java, but landed my first job as a front-end designer/ developer in the Marketing department at an insurance company. Go figure. I self-taught myself the vast majority of the skills I have listed on my resume with books, online classes, a little bit of Google, and a lot of tinkering. Outside of my normal work duties, I do hobbyist game development with two of my best friends - both of whom I met at American National. I have taught myself to develop games using C# and the Unity game engine over the last year, and we are a couple months from releasing our first game. We are also converting our website over to a WordPress blog, which should be ready soon. Currently, I'm digging into the React JavaScript library, and hope to use that in future projects.