Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Pikeville, NC Experienced Developer seeking the opportunity to bring knowledge of programming, graphical design, media, website (development and maintenance) while encouraging creative thinking, lateral and problem solving. Work Experience Web Developer TBR Software Solutions - Goldsboro, NC 2008 to 2019 • Work collaboratively with clients and in-house agency teams to provide rapid, robust and client-acclaimed front- and back-end web development Using SQL embedded code.  • Optimized user experience, e-commerce systems, search engine ranking and optimization rubics, brand positioning and related metrics.  • Designed User Interface and developed responsive web applications for in-house and out-bound use with HTML, CSS.  • Develop databases that support web applications, web sites and information caches  • Provide clear, detailed descriptions of web site specifications such as product features, activities, software, communication protocols, programming languages, and operating systems software and hardware.  • Incorporate technical considerations into web site design plans, such as budgets, equipment, performance requirements, or legal issues including accessibility and privacy.  • Write supporting code for web applications or web sites and routed traffic utilizing HTML, PHP, ASP.NET Web Developer R.E.G.I - New York, NY 2003 to 2008 Reviewed and integrated interactive features into existing web applications  • Write, design or edit web page content or direct others producing content.  • Designed, built or maintained web sites, templates and database systems using authoring or scripting languages, content creation tools, management tools, and digital media.  • Evaluate code to ensure that it is valid, is properly structured, meets industry standards and is compatible with browsers, devices, or operating systems.  • Worked with graphic designers in creating animations  • Handled website registration for various search engines  • Develop web site maps, application models, image templates, or page templates that meet project goals, user needs, or industry standards. Verizon Wireless - Orangeburg, NY 2000 to 2003 • Generated reports for various departments using Microsoft Excel  • Utilized VLOOKUP to pull vital information from spreadsheets  • Confer with management or development teams to prioritize needs, resolve conflicts, develop content criteria, or choose solutions.  • Created Sales Reports with monthly forecasting via pivot table Member Loan Processor New York Telephone Employees Federal Credit Union February 1985 to July 1989 Processed Member submissions for auto, Personal loans. Handled member deposits and withdrawals and Money- Market accounts. Obtained credit reports to facilitate loans. Education B.S. in Information Technology/Computer Sciences University of Penn State 2017 to Present Certification Wake Technical Community College July 2017 to October 2017 Associates Degree in Computer Programming Business Management College of Westchester - White Plains, NY 2000 to 2002 Skills ASP, ASPX, DREAMWEAVER, ASP.NET, MICROSOFT VISUAL STUDIO, VISUAL STUDIO, C#, C++, JAVASCRIPT, WCF, PHP, VISUAL BASIC, DATABASE, SQL, HTML5, JAVA, FLASH, PIVOT TABLES, SEO, PROBLEM SOLVING