Data Engineer III Data Engineer III Data Developer II - Santander Consumer USA Hackensack, NJ Position as a Database developer for over 15 years in the Management Information System sector. Seeking to obtain an employment in a dynamic organization where my previous experiences and abilities can be effectively utilized  TECHNOLOGY SUMMARY  Languages  SQL, TSQL, PL/SQL, HTML, XML, CSS, Java, JavaScript, AJAX, ASP, Assembly, C/C++, ProC, VB Script, ECMA Scrip, Command Script, Perl, Visual Basic, FLEX, Python, PowerShell    Systems MS-SQL, MySQL, Oracle, Informix, Sybase, C-ISAM, Windows, Linux, UNIX, WebLogic, WebSphere, JBOSS, Tomcat, TCP/IP, Control-M  Tools Control-M, BCP, Toad, ERWin, JBuilder, eclipse, iReport, FLEX Builder Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Engineer III Santander Consumer USA - Dallas, TX April 2015 to Present An engineer on the Enterprise Data Services team, the Data Engineer III is responsible for designing, developing, and maintaining automated data movement solutions. The Data Engineer III understands business fundamentals within business sector assigned team supports and ensures development standards are maintained and best practices in development are demonstrated.  • Develop technical solutions which may involve a variety of data development tools, preferably SQL Server and Informatica.  • Follows the company’s required standards and guidelines regarding the use of the tools including technical documentation.  • Develops simple, efficient and manageable automated solutions for simple to moderately complex database projects.  • Analyzes and transforms business requirements into automated solutions per development standards.  • Design, develop, test and support from SQL stored procedures, views, Informatica workflows, Control-M flows or script objects.  • Researches and resolves data issues identified by business users, IT operations, or partners.  • Executes unit and system test scripts, analyzes, captures and publishes test results.  • On-Call rotation to support Data Engineering solutions. Sr. IT/Database Developer / DBA / Manager Hyundai Digitech INC April 2008 to April 2015 Responsible for the design, development, administration and production support of MS SQL Server Databases for the company. Specific duties include:  • Writing T-SQL Queries, Dynamic-queries, sub-queries and complex joins for generating Complex Stored Procedures, Triggers, User-defined Functions, Views and Cursors.  • Supported team in resolving T-SQL related issues and Proficiency in creating different types of reports such as Cross-Tab, Conditional\ Top N, Summary, Form and Sub reports, and formatting them.  • Provides production support and performance tuning for production databases. Conducts performance tuning using Performance Monitor, SQL Profiler, SQL Query Analyzer and Index tuning wizards.  • Developing custom database designs including table design, indexes and attributes.  • Wrote parameterized queries, drill through reports and formatted reports  • Developed custom reporting to meet user business needs.  • Create processes for database backups, disaster recovery and business continuity. Worked as lead Database manager/ developer for the company's all database needs  • Developed SQL and database stored procedures for data reporting  • Utilized JAVA and FLEX to develop web based MIS (Management Information Systems)  • Utilized MS-Access to develop frontend MIS connect to database server  • Utilized JAVA and connect to PayPal to develop web based end user hand phone out of warranty request site  • Utilized Python script to develop EDI (Electronic data interchange)  • Managed network system and equipment, e-mail server, and all IT related request include anti-virus Developer Access Commerce January 2007 to June 2007 • Programmed with combination of AJAX, HTML, and JavaScript to developed US version of Chameleon Channel Selling AJAX based User Interface used for E-Commerce database to handle customized orders  • Worked with iReport to develop sales proposal automation programs for clients  • Developed XML based data parser for reporting program. Lead Developer Shinwoo Information System Co., Ltd January 2000 to April 2006 • Developed database stored procedures for Bank system that handled more than 1,000,000,000 records  • Utilized SQL and JAVA (Servlet, JSP, EJB) to develop web based MIS (Management Information Systems) and CRM  • Designed and developed mobile digital TV EPG System for SK Telecom and KT Telecom  • Worked on WAP development team to create mobile location finding system  • Worked on team that developed master plans for Mobile web browser service  • Developed new mobile browser based service  • Utilized new browser function, ECMAScript, plug-in, and etc., to develop mobile game sites Developer / Web master Munhwa Information System Co., Ltd - Seoul, KR August 1999 to December 1999 • Responsible for managing company's server which included internal and external (Client Website)  • Developed WebZine (Internet Newspaper E-Commerce site) using ASP  • Worked as lead DBA for the company's website Developer / Web master Whittman-Hart, Inc - Chicago, IL January 1999 to August 1999 • Worked as a Webmaster to develop, update and support the internal and external website using HTML, PL/SQL and JavaScript  • Utilized Perl Script to develop web forms which worked as a recruiting system  • Consolidate applicants information using the MS-Access Web master AMRS Computer Consulting Inc - Chicago, IL August 1998 to January 1999 • Used ASP to create and update web pages for the Korean community website  • Technical support for about 300 users on both hardware and software related issues Education BS in Computer Science Northeastern Illinois University May 2006 to August 2007 computer Science University of Illinois at Chicago - Chicago, IL January 1998 to June 1999 computer Science Georgia Southern University January 1995 to December 1997