Design Integrator Design Integrator Web Developer - Design Funedikly Seattle, WA Gain a job in the field of interactive design and development. With ever evolving technology it is my goal to stay at the forefront of my field. To view examples of my work, please visit http://funedikly.com. Work Experience Design Integrator Microsoft - Seattle, WA May 2015 to Present Web and Flash Developer Design Funedikly - Seattle, WA September 2004 to Present Contract employment with international and local companies.  ? Custom Actionscript, HTML and CSS paired with Javascript, PHP and similar browser based languages.    ? Worked on several projects for both local and international clients.  ? Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan  ? Steelcase  ? Amway  ? DOW Chemical  ? Y2 Creative  ? K-Motion Design  ? ionPost  ? Owl Sight Intentions Sr Web Developer CQL - Grand Rapids, MI September 2014 to May 2015 Design Dev Xbox of Microsoft - Redmond, WA September 2013 to September 2014 Responsibilities  Aid and give voice in meetings, help with UX and Interaction design. Develop in multiple environments for prototyping as well as live environments.    Accomplishments  Xbox.com - UX prototyping for web  Updating (dot)com for a responsive interface  UX and UI prototypes that were rolled into the production environment    Xbox Developer Portal ( XDP )  UX design and prototyping for a complete redesign of the developer portal  Updates and integration of new workflows into the live XDP    Console Design Team  UX Prototyping of an update of the Xbox Operating System.    Skills Used  HTML/5  CSS/3 / LessCSS  ActionScript3  UX Design  JavaScript/JQuery  PHP  entry level .NET  UI Design Sr. Web Developer Stevens Advertising - Grand Rapids, MI July 2012 to September 2013 ? As a senior member of the web team I have sought out and utilized new web technology. This has streamlined the work process and increased our capabilities.  ? I build sites in both open source content management systems as well as corporate level environments depending on the clients individual needs.  ? Sites are built in a team environment from beginning to completion. As a member of that team I start by researching the needs of the client, building the architecture of the site, designing the UX for the site as a whole. After design approval I continue with database architecture, custom coded interactions, and pixel perfect CSS.  ? Mentorship and growth of junior staff. Interactive Developer, UI/UX Specialist Tiger Studio - Zeeland, MI June 2011 to May 2012 ? Build prototype solutions for clients utilizing Adobe Flash and Flex to create complex replicas of integrated software for user testing.  ? Researched, developed and constructed a large format multi touch surface. Development of AIR applications to run in that environment.  ? Build mobile applications for both client and internal use.  ? Work with clients, creative teams and software engineers to design and build UX wireframes for websites, desktop applications, mobile applications and integrated hardware. Flash Developer & UX Support Johnson Controls - Holland, MI May 2010 to June 2011 ? Build interactive flash prototypes for user testing.  ? Aid in constructing new and innovative UX designs for desktop, mobile and integrated technologies.  ? Worked on three projects  ? Smart Building - An integrated application that utilized all of the building management and corporate programs from Johnson Controls. I would allow a user to interact with a single applications rather than over twelve individual applications across multiple platforms.  ? Y1 & K2 - GMC's in dash cluster. In this project I constructed a fully operational desktop version of the proposed cluster for user testing. in an Agile process the team designed both the visual component as well as the user experience from startup to shutdown.  ? Smart Car iPad app - An application that paired with a server built into a car that remotely controlled servos, lights, dynamic window tinting and other parts of the vehicle for demonstrations by Johnson Controls. Multimedia Developer Waterfall Productions - Grand Rapids, MI October 2006 to May 2009 ? Design and development of customizable communications, marketing and training products for Web, CD-ROM and DVD.  ? Conceptualize web navigation hierarchy/site map, wireframe composition as well as user interaction.  ? Image optimization and video compression for web use in HTML and Flash.  ? Meet with internal and external project managers, external content companies and clients to meet deadlines.  ? Link client databases to user-driven websites.  ? Photo correction and image manipulation in Adobe Photoshop.  ? Illustration with Adobe Illustrator.  ? Video animation with Adobe After Effects and video editing with Avid Media Composer.  ? Design and ActionScript 2.0 with Adobe Flash CS 4 including debugging, error tracking & correction.  ? Fluent in HTML and CSS as well as cross browser integration.  ? Updating content using corporate training CMS as well as general public marketing CMS.  ? User interface design for both HTML and Flash interaction.  ? Research and implementation of new types of development tools.  ? Troubleshooting computer hardware/software issues with Windows based computers and Mac. Education BFA in Visual Communications & Multi Media Kendall College of Art and Design - Grand Rapids, MI 2002 to January 2007 Rockford High School - Rockford, MI 1999 to May 2002 Skills Javascript (7 years), User Experience Design (10+ years), User Interface Design (10+ years), PHP (7 years), Photoshop (10+ years), HTML 5 (6 years), HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), CSS3 (6 years), Illustrator (10+ years) Links http://funedikly.com Certifications/Licenses Driver's License