Hybrid Smartphone App Developer Hybrid Smartphone App <span class="hl">Developer</span> Hybrid Smartphone App Developer - Libya Pages IT. (Remotely) Tampa, FL More than 10 years programming, website and application development experience and more than 2 years in building a hybrid smartphone apps. I have developed and customized some multi-language interface (RTL) websites, applications and smartphone apps, as well as mange and resolve websites, hosting and domain issues. My goal is to find qualified job that suite and gives me the opportunity to show my skills and experience. Moreover, to improve my knowledge and skills. Work Experience Hybrid Smartphone App Developer Libya Pages IT. (Remotely) April 2017 to Present Developing a hybrid smartphone app for blood donation organization in Libya. (As volunteer job)  • Design colorful interface with four tabs using Ionic 2 framework, and customizing it with amazing non-standard font and RTL direction.  • Implement the app to provide (offline) access by using local SQLite database, which updated at the first time ever running and/or at each time the app started (if this option enabled by the settings). Although the app provided a button for this function as needed.  • Updating local SQLite database done through API, this API contact and access online MySQL database using http request, then send SQL query using PHP as a back end. Query results will send back as JSON format to feed the local SQLite database. Since each http request will take different time, therefor I used Angular 2 promises in order to offer asynchronous manner.  • Implement lookup form using (Ionic 2 component, Angular 2 and Type Script) to select blood type and city, and then grab related donors' information as needed and show them as searchable list.  • Implement filters through Angular 2 pipes to provide result search option as needed. And also provide slide feature to show details, call or send SMS to the donor.  • Implement an add data form to add new blood donor to the online MySQL database directly.  • Implement setting tab to enable/disable features, as well as to provide login area for donors to access their online accounts and make some changes as needed.  • Design splash and icon via Photoshop and use Ionic 2 framework to generate splashes and icons for all screen sizes.  • Customize config.xml file as needed.  • Issuing developer certifications and provisioning profiles for both iOS and Android.  • Generate .ipa and .apk files through Ionic 2 framework.  • Create Apple and Android developer account, and submit the generated files to Apple store and Google Play store. Web Developer at Libya Pages IT Libya Pages IT. (Remotely) March 2017 to Present Customizing X-Cart shopping system to make it Fully RTL supported.  • Installing X-Cart 5.x and setup the online store.  • Customizing CSS file in order to make it RTL supported using direction, text align and floating.  • Create module to apply new CSS file as override style sheet.  • Customize some .twig files to offer fully RTL support. Web Hosting Specialist and Website Developer Libya Pages IT February 2003 to Present • Website designer using multiple languages and tools such as: HTML, HTML5, CSS and it's framework, PHP, MySQL, JavaScript, Photoshop, Flash and more.  • Managing dedicated web servers, VPS and Sheared hosting resellers.  • Registering, renewal and transfer TLDs through ENom.  • Registering, renewal and transfer cc TLDs (.LY domains) through LTT.  • Fix bugs and resolve hosting and email issues. Event Reminder App, Angular-6-and-Firebase October 2018 to December 2018 This app was developed for training purposes. The app able to add, manage and send reminders of events (notification), the app has several features and functions, and it was developed using Angular 6 and Firebase.  • Adding new events with GPS location and start/end date and time.  • Handling all kind of input errors.  • Show notifications for app operations and actions.  • Show event details such as: duration and GPS location on the map.  • Update (Going/Not Going) status for all events.  • Managing three different status (Happening Now - Coming - Completed) according to event date/time.  • Delete specific events or all events together after showing confirmation message.  • Apply three different Angular 6 animations.  • Show loading spinner while pulling the events information.  • Show/Hide events.  • Send email reminders.  • Add event details to these calendars apps: iCalender, Google, Yahoo and Outlook.  • Apply searching and filtering to get certain events.  • Disable search, filter and delete, if there are no events.  • Show welcome message, if there are no events.  • Located on Github: https://github.com/libyapages/Event-Reminder-App---Angular-6-and-Firebase Developer at Libya Pages IT. (Remotely) WordPress May 2016 to December 2016 Developing more than 10 different WordPress themes as new project for Libya Pages IT.  • Developing and customizing 10+ different modern themes using WordPress.  • All the themes are responsive and RTL supported.  • Each theme has 2+ different colors or skins.  • Each theme has 4 pages with ability to increase them as needed. Hybrid Smartphone App Developer Armchem International Corporation - Fort Lauderdale, FL November 2015 to October 2016 Developing a hybrid smartphone app for sales person to Armchem International Corporation, Fort Lauderdale, Florida - USA.  • Design interface with two main tabs using Ionic 1 framework.  • Implement dashboard accessible through login interface, which allow sales person users only to log in.  • Implement more than six different services to show specific information according to the level of the user, using HTML5, Ionic 1 components, JavaScript and AngularJS.  • Implement multiple functions to filter and sort information by using AngularJS filters.  • Access online SQL Server database, and apply complicated SQL queries to grab required information as needed. All of that has done through PHP as a back end, and then deliver back the information as JSON format.  • Design splash and icon through Photoshop, and use Ionic framework to generate splashes and icons for all different screen sizes.  • Issuing certifications and provisioning profiles for both iOS and Android.  • Customize config.xml file as needed.  • Generate .ipa and .apk files through Phone Gap build.  • Create new Apple and Android developer account, and submit the generated files to Apple store and Google Play store.  • Fix bugs and upgrade the app versions as needed. Web Application Developer Estime Prestige Cab Company - Melbourne, FL March 2015 to December 2015 Developing a web application for Estime Prestige Cab which is a taxi company located in Melbourne - Florida.  • Analysis and specifying the requirements of the taxi company by interviewing and investigating similar web apps.  • Design the interfaces through HTML, CSS Semantic UI, Photoshop, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Build all system functions using PHP, with MySQL as a data source for the system.  • Build a reservation process which the clients could make online reservation, and according to that the driver would receive a notification through his email.  • Design multiple types of reports and offer them in HTML format.  • Test the system and fix bugs, and provide tech support for six months after delivering the system. Hybrid Smartphone App Developer Libya Pages IT. (Remotely) October 2014 to January 2015 Developing a hybrid smartphone app for package delivering system for local company in Libya.  • Design basic interface with three tabs using Ionic 1 framework.  • Implement lookup function to check and view packages status using JavaScript and Angular JS.  • Contact online MySQL database to inquire about packages status through PHP as a back end, and deliver data back as JSON format.  • Design splash and icon via Photoshop and use Ionic framework to generate splashes and icons for all screen sizes.  • Issuing certifications and provisioning profiles for both iOS and Android.  • Generate .ipa and .apk files through Phone Gap build.  • Create Apple and Android developer account, and submit the generated files to Apple store and Google Play store. Web Application Developer at Libya Pages IT Libya Pages IT. (Remotely) January 2014 to October 2014 Remotely) January 2014 - October 2014  Design and implement package delivering system for local company in Libya.  • Leading a team to analysis and specifying the requirements of how to deliver packages in a region does not have mailing address system such as Libya.  • Design a responsive web application interface using HTML, CSS Bootstrap, Font Awesome and JavaScript.  • Implementing system functions using PHP, and MySQL as a data source.  • Providing import feature to insert and/or update data automatically through Excel files.  • Design multiple types of reports and offer them in HTML, XML, CVS and PDF format.  • Test the system and fix bugs, and provide tech support for one year as well. Web Developer Libya Pages IT February 2012 to April 2012 Install and Customize WHMCS billing system to make it Fully RTL supported.  • Install and integrate WHMCS 6.x with Libya Pages IT website.  • Customizing multiple CSS files in order to make it RTL supported using direction, text align and floating.  • Create new skin to apply new CSS files as override style sheet.  • Customize multiple .tpl files to offer fully RTL support.  • Customize PDF generated tool in order to add some features and re-organize the PDF files as requested. Web Application Developer Libya Pages IT February 2010 to October 2011 Design and implement an online data management system for regional organization located in four countries: Libya, Egypt, Sudan and Chad.  • Analysis and specifying the requirements of data management system by interviewing and investigating the previous system functions.  • Design the interfaces (in there languages: English, French and Arabic), through HTML, CSS, Photoshop, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Build all system functions using PHP and Ajax, with MySQL as a data source for the system.  • Integrate the system with Google maps through Google Maps API's, and also with GIS API's  • Design multiple types of reports and offer them in HTML, XML, Word, Excel, KML and PDF.  • Purchase and setup dedicated web server, creating hosting plan and upload the system.  • Perform all kinds of testing and provide tech support for two years later. Education Master's of Science in Computer in Computer Academy of Graduate Studies - Tripoli, LY 2011 Bachelor's of Science in Computer in Computer Az Zawiya University 2001 Skills Git, Html, Bootstrap, Ionic, Json, Php, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, Ajax, Asp, Css, Asp.net, Sass, Ui, Java, jquery, Open source, Cms, Linux, Javascript, Angular Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/hakim-elkharbash https://github.com/libyapages Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS  Languages & Development Tools:  • Very good in: PHP, Java Script, MySQL, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Semantic UI, Angular, CMS WordPress, customizing websites and applications interface to RTL (Right to left) languages and also building a hybrid smartphone app using Ionic framework.  • Familiar with: Ajax, JQuery, JSON, PHP template programming (Smarty, Twig), Sass, ASP.Net, SQL, SQL Server, SEO, Git, Dedicated servers, VPS and CPanel.    Software:  • Design Tools: Photoshop, good knowledge with animations, video and audio editing.  • Open Source Tools: Customizing web hosting billing solutions ( WHMCS), as well as shopping cart software (X-Cart 5)  • Platforms: Windows 7 and 10. Good knowledge with (Mac and Linux).