Web Developer / I.T. Consultant <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> / I.T. Consultant Web Developer / I.T. Consultant - Hamilton Multimedia, LLC Staten Island, NY Business Administration graduate with multimedia, multiplatform application development and I.T. experience. Varied skill set from mobile & web application design & development, data application management & security, social media networking and management, network analysis, photography and video production. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer / I.T. Consultant Hamilton Multimedia, LLC - Bronx, NY September 2013 to Present Write code for web app elements with React & React Native frameworks and JavaScript,  • Develop web and mobile apps for clients using React Frameworks with REST architecture  • Edit and convert footage to various formats using Adobe Premier CC and After Effects CC  • Maintain company website design and cyber security  • Manage content management system using JavaScript, PHP7 and CSS  • Test, Build and Deploy software using CI/CD best practices and automated tools Web Developer / I.T. Consultant Ocean 11 Marketing Group, LLC - Brooklyn, NY September 2017 to March 2018 • Develop, update and secure company website using React framework developed with JavaScript, PHP7, HTML 5, CSS 3 and MySQL  • Develop, design and distribute customer's newsletters using mass email distribution tools  • Publish company marketing materials, photos and videos to their website using JavaScript and PHP content delivery system tools Web Developer / I.T. Consultant Black and Latino Film.com - New York, NY December 2016 to August 2017 Developed company webapps using React framework HTML5, CSS3, PHP5 and JavaScript  ? Managed client's content management system using Joomla 3.5  ? Edited photos for use on client's web site using Adobe Photoshop CS6 and Adobe Photoshop Lightroom 5 Web Developer / I.T. Consultant Von's World Studio, LLC - Jersey City, NJ February 2014 to December 2016 Developed company website and webapps with React framework and JavaScript.  ? Worked on CSS to design the navigation, gradient background and used other style properties to enhance the look of the web page.  • Used ReactJS to implement rich functions in various pages: form validation, crud, grid list, search, sort, pagination, multi-selection, tags-input, advanced/custom directives, authentication, unit tests, etc. Web Developer / Consultant Modica Associates, Inc - Brooklyn, NY September 2011 to February 2014 Designed client's web site layout using Adobe Dreamweaver 5.5 and Photoshop 5.1  ? Wrote code in HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript/jQuery and PHP 5.3.2 for layout, content, links and web forms.  ? Posted social networking updates to Facebook, Twitter, and various networking sites.  ? Implemented website within budget and constrained time frame.  ? Trained customer how to access & update the website using FTP protocols.  ? Managed client's content management system using Wordpress Accounts Receivable Bookkeeper Vertical Parking Group, LLC - New York, NY December 2010 to August 2011 Generated Logs and charts using Adobe PDF files created with Adobe Acrobat Suite  ? Accurately logged, acquired and generated reports for accounts receivables using  ? Microsoft Office 2010 applications: MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Access  ? Managed, Maintained & Repaired automated parking computer systems and software Market Research Intern Mosholu Preservation Corporation - Bronx, NY October 2008 to December 2010 Developed Data Analytics tools using JavaScript, PHP and logged data on demographics and buying habits of over 200 customers  ? Identified potential markets and factors affecting product demand  ? Measured and assessed customer and employee satisfaction  ? Gathered and analyzed data prices, sales, and methods of marketing and distribution for 10-15 competitors Customer Field Representative Consolidated Edison Company of New York - Bronx, NY March 2005 to September 2008 Read 600+ electric, gas, water, and steam consumption meters daily Education Associate of Science in Business Administration and Management, General Monroe College 2009 Skills Android (Less than 1 year), Api (Less than 1 year), Automated testing (Less than 1 year), Automated testing tools (Less than 1 year), Aws (Less than 1 year), cyber security (5 years), Database (Less than 1 year), Database administration (Less than 1 year), Database modeling (Less than 1 year), frameworks (5 years), Hardware repair (Less than 1 year), ios (Less than 1 year), Javascript (10+ years), Linux (Less than 1 year), Mysql (Less than 1 year), Php (5 years), Security (Less than 1 year), Server administration (Less than 1 year), Testing (Less than 1 year), Testing tools (Less than 1 year), Drupal, C#, Angular, NET, Wordpress Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information My portfolio:   https://hamiltonmultimedia.github.io/portfoliopage/