Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - Avnet Inc Phoenix, AZ Senior web developer with exceptional server and client side coding abilities. Capable of hand coding websites to provide exactly what the client desires and modifying existing or using third party solutions effectively. Desiring to obtain a senior web developer position with a reputable company. Attempt to stay on top of the latest technologies and keep coding skills sharp. Work Experience Web Developer Avnet Inc December 2008 to Present • Web programming in PHP, MySQL, Action Script and JavaScript.  • Template CMS Framework, MVC framework, built a simple to deploy CMS system that pulls all template source files from one location. This made it easier to deploy one off sub sites to fit any need that comes up. It also makes it so if there was a change in the template design or an error found and corrected that it would apply to all sub sites. This eliminated updating every site to fix the correction. This framework is based on MVC principles. It uses both push and pull architecture.  • Link Shortener, the link shortener utilizes the Template CMS Framework mentioned above and is used to take long links and shorten them down so they are more user friendly to handle. This also logs the activity of the link. Logging info like the referrer, IP and how many times it was accessed.  • Video Upload & Convertor, this is a video admin CMS to Avnet's internal video system. The CMS utilizes the Template CMS Framework mentioned above. Built the HTML5 video player from ground up and extended the CMS to include analytics, annotations, and subtitles/captions.  • Global Line Card tool, this tool is a tool to build/access line card information based on location and company area. It is used to give customers a quick outlook on what manufactures are sold/distributed in their region.  • Executive Recruitment site, this tool was a hiring tool used by HR at Avnet to help recruit senior executives. It would outline the company and the functions they would be filling. Senior Web Developer AZPixels.com December 2005 to December 2007 • Web/banner design, web programming in PHP, MySQL, Action Script and JavaScript.  • Many of the projects worked on while at AZPixels were static html websites.  • While others were a bit more dynamic requiring the use of PHP and MySQL. Education Bachelor of Arts in Interactive Media Design in Interactive Media Design The Art Institute of Phoenix Skills Html, Javascript, Php, Mysql, Html5, Mvc, Cms, Css, Dhtml, jquery, Illustrator, Photoshop, Sem, Seo, Problem-solving, Front End, Bootstrap, Angular, Angularjs, Wordpress Additional Information SKILLS    • Experienced PHP programmer  • Extensive MySQL knowledge  • Fluent in HTML, HTML5 and DHTML  • Knowledgeable in CSS 1-3  • Exceptional JavaScript and jQuery skills  • Excellent Photoshop skills and Illustrator skills  • Amazing problem-solving and debugging abilities  • Hand create CMS and e-commerce sites  • Good SEM/SEO skills  • Can communicate and work well with others  • Experience protecting websites from XSS and MySQL attacks  • Created MVC framework from ground up  • Created and implemented third-party API's