Senior Database Administrator/Senior Developer Senior Database Administrator/Senior <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Database Administrator Tomball, TX Seeking employment in the field of Information Technology, with advanced experience (10+ years) in application development and database administration, specializing in the Microsoft technology stack (.Net and SQL Server related BI tools). Work Experience Senior Database Administrator/Senior Developer Markel Surety (formerly Suretec Financial Corporation) - Houston, TX 2008 to Present 3/2008 to present  • Database administration of surety policy administration system and premium transactional accounting databases/data warehouses.  • Responsible for administration, support, documenting requirements, building of new reports in   SSRS for accounting,claims and executive teams.  • Responsible for data modeling, design and development of Power Bi dashboards, Power Bi Report Server management/administration, along with KPIs and mobile reports.   • Expert level experience in writing, debugging T-SQL, stored procedures, custom functions, query optimization, views, schema architecting, indexes, normalization SQL Server 2012-2016 databases  • Advanced knowledge in SQL Server integration services for ETL, JSON, data ingestion, .NET integration to support data flow from policy administration systems to accounting ledger application and data warehouse for reporting.  • Maintained, supported and architected internal .net accounting transactional premium application, built with entity framework, C# and Telerik AJAX controls (architected and built a full transactional loss reserve module to support accounting/claims departments).  • Experience in configuring and using TFS/JIRA for proper documentation/versioning of stored procedures, integration services projects and SSRS projects (AGILE devops).  • Utilized in a variety of roles to support Information Systems, including network support/maintenance, helpdesk ticketing system, data migrations and major software upgrades in compliance with TDI (Texas Department of Insurance) specifications.  • Responsible for yearly and quarterly data encoding and submission of ISO statistical reports to SFAA (Surety & Fidelity Association of America) and quarterly TDI (Texas Department of Insurance)  • Enterprise level experience working with data integration and migration teams/actuarial after Markel acquisition of Suretec. Database Administrator (freelance) ACTWD.net - Houston, TX September 2006 to September 2012 • Database administration of hosting company's Windows servers. SQL Server 2000-2005. Responsible for database management of 5 separate SQL Server instances across dedicated and shared hosting environments.  • PCI DSS compliance for existing and new websites and databases. Getting websites certified for PCI compliance and hacker safe protection through Mcafee secure (http://www.mcafeesecure.com/us/) audits. Reversing SQL Injection attacks and securing from future attacks.  • Relational database design, migration and implementation, backup and disaster recovery.  • Setup and installation of news users/roles, Asp.Net SQL Server management utility for clients.  • Monitoring and maintenance of active DTS and SSIS packages on servers. Troubleshoot any issues that may arise. Senior Web Developer/Database Administrator Fifth Business - Houston, TX November 2006 to October 2008 • Responsible for development of intranet websites for BP primarily using ASP 3.0/AJAX/HTML/DHTML and SQL Server 2000-2005. Sample sites include BP internal communications departmental sites with user forums, event registrations, blogs, content management systems, wikis, all with backend administration screens to add/edit/delete user input, reporting features, import/export of data to excel, as well as user access control. Some intranet sites required multilevel security access which was controlled by LDAP queries against Active Directory Security groups as well as geographic location. Coordinated all sites with graphic designers and communications consultants to ensure BP brand was maintained, consistent and effectively communicated.  • Responsible for coding, testing, debugging, of all website applications/databases before migration and deployment to BP intranet. Relational Database design (conceptual, logical, implementation and physical) using SQL Server 2000-2005. Database modeling and normalization. SSIS database maintenance plans and disaster recovery.  • Responsible for development of web based internal Fifth Business management systems including timesheet and billing systems for designers and consultants, project tracking, and billing for internal tracking and auditing. Internal systems included multilevel security tiers with varying permissions for admins, accountants, managers and consultants.  • Complete system administration of IT services including Exchange Server and Active Directory, Group Policy, IIS administration, SQL Server 2000-2005 and networking. PC and laptop troubleshooting, user account setup and general IT maintenance and support. Senior Web Developer/Database Administrator Compass Technologies, LLC - Houston, TX June 2001 to November 2006 • Responsible for development of all dynamic content on client web sites: including full e-commerce solutions with administrative back-end pages. Extensive use of scripting technologies such as ASP, VBScript, JavaScript, DHTML, T-SQL, AJAX, COM objects, Cold Fusion, HTML, CSS and related software: Visual Studio.NET, Front Page 2002, HomeSite 5, Dreamweaver 4. Web Applications developed: shopping carts, user forums, user authentication and tracking managers, store management applications with complete administration capabilities, Quickbooks and Excel import/export utilities, newsletter managers to send and track mass emails, XML and RSS syndication modules, content management systems.  • Relational Database design and administration using SQL Server 2000-2005. Was responsible for all database implementations on client web sites including relational database design, migration and implementation, backup and recovery. Extensive experience and understanding of complex views/queries, advanced SQL design, stored procedures, triggers, Full Text Search, security and DTS/SSIS packages (including scheduled transformations of flat files and use of Active X scripts). Extensive experience working with and designing DTS packages in SQL Server 2000 as well as SSIS in SQL Server 2005.  • Responsible for setting up and configuring of all new websites. Tasks included DNS configuration, IIS installation and configuration, SSL configuration, security (PCI compliance) and all aspects of web server management. Involved in the full cycle deployment and quality assurance of commercial websites from start to finish.  • Complete Systems administration of LAN including: PC troubleshooting, Windows 2000-2003 domain administration with Active Directory, Exchange Server 2003 installation and migration from Exchange 5.5/NT system, responsible for backup/disaster recovery solutions using Veritas Backup Exec.  • Primary programming language used is ASP. Sample scripts include: user validation and tracking, data manipulation and transformation with various formats such as spreadsheets, csv documents, and Access databases, shipping calculators, inventory tracking, dealer management.  • Sample Websites:  http://www.mp3playeraccessories.net/ - Complete development of this website from database design and implementation to all web page scripting and administration. This site has an extensive back-end management side that allows the use to manage all aspects of the website, including product management, order management, content management. Primary technologies used: ASP/AJAX, SQL Server 2000, Visual Studio.NET  http://www.legendmicro.com - Full ecommerce computer parts website with fully functioning system configurator with multiple pricing tiers for resellers and government logins. Completely database driven website with multiple levels of category/subcategory navigation. Site also has extensive back-end administration for complete inventory tracking, product management, shipping control, and user management. Extensive use of SQL Server stored procedures, user defined functions, triggers and DTS packages.  http://www.digital-picture-printing-frames.com - Ecommerce website specializing in prints and frames. Custom framing application which allows a customer to select/preview frame, mats, glazing for any given print, including user uploaded prints. Fully functional administrative backend which allows the admin of the website to add/edit pricing on frames, mats and prints. Extensive use of image manipulation COM object.  http://studentservicesonline.hccs.edu - Completely dynamically driven website for Houston Community College System. All visible content is editable from a Content management system on the backend with WYSIWYG editor and complete control over meta tag titles, page headers, images and content. Calendar module for community events and student services developed using Asynchronous Javascript and XML Contract Web Developer/Designer Walter P. Moore & Associates - Houston, TX January 2000 to March 2001 • Update and maintain company website: http://www.walterpmoore.com/  • Design, update and maintain company intranet moorenet.walterpmoore.com: building HTML pages, DHTML pages, Cascading Style Sheets and Shockwave movies using Allaire Homesite 4.5, TopStyle, XML Spy 3.5, Macromedia Flash 5, Dreamweaver 4 and Microsoft Visual Interdev 6.0  • Conversion of company databases to ASP-driven, web-based applications: building dynamic ASP and VB Script pages using Access databases to present company information on an interactively-driven user interface, using Microsoft Visual Interdev 6.0 and Allaire Homesite 4.5. Involved direct interaction with various department heads to ascertain user preferences and requirements.  • Example ASP pages include: searchable phone directory queries, time-log check-in/check-out for employees, and personal profile page all tied into one relational Access database. Add/Modify/Delete page for phone database edits with form validation. Project list page: displayed queried results with relevant project details in a sortable table with color-coded cells, tied into a QC info page, allowing updateable fields for the user to input from the web. Firmlist search page: displayed queried results with pertinent company contact information.  • Design of company logos, backgrounds and animated images to be placed on HTML/DHTML pages using Adobe Photoshop 6.0, Fireworks 3.0, Illustrator 9.0, and Swift 3D. Was responsible for designing and implementing a new look and feel for the company intranet.  • Design and development of company spreadsheets into relational Access databases.  • Trained and Certified in Crystal Reports 7.0: report writing and light programming to present company information in a useful manner.  • General IS duties: Including move and installation of user desktops and back-end servers. Successful relocation of Walter P. Moore's branch office in Kansas City. Education B.B.A. in Management Information Systems in MIS University of Houston - Houston, TX Skills .NET (10+ years), ASP (10+ years), MS SQL SERVER (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), SQL Server (10+ years), DBA, Sql Database, Sql Dba, ETL, Ssis Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS  Operating Systems: Windows 3.X, 95, 2000, 2003, 2008-2012 Server, Advanced Server, NT, XP, Vista, 2007-2010  Languages: C, C#, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, VB Script, VB.Net, Classic ASP, CSS, XML, T-SQL, AJAX  Compliance Standards: W3C compliance, PCI compliance, SOX compliance, TDI compliance  Applications: SQL Server 2000-2016, Power BI, Active Directory, Visual Studio 2017, IIS 5.0-8.0, DNS, DTS, SSIS packages, Crystal Reports 7.0 Certified, TOAD, Oracle 9i, Visio