Sr Web Developer Sr <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Web Developer - Leidos Ok City Oklahoma City, OK ? 10+ years of extensive experience in Web Application Development and Implementation in various domains like Finance, GIS, e-Commerce mostly in the Front end web development.  ? Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Analysis, Design, Development, Documentation, Testing, Deployment, Version Control and production support.  • Extensive Worked on HTML, DHTML, XHTML, DOM, JavaScript, AJAX, XML, EXT.JS, Angular, Backbone, DOJO/ Jquery.  • Highly motivated and result oriented professional with experience as a Senior Web Developer. Excellent Analytical skills to understand the business process and Functionality, Requirements and to translate them to system requirement specifications.  ? Extensive experience in Object Oriented Analysis & Design (OOA&D), Development and Implementation of Client-Server/ Web development using n-tier architecture.  ? Experience as web developer in developing commercial enterprise web applications using XML, AJAX and Dreamweaver 8.0/10.0.  ? Working Experience with browsers compatibility issues with browsers like Firefox, Safari, Opera, Chrome.  ? Ability to work with Web Integration Bridges, Web Services, Third Party APIs like Google Maps API, facebook API etc.  ? Extensive knowledge of MVC architecture, I am very efficient in separating every layer of my code according to the functionality performed by it.  ? Expertise in working with browsers compatibility issues.  ? Sound knowledge in SEO, making the websites SEO Friendly and ranking in search engines  ? Expertise in creating and maintaining blogs.  ? Achievements in performance tuning of web applications..  ? Well versed with multiple version control tools like SVN, CVS, Source Control, and Sub-Versioning. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Web Developer Leidos Ok City August 2018 to Present Developed WEB 2.0 cross-browser compatible AJAX applications with HTML-4, CSS-2 and object-oriented unobtrusive DOM JavaScript utilizing dojo libraries  ? Design new user interface for the mobile application using PhoneGap, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and Ajax.  ? Responsible for designing page layout in JSP files using HTML4/5, CSS3 and write JSTL and Scriptlet elements and JavaScript.  ? Front-end integration of advanced HTML, JavaScript, CSS with pre-built JSP pages using Eclipse with SVN/CVS for source control  ? Use AJAX with JQuery to parse JSON object to Dynamic overlay contents on web pages.  ? Responsible for designing Front-end as well as Back-end  ? Working with browsers compatibility issues.  ? Estimated time to develop for all approved prototypes and the implementation of those prototypes using jQuery and CSS as well as showing to project leads and receiving and implementing any changes or implementation updates  ? Responsible for creating the JavaScript code, for different modules.  ? Responsible for designing svg graphics using GIMP  ? Developed the whole application around the concept of JSON    Environment: JavaScript, OOJS, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JQuery, Backbone.JS, RWD, DHTML, MVC,JSON, PHP. Sr. Javascript Developer PayPal - Austin, TX November 2016 to July 2018 Developed a data driven website utilizing HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery for the front end, PHP and MySQL for the backend.  ? Implemented very rich GUI using HTML/DHTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Implemented Backbone.js for one of the module to migrate MVC model framework.  ? Implemented the Ajax/JSON call to update jQuery pop-up, tooltip and overlay. Implemented OO JavaScript frame work to query the database and return a row of records as an array and by using json_encode() to encode this array, and pass it back to the JavaScript which will use it to display the records in the widget by using Json/Ajax.  ? Developed mobile native application using Objective C and XCode for iPhone.  ? Developed mobile application using jQuery Mobile.  ? Worked within a self matrix environment to coordinate, schedule and control.  ? Responsible for all aspect of development including user interface, use experience, debug (Firefox, Chrome and IE), release and approval to place app in the market place.  ? As a Sr. Web Developer and System Designer I Volunteered designing, maintaining and implementing new functionalities using HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, and Java.  ? Mostly involved in VIEW and CONTOLLER section of MVC pattern for CMS project, it includes HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Jquery and AJAX which were used for UI development.  ? Planned, created, launched, and managed corporate web portals.  ? Designed applications in AJAX with rich user interfaces. (accordion panes, tabbed containers, split panes , etc)  ? Implemented drag and drop operations, HTML, DOM effects, animations like slide shows, fade in-fade out effects on the web pages.  ? Accountability includes marketing to client, partnering with users to define the future roadmap.  ? Performed Software Development Life Cycle and Methodologies  ? Performed mobile technology architecture and infrastructure design activities.  ? Performed troubleshooting, diagnosing, and supporting of the mobile application development.  ? Worked on several web applications utilizing  ? Designing and developing AJAX libraries for dynamic and cutting edge user experience.  ? Followed the MVC (Model-View-Controller) in all projects.  ? Implemented XML parsing code by using PHP for different application.  ? Generated different reports requested by the various departments of the organization.  ? Used FPDF functionality to generate reports of different aspects of business in PDF files.  ? Developing multiple responsive and dynamic websites compliant to Section 508 using WordPress.    Environment:JavaScript, JQuery/Ext.JS, Angular.JS,JSON, CSS3, HTML5, AJAX, JavaScript Engineer I2 Technologies - Dallas, TX May 2013 to October 2016 Assist with walk-through and usability testing. Updated UI per changing needs and requirements.  ? Bug fixes for existing software system and also software enhancement.  ? Developing UI solutions to help users in their routine operations.  ? Developing software system using JavaScript, JQuery, CSS and HTML.  ? Used Firebug, Firebug Lite, IE Developer Toolbar, for debugging and browser compatibility.  ? Involved in the web application development for mobile platform for the same project.  ? Written codes for creating different types of links in the web app like mail link, phone link, text link, map link, you tube link, iTunes links, etc  ? Used a lot of HTML5 and CSS3 to design the layouts, look and feel of the web pages.  ? Implemented latest HTML5 and CSS3 features like creating various effects, shading, 2D 3D animation, Shapes, Handling multimedia files and many others.  ? Implemented Auto Complete search bar and Filters in the projects using AJAX.  ? Handled client side validation using JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Created and tested scripts using JQuery on various browsers Chrome, Firefox, Opera, Safari, IE, etc.  ? Working with object oriented programming concept such as Inheritance, Polymorphism, and Encapsulation.  ? Tracked and fixed bugs that were found during various phases of the development using firebug and web tool kit.  ? Involved in compilation of project status reports.  ? Coordinated project activities and ensured that all project phases are followed and documented properly.  ? Used JQuery for creating various widgets, data manipulation, data traversing, form validations, create the content on the fly depend on the user request, implementing Ajax features for the application.  ? Developed Tabbed pages using Advanced AJAX and JSON for quick view of related content, providing both functionality and ease of access to the user  ? Coded Java Script for page functionality and Pop up Screens.    Environment: JavaScript, JQuery, MySQL, AJAX, JSON, HTML, CSS Lead Programmer Harwood International - Dallas, TX September 2010 to April 2013 Involved in all phases of Software System Life Cycle - Analysis, systems specification, design, implementation, testing, and integration, support of application deployment.  ? Developing inventory system using Object Oriented PHP, Mysql, CSS and Javascript.  ? Knowledge the Database Schema design and normalization in designing new databases for the expanding applications  ? Knowledge of Implemented Session Handlers to be persisted into the MySQL database tables  ? Knowledge of Developing PDF Forms for Reporting,  ? Implemented a Ajax in a application. Developed an Ajax framework for Internet Application access to databases.  ? Used Ajax to send or get minor data (XML) from server to generate reports.  ? Knowledge of Developed the Stored Procedures and Functions using SQL for database intensive operations.  ? Knowledge of Creating and using SQL Queries, Scripts and Stored Procedures for data validations.  ? Responsible for the Database Design and extensive Documentation.  ? Used triggers, sequences, Outer joins a dinner joins, functions and procedures.  ? Writing queries and statements to test database for retrieving information, editing data and inserting data.  ? Involved in performing Technical Analysis and writing Functional Specifications based on the Business Requirement documents and application.  ? Set up collaborative development environment and mentored team in implementing a subversion repository.    Environment: HTML, CSS, XML, AJAX, JavaScript, MySql Web Developer HBK Investment - Dallas, TX May 2008 to August 2010 System used to computerize & track all procedural steps involving in applying for a loan by desired consumer after selecting the product, processing the loan & approving or rejecting loan, tracking loan payments & generating system reports as required by management & finance teams.  ? Analyzed & understood the existing complex financial system.  ? Gathered requirements from the finance team to design the database & decide technology to use.  ? Built PHP functional code to implement each & every functionality which involved intense  ? interaction with the MySQL database.  ? Installed, Configured & maintained Linux server & LAMP stack  ? Played vital role in testing the product.  ? Configured Apache Server and MySQL Database Server.    Environment: PHP, MySQL, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, LAMP, WAMP Education Bachelor's