CFO/Owner CFO/Owner Other People Make Stuff, I Make Stuff HAPPEN. Caldwell, ID While writing was one of my first loves, and still plays a vital role in my work today, for over a decade I have worked as a professional designer of graphics, a photographer, and as a web developer have been involved in computer technology and coding since the just before the birth of the Web back in the early 1990’s. In the past 10 years I have honed my skills in the fields of search engine optimization as well as social media marketing. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience CFO/Owner Geeks Worldwide LLC - Boise, ID November 2014 to Present We provide design, development, and consulting for the web and social media with a focus on the success of our client.    Our clientele is selectively collected of impassioned individuals who understand the importance of building online equity to strengthen their brand and create a viable presence for their vision.     Beyond just working with individuals we are extremely open to assisting larger design companies who are in need of experienced service providers to meet deadlines or serve their own clients.    No mere design house, cranking out prefab work for the masses we operate as knights of the networks, with service as our sword, bringing a higher level of integrity to our industry. No exceptions on excellence.    Specific Services Include:    • Business and Digital Marketing Consulting  • Web Design and Development  • Graphic Design for Print and Web  • Database Design  • Social Media Marketing and Consulting  • Search Engine Optimization  • Copy Writing Web Developer Tour Real Estate Inc - Meridian, ID August 2008 to Present As a web developer at a major real estate technology company my responsibilities include bug fixing of existing code, maintenance of data bases, as well as development of new functions and user interface display.    I am familiar with aspects of web development both front and back end, as well as graphic design, search engine optimization, and social media marketing.    I routinely create websites and creative visual content that fulfill the clients specifications and exceed their expectations.    Specialties:   HTML, CSS, Coldfusion, PHP, SQL, mySQL, Basic Java/Actionscript, WordPress, cPanel administration, Copy writing, Graphic Design, Customer Service, Advanced Computer Skills, Search Engine Optimization, Social Networking, Digital Marketing, Print Marketing, Event Promotion Webmaster DBA Hinsel.com - Boise, ID January 1999 to November 2014 Strengthening the digital presence of existing websites and creating powerful search engine friendly websites and marketing are my specialties. This area of expertise includes social network marketing, viral media, and organic SEO.    Through my efforts doing business as Hinsel.com I was able to provide a number of websites for small business owners ranging from basic html sites to complex e-commerce solutions. Education High school or equivalent in General Studies Pensacola Christian College - New Orleans, LA August 1984 to June 1996 Skills Word, Management, Wordpress (8 years), HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), PHP, Copy Writing (10+ years), Social Media Marketing (6 years), Social Media Management (6 years), SQL, Coldfusion (8 years), SEO (8 years)