Sr. PHP/Drupal Developer Sr. PHP/Drupal <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. PHP/Drupal Developer - Tandemseven Vernon Hills, IL • Around 9+ years of experience as a Senior PHP/Drupal Developer and Software Engineer in Design, Development and Implementation of various Client/Server, Web-based applications.  • Extensive experience on Web Technologies using PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, and JQuery.  • Highly experienced in Drupal 6, 7 Installation, Configuration, Module and Theme development, content management.  • Experience in developing a content management package (e.g. core Interwoven technologies like Team Site)  • Proficiency in rapid UI developing using JQuery and Java script.  • Experience on working with CSS Backgrounds, CSS Layouts, CSS Positioning, CSS Animations, CSS Text, CSS Borders, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes and Pseudo.  • Experienced in developing e-commerce applications with Joomla, Magento, WordPress and OS Commerce.  • Experienced with ZEND MVC Framework and ZEND_X libraries for developing enterprise applications.  • Developing and installing modules and plugins in different CMS like Joomla, Word press.  • Experienced in Drupal user access management, administration, performance and security.  • Experience with e-commerce on Drupal utilizing Drupal Commerce.  • Well versed with complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process, expert in Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation of PHP Applications.  • Significant experience in web development tools like APTANA STUDIO, Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Spring Tool Suite, Eclipse, and Firebug.  • Strong on Object Oriented Programming (OOP) Concepts using PHP.  • Good Knowledge in Core Java Programming.  • Experience in SQL Injection  • Experienced in Model View Controller (MVC) architecture based Web Application Development.  • Excellent experience on MVC frameworks like Cake PHP, CodeIgniter, Symfony, Open Cart for developing enterprise applications.  • Experienced in Drupal themes, modules and familiarity with the Drupal API and hook system.  • Experienced with multiple version control tools like SVN, CVS, and TFS Source Control.  • Experienced in developing strategies for Search Engine Optimization (SEO)  • Experienced in IDE's like Dreamweaver, Notepad++, Net beans.  • Skilled in WAMP, LAMP and XAMPP platforms.  • Extensively developed Stored Procedures.  • Performed database optimization by utilizing Normalization, Indexes, Triggers and Constraints.  • Extensive knowledge in Linux operating system including file system organization, System administration and commands  • Experience in developing UNIX shell scripts.  • Knowledge in using SOAP protocols and JSON data-interchange language.  • Proficient in Integrating Google API's and Social networking API's like Facebook Graph API, Twitter API and REST Web services to the application.  • Configured and Run Cron jobs using Unix Commands.  • Excellent analytical skills accompanied by good written, interpersonal communication, documentation and testing skills.  • Excellent Team player and can work individually. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. PHP/Drupal Developer Tandemseven - Vernon Hills, IL December 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Requirements gathering from business and defining specifications for the system.  • Worked in a team, Involved in developing the UI, layout and front-end programming (HTML) from wireframes.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plug-in for Drag and Drop, AutoComplete, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS, and JavaScript, Bootstrap.  • Designs, Develop Custom Drupal Modules using Drupal 8 for implementing REST API.  • Developed mockups and prototypes using VISIO.  • Did extensive Javascript and JQuery programming to give AJAX functionality for the website.  • Used Bootstrap with JavaScript, HTML and CSS.  • Installed and configured Drupal 8 in the UNIX environment and performed various Content Management System modifications for the Websites.  • Implemented Symfony2 framework for better use of MVC concepts.  • Built s AJAX pages using PHP to display current server time  • Involved in the development using JQuery and PHP and designed applications in AJAX with rich user interfaces.  • Development experience with Zend, Net Beans, Notepad++, JEdit  • Modification and customization of the Drupal and WordPress themes.  • Worked with MySQL which includes configuration, query optimization, full-text search indexing and de-normalization Expert in handling the administration of MySQL database using PHPMyAdmin.  • Developed and design security token for in order to verify only valid users can request to API.  • Developed new modules call schedule by using JQuery full calendar and Ajax for front-end and back end.  • Worked on Stack Zend PHP, Apache Web Server, SVN, Oracle, JavaScript, Jquery  • Worked on HTML5/CSS and JQuery in a Drupal based CMS environment  • Performed image/graphic slicing and optimization using Adobe Photoshop.  • Used JIRA, Stash, Bamboo, Confluence Project development tools  • Excellent work done in writing queries, stored procedures, triggers and functions in SQL Server, Oracle, DB2 etc.  Environment: PHP, HTML 5, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, MySQL, JQuery, Windows, Apache, MVC Frame Work, CSS, Angular, Drupal 7, 8, Symfony2, WordPress. Sr. PHP/Drupal Developer FMR, Triangle Park - Durham, NC June 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed and maintained Ruby on Rails web applications.  • Developed Contact Fill Application using Drupal8 and installation and integration of the Application online.  • Maintained high volume availability demands using open source tools such as Linux, Apache, PHP, and MYSQL.  • Extensively used JQuery Table sorter plugin as a data grid for sorting and freezing headers and footers for many tables which holds huge data related to vendors under the specific Contract vehicle.  • Developed configuration programs to compatible to different browsers and resolutions on Chrome, IE, Firefox & Mozilla.  • Also created few web applications for clients for a website in Angular2 using Typescript.  • Worked with symphony, design patterns like singleton pattern, registry pattern and model view control pattern in Magento framework.  • Worked with the Database Schema design and normalization for database accessed by the procedural PHP pages.  • Used the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications.  • Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop.  • Developed user interface using PHP, CodeIgniter, NOCMS, bootstrap, AJAX, JQuery, HTML, CSS.  • Developed Configurable shims for modular JavaScript. Displayed good UX  • Create find wish list functionality provides unique responses when an invalid user name is submitted to the application.  • Worked with the Database Schema design and normalization for database accessed by the procedural PHP pages  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, AJAX, and CSS, JQuery other libraries  • Worked with integrating search engine optimization (SEO) functionality within an MVC framework using constantly evolving legitimate techniques to improve website ranking in the major Search Engines.  Environment: PHP, HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS3, MYSQL, Photoshop, Adobe Flash Professional, Report Builder, Ubuntu 12.04, LAMP WordPress, MySQL, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML/XHTML, XML, Zend framework, Drupal. PHP/Drupal Developer VERIZON - New Brunswick, NJ November 2012 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Working very closely with designing team to provide great user interface.  • Worked on JavaScript (including Object Oriented practices) and AJAX  • Used Jquery for creating different menus and dialog boxes and also used different jquery plugins for calendar, calculator and printing options.  • Used various inbuilt PHP functions to write complex code and achieve various functionalities.  • Created web based event Calendar and other application related to it for the ease of the user.  • Developed code using KOHANA framework.  • Implemented AJAX and JQuery on Front-End to make the web page more dynamic.  • Worked on PHP programming, including OO, procedural, data structures and design patterns.  • Development of a service system Symfony2 framework based.  • Involved in Testing and maintaining high standard of codes.  • Designed the Custom theme as per the clients need  • Conceived and designed database tables in MySql 5  • Embedded PHP & HTML formatting and JavaScript Validations  • Used SVN to maintain current and historical versions of files such as source code and web pages.  • Build AJAX pages using PHP to display current server time    Environment: Joomla, WordPress, JQuery, PHP, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CodeIgniter, Zend, Symfony2. PHP/ Web Developer CMC Limited Hyderabad September 2010 to October 2012 Andhra Pradesh    Responsibilities:  • Involved in creating and managing databases using MySQL  • Involved in back-end coding to manage static pages using CodeIgniter (MVC), JavaScript, JQuery, CSS and HTML.  • Identifying and solving issues caused by plugins or feeds under PHP, MYSQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery Technology.  • Modifying PHP, HTML, CSS, Java script, JQuery according to project requirements.  • Worked on developing web pages using AJAX, JavaScript, AngularJS, HTML5, Dojo, NodeJS, JQuery, JSON, XML, and REST  • Responsible for implementing timely, high-quality text and HTML5/CSS3& incorporate Responsive Design techniques in the web content  • Back end development and maintenance of websites using PHP and MySQL.  • Efficiently developed code for different modules by using Oracle SQL, PLSQL and Shell scripting.  • Designed interfaces in Photoshop, Flash, Notepad++, Corel Paint ShopX2, Image Ready & WordPress.  • Worked with PHP/MySQL, HTML/CSS, Java Daemons for Google Maps API development  • Web application development, written in PHP/MySQL, JQuery and Bootstrap, using historical data manipulation.  • Written AJAX driven JSON consuming JavaScript functions to save User selections such as radio button, drop-down menu selections into a cookie.  • Updating themes, database and plugins. Redesigning the application pages according to client requirements.  • Designed sites in Photoshop, slicing it and then convert it in HTML in tabular format.  • Used advanced level of HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts (table less layout)  • Used the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications.  • Design & development of Key functionalities of the application and creation of relevant UML artifacts and design documentation.  • Setup testing environment for Unit Test as well as Front end testing using PHP Unit, Selenium test cases.    Environment: REST API, OAuth, PHP 5.1, HTML 4, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, MySQL, JQuery, Windows, Apache, MVC Frame Work, JQuery, CSS. PHP/ Web Developer Apcrat Inc June 2008 to August 2010 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for foundation develop and design of system on WordPress, Drupal and Open Cart E-commerce framework.  • Developed the front-end web page by using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and JavaScript, taking advantage of the frameworks AngularJS.  • Debugging and troubleshooting existing code using Firebug and Developer Tools.  • Integrated source code and version control systems subversion (SVN).  • Follow complete SDLC methodology in development of this project. A comprehensive detail and technical design were produced  • Involved in the JavaScript Client side for improvising the User Interface  • Developed forums  • Developed a PHP live chat system  • Managed different staging and production server for system.  • Managed the Linux server and configure Cron Jobs  • Managed the Linux server (CentOS) and configured Apache, PHP and MySQL. Deployed in Linux Server.  • Created users and setup privileges for the servers and users.  • Involved in Database design and implemented in MySQL.  • Involved in testing the usability of the application.  • Involved in writing test cases.  • Involved in Maintenance and debugging the application.    Environment: CMS, HTML 4.0, CSS 2.1, PHP, Java Script DOM, MySQL, Linux - CentOS, Apache 2.0. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (9 years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years), MYSQL (9 years), PHP (9 years), BOOTSTRAP (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Web Technologies: HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Web Services (SOAP, REST API's), Social Networking API's, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JSON  Languages: PHP, MySQL, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, C.  Web Design: Macromedia Dream weaver 8, Notepad++.  CMS/Frameworks: WordPress, CodeIgniter, CakePHP, Drupal 6,7 and 8, Zend, Symfony, Smarty Template Engine.  Applications/ Tools: MS Office, MS Visual Studio, Blender, Photoshop, Corel Draw, Dream Weaver, Illustrator, Flash, Git.  Operating System: Windows, Macintosh, Linux.  Tools/Open Source Software: LAMP, WAMP, XAMPP, winSCP3, Putty, SVN, SSH, My Eclipse  IDE Tools: Eclipse 3.0/3.1, Dreamweaver CS3, ZEND studio  Applications/ Tools: MS Office, MS Visual Studio, Blender, Photoshop, Corel Draw, Dream Weaver, Illustrator, Flash, Git