Front End Developer/Adobe AEM Front End <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Adobe AEM Front End Developer/Adobe AEM - Intel Corp./Altera Fremont, CA I am a Senior UI Developer, specializing in coding cross/browser HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, and JavaScript.  Whether working for a small business or a large corporation, I can work well alone or with a large team.  I get along with others easily, I am entirely self-taught, & am constantly making an effort to stay current with web  technologies. I am always looking for ways to improve my work and prefer to do things right the first time. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer/Adobe AEM Intel Corp./Altera - San Jose, CA October 2016 to Present I work closely with UX, design and business owners on high traffic consumer facing pages within Intel.com.  Since I started I have participated in two site redesigns and a system upgrade, where I had to build the site and components from the ground up.    • Learned how to develop UI components for Adobe AEM.  • Help maintain, enhance and create new components to help our users be more productive.  • I am the main architect of the processes used for front-end development, which includes SVG sprite  maps, JavaScript bundling and trans-piling via Babel JS, JavaScript source maps and SASS/CSS  preprocessing.    I've had the opportunity to lead the second redesign effort which involved planning, delegating work as well as doing some of the work myself. Front End Developer Complete Genomics - Mountain View, CA July 2015 to January 2016 I worked closely with the business and UX to build a front-end interface for a genome sequencer.  • I helped determine JSON model needed to display the content within the application.  • Worked closely with design and UX  • Used Vanilla JS and Backbone, Require, LESS, JSON and Handlebars Front End Developer CliQr - Santa Clara, CA March 2015 to July 2015 Helping maintain/update code for a consumer facing cloud-management application.  • Worked with remote teams to discuss issues and solutions  • Worked closely with design to build UI  • Used Vanilla JS and Backbone, HTML, LESS Senior UI Engineer eHealth - Mountain View, CA February 2014 to March 2015 At eHealth, I had the opportunity to work on a few consumer facing websites in different teams within the company.  • Worked on a Configurable Employer Marketplace application.  • Worked closely with UX with the creation of the company’s first responsive site implementation.  • Used Vanilla JS, LESS, Senior UI Developer Rosetta - San Jose, CA April 2010 to February 2014 I oversaw UI Development (HTML / CSS / JavaScript) for various consumer facing projects for several large  companies that Rosetta handles (Apple, Autodesk, Cisco, VMware, NetApp, Marvell, Namco, etc.).  ? Worked onsite at Autodesk on user management application.  ? Worked onsite at Apple on various projects.  ? Developed UI for financial overview/charging application iOS + modern browsers for Cisco.  ? Worked on the NetApp IT Efficiency Analyzer application. Web Master Socket Mobile - Fremont, CA June 2009 to April 2010 Created and designed all web related material for the company's main website.  • I set up the company CMS to help with maintenance  • Created Designs in Photoshop and Illustrator  • Worked on UX, UI frontend/backend code (JS/CSS/.NET/SQL) Web Developer/Designer Novariant - Fremont, CA April 2008 to June 2009 At Covariant, I Designed/developed partner portal and public website.  • Implemented CMS for partner portal.  • Maintained all front-end aspects of the partner portal and company website as well as creating print  material and signage for trade shows and conferences.  • Used JS/CSS and .NET Frontend Web Developer/Designer Hornblower Cruises & Events - San Francisco, CA October 2006 to April 2008 Worked on the Corporate Marketing team, specializing in front-end web development  • Created wireframes, layouts, promotional graphics, and emails.  • I set up, managed, developed templates for a CMS  • Used JS, CSS, Flash and HTML Frontend Web Developer/Designer Intel Corp - Santa Clara, CA September 2000 to October 2006 Worked on Legal web team to develop for various intranet projects to support the legal department.  • Created/recorded and maintained web-based trainings for the internal legal team  • Maintained static intranet sites for Intel and Intel legal  • Used JS, CSS, Flash, .NET, SQL Education A.A.S in Multimedia and Visual Communications Masters Institute - San Jose, CA Skills CSS (10+ years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), SASS (2 years), JSON (Less than 1 year), AJAX (Less than 1 year), BOOTSTRAP (Less than 1 year), FRAMEWORKS (Less than 1 year), Git (Less than 1 year), HTML5 (Less than 1 year), OOP (Less than 1 year), XML (Less than 1 year), Front-End, UI, Front End, UI, Front-End, Front End, CSS3 Additional Information SKILLS  Languages: OOP, HTML5, CSS/SASS/LESS, JavaScript(ES6)/JSON/AJAX, XML  Frameworks/Utilities: Git, Gulp/Grunt, LESS/SASS, Babel, Rollup, Bootstrap, (some ReactJS)