UI designer, Front End Developer UI designer, Front End <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI designer, Front End Developer - Mybikelist.com Edina, MN Graphic Designer, and Front-End Web Designer/ Developer with 18+ years practical experience and strong expertise in brand identity, logo design, marketing collateral, web and interactive design including user experience design, email marketing, and social media. Motivated team player with a positive attitude and the ability to develop and execute concept-driven, creative design solutions while maintaining high quality control standards and technical proficiency. Work Experience UI designer, Front End Developer VeloFred.com - Minneapolis, MN 2010 to Present • Responsible for all design, branding, product and web development, design initiatives for company.  • osCommerce - based site. Done: back-end and front-end usability and functionality customization (CSS, new modules integration, new blocks and pages). Website Maintenance.  • In charge of Amazon and eBay marketplace accounts. UI designer, Front End Developer Mybikelist.com - Minneapolis, MN 2018 to 2019 • PHPMyDirectory - based site. Custom code modifications and custom template design.  • Website Maintenance. Web Designer, Front-End Web Developer, Graphic Designer Freelance/Self employed - New York, NY 2005 to 2010 Designed and deployed web sites, landing pages, created visual brand identities using HTML, CSS, PHP, Oscommrece, PostNuke, Flash and Actionscript, Illustrator, Photoshop. Graphic Web Designer Carver Emory, INC - New York, NY 2003 to 2005 • Fully designed and developed company e-commerce website using open source project (oscommerce.com) as a base.  • Performed interconnection of E-Commerce software and existing website foundation.  • Advised and integrated Flash animated game and presentation of child safety products. Consultant-Producer, Web Designer Buchanan, NY 2000 to 2003 • Managed architecture, navigation and design for company website.  • Developed branding strategy and corporate identity for Executive Moving.  • Designed and developed brochures, advertisements and direct mail pieces. Education Interactive Media and Web Design Pratt Institute - New York, NY 2001 to 2003 B.S. in Mechanical Engineering National University of Food Technologies - Kiev, UA Skills CONTENT MANAGEMENT, PHP, CONTENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS, CSS, HTML5, CSS3, Front-End, UI, Front End, User Interface, Bootstrap