Internship Internship Duluth, MN Knowledgeable Exercise Physiologist seeking to demonstrate the power of exercise and movement to improve patients' health and well-being through one-on-one and small group training programs. Approachable coach able to motivate patients and establish positive wellness habits. Proven business management, leadership, and organizational experience. Leveraged technology to improve the creation, delivery and effectiveness of exercise programs. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Internship SUPERIOR PERFORMANCE - Duluth, MN June 2019 to August 2019 Worked with endurance clients online and in-person. Assisted with exercise tests. Developed training plans.  Developed a Wellness program pilot to be offered as a service to small and mid-sized companies. Lead Web Developer AERO DESIGN AND MANUFACTURING - Duluth, MN August 2010 to August 2018 Maintained ecommerce website including content creation, database management, and web programming  Maintained email marketing lists and campaigns Partner BACT PROPERTIES - Duluth, MN February 2008 to December 2017 Founded and ran real estate rental company, managing 7 properties and 17 rental units  Bookkeeping, day-to-day accounting, and analysis for purchase and rehabilitation projects  Marketed vacancies and interviewed and vetted prospective tenants Partner, Lead Web Developer OPPNA WEB SOLUTIONS - Duluth, MN June 2001 to December 2017 Partner in a web development business, assisted with business responsibilities  Designed, developed, and maintained websites and associated databases  Communicated with clients, set expectations, and resolved conflicts Head Lifeguard, Personal Trainer, Swim Coach YMCA - Syracuse, NY 1992 to 2004 Supervised and developed pool schedules  Designed and supervised individualized exercise programs for person training clients  Coached high-level age group swim team  Taught Lifeguards, First Aid, and Water Safety Instructors Education Master of Science in Exercise Physiology COLLEGE OF ST. SCHOLASTICA - Duluth, MN August 2019 Bachelor of Arts in Natural Science ST. JOHN'S UNIVERSITY - Collegeville, MN December 1987 Skills Coaching, Organizational skills, Cpr/aed, Cardiac, Ekg, Excel, Microsoft word, Excellent organizational skills, Teaching Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES    CPR/AED Certified  Knowledge and understanding of exercise physiology, nutrition and cardiac risk factors  EKG, blood pressure, heart rate and lactate monitoring  Exercise testing; max, sub-max, lactate threshold, and cardiac stress tests  Body composition testing, 7-site skinfold measurements  Fitness assessments  Aerobic and strength exercise program design  Pursuing NSCA CSCS and ACSM EP-C certification   Expertise with metabolic cart and Breeze software    ADDITIONAL SKILLS    Proficient in Microsoft Word and Excel  Knowledge of web programming languages  Excellent organizational skills  Teaching, coaching, and communication skills  Skilled working with varied software and hardware platforms