SR. ROR DEVELOPER SR. ROR <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> Ruby on Rails Developer Philadelphia, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SR. ROR DEVELOPER ATNT - New York, NY June 2016 to Present AT&T Inc., incorporated October 5, 1983, is a holding company. The Company and its subsidiaries provide communications and digital entertainment services in the United States and the world. The Company operates through four segments: Business Solutions, Entertainment Group, Consumer Mobility and International.    ACCOUNTABILITIES:    • Worked in the design and development phases as lead of the application using ROR framework.   • Used Rails, AJAX, JSON, CSS and JQUERY to design the front end of the application. Back end of the application is developed mainly using Active Records.  • Developed and tested many features in an AGILE environment using Ruby on Rails, HTML5, CSS JavaScript, Bootstrap, Rspec, and Html.   • Wrote TDD test cases and implementing controller methods of spring for different projects.  • Built the application using TDD (Test Driven Development) approach.  • Developed and executed Unit Test cases using JUnit framework by supporting TDD (Test Driven Development).  • Used RSpec to create test driven development (TDD) along with Capybara.  • Worked on Test-driven development with Rspec, Capybara, and jasmine (for JavaScript) and achieving 100% test coverage.  • Implemented Apache Spark data processing project to handle data from RDBMS and streaming sources.  • Wrote data ingestion systems to pull data from traditional RDBMS platforms such as Oracle and TERADATA and store it in NOSQL databases such as Mongo DB.  • Led an effort to migrate from RDBMS systems used for reporting to using NoSQL systems and Apache Phoenix to minimize costs in a big-data environment.  • Input validations were done using Rails Validation functions.  • Involved in developing and implementation of the web application using Ruby on Rails.   • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVC architecture of Rails framework and Ruby conducting code reviews.   • Used GIT and JENKINS for continuous integration and deployment.  • Managed code for different releases by branching and merging using Git and gerrit for code review.  • User Interface for website with ERB, JQuery, RJS, Ruby, Ajax for View, Controller, Model in Ruby on Rails Framework on Mac OS X and Operating System.   • Worked with Active record Classes from Rails Console for Database programming, which also involved writing active record validations.   • Designed and developed the web applications and interface using Ruby, Rails, and AJAX.   • Used HamL, AJAX, Jquery and cascading style sheets (CSS) and Turbolinks for faster page loads.   • Developed and implemented flagship e-commerce platform using Ruby on Rails and Mongo db.   • Designed and developed the frontend application using Rails, CSS, AJAX and JQuery.   • Wrote ruby scripts for deployments onto AWS and Continuous Integration provisioning.   • General form validation was done using ES6 closures for Widget-app module.  • Used git with GitHub for version control with other Atlassian ALM toolsexperience preferred (C#).  • Used Jira, Confluence, VersionOne for tracking hours, Crucible for code inspections, Github for deployment.  • Developed web applications with W3C XHTML, HTML5, CSS3 standards and using Ruby, Rails, Git and Heroku.   • Developed stored procedures compatible with MYSQL in ruby.   • Developed solutions using Ruby on Rails and Active Record and integrated gems, plug-in etc.   • Created Ruby on Rails API for Angular front end mobile home sharing app.   • Worked on Single page applications using ANGULAR JS, NODE JS, GULP, WEBPACKER(ES6).  • Migrated real time coaching application from Rails/TurboLinks to a React single page application  • Created and modified code within a Ruby on Rails-based application   • Ruby on Rails-based platform via decoration, extensive use of view models, and additional customer based customizations   • Worked on Single page applications using ANGULAR JS, NODE JS, GULP, WEBPACKER(ES6).  • Configured with Webpacker.js to test the JavaScript with JSHint, run unit tests with Jasmine-Karma, compile SASS and concatenate.  • Constructed powerful and modern frontend architecture, involving React, Redux, and ES6.   • Developed new Widget-app module for MMD 2.0 using React.js with Redux architecture and ES6.  • Involved in developing and implementation of the Back-end web application using Ruby on Rails.   • Used ActionCable, Konva-React, and png encoding for real time drawing.  • Worked with ECMA Script features. For build of JSX, used Babel and Webpacker.   • Created prototypes with component based rendering using Webpacker bundler and Babel Transpiler.  • Developed JavaScript files with the help of Webpacker and babel.   • Developed site-utilizing Ruby on Rails on Mac OS, upheld by MySQL and Capistrano to automate and facilitate the deployment process on Phusion Passenger server. Utilized RHTML, YAML, RJS and Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to outline the site pages.  • Designed api calls with actioncable for live twitter feed.  • Developed front end using Angular.js, React.JS, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, JavaScript, where back end is java with REST webservice.   • Worked on the MySQL migration project to make the system completely independent of the database being used. Used Spring IBatis to implement this.  • Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, JSP, JSON, Angularjs, React.js, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js.  • Developed with Ruby on Rails, SQL DB, Devise, ActionCable in backend; HTML5, JavaScript, CSS and ActionCable in front end  • Involved in Cassandra data modeling going through the phases of creating Conceptual model, Application flow, Logical model, Physical Optimization, Final Physical model.   • Create new PL/SQL stored procedures for new Oracle Forms and Reports development  • Implementing IOC and Dependency Injection features in various aspects of Spring Framework (Core, Web, JDBC, MVC and DAO). Also Developed hibernate mappings to tables using JPA annotations.  • Used REST WebServices for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval  • Configured JMS Server setup and DB Connection pool setup & deployed Returned items in Weblogic.  • Worked on stored procedures, triggers, cursors, DB scheduler, PL/SQL, MySQL and SQL queries   • Developed automation test cases using Java and Junit on Eclipse application.  • Agile/SCRUM was used as the project management methodology and JIRA & Confluence were the tools used to keep things in check.  • Installed and configured the development environment using Web-logic on Windows NT     BACKGROUND SKILLS: Rspec, Ruby, Rails, Redis, HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, Angular.js, AJAX, React.JS, JSON, Dojo, Node.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, D3.js, Java, Capybara, RDBMS, MySQL, JDBC, Web Services, SOAP, REST, Ant, RAD, Agile, Scrum, CVS, Eclipse, Subversion (SVN),Git,Github, Windows , Linux SR. ROR DEVELOPER PITNEY BOWES - Austin, TX August 2013 to May 2016 Pitney Bowes provides customer engagement, customer information management, global e-commerce, location intelligence, and mailing and shipping services to approximately 1 million customers in about 100 countries around the world in 2016.    ACCOUNTABILITIES:    • Developed automation test using Ruby, Jruby, Watir-Rspec for Browser testing, and Cucumber in Ruby for SLT.   • Developed website using Ruby on Rails on Unix/Linux operating system, backed by MySQL, Oracle and Mongo db.   • Responsible for writing code in Object Oriented Programming supported by Ruby on Rails in Agile SCRUM environment.   • Implemented Complex data structures (Sorting, Searching, Stack, Queue, and Link List) for Ruby programming as per client specifications.   • Used Rails , AJAX, JSON, jQuery, Node JS and Angular JS to design the front end of the application. Back end of the application is developed mainly using Active Records.   • Ruby on Rails on Linux operating system, backed by Capistrano and PostgreSQL to automate and ease the deployment process on Phusion Passenger server. RJS, YAML and Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to design web pages.   • Ruby on Rails, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming is used to develop client based features and applications.   • Implementation of Rails back-end for Case Manager on Linux environment.   • Involved in developing and implementation of the web application using Ruby on Rails.   • Working with Ruby gems such as ruby-pg for Oracle- PostGRE-SQL   • Utilized React for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app that searched projects via the GitHub API through keyword.  • Wrote backend programming in Ruby on Rails.   • Participated in a Scrum team and Agile Practices including Test-Driven. Development (TDD),  • Used cucumber Testing tool for TDD and BDD.  • Implemented Webpacker for bundling jquery and other third party library files and babel was implemented to use EcmaScript features.  • Created apps with Turbolinks & Tested platform integration covering 90% of mobile wrappers   • Database modeling and design. Involved in developing and implementation of the web application using Ruby on Rails.   • building a chatting application with Ruby on Rails, ActionCable   • Implementing ROR upgrades and patches and publishing Ruby Gems. Using Ruby Gems.  • Wrote various interfaces to the management system in Ruby on Rails  • Developed and configured the Java beans using Struts MVC and Hibernate.  • Designed RESTful routes and Implemented turbolinks with javascript  • Leading JavaScript Frameworks Team like Angular.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, Node.js.  • Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as JavaScript, jQuery, backbone.js, Node.js AngularJS and Bootstrap.js - Using Subversion for version control.  • Wrote Java programs, performed builds, monitored DB2 data and ran SQL.  • Designed realtime user chatting room with ActionCable/WebSockets.  • Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using Spring, MongoDB, Apache CXF, and JAX-RS.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application.  • OOP in PHP to extend or update functionalities. The project uses MySQL as the database.  • Lead, Designed and Developed SOA enterprise system using Oracle SOA Suite  • Involved in Development of the application Using J2EE Technologies (Servlets, JSP, EJB, JSF, Struts).  • Developed the base framework using Java, JSP, Struts, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Oracle and MS SQL Server.  • Developed SQL queries with PHP Doctrine and Propel to create, retrieve and update data and programming SQL sentences based on CRUD.  • Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, Sencha, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  • Creation of REST WebServices for the management of data using Apache CXF (JAX-RS)  • Utilized Agile Methodology/Scrum (SDLC) to managed projects and team.  • Responsible in configuring and setting-up Apache Tomcat/Spring-TC Server for the development phase.  • Developed HTML, CSS, Javascript and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.   • UsExtensively involved in the development of backend Logics or data access logic using Oracle DB & JDBC.  • Create webservice component using REST, SOAP, WSDL, XML and XSLT to interact with the middleware   • Used XML WebServices using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  • Worked in RDBMS implementation using, SQL, PL/SQL, DB2, MySQL on Oracle database.  • Worked with Oracle RDBMS for writing complex queries and PL/SQL, SQL for Stored Procedures, Triggers and Events, for generating some important responses needed by the application at times.  • Performed Validations on UI data using JSF validators and JavaScript.   • Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux  • Performed Unit Testing and developed Unit Test Classes using JUNIT  • Writing JUnit test/Integration test cases for asserting functional quality.    BACKGROUND SKILLS: Rspec, Ruby, Rails, Redis,HTML, CSS, XML, React.JS, JavaScript, Node.js, JSON, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Java, DB2, PL/SQL, JDBC, Oracle,RDBMS, ActionCable, Turbolinks, MySQL, Webpackerer, SOAP, Web Services, REST, Eclipse, Git, Github, Junit, Agile, Scrum SR. WEB DEVELOPER ASHLAND CHEMICAL - Covington, KY March 2010 to July 2013 Ashland Global Holdings Inc. provides specialty chemical solutions worldwide. Its Specialty Ingredients segment provides products, technologies, and resources for solving formulation and product-performance challenges.    ACCOUNTABILITIES:  • Developed GUI screens for XTT & LD application using JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Development UI modules using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  • Extensive experience in developing Ruby Gems and scripting using Ruby Core, jruby and Ruby Standard Libraries.   • Proficient in design and implemented intranet applications using Ruby on Rails and PostgreSQL on Heroku Cloud Packages and Triggers on databases like MySQL, PostgreSQL and Oracle.   • Developed application in agile development methodology using Ruby on Rails, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, CSS BDD and pair based programming.  • Designed the front end of the application using Rails, CSS, HTML, jQuery and JSON.   • Worked with bash, powershell and ruby scripting. Strong Object oriented development experience in Javascript, Ruby and Python.   • Development using Ruby On Rails, Angular JS, Elastic Search, TDD   • Developed automation test using Ruby, JRuby, Rspec Watir for Browser testing, Cucumber in Ruby for SLT   • Created data validation scripts for data validation (Ruby).   • Created blog posting tool using Ruby on Rails.  • Developed internationalization testing tools, using Ruby, Python and Visual Basic.   • Coded model level validation using Ruby programming with emphasis in web security.   • Front end expertise using HTML and CSS, and also managing Ruby on Rails layouts and views.  • Wrote JavaScript functions to get Dynamic data and Client side validation.  • Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the Javascript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Implemented a Node.js server to manage authentication.  • Created Node.js middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework Worked with JSON objects and JavaScript and JQuery intensively to create interactive web pages.  • Implemented web based front-end using HTML, CSS, JQuery, and AngularJS   • Involved in developing the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  • Set up the deployment environment on Web Logic Developed system preferences UI screens using JSP and HTML.  • Developed web Components using JSP, Servlets and Server side components using EJB under J2EE Environment.  • Rich UI development experience and well versed in client side technologies like AngularJS, jQuery, BackBone.js, Google Widget Toolkit, Sencha UI   • Worked in Java, J2EE, XSL, XML, Oracle, DB2, Struts, spring, Hibernate, REST Web services, Model driven architecture and software configuration management tools.   • Developed HTML, Swing and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.   • Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, Angularjs, JQuery and REST Services   • Designed and implemented UI layer using JSP, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, JSON, XML, XHTML, XSL, XSLT, XSL-FO and business logic using Servlets, JSP, EJBs and J2EE framework.  • Used Backbonejs, Node.js, Bootstrap and other javascript libraries to create intuitive and rich Single Page Applications.   • Used JQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  • Developed Dash-Board to monitor and report Cache Coherence Servers.   • Integrate the ExtJs/Sencha framework with Oracle BPM.   • Prepared statements are used for communication Sql database  • Involved in developing custom taglibs, JSP, EJB's, Portlets and DB2 - stored procedures.  • Involved in Requirement analysis, design and Implementation applying the Water fall model.  • Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  • Integrate the Oracle BPM with the Spring Framework in the enterprise layer.  • Involved in packaging, deployment and upgrade of different modules of SAS on JBoss App Server. VB code Analysis and Sybase store procedure converted into SQL.  BACKGROUND SKILLS: Rspec, Ruby, Rails, Redis,HTML, CSS, Javascript, Ajax, JSON, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Apache Axis, WSDL, Netbeans, JBOSS, Mercurial, Coherence, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, Ant, XML, Jira, Swing, Cognos Web Developer COSTCO - New York, NY February 2008 to February 2010 Costco Wholesale Corporation operates an international chain of membership warehouses, mainly under the "Costco Wholesale" name, that carry quality, brand name merchandise at substantially lower prices than are typically found at conventional wholesale or retail sources.    ACCOUNTABILITIES:  • Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.   • Made the application responsive using Bootstrap.   • Involved in web designing using HTML , CSS, JavaScript and extensively used Table less Design in CSS for positioning.   • After making the applications to be responsive, worked on different mobile devices bugs (like ios and android).   • Developed page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management review.   • Integrated Hibernate ORM with Spring-Hibernate framework to facilitate DML and DQL queries and represent object-database mapping.   • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Jquery.   • Used jQuery to make the HTML, DHTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.   • Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop.   • Used Adobe Experience manager for building websites, mobile apps and forms.   • Developed client-side AJAX application that uses XSLT, XPath, JavaScript OOP, and more Bind objects and retrieve them via JNDI interface.   BACKGROUND SKILLS: J2EE, Java, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, JavaScript, Struts, Hibernate, JUnit, DHTML, WebSphere Application Server, WSAD, Oracle, SQL Developer, TOAD, Spring, WSDL, Axis , tcpmon, Ant, WinCVS, Windows’XP, Aix-Unix. Software Developer Avaya - Durham, NC July 2007 to January 2008 Avaya is an American multinational technology company headquartered in Santa Clara, California that specializes in business communications, specifically unified communications, contact center, and services. It serves organizations at 220,000 customer locations worldwide.     ACCOUNTABILITIES:  • Worked on various UI technologies like JSF, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JSP tag libraries.   • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using JQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, Auto Complete, JSON, Angular JS, JavaScript, Bootstrap.   • Made the web pages Responsive using JQuery UI and bootstrap, which can be operated in both PC's and Mobiles.   • Used advanced JavaScript concepts to validate input fields using regular expression.   • Extensively used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) along with Responsive Web Design (RWD) to support the web page in Mobile browser as well.   • Worked with Spring Batch Used Spring ORM module to integrate with Hibernate.  • Used Bootstrap along with CSS to design web-pages by HTML.   • Used Web services (SOAP and RESTful) for transmission of large blocks of XML/JSON.   • Used Jenkins as continuous integration tool for building archive files and snapshots for all applications.   • Worked on DOM manipulation using JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.   • Added analytics and tagging functionality for all the existing pages to track all the user actions using JavaScript.   • Worked with CSS background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors.   • Tested the application under Scrum (Agile) Methodology.   • Created Test strategy, Test plan, execution plan and Identified test data requirements.   • Worked on major bug fixes, which included UI issues and functionality issues as well  BACKGROUND SKILLS: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, DHTML, DOM, JSON, Bootstrap, AJAX, Adobe Flash, Photoshop, AEM, PLSQL, Oracle, Windows Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering Skills ruby on rails (5 years), ruby (7 years), Java (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), IOS (5 years), Android (5 years), PHP (6 years), Spring (8 years), Hibernate (6 years), Python (5 years), angular.js (5 years), vue.js (3 years), react.js (3 years), HTML (5 years), CSS (5 years)