Sr. UI Developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Developer - Armstrong Industries Lancaster, PA • Over 8+ years of professional experience in all phases of software development life cycle including requirements analysis and debugging, Applications design, Development, Integration, Maintenance, Installation, Implementation, Testing of various client/server, N-tier and web applications.  • Extensive experience in developing professional web based User Interface (UI) to provide best User Experience (UX). With the help of HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, XML and also experience in making webpage Cross browser compatible.  • Developed websites using JavaScript frameworks such as AngularJS and ReactJS.  • Developed Responsive Web Designs (RWD) using Media Queries and Bootstrap.  • Good understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) along with DOM functions and dealt with challenges in High Traffic Websites.  • Experience following W3C standards and validations using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript for node  • Extensive experience in Testing, Debugging and troubleshooting the existing code using Firebug and Chrome Inspector Tools.  • Worked with MVVM pattern and developed view-models using Typescript.  • Extensive knowledge in JavaScript, especially using JQuery and its plugins in AJAX-driven web applications.  • Professional in creating Templates, Mockups and Prototypes, Web Interfaces, Layouts and Flow of Future Pages.  • Strong Experience in Front End Development using Angular.js, D3, SASS, LESS, Node.js, Reactjs, Bootstrap.  • Experience in consuming web services i.e., RESTful for updating dynamic functionality of HTML in JQuery, JavaScript, and AngularJS.  • Sound understanding and good Experience with Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript, Object Oriented Design and Implementation.  • Experienced in using Front End editors like Dreamweaver, Eclipse, Brackets, Espresso, Text Mate, Sublime Text2 and Microsoft Expression Web.  • Experience working in Agile, Waterfall (SDLC Methodologies) and Scrum environments.  • Experience in utilizing JavaScript libraries, frameworks, template systems and platforms including Node.JS, Knockout/ AngularJS/ ReactJs and jQuery.  • Experience in designing web applications employing Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques and Search Engine Strategies (SES). Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. UI Developer Armstrong Industries - Lancaster, PA December 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developing web pages using JSP and Servlets for the approved HTML5 prototypes.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS 3.0 and JavaScript  • Good knowledge in developing the designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Design and programming experience with Front-end Web Technologies including Bootstrap, Responsive Design, Font Awesome, Balsamiq and Flinto.  • Created SSRS Report for patient's Billing summary and Appointment Information.  • Lead UX Designer, building an A-caliber group of interaction designers and user-experience Wire frame Design.  • Designated UI architecture for the internal web application and worked with designers to constructs conceptual Wireframes and Mockups.  • Used Redux API calls to make request to the backend and fetch the data in JSON format.  • Designed and built an isomorphic web application from scratch using ReactJS , Webpack, ES6 and Redux.  • Closely worked with Application using React.js libraries NPM, gulp directories to generate desired view and flux to root the URL's properly  • Worked closely with engineers implementing RESTful micro services into the front-end.  • Development of Node.js RESTful API application in Typescript.  • Development of static web pages, landing pages, category landing pages using a content management system, Adobe CQ5.  • Build out applications using React.js, Used Polymer.js to create Views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data to/from server.  • Deployed application to Azure Cloud.  • Design SAML propagation between the different identity provider and service provider.  • Used Require.JS, Backbone.JS, and JQuery to create multiple Java Script applications.  • Developed web applications using a MVC, MVC2 (Model View Controller) design.  • AWS cloud watch was used for monitoring, customized metrics and file logging.  • Worked on Cross Browser Issues for different versions of IE, Mozilla.  • Familiarity with the basic tenets of A/B Testing , Mocha, Chai, and data-driven design    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, ReactJs, ES6, Redux, CSS3, Mongo db, Node JS, require JS, REST ful, D3, JSON, git, TFS, Photoshop, knockout.js, PolymerJs. Sr. UI Developer Ameriprise Financial October 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Closely worked with the customer scrum to build the internal web application.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis, Code development and estimating the time-line for the project.  • Understanding the requirements of the client and the flow of the application as well as the application Framework  • Involved in designing the front end applications using web technologies like HTML/HTML 5, XHTML, and CSS/CSS3.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using TypeScript.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, using $http Services.  • Designed Prototype and project layout skeletons using HTML5 and CSS3  • Used Angular JS built in directives, Controllers and Services and filter functionality to develop UI.  • Currently building internal application to manage business workflow. Angular 2 on the front end and Laravel on the back end. The application streamlines the business processes of setting up a site for A/B testing.  • Involved in writing the front-end code for the application using Angular 4.  • Designed and developed the Presentation layer using Angular 4 and Angular Material.  • Extensive knowledge and working experience of web development technologies such as, JavaScript, jQuery UI, AngularJS, Angular2/4, HTML5, CSS3, SASS and Bootstrap.  • Created TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by angular 2.  • Implemented Angular2 two way data binding.  • Created Angular2 reusable services to inject into the components.  • Used @Input and @Output decorator to pass data between child and parent components.  • Developed custom directives (element, Attributes and classes) using Angular2.  • Rendered HTML from XML stream using XSLT as per the business logic for different widgets.  • Developed E-commerce shopping cart and checkout functionality that requires complex rules and logic and integration with backend systems.  • Good experience in ATG Framework and involved in technical upgrade of E-commerce application.  • Developed new GUI widgets in YUI, JavaScript (ES5&ES6), HTML, CSS3.  • Worked closely with the QA team in resolving defects.  • Created Environment for automation of test cases and setup of CI/CD solutions for GIT repository of different applications. Developed web pages using Forms, Components, Layouts, Events, Validations, Trees, Grids components.  • Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  • Built the I frame Layout for Customer Dashboard Page for Ship to and Contact tabs using bootstrap tabbing and Angular2, also mapped java objects in ship to and contact JSP and hence give user an ability to select ship to and select contact for that customer for current order or create ship to or create contact from customer dashboard page.  • Worked with Jasmine and Karma testing and performed Unit testing and performance testing using Junit.  Environment: Angular.js2.0, Angular 4, Mongo DB, Git, OOJS, WCAG, TypeScript, Bootstrap, HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, JSON, D3, TFS, Restful, Jasmine, Karma and Source Tree. UI Developer CMS Energy - Jackson, MI August 2013 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, $http and JSON.  • Integrated the Java code (API) in JSP Pages.  • Used Angular JS to develop a single page application.  • Used JS tree that provides interactive trees by which we can implement drag & drop with search functionality.  • Good exposure to MEAN (MongoDB, Express, Angular JS, Node.js) full stack programming.  • Involved to create different cross browser compatible user interactive web pages, using web technologies like HTML5, XHTML, and CSS3.  • Worked with Data Tables, a table enhancing plug-in for the JavaScript library, adding sorting, paging, and filtering abilities to plain HTML tables.  • Worked with Vanilla JS, a lightweight cross-platform framework.  • Utilized various JavaScript and AngularJs libraries, Services for form validation and other  Interactive features.  • Used Service and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Expertise in using Twitter Bootstrap Framework responsive design.  • Implemented Angular JS application to follow strict MVC for improved source code maintenance.  • Used $Http in Angular Js for consuming Restful web services.  • Involved in creation of interface to manager user menu and bulk update of attributes using AngularJs and NodeJs.  • Worked extensively on various pages to make them responsive with all kinds of resolutions using bootstrap.  • Developed and contributed to product design specifications and style guides.  • Conducting daily Stand-up calls and participated in KT sessions.  • Creation of mock response and Unit testing the response with database populated values.  • Used Agile Development methodology for the project.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari, Internet Explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.    Environment: HTML5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, Angular Js, JSP, JSON, VanillaJS, NodeJS, MVC Framework, Bootstrap, Adobe Photoshop CS6, Git, UI Developer Webster Bank - Bristol, CT July 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Coded dynamic and browser compatible UI web pages using JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, JQuery, Ajax and responsive design in MVC environment.  • Worked with CSS3 and bootstrap to create Responsive web designs for multiple departments/pages.  • Created animation effects during the data load, waiting for the Ajax response using JQuery.  • Developing web pages using Jsp and Servlets for the approved HTML5 prototypes.  • Implemented scripting with Ajax and XML to dynamically refresh the page contents.  • Worked on JavaScript libraries like Yahoo components for showing the daily reports in calendar format.  • Used JSP, Servlets, and HTML5 to create web interfaces. Developed Java Beans and used custom tag libraries for embedding dynamic into JSP pages.  • Used advanced level of HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts (table less layout).  • Worked on Photoshop for creating effective images and logos.  • Maintaining documents and source code in CVS  • Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages.  • Implemented custom Android Action Bar for use as Android app title bar.  • Worked with various tools like grunt.JS Node.JS bower and yeomen for developing the application.  • Interacted with team lead and QA Testers to resolve the defects in the application  • Co-ordinated with BA group for better understanding of functional requirement analyzed and designed the business requirements to documented and implemented.    Environment: HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, J2EE, UNIX, Hibernate, YUI 2&3, Spring, Servlets, Struts, JSP, XML, AJAX, MySQL, Grunt.JS, Node.JS, polymer, Tomcat 6.0, Eclipse, Windows environment. UI Developer/Designer TIAA-CREF Financial Services - Charlotte, NC June 2010 to July 2011 Responsibilities:  • Used VSS for version control and as code repository.  • Experience working with HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON etc.  • The application was developed using 3-tier architecture.  • Provided Tier3 support for end users and tier 1 and 2 agents. Using Admin roles for technical issues and resolving remote problems.  • Used AJAX for implementing part of the functionality for customer registration, Viw Customer information modules.  • Developed system to Generate reports from Account/Customer Audit History, Account/Customer Maintenance and Transaction Inquiry tracking account failures and correcting errors for further processing.  • Used Razor Views to enable fast coding work flow able, and quickly integrate server code into HTML markup with a minimum of keystrokes.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML, XHTML, CSS, Angular JS and JavaScript.  • Responsible in creating Responsive Web Design and development application using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and Bootstrap.  • Implemented JQuery to validate user controls and web forms.  • Involved in client side and server side programs including scripting, HTML.  • Involved in the applications to generate monthly reports for the data analysis.  • Used content management system using TEAMSITE and XMAN for storing static text and images in the content management database and displaying content from database in the website.  • Used TEAMSITE for configuring webpages and different modules with the webpage.  • Prepared Help & Documentation for Admin/General users.    Environment: HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, Java Script, jQuery, Git, JSON, AJAX. Web Developer/Designer SugarCRM Inc - Cupertino, CA June 2009 to June 2010 Responsibilities:    Coordinated with BA group for better understanding of functional requirements analyzed and    designed the business requirements to documented and implemented.    • Responsible for Design and development of Web pages using PHP, HTML, JOOMLA, CSS    including Ajax controls and XML.    • Coded Business Logic component using PHP.    • Developed UI using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JavaScript validations and XML.    • Implemented applications in JavaScript, and MYSQL.    • Worked extensively with the File management and image libraries.    • Performed Client-side validations using JavaScript.    • Fixed bugs and provided support services for the application.    • Tested/Debugged web browser using Firebug.    • Managed and implemented all codes changes via SVN. Deploying builds across development,    staging and production instances and maintained code integrity.    • Created an inline-edit and widget-collapse feature for the web page.    • Added an inline Video Player feature that supported Quick Time, Window's Media, and Real-    Player.  • Performed graphical design and web site contract work for small business and working    professionals.    • Met one-on-one with clients in exploring the best possible options for their web presence.    Coordinated with BA group for better understanding of functional requirements analyzed and    designed the business requirements to documented and implemented.    • Responsible for Design and development of Web pages using PHP, HTML, JOOMLA, CSS    including Ajax controls and XML.    • Coded Business Logic component using PHP.    • Developed UI using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JavaScript validations and XML.    • Implemented applications in JavaScript, and MYSQL.    • Worked extensively with the File management and image libraries.    • Performed Client-side validations using JavaScript.    • Fixed bugs and provided support services for the application.    • Tested/Debugged web browser using Firebug.    • Managed and implemented all codes changes via SVN. Deploying builds across development,    staging and production instances and maintained code integrity.    • Created an inline-edit and widget-collapse feature for the web page.    • Added an inline Video Player feature that supported Quick Time, Window's Media, and Real-    Player.  • Performed graphical design and web site contract work for small business and working    professionals.    • Met one-on-one with clients in exploring the best possible options for their web presence.    Coordinated with BA group for better understanding of functional requirements analyzed and    designed the business requirements to documented and implemented.    • Responsible for Design and development of Web pages using PHP, HTML, JOOMLA, CSS    including Ajax controls and XML.    • Coded Business Logic component using PHP.    • Developed UI using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JavaScript validations and XML.    • Implemented applications in JavaScript, and MYSQL.    • Worked extensively with the File management and image libraries.    • Performed Client-side validations using JavaScript.    • Fixed bugs and provided support services for the application.    • Tested/Debugged web browser using Firebug.    • Managed and implemented all codes changes via SVN. Deploying builds across development,    staging and production instances and maintained code integrity.    • Created an inline-edit and widget-collapse feature for the web page.    • Added an inline Video Player feature that supported Quick Time, Window's Media, and Real-    Player.  • Performed graphical design and web site contract work for small business and working    professionals.    • Met one-on-one with clients in exploring the best possible options for their web presence.    Coordinated with BA group for better understanding of functional requirements analyzed and    designed the business requirements to documented and implemented.    • Responsible for Design and development of Web pages using PHP, HTML, JOOMLA, CSS    including Ajax controls and XML.    • Coded Business Logic component using PHP.    • Developed UI using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JavaScript validations and XML.    • Implemented applications in JavaScript, and MYSQL.    • Worked extensively with the File management and image libraries.    • Performed Client-side validations using JavaScript.    • Fixed bugs and provided support services for the application.    • Tested/Debugged web browser using Firebug.    • Managed and implemented all codes changes via SVN. Deploying builds across development,    staging and production instances and maintained code integrity.    • Created an inline-edit and widget-collapse feature for the web page.    • Added an inline Video Player feature that supported Quick Time, Window's Media, and Real-    Player.  • Performed graphical design and web site contract work for small business and working    professionals.    • Met one-on-one with clients in exploring the best possible options for their web presence.    • Responsible for design and development of web pages using PHP, HTML, JOOMLA, CSS including AJAX controls and XML.  • Coded business logic component using PHP.  • Developed UI using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JavaScript validations and XML.  • Worked extensively with the File Management and image libraries.  • Performed client side validations using JavaScript.  • Tested/Debugged web browser using Firebug.  • Created an inline-edit and widget-collapse feature for the webpage.  • Added an inline Video Player feature that supported Quick Time, Windows Media and Real Player.  • Performed graphical design and website contract work for small business and working professionals.  • Handled duties ranging from creative design to code implementation.    Environment: JavaScript, PHP 5.0, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Apache, MySQL, Windows 2000/XP MYSQL, JOOMLA. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), BOOTSTRAP (7 years), HTML5 (7 years), JAVA (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Web technologies HTML, HTML5, DHTML, CSS2/3, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, XSL, XSLT, XML and XHTML  JavaScript frameworks jQuery, Angular.js, React.js, Node.js, Bootstrap  Database Oracle9x/10x, MS SQL server, MS ACCESS, SQL.  Operating System Windows (Vista/9x/NT/XP), Win7  Languages JAVA, SQL, PL/SQL  Developer Tools  Web Storm, Eclipse, Net beans, Notepad++, Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Flash Professional + Action Script 2.0/3.0, Microsoft Publisher, Brackets, Toolkit.    Methodologies Waterfall, Agile, Scrum, Design Patterns.  Version Control Tools Git, Concurrent Versions System (CVS), Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Fireworks, Knowledge on ETL tools.  Debugger Tools Chrome Developer toolbar, Firebug, IE Developer toolbar. Unit testing, End to end testing, Jasmine.  Browser IE6, 7,8&9, Microsoft Edge, Firefox, Opera, Chrome 4, Safari 5  Testing Frameworks Qunit, Jasmine, Protactor