IT Administrator IT Administrator IT Administrator Erie, PA An IT NINJA with a strong passion for innovative technology who never stops learning via online courses. Through a lifelong submersion in the technology world, has developed, polished, and refined skills to make every project become a reality in an innovative, strategic, and productive manner. Strong mentality to exceed all expectations, work collaboratively with stakeholders and team members, and efficiently develop top-notch results. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Administrator HOWARD INDUSTRIES - Fairview, PA June 2014 to Present Created and developed several websites exceeding deadline expectations that included E-commerce with Fortune3, ASP.NET MVC Framework, PHP, as well as static HTML/CSS3 sites. Established and maintained email server with both CPanel and PLESK. Built and repaired employee workstations, along with implementing new technology and security practices on the overall network, including printers, file storage, active directory, DHCP, and even bridged networks. Created in-house newsletters to help employees learn tips and tricks to enhance their computer skills. Exploited resources such as Navicat, Constant Contact, Adobe Creative Suite, Viscosity, Microsoft Server 2012, SEMrush, TightVNC, CorelDraw X6, WordPress. IT/ WEB DEVELOPER MCA SOLUTIONS - Jamestown, NY 2009 to 2015 Starting in graphic design, collaborated with MCA Solutions management to thrust web efforts into the modern age. Created marketing solutions that enticed more customers through print designs, digital graphic design, and web development, including content management systems, such as WordPress. Utilized Adobe products extensively in all aspects of this job. IT/ WEB DEVELOPER DVR SYSTEMS - Conneaut, OH 2012 to 2014 Developed and maintained web domains of over one hundred websites along with managing the server using PLESK. Many of these websites were very Google AdSense heavy, creating residual revenue for the company. Developed sites for customers to make SEO goals come to life. Utilized Fortune3, Shopify, and WordPress as well as custom static HTML sites. IT/ WEB DEVELOPER BARBAR NATIONAL INSTITUTE - Erie, PA 2009 to 2011 Developed Joomla content management system website with custom modules using PHP, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS3. Occasionally collaborated and supported marketing department for Email marketing campaigns. Education Mercyhurst University - North East, PA 2006 to 2007 High school or equivalent in Computer Informations McDowell High School - Erie, PA 2002 to 2006 Skills Web Development (10+ years), Wordpress (7 years), Ecommerce (4 years), Adobe (10+ years), Project Management (5 years), Network Management (1 year), SEO (5 years), Graphic Design (10+ years), IT Management (1 year) Links http://bit.ly/2iXALj5 Awards Adobe SkillPath 2015 Adobe SkillPath session in Erie, PA focused on Web Development Google Analytics 2016 Training seminar in Erie, PA focused on the backend of Google Analytics Publications Avonia Tavern Website http://www.avoniatavern.com Hickory Lakes Campground http://www.hickorylakescampground.com Grandpas Castles B&B Website http://www.grandpascastles.com Spiritual Rez Band Website http://www.spiritualrez.com Blanchard Manufacturing Website http://www.blanchardmanufacturing.com Post and Panel Website http://www.postandpanel.com Howard Industries Website http://www.howardindustries.com PRIME Sign Program Website http://www.primesignprogram.com ADA Advantage Website http://www.ada-advantage.com Pedestrian Crossing http://pedestriancrosswalk.com 2019-06