Application Developer Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Application Developer Midland, MI Extensive experience in application development, utilizing a variety of programming languages.    Database design and maintenance utilizing different applications and servers.    Strong history offering adaptive solutions for both colleagues and clients to deliver on exacting requirements for R&D and customer service/sales. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application Developer NTT DATA on assignment at Trinseo, LLC August 2013 to June 2019 • New application development in the Microsoft Azure environment featuring SQL Server database creation, Microsoft .NET solutions   (ASP.NET, C#, MVC, Entity Framework), as well as integration of SAP  web services and security/authentication tasks.    • Enhancements and new features developed for older, legacy applications mainly based on VB.NET.    • Microsoft SQL Server administration, such as SSIS packages, stored procedures, job scheduling, and management of Microsoft web   application servers.    • Multiple migration projects requiring the movement of databases and   applications between environments. Technology Manager Cinderella, Inc September 2009 to August 2013 • Responsible for selecting and implementing all company software, including an ERP system replacement.    • Created eCommerce solutions for transmitting sales orders, invoices, pricing and other data between Cinderella and its customers.    • Designed and administered websites for Cinderella and its partners in addition to the incorporation of in-house software solutions.    • Built and administered SQL, U2 and Access databases. Web Development & Support GameZone.com April 2003 to August 2009 • Designed and implemented new web pages, updated existing pages and managed site content.    • Utilized Visual Basic, JavaScript, ASP and PHP in the creation of web pages.    • Interfaced with Oracle, MySQL and Microsoft Access databases to add new content and perform site maintenance.    • Fostered relationships and responded to the needs of game publishers and other GameZone.com partners and clients. Education Bachelor's in Computer Information Systems Saginaw Valley State University - University Center, MI September 1999 to May 2002 Skills C# (10+ years), SQL Server (10+ years), MVC (6 years), Azure (3 years), Asp.Net (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), JQuery (6 years), Vb.Net (10+ years), XML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Security (10+ years), Ecommerce (10+ years), Sharepoint (10+ years), Windows Server (10+ years), Web Services (10+ years), Microsoft Access (10+ years), Microsoft Excel (10+ years), Full Stack Development (6 years)