Senior Coldfusion/ Web Developer Senior Coldfusion/<span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Canonsburg, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Coldfusion/ Web Developer emsCharts, Inc - Pittsburgh, PA January 2015 to Present Developed new and maintained existing features in company product suite in Coldfusion and Oracle,  utilizing html5, bootstrap, and jquery  ? Worked with management team to assist the implementation of QA process  ? Led junior developers and QA team in effectively managing an agile workflow Freelance Downie Photography, Inc - Pittsburgh, PA January 2009 to Present PA  ? Developed an inventory management system utilizing PHP, MySQL, Ajax and Jquery for a consignment  shop.    ? Downie Photography, Inc  Cleveland, Ohio  o Designed and developed a photograph management system that views thumbnails, saves  selections, and creates zip files and downloads on the fly, using PHP, MySQL, Ajax, Jquery, and  3 rd party class libraries  o Designed and developed dynamic credit card payment form using PHP, Ajax, Jquery    ? Kuhn's Market  Pittsburgh, PA  o Designed and developed a dynamic media player that generates playlists on the fly using XML and PHP  o Designed and developed dynamic payment forms using MySQL, PHP, Ajax, and Jquery  o Developed a recipe storage and retrieval system using MySQL and PHP Independent Contractor ScheduleStar.com September 2014 to January 2015 Design, layout and code new web pages, sections and utilities in Coldfusion and MySQL, utilizing  CSS3, HTML5 and responsive design  ? Use CFC's and Ajax calls for front-end communication with database with JSON objects  ? Creation of modals through bootstrap Web Developer I Kurt J. Lesker, Inc - Pittsburgh, PA December 2012 to September 2014 Daily Maintenance and upkeep of website  ? Design, layout and code new web pages, sections and utilities in Coldfusion and MySQL, utilizing  CSS3, HTML5, Jquery and responsive design  ? Effectively work with the Marketing team to produce dynamic web applications written in ColdFusion  with MySql, HTML5, CSS3, Jquery and responsive design  ? Assist in the development of international ecommerce websites  ? Implemented source control using Git and TortoiseSVN for the web development team Coldfusion Developer emsCharts, Inc - Pittsburgh, PA July 2007 to December 2012 Improved support ticket response times by streamlining creation and resolution process  ? Responsible for data transmission from our system to state repositories using XML and SOAP using a  3 rd party API  ? Responsible for cross platform data interoperability using XML, SOAP, and JSON  ? Developed new and maintained existing features in company product suite in Coldfusion and Oracle,  utilizing javascript  ? Responsible for the monitoring and maintenance of 7 webservers and 3 database servers in a cluster Tech Support Manager/Engineer Tellurian Networks - Newton, NJ March 2006 to April 2007 Residential Dialup and DSL Tech Support  ? Business Class DSL and T1 Tech Support  ? Website and E-Mail backend creation, de-provision, and support on Windows server 2000 and 2003  environment  ? Router and Switch configuration  ? Dell Server Installation and Configuration  ? Mail and web Server Migration and account transfers Portfolio Https://jnovo22.github.io Education Bachelor of Arts in Computer Science-MIS in Computer Science-MIS Mercyhurst College - Erie, PA February 2006 Skills Ajax (9 years), Coldfusion (10+ years), jquery (10+ years), MySQL (10+ years), PHP (9 years), HTML 5, Javascript, Git Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS  Linux Microsoft Office  Web Design Microsoft Server 2000-2008  JSON/API's Windows  IIS Subversion/Source Control/Git  Networking Active Directory  Jquery/Ajax SQL Server  Coldfusion MySql Server  PHP PL\SQL Developer  AWS Cloud Computing/VPS Administration