Web Application Developer,Software Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> Application <span class="hl">Developer</span>,Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Application Developer,Software Developer - Willow Creek Community Church Barrington, IL • 9+years of experience in Software Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various intranet/internet applications.  • Experience in diverse business sectors including Financial, Telecommunications and IT Services.  • Experience in Microsoft .NET Technologies - .NET Framework 4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0, C#.NET, VB.NET, ASP.NET, and ADO.NET.  • Experience in designing, coding, implementation of Internet/Intranet Applications using ASP.NET, VB.NET, C#.NET, ADO.NET, LINQ, Microsoft SQL Server and IIS 7.5 (Internet Information Services).  • Experience in working with Web Forms, User Controls, and Web Controls using HTML5, DHTML, CSS,CSS3 XML, JavaScript, jQuery6, in Visual Studio.  • Experience working on N-Tier Architectures such as MVC (Model View Controller), MVVM (Model View, View Model) in applications.  • Experience with Azure PaaS Services including Azure Storage, Azure Service Bus, Azure SQL Database, and Azure AppService including WebApps, APIApps and LogicApps.  • to provide both PaaS and IaaS services which supports many different programming languages tools and frameworks.  • Experience with all phases of SDLC in the Waterfall model and Agile (SCRUM) methodologies.  • Experienced in utilizing the new integrated features of ASP.NET 4.5/3.5/3.0 versions like Windows Communication Foundation (WCF), Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF).  • Experience in creating Entity classes and relationships between entity classes.  • Experience in utilizing RAPID APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT (RAD).  • Experience in Data Modeling, Designing and Creating Tables, Views, Stored Procedures, Triggers againstMS SQL Server 2008,SQL Server 2012/2008/2005, T-SQL 8and Oracle 10g PL/SQL relational databases.  • Used BIZTALK to communicate with different software systems used in an enterprise  • Used MVP interface architectural pattern to facilitate automated unit testing and improve the separation of concernsin presentation logic  • Implemented VBAcode in module Windows operating-system functions  • Used MS Access tool to provide both database and programming capabilities in order to create end-user screens.  • Review existing build/development/test lifecycle and refine for Azure.  • Assist/Develop, create & test Azure Environment. Strong web development skills in Azure platform.  • Experience in Design and Development of GUI(Graphical User Interface) using C# Win Forms and ASP.Net Web Forms.  • Experienced with Multithreaded programming to develop multithreaded modules and applications.  • Used REST software architecture style for creating scalable web services  • Experience in building and consuming .NET Web Services using SOAP and REST.  • Used .Net Nuke for a three-tier architecture model with a core framework providing to support the extensible modular structure.  • Experience using Silver Light in creating and using interactive user experiences for Web Application  • Experience in Integration testing ,Junit ,J meter, writing Test cases, Test plans, Bug analysis and fixes.  • Implemented web forms to build dynamic websites and powerful User Interface (UI) driven sites with data access.  • Implemented MVC on server side for handling GUI elements and service layer between front end and data layer.  • Used SSIS component of the MS SQL Server database software that can be used to perform a broad range of data migrated tasks.  • Experience in performing mobile manual testing (Emulators & IOS Simulators) & Mobile Automation Testing using Appium & SeeTest. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Application Developer,Software Developer Willow Creek Community Church - South Barrington, IL April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Perform software analysis, Technical design, development, establish architecture standards and best practices for online web application specific to banking and financial domain.  • Develop the web application using .Net Framework and Angular, which actually helps to maintain one code base for all the web applications in a responsive way.  • Develop the web application using tools like Visual Studio with industry-leading technologies like Angular JS, HTML5 and CSS3.  • Develop unit test web applications using NUnit, Visual Studio and .net Frameworks 3.5-4.5, Angular JS, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Design and recommend methods & techniques for addressing accessibility (A11y) requirements. Implement W3C standard code so that application runs smoothly when accessibility features are enabled.  • Test accessibility applications using tools like JAWS 18.0, NVDA 2018.2.1  • Use SOAPUI which covers web service inspection, invoking, development, mocking & functional testing.  • Prepare build scripts and deploy the application build using Team Foundation Server (TFS).  • Participate in monthly/Quarterly release deployment on production servers.  • Designing and working on N tier architecture applications cutting across UI, Business Logic Layer along with service-oriented architectures (SOA) and Web API.  • Interact with business SMEs, business architects to gather requirement details and involve in application Architecture designing and developing services using Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) consumed by other related applications.  • Work with tools like Version One to track the status of the requirements from start to end. Also using this tool track the Capacity, Velocity and Burned down Chart of the project.  • Be responsible for identifying and managing technical risks/issues at Project level.  • Provide business consulting services related to operational processes and best practices. Sr.Net Developer, HC DIG-WFM Innovation on Premise Solutions GE Healthcare - San Diego, CA December 2016 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developing the Centricity Time and Attendance Staffing & Scheduling tool generally called as TASS web portal.  • TASS portal is used to track the check-in and check-out timings of the staff in the hospitals.  • We are using ASP.Net framework and build the TASS Mobile application using C# language.  • Building a prototype Azure Data Lake application that accesses 3rd party data services via Web Services/Mobile System. The solution dynamically scales, automatically adding/removing cloud-based compute, storage and network resources based upon changing workloads  • We are using web application server (WAS), Shared Access Signature(SAS) and Access Control Service(ACS) to connect to the AZURE web portal and create out team relay's (WCF_GriffinRellay)  • We are creating a Mobile application which is connected between Integration Tier and Application Tier (Client Side) using an mediator called Service Bus.  • Implemented Source code using C#.Net with 4.0 .Net Framework.  • Built SPA with loading multiple views with help of NodeJS and Angular.  • Used Angular components like Controller, Directives, Services & Forms to collect the input from user.  • Designed user interfaces for the web using XHTML.  • Used MS Access tool to provide both database and programming capabilities in order to create end-user screens.  • Used REST software architecture style for creating scalable web services.  • Built dynamic web view applications using ANGULARJS  • Rehearsed Agile Methodology with a specific end goal to survey advance of venture in month to month runs.  • We use GUI platform application called Postman to build the API requests through testing.  • For testing the web services, we use an HTTP client called Postman, which intend used for constructing requests and response between the Integration Layer and Application Layer.  • Demonstrated ability to work actively using Agile methodologies (SCRUM-TDD) in multi-tier web-based architecture.  • Worked in an Agile Methodology (Scrum) to meet timelines with quality deliverables.  • Working on Azure Logic apps, Service Bus, Document DB and SQL Database. .Net Developer Tempe, AZ April 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Mainly focused on the internal project using the VB.Net for code modifications as per the user requirement.  • Maintained day-to-day production data and reporting the workflow in the daily Stand-up's.  • Handled all the production based issues by providing the Database scripts for updating the data in the prod database.  • Maintained to run the scheduled tasks in the task scheduler in the Test, Dev & Prod servers.  • Used an revision control system called PERFORCE(P4V) to create & manage the workspaces.  • A Continuous integration server called Jenkins has been used for pushing the code changes to the repository by build & deploying the code.  • Have good control on the Database scripts to check the new production data and their record state.  • Used VDI server to access the production server to monitoring the log files of the applications when the tasks where executed.  • Used for HTTP Request composer that makes it easy to call web services  • Kept up high level of competency over the Microsoft Application Platform, concentrating on .NET Framework, WCF and Windows Azure.  • Planning on information demonstrating for .NET utilizations of new undertakings and investigating high and low level outlines  • Engaged with building up the prerequisite with C# 4.0, ASP.NET 4.0, WCF and Web benefits in .Net 4.0 Technologies, SSIS bundles and unit testing, framework testing and discharge administration  • Utilized SQL Server 2012 Standard Edition for database.  • Composed put away systems with complex SQL inquiries.  • Associated with composing test designs and composing test contents for Unit Testing.  • Settled QA bugs for front end and back end.  • Rehearsed Agile Methodology with a specific end goal to survey advance of venture in month to month runs.  • Imported information from level records to SQL Server database utilizing SSIS.  • Written put away systems in SQL server.  • Involved underway help and settling creation issues.  • Utilized VB.NET to create code for business and vault layer.  • Involvement in doing specialized level help, perusing code, and SQL Running SQL content to confirm/approve information Sr.Net Developer Hydrochem - Missouri City, TX June 2014 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked on front end web application.  • Involved in coding member validation business functionality using WCF and client front end layers using WPF and Silverlight.  • Used the latest WPF/XAML vector based UI framework  • The front end and WCF to implement the various services such as the QA Services.  • Used WCF services for communicating with Microsoft SCCM (System Center Configuration Manager) server. One of the purposes was for license management.  • Used List, Trees, Toolbars, Menus and Context Menus for navigating between pages in Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF).  • Implemented MVC on server side for handling GUI elements and service layer between front end and data layer  • Working on our Ipad based application using various IOS design patterns (MVC, Delegation, Target-action and Slide-out Navigation).  • Maintained high degree of competency across the Microsoft Application Platform, focusing on .NET Framework, WCF and Windows Azure.  • Creating applications using VB.NET and enhancing projects for .NET applications.  • Designingon data modeling for .NET applications of new projects and reviewing high and low level designs.  • Utilized ASP.NET MVC Page Controller pattern to add functionality to individual pages such as to accept input from the page request, invoke the requested actions on the controller.  • Involved in developing the requirement with C# 4.0, ASP.NET 4.0, WCF and Web services in .Net 4.0 Technologies, SSIS packages and unit testing, system testing and release management  • Involved in testing UI design and workflow of the application.  • Performed Unit Testing and Testing post deployment on Development Environment.  • Involved throughout in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process  • Involved in Design, Coding and testing phases of the project.  • Practiced Agile Methodology in order to review progress of project in monthly sprints.  • Designed the application as 3-tier architecture with extensive use of Object Oriented programming techniques.  • UsedJqueryin designing and to navigate a document.  • Worked on Agile and continuous integration methodologies.  • Used Agile methodology for software development.  • Used VB.NET to develop code for business and repository layer.  • Implemented VBA to control many aspects of the host application, including manipulating user interface features.  • Used MVP interface architectural pattern to facilitate automated unit testing and improve the separation of concerns in presentation logic.  • Designed user interfaces for the web using XHTML.  • Used Ms Access tool to provide both database and programming capabilities in order to create end-user screens.  • Used REST software architecture style for creating scalable web services.  • Built dynamic web view applications using ANGULARJS  • Experience using Silverlight in creating and using interactive user.  • Used Biztalk Server in order communicate with different software systems used in an enterprise  • Good Experience with ACCUSOFT,REST  • Implemented VBAcode in modeling Windows operating-system functions.  • Used SSIS component of the MS SQL Server database software that can be used to perform a broad range of data migrated tasks.  • Experience in doing technical level support, reading code, and SQL Running SQL script to verify/validate data  • Implemented web forms to build dynamic websites and powerful User Interface (UI) driven sites with data access  • Improved maintainability and made the web application more modular by refactoring the existing mobile web code using AngularJS.  • Experience in using AngularJS,ability to test views and able to do end to end unit testing. Also, using continuous integration.  • Used collections, interfaces, abstract classes to implement the project and also worked with the Exception Handling.  • Experience Working on, MVVM (Model View, View Model) in applications.  • Used JS as part of web browsers whose implementations allow client-side scripts to interact with the user.  • Experience Working on Windows 8  • Familiar with several design patterns such as Iterator, Single Responsibility, Dependency Injection, etc.    Environment:.NET Framework 4.6,VB.Net, AJAX, HTML5,CSS3 6, LINQ , JavaScript ,bootstrap.js, Backbone.js & Angular.js 8 framework, jQuery6,Junit,Jmeter,ADO.NET, WCF, WPF,JSON6, SQL SERVER 2012 ,SSIS, BDIS,EAI T-SQL 8,Visual Studio 2013 , IIS 8. Silverlight. .Net Developer UHG OPTUM - Eden Prairie, MN April 2012 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Extensive development using ASP.NET, VB.NET Web Forms using AJAX, Master Pages, Themes, Web Parts, Provider Model, JavaScript. Also involved in proof-of-concept using ASP.NET Model-View-Controller, MVC pattern.  • Designed and developed static and dynamic pages validating client side and Server side scripts.  • Worked on SSIS Packages for the extraction of data and schedule the jobs to run on daily Feed basis  • Created various reports like tabular reports, matrix reports, and parameterized reports using SSRS.  • Used JQuery, ASP.NET, AJAX toolkit controls and CSS to enhance the performance and richness to the user interface.  • Worked on developing Web API Restful services and are consumed by services clients.  • Developed Test Plans and Test Cases and involved in Unit Testing, Integration Testing and Bug fixing.  • Used AGILE SCRUM methodology to deliver in sprints, Code Review Meetings and retrospective meeting actively. Involved in REST Service testing using soap UI.  • Development using Public Cloud providers such as AWS or Azure  • Planning to rewrite windows application into web application wherein involved in creating POC in technologies like HTML5 or ASP.net 4.0 with MVC.  • Developing WCF services and consuming them in WPF and class library applications.  • Designed and developed WCF Web Services and configured our WCF Services with appropriate endpoints for consuming them in the web application.  • Developed User controls using ASP.NET and C# and used them dynamically in the web pages using Master pages and CSS.  • Designed MVC design pattern for ASP.NET application development using the ASP.NET, MVC framework.  • Involved in full life cycle of the project from requirements gathering, analyzing, designing, and developing the application using Iterative AGILE Methodology.  • Created and developed internal AngularJS framework application projects.  • Involved in developing front end web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and AngularJS.  • Responsible for design and creating user interface screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Created single page applications using AngularJS,Implemented MVC architecture using AngularJS  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, AngularJS, Node JS, Backbone JS, jQuery and JavaScript.  • Involved with the client team to design and implement the advanced technologies WCF, SOA, ASP.NET, and VB.NET with the application logic in C #according to the user requirements.  • Consumed some external Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) Services to write logs to the database.  • Involved in front end Application development using in ASP.NET, AJAX using C#, and back end in SQL Server 2008.  • Used ASP.NET web server controls like Grid View, List View and Repeater for displaying the required information.  • Created Rest full API's using MVC4 Web API's.  • Used the Object Oriented Programming (OOP) techniques and created classes (C#.NET) for database access.  • Developing Web forms and windows forms for concerned applications.  • Created Dropdown and Drill through reports using SSRS.  • Imported data from flat files to SQL Server database using SSIS.  • Written stored procedures in SQL server.  • Involved in production support and fixing production issues.    Environment: Visual studio 2010, C#, ASP.NET 4.0, VB .NET,MVC, LINQ, WCF, SSIS, SSRS, MS SQL 2008, JQuery, IIS 7.0, CSS, XML, HTML, SSIS, SSRS, Team Foundation Server(TFS) and Agile. .Net Developer Sutherland Global Services - Pittsford, NY May 2011 to March 2012 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Webpages using ASP.NET, C#.NET, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery CSS and server controls.  • Developed secure login interfaces with ASP.NET Server controls.  • Designed and developed user interfaces using VB.NET and ASP.NET.  • Configure TCP Protocol, Transport Level Security in WCF Service.  • Developed dynamic work flow process using ASP.NET 1.1, VB.NET and SQL Server 2008.  • Utilized C# generics, delegates, events, extension methods, anonymous types, and lambda expressions.  • Created and deployed Web Services using ASP.NET and C#.Net, and generated the proxy class files based on the web services to consume in web application.  • Implemented Catalog Search functionality using Azure Search & Document DB.  • Created Proxy for Client Application using SvcUtil tools and also used as Service Reference.  • Implemented Windows Authentication in WCF to consume the Service as application is used in intranet.  • Responsible for developing Contract and Fund Screens, this contains core business logic for the SVP application.  • Implemented simulator for Mobile App Testing in Android Platform and iOS Platform using Appium and SeeTest.  • Perform unit and integration testing for various applications using C++, Shell Scripting.  • Implemented Data driven testing, cross browser testing and parallel testing using selenium WebDriver, TestNg and Selenium Grid. Also implemented automation framework using Selenium.  • WCF service development and testing.  • Proficient in creating Services and Endpoints using WCF (Windows Communication foundation).  • Implemented service oriented component (SOA) Layer using C#.net and WCF to decouple the UI with BL.  • Used AngularJS to make the D3JS charts and Chart JS for date and number validations.  • Worked on Agile and continuous integration methodologies.  • Involved in Unit testing AngularJS applications.  • Created a shared library on JavaScript, which can be shared across different applications and used various frameworks on the client side like AngularJS.  • Extensively used MVC for the designing on multiple devices.  • Developed Custom Controls and User controls for reusable part of the web pages using C# with ASP.NET.  • Involved in testing like Unit test, Integration test, Acceptance test and Regression testing using NUnit and responsible for writing test scripts and scenarios.  • Created Rest full API's using MVC4linq's.  • Written the business logic in classes using VB.NET / C#.Net language and used in WebForms.  • Worked with AJAX enabled WCF services using VB.NET, C# and ASP.NET.  • Maintained and enhanced existing software by analyzing and identifying areas for optimization and refactoring. Investigated new technologies and techniques and researched ongoing industry developments using OOPs.  • Developed test-driven development (TDD) strategy guiding use of the Nunit unit testing framework.  • Extensively used ADO.NET objects like Sql Data Access, Sql Data Reader, COBOL, and DB2 SQL.  • Developing reports on SSRS on SQL Server (2000/2005/2008), and excellent in SSIS packages for integrating data.  • Developed Server side and Client side code using ASP.Net, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Created Views by applying complex queries on multiple tables to create the virtual tables and implemented Cursors in Stored Procedures using SQL Server Implemented Joins in Stored Procedures to get the desired data by joining multiple tables.  • Used (Team Foundation Server) for source code control, project related document sharing and team collaboration.  • Developed parameterized SQL queries and stored procedures to query database tables in T-SQL.  • Designed and developed applications using VB.NET, ASP.NET with ADO.NET, and SQL 2008.  • Responsible for testing, fixing the bugs and troubleshooting the technical problems.  • Modified applications according to the user's requirements.  Environment: ASP.NET 3.5/4.0,C#.Net, ADO.NET, JavaScript, CSS, HTML,IIS, LINQ , XML, XSD, VB.NET, NUnit, AJAX, JQuery, MVC, SOA, SQL Server 2008, WinForms, HTML and DHTML. .Net Developer San Antonio, TX June 2009 to April 2011 Responsibilities:  • Created the user interface for all the static and dynamic pages.  • Coded application logic in ASP.NET using VB.Net as code behind  • Designed end user interface using Web-forms in ASP.NET with various Validations Controls.  • Developed business logic components as a middle-tier between database and the UI for Billing and order management modules.  • Determined source data (input), maintenance, documentation and testing of the application.  • Involved in Requirements, Analysis, Design, Development, Deployment, Testing, and Go-Live stages of the project.  • Involved in using all the best features of ASP.NET including Dataset, Data View and Data Adapter.  • Instrumental in maintenance of data integrity in back end Oracle 9i.  • Developed programs of database components including Stored Procedures.  • Involved in the database design and designed tables  • Implemented XML Web Services using C#.NET.  • Coded and optimized ADO.NET for data access.  • Consumed Web Service for searching the files and logging into the application at the company.  • Designed and implemented MS SQL Server 2005 Database.  • Developed data layer logic for user logging which lets user to access the specified services.  • Ability to work with functional teams in an agile environment.  • Involved in SCRUM meetings.  • Involved in Maintenance of the Web-Application.  Environment:ASP.NET 2.0, VB.Net, Web-Services, Windows XP Professional, ADO.NET, SQL SERVER 2005, Visual Studio.NET 2005, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Visual Source Safe. Education Bachelor's Skills .net, Visual studio, C#, C++, Git, Angular.js, Jenkins, Winforms, Orm, Vb.net, Xml, Asp, Internet information server, Iis, Asp.net, Ms sql server, Ms sql server 2008, Sql server, Sql server 2008, Sql Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages: C, C++,C#, ASP.NET, VB.NET, HTML5, XML,CSS3, WinForms, Java Script, JSON6.  Microsoft Technologies: .NET Frameworks (4.6/4.5/4.0/3.5), Angular.js framework. Visual Studio (2017/2015/2012/2010). MS-Office  Databases: MS SQL Server 2008, SQL Server (2012/2008/2005)  ORM: Entity Framework.  Webservers: Internet Information Server 7.5 (IIS)  Operating Systems: Windows 8/7/NT/95/98/2000/XP  Version Controls: Team Foundation Server 2013, Perforce, GIT  CI tools: Jenkins