Manager, Advertising Manager, Advertising Marketing Professional Tampa, FL Marketing professional with extensive multichannel marketing experience. Skilled in driving consumer engagement to build brand awareness and promote revenue growth. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Manager, Advertising Seminole Hard Rock Hotel & Casino Tampa - Tampa, FL January 2016 to Present • Develop strategies and manage advertising for a 250-room hotel (562 additional guest rooms to be fully available in Oct 2019) and 6thlargest casino in the U.S.: Lead a team of three in planning and executing (1) a consumer advertising program comprising digital, print, radio/TV and outdoor campaigns, (2) in-house marketing (such as signage, restaurant menus and casino promotions), (3) marketing support to HR department in building a workforce of 5,000, and (4) creative support to PR team.  • Plan and control the FY 2019 advertising budget of $3.5M and projected FY 2020 budget of $7.5M.  • Direct multimedia advertising projects and manage relationships with a creative agency, a media buying agency, print vendors and photographers: Develop concepts and scopes of work; manage RFQ processes. Provide content and collaborate with creative agency in art direction and market segmentation. Approve all messaging and marketing pieces.  CONTRIBUTIONS AND ACHIEVEMENTS  • Completed planning of the $7.5M FY 2020 budget allocation to advertise the property expansion and new amenity offerings to a greatly expanded market—from Central Florida to the entire Southeast U.S. region.  • Contributed to a revenue expansion of 6% from FY 2017 to FY 2018.  • Collaborated with corporate hotel revenue team in maintaining a hotel occupancy rate of 85-95%.  • Launched the Hard Rock Social Casino app, which generated $1+M in its debut year.  • Managed radio, billboard and TV advertising for Oct 2019 sellout onsite concerts featuring Keith Urban (country singer) and Smokey Robinson (Motown singer).  • Minimized disruption of heavy construction activities at the casino by providing engaging promotional signage, wall wraps and fence mesh banners.  • Increased project turnaround by 12% by streamlining internal creative and review processes (2016-2017).  • Managed photoshoot and print production for the annual Hard Rock print calendar, which is sold on property, with 100% of the proceeds going to Tampa-based charities. Internet Marketing Specialist Seminole Hard Rock Hotel and Casino - Tampa, FL November 2014 to December 2015 • Managed newly launched website: Responsible for content and creative updates.Wrote WordPress plug-ins for blog platform.    MAJOR ACHIEVEMENTS  • Increased click engagement on homepage by 200% utilizing A/B testing and analytics.  • Reduced report generation time by training Marketing Analysis team in advanced Excel programming techniques.  Web Designer University of Louisville - Louisville, KY May 2013 to November 2014 • Executed web marketing strategies developed in partnership with senior-level university executives, academic deans and department directors: Planned and implemented digital programs designed to meet enrollment and donation goals.  • Trained staff on the Plone content management system (CMS).    ACHIEVEMENTS  • Developed a standard website template, then migrated and integrated 50+ School of Medicine websites to a single platform (for use on desktop and mobile devices). In addition, created new websites for the School of Dentistry and the School of Nursing, migrating and integrating the existing websites for each school.  • Created a tool (spider bot web crawler) to assist in migration and integration of School of Medicine websites, thereby eliminating repetitive, time-consuming tasks.  • Improved SEO and increased public awareness of faculty’s dual role in medical education and clinical practice by creating links between each physician’s pages on "School of Medicine” and “UofL Physicians” websites. Director, Web Services Ohio Valley Wrestling - Louisville, KY September 2010 to November 2014 • Developed a new website to increase revenue, improve fan attachment, and increase online engagement: Expanded talent relevance by creating dedicated bio pages. Introduced e-commerce to sell weekly television tapings and monthly shows. Engaged viewers with staff-written articles.  • Directed television episodes and led the control room during pre-production meetings, television production, and post-production editing: Communicated with three camera operators, collaborated with show writers on best camera angles, and directed in-room audio engineer.  • Expanded and managed the technology of the television control room: Improved efficiencies in live television production, as well as in post-production editing and distribution.Introduced a wired communication system that enabled reliable communication between camera operators and the control room. Website Coordinator University of Louisville - Louisville, KY July 2007 to April 2013 • Managed and coordinated content on five websites (200+ pages) for four academic departments and Planetarium.  • Designed, wrote code for, launched and managed content of web applications, including:Faculty and Staff Directory, Registration for Children’s Programs at the Planetarium, Providers Network Directory for the Autism Center, and lobby TV public information system.     ACHIEVEMENTS  • Designed and launched a new College of Education website on the new Content Management System (CMS).  • Established a website for the College of Education Accreditation Committee to populate with their findings, which played a strategic role for the 2008 renewal of accreditation by the National Council for Accreditation of Teacher Education (NCATE).  • Designed and developed the Planetarium’s interactive registration website, which accepted and managed applications for children’s programs throughout the calendar year. Education BS in Science Pennsylvania State University-Main Campus 2002 to 2006 Minor in Mathematics Pennsylvania State University-Main Campus 2002 to 2006 Skills HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), Management (8 years), Marketing (10+ years), Search Engine Optimization (10+ years), Display Advertising (4 years), Search Engine Marketing (6 years), Adobe (10+ years), Web Development (10+ years), Web Design (10+ years), PHP (10+ years), Radio (4 years), Excel (10+ years), Marketing Strategy (7 years), Google Analytics (8 years), SEO (5 years), Indesign (4 years), P&L Management (3 years), Cost Reduction (4 years), Budgeting (4 years), Team Building (7 years), Training & Development (5 years), Advertising (5 years), Digital Marketing, Graphic Design, MS Office