AEM Functional Consultant AEM Functional Consultant AEM Functional Consultant - Computer Futures, Adobe Consulting Services Abilene, TX Work Experience AEM Functional Consultant Computer Futures, Adobe Consulting Services - Abilene, TX October 2016 to Present • Modeled and helped plan clients Adobe Experience Manager (AEM) projects, by envisioning their goals and facilitating the best solutions and outcomes.  • Consulted and collaborated with developers to deliver quality products through writing scrum user stories and managing projects.  • Designed and Organized asset taxonomy, folder structure, user permissions to enhance business processes and usability.  • Coordinated conversation to understand clients asset lifecycles and internal workflows to create the ideal strategy for the client to succeed with their goals. Project Manager/ Web Application Developer University Marketing, Abilene Christian University - Abilene, TX June 2013 to Present • Developed and administered the AEM instance for the university's website.  • Coordinated and managed agile development and design with internal and external technology partners.  • Provided technical support for users to teach and understand the authoring environment.  • Facilitated web site and asset architecture and aided the university's online and mobile strategy. Adjunct Faculty Abilene Christian University and California Baptist University 2007 to 2018 • Taught the following courses: Gallery Methods, Basic Drawing, Figure Drawing and Printmaking.  • Adapted course materials to promote experiential learning of both traditional and contemporary issues.  • Mentored students in order to support their personal and professional development. Web Application Developer Graduate School of Education and Psychology, Pepperdine University - Los Angeles, CA 2010 to 2013 • Utilized various coding languages to build new web applications and redesign existing ones in order to enhance school's web presence.  • Identified problems, investigated solutions, and implemented best practices to construct and design effective web pages. Web Designer and IT Assistant Bowers Museum of Cultural Art - Santa Ana, CA 2004 to 2007 • Oversaw and coordinated museum's audio visual equipment for lectures and events.  • Implemented new designs and integrated best practices for updating the museum's website. Education Master of Fine Art in Painting California State University Fullerton May 2006 Bachelor of Fine Art in Painting and Drawing Abilene Christian University May 2003 Certifications/Licenses Certified ScrumMaster (CSM) November 2017 to November 2020