JavaScript Web App Developer JavaScript <span class="hl">Web</span> App <span class="hl">Developer</span> JavaScript Web App Developer - Novetta Goodyear, AZ A position as a full stack, JavaScript software engineer. Work Experience JavaScript Web App Developer Novetta June 2016 to Present • Migrate application continuous integration environment from Jenkins to CircleCi, AWS and Docker. Configure, build, and push Docker images to AWS ECR using AWS-cli. Deploy applications as CentOS RPMs using RPM spec files and github-release.    • Re-implement an ExtJS web app in React. Use Redux predictable state container to store application state. Use Golang server to access Cassandra and Postgres databases. Manage development using Git, Node.js, and Yarn. Collaborate using Github and Jenkins. Develop and deploy on Linux platforms.    • Re-implemented a legacy web app from jQuery to Angular2 and Typescript. Managed development using Git, Node.js, NPM, Angular-cli and Sinopia. Used Redux predictable state container to store application state. Did test driven development using Jasmine, Karma and Protractor. Fixed bugs in legacy application using Python, jQuery and Oracle12i technologies. Collaborated using Jira, Confluence and Kanban standup meetings. Developed and deployed on Linux platforms. Software Developer Connexta July 2015 to April 2016 Added new browser UI features using Marionette.js, Bootstrap, Backbone.js, Underscore, Require.js, jQuery, Cesium.js, OpenLayers, Firebug, Chrome Developer Tools, HTML and CSS. Optimized server side XML processing using JMeter and Java multi-threading. Enhanced document processing by adding features to the Apache Karaf OSGI deployment container. Test backend using JUnit. Tested browser UI using Node.js, Grunt, various web drivers, VirtualBox and old Windows/IE images. Managed software using Intellij, Bash, GIT, Maven, NPM and Bower. Worked remotely and collaborated using Skype, Slack, ScreenHero, Github, Jira and Confluence. Developed on Mac OSX and deployed to various platforms. Software Developer Booz Allen Hamilton July 2014 to July 2015 Migrated application, platform and dependencies from Java 7, JBoss 6 and Spring 3.2 to Java 8, Wildfly 8 and Spring 4. Retrofitted database integration testing with Junit, H2 embedded database and Spring Data JPA. Designed and implemented a persistence transaction strategy using JPA, Hibernate and Spring. Implemented new features by redesigning relational schema and domain object model using JPA 2.1 and Hibernate 3. Designed and implemented a scalable, multi-tier admin CRUD framework using custom Java annotations, JSON serializers, jQuery, jQuery Grid, JavaScript and CSS. Patched Oracle 10G database with custom PL/SQL scripts and SQL Developer. Managed development environment using Eclipse, Maven, SVN, Bash and PowerShell scripting. Developed a web app in Windows and deployed to Solaris environment. Web Application Developer Navstar April 2013 to July 2014 • Customized three Joomla (PHP) based websites. Modified Joomla (PHP) code to integrate SOLR/Lucene text search and expanded data tagging capabilities. Tailored browser user interfaces with jQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap and CSS. Administered Apache HTTPD server and rewrote search engine friendly URLs.    • Maintained web application using PHP, Yii MVC framework, jQuery, JavaScript and CSS. Implemented database using Oracle 10g, SYBASE Adaptive Server Enterprise and SQL Developer. Added new features like SOLR/Lucene text search and user interfaces to support collaborative user groups. Maintained web application and databases on multiple classified networks. Managed web/database application instances while developing new system enhancements. Refactored database and web application architecture using best practices and well-known design patterns. Worked with domain stakeholders to clarify and redefine project requirements. Provided technical support to end users. Software Developer XORSecurity January 2013 to April 2013 Created XML data models that support the automated exchange of cyber security information between cyber security centers. Created a National Information Exchange Model (NIEM) conformant Structured Threat Information Expression (STIX) schema using XML and XML Schema Definition (XSD). Aggregated various schemas including Cyber Observables (CybOX), Malware (MAEC), Threat Information Exchange (TAXII) and Attack Patterns (CAPEC). Created XSLT stylesheets using Oxygen XML editor and SaxonEE Java XSLT library. Managed development source code with Git and Github. Coordinated the development of data models with domain stakeholders. Integrated XSD schema definitions and XSLT stylesheets into a distributed, Java-based pub/sub messaging architecture. Used an agile, scrum development methodology. Software Developer PRO-telligent May 2012 to November 2012 Built JEE web app components to support information discovery and sharing. Integrated HTTPS security using OpenSSL, Java Keytool, Apache HttpComponent API, Spring RESTTemplate, Tomcat and Jetty. Integrated a SOLR service façade, that supports indexing and searching, using the Solrj client API. Tested builds with JUnit, Mockito, Springockito and PowerMock. Generated a browser UI with GWT, GWTP and Spring MVC. Persisted data to a Microsoft SQL database via JPA and Hibernate. Managed development environment with Eclipse, Maven, Artifactory, and SVN. Used an agile, scrum development methodology. Environment: Java EE6, EJB3, JPA, Tomcat. Software Developer Invertix Corporation October 2011 to May 2012 Implemented a GUI interface in a browser environment using JavaScript, jQuery, ExtJS, HTML, AJAX, and CSS. Developed data visualizations using D3, a JavaScript and SVG library. Developed Java Servlet to support the agile/iterative development cycle. Used tools like VMware Player, Windows 7, Ubuntu 11, Tomcat, Eclipse, Maven, Ant, SVN, TortoiseSVN, and Firebug. Computer Scientist Naval Surface Warfare Center 2007 to October 2011 • Re-designed and re-implemented a GUI menu controller subsystem from C code to Java. Supported both legacy Motif and Java Swing applications. Used threads, sockets, JNI, reflection, generics, RMI, NIO, XML and design patterns. Did cross-platform development from Solaris host system to Linux target system. Implemented a build system using Ksh, Bash, Perl, and Make that supports multiple developers. Maintained several versions of software, targeted for VxWorks platform, used Dimensions for problem reports and DOORS for requirement and design documents. Solved race condition and memory corruption problems.    • Transformed a large set of Visual Studio build system files into CMake build system files with a Ruby program. Used the CMake build system to port a large C++ graphics application from Windows to Linux. Used Subversion to manage source code.    • Maintained and fixed bugs for a Java Swing library application driving an Oracle database, using the Eclipse IDE and Oracle JDeveloper. Built many Bash, Ksh, Sed, Awk and Perl programs to support development environment.    • Created a user interface using Motif and the X-Window System. Built a GUI-based test program with GNU Flex to do regular expression parsing in C. Used a software design document as input to test a classification algorithm. Education Bachelor of Computer Science in research University of Mary Washington - Fredericksburg, VA December 2008 Skills Javascript (8 years), Linux (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), HTML (8 years), XML (Less than 1 year), git (3 years), Docker (1 year), AWS (1 year), React (2 years), Angular (Less than 1 year), Node.js (3 years), Redux (2 years), CircleCI (Less than 1 year), ExtJS (2 years), CSS (8 years), Nodejs, Node Links https://stackoverflow.com/users/1281721/shane-voisard https://github.com/csvoisard