Digital Marketing Specialist/Commercial Real Estate Sales Agent Digital Marketing Specialist/Commercial Real Estate Sales Agent Web Designer/Digital Marketing Specialist Lowell, MA Qualified professional with entrepreneurial spirit armed with broad-based background and skills in the areas of web design, digital marketing, relationship management, budget management, website management, content management, social media management, search engine optimization, and brand awareness. Displays outstanding ability to plan, coordinate, and implement practices and procedures to bring significant improvements in website design and digital marketing processes towards the successful attainment of business goals. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Digital Marketing Specialist/Commercial Real Estate Sales Agent The Edge Group, Inc. - Lowell, MA 2014 to Present • Execute digital marketing efforts for the brokerage through outbound and inbound marketing.  • Manage Edge Group's company website, social media channels, and email marketing.  • Sales and leasing of commercial properties. Contract negotiation and drafting.  • Provided brokerage price opinion and financial evaluation of income property. Web Designer - Owner & Operator Mill City Web Design - Lowell, MA 2005 to Present • Design and develop small business and non-profit organization websites. Optimize client websites for search engines (SEO). Consult clients on marketing their products and services online.  • Assess client sites and generate options for improvement. Plan and implement email marketing campaigns for clients. Conduct usability studies on website visitor behavior for clients.  • Specific duties for Mill City Web Design’s business end include sales, marketing, lead generation, foster relations with existing and potential clients, and working with outside vendors. Web Design Manager Constant Contact - Waltham, MA 2010 to 2013 • Developed compelling and results-driven designs that meet the firm’s strategic business objectives.  • Created landing pages, designed email templates, designed email platform user experience and provided continuous design improvements to Constant Contact’s corporate website.  • Oversaw projects from concept to execution; setting appropriate expectations, ensuring stakeholders are informed of project progress, and completing jobs within specified timeframes.  • Evolved and maintained Constant Contact’s brand standards; ensuring that all materials conform to corporate branding. Managed and mentored a four-person design team—provided guidance, design standards and procedures, hands-on assistance and support.  • Fostered strong, collaborative relationships within the team and with internal clients/stakeholders. Senior Web Designer Constant Contact - Waltham, MA 2008 to 2010 • Landing page designs  • Test landing pages and website pages using A/B testing  • Worked closely with internal stakeholders to assist with providing creative assets for marketing campaigns  • Continuously redesign Constant Contact's product user interface for optimal user interaction using in-house user-experience data and website analytics  • Monitor and collect usability data from in-house user interaction lab Senior Web Designer/ Website Developer MembersFirst - Wayland, MA 2001 to 2007 • Designed, developed, and maintained award winning client sites. Managed a 3-person design and  • development team. Designed, developed, and maintained corporate and intranet site.  • Interfaced with project managers and clients for user requirements.  • Supported Marketing and Sales design requests. Interfaced with clients and industry partners. Web Designer/ Website Developer FairMarket - Woburn, MA 1999 to 2001 • Designed, developed, and maintained award winning client sites.   • Designed, developed, and maintained corporate and intranet site.  • Crested HTML emails and landing pages  • Interfaced with project managers and clients for user requirements.  • Supported Marketing and Sales design requests. Interfaced with clients and industry partners. Education Bachelor's in Information Technology - Web Design and Marketing University of Massachusetts-Lowell - Lowell, MA 2019 High school Lowell High School - Lowell, MA 1993 Skills Real Estate (7 years), Web Design (10+ years), User Experience Design (8 years), Wordpress (10+ years), Microsoft Office Suite (10+ years), Photoshop (10+ years), Marketing, Sales, Outlook, Adobe Creative Suite (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), SEO, Indesign, Illustrator, Google Analytics, Digital Marketing, Graphic Design, Social Media Marketing, Customer Service, Photography, Google Adwords, Social Media Management, Advertising, search engine optimization Certifications/Licenses Boston University Certificate of Web Design and Development Massachusetts Real Estate License Assessments Social Media Skills — Highly Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to create content, communicate online, and build a brand's reputation. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/yqfyvfp6hm-o2v8a Graphic Design Skills — Highly Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to create visual media to effectively communicate information and concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/i5gzboe3qnzd4bmn Marketing Skills — Highly Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to understand your target audience and how to best communicate with them. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/bmslfafyy76pggek Real Estate — Highly Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to match listings with specifications and identify errors on marketing materials. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/w5cuqbzw406hjjwg Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.