Quality Assurance Manager Quality Assurance Manager Quality Assurance Manager - Financial Internal Audit Remediation Simi Valley, CA • Financial auditor for the Department of Defense, Office of Personnel and Management,  United States Air Force/California Air National Guard.  • Awarded Air Force Achievement Medal (2016) for improving internal controls by 95% through auditing.  • Recognized by Director of Financial Management, National Guard Bureau (2017) for identifying  significant security threats through organizational management.    WORK CHANNEL ISLANDS AIR NATIONAL GUARD / 146TH AIRLIFT WING, Channel Islands, CA Work Experience Quality Assurance Manager Financial Internal Audit Remediation 2013 to Present • Held positions of GS-11/Active Guard Reserve, Quality Assurance Manager / Financial Internal Audit Remediation / Financial Systems; GS-09, Financial Internal Audit Remediation; GS-08, Financial Management Specialist; Drill Status Guardsman - Budget Analyst.  • Managed over 50 audits either annually, semi-annually, quarterly, or monthly, identifying shortfalls and exploits using key performance indicators and analysis.  • Developed analysis reporting program for Financial Management Services, Travel Office.  • Created training program to ensure mission readiness among the office; relayed program to other  wings across the nation.  • Designed system access manager to maintain compliance among several financial management  systems.  • Assisted with development of unit financial plans for wing submission, along with monthly analysis of fiscal health of organizations at all levels. Also facilitated annual unfunded request submissions with  unit commanders.  • Maintained compliance of wing with Office and Management and Budget (OMB) regulations, Office of Personnel Management (OPM) regulations, Department of Defense Instructions (DoDI), Air Force  Instructions (AFI), Air National Guard Instructions (ANGI), Joint Travel Regulations (JTR), Department of Defense Financial Management Regulations (DoD FMR), and various wing policies.  • Assisted Wing, Group, Squadron and Flight commanders with the annual Statements of Assurance  (SoA) reportable to State Adjutant General and Congress. Owner, Senior Web Developer INTERFACE WEB PROMOTIONS - Simi Valley, CA 2005 to 2015 • Designed complex customer management web-based system applications for wide-range of customers using various programming languages and products.  • Developed and negotiated contracts with clientele, providing amendments when necessary.  • Served as business consultant to clientele on business plans and vision of client's organizational  goals.  • Used Search Engine Optimization (SEO) strategies to improve client's overall results and placements, coupled with Facebook advertising and Google Analytics.  • Provided computer build services, identifying customer needs, acquisition of parts, and delivering  products within provided timeframe. Education Bachelor of Arts in Business Administration UNIVERSITY OF LA VERNE - Los Angeles, CA 2012 Associates of Science in Management MOORPARK COLLEGE - Moorpark, CA 2009 Skills Asp, Css, Dreamweaver, Html, Javascript, QA, Quality Control, Quality Assurance Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: SrA Assessments Email — Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/mi8-6sy3t2rddqch Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/tm641l3xgd4bmxii Spreadsheets with Microsoft Excel — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate’s Microsoft Excel knowledge including common tools, PivotTables, conditional & nested formulas, and custom visuals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/snhuanteohvlalae Intermediate Word Processing with Microsoft Word — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of intermediate Microsoft Word techniques including the use of formatting, Track Changes, and Comments. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/viwyukiyvlhzc57h Project Management Skills: Budgeting — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to manage project budgets by appropriately allocating and monitoring financial resources. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/yevjkehz016tw-nu Verbal Communication — Highly Proficient August 2019 Speaking clearly, correctly, and concisely. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fu51wappkzvjodfw Social Media — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to create content, communicate online, and build a brand's reputation. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/at6dp28xkmg-87a Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.