NF03 Building Manager NF03 Building Manager Kingsland, GA Seasoned problem solver, highly analytical, and resourceful logistics professional offering significant experience in all areas of material handling and management, inventory control, and regulatory compliance. Exemplary record of accomplishment attained as a supply technician while managing inventory. High-impact team player with proven ability to correct inventory variances and error rates through strong management practices and strict adherence to policies and procedures. Skilled verbal and written communicator who successfully manages inter-departmental coordination efforts to ensure seamless stock level maintenance at multiple locations. History of ensuring full compliance to applicable laws and OSHA regulations. Work Experience NF03 Building Manager Department of the Navy - Kings Bay, GA October 2016 to Present As acting supply manager of Unaccompanied Housing Kings Bay with multiple areas of responsibility I proactively maintained accurate stock records and material organization while processing parts receipts, materials, and service requests. Utilize multiple data systems and other data sources to perform technical research to determine validity, justification, and material availability. Planned short and long term warehouse audit schedules ensuring that all priority stock stays at a high on hand availability and flexibility. Provided professional and customer focused material support to various customers while working in a warehouse environment. Coordinated with stakeholders on material issues as required. Analyze inventory levels and evaluate items for replenishment and or disposal when appropriate. Practiced strict compliance in accordance with various regulations and instructions related to HazMat (local/federal/global), CNRSE Personal Property Program, and furnishings procurement/management. Consult and develop solutions with Government sources as required in support of various logistical issues. Worked closely with internal and external stakeholders, suppliers, and government sources to facilitate product planning in support of various technical and logistics issues.    • Maintained 100% positive inventory audit(s)   • Improved inventory tracking by creating an Access database, migrating data from obsolete format, and implementing inventory control measures not currently utilized.   • Created solution to address waste during linen distribution resulting in 37% year over year cost savings to program by altering packaging and distribution methods.   • Provided methodology and implemented maintenance schedule for fleet of electric vehicles in order to maintain unit value and availability for staff use.   • Transitioned 100% of HazMat inventory to new SDS format and provided training to staff on SDS symbols, terminology and safety.   • Reorganized the means of requisition and use of SAFLOK components resulting in 22% year over year cost savings to program.   • Identified and corrected shortcomings in inventory distribution and storage for inventory requisitioned by staff.   • Effectively and proactively communicate with management regarding daily/quarterly program needs based on mission and instruction.   • Supervised multiple successful furniture installation evolutions with contract values exceeding 1 million dollars. As Technical Representative responsibilities included POC for contractor and installation team, quality assurance and specification adherence for received items, safety oversight of staff and installation team, coordinate and insured compliance with DLA/DRMO disposal regulations.   • Managed Furnishings and Fixtures program which includes 15,000 active inventory furnishings. Maintained CNIC requirements for auditing and reporting of FF&E. Securing and tracking warranty resolution when applicable.  • Developed, designed and procured aesthetic display materials for UH lobby both electronic and standard media.   • Exceeded annual training requirements for housing professionals and management.   • Gold level evaluations from management FY17 & FY18  Web Developer Self Employed February 2001 to November 2016 Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills: Responsible for design, maintenance, front end programming and testing of web based corporate assets and client projects. Worked with multiple teams of consultants and clients to create and deploy custom web portals. Managed all web marketing, e-mail campaigns, search engine optimization, and social media integration/interaction. Duties have also entailed corporate branding, print media creation, web graphic design and various visual media communications. Primary administrator of corporate dedicated server managing day to day operations, data management, email support and upgrade protocols. WG01 Custodian Department of the Navy - Kings Bay, GA January 2016 to October 2016 Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills: Cleaned offices, storerooms, corridors, stairways, dormitories, and other areas. Sweep, dry mop, scrub, wax and polish floors, using brooms, mops, lightweight vacuum cleaners, and lightweight floor scrubbers and buffers. Dust, wax, and polish furniture. Empty ashtrays and wastebaskets. Polish door knobs and other metal fixtures. Wash walls, windows, and blinds that can be reached without climbing ladders or scaffolds.  Kept restrooms in clean, orderly, and sanitary condition. Sweep, scrub, and wax floors. Clean, disinfect, and deodorize lavatories, urinals, and toilet bowls. Clean mirrors, sinks, and water fountains. Dust ledges and woodwork. Replace deodorizers, toilet tissue, hand towels, and soap. Note condition of restroom and reports to supervisors broken windows, water leaks, clogged drains, and other conditions requiring maintenance. Education Florida Community College at Jacksonville Jacksonville, FL United States High School May 1992 Skills Microsoft Office Suite (10+ years), Graphic Design (10+ years), Web Design (10+ years), Project Management (2 years), Cost accounting skills (2 years), Ability to understand financial statements (2 years), Troubleshooting, Problem solving (10+ years), Interpersonal Communication Skills (10+ years), Analytical, Numerical and Conceptual Thinking (10+ years), Planning and Scheduling (10+ years), Sharepoint (2 years), Customer Service, Logistics, Supply Chain, Quality Inspector, Shipping Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E3 December 1992 to October 1994 Hull Maintenance Technician - Completed light fabrication duties, including welding and pipefitting. Generated PM schedules and procedures, Repaired and replaced plumbing parts, including pumps and drain lines. Completed preventative maintenance on water heaters, toilets, urinals, and plumbing fixtures. Assembled, maintained, and installed valves, hangers, supports and flanges inside piping systems. Managed Quality Assurance Program (QAP). Commendations: Honorably Discharged Certifications/Licenses HM-130 Issue Resolution and Documentation Process January 2019 to Present HM-201 Furnishings Management November 2017 to Present HP-220 UH Building Management February 2017 to Present HM-210 Conducting Effective Meetings and Briefs January 2019 to Present HM-250 Occupational Safety, Health, and Risk Communication for Housing Managers May 2018 to Present STAR Service Customer Service March 2016 to Present Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) Training July 2017 to July 2019 612314 Program Support Data (PSD) May 2019 to Present Training for logistics personnel involved in the Navy acquisition supply support process. 597236 Principles of NAVSEA Logistics (PNL) May 2019 to Present 623471 NAVSEA INDEPENDENT LOGISTICS ASSESSMENT (NILA) May 2019 to Present 664046 INTEGRATED LOGISTICS SUPPORT May 2019 to Present