CERTIFIED SITECORE DEVELOPER | WEB DEVELOPER CERTIFIED SITECORE <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> | <span class="hl">WEB</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> Senior Programmer Analyst Work Experience CERTIFIED SITECORE DEVELOPER | WEB DEVELOPER Honeywell International - Melville, NY June 2006 to June 2019 Led the migration of a legacy Fatwire CMS to Sitecore platform. Supported legacy web content management system from Fatwire (UpdateEngine).    • Provided migration team with existing Fatwire CMS Diagrams and documents.  • Trained in Sitecore technology and used learning to help educate vendors on both legacy app and application of new technology business requirements, resulting in successful completion of migration.  • Tested new Sitecore setup at every phase and proactively identified and solved deficiencies, resulting in on time delivery.  • Provided a database backup from the legacy Fatwire CMS.  • Optimized legacy code and improved performance across the board in all sections of application by reducing API response payload, optimizing database query performance, and auditing sluggish sections of code.  • Created templates using JSP, Java API and Fatwire API to allow content editors to build multinational websites for Honeywell. Setup the data structure to enter content into CMS.  • Made web pages XHTML Compliant.  • Redesigned all existing websites using latest technologies in web development, such as: HTML, JavaScript, CSS and JQuery.  • Executed security remediation of all existing websites to comply with Honeywell standards and applied forced SSL, using .NET forms, server side validation of all inputs from the user.  • Updated all existing .NET forms to include opt-in option to comply Honeywell security standards.  • Developed dealer locator for US and Canada. Automated updating process of zip code changes within US or Canada. Used SSIS to manipulate, migrate and update data on SQL Server between development, QA and production environments.  • Helped upgrade dealer website from .NET framework 1.1 to .NET Framework 2.0  • Worked with internal users during User Acceptance Testing of application enhancements.  • Involved in coordination of the offshore team, with emphasis on development work for Content Server configuration, complying with user requirement, and actively involved in code review and development issues with the offshore team.  Vladislav Ilyyayev vlad_ilyaev@yahoo.com Consulting Web Developer Manpower Professional - Syosset, NY September 2004 to May 2006 at Honeywell  Worked on enhancing existing web and database applications written in JSP, FatWire content management tool, ASP, Java, Java script & SQL Server for Honeywell Security.    • Participated and led small to medium size projects enhancing client product offering in the areas of Honeywell Security and website development.  • Collaborated with internal users during User Acceptance Testing of application enhancements. IGF Web Administrator Superior Design International, Inc - Armonk, NY May 2002 to April 2004 IBM Global Financing (IGF) Content Management Project Developer  Worked with the IMC and Communications teams to manage all content management requirements for 48 Internet and Intranet sites and sitelets.    • Oversaw development initiatives, site hosting within the SDC and GWA environments, ensuring IGF web sites were in compliance with IBM web standards.  • Executed end to end daily promotion of content.  • Represented IGF as the focal point for IBM Web Accessibility compliance.  • Developed and supported Flash demo for Account Management Tool and Customer Centre users. Education Bachelor of Arts in (BA), Computer Science Queens College - Flushing, NY Bachelor of Arts in (BA), Music Art Institute of Khafiz Skills VISUAL STUDIO, C#, C/C++, C++, HTML Links http://linkedin.com/in/vladilyayev