Senior Web Developer Senior <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Hemet, CA To apply my great work ethics, outstanding problem solving skills, and amazing customer  service experience to your company and succeed greatly. I love a challenge and I never give up. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Web Developer NNOVISION MARGETING GROUP - San Diego, CA June 2017 to Present • Design and build websites with WordPress, PHP, HTML, CSS, custom responsive code, some JavaScript.  • Perform routine maintenance on existing client websites.  • Make website edits according to client requests.  • Manipulate and compress photos for use in web applications.  • Keep SEO up to date.  • Multitask between various projects.  • Set up and maintain AV system to ensure presentations run smoothly.  • Create multiple website backups regularly and store online and locally.  • Find website vulnerabilities and increase security.  • Document and organize code customizations.  • Assist team with various tasks. SMART HOME INSTALLER TECH BROS. - Chula Vista, CA January 2009 to Present • Design home AV, surveillance, and data networks based on customer needs.  • Order parts needed for installs and keep inventory in order.  • Install indoor and outdoor access points to increase data connectivity range while maintaining the same SSID.  • Mount TVs to walls and conceal wiring inside walls.  • Install additional power sources behind wall mounted TVs, in smart panel boxes.  • Install smart panel boxes and install new data and coax wiring inside walls to provide central location for multimedia hub.  • Install switches, modems, routers, and home file servers.  • Configure wireless networks and assist customer on connecting all of their wireless devices to the best possible band.  • Educate customers on different types of Wi-Fi signals and frequency bands to help them make the best possible decision when upgrading their network. Freelance Web Developer Golden State Graphic Design - Chula Vista, CA January 2013 to June 2017 • Design and build websites with WordPress, PHP, HTML, CSS, custom responsive code, some JavaScript.  • Perform routine maintenance on existing client websites.  • Make website edits according to client requests.  • Manipulate and compress photos for use in web applications.  • Keep SEO up to date.  • Multitask between various projects.  • Create multiple website backups regularly and store online and locally.  • Find website vulnerabilities and increase security.  • Document and organize code customizations.  • Outreach to local businesses for B2B sales.  • Attend client meetings and pitch custom plans that fit their needs and budget. Field Service Specialist II Dish Network - San Diego, CA September 2008 to June 2016 • Residential installs and service calls – employee of the month.  • Commercial installs and service calls – frequent top performer.  • Worked as a remote installer in rural areas with minimal supervision.  • Provide support for other installers to complete all jobs in the queue as a team.  • The go to guy for escalated issues.  • Smart home sales and installs.  • Home network installs and integration with satellite system.  • Moca certified for whole home dvr installs.  • SBCA Certification for working with telecom satellites.  • Wildblue and Excede certified to install internet via satellite. Education Diploma San Ysidro High School - San Diego, CA 2002 to 2006 Skills Javascript, MySQL, PHP, HTML 5, MySQL, jQuery, Javascript, PHP Links https://www.webdesign619.com https://jerauldscarcare.com/ https://1ststopcarcare.com/ https://ordazlawapc.com/ http://your-elitedj.com/ Assessments Search Engine Optimization — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/h0pvsndfkhlcaqh4 Graphic Design — Proficient August 2019 Using graphic design techniques and producing visual media to communicate concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/9srvqdn-ydgjz1yw Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.