Senior Developer Senior <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Developer - Adams Street Partners - Private Equity Fund Chicago, IL • 16 years experience in Web and Desktop Applications Development, ETL, Software and Database Design and Implementation.  • Successful background in Web Applications, DB, Client-server, Desktop, Windows Services and Web Services development using object oriented methodology, design patterns and advanced tools, architecture solutions, system analysis, technical support and troubleshooting.  • Full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) specifications elaboration using MS Office Tools (Visio, Project, Word, Access, Excel) and Rational Rose, Visual Paradigm Add-in for VS.NET. Worked as a Team Lead closely with clients, traders, brokers, advisors, PMs to determine customer requirements, prepare proposals, design specifications, architecture for complex sets of applications in different fields, automatic and black box test-cases architecture and development using nUnit.  • Design and modules I develop are always very flexible, easy to extend, maintain and support scalability at any point. Familiar with all Design Patterns and can apply them when needed, as well as communicate to other developers faster.  • Strong experience in developing large-scale financial software, processing of invoices and other monetary documents, generating reports and updating financial balance. Accounting, Credit cards transactions and alternative payments (PayPal, MasterPass, VISA checkout, AmEx Express checkout) charging modules development and implementation.  • Has deep expertise in technologies: C#, ASP.NET 3.5/4.0 (1.1 and 2.0 as well), Java, AJAX, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Sencha(ExtJS), XML/XSL/XSLT/XPath, SQL, ADO.NET, UML, nUnit, nHibernate, VB.NET, C++, MS Reporting Services 2005, COM/COM+/DCOM, MFC, OLE, ODBC).  • Development of the SQL Database design, Stored Procedures, Triggers (MS SQL 2008 (2000/2005 as well), DB/2, PostgreSQL, mySQL). Used ORM (Object Relational Mapping) tools for .NET (Entity RSDN.Framework.Data, nHibernate) for business objects implementation and mapping and cross-SQL servers consistency.  • Hands on experience in version control tools like CVS, git, Subversion and MS Visual Source Safe and MS Team Foundation Server (also Project Management, Unit testing, Bug Tracking, etc.).  • 3+ years experience designing and developing Stocks, Options and MF trading tools, investment planning, risk analysis and research tools for Financial industry  • Can effectively work as Team player as well as self-motivated independent individual. Good communication skills, sense of humor. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Developer Adams Street Partners - Private Equity Fund - Chicago, IL June 2018 to Present USA    Responsibilities  • Software Tools and Technologies: ASP.NET MVC5, Web API, REST, C#, VB.NET, Entity Framework, MS Visual Studio .NET 2015/2017, jQuery, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Browser Dev. Tools (FireBug, Chrome), XML, TFS, SQL, ASPOSE Framework for Reports  - Worked as a Senior Full-Stack Developer in a team of 3 developers and 3 QA/BA on a set of the projects for managing the pre-investment research and planning, decision making and post-investment activity, analysis and reporting of the Private Equity Funds, Partnerships and Private Credit, including the new code and features development as well as maintenance of a legacy code for a powerful web based Platform ASPIRE.  • - Created new and maintained existing Report using ASPOSE Framework for generating powerful reports with charts and tables in Excel, Word, PDF as well as Power Point presentations.  • - Upgraded PME Calculator Excel Add-in to support the new Office 365.  • - Implemented new Outlook Add-in for customizations of the Meeting rooms bookings for Preparation and Cleanup times added in one click, including recurring features.  • - Worked on project estimates planning and controlling the time-frames Senior Developer Crate&Barrel - Chicago, IL May 2017 to June 2018 USA    Responsibilities  • Software Tools and Technologies: ASP.NET MVC5, Web API, REST, C#, Entity Framework, MS Visual Studio .NET 2015/2017, jQuery, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Browser Dev.  • Tools (FireBug, Chrome, Safari), XML, TFS, SQL.  • Worked as a Senior Developer in a team of 4 back-end and 2 front-end developers and 4 QA on a the new single code base and new features development as well as maintenance of a legacy code for a powerful e-Commerce web Platform - for Desktop, Mobile and Tablet devices, both Web Application and Native app, including iPhone and iPad.  • Implemented most of Checkout features, including Cart functionality for stock, custom items and sets of multiple items, collecting U.S. or international Delivery and Billing addresses with thorough validation, multiple various payment options, like credit cards(Discover, Visa, Mastercard, AmEx) and alternative payments: PayPal, MasterPass, Visa checkout, AmEx express checkout, following PCI compliance regulations.  • Implemented back-end and front-end prevention of the Vulnerability issues discovered.  • Worked on Design and Implementation of the entire front and back end of the new platform including complicated customized Gift Registry, Shipping information, allowing various options for Shipping, including ground, priority, express, with multiple recipients, Promo codes and Gift cards support, My Account management, Order History navigation with ability to schedule the delivery date and time online, developed access management permissions system, etc.  • Also large part of development was to support White Label versions of the sites by Crate&Barrel, CB2, The Land of Nod.  • Which would have each of them its own tax, price and shipping calculations, settings for subscriptions, delivery options, promos.  • Besides that supporting all partners, discounts, banners, referrals, etc.  • Tracking all of the information, including all steps of the purchase flow, calculating Drop off rates and helping Marketing to find the places for improvement of UI/UX to help improve the conversion rates.  • Worked on project estimates planning and controlling the time-frames.  • Helped other developers on the team to learn special tweaks of C#, SQL, jQuery, Javascript, MVC5 and CSS3. Senior Developer US Cellular - Chicago, IL April 2016 to May 2017 USA    Responsibilities  • Software Tools and Technologies: C#, Entity Framework, TFS, ETL Talend Studio, Oracle, PostgreSQL, ASP.NET MVC2/4, jQuery/Mobile, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Browser Dev.  • Tools (FireBug, Chrome, Safari), XML, SQL.  • Worked as a Senior Developer in an Agile team of 8 developers on a fully automated solution for managing operations, configurations and audit of cellular networks and equipment, including cell-sites, antennas, MTSOs, MME, SGW, PGW, firewalls and entire core equipment inventory.  • Designed and implemented front and back end, middle layer with the business logic and database objects and functions using C#, ASP.NET MVC, Oracle, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery.  • Worked on architecture and development of the ETL processes and Java objects for collecting, transformation and processing the data from various sources in different formats(.csv, txt, .xml, sql (postgreSQL backup dump), etc.).  • Improved processes and performance on the Oracle Database side, including Data Warehouse and migrations between multiple different sources.  • Worked on project estimates planning, SCRUM process improvements, etc. Senior Developer Live Nation - Ticket Master -Tickets Now - Chicago, IL March 2015 to April 2016 USA    Responsibilities  • Software Tools and Technologies: ASP.NET MVC2/4, C#, Entity Framework, MS Visual Studio .NET 2010/2012, jQuery/Mobile, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Browser Dev.  • Tools (FireBug, Chrome, Safari), XML, TFS.  • Worked as a Team Lead, Senior Developer in a team of 6 developers and 5 QA on a brand new version of the Ticket Resale Platform - for Mobile and Tablet devices, both Web Application and Native app, including iPhone, iPad, Android, Blackberry and other devices.  • Implemented most of UI, tweaks and resolved most of the incompatibility issues to support various devices, both old and new versions.  • Implemented all HTML5, jQuery/Mobile, Javascript and CSS3 code for Multi-browser (mobile versions of Safari, Chrome, Mozilla Firefox) support of all the applications on the project.  • Worked on Design and Implementation of the entire front and back end of the new platform (jQuery Mobile, CSS3, MVC4) including Ticket Listing for Sale by large brokers, season ticket holders or regular users, GPS navigation, Ticket group or single Purchase, Order Form with validations for Billing, Shipping information, allowing various options for Shipping, including ground, priority, electronic, email, instant PDF delivery and others, Recently Viewed items, Credit Card charges validation with VeriSign and migration to TRUSTe, ACH deposit and refunds, Promo codes and Gift cards support, My Account management, Order History navigation with ability to transfer or resell users' tickets, Subscriptions, etc., developed access management permissions system, etc.  • Also large part of development was to support White Label versions of the sites by Ticket Exchanges like NBA, NFL, NHL, USTA(US Open Tennis), Super Bowl and others.  • Which would have each of them its own tax, price and shipping calculations, settings for subscriptions, delivery options.  • Besides that supporting all partners, discounts, banners, referrals, etc.  • Tracking all of the information, including all steps of the purchase flow, calculating Drop off rates and helping Marketing to find the places for improvement of UI/UX to help improve the conversion rates.  • Worked on project estimates planning and controlling the time-frames.  • Helped other developers on the team to learn special tweaks of jQuery, Javascript, MVC4 and CSS3. Senior Developer MasterCard - St. Louis, MO February 2014 to March 2015 USA    Responsibilities  • Software Tools and Technologies: C#, MS Visual Studio .NET 2010, ExtJS(Sencha), jQuery, JavaScript, Eclipse, Browser Developer Tools (FireBug, Chrome, IE), XML/XSLT/XPath, HTML, CSS, Apache, Java, SubVersion version control.  • Worked as a Senior Developer in a team of 12 developers and 5 QA on a brand new version of the Clients and Consumers Management Platform - web application for mobile and regular browsers for managing Clients and Consumers, their access permissions, application subscription, etc.  • Fixed and implemented all Javascript and CSS code for Multi-browser(Safari, Chrome, IE6/7/8/9, Mozilla Firefox) support of all the applications on the project.  • Worked on Design and Implementation of the new platform (ExtJS, Java) including History navigation with the Deep links to any specific part of the content, with the ability to save to favorites or send by email any spot on the application as URL, created Front-end based Export support, developed access management permissions system, etc.  • After I was working as a Lead UI Developer using ExtJS as well as pure JavaScript and CSS with one more Developer on the team - we released the Real-time Trading Platform for Options, Stocks trading.  • this was honored at the 3rd place Nationwide by Barron's review. And the 3rd place was only because we didn't have enough resources to implement Mutual Funds Trading at that time yet. Otherwise we could get the 1st place in US.  • Made investigation and bug fixing in the existing code, making successful results in the short term.  • Worked on project estimates planning and SCRUM process improvements.  • Helped other developers on the team to learn special tweaks of ExtJS and Javascript. Senior Developer McKesson January 2013 to February 2014 Responsibilities  • Software Tools and Technologies: MS Visual Studio .NET 2010, ASP.NET, C#, WCF, jQuery, Sencha(ExtJS), JavaScript, Browser Developer Tools (FireBug, Chrome), XML/XSLT/XPath, HTML, CSS, MS SQL 2008, Java, Linq, Lambda expressions, ORM Entity Framework, Borland StarTeam as version and management control.  • Worked as a Senior Developer in a team of 10 developers and 5 QA on a new version of the ERP application implemented as a Mobile Web application for medical clinics and hospitals, called Intellishelf Supply Station for all the modern browsers as well as iPad, allowing medical personal to manage supplies(order, special order, dispense, apply supplies to the in/out patients or empty beds, return them to stock or dispose, etc).  • Worked on Design and Implementation of the new platform for all the browsers using ASP.NET 4.0, C#, Linq, MS SQL 2008 as well as porting it from the old platform (ASP/VB, SQL 2000).  • Fixed and implemented all Javascript and CSS code for Multi-browser(Safari, Chrome, IE6/7/8, Mozilla Firefox) support of all the applications on the project.  • Made investigation and bug fixing in the existing code, making successful results in the short term.  • Worked on project estimates planning and controlling the time-frames.  • Helped other developers on the team to learn and utilize the best practices of ASP.NET 4.0, Linq, Lambda expressions, SQL 2008, jQuery, Sencha(ExtJS), CSS 2.0/3.0. Senior Developer CDW (eCommerce) July 2012 to January 2013 Responsibilities  • Software Tools and Technologies: MS Visual Studio .NET 2008/2010, ASP.NET, C#, MVC2/MVC3, WCF, Sencha(ExtJS), Sencha Touch, jQuery, JavaScript, Browser Developer Tools (FireBug, Chrome), XML/XSLT/XPath, HTML, CSS, MS SQL 2008, Java, Linq, Lambda expressions, ORM Entity Framework, TFS as version and management control.  • Worked as a Senior Developer in a team of 12 developers and 4 QA on a new version of the eCommerce application implemented as both iPhone Native(ExtJS - Sencha Touch) application as well as Mobile Web application allowing customers to do all the same functions as the main web-site - look up the items, add/save/modify cart, checkout, request a quote, have customized discounts and prices, assign different shipping addresses and billing information and addresses, setup the powerful Purchase Authorization system with set of steps and rules with the companies manager's approvals, etc.  • Worked on Design and Implementation of the new platform for Mobile (MVC3, ASP.NET 4.0, C#, Linq, MS SQL 2008) and for one of the modules for a fast tracking SEO and providing the best recommended items based on the current search results on the site.  • Fixed and implemented all Javascript and CSS code for Multi-browser(Safari, Chrome, IE6/7/8, Mozilla Firefox) support of all the applications on the project.  • Made investigation and bug fixing in the existing code, making successful results in the short term.  • Worked on project estimates planning and controlling the time-frames.  • Helped other developers on the team to learn MVC3, Linq, Lambda expressions. Senior Developer OptionsHouse - Chicago, IL June 2011 to July 2012 USA    Responsibilities  • Software Tools and Technologies: MS Visual Studio .NET 2010, ExtJS(Sencha), jQuery, JavaScript, Eclipse, Browser Developer Tools (FireBug, Chrome), XML/XSLT/XPath, HTML, CSS, nginx, MS SQL 2008, Java, ORM tools (Hibernate), git version control.  • Worked as a Senior Developer in a team of 15 developers and 7 QA on a new version of the Trading Platform - web application for mobile and regular browsers for Stocks, Options and Mutual Funds trading, Analysis, Risk Viewer, ACH and Wire Transfers, etc.  • Fixed and implemented all Javascript and CSS code for Multi-browser(Safari, Chrome, IE6/7/8, Mozilla Firefox and even some Linux text-only browsers) support of all the applications on the project.  • Worked on Design and Implementation of the new platform (ExtJS(Sencha), Java, MS SQL 2008) and for one of the modules designed and implemented fully customized Tree View Grid in pure Javascript, ExtJS(Sencha) and CSS with more than 4 levels depth, which has no existing analogs yet.  • Made investigation and bug fixing in the existing code, making successful results in the short term.  • Worked on project estimates planning and controlling the time-frames.  • Communicated closely with clients, traders, brokers, advisors.  • Helped other developers on the team to learn special tweaks of ExtJS(Sencha) and Javascript.  • Attended a lot of seminars and educational programs regarding Stocks, Options and Mutual Funds Trading and learned the financial industry standards and knowledge required for successful proceeding on the projects. Senior Developer Morningstar Inc May 2010 to June 2011 Financial Research and Advisor Services)    Responsibilities  • Software Tools and Technologies: Visual Studio .NET 2008 (ASP.NET 3.5, C#, Web 2.0 Providers, Web Parts, MS AJAX, ADO.NET) JavaScript, XML/XSLT/XPath, ExtJS(Sencha), HTML, CSS, IIS, MS SQL 2008(also 2000/2005) Developer Tools, ORM tools (nHibernate), VSS, Browser Developer Tools (FireBug, Chrome).  • Worked as a Senior Developer in a team of 9 developers on a complex set of new web-applications for Financial Research, Risk and Needs Assessment, Investment Planning, Risk Analysis and Advisor Services, Historical Performance.  • Worked on multiple financial reports (FINRA approved as well as pending approval).  • Worked on Design and Implementation of a new platform Advisor Workstation 2.0 (C# 2.0, ASP.NET 3.5, AJAX, MS SQL 2005) for existing application migration from the old project (C++, ASP, Java Applet, MS SQL 2000 ).  • Made investigation and bug fixing in the legacy code, making successful results in the short term.  • Elaborated the OOP and Database Architecture, prepared technical documentation and design for the project while working closely with clients, brokers, advisors.  • Worked on project estimates planning and controlling the time-frames.  • Helped other developers on the team to learn new technologies and smoothly switch from C++, JavaApplet to C#, ASP.NET and ExtJS(Sencha) with JavaScript.  • Developed automatic test-cases for the projects using nUnit.  • Attended a lot of seminars and educational programs regarding all tools developed by other teams and learned the financial industry standards and knowledge required for successful proceeding on the projects. Team Lead SoftLabz Corporation - Chicago, IL April 2009 to May 2010 www.softlabz.com, Chicago, IL, USA    Responsibilities  • Software Tools: Visual Studio .NET 2005 (ASP.NET 2.0, Web 2.0, Atlas, C#, ADO.NET), IIS, MS SQL 2000/2005 Developer Tools, ORM tools (nHibernate), Subversion.  • Worked as a Team Lead in a team of 4 developers on a complex set of web-applications for Taxi Affiliation Services, Car Rental, Accounting, Cash, Vouchers and Credit Cards transactions payments, Scheduled interest fees, Orders Reservation, Planning, Management, Car Service.  • Designed Architecture, OOP and Database structure for a new platform (C# 2.0, ASP.NET 2.0, Web 2.0 Providers, Web Parts, AJAX, ADO.NET 2.0, MS SQL 2005 + ORM tools).  • This project involves engineering and implementation of the web-site management and administration system along with the deployment process setup, users, roles and rules management, preparing automated testing project. Senior Developer Experian March 2008 to April 2009 Responsibilities  • Software Tools: Visual Studio .NET 2005 (ASP.NET 2.0, Web 2.0, Atlas, C#, ADO.NET), IIS, MS SQL 2000/2005 Developer Tools, ORM tools (nHibernate), VSS, CVS.  • Worked as a team lead in a team of 7 developers on a complex set of web-applications for Direct Marketing, Response Analysis Services, Management, Reporting and Billing Services.  • Prepared Architecture solutions for the Services and Database Warehouse optimizing it with keys, indexes and heavily using OLAP functions for a new platform (C# 2.0, ASP.NET 2.0, AJAX, ADO.NET 2.0, MS SQL 2005, DB/2 + ORM tools) for existing application migration from the old project (C++, C#, MS SQL 2000 ).  • Developed DB/2 Stored Procedures to calculate main business processes of the engine, Billing services, C++ services and flows. Was working closely with the clients to collect and spec out the requirements.  • Migrated legacy UI to ASP.NET 2.0. Senior .NET Developer SoftLabz Corporation - Chicago, IL February 2007 to March 2008 USA    Responsibilities  • Software Tools: Visual Studio .NET 2005 (ASP.NET 2.0, Web 2.0, MS AJAX(Atlas), C#, ADO.NET), IIS, MS SQL 2000/2005 Developer Tools, ORM tools (nHibernate), Subversion.  • Worked as a Senior .NET Developer in a team of 4 developers on a complex set of web-applications for GPS (Global Positioning System) for car rental, truck management and other industries, Logistics, Accounting, Management.  • Elaborated the OOP and Database Design (Tables, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Indexes, etc.) of a new platform (C# 2.0, ASP.NET 2.0, Web 2.0 Providers, Web Parts, AJAX, ADO.NET 2.0, MS SQL 2005, PostgreSQL + ORM tools). Team Lead Danish-Ukrainian outsourcing Company - Kiev, UA January 2006 to February 2007 Ukraine (projects for "Composite A/S" )    Responsibilities  • Software Tools: Visual Studio .NET 2005 (ASP.NET 2.0, Web 2.0 Providers, MS AJAX(Atlas), C#, ADO.NET), IIS, MS SQL 2000/2005 Developer Tools, ORM tools (nHibernate), Subversion.  • Worked as a team lead in a team of 3 developers on a complex set of web-applications for Composite CMS (Content Management System).  • Elaborated the OOP and Database Design models of a new platform (C# 2.0, ASP.NET 2.0, AJAX, ADO.NET 2.0, MS SQL 2005 + ORM tools) for existing application migration from the old project (C++, C#, MS SQL 2000 ).  • Implemented business objects for automatic Data handling through the ORM tools to SQL database of any type(Oracle, MS SQL Server 2000/2005, MS Access, etc.).  • This project involves engineering and programming of the functionality that makes easy such operations for Web-site management as users, roles and rules management, web-site structure and content management functions for large scale systems.  • Developed automatic test-cases for the projects using nUnit.  • The system have a very powerful statistics logging and any client is able to control everything is going on with his CMS system. Team Lead Danish-Ukrainian outsourcing Company - Kiev, UA August 2005 to January 2006 Ukraine (projects for IBM TSM system)    Responsibilities  • Software Tools: Visual Studio .NET 2003/2005 (ASP.NET, C#, ADO.NET), IIS, MS SQL 2000/2005 Developer Tools, ORM tools(nHibernate, RSDN.Framework.Data), Subversion.  • Worked as a team lead in a team of 2 programmers on a complex set of windows, console and web-applications for IBM TSM system (Tivoli Storage Manager), back-end processing part for it.  • Elaborated the OOP and Database Design models of a new platform (C#, ASP.NET, ADO.NET + ORM tools) for existing application migration from the old project (C++, Cold Fusion ).  • Implemented business objects for automatic Data handling through the ORM tools to SQL database of any type(Oracle, MS SQL Server 2000/2005, MS Access, etc.).  • Designed and developed a separate project for on-line management of the Backup/Storage system. This is a high-level wrapper that uses a low-level IBM Storage Manager tools.  • This application is able to arrange all stages of the full cycle of the client-server software package, that were needed before to manage the Backup server operations and statistics.  • This application is oriented for non-educated persons, but it is a completely-functional powerful tool for IBM Backup Storage system management.  • This project includes engineering and programming of the product that makes easy such operations as backup, restore, archive and retrieve functions for large scale systems.  • The system have a very powerful statistics logging and any client is able to check all backups and archives information though a special Wizards web site or special desktop application. Developed automatic test-cases for the projects using nUnit.  • Redeveloped the existing tool that managed the back-end functionality of the IBM Storage System (transferring data, macro-scripts parsing/execution, statistics logging).  • The new version is able to serve up to 50 Storage servers. The solution is a multi-threading windows service, GUI manager/servers configurations controller, additional utilities. Lead web-applications Development Engineer U.S.- Canadian-Ukrainian outsourcing Company July 2004 to August 2005 Soft-Ukraine"  Dnepropetrovsk, Ukraine (projects for U.S. company "Caspio Inc    Responsibilities  • Software Tools: Visual Studio .NET (ASP.NET, C#, ADO.NET), IIS, MS SQL 2000 Developer Tools, ORM tools(nHibernate, RSDN.Framework.Data), CVS.  • Worked as a lead developer in a team of 8 programmers and 6 testers on a complex web-application software engine project for accelerated development of web-sites, databases and extra features.  • Elaborated the OOP and Database Design models of a new platform (C#, ASP.NET, AJAX, ADO.NET + ORM tools) for existing application migration from the old project (VB 6.0, ASP, ADO).  • Implemented business objects for automatic Data handling through the ORM tools to SQL database of any type(Oracle, MS SQL Server 2000, MS Access, etc.).  • Developed the code for on-line management of web-site structure, extra features right through the Internet using client authorization.  • This project includes engineering and programming of the product that automatizes and accelerates the development of Web-sites and such features as authorization, site-structure, statistics, online data updating and files uploading, help and searching systems running on MS SQL Server 2000.  • Developed administrative Web application for clients registration, statistics, processing invoices.  • Developed billing module and special AutoBilling Windows service which involves Credit cards transactions charging modules development and implementation.  • Developed and implemented by myself custom web DataGrid that have all functionality of the simple DataGrid(columns sorting, rows counter, pages counter and switch, rows update, delete, add, details page, authorized columns output and/or input, files download and upload, search criteria, etc.).  • This custom DataGrid must work well in any version of any web browser without using any scripts and cookies. Lead Web-applications Development Engineer ATLANTIS Corporation June 2003 to July 2004 Responsibilities  • Software Tools: Visual Studio .NET (ASP.NET, C#, ADO.NET), IIS, MS SQL 2000 Developer Tools, MS Visual SourceSafe.  • Worked as a team leader of 4 programmers on a complex web-application software engine project for accelerated development of web-sites.  • Developed the code for on-line management of web-site structure, menus, submenus, extra features right through Internet by client user login.  • This project includes engineering and programming of the product that automatizes and accelerates the development of Web-sites and such features as site-structure, menus, submenus, site-tree, Internet on-line shop, forum, message-board, and also statistics, banners, help, searching and dealers systems running on MS SQL Server 2000.  • Designed a project that involves migration from file sharing system under network to client-server version running on MS SQL Server 2000.  • Developed a Log-file analyzer console program by myself. This program can be used as a universal utility for analyzing log-files, there tags and values(for example: calculations of IIS traffic) . Results of analysis are provided in Database(MS SQL 2000) and can be viewed in Web(ASP.NET) Education Master degree in Computer Science in Software Development Engineer State University of Railway Transport Engineers Certificate in Business Management Civil Engineering Academy Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Applications developed: Web-applications, Windows Client-Server / Desktop / Database applications, Web-sites, Stocks and Options Trading tools, financial documents, materials management, general ledger.  Operating system: MS Windows XP Professional (9x/NT/2000/2003 Server as well as Vista and Win 7), Linux, AIX.  Programming languages: C#, C++, J#, ASP.NET 3.5/4.0, Java, JavaScript, VB.NET, SQL  Technologies: ASP.NET, ExtJS (Sencha and Mobile), MVC2/3, MVC5, WCF, Linq, Lambda expressions, HTML, AJAX, JavaScript, XML/XSL/XSLT, CSS, MS SQL Reporting Services 2005, COM+/DCOM, OLE, ODBC, ADO.NET, Entities Framworks, ASPOSE Framework for Reports  RDBMS: MS SQL Server 2000-2008, DB/2, PostgreSQL, MS Access, Oracle 8i, Lotus Domino Server, ORM tools  Development Tools: Internet Information Services 6.0, Visual Studio 6.0/ 7.1/8.0/9.0 (2005/2008/2010), Adobe Photoshop 5.0/7.0, Eclipse  Modeling Tools: Visual Paradigm Add-in for VS.NET, Rational Rose, MS Visio 2003  Version control Tools: MS Team Foundation Server, git, CVS, Subversion, MS Visual Source Safe 6.0c.