Full Stack Developer / System Administration Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> / System Administration IT Professional Winamac, IN Results-oriented professional with successful experience Web Development, System Administration and Project Management. Contributed to business growth and generated new business opportunities through strategic planning and effective technical solutions delivery. Skilled communicator, able to brainstorm technical solutions with team members and build trusting working relationships with colleagues. With a comprehensive understanding of all aspects of the end-to-  end project management strategy, structure, systems, processes, and team leadership, able to perform effective service, supporting the utilization of industry best practices. Confident, flexible and efficient in a fast-paced multitasking environment. Demonstrated the ability to work diligently under pressure to meet strict deadlines.     Effectively managed complex and high impact projects through all phases from strategic planning to implementation.    Independently developed an entire software system for a manufacturing company to improve organizational processes and efficiency.    Implemented numerous process improvements to streamline system development life cycle and mentored a technical team on new procedures. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Developer / System Administration Kruz Inc - Knox, IN November 2012 to Present Successfully implemented a dynamic order/quote system for numerous options on all product lines using PHP, MySQL, and JavaScript.    Contributed to business IT infrastructure development, including a new VOIP system while demonstrating strategic leadership, work integrity, and time management.    Maximized efficiency and improved productivity by implementing specific changes and various enhancements to business procedures. Owner / Web Developer Kruzick.com - Winamac, IN June 2000 to Present Provided high-quality consulting on various technologies, including over 15+ years of successful experience in PHP.    Developed custom applications based on desired technology solutions to ensure exceptional customer service and outstanding results in a timely manner.    Actively used ASP, PHP, MySQL, Visual Basic, C+, JavaScript, WordPress, Joomla, Zen-Cart, and OsCommerce. Manager / Owner ALL SEASONS / WINAMAC LUMBER - Winamac, IN September 2001 to November 2012 Effectively managed a cross-functional team of 12 professionals as well as controlled daily business administrative activities to achieve the organization’s goals and objectives.    Analyzed market needs and developed business processes while coordinating large building projects in a professional and accurate manner.    Promptly maintained inventory purchasing and management to ensure smooth collaboration and excellent workflow performance. Education Bachelor's in Information Technology Western Governors University - Indianapolis, IN January 2013 to August 2016 Associate in Information Technology Ivy Tech Community College - Logansport, IN August 2011 to December 2012 Skills PHP (10+ years), MySQL (10+ years), Linux (10+ years), Project Management (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), JSON (6 years), CSS3 (10+ years), C++ (5 years), Programming (10+ years), JQuery (6 years), Networking (10+ years), System Administration (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), Sales (10+ years), AWS (1 year) Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Project+ July 2015 to Present CompTIA Linux+ June 2015 to Present CIW Web Foundations Associate May 2013 to Present CIW Web Design Specialist March 2013 to Present MTA Networking Fundamentals October 2013 to Present MTA Security Fundamentals February 2014 to Present Assessments Spreadsheets with Microsoft Excel — Familiar June 2019 Measures a candidate’s Microsoft Excel knowledge including common tools, PivotTables, conditional & nested formulas, and custom visuals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/0p8vbg4bdsdo7s3w Problem Solving — Familiar June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/rkjj9aye6y9xmwop Attention to Detail — Proficient July 2019 Identifying differences in materials, following instructions, and detecting details among distracting information. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dbins3j9hokpfsmd Critical Thinking — Expert July 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/deb1phc5dwbvfcht Data Analysis — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/sivxcxmkfazetomt Search Engine Optimization — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/rsrpybxnrm9mdyje Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information PROJECT MANAGEMENT, PROGRAMMING AND SYSTEM ADMINISTRATION    • Designed and developed web applications and user interface for various clients in a timely and accurate manner.  • Coordinated all stages of website creation, from initial design and architecture to development, deployment, and management of websites.  • Controlled project implementation, cross-functional communication, requirement gathering, technical documentation.  • Effectively oversaw various high-profit projects, developed concepts, controlled project flow, and ensured deliverable milestones were met.  • Observed systems performance, advised corrected actions for higher availability and secure data integration.  • Performed general maintenance troubleshoot, backups, and repair computer systems and peripheral equipment located throughout the organization.    BUSINESS RELATIONSHIPS, COMMUNICATION, AND ORGANIZATION    • Proactively established strong customer relationships, including maintaining consistent communication and managing customer needs and expectations by meeting project timelines.  • Managed cross-functional teams and collaborated with stakeholders to deliver outstanding project results.  • Led technical staff responsible for project implementation and support.  • Performed all aspects of team management, including hiring, coaching, evaluating staff performance, training, motivating, and setting professional development goals and technology project objectives.  • Actively communicated with clients to identify their needs and preferences in order to provide exceptional service to clients and achieve the organization’s goals.