Senior iOS Developer Senior iOS <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Engineer Lake Forest, CA Work Experience Senior iOS Developer SK Broadband, Inc December 2016 to July 2017 Analyzed user needs and software requirements to determine feasibility of design within time and cost constraints.  * Spearheaded development of OKSUSU app for iOS which can be utilized through mobile, desktop and smart TV. Android Developer NCSoft Korea, Inc August 2016 to December 2016 Managed and directed technical leadership for all phases of NC-Comix Project. Determined system performance standards. Analyzed information to determine, recommend, and plan specifications and layouts.  * Designed the architecture and played a key role in the development of NC-Comix app. (From the scratch) Senior iOS Developer SK Planet, Inc March 2013 to August 2016 Collaborated with others to determine design specifications or details. Designed the architecture of the app and played a key role in the development for iOS.  * Designed and developed app named Project-ANNE for leasing clothes and accessory. (From the scratch)  * Developed BLE-based point saving app for iOS on a business trip to ShopKick in the US. (@Redwood City, CA)  * Designed and developed OK Cashbag app (80 million active users daily and transaction of 130 billion per year)  * Designed and developed VoD app for iOS named Hoppin. (4 million active users daily) Web and iOS Developer Naver, Corp. Korea October 2010 to March 2013 Led the development of applications for several key services and has played a key technical role. Designed and developed web frontend and mobile app of major projects in Naver Corp. (250 million visitors daily)  * Designed and developed web front-end of the NaverCast, NaverPWE Menu, NaverMe. (From the scratch)  * Designed and developed NaverCartoo app for iOS. Web and Android Developer SK Communications, Inc August 2008 to October 2010 Designed, developed and maintained major services and web sites within Nate.com. Conferred with managements to prioritize needs, resolve conflicts, and develop content criteria. (100 million visitors daily)  * Designed and developed NateComics, CyworldFlag for Android. (From the scratch)  * Reorganized and integrated the Nate.com and Cyworld.com with great contributions.  * Designed and developed NateConnecting, Cyworld Minilife for web. (From the scratch with Spring Framework) Researcher 3 Publications and 1 Patent June 2006 to August 2008 for internet security. Software Developer Army Headquarter August 2003 to October 2005 Developed 9 major projects for web. (EJB, Spring Framework) Skills ANDROID, IOS, OBJECTIVE-C, XCODE, VISUAL STUDIO Links https://linkedin.com/in/picomax https://hooni.net/portfolio1 Additional Information Technical Skills  Languages: Objective-C, Swift, C/C++, C#, Java, PHP, Java Script, Python  Tools: Xcode, Android Studio, Visual Studio, Eclipse  DBMS: MySQL, MS-SQL, Oracle, Informix, LDAP, No-SQL  VCS/SCM: SVN, GIT  OS Platforms: iOS, Android, Mac OS, Windows, Linux, Unix  iOS Frameworks: Assets Library, AV Foundation, CoreData, Audio, Location, Graphics, MapKit, SpriteKit, UIKit, BLE, Geofence, NFC