Data Analyst Data Analyst Data Analyst - Illumination Foundation Los Angeles, CA ? Result oriented professional with over 2.5 years of experience in Data Analysis and Web Application Development using Python, MySQL, ASP.NET, C#, MVC. HTML and CSS  ? Experienced in object-oriented programming, developing, testing and debugging code, designing database and interfaces Work Experience Data Analyst Illumination Foundation - Orange, CA August 2018 to Present Develop, maintain, implement data collections and databases systems like SQL using data analytics and other strategies to optimize statistical efficiency and quality  ? Build and Maintain Machine Learning and Deep Learning models to predict data  ? Identify, analyze and interpret trends and patterns of complex data sets  ? Utilize Tableau, matplotlib and ggplot to visualize, analyze and plot data  ? Generate data visualizations using Python.  ? Interpret and analyze data using statistical techniques to generate reports on a weekly, monthly, and quarterly basis.  ? Use advanced Microsoft Excel to create pivot tables, using VLOOKUP, and other Excel functions Junior Web Developer ATP Technologies - Gujarat, IN June 2014 to December 2015 Develop, maintain and support web-based commercial applications utilizing ASP.NET with C# Framework and SQL Server  ? Encode, debug, test and document existing and new applications  ? Help design scenarios for system and interface testing; plan and execute system conversion and installation processes  ? Participate in peer code and design reviews throughout development cycle  ? Provide client onsite support to troubleshoot and resolves system problems and analyze system performance Education Master of Computer Science in Computer Science California State University - Los Angeles, CA August 2017 to August 2019 Master of Computer Applications in Computer Applications Chaudhary Technical Institute July 2011 to June 2014 Bachelor of Computer Applications in Computer Applications Som-Lalit Institute July 2008 to March 2011 Skills SQL SERVER (2 years), MYSQL (2 years), POSTGRESQL (Less than 1 year), SQL (1 year), C# (2 years), Excel (3 years), HTML (3 years), Microsoft Office (4 years), access (2 years), Powerpoint Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages: Python, JSP, Servlet, JSP, Java, JavaScript, ASP.NET, AJAX, HTML5, CSS, C/C++, C#  Databases: SQL, MySQL, PostgreSQL, My-SQL Server  GUI Tools: Eclipse, Android Studios, Net Beans  Web Servers: Apache Tomcat, Apache Web Server