Sr. UI UX Designer- Developer Sr. UI UX Designer-<span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI UX Designer- Developer - Boeing, Inc Seattle, WA • Over 13+ years of UI web application design and prototyping.  • Possess excellent customer experience intuition; demonstrated success in creating beautiful and user-friendly websites, mobile apps and/or business software.  • Demonstrated visual design expertise through mockups and style guides  • Analyze user interface problems and create on-brand design solutions that meet measurable business goals and requirements.  • Use metrics and research to inform design/UX optimization efforts.  • Javascript, UI/UX., HTML 5 and CSS3 developer with an emphasis on building strong User Interfaces along with intuitive functionality across multiple platforms.  • Drive the design review cycle and close on design requirements independently.  • Strong bias for action; ability to juggle multiple priorities and effectively deliver in a fast-paced, dynamic environment.  • Be willing to roll up the sleeves and do what is necessary to meet team goals.  • Possess excellent communication, presentation, interpersonal and analytical skills. Work Experience Sr. UI UX Designer- Developer Boeing, Inc - Seattle, WA March 2018 to Present • Markup of most of the site through expert knowledge HTML5/CSS3 and front-end development implementation  • Demonstrated excellent proficiency in Adobe Creative Suite, Axure, Omnigraffle, HTML5 and CSS 3 tools  • Firm Advanced knowledge of Photoshop and Illustrator techniques utilized.  • Practices and designs deployed using a wide variety of usability concepts, best practices, and procedures, as well as the basic concepts of user centered design  • Showed leadership in developing design plans/or gathering user research and insights to aid in the design and presentation process  • Focused a trained 'eye' for design elements, specifically around testing and reviewing implementation of a visual design style guide  • Demonstrated ability to work with and lead cross-discipline design teams and collaborate with clients, developers, and fellow designers  • Excellent project management and presentation skills  • Show superior ability to present multiple design concepts to problems  • Finally, showed my ability to maintain focus on project detail and overall brand awareness while understanding and managing business partner and customer needs Sr. UI UX Designer- Developer Tinkr LLC - Seattle, WA November 2016 to March 2018 • Nimbleness; I was able to turn around rigorous wireframes and mockups quickly in an iterative environment and able to generate design ideas quickly (whiteboarding) with team members  • Demonstrated visual design expertise; capacity for creating fun, highly usable designs and layouts, and a propensity towards simplification. UCD (user centered design) and methodologies applied.  • Gave team a general understanding of how design impacts development; and how to design something good that is technically feasible and prudent  • Effectively communicate to scope design initiatives accurately and prioritize work items appropriately  • Created process flows, wireframes, prototypes, high fidelity mockups, and detailed responsive UI and visual design specifications (redlines) for web and mobile.  • Worked closely with cross-functional teams to help define business and feature requirements  • Assessed and optimized the performance of new and existing features by actively participating in usability testing and interpreting analytics data.  • Presented design work to the product team, engineering team, and external partners for review and feedback.  • Contributed to user interface design and development best practices and standards as it relates to and for the creation, publication, and governance of useful, usable content.  • Partnered with highly technical teams and handle multiple projects in an agile, fast-paced environment.  • Participate in code review and unit testing to ensure quality code and markup and performance.  • Developed pixel perfect fit and finish interface layouts and functionality from redlines with HTML 5 and CSS 3.  • Created responsive UI designs and user-flows through consideration of business requirements & technical limitations along with end result being all UI considerations be responsive layout to many platforms and resolutions.  • Worked on several different projects at once, and met demanding deadlines.    Environment: Single Page Application with Javascript, typescript, LESS , MVVM, AngularJS, D3.js, Foundation CSS, Bootstrap Responsive Design Library, Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator, HTML 4/5, CSS 3 and JQuery, TFS, Agile/Scrum, Balsamiq and Axure. Senior UI UX Designer Darigold Inc - Seattle, WA September 2015 to October 2016 • Created process flows, wireframes, prototypes, high fidelity mockups, and detailed UI and visual design specifications (redlines) for web and mobile.  • Requested and drove user research as needed.  • Worked closely with cross-functional teams to help define business and feature requirements  • Assessed and optimized the performance of new and existing features by actively participating in usability testing and interpreting analytics data.  • Presented design work to the product team, engineering team, and external partners for review and feedback.  • Contributed to user interface design and development best practices and standards as it relates to and for the creation, publication, and governance of useful, usable content.  • Partnered with highly technical teams and handle multiple projects in an agile, fast-paced environment.  • Fluent input in best practices for web-based information architecture and design  • Provided strong practical knowledge of user-centered design methodologies and usability principles  • Proficient in standard design tools including Photoshop and Illustrator, Dreamweaver, and wireframing tools, such as Omnigraffle, and Axure.  • Demonstrated visual design expertise; capacity for creating fun, highly usable designs and layouts, and a propensity towards simplification  • Nimbleness; I was able to turn around rigorous wireframes and mockups quickly in an iterative environment and able to generate design ideas quickly (whiteboarding) with team members  • Gave team a general understanding of how design impacts development; and how to design something good that is technically feasible and prudent  • Effectively communicate to scope design initiatives accurately and prioritize work items appropriately  • Updating "cosmos" application features using html 5, heavy Javascript, jQuery, Ajax and MVC 5 and Azure.  • Finalized workflows and best practices for the UI. Created working prototypes to finalize future user stories and epics. All UI had to be responsive ready for many different platforms and resolutions.  • Architected the UI/UX information design and functionality and user-flows.  • Participated in code review and unit testing to ensure quality code and markup.  • Developed application around Microsoft azure architecture and best practices.  • Developed pixel perfect fit and finish interface layouts and functionality from redlines with HTML 5 and CSS 3.  Environment: MVC 5, Azure, AngularJS, Windows 8, Foundation responsive library, Expression Blend, C#, Foundation CSS/Sass, Adobe Photoshop and Ajax, HTML 5, CSS 3 and JQuery, Javascript, TFS, Agile/Scrum UI/UX Designer Microsoft Inc - Redmond, WA March 2014 to August 2015 • Design and develop all javascript Angular Unit tests for MS Financial approval tool using Jasmine framework and Karma as the test runner.  • Worked with lead dev to determine which functions would require the most testing along with the types of Mocks and Promises and "negatives" that would be required to prove the application was either succeeding or failing after any changes in the code.  • Set up the automation of these tests through the integration of node.js and Bower scaffolding tools and Gruntjs.    Environment: Single Page Application with Javascript, coffeescript, LESS , KnockoutJS Custom Databinding Handlers, MVVM, AngularJS, Jasmine, Karma, GruntJS, Bower scaffolding, Foundation CSS, Bootstrap Responsive Design Library, Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator, HTML 4/5, CSS 3 and JQuery, TFS, Agile/Scrum, Balsamiq and Axure. UI/UX Designer Microsoft Inc - Redmond, WA January 2013 to March 2014 • Design and develop all UI/UX for internal tools along with front -end functionality. Strong design sensibility needed to mockup metro look and feel using Photoshop and Illustrator, html 5. Heavy Javascript for mockups and functioning prototype customization. Custom knockout Data Binding Handlers were developed for the animation of our UI; Interactive Data Visualization with D3.js; Design patterns and library was KockoutJS with MVVM.  • Created working prototypes to finalize existing and future "user stories and epics" along with the respective information architecture of the site.  • Participate in code review and unit testing to ensure quality code and markup and performance.  • Developed RESTful web client to consume windows RESTful API (and secure data layer).  • Developed pixel perfect fit and finish interface layouts and functionality from redlines with HTML 5 and CSS 3.  • Created UI designs through consideration of business requirements & technical limitations along with end result being all UI considerations be responsive layout to many platforms and resolutions.  • Translated high-level feature concepts into use cases and customer experience requirements.  • Presented design work to the product development team, executives, and external partners for review and feedback.  • Produced wireframes, high-fidelity mockups and production art assets.  • Developed and maintain detailed UI specifications and user-flows.  • Ensured my designs would work across many languages using different character sets localization string replacement.  • Worked on several different projects at once, and met demanding deadlines.  Environment: Single Page Application with Javascript, typescript, LESS , KnockoutJS Custom Databinding Handlers, MVVM, AngularJS, D3.js; C#, Foundation CSS, Bootstrap Responsive Design Library, Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator, HTML 4/5, CSS 3 and JQuery, TFS, Agile/Scrum, Balsamiq and Axure. UI/UX Designer Microsoft Inc - Redmond, WA July 2011 to November 2012 • Developed pixel perfect fit and finish interface layouts and functionality from redlines with HTML 5 and CSS 3 and responsive design using Bootstrap.  • Created UI designs through consideration of business requirements & technical limitations per different platforms so it relates to and for the creation, publication, and governance of useful, usable content.  • Presented design work to the product development team, executives, and external partners for review and feedback.  • Produced wireframes, high-fidelity mockups and production art assets.  • Developed and maintain detailed UI specifications and templates and site collections.  • Create new Sharepoint "Display Templates," "Master Page(s)" for the Campus Sharepoint Site using Adobe photoshop and Illustrator with redline pixel perfect addendum. Along with UX specifications and use cases.  Environment: Sharepoint 2013 Sites and Applications with Javascript, typescript, LESS and SASS, Foundation CSS/Sass, Bootstrap Responsive Design Library, Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator, HTML 5, CSS 3 and JQuery, TFS, Agile/Scrum, Balsamiq and Axure. UI/UX Designer Microsoft Inc - Redmond, WA January 2010 to June 2011 • Design and develop all UI/UX for internal tools along with front -end functionality. Design sensibility to metro look and feel using Photoshop and illustrator , html 5, heavy Javascript for mockups and functioning prototypes, jQuery, Ajax and MVC 4 for finished applications and tools which supported the many fortune 500 and 100 clients of Microsoft. Design patters were AngularJS with MVC.  • Created working prototypes to finalize existing and future "user stories and epics".  • Architect the UI/UX for Search Engine application with thorough commenting of code for future developers.  • Participate in code review and unit testing to ensure quality code and markup and performance.  • Developed RESTful web client to consume windows RESTful API (and secure datalayer).  • Developed pixel perfect fit and finish interface layouts and functionality from redlines with HTML 5 and CSS 3.  • Created UI designs through consideration of business requirements & technical limitations and information architecture along with end result being all UI considerations be responsive layout to many platforms and resolutions.  • Translated high-level feature concepts into use cases and customer experience requirements as it relates to and for the creation, publication, and governance of useful, usable content.  • Presented design work to the product development team, executives, and external partners for review and feedback.  • Produced wireframes, high-fidelity mockups and production art assets.  • Developed and maintain detailed UI specifications, user-flows and templates.  • Ensured my designs would work across many languages using different character sets.  • Worked on several different projects at once, and met demanding deadlines.  Environment: Single Page Application with Javascript, typescript, LESS , Knockout Databinding, MVC 5 Razor, AngularJS, C#, Foundation CSS, Bootstrap Responsive Design Library, Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator, WPF,HTML 4/5, CSS 3 and JQuery, TFS, Agile/Scrum, Balsamiq and Axure. Web Designer Microsoft Inc - Redmond, WA January 2008 to December 2009 • Updating academic search site to metro look and feel using html 5, heavy Javascript, jQuery, Ajax and MVC 4.  • Work with UX guys to finalize workflows and best practices for the UI. Created working prototypes to finalize future user stories and epics. All UI had to be responsive ready for many different platforms and resolutions.  • Architect the UI/UX for Search Engine application with thorough commenting of code for future developers.  • Participate in code review and unit testing to ensure quality code and markup.  • Developed RESTful web client to consume widows RESTful API.  • Developed pixel perfect fit and finish interface layouts and functionality from redlines with HTML 5 and CSS 3.  Environment: MVC 4 Razor, AngularJS, Windows 8, Foundation responsive library, Expression Blend, C#, Foundation CSS/Sass, Adobe Photoshop and Ajax, WPF,HTML 5, CSS 3 and JQuery, Javascript, TFS, Agile/Scrum Web Designer Intel, Inc - Duvall, WA October 2007 to January 2008 UI Designer Microsoft Inc - Redmond, WA June 2006 to September 2007 Project: Sports Entertainment Group/XBOXLIVE360/ESPN  • Provided fit and finish interface layouts and functionality for the XBoxLive360/ESPN portal releases 2.3 and 2.4 using LUA scripting tied to XUI interfaces.  • Work with XUI artists to implement UX and UI designs.  • Contribute to 'storied' Agile next release meetings with producers and developers on usability and engineering plausibility.  • Rebuilt look-and-feel of advertising materials, including image and brand content, iconography, email campaigns, ads, banners and other graphic materials, thereby improving visual experience, visual design, and UI design.  • Programmed and supported many different tools for work-flow and asset management control.  • Video editing and compositing effects for "Inside XBOX" weekend review promo.  • Adobe "Premiere "and "After Effects" programs utilized.  • Primary development tools were Visual Studio 2010 Ultimate with Team Foundation Server and Havoc Script for Debugging and Development and Source Control.  Environment: XAML, Expression Blend, LUA, XUI, WPF, Silverlight 4.0, JQuery, JavaScript, TFS, Agile/Scrum    • From XML, XPATH AND XSLET transformations the Web Services were a refreshing change from the older ASP the Guard had been using. Via Triggers and Stored Procedures we maintained strong, secure, fast performance of our web applications and web services.  • Strong technical, analytical and communication skills were deployed to function as the team/project lead by reporting bi-monthly on application performance, technical specifications and bug reporting using Segue's web application and web services testing products.  • Responsible of all design and development of external and intra-net sites for the Idaho Army Guard along with traditional server production and development duties and maintenance via custom scripting of the API and server environments.  Environment: XML, XSLT, Web Services, HTML, CSS, ASP.NET, C#, MS SQL Server 2000, SharePoint Server Webmaster/ Web Developer Ineto Services Inc - Austin, TX February 2001 to February 2002 Web Developer Liaison Technology Inc January 2000 to January 2001 Web Producer/Designer Amicus Networks Inc November 1999 to January 2000 Education B.S. in Telecommunication University of Utah - Salt Lake City, UT Skills .net, Visual studio, Api, C#, Git, Html, Javascript, D3.js, Node.js, Json, Razor, Scripting, Xml, Xslt, Ajax, Asp, Css, Dhtml, Dreamweaver, Iis Military Service Branch: United States National Guard Rank: 3rd Additional Information Technical Skills:  User Interface-1st Tier -API: Axure, Balsamiq, Visual Studio Code, Adobe Flash, Adobe Dreamweaver CC, Adobe Photoshop CC, Adobe Illustrator CC, Adobe Premiere and After Effects. Microsoft Expression Blend  Languages/Scripting: C#, HTML 5, CSS 3, MVC4 Razor, XML, JSON, XSLT, XUI, ASP.NET, XAML, MCML, Actionscript 3.0, Foundation CSS3, DHTML, LUA, JAVASCRIPT, KnockoutJS, ASP, T-SQL, Windows 8, .NET ,Windows Mobile, JQuery, AJAX ,YUI, Microsoft IIS, FMOD, Share Point Portal Server 2013, AngularJS, D3.JS  Databases and web services: MS SQL Server 2005, MS SQL 2000/DTS /ADO, Restful API  Workflow and Source Control; Git HUB, Microsoft Product Studio and Source Depot, Team Foundation Server,  QA and Debugging: Perforce, Seapine Test Track, N-Unit, Node.js, Jasmine, JSHint, JSFiddle JSUnit, Havoc Script Debugger, Firebug (Firefox) web dev debugger: Visual Studio debugging and tracing and JetBrains -webStorm.