Freelance Web Developer Freelance <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Administrator - Bulletproof 360, Inc Olympia, WA I have been working in web technologies for the past 10 years. I have experience in front-end and back-end development, web application development as well as SEO/SEM. I have worked in IT, high-level tech and database support and Linux Administration. Work Experience Freelance Web Developer Self Employed July 2007 to Present • Research, design and develop scalable web applications and web services.  • Resolve complex technical issues and improve user engagement, system availability, resiliency and performance.  • Design, code and optimize UI performance and responsiveness.  • Recreate PSD mockups into CMS or HTML5 website code. Web Administrator Bulletproof 360, Inc - Seattle, WA October 2014 to October 2018 • Migrated Magento Enterprise to Shopify Plus August 2018  • Maintained Magento Enterprise e-commerce website with annual revenue over $40M and 7.1M sessions.  • Responsible for all products, categorizing, maintaining content and images  • Utilized HTML/CSS Bootstrap/JavaScript/PHP to update and implement new features and designs.  • Troubleshoot issues and work with multiple departments to create and implement new features as well as work with Customer Service to troubleshoot customer issues  • Analyzed Google Analytics data to detect trends, site issues, marketing promos, product and cart performance.  • Ran A/B tests utilizing Optimizely and tracking analytic results for campaign planning and adjustments SEO/SEM Technician and Web Developer McMurry/TMG - Phoenix, AZ 2012 to 2014 • SEO/SEM analysis of websites and make recommendations based on extensive research.  • Extensive keyword analysis to improve organic search rankings.  • Implemented recommendations by updating existing site or develop new site.  • Designed and developed new websites using Drupal or hand coded HTML5/CSS3. Web Developer Mix Max Solutions Group - Scottsdale, AZ 2008 to 2012 • Work directly with clientele to ascertain requirements and project goals, ensuring that all objectives were outlined and accomplished.  • Created design mockups in Adobe Photoshop.  • Created wireframes and sitemaps.  • Developed websites hand coding XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, PHP and MySQL. Accounting Manager Gradient Analytics - Scottsdale, AZ June 2007 to December 2008 • Accounts Payable  • Accounts Receivable  • Payroll through Paychex for 150 employees  • HR and Benefits assistant manager  • Ran month end and year end reporting to close books Payroll Specialist Saugus Construction Company - Saugus, MA July 2006 to June 2007 • Calculated and produced weekly payroll for 75 union and non-union employees  • Reported payroll, overtime, and coordinated union employee movements with the union  • Was responsible for Accounts Payable  • Responsible for submitting bids and work order changes to contractors Education Some college in Accounting Northeastern University - Boston, MA September 2001 to May 2003 Skills Accounting (3 years), Wordpress (10+ years), Photoshop (6 years), Web Development (10+ years), Ecommerce (6 years), SEO (4 years), Payroll (3 years), Paychex (3 years), Accounts Payable (3 years), PHP, NET, Javascript, Front End, HTML5, HTML, Drupal, Jquery Links https://leekelo.com https://www.linkedin.com/in/kelly-lee-a5002442/ Certifications/Licenses Google Analytics June 2017 to December 2018 Google Adwords June 2017 to June 2018