Sr.Android Developer Sr.Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr.Android Developer - Matrix, Inc New York, NY • 11+ years of experience in IT analysis Software Design, Development, Deployment, Testing and Mobile Application Development experience using Android SDK.  • Experienced working individually on a single product and also with team environment.  • Well versed with Agile and waterfall models.  • Motivated self-starter with exceptional team building, leadership, and interpersonal skills as a hardworking team player with the ability to work in time sensitive environments.  • Possess excellent communication and decision making skills with the ability to adapt to new environments within less period of time.  • Participated in exciting, innovative and challenging projects through all my carrier  • Architected, designed and developer native fast and responsive android apps  • Kept updating my knowledge with various sources of information  • Collaborated with Software Engineers for the design and development of back-end services.  • Continuously research, test, and implement new techniques, frameworks, and utilities.  • Experience working with Android SDK/NDK (Google Maps, Camera, Media Player, Audio manager, Content Providers, Google cloud messaging, Bluetooth, SQLite, Shared Preferences).  • In depth on background processing using AsyncTasks and Services, AIDL and retrieval of structured data, fragments and broadcast receivers.  • Expertise in developing apps using Java, XML, JSON, Google Maps API and Location Services.  • Extensively worked on memory leaks, push notifications, content providers, multiple screen support, data offline usage, accounts and sync on Android.  • Followed industry development standards and best practices.  • Coordinated teams of software engineers to complete required tasks.  • Strong understanding of Android framework, best practices, and design patterns.  • Ensured software created and released conforms to quality writing and executing test plans.  • Worked with other departments to achieve cross-functional goals to satisfy customer expectations.  • Mentored less experienced team members on various technical matters.  • Great understanding of Unit and Functional testing.  • Experienced with Android performance tuning and crash reporting applications.  • Fluent in English and Spanish Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr.Android Developer Matrix, Inc - New York, NY December 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Architected both Android and iOS apps from scratch, having in mind design patterns, security constraints, used third party libraries and testing frameworks.  • Upgraded the camera management to support Android Nougat and Android O  • Built a proof of concept to include the new Instant App feature to this application  • Researched about the possibility and ways to add instant app features for Android Devices  • Integrated social networking with Facebook and Twitter  • Added a native library for resizing and cropping feature with the uCrop library  • Implemented various design patterns including the MVC and MVP  • Consumed the Google YouTube API to play videos, also added a standalone ExoPlayer wrapper to customize the rendering.  • Created a user-friendly reconfigurable interface for using custom themes.  • Implemented early versions of the Floating Action Button with the usage of third party libraries.  • Implemented MVP, Builder and Factory design patterns considering mobile application design and development constraints to user interfaced and memory management.  • Configured the continuous integration process with a Jenkins instance hosted on a private server.  • Gathered requirements for the application coming from stakeholders and third-party entities.  • Worked with agile development to adapt the applications to the different needs of the clients.  • Involved in the full lifecycle development process from product definition.  • Used Crashlytics to track user behavior and obtain mobile analytics.  • Helped with training and documentation using Confluence and through pair programming sessions.  • Closely worked with testing team and used developer testing tools: JUnit, Mockito, Espresso and Robolectric.  • Created all project documentations from requirements to deployment plan.  • Oversaw the publishing of the application in different markets: Google Play Store and Amazon App Store.  • Setup JaCoCo to check code coverage of any merged code in the master branch.  • Modified the SQLite table structure to include new reporting capabilities.  • Loaded the images using a Glide instance to handle the lazy-loading and local caching.  • Created compound and custom UI components improve the user experience.    Environment: Dreamweaver, Android SDK, Android application, Bluetooth Stack, Android Framework APIs (GPS, Camera, Notification), Eclipse, DDMS, Dreamweaver), Spring IOC, Object Oriented Design,Genymotion emulator, Virtual Machine, Microsoft Visual Studio, Multitasking, LogCat. Sr.Android Developer Infovision Inc Austin, TX inc - Austin, TX August 2017 to November 2018 Responsibilities:  • Exported the project from Eclipse to Android Studio  • Teamed Up with the Cybersecurity Team of General Motors in USA to protect the app information  • Implemented Parsing for Push Notifications  • Integrated the Navigation Module with Tom Tom Maps SDK  • Managed ProGuard to reduce and obfuscate the code  • Implemented Bluetooth interface to interact with vehicle features  • Refactored large sections of the app replacing some AsyncTask with Services  • Rewired the code in order to implement the Marshmallow API level permissions  • Worked with GSON for JSON Deserialization coming from web services  • Built custom Listener Interfaces  • Changed the navigation approach from regular activities to fragments  • Built custom views, styles and animations to improve the user experience  • Wrote technical documentation for diverse purposes from specifications to naming conventions  • Mentored and guided junior developers on the architecture and overall design of the app  • Coordinated with the UI/UX specialist to design a user experience for the application  • Implemented content providers to standardize access to different information sources  • Created Compound Views and Custom Views to enhance the user experience  • Renovated the app user navigation based on the Material Design model  • Supported multiple screen resolutions to provide resizing across multiple devices  • Used support libraries for backward compatibility with previous android versions  • Kept our team tracking defects on the app using JIRA  • Created Custom Views to reuse view elements and match the UI/UX specifications  • Participated in daily SCRUM meetings to track app development progress  • Included material design views such as Card Views and Recycler Views  • Gathered requirements with users and stakeholders with various technical resources  • Participated on the decision making process for selecting technologies based on requirements  • Implemented a user interface compatible with Tablets and the smart TVs ADT-1 and Tronsmart  • Included support for remote control and joystick peripherals for the smart TVs on the bank  • Authored the full technical documentation for this application  • Prepared workshop materials and trained users and power users of the app  • Usage of core Android resources like Fragments, Styles, Themes, 9-Patch Images.  • Extensive use of AsyncTask for doing background processing  • Participated in the decision making process for selecting the appropriate technologies  • Supported multiple screen resolutions implementing different layouts for portrait and landscape  • Worked with the UI/UX specialist to design a user experience for the application  • Worked with agile development to adapt the applications to the different needs of the clients  • Used Parcelable Interface to serialize the objects before transferring them to other activities  • Worked with Android notifications (Status Bar Notifications)  • Extensive use of heavy data workloads to show items in a ListView  • Supported multiple screen resolutions implementing different layouts for portrait and landscape  • Dalvik Debug Monitor Server (DDMS) for debugging and testing  • Maintained control of versions using SVN  • Worked with Eclipse  • Conducted meetings to follow up the progress in various projects  • Worked directly with architects for architecture patterns implementations such as SOA (Service Oriented Architecture)    Environment: Java, Eclipse, JDK, Android SDK (Icecream sandwich), Java web services, Android DDMS, SOAP, XML, JQuery, JSON. Android Developer Infovision Inc Austin, TX inc - Richardson, TX February 2015 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Provide technical support of mobile application development and govern the implementations of the applications.  • Actively participated in suggesting ideas for the project and supported related meetings, after hours & weekends.  • Wrote technical specifications and maintained all reports pertaining to application  • Development process as per company standards and apply company policies and procedures to resolve complex issues.  • Communicated effectively with clients to manage expectations.  • Created work estimates based on technology concepts and requirements documentation.  • Developed connection to server using XML parsing, Async tasks, Http network calls to application.  • Developed update patches, modules and components as per changes requested by client.  • Worked on the application landscape variation including development and testing.  • Enhanced user security and account management design implementation in the app  • Synchronized and managed events on the Panel Hub  • Managed communications with Zwave & Bluetooth with various security sensors.  • Gathered requirements for the initial minimum viable product version of the app  • Planned the application architecture for maximum code reusability  • Designed and built a high-quality Android application using the latest features, including an Android Wear module.  • Integrated the fingerprint reader sensor to validate user access faster  • Created custom animations to improve the UX following the material design principles  • Implemented Hockey App for automated builds  • Added support for tablets and phones since only phones were supported in previous versions.  • Created Custom Views to reuse view elements and match the UI/UX specifications  • Presented proof of concept for API AI integration with the whole system  • Implemented an MVP architecture with RXJava & Dagger.  • Improved the performance of the app by reducing memory leaks and crashes  • Standardized and simplified all web services consumptions  • Increased the app security by implementing some best practices of data management  • Covered all ADT home security characteristics to the new Samsung Smart Home app.  • Introduced Kotlin in some new components on newest modules  • Managed communications with devices based on Zigbee protocol.  • Refactored and rewired most of the legacy code to better follow best practices and patterns    Environment: Android SDK Eclipse(with ADT plugin), J2EE, NDK, SQLite, Android Studio, XML Web service, JDK 1.8, GITLAB, ADB server, Emulator and Base device (SAMSUNG TAB 4 10.1, Nexus 9), Agile/SCRUM. Android Developer CyberCoders - San Jose, CA October 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed, developed and designed the app to work in both tablets and phones  • Gathered requirements and wrote technical detailed specifications  • Actively researched about the technology to be implemented hardware and libraries  • Included ZXing library to read and process various barcode types  • Worked with Eclipse over an Ubuntu Linux environment  • Implemented Universal Image Loader for image loading  • Created architecture documentation such as requirements, high level design  • Utilized ActionBarSherlock library to ensure compatibility with action bars in Android  • Implemented Google Analytics  • Added push notifications with Google Cloud Messaging  • Used fragments and tabs to improve the navigation user experience  • Worked on the RESTFul web services development with Java and the Jersey library  • Customized it to run on Tablets when it was originally decided for smart phones  • Replaced the original hardcoded UI to work on XML layouts and reusable views  • Published to the Google play after the app being only available on limited smart phones  • Supported multiple screen resolutions support to work across various devices  • Participated on time, effort and cost estimations  • Presented and delivered the progress of the team to the client  • Participated in SCRUM meetings to review project progress  • Implemented SQLite database for persistent data storage and fast data retrieval  • Tracked issued, project planning and development life cycle with JIRA  • Organized the testing process and managed the testing team  • Involved in Multithreading.  • Involved in creating and extracting data from database using SQL Queries, triggers and packages on Oracle database.  • XML is used to get the data and XSLT and X Path are used to represent the data in web forms.    Environment: HTML, CSS, SQL, JSP, Struts, Java, JDBC, JavaScript, Oracle, Agile, XML, Web Services. Official New York Jets, NJ March 2010 to September 2013 Android Developer    Responsibilities:  • Used Retrofit and GSON to retrieve information from an internally programmed API and make the conversion between the JSON and POJOs.  • Created an exported Content Provider to share findings with other applications.  • Use of SVN for source control management and continuous integration with Hudson.  • Implemented different Java classes to run on services to support the back work of the application.  • Consumed web services with a Volley client to retrieve the information of customizable APIs.  • Successfully deployed the application on the android marketplace and supported the app for different releases of android OS.  • Use of YouTube to incorporate video playback functionality for trailers.  • Tied mobile client applications to critical server-side APIs.  • Used ProGuard to shrink, optimize, and obfuscate the code.  • Incorporated TestFairy for the efficient track of the application crash, error reporting, and usage.  • Participated in the full lifecycle development process from product definition.  • Used JIRA for defect tracking and, project planning, and task assignment.  • Ensure effectiveness of SCRUM related meetings (planning, retrospective) and discussions.  • Used persistent data on the device to store information already loaded for future use.  • Modified the navigation and replaced Activities with Fragments.    Environment: Android SDK, SQLite 3.6, Eclipse IDE 3.5, ADT Plugin, Android API's, RESTFUL Web service, SVN, DOM Parser, JDK 1.6, XML, JSON, GPS service. Web/Mobile Application Developer Matrix, Inc - Scottsdale, AZ May 2008 to February 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC like planning, development to maintenance code enhancement.  • Implemented an Android application with SQLite database.  • Involved in XML parsing messages using regular expression.  • Used the image stream producers to produce the graphic buffers for consumption.  • Involved in creating the explicit synchronization for fence such as display controller and GPU to buffer and to allow this information to be communicated with function parameters and passes from Kernel-space to user-space.  • Extensively used the kernel -space driver to implement a synchronization timeline for a particular piece of hardware.  • Updated the Medi Droid from Jelly Bean to Kit Kat as to provide the compatibility to most of the users and major carriers across United States  • Involved in front end development.  • Involved in writing queries for data retrieval from database.  • Implemented Action Form classes, writing validation files and resource bundles for application creation module.  • Involved in creating and extracting data from database using SQL Queries, triggers and packages on Oracle database.  • Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using client side scripting using JavaScript.  • Created web forms for uploading multiple files to share point document library  • JDBC connections.  • Java Script used for client side validation and scripting functions.  • Involved in converting JSON objects to Java Objects.  • Responsible for client side interaction.  • Involved in Multithreading.  • Involved in creating and extracting data from database using SQL Queries, triggers and packages on Oracle database.  • XML is used to get the data and XSLT and X Path are used to represent the data in web forms.    Environment: HTML, CSS, SQL, JSP, Struts, Java, JDBC, JavaScript, Oracle, Agile, XML, Web Services. Education Bachelor's Skills Android, Phonegap, Android studio, Api, C/c++, C++, Git, Html, Javascript, Json, Subversion, Xml, Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Jni, Database, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql