Interactive Marketing Manager Interactive Marketing Manager Interactive Marketing Manager Bergenfield, NJ Work Experience Interactive Marketing Manager Information Builders - New York, NY March 2010 to April 2019 Authored and implemented best practices for interactive content writing, production, management and distribution used for product and feature campaigns and launches on a global scale.  ? Optimised content through A/B testing using tools like Google Analytics increasing average views of videos from 500+ to more than 50000+ on average.  ? Managed copywriting and product video production that helped grow the company YouTube channel from none to thousands of subscribers.  ? Managed cross-functional virtual teams tasked with the creation and implementation of marketing content which included internal(battle cards, scripts, training videos) and external-facing content (whitepapers, customer testimonials, thought leadership pieces).  ? Managed integration of video content with Vidyard, Drupal, Salesforce and Pardot for email campaigns.  ? Ran software and platform evaluations for events management software, video conferencing and CMS vendors and presented documented results to C-level management.  ? Managed yearly event mobile app which had an average adoption rate of 90% of attendees and reduced 70% in mobile event marketing costs. Strategic Engineering Specialist Information Builders - New York, NY May 2004 to March 2010 Developed interactive customer-facing web-based demos and software simulations which helped generate $6.25M in revenue.  ? Worked with localization teams to create content for Japanese, Spanish, German and French markets.  ? Managed series of thought-leadership, technical training and marketing videos used on website and at trade shows. Web Developer Information Builders - New York, NY March 2001 to May 2004 Designed and implemented ISO 9000 certification document control system for product features, specifications and other release/update documents.  ? Co-produced QA workflow system which facilitated bug tracking and reporting among QA and product management.  ? Worked with senior developers to modernize and automate the patch request system for customers using Javascript, ASP and WebFOCUS.  ? Co-authored a data generator used for creation of custom demos. Web Developer Statswizard.com - New York, NY May 2000 to February 2001 Designed front-end UI for football, baseball and basketball statistical analysis tools that were live on USAtoday.com and AOL.com  ? Created packages for deployment on palm pilot devices and mobile phones.  ? Used Web Analytics to track and report on usage. Web Developer United Nations Development Programme - New York, NY May 2000 to February 2001 Designed, developed and implemented intranet site that served content to 163 countries.  ? Worked with Director and Operations lead to produce UN-compliant and culturally sensitive web content.  ? Hastened go-to-live time of reports by creating automated procedures using ASP. Education Bachelor's Skills Marketing, Product marketing, Product positioning, Seo, B2b, Competitive intelligence, Marketing Strategy, Google Analytics, MS Office, Social Media Marketing Links http://linkedin.com/in/emichaelbernardo Certifications/Licenses Data-Driven Marketing Present Certified Scrum Product Owner (CSPO) June 2019 to June 2021 Project Management Professional (PMP) October 2016 to October 2022 Certified ScrumMaster (CSM) December 2013 to June 2021 Additional Information Skills    Project Management Product Marketing SEO  B2B Marketing Content Strategy and Planning Social Media Management  Competitive Intelligence Product Positioning Sales Enablement    Tools    Google Analytics Adobe Creative Suite Vidyard  Pardot Drupal