Sr. Enterprise Architect Sr. Enterprise Architect Sr. Enterprise Architect - Huntington Ingalls Industries Newport News Shipbuilding Newport News, VA Adaptable professional with 20 years of experience and a proven knowledge of IT strategy, application development, and advanced technology. My career motivation has been to help the companies I work for achieve the full advantages of technology, at the lowest cost possible. Work Experience Sr. Enterprise Architect Huntington Ingalls Industries Newport News Shipbuilding - Newport News, VA October 2014 to Present Currently I provide overall technical leadership and expertise in the creation of systems guidelines and standards and common services to support project requirements. I work within Agile concepts around ideation to minimum viable product for integrating new applications (cloud, on-premise) into the organization's portfolio of internal systems and existing cloud services. I collaborate with technology vendors and external providers to understand new cloud services and technologies and their implications for the organization. I also work with other architects to ensure new services align to roadmaps and to understand the effect on the organization's information architecture.  • Analyzes enterprise business context (trends and business strategy), as well as change requirements in other architecture viewpoints, to derive the integration architecture future state using incremental, agile approaches based on minimum viable product that is extendable as usage dictates  • Develops, manages, and maintains an enterprise strategy and technology roadmap  • Defines high-level migration plans to address the gaps between the current and future state with the mindset of incremental capability roadmaps to demonstrate value quickly, yet with the ability to extend as needed, in sync with the Corporate strategy and philosophy and IT budgeting or other capital planning processes  • Leads the development, of agile, repeatable integration technology/information solution patterns for application of appropriate technology to business requirement  • Leads the analysis of the current technology environment to detect critical deficiencies and recommends solutions for improvement  • Understands, advocates, and augments the business and IT strategies  • Adopt and promote industry standards / best practice / guiding principles aligned with Gartner, TOGAF, Forrester and the like.  • Develop and document enterprise standards and provide technical oversight on projects to ensure compliance.  • Manages the integration of cloud application and infrastructure services into existing IT systems  • Coordinates with enterprise architects and information architects to ensure new cloud services align to roadmaps and to understand the impact on the organization's information architecture  • Liaises with external providers to resolve any issues in the functionality and interoperability of new cloud applications, cloud-based infrastructure, and other cloud services with existing IT systems  • Propose, plan, initiate, direct and document small projects to test architectural proposals and concepts.  • Gather interface requirements from stakeholders and lead the design of efficient, scalable user friendly interfaces. Sr. System Engineer Insigna Technologies - Newport News, VA October 2013 to October 2014 • Modify existing SharePoint applications software to correct errors, allow it to adapt to new hardware, or to improve its performance.  • Develop and direct SharePoint system testing and validation procedures, programming, and documentation.  • Confer with systems analysts, engineers, programmers and others to design SharePoint systems and to obtain information on project limitations and capabilities, performance requirements and interfaces.  • Analyze TRADOC user needs and software requirements to determine feasibility of design within time and cost constraints.  • Develop transactional SharePoint applications, using Web programming software and knowledge of programming languages, such as HTML, JavaScript and jQuery and extensible markup language (XML).  • Test SharePoint 2010 systems or applications for software enhancements or new third party product integrations.  • Review designs, codes, test plans, or documentation to ensure quality.  • Develop, document and revise system design procedures, test procedures, and quality standards.  • Provide staff and users with assistance solving SharePoint related problems, such as malfunctions and program problems.  • Use object-oriented programming languages, as well as client and server applications development processes and multimedia and Internet technology.  • Utilize Visual Studio in the analysis and solution development of SharePoint 2010 production systems. SharePoint Developer CGI Federal - Newport News, VA February 2013 to October 2013 • Design, build, or maintain SharePoint 2010 web sites, using JavaScript and jQuery along with Restful Services. Working within SharePoint Designer and other web creation tools.  • Perform or direct customization of SharePoint 2010 workflows and webparts updates.  • Write, design, or edit web page content, or direct others producing content.  • Confer with management or development teams to prioritize needs, resolve conflicts, develop content criteria, or choose solutions.  • Write new programs or modify existing programs to meet customer requirements, using current programming languages and technologies. Sr. System Administrator General Dynamics Information Technology - Newport News, VA January 2010 to February 2013 • Maintain and administer F22 fighter jet computer networks and related computing environments including computer hardware, systems software, applications software, and all configurations.  • Perform data backups and disaster recovery operations.  • Diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve hardware, software, or other network and system problems, and replace defective components when necessary.  • Test programs or databases, correct errors and make necessary modifications.  • Review procedures in database management system manuals for making changes to database.  • Operate master consoles to monitor the performance of computer systems and networks, and to coordinate computer network access and use. Sr. Web Developer General Dynamics Information Technology - Randolph AFB, TX October 2007 to January 2010 • Design, build, or maintain SharePoint 2007 websites using JavaScript, HTML and ActionScript. Working within the SharePoint content creation tools, management tools, and digital media.  • Update, design, or edit SharePoint 2007 web page content, including list and libraries.  • Confer with management teams to prioritize needs, resolve conflicts, develop content criteria, or choose solutions. Design Site Collection Administrator Training. Lead training classes for 45 site administrators.  • Create supporting SharePoint 2007 documentation, such as metadata and diagrams of entity relationships, business processes, and process flow. Web Developer Coregraphics LLC - Shreveport, LA January 2002 to October 2007 • Design, build, or maintain web sites, using authoring or scripting languages, content creation tools, management tools, and digital media.  • Design complex graphics and animation, using independent judgment, creativity, and computer equipment.  • Create basic designs, drawings, and illustrations for product labels, cartons, direct mail, or television.  • Develop briefings, brochures, multimedia presentations, web pages, promotional products, technical illustrations, and computer artwork for use in products, technical manuals, literature, newsletters and slide shows.  • Script, plan, and create animated narrative sequences under tight deadlines, using computer software and hand drawing techniques.  • Assign and review the work of systems analysts, programmers, and other computer-related workers.  • Evaluate the organization's technology use and needs and recommend improvements, such as hardware and software upgrades. Education B.A. in Computer Graphic Design LOUISIANA TECH UNIVERSITY - Ruston, LA March 1999 Skills Visual studio, Exchange, User interface design, Interface design, Sharepoint, User interface, Mapping, Usability, Usability testing, Virtual machine, Frameworks, Togaf, Solution Architect, SOA, VDI