Director of IT/IT Manager/ Web Admin Director of IT/IT Manager/<span class="hl">Web</span> Admin Director of IT/IT Manager/ Web Admin Lewisville, TX Systems Development & IT Management (23+Yrs)  Designing and maintaining multiple Corporate Intranet, Extranet, and eCommerce sites.  Assisting with web server installation, administration and monitoring/reporting and DB configuration. Developing and maintaining project  schedules and development criteria. Hardware and Software evaluation of products and services in order to provide recommendations.  Analyzing user needs and requirements, complying with user needs and specifications and supporting end. Work Experience Director of IT/IT Manager/ Web Admin Advanced-Online, A Follett Company - Coppell, TX June 2008 to June 2019 Assessed the capabilities maturity state of the legacy IT infrastructure and personnel, developed and implemented an action  plan for departmental improvement. Improved the perception of the corporate IT function from business inhibitor to business  enabler as evidenced through direct customer feedback and service satisfaction surveys.  Selection, supervision, motivation and evaluation of staff, scheduling and planning of workflow, developing policies and procedures, measuring and documenting results for a group or department, solving problems, developing and  monitoring budgets and expenditures, staying abreast of trends in the field, collaborating with other staff and departments, and leading and motivating employees.  Managed a team of seven IT professionals responsible for all eCommerce and local office systems, including  applications, data center, servers and storage, PCs, and telecom. Reported to the GM.  • Oversaw department meetings with staff leads and managers to ensure continuity of information systems  support and goal attainment.  • Established change management and help desk solutions and policies.  • Centralized disparate support documentation for all business applications and architecture. Organized all IT  functions around partnerships to better support business unit goals.  • Developed IT standards and policies designed to streamline desktop and software support.  • Managed IT personnel and full life cycle of information technology infrastructure, applications and services.  Ensured project completion by coordinating resources and timetables with user departments, IT staff.  • Assess new innovative technologies, mission critical systems, security, communications and business continuity. Lead Developer/Asst Manager/Asst Nickels & Dimes, Inc - Carrollton, TX November 2004 to June 2008 Web Admin  Led team of three developers. Designed and maintained an intranet site which provided a variety of reports, tracked personnel,  enabled ordering and inventory. Provided support for Windows 2003 servers and Windows XP desktop systems. Contract Software Trainer/Implementation Specialist JASCORP - Germantown, WI February 2002 to November 2004 Traveled to customer sites, established network and internet connections, and performed operating and other software  installations. Trained pharmacists and their techs in the use of Windows based specialized pharmacy dispensing software which uses a backend of Sybase. Provided phone, remote and in person support. Sr Web Developer/Asst Web Administrator NEC, INC - Irving, TX August 2000 to August 2001 Developed, and monitored several websites and web servers concurrently. using ASP and Cold Fusion. Designed and implemented  browser based content administration tools for administrators and copywriters. Provided direct client support and internal customer care upon analyzing user needs and requirements Upgraded existing websites for content and performance tuning. Software Developer/ Web Developer PARADIGM SOFTWARE, INC - Denton, TX February 1999 to June 2000 Designed custom software for Windows and web.  Carfacts Kiosk  Designed web based automobile pricing module which allowed users to price out specific models of vehicles with selected options and receive an estimate of loan payments. Project evolved from DOS Turbo Pascal to Windows Delphi.    Online Loan Application / Video Conferencing  Developed in Visual Basic and C++, an online video conferencing application. Loan officers used the program to assess and assist users  desiring to acquire a loan for homes or autos. The tool incorporated desktop sharing and online credit verification. Education 78 Credits Toward BS in Computer Science University Of North Texas 1990 to 1994 Skills Network Administration, Excel, Exchange, Active Directory, HTML, testing, SQL, training, Microsoft Office Assessments Email — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/tx-ztwho9pg9p7uu Technical Support — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/izyshxdf8dozkreo Problem Solving — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/8306q8-dk-jnwaeg Research — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to follow protocols, interpret statistics and graphs, identify errors, and choose research methodology. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qofcgopc-ypqiy-r Intermediate Word Processing with Microsoft Word — Familiar July 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of intermediate Microsoft Word techniques including the use of formatting, Track Changes, and Comments. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ljxgnectp0699vm Critical Thinking — Expert July 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xi7r7slzrw3qhn18 Basic Computer Skills: PC — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fuojvgja1h7bzpb6 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.