Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer - Gavilon Group, LLC Omaha, NE • Over 12 years of experience in analysis, design and development of client/server, web based and n-tier application.  • Expert in developing web applications, windows applications, windows services and web services in Microsoft, SharePoint Development.  • Visual Studio .Net IDE using NET Framework 2.0/3.0/3.5/4.0, C#.Net, VB.NET, ASP.NET, ADO.NET Oracle and SQL Server and Windows 7, windows 2003 servers, Benthic, Unix  • Proficient in Web Services WCF Rest service & SOAP, WebApi, Odata, XML, XSLT, XML Schema, XAML, MVC, Silverlight  • Proficient in CSS, HTML, AJAX, Knockout JavaScript, Telerik Controls.  • Extensive experience in Oracle/SQL Server database design, database maintenance, developing T-SQL queries, packages, stored procedures, and triggers using Oracle/SQL Server 2000.  • Expert in debugging an application using the debugging tools provided by the Visual Studio.Net IDE.  • Effective in working independently and collaboratively in teams. Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Gavilon Group, LLC January 2017 to Present Company website: http://Gavilon.com  • Developed Front end interface using angular 4.0/6.0/7.0. to manage tracker data from mobile application.  • Developed Odata web Api for Agris Database to be consumed inhouse and from outside the company by to populate data needed for Mygavilon web site.  • Developed Web Api 4.0 with Odata capability using enable query attributes.  • Consumed B2C Api to get, update user's profiles when logged in using mygavilon website or mobile app.  • Consumed CQG API's and populated quotes with parsed Json data into company database and price board with real time market data.  • Wrote Api to consume Google Graph API and stored Procedure to query elevators locations for near by locations within user requested mileages, address using latitude, longitude.    • Developed messaging system using HubSpot api's to sent out emails and messages for subscribers to company mygavilon notification system.  • Written complex stored procedures, Views for web Api context when needed.  • Supported and enhanced existing MVC applications. Senior Developer Farm Fresh, INC November 2013 to Present • Developed windows applications to manage company inventory maintain the app for any enhancements  • Developed POS system  • Written complex stored procedures, triggers using SQL in SQL SERVER 2005/2008. Senior Software Developer Farm Credit Services February 2016 to January 2017 • Developed new enhancements to an existing company web application using WebApi, C# .net Angularjs, css, sql server 2014, entity framework6 and unit test.  • Developed a new web application: Credit Resolution Tool using angular2, WebApi, C# .net css, sql server 2014 and unit test.  • Involved in designing new sql database for Credit Resolution Tool.  • Involved in gathering business requirements for Credit Resolution Tool.  • Involved in deployment of new projects and enhancements to Production servers. Senior Software Developer Kiewit Corporation February 2015 to February 2016 Company website: http://Kiewit.com  • Developed Soap Web service to replace SharePoint Workflow and resolve threshold limitation for large lists and Libraries using Client Object Context.  • Fully Understand SharePoint 2010 and 2013 and developed SharePoint features for Kiewit Business for complex application Future Planning created and consumed REST WCF service and used Knockout for User Interface.  • Written complex stored procedures for Oracle Database.  • Enhanced functionality in existing account code application developed in MVC and knockout  • Enhanced functionality in existing tool developed in excel  • Worked on complex existing application made enhancements based on the Microsoft technologies using Visual Studio 2008/2010, C#, SQL Server 2008 R2 & 2012, WebAPI, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, MVC framework and SharePoint portal Programmer/ Web Developer West Asset Management June 2010 to November 2013 Company website: http://westassetmanagement.com  • Developed Web Forms using C#, ASP.NET, Silverlight 3/4, RIA services and Telerik Controls, MVC3, MVVM and WCF.  • Developed stored procedures and triggers using SQL in SQL SERVER 2005/2008.  • Worked intensely with Telerik Controls Including charts and Timeline Bar. Programmer/ Web Developer Data Transmission Network June 2006 to May 2010 Company website: http://www.dtn.com/    • Involved in redesign FTP application using .net technology and WodFtpDLX  • Assist in requirements gathering, designing the entire application  • Used N-tier architecture for presentation layer, the business and data access layers and were coded using C#  • Migrated legacy applications to .NET using C# and ASP.NET  • Designed & created stored procedures and triggers using SQL in SQL SERVER 2005/2008.  • Worked intensely on the User Interface  • Developed Web Forms using AJAX, C# and ASP.NET.  • Developed new and enhanced existing on Cascading Style Sheets and XML-Schemas  • Developed Web Services for user authentication and file transfer  • Ensured security to all the portals by creating tamper-proof URLs    • Wrote triggers for sending emails to clients after any kind of transaction has been made  • Extensively used Grid Views sorting and paging  • Implemented template columns for custom nested Grid Views  • Worked on exporting reports to Excel from Grid views and in run time generated XML  • Deployment of application on DEV, TEST, QA and Production Server  • Handled many production issues and enhancement to the existing live application Programmer/ Web Developer at Chief Automotive systems May 2005 to May 2006 Company website: http://www.chiefautomotive.com/  • Develop new and supported existing windows applications using Visual Studio in C#  • Developed new and Supported existing web applications backend with SQL and Oracle database  • Supported E-access Software  • Develop new Web services and windows services to post Sync Data to SQL database.  • Followed SDLC process for new and existing applications.  • Support and improve Framefacts.com as needed IT Support / Programmer American Title INC March 2004 to May 2005 Company website: http://www.americantitleinc.com/  • Actively develop software as part of a project team  • Identify opportunities for cost reduction  • Identify areas of process improvement  • Developed a Windows application using VB6 for the Information Technology support Department, the system has multiple security levels for different users.  • Developed a component for American Title to convert Crystal Reports to PDF Files Without using acrobat distiller, Saved Company Licensing cost.  • Upgrade Company reports from Crystal Reports 8.5 to Crystal Report 10.  • Developed a tool for company intranet for a better Documentation of user control including Tips and tricks for future references for the helpdesk support team.  • Participated in implementing E-mail Security using send-mail Product to meet new laws and client's requirement. French Speaking Analyst IBM / ARC January 2004 to March 2004 Company website: http://www.IBM.com  Computer Software Used: Remedy, Lotus Notes, Home Site Skills: Updated IBM Intranet, ASP, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, DHTML.  • Supported French Speaking Users Located IN Canada.  • Made changes to company Intranet as needed.  • Translated web pages to French.  • Created Buttons and menus for French Language using flash 6 and Photoshop. Education Bachelor's degree in computer science in computer science E.S.C University June 1997 Links http://Gavilon.com