Marketing DBA / Lead Developer Marketing DBA / Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Engineer / Business Analyst / Software Developer Round Rock, TX Reliable and dedicated professional with over 10 years of full stack experience in software development. An analytical professional with excellent communication skills to understand processes, as well as critical thinking to anticipate needs and identify opportunities. Creative, innovating, problem solving individual that can work independently and as a part of a team. Adaptable, able to work in a fast-paced environment. Strong verbal and written communication skills improving collaboration with team members and stakeholders. Work Experience Marketing DBA / Lead Developer Qdoba Restaurant Corporation March 2010 to August 2017 • Collaborated in mapping and validation of data during the migration from in-house SQL database loyalty program to NCR Aloha Loyalty.  • Designed and developed custom webpart controls for the company's SharePoint site to support the marketing department, automating common requests into self-served tasks and creating reports with C#, SQL Server and Report Builder.  • Managed third party loyalty program's replicated DB in SQL Server and transformed raw data from Point-of-Sale and loyalty databases to serve internal reports by creating Stored Procedures, SQL jobs, windows services and web services.  • Created and maintained solutions to transform and exchange data with different vendors such as email provider, loyalty program, survey feedback (voice of the guest).  • Maintained company's websites, created website templates using ASP.NET, master pages, CSS and SQL to support marketing campaigns customizable per store.  • Collaborated in design and testing of mobile application.  • Designed and developed SOAP web services to allow exchange of 4 sources of data; mobile application, loyalty program, store location and operation data and the Point-of-Sale data.  • Improved processes to reduce the time between updates to loyalty data and POS transactions and their transfer to the email provider, from 24 to 4 hours.  • Optimized processes to compile POS and loyalty data to reduce the time between the guest visit and their data transfer to the Voice of the Guest, from 24 to 2 hours.  • Designed and developed solution to transfer loyalty guests from closing stores to existing stores, decreasing the process completion from 2 days to less than 1 hour.  • Used: SQL Server 2008 (Stored Proc., Jobs), VS 2012 (Winforms, Windows Services, Libraries, Webparts, Webforms, Web services), TFS, Sharepoint Designer, Report Builder, Jira, Slack, Agile Software Development Engineer (Full Stack) Qdoba Restaurant Corporation August 2007 to March 2010 • Developed and maintained the original online ordering website for the company.  • Maintained original Qdoba rewards program and migrated to .NET framework.  • Maintained internal website and its interface with SalesNet.  • Used: SQL Server 2008 (Stored Procedures), Visual Studio 2010 (Winforms, Webforms, ASMX), TFS, JQuery, Javascript, HTML, CSS, Telerik controls. Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Monterrey Skills Data transformation, Sql server (10+ years), Sql (10+ years), Ajax (2 years), Asp (5 years), Css (10+ years), Asp.net, Sharepoint (2 years), .net, Visual studio (10+ years), Visual studio .net (10+ years), Api, C# (10+ years), Html, Javascript, Json (Less than 1 year), Object oriented (10+ years), Software development (10+ years), Vb.net, Vbscript (5 years), JIRA (1 year), Agile (7 years) Assessments Critical Thinking — Expert August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_to_profile/0219876f46115d04a11cbe147e35b4b4eed53dc074545cb7 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Core competencies  * Business Analysis  * SDLC  * Agile Methodologies  * Requirements elicitation  * Waterfall model  * DB Design & Development  * Software Development  * Documentation  * Reporting  * Enterprise Software  * Data Transformation  * Debugging, testing, troubleshoot    Technical Acumen  Programming: C#, VB.NET, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, XML, SQL, Classic ASP, ASP.NET VBScript, Visual Basic, JSON, Object Oriented, SQL  Tools: Visual Studio .NET, SSMS (SQL Server), Report Builder, Sharepoint Designer, TFS, Jira, Visual Source Safe, Crystal Reports, Infragistics, Telerik, Slack.  Enterprise, API: NCR Aloha Loyalty (Rewards), SalesNet