Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer - Vista Defense Systems San Antonio, TX Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Vista Defense Systems 2017 to Present Modify existing page sections to match new JavaScript framework  ? Developed new pages to add required functionality using Backbone.js and Marionette.js  ? Expand JS framework to support new functionality  ? Develop MS WCF web services to support incoming data feed  ? Expand web service authentication techniques to include custom certificate authentication  ? Oracle table and stored procedure development to support all of the above Development of new internal web software to support Sales operations Group O January 2011 to 2017 January 2011 - 2017  ? Maintenance of legacy DataStage data processing functions  ? Development of new internal web software to support Sales operations  ? IIS and Apache administration and troubleshooting  ? Support and extension of existing internal web apps  ? Migrating SVN repository to Git, and putting legacy apps into Git Web Software Developer Group O June 2010 to December 2010 Reverse engineered existing Excel spreadsheet tool used for planning  ? Designed web applicaton to replace old Excel tool  ? Implemented Oracle stored procedures to optimize reports Web Software Developer Baytek International October 2008 to March 2010 Designed and developed an application for upgrading Oracle and SQL Server database schema with data in-place  ? Designed and developed tools for analyzing database schema on Oracle and SQL Server  ? Developed protocol for interpreting and exchanging information between VB.NET servers and web applications in a standardized JSON format  ? Designed reusable and extensible user interface templates to standardize user interface across components  ? Extended ExtJs controls to create custom functionality Education Computer Science Texas A&M University Corpus Christi Skills Data analysis, Oracle, Visual studio, C++, Javascript, PHP, MYSQL, CSS, MYSQL, HTML 5, PHP, ASP, Jquery, CSS, Git Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    ? ASP.Net, JavaScript, CSS used for web development  ? C, C++, VB.Net, JavaScript, Java, and Python for non- web development  ? IIS administration, general site setup, URL rewrite rules for reverse proxies  ? Visual Studio used for development and debugging of web applications and Windows services  ? Toad for Oracle development and data analysis