Oracle ATG & Data Conversion Developer Oracle ATG &amp; Data Conversion <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Web Application Developer Avon, OH Experience in developing web applications using Java and a variety of frameworks. Also experienced developing restful web services using Spring framework. Work Experience Oracle ATG & Data Conversion Developer American Greetings - Westlake, OH October 2018 to Present • Develop code to migrate data from a legacy database to a new database in support of a platform migration.   • Assist in new development of a new wholesale commerce site.   • Add DynamicYield functionality to American Greetings ATG e-commerce site through modifications to existing code and creation of new java code, jsps, and javascript.  • Added new functionality to American Greetings ATG e-commerce site in support of new products being offered. Software Developer SKAPPS December 2008 to Present Development of Java applications for proprietary use  • Development of Spring Restful web services with Hibernate based data layer for various applications.  • Development of Web applications utilizing Vaadin framework.  • Development of cryptography application  • Development of networking management application. Web Application Developer Sundance Catalog - Salt Lake City, UT July 2018 to October 2018 • Updated old software to ensure the applications will pass PCI scans.  • Developed new internal use applications to automate time intensive tasks and to reduce chances of errors in completing the tasks.  • Developed restful web services to support new applications. Java Web Developer Department of Technology Services - Taylorsville, UT November 2013 to July 2018 • Develop and maintain various web applications utilized by the Bureau of Criminal identification.   • Develop applications using Java, Spring, Hibernate, GWT, and internal frameworks. Test Software Developer L-3 Communications CSW - Salt Lake City, UT July 2010 to September 2013 Developed Test Procedures for Rover 6.  • Updated the Rover 6 System, Tx CCA and Rx CCA Test Procedures for the October Software upgrade. All test procedures were released concurrently with the software.  • Developed the Hawklink SRQ and ARQ SMA Test Procedures.  • Developed the Hawklink WRA EFC and CM test procedures.  • Developed RF Tests for Hawklink using NI LabVIEW and NI TestStand.  • Update existing LabVIEW and TestStand code to work in a Windows 7 environment.  • Developed C++ DLLs to allow NI TestStand to interface with proprietary Java applications. DLLs allow TestStand to create up to 10 instances of the Java Classes for parallel testing.  • Developed LabVIEW test GUI to run an extended environmental test while monitoring and logging performance data.  • Lead development of Test Procedure development standardization. Introduced several methods to make creating and editing Electronic Test Procedures easier and faster. Engineering Technician (LAMPS) L-3 Communications CSW - Salt Lake City, UT January 2009 to July 2010 Test and Troubleshoot LAMPS Multiplexers and Receiver/Transmitters  • Updated the Bench R/T test procedure.  • Performed acceptance testing of LAMPS systems. Engineering Technician L-3 Communications CSW - Salt Lake City, UT October 2005 to January 2009 • Test and Troubleshoot T-Series Communication Systems using a variety of test equipment and troubleshooting skills  • Maintain Test Laptops to ensure their usability in testing of communication systems  • Configure new laptops for use in testing of communication systems  • Provide technical information to Program Mangers to allow them to make informed decisions on system issues  • Maintain the ability to hold a Secret Clearance at a minimum. Field Service Representative L-3 Communications CSW September 2003 to October 2005 Worldwide  • Provide on site technical advice and support for L-3 products.  • Maintain customer satisfactions by ensuring communication systems are operational. Ensure the communications systems are installed and maintained properly.  • Support various contracts as needed by L-3 and it's customers.  • Maintain the ability to hold a Secret Clearance at a minimum. Satellite Communications Operator & Maintainer US Army May 1999 to June 2002 Worldwide  • Operate and maintained light and heavy Tactical Satellite Communications Terminals  • Troubleshoot and maintained all electronic communications equipment such as modems, Multiplexers, up and down converters, and amplifiers.  • Maintained a system link reliability of 98 %  • Cross trained soldiers from Line of Sight to operate and maintain a heavy satellite terminal at a proficiency that matched that of soldiers specially trained in Satellite Communications Education Associates of Science Salt Lake Community College December 2008 Fair Senior High School 1996 Skills Java (10+ years), GWT (4 years), Hibernate (4 years), Spring (4 years), SQL (6 years), MySQL (6 years), C++ (5 years), Android (1 year), Eclipse (8 years), Subversion (6 years), C# (Less than 1 year), Vaadin (2 years), Oracle (1 year), Git (1 year), Oracle Database Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: E2 May 1999 to June 2002 Satellite Communications Operator and Maintainer Commendations: Army Achievement Medal 2001  Korean Defense Service Medal 2001  National Defense Service Medal 2002  Global War on Terrorism Service Medal 2002 Additional Information Additional Skills    Electronic Test Equipment Spectrum Analyzer, Oscilloscope, Frequency Generator, Frequency Counter, Multimeter, Power Meter, NI LabVIEW, NI TestStand