Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - VARO MONEY Richmond, CA A technically proficient team lead leveraging real-world experience, academic training, along with building web applications and web development using multiple language stacks. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer VARO MONEY - San Francisco, CA March 2015 to Present Related Skills & Technologies: Git, Version Control; HTML5, JSX, CSS3, SASS, JSS; JavaScript, React, Redux, GraphQL, Redux Thunk, Webpack, Jest, Enzyme, aXe, Material UI; component design  and development, data flow, frontend architecture;  As a part of the Varo Money squad develops components and responsive interfaces using a mix- ture of React, Redux, HTML5, CSS3. Used Redux Thunk for asynchronous calls along with transi-  tioning to GraphQL to get data for various interfaces. Leads the offshore team to drive projects  and it's the only team to deliver projects on time. Performs code reviews, helps guide require- ments from technical discussion to development to and into production. Also performs accessibility  testing for web interfaces using multiple assistive technologies on multiple browsers. Web Developer WELLS FARGO - San Francisco, CA March 2015 to Present Related Skills & Technologies: SVN, Git, Version Control; HTML5, JADE, CSS3, LESS; JavaScript, jQuery, NodeJS, Express JS, Dust JS, Redux, React, Gulp, Jasmine JS, aXe; modular Development,  plugin design and development, frontend architecture;  Worked on the mobile banking team to develop reusable components, plugins and responsive  interfaces. Use a mixture of Require JS, jQuery, Redux, Jade, HTML5, CSS3, Dust JS to design the components and AJAX calls to inject data in to Dust JS templates. In addition, troubleshoots  errors and solve issues that arise in various devices and experiences. Analyze business  requirements, provide feedback and develop plans to meet requirements. Leads technical  development of projects, overseeing multiple teams, tracks long term development, validates  accessibility and performs code reviews.  § Led large code migrations and refactoring efforts  § Integrated Redux into multiple apps  § Added aXe accessibility inspector into Jasmine framework Full-stack Developer PIXC - San Francisco, CA March 2015 to May 2015 Related Skills & Technologies: Git, Version Control; HTML5, CSS3, LESS; Twitter Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, NodeJS, Express JS, Sequlize, Passport JS, Stripe, Dropzone JS, Angular JS,  MySQL, RESTFUL Routing, API architecture  As sole developer completely rebuilt customer-facing app including static splash pages that lead  customer to single page application dashboard. The dashboard allowed for full order management, including order creation, review, invoicing, payment and account management. This system  integrated into existing employee administrative dashboard through APIs.  § Utilized Angular JS on the dashboard connecting through Angular resource architecture to backend.  § Backend built using Node/Express frameworks using RESTFUL routing API structure. Also  employed Sequelize for ORM database management, Passport JS for local and third party  logins, Stripe for payment integration and Skipper for file upload to Amazon S3 storage. Front-end Developer CAMPUS BUNDLE - San Francisco, CA November 2014 to March 2015 Related Skills & Technologies: Version Control; HTML5, CSS3, LESS; Twitter Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, Knockout JS, Visual Studio  Responsible for building user interfaces, cleaning up code, adding features, creating solutions for bugs, help to design interface aspects as well as collaborate on the overall user experience. Create  prototypes from wire frames, then a build and data binding the final page-using Knockout.    CODING DOJO, Mountain View, CA Boot Camp Student June 2014 to November 2014 Related Skills & Technologies: Version Control; HTML5, CSS3, PHP, JavaScript, Ruby, SQL, MongoDB, jQuery, CodeIgniter, Node JS, Express JS, Angular JS, Ruby on Rails  As a boot camp student built web applications using JavaScript, Ruby and PHP languages; while utilizing multiple frameworks. Culminating in building a full-featured web app that was deployed to  Heroku.  * Graduated in top 10% by receiving Coding Dojo belts for HTML5/CSS3, PHP, CodeIgniter, and MEAN stack the highest level of certification the program offers.  * Developed an application from an idea, to wireframes, through design, development, troubleshooting and finally deployment. Technical Support Specialist THE PEA PRESS - San Carlos, CA June 2011 to June 2014 Related Skills & Technologies: Support, Troubleshooting & Repair; Web Design; HTML; CSS; PHP;  jQuery; Training; MS Office; Adobe Photoshop  Started out managing printing production operations; quickly expanded role to include technology  support. Redeveloped company webpage to provide increase functionality. Generated fresh graphic and written content as part of website maintenance.  § Completely revamped and rebuilt company website enhancing functionality and user  experience; created cleaner, streamlined user interface, upgraded back-end PHP  operations, and wrote updated content. General Manager PERKINS & MARIE CALLENDER'S INC - Santa Rosa, CA February 2006 to June 2011 Rapidly promoted to oversee full-service restaurant and bakery operations. Hired, oriented, led, coached, motivated, evaluated, and disciplined a team of as many as 50 unit personnel.  Administered budgets; tracked, compiled, and reported financial and performance data.  § Store chosen as regional training center and test site for new software, based on ability to sustain a high-performance unit, producing financial, procedural, and service success. Education Certification UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA AT BERKELEY EXTENSION - Mountain View, CA October 2014 BS in Business Administration SAN FRANCISCO STATE UNIVERSITY - San Francisco, CA 2006 Skills FRONT-END, Git, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, REDUX, Accessibility (3 years), React (3 years), GraphQL (Less than 1 year)