Manager, Web Development Manager, <span class="hl">Web</span> Development Manager, Web Development - Brooks Brothers Manchester, CT Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Manager, Web Development Brooks Brothers - Enfield, CT January 2016 to Present IT Manager responsible for Backend Development for BrooksBrothers.com Ecommerce site built on Salesforce Commerce Cloud / Demandware platform.  Managed the Interface development using ESB (Dell Boomi) and Amazon Web Services to support  Mobile App and other customer facing web applications.  Reported directly to the CIO and Led a development team of Ecommerce and Middleware Architect and developers both onsite and offshore.  Managed a capital budget for Ecommerce Projects.  Technical Lead and Subject Matter Expert with strong knowledge of end to End Eco system supporting the Omni Channel business.  Worked closely with CIO, VP of Ecommerce and other executives within the organization to define and  deliver large scale Digital / Omni Channel Projects.  Adept at partnering with business and managing projects involving cross cultural and global teams to drive quantifiable results.  Provided guidance and direction to team members, project managers, solution architects, developers,  QA, etc. and fostered communication and collaboration among support teams (release management,  Infrastructure, IT Security etc.) to ensure a Secured, complete and functioning solution that delivered  value to the business  Led the development team in successful launch of several large scale Ecommerce and Web Development  projects (CRM/Loyalty, Amazon Pay, BAGA - Buy Anywhere, Get Anywhere, Customer Mobile app,  OMS Re-platform, Launch New Marketplaces, B2B Web applications on AWS etc., ) Senior Web Developer Brooks Brothers - Enfield, CT June 2008 to January 2016 Responsible for Design and implementation of both front-end and back-end functionality for www.BrooksBrothers.com using the Interworld and SFCC / Demandware eCommerce platform.  Technical Lead during the re-platform of BrooksBrothers.com to the SFCC/Demandware platform.  Prepared technical specifications and led the implementation of Processes and key integrations from/to Demandware platform.  Designed and implemented backend Java based processes to import Product Catalog, Pricing and Inventory XML data from downstream legacy systems and applications to the SFCC platform.  Collaborated and worked with third party vendors in implementation of several eCommerce interfaces on both Interworld and SFCC platform. (Few key implementations include BorderFree to support  International, ShopRunner, Accertify Fraud Prevention, QAS Address Validation, Fluid Product  Configurator, MyBuys Product Recommendations etc)  Designed and implemented Java Based Process in integration of the Order management System with Responsys and ExactTarget Web services for all the Order Transactional emails.  Worked on all cycles of Software development. Created Design Documents, Project Estimations,  Technical specifications, Test cases and deployment documents for all projects and tasks.  Provided recommendations and solutions to positively impact the E-commerce site while balancing  Business requirements.  Worked and collaborated with other teams within the IT department and external third party vendors in implementation of several projects and tasks.  Actively involved in monitoring the performance of the website using various metrics and tools,  monitoring various applications implemented to confirm with PCI compliance.  Successfully led and executed annual holiday readiness load tests of the Brooks Brothers website using the Compuware/Gomez load testing platform for 5 consecutive holiday seasons from 2008 to 2013.  Administered and maintained the source control system and deployment tools for the various  applications utilized within the IT department. Programmer Analyst Lillian Vernon Corporation - Virginia Beach, VA October 2006 to April 2008 Responsible for development, analysis and modification of applications for Lillian Vernon and Time Life  website using Java/J2EE based ecommerce platform - Fry OCP.  Converted project specifications and statements of problems and procedures to detailed flowcharts,  applications systems, diagrams, screens and report samples  Prepared and tested systems to assure user compliance and seamless integration with existing systems  and to ensure program efficiency and adherence to coding standards, including correcting errors by making appropriate changes and rechecking programs to ensure desired results are produced.  Worked closely with other IT staff, users and external third party vendors to define and resolve technical  problems and design new systems, and to clarify program intent, identify problems and suggest changes.  Assisted the Team lead in determining status of work for management reporting, including the status of programs, projects, goals and targets. Application Developer Intern Chenega Advanced Solutions & Engineering - Case Llc - Norfolk, VA August 2005 to December 2005 Worked on the developing various modules and enhance the Timesheet application used by the Internal  CASE employees.  Utilized JSP, Servlets and MySQL to develop this application hosted on Apache Tomcat.  Designed and developed application test scripts.    E Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana 2004 to 2004 IN Education Master of Science in Computer Science Old Dominion University - Norfolk, VA 2008