IT Application Intern IT Application Intern Full-Stack Web Developer Shawnee, KS Seeking a position as a Full-stack or Front-End Developer where my knowledge and skills can be best used to create web content which is engaging, and informative to users. Working closely with other developers, and support personnel to ensure content is error-free, and results-driven to implement web content. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Application Intern City of Shawnee - Shawnee, KS June 2018 to August 2018 Developed IT Applications for Internal stakeholders at the City of Shawnee  ? Worked closely with department stakeholder and support personnel to ensure web application is error-free and provides the necessary information to the users.  ? Knowledgeable with web development, graphic design, SQL, reporting requirements, testing procedure, development environments, and integrated design. Training Content Developer nFocus Solutions - Leavenworth, KS 2017 to 2018 Created and Developed IMI Projects for the Training Management Doctrine Directorate (TMDD) US Army.  ? Worked with subject matter experts and support personnel to develop engaging content for active learners.  ? Knowledgeable with web development, graphic design, learning management systems, and deployment of training development products.  ? Previously held a SECRET clearance Multimedia Developer Serrano ITS - Leavenworth, KS 2014 to 2017 Created E-Learning content for the Combined Arms Center, Ft. Leavenworth, KS  ? Extensive experience creating courseware across multiple authoring environments  ? Strong advocate of User Interface design that engages the student Multimedia Developer VCom3D, Inc - Leavenworth, KS 2011 to 2014 Created E-Learning content for the Combined Arms Center, Ft. Leavenworth, KS  ? Created several lessons in a wide range of topics for officers in the US Army's Command and General Staff College using JavaScript, HTML, Adobe Animate and Flash 4.  ? Created a user interface design, which provided the learner with a learning environment where they can further the learning experience while maintaining standards SCORM Engineer III Cubic Applications, Inc - Leavenworth, KS 2008 to 2011 Created E-Learning content for the Combined Arms Center, Ft. Leavenworth, KS  ? Extensive experience creating courseware across multiple authoring environments  ? Strong advocate of User Interface design that engages the student  ? Previously held a SECRET clearance Freelance Web Developer Douglas Boyce - Shawnee, KS April 2019 I am a freelance web developer seeking new opportunities with a progressive company whereby my skills and abilities will assist clients with web design and development strategies. Education Full-Stack Web Developer University of Kansas - Overland Park, KS July 2018 to February 2019 Bachelor of Science in Information Science University of North Florida Johnson County Community College Center for Business and Technology Associate Degree in Interactive Media Florida Community College at Jacksonville Skills Customer Care, Customer Service, Call Center, CSR, Front-End Development (1 year), HTML. CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Vue, React, Handlebars, MongoDB with Mongoose, MySQL (1 year), Front End, UI, Jquery, Javascript, Angularjs, Node, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Front-End, React, User Interface Links https://www.douglas-boyce.com http://www.linkedin.com/in/douglasboyce Military Service Branch: US Army Service Country: United States Rank: E-5/Sargent June 1978 to July 2000 US Army - Fort Bragg, NC  US Army - Europe  US Army Reserve - Jacksonville, Fl  US Army Reserve - Desert Storm/Desert Shield Commendations: Army Commendation Medal  Army Service Ribbon  Marksmanship Ribbon Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Adobe Creative Suite  ? JavaScript  ? JQuery  ? Vue JS  ? Responsive Web Development  ? Workflow Analysis  ? Node JS  ? React  ? REST  ? Express  ? MongoDB with mongoose, mySQL  ? HTML, CSS    APPLICATIONS BUILT    1. Giftastic - Animal: I used the GIPHY API to make a dynamic web page that populates with gifs. I used called the GIPHY API and used JavaScript and jQuery to change the HTML of my site.  2. LIRI CLI using NodeJs - In this assignment, I made LIRI. LIRI is like iPhone's SIRI. However, while SIRI is a Speech Interpretation and Recognition Interface, LIRI is a Language Interpretation and Recognition Interface. LIRI will be a command line node app that takes in parameters and gives you back data.  3. Crystals Collector Game - In this assignment, I created a fun and interactive game for web browsers. This time, the app must dynamically update your HTML pages with the jQuery library. Clicking on each crystal add points to a variable which compares to a random value. The game ends when either the sum exceeds the random value or is equal to that value.  4. Bamazon-CLI: Another node JS project, which reads data from a mySQL database and generates a shopping cart for the user.  5. ISS Tracker - A JQuery project with a mySQL backend. It shows the current location of the International Space Station in relation to a given address.  6. Expense - A JQuery with a Vue Interface that connect to a mySQL database. This allows the user to track expense, and upload their receipts.  7. eFitness - An Express-React-Node project with a Mongoose DB backend. This app allows the user to track their activity (exercises) and personal data such as Blood Pressure information.  8. Clickey-Click - A Express-React-Node project. A game where the user clicks on images to gain points, it they click the same picture twice the game ends and the score is reset