Senior Application Developer Senior Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Application Developer - Allied Solutions, LLC Carmel, IN Highly experienced Programmer/Analyst with experience using object oriented design techniques and programming languages, including VB .NET, C#, and Microsoft .NET Technologies. Planned, determined requirements, designed, developed and documented and debugged Windows console, graphical user interface, full-screen applications, and web sites. Demonstrated leadership abilities and team work skills as well as ability to accomplish tasks under minimal direction and supervision. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Application Developer Allied Solutions, LLC - Carmel, IN March 2017 to Present Developed several user enhancements and web pages using ASP .NET and C# for use in SiteCore environment. Some of the pages and enhancements:  • HTTP/XML fed Careers page with search functionality  • Enhanced the functionality of the existing web page to include the upload of notes, attachments, and availability of this functionality  • Facilitated user authentication based upon the user role and permissions defined within SiteCore  • Refactored web application to facilitate SSO (Single Sign-On) utilizing SAML and JSON methodologies  • Refactored web application to reflect updates and changes to existing SOAP web services Sr. Web Application Developer True Value Company - Chicago, IL January 2016 to February 2017 Held various positions at True Value and its predecessors for 27 years in information technology, including principal application developer, project manager, technical and internal consultant, project leader, system analysts and programmer. Managed and participated as a contributor on special projects. Coordinated product enhancements for item and investment data. Managed and coordinated efforts with internal staff, external vendors and consultants. Oversaw and designed application and data integration activities on the Enterprise Service Bus across multiple platform and to the Teradata warehouse.  Designed and implemented database driven page-level security with custom roles  • Managed and developed over 75 interfaces development for the new Customer Focus Vision tool used by True Value Rewards system using IBM Sterling Integrator B2B tool as an Enterprise Service Bus. This project improved True Value's sales by providing more information in there distributed systems about the end customer shopping at True Value stores.  • Improved processing time of Oracle Retail Application enterprise architecture processing by 35% by tuning the batch process when system went live, allowing other systems which depended on the item data to receive the update within the same business day instead of two days later.  • Design data architect, modeled and performed DBA modifications for the Oracle Retail Application.  • Evaluated and recommended tools for integrating item data between three different platforms and databases for new project. Presented recommendation of solutions to CIO and Director of the applications. Once recommendation was accepted integrated the Item distributed database systems across three distributed platforms, using IBM WebSphere tools as the Enterprise Service Bus for the installation of the Oracle Retail Application.  • Influenced and accountable for overall enhancement or defect corrections needed for the client server Oracle applications in the department, along with directly supervising as many as 6 developers and presenting reports to director. Assigned tasks to all developers on the project and evaluated their performance  • Collaborated and managed deployment of application enhancements to Oracle Retail Application, consolidated changes from up to 20 developers in one application and managed and built release packages for deployment through all test regions. Prepared packages for technical service team to deploy changes to production. Sr. Web Application Developer Fahrenheit IT - Indianapolis, IN January 2015 to December 2015 Software Development  Developed, tested, and deployed an online purchasing, sales, and inventory management application using ASP .NET and VB .NET at the DNR. This application contained an internal facing component as well as a public facing component for online purchase. Some of the relevant components:    • Public facing merchandise selection, with itemized shopping cart functionality  • Credit card/EFT processing  • Custom built, multi-level security access based upon security privileges, customizable and maintainable via SQL Server to facilitate user authentication  • Built and updated the relational database backing up the application  • Inventory management, maintenance, error prevention  • Order management and maintenance  • Intuitive and simple to use data entry mechanism for placing phone, walk-up or mail-in orders enforcing the current business rules associated with ordering  • Invoices, receipts, logs, and other reports utilizing SQL Server's stored procedures and Visual Studio  • Administrative account management including privileges and information  • Customer account management Ambassador Steel Auburn, IN June 2012 to December 2014 Software Development    • Developed applications and enhancements to existing applications to facilitate business requirements  • Debugged and fixed applications that had gone into production but whose problems had not been discovered during testing  • Used modern programming technologies, including LINQ, DevExpress controls, and multi-threaded application development  • Gathered requirements and end user needs to determine the best use scenario and methodology for applications, data storage/retrieval, and reports  • Developed Database Applications for End Users:  • Created Stored Procedures to leverage SQL Server execution plan and optimization technologies  • Designed intuitively useful GUI's to meet end user needs  • Provided useful options allowing end users to easily select their query parameters  • Designed reports and reporting tools  • Performed Company Wide Data Conversion  • Analyzed newly-acquired company's merchandise and sales data in their current system (ASA) at the database level  • Created and updated cross-reference database to properly map company specific ID's and product numbers  • Queried, cross-referenced, summarized data into a format meaningful to Ambassador Steel  • Updated Ambassador's database systems with the newly-acquired company's merchandise and sales information  • Assisted Users in SharePoint Technologies  • When necessary, developed end-user SharePoint sites and data structures  • Trained users to effectively interact with their web sites and SharePoint in general  • Granted users appropriate read, update and modification rights when appropriate  • Debugged and refactored misbehaving software  • Updated and improved behaving software to meet end-user growing needs  • Maintained and launched monthly maintenance builds, making last-minute changes as necessary to ensure a successful launch Sr. Web Application Developer Manpower Professional at B. F. Goodrich - Fort Wayne, IN March 2010 to May 2012 Software Development    • Refactored, refined, and upgraded extrusion die utility software to:  • Utilize modern database functionality, including SQL Server and Access  • Comply with current and emerging software engineering standards  • Maintain corporation-wide, global information uniformity  • Meet global expectations by implementing the metric system  • Implement user-requested improvements  • Support industry innovation Sr. Web Application Developer API Systems at Verizon Data Center - Fort Wayne, IN August 2009 to February 2010 Software Development/System Engineering    Developed tools using a wide array of technologies (including C#, VB .NET, C, C++, DOS Batch files) to enhance or replace various aspects of daily reporting, monitoring and administration affecting Verizon's global operations, including:  • A secure, multi-component file transfer solution for an automated client server environment.  • A highly configurable repository monitoring/logging tool, allowing an administrator to any scope of disk activity (drive, directory tree, directory, file)  • Administered and configured workstations to automate the monitoring process.  • Administered web-based applications, including documentation and new content.  • Redesigned systems to meet the criteria of new security protocols and modern technology including: database redesign, client-server SSH, special encryption techniques and coherent administration presentation. Monitored 175 applications on over 300 remote automated systems and provided break-fix support. Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science Thomas Edison State College - Trenton, NJ Associates Degree in Computer Information Systems Ivy Tech State College - Fort Wayne, IN Skills SQL SERVER (5 years), SQL (5 years), STORED PROCEDURES (3 years), .NET (3 years), SHAREPOINT (2 years), Java, C#, Angularjs, MVC, TFS Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages:  C++, C#, Visual Basic .NET, C, Java, Delphi, Pascal, Basic, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, VBScript, Visual Basic for Applications, DOS Batch Files  .NET Skill Set:  .NET Framework 2.0, 3.0, 3.5, 4.0, 4.5 and Common Type System, Linq, Entity Framework, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, .NET Class Libraries, MVC, jQuery, AJAX  Databases:  SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2012; SQL Server Stored Procedures; SQL Server Reporting Services  Software:  Visual Studio 2000 - 2015, SQL Server Management Studio, Redgate Tools, Team Foundation Server, Microsoft Visual Source Safe, SharePoint 2007, CodeBlocks, DevCPP