MANAGER OF APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT MANAGER OF APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT MANAGER OF APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT - MASSAGE ENVY FRANCHISING, LLC Scottsdale, AZ Work Experience MANAGER OF APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT MASSAGE ENVY FRANCHISING, LLC June 2015 to Present • Hired and managed an entire development team consisting of 7 highly skilled and motivated business intelligence and software developers  • Oversaw the development of the Franchisee Portal that is used by all corporate employees and Franchise field employees. The Franchisee Portal allows Corporate Employees and Franchisees and Regional Developers to access reports for all of their owned clinics and to create P&L reports and incident reports  • Managed the development of 3 business critical applications (data warehouse, reporting engine and royalty engine) to coincide with a point of sale conversion for all 1300+ clinics  • Supervised an overhaul of our external facing website to comply with new WCAG 2.0 standard ( Web Content Access Guidelines) for ADA compliance  • Planned, designed, developed and deployed new and existing application enhancements. Collaborated with C-level management, legal, marketing and operation teams to identify opportunities for various product feature enhancements on nationwide projects SOFTWARE DEVELOPER MASSAGE ENVY FRANCHISING, LLC March 2013 to June 2015 • Developed multiple SSRS reports for internal and external facing customers  • Maintained the codebase for the Franchisee Portal, an external facing franchise focused website, specifically the P&L, reporting, and incident reporting tool  • Developed scores of SQL queries that allowed multiple internal departments to report data to our parent company  • Served as Scrum Master on multiple agile development projects using both internal and outside contractor teams  • Provided multiple data extracts that were used for internal decision making by C-level executives and board members. Also provided data extracts used by the Legal team involving sensitive legal issues WEB APPLICATION DEVELOPER P.F. CHANG'S June 2011 to 2013 • Built application from scratch that allows managers to assign resources to projects and allows user to track hours against an assigned project. Interfaced with Sharepoint via web services.  • Built survey application that is used by all the restaurants to allow guests to give feedback based on unique survey ID  • Self-directed learning on Android SDK and iOS to begin modifications on existing mobile applications SQL REPORT DEVELOPER P.F. CHANG'S June 2007 to 2011 • Responsible for report application design and development ensuring architecture will integrate with current and cross functional requirements  • Partner with Developer/Team Lead/Project Management and/or internal customers to gather information about reporting needs, objectives, functions, features, and input and output requirements using the 'Agile' methodology  • Analyze reporting solutions to identify root cause of errors and revise code  • Modified existing SSIS packages to populate data warehouse with replicated data for existing reports SENIOR SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR, STARHRG UB, HCFA, DENTAL 2004 to 2007 • Developed multiple administration tools deployed to our company to assist in reporting and analysis of production data. (TSQL, DTS, SP, ASP)  • Involved in troubleshooting systems in the enrollment file process. Including the tracking of lost enrollment data, corrupted data, membership card printing/mailing, and expert support to the 20+ account services members. Required detailed process understanding, advanced SQL abilities, and effective communication to multiple departments.  • Loaded EDI claims (UB, HCFA, DENTAL) nightly into PowerSTEPP claims system. This process included the logging of the files once received from SourceCorp, and manual loading of each individual file utilizing CSC's ED3011 load application. Statistical reporting was conducted using the ED6011 report.  • Provided detailed claims reporting utilizing SQL, knowledge of ICD9, CTP, and claims lines. These reports were provided to compliance and Department of Insurance during detailed audits. Through indexing was able to dramatically decrease access times. DEVELOPER STARHRG - Phoenix, AZ 2002 to 2004 • Developed C#/SQL based time tracking application used by StarHRG's employees. Application played a critical role in budgeting allowing senior management to accurately measure the usage of all their resources.  • Senior contact for EntryPoint enrollment data import engine. EntryPoint was a versatile data scrubber converting a myriad of inbound file formats into useable data for El Dorado claims system.  • Administered StarHRG's $1M+ file enrollment system. Utilizing MSSQL, IBM AS/400, PowerSTEPP, and DB2 - "OASIS" handles over 400 clients with a count of 280,000+ enrollees.  • Migrated customized MS Access applications into C#/SQL version. Actively maintained project from start to completion including documentation, development, UAT, and deployment. Education B.S. in COMPUTER SCIENCE ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY May 2001 Skills Excellent organizational skills (10+ years), Technical Leadership (5 years), Software Development (10+ years), C# (10+ years), MVC (3 years), SQL (10+ years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/dan-o-meara-1ab0266 Certifications/Licenses Scrum Master Certified Scrum Master Assessments Problem Solving — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/sck3-rvpbxlenxes Critical Thinking — Expert August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/4icfgfij12jakqdr Attention to Detail — Highly Proficient August 2019 Identifying differences in materials, following instructions, and detecting details among distracting information. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/taofwsrypplqdfo4 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.