Job Seeker Gresham, OR Work Experience Hawthorne Gardening Company - Vancouver, WA November 2018 to April 2019 Worked with internal departments, implementing new features and bug fixes for Hawthorne's corporate websites, coding against a .NET ASP MVC 5 framework, and Web API on the backend, utilizing SQL Server for database access.  ? Created Unit tests for new features, utilizing XUnit, and created Unit Tests for existing components  ? Operated in an Agile environment, with daily stand ups, and 3 week sprints  ? Worked on fixing bugs in existing SQL Server stored procedures, and Implemented new Stored Procedures  ? Implemented front end features using Razor views, vue.js and angular4, building new vue.js web components, and mixins.  ? Interacted daily with the Samange issue tracking system, and Jira, fielding any customer issues that might pop up, sometimes working with the customer over the phone. Hedgehog Development - Portland, OR March 2015 to October 2017 Worked with Visual Studio, and the companies Visual Studio plugin for maintaining and implementing Sitecore objects, to build Solutions for customers using ASP.net MVC and NodeJs, communicating with SQL Server, mogodb, and Solr  ? Often performed frontend tasks like implementing Angualar Services to communicate with developed backend services, fixing bugs in a Knockout.js framework, to writing pure javascript solutions.  ? Built Sitecore Solutions from the ground up, from manual installs, to using the Sitecore Sim application scaffolding app, while maintaining the flexibility to jump into a Client's existing Sitecore Solution and modify it, to converting an existing customer's solution to a Sitecore based solution, often again, from the ground up.  ? Worked closely with internal Program Management as well as any Client's Program Managers, to break down client requests into User Stories and then break those stories into tasks, providing estimation of those tasks, if needed.  ? Participated in SCRUMM / AGILE development ideologies, unless the Customer had a custom process, I would participate in daily internal stand ups and / or daily standups including required Client participants. nResult - Vancouver, WA March 2014 to December 2014 Worked on modifying the company's core, ASP.NET / C#, app to talk to a Web service backend implemented in ServiceStack.  ? Implemented many of the application's ServiceStack service interface endpoints  ? Worked on implementing the 2.0 version of the company's ASP.NET app. Rebuilt app from the ground up as a SPA app utilizing an ASP.NET MVC backend and an angular.js front end.  ? Wrote custom angular directives and services to increase component reuse. email archiving, data leak prevention, and virtual compliance officer Smarsh - Portland, OR March 2009 to February 2014 - Portland, OR    ? Worked on implementing new functionality for the front-end and internal MVC.net websites  ? Developed modular IM Archiving application that allowed company to quickly implement custom IM archiving solutions. Application archived XML IM logs, which required custom XML parsing for each message type.  ? Built a Twitter message archiving module for the IM Archiving application that involved writing a custom twitter api used to communicate with the twitter REST api.  ? Helped to move company website from an ASP codebase to an ASP.net, then an MVC.net codebase.  ? Briefly worked in an R&D role evaluating new web technologies for the public and internal website. Evaluated frameworks such as Ruby on Rails, Angular.js and Flask.  ? Worked on mission critical archiving applications including: email archiving, data leak prevention, and virtual compliance officer, implemented new features and fixed bugs.  ? Developed an Outlook plugin, called End User Access, that allowed customers to view and restore archived messages through Outlook.  ? Built a WCF web service that the Outlook plugin used to make requests for company data.  ? Worked on an OAuth 1.0 web service used by the Outlook plugin to authorize users.  ? Worked closely with QA to aid in testing bugs / new application features.  ? Set up Continuous Integration system (Jenkins), to aid in testing and implementation of key company applications.  ? Developed many backend utility applications to aide in day to day operations. ProSource Network - Portland, OR September 2008 to March 2009 Built customized web site solutions for a diverse number of clients  ? Developed websites from the ground up using custom PHP Frameworks built from the ground up  ? Modified existing E-commerce sites programmed using Ruby On Rails adding new payment processors.  ? Implemented an Ajax jQuery based RSS widget for a customer's existing website.  ? Utilized the CakePHP framework to build an administration site to control the Ajax based RSS widget. Tek Systems - Portland, OR January 2007 to September 2008 Portland, OR    ? Re-factored existing ajax based application to utilize prototype.js and to provide a more streamlined user experience  ? Helped to implement a custom PHP MVC based framework, which is used as a backend for all ajax based calls (www.printandpraise.com)  ? Built new websites utilizing the Drupal CMS framework  ? Coded custom PHP based drupal modules.  ? Wrote various server scripts written in Ruby, Perl, and PHP  ? Used jQuery to develop a web application that allowed users to create Song books in a drag and drop UX. Ajax / PHP Developer Attensa - Portland, OR April 2006 to January 2007 Developed Ajax based administrative site for a web based RSS News reader  ? Implemented, from scratch, JavaScript based Ajax libraries, which were used to retrieve data from a PHP / Java Backend  ? Implemented PHP Libraries and necessary logic required to query and process data returned from a Java based database  ? Wrote PHP logic and objects to parse XML data returned from the Java database. The objects used a combination of SAX and XSL Templates to properly format data for front end display  ? Wrote javascript admin logic with jQuery, utilizing Ajax calls to communicate to a backend service, which managed the data for a user's RSS subscriptions. Web Developer Pacific Crest Technologies - Portland, OR October 2004 to April 2006 One of three developers Involved in re-factoring a MySQL / PHP online poker administrative web site, to incorporate Oracle financial transactions  ? Rewrote most of the MySQL logic to work with equivalent Oracle stored procedures / stored functions  ? Wrote PHP Object libraries to help encapsulate new Oracle business logic  ? Worked closely with Oracle DBA to define data logic for newly implemented stored procedures / stored functions  ? Incorporated Javascript / AJAX features to populate forms with dynamically generated content and to provide form validation Primary Web Developer - OpenPress www.openpress.com - Portland, OR July 2004 to August 2004 Portland, OR    ? Modified existing Microcap software, a PHP / MySQL back end, and implemented an archive system which generates a static HTML copy of news articles and press releases for system backup purposes and better search engine ratings  ? Implemented a book review section to allow users to add paid book review submissions  ? Added an articles and news worthy stories paid submission section to the site  ? Added a PRFirms section to the site which lists any company firms related to press releases submitted to the site  ? Implemented a stars ranking system for press releases giving the user the ability to move their press release higher to the top of the listing for greater visibility  ? Developed a statistics report for the admin section listing how many press releases were submitted to date, and the total sales of press release submissions Primary Web Developer Hotmicrocap - Portland, OR June 2004 to July 2004 www.Hotmicrocap.com) Portland, OR    ? Modified existing Microcapwire software , a PHP /MySQL code base, to include a Hot Stock Picks submission system  ? Added a stars rating system which allows users to add paid contributions to a Hot Stock Pick which move the Stock Pick Closer to the top of the listing, giving it greater visibility  ? Developed a Hot Stock picks Websites feature to allow users to post websites related to Hot Stock Picks Primary Web Developer - Microcapwire www.microcapwire.com - Portland, OR May 2004 to June 2004 Portland, OR    ? Modified existing PHP / MySQL code base  ? Implemented a 2checkout e-commerce payment system to allow users to pay for subscriptions with a credit card  ? Implemented an E-Mail alert subscription system which allows users to be notified by e-mail when ever new Press Release content is added to the system Primary Web Developer My Matchmaker Internet Dating Software - Portland, OR February 2004 to April 2004 Rebuilt existing PHP / MySQL code base from the ground up  ? Added A PHP template system to allow the end user to apply their own graphical themes to the software  ? Built an Administration Center for easy configuration of the software  ? Implemented a paid user membership system which interfaces with the 2checkout e-commerce system Senior Web Developer Intel - Lake Oswego, OR December 2002 to February 2004 Worked in a team to develop a web backend for a sales tool written on top of Microsoft Outlook  ? Developed back end in ASP.Net using C# and Visual Basic.Net  ? Primary web developer on several projects involving a mixture of ASP and MS SQL Server  ? Gathered technical requirements from internal customers and wrote up detailed requirement documents used to write up project estimates. Primary Web Developer - Independent Contract Tewksbury Ornaments - Lake Oswego, OR June 2002 to June 2002 www.tewksburyornaments.com)    ? Migrated web site from a Microsoft code base to a Unix CGI code base  ? Ported ASP scripts to Unix CGI scripts written in PERL  ? Incorporated Server Side Includes and Style Sheets to maximize code reuse  ? Per customer request, removed Online Order Scripts and replaced them with a  ? PDF Order form Junior Web Developer for Intel TMP Worldwide - Lake Oswego, OR January 2001 to February 2002 Team lead on several projects for the Intel Corporation's IDS website.  ? Worked closely with customers to help implement desired application features.  ? Created an internal E-business web portal using a mixture of PHP / MySQL  ? Developed Graphical User Interfaces on externally facing and administrative websites, utilizing ASP, JavaScript and SQL Server.  ? Designed and incorporated COM based application solutions.  ? Analyzed and modified existing code bases to increase performance and stability of existing applications  ? Designed detailed documentation for existing projects, outlining code operations and specific business rules  ? Assisted QA in training for specific applications to help test product functionality  ? Used Excel and Access VBA to aid my team lead and QA team to match up defects with possible Defect IDs while working on the "Defect Meteorology" project, by pulling records out of an Access 2000 database into an Excel 2000 Spreadsheet. Web Site Developer Account On Me - Cottonwood, AZ October 1998 to November 2000 Developed web site for financial services client utilizing HTML/DHTML, Cascading Style Sheets and FrontPage Forms for user interface  ? Utilized Active Server Pages incorporating JavaScript, VBScript and Python (scripts)  ? Developed/maintained client database using MS Access and SQL Server  ? Created records application with Visual Basic for report forms for client to customer interaction  ? Developed two Java applets, one to display headlines and current site news and another applet used to create a tabbed interface to site navigation  ? Utilized graphic production elements within Photoshop 5.x for site development  ? Background in original artwork and graphics Skills Asp, Css, Interdev, Visual interdev, Internet information server Additional Information Technical Skills:    Operating Systems:    Windows - 10, 8.1,7,Vista,2000,NT, XP, Me, 98 & 95; Linux OS distributions including, Red Hat, Ubuntu, Arch, and Gentoo, Mac OS X    Applications:    Visual Studio.NET, Internet Information Server (IIS), SQL Server 2008 / 2010, Project, Access, Visual InterDev, Office, Visio, Visual Source Safe; LinqPad, Powershell ISE, MySQL4, MySQL5, Apache Web Server, Adobe Photo shop, Eclipse, Textmate, Vim, Jenkins (Continual Integration), Jira (Ticketing system), Fisheye (Source Code Review)    Source Control:    Git, TFS, Subversion    Languages:    C#, ASP.NET, Visual Basic, VBA, ASP, COM, Ruby, SQL, PHP4, PHP5, JavaScript, XML, XSL, HTML, CSS Style Sheets, C++, Python, C, Bash Scripting, PERL, ADO, Delphi, F#    Web Frameworks:    .Net: asp.net, mvc.net 5 / 4  Ruby: ruby on rails, sinatra  Python: flask  Javascript: angular, angular.js, knockout.js    Networking:    Windows NT / 2000 / XP Administration, Linux OS Administration