Sr. UI/UX Developer Sr. UI/UX <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI/UX Developer - Amazon Seattle, WA • Around 8+ Years of progressive experience in all the phases of software development life cycle including Design, development and implementation of software applications, with over around 6 years of Web Developing Experience using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery, AJAX, XML and JSON with specializing in modern techniques, best practices and web standards.  • Expert in UI development technologies such as JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, GWT.  • Good understanding of Java, JSP, GWT, AJAX, JQuery Library and plugins.  • Experienced in WEB and GUI development using HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, XSL, CSS3, JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, DOJO, POJO, AJAX, JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) technologies.  • Experience with Design & implementation SOA web services and SOA BPM architecture.  • Experience with ILOG JRules (Business Rules Management System).  • Supporting and implementing of Business Integration for various customers using WBI ICS, WPS and WBI Message Broker technologies.  • Utilizing J2EE components such as EJB, SOA Web Services, JSP and Servlets.  • Designing, developing and testing of various business processes in the financial, public, telecom domains for various customers.  • In depth knowledge of complete Software Development Life Cycle.  • Having very good experience and knowledge on different integration patterns like Publish/Subscribe, Request/Reply, Point to Point, Hub/Spoke, Synchronous/Asynchronous etc.  • Good experiences with UNIX shell scripting.  • Expertise in transforming the business requirement into executable collaboration flow modules.  • Has very good understanding of agile SCRUM methodology.  • Has strong communication and interpersonal skills and is a committed team player.  • Learning Nodejs.  • Desire to learn new technologies and can work under deadlines.  • Proficient with AJAX and manipulating JSON and XML files.  • Experience in developing responsive web design using CSS Media Queries and Bootstrap Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. UI/UX Developer Amazon - Seattle, WA February 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed user interfaces using JSP, JSF frame work with AJAX, Java Script, HTML, DHTML, and CSS.  • Very Strong in developing applications using Angular JS, HTML5, Bootstrap, Java Script, CSS3.  • Maintain and develop Mantis bug management system for internal usage, using MySQL/PHP, Bootstrap, Backbone.js  • Created custom javascript libraries using backbone.js and jQuery.  • Used Node.JS, React.JS, and Backbone.JS MVC framework for developing the Single Page Application (SPA).  • Developed the presentation layer (UI) using JSP, Tag libraries, HTML, Flash, CSS and client validations using JavaScript.  • Used Sencha Touch and EXT JS for the Mobile web interface development. Also used JSON and JQuery for Mobile application development .Worked with HTML 5 and CSS 3.  • Used Apache CXF as the Web Services framework to implement the REST APIs involved.  • Used CVS to maintain source and version management and used Eclipse as IDE.  • Deployed EJB Components on WebLogic  • Led development team using J2EE creating web enabled invoicing system for multiple location service company in NetBeans environment using Git-Hub version control.  • Migrated the code base from Subversion/Clearcase to GIT.  • Responsible for mobile testing, automation, and, lead and management 100% hands on, while leading and managing QA teams. Technologies used - JavaScript, JAVA, JUNIT, JBehave, JMeter, and WebDriver AngularJS - Protractor and Jasmine for E2E testing.  • Developed unit, integration, and end-to-end testing across codebase (Protractor, Jasmine, Karma, Javascript, Istanbul).  • Coaching teams in Scrum roles and Agile techniques.  • Experience in creating build files using Maven.  • Involved in developing web pages with the applications like login, username, password using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and Ajax according to the client requirement for online billing.  • Strong communication, analytical and interpersonal skills working within cross-functional.  • Created a user friendly call centre application based on the client requirement and the consumer basis.  • Involved in developing web pages using HTML5.  Environment: JavaScript,Node.js,Angular.js,bootstrap.js,backbone.js,HTML5,Oracle,PL/SQL,JDBC,Cassandra, Rest, Eclipse, Weblogic, GIT, GITHUB, Protractor, Jasimine, Agile, Mave Sr. UI/UX Developer Bath & Body Works - Boston, MA May 2015 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Extensive experience using framework APIs like Struts, Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  • Implemented Object-relation mapping in the persistence layer using hibernate frame work in conjunction with Spring Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP) functionality.  • Developed forms using HTML and performing client side validations using Java Script.  • Developed static and dynamic Web Pages using JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Developed portions of HTML5-based game for use in an online gambling promotion.  • Co-developed a new tool on the Express nodeJS/backBone.js MVC platform that allows marketers to insert dynamic content in email sends based on location and temporal factors.  • Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server  • Integrated Bootstrap.JS into several applications for speeding up Javascript development.  • Developed user interface by using the React Js, Flux for SPA development.  • Developer mobile site for marketing campaigns by using JQUERY MOBILE, BACKBONE.JS, and latest technologies  • Developed UI screens using YUI, CSS and JQuery.  • Used DOJO for Ajax Support and used JSON for DOM objects  • Wrote complex SQL statements to retrieve data from the DB2 database.  • Developed HQL queries for CRUD.  • Experienced in Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, MS Access and MYSQL databases.  • Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using Spring, MongoDB, Apache CXF, and JAX-RS.  • Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, Sencha, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.Used SOAP Technology for exchanging the XML application using HTTP.  • Developed Web Services to communicate to other modules using XML based SOAP and WSDL protocols  • Used My Eclipse as an IDE for developing the application.  • Extensively used Jquery , IBM Websphere Portal APIs for authentication and personalization features  • Used WSAD for writing code for JSP, Servlets, and Struts.  • Corrected foreign language files and submitted to Tortoise Subversion.  • Worked in Agile environment with active scrum participation.  • Mentored a team of 5 junior to mid-level developers in Java/J2EE Development using UML design documents.  • Developed pom.xml for the build of the application using Maven  • Extensive coding knowledge in developing UI for enterprise web applications using HTML, Java Script , XML, AJAX adhering to enterprise UI Standards  • Analyzed and resolved production system problems tracked with Rational ClearQuest and JIRA.  Environment:  Spring,Hibernate,JavaScript,CSS,HTML5,Node.js,Angular.js,bootstrap.js,ReactJsbackbone.js,Jquery,DB2,CRUD,PL/SQL,MongoDB,soap,Webservices,Eclipse,Websphere Portal,Websphere Studio Application Developer(WSAD),SUBVERSION(SVN),Junit, Jasmine, Scrum, UML, Maven XML,JIRA. Sr. Web Developer Michaels Stores - Austin, TX July 2013 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked on the Spring framework like Spring IOC and Spring DAO.  • Extensive experience using framework APIs like Struts, Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  • Implemented View layer of MVC architecture using JSF components.  • Developed complex Web based UI using Struts, Ajax and Java Script.  • Involved in design, development & testing of business components using EJB Session beans.  • Implemented Ajax with JQuery to refresh results from Ajax page.  • Used JQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  • Integrate the ExtJs/Sencha framework with Oracle BPM.  • MySQL to access data in the database at different Levels.  • Executed data extraction download from Toad & Crystal Reports to create reports needed.Scheduled jobs, Alerts using SQL Server Agent.  • Have worked on DB2 data base for storing and retrieving the application data  • Ocular Coherence Tomography Technician bringing over four years of practical patient care experience with an emphasis on positive patient relationships and high standards of quality.  • Design and Developed using WebService using Apache Axis 2  • Involved in Creation of Flex Families in Content Server and associated the JSP , JSF,J2EE,OOD, JDBC ,JMS,JSTL and XSD, WSDl, XML pages to the assets.  • Developed J2EE components using Netbeans as IDE.  • Responsible for generating build script using ANT that compiles the code, builds a war file and deploys the application on JBOSS server.  • Create and maintain Amazon EC2 instance that supports the companies Redmine project management site and Mercurial CM.  • Maintained and modified triggers for ClearCase using Perl. Experience in writing Shell and Perl scripts for database connectivity and to retrieve data from different sources.  • Involved in creation of automation framework using selenium and testing.  • Worked with SDLC process like water fall model, AGILE methodology.  • Optimized UML design using patterns like DAO, Factory, Service Locator and Business Delegate  • JSP interfaces were developed. Custom tags were used.  • Handled necessary Business logic in Servlets  • Developed pom.xml for the build of the application using Maven.  • Developed Web based Dynamic Form Builder using DHTML, JavaScript Object-to-XML.  • Generated PDF reports using ECF and iText.  • Integrated EMC Documentum with Content Management Interoperability Services (CMIS) for Content Management.  • Executed the test steps defined in Test Cases manually and reporting the bugs in JIRA.  • Core developer of the application infrastructure using GWT/GXT as the front-end architecture using AJAX.  • Core developer of the application infrastructure using GWT/GXT as the front-end architecture using AJAX.  • Implemented complex Row Level Security in the FM and Implemented Cognos Security folders, user groups and roles.  • Developed order receipt report with bar code using lowage iText and jasper report.  Environment:  Spring, Ibatis, Struts, JSF ,EJB ,JQuery ,AJAX , DOJO ,Sencha Ext.JS .,MYSQL,TOAD,SQL Server,DB2,coherence,APACHE AXIS2,WSDL,Neatbeans,Jboss,Mercurial,ClearCase,Selenium,Water fall model, UML ,JSP,SERVLET,ANT,XML,ITEXT,EMC Documentum , GWT(Google Webtoolkit),JIRA , SWING ,Cognos, Jasper Report. Sr. UI developer Costco - Vacaville, CA March 2011 to June 2013 Responsibilities:  • Utilized Angular JS framework to bind HTML template (views) to JavaScript object (models).  • Used Angular JS resource and promises for reliable communicate between server and application  • Used observables in Angular JS to work with Asynchronous calls and subscribe them to get the data  • Developed GUI components and Modules in Javascript.  • Implemented various React components like react-notification, react-menu, react-tabs, react-input, react-layout etc  • Worked closely with UX Design team for implementing wireframes, user flows and prototypes to bring up design ideas.  • Created different modules like services, filters for parsing the data to users in accurate way and directives using AngularJS framework.  • Created Javascript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular JS.  • Involved in daily scrum team meetings by updating the work status of the sprint stories.  • Used AngularJS to structure JavaScript code in an MVC (Model, View, and Controller), Used for installing dependency packages node modules.  • Participated in design sessions, code reviews, bug fixes, organization standards & best practices.  • Interacted with the client for gathering requirements for GUI in the initial phase of the project.  • Used Source Repository Git stash to maintain current and previous builds .Used GIT GUI to check-in and GIT Bash for check-out.  • Extended BOOTSTRAP for UI theme and developed CSS to support Responsive web design.and Implemented responsive Layouts for minimizing load time.  • Integrated REST services with Angular services and tested using REST console.  • Used MongoDB for storing employee details, designing documents and collections.    • Involved in Agile process, monthly Sprints, and daily Scrums A/B testing to discuss the development of the application.  • Worked with the team of architects and back-end developer to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, ReactJS, jQuery, Bootstrap, Grunt, SCSS (SASS), Responsive Design, Windows OS, REST console, MongoDB. UI Developer Gap Inc - Rocklin, CA January 2009 to February 2011 Responsibilities:  • Upgrading existing website with HTML5, BOOTSTRAP, Sass and Grunt build tools and also React.js, Redux, Flex.  • Used React JS in development of the web application to bind the data/model that is being retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope.  • Built reusable and customizable components for the new website using Reactjs and React-Routes to create a single page web application:  • Creating React.js / Flux / Redux front-end UI, and Node.js applications for backend  • Used React JS in components like JSX, creating React components, Used React Native Framework to develop mobile user interfaces which is highly responsive.  • Involved in creating a reusable component using React JS for DOM Manipulation  • Used React.js in development of the web application to bind the data/model that is being retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope.  • Develop various screens for the front end using React Native and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Integrated RESTful APIs with front-end Pages by generating JSON data from MongoDB database.  • Used Axios with react for making AJAX Calls and used AJAX feature and JSON5 to achieve exchanging data with server asynchronously.  • Involved in debugging HTML5, CSS3 and JS code using tools such as Chrome Inspector, Firefox Firebug.  • Handled browser compatibility issues in browsers such as IE, Firefox, and Chrome.  • Used Grunt with Grunt file to minify the js file in whole application.  • Used Github for version control.  • Made use of Scrum team structure and Agile development in the project developing.  • Designed custom marketing assets (email marketing templates and newsletter templates) for each customer's preference based on seasonal promotion.    Environment: JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, JQuery2.2, Bootstrap3, LESS, React.js,React Native NodeJS, Express, MongoDB, AJAX, JSON5, RESTful, Grunt, Git, Scrum, Agile. Education Master of Science in Computer Science University Of Arizona Skills Bootstrap (7 years), Java Script (9 years), jQuery. (7 years), UI (9 years), user interface (9 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    UI Technologies: Angular.js, Backbone.js, Node.js, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS, JQuery, Ajax, Sencha Extjs, Javascript, JSP  Operating Systems: UNIX, AIX, Solaris, Win 95/NT/2000/XP, LINUX  Technologies: J2EE, JDBC, JSF, Servlets, JSP, Java Beans, RMI, EJB, JNDI, JMS, XML, XSL/XSLT, HTML, DHTML, and JavaScript, Hibernate.