Angular Developer Angular <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer New York, NY Senior Sofware Developer with 9-year background in the IT industry. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Angular Developer Rockwell Automation, Inc. - Prague September 2018 to Present Creating single page responsive mobile Front-End applications and packages in TypeScript, JavaScript with Google Angular Framework v.6/7, Angular Material components, RxJS library, in agile environment. Creating animated components with SVG elements. Writing Unit tests and documentation. CI/CD with gitlab tools. Testing with karma + jasmine. PHP Back-End Developer Sirwisa a.s - Prague December 2016 to September 2018 Creating REST API applications and PHP packages for administration  of logging servers with PHP Laravel Framework and AngularJS in agile environment. CI/CD: Jenkins, composer, PHPunit, Selenium, Maven, Java PHP Developer Web Revolution s.r.o - Prague January 2015 to October 2016 Creating packages and modules for e-commerce platform in PHP, refactoring old code, implementation of payment branches, delivery branches, accounting information systems to platform using REST API, XML, SOAP, creating exporting and migration feeds. Web Developer AllSet Computers CZ s.r.o. - Prague March 2010 to December 2014 Creating new e-commerce platform with Nette Framework, fixing bugs in old e-commerce solution.  Graphic design of web pages with Adobe Photoshop, search engine optimization, web marketing, PPC service for customers. Graphic Designer Freelance - Prague October 2007 to March 2010 Graphic design of web pages with Adobe Photoshop, search engine optimization, web marketing, PPC service, web hosting. Graphic Designer Advertising Agency "BUMERANG" - Kryvyi Rih April 2006 to October 2007 Design of printed matter and web pages with Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign Education Retraining courses, study program: XHTML, CSS, PHP, MySQL Institute of Informatics - Prague, CZ September 2009 to March 2010 Master's in Management of organizations Institute of Business Administration - Kryvyi Rih 2002 to 2007 Skills PHP, MYSQL, Javascript, CSS, HTML 5, Git, Angular Framework, Laravel Framework, Nette Framework, SCSS, XML, JSON, PostgreSQL, RxJS, Karma, Jasmine, SVN, Jenkins, PHPunit, Maven, Selenium, Apache, Nginx, Twitter Bootstrap, Angular Material, NPM, JQuery