Sports Writer Sports Writer Gainesville, FL I'm a self-motivated writer who exceeds deadlines with the ability to create in-depth, well-researched content in very little time. I have a passion for many topics, including finance, food, entertainment, history, and technology, and am capable of writing comprehensive content in other verticals, as well. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sports Writer The Gainesville Sun - Gainesville, FL August 2004 to August 2018 Covered sporting events for The Gainesville Sun and it's parent company, The New York Times, that ranged from high school games to high-profile professional sporting events. I coordinated coverage throughout a four-county area and communicated with coaches and athletes to provide coverage. I also performed editing and layout duties in the newspaper's office. Contributing Editor Digital Brands - Gainesville, FL November 2017 to July 2018 Wrote, edited and formatted content for the company's financial websites — CardRates.com and BadCredit.org.    Initiated outreach, scheduled and conducted interviews, and coordinated coverage on many topics in the financial sector. Teacher of Mathematics School Board Of Alachua County - Gainesville, FL August 2010 to October 2017 I taught math and science in a classroom setting to elementary students who were identified as gifted and displayed IQ scores of at least 135 on tests conducted by licensed psychologists. Web Developer CharlotteHoops.com/HornetsWeb.com - Gainesville, FL October 1997 to May 2004 Creator of CharlotteHoops.com and HornetsWeb.com, a website dedicated to the NBA's Charlotte Hornets. I solely ran the operation of designing, coding and building the website, as well as composing multiple pieces of content every day of the year. I ran all promotion of the website from a startup until it averaged more than 3 million monthly unique visitors and was purchased by a larger media entity. Education Bachelor's in Education St. Leo University - Gainesville, FL September 2008 to August 2010 Associate in Journalism University of Florida - Gainesville, FL September 2006 to August 2008 Skills Wordpress, copywriting, content creation, SEO, outreach, interviews, research, Microsoft Office, Google Docs (10+ years), Speaker, Marketing, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Office, Social Media Marketing, SEO Publications CardRates.com https://www.cardrates.com/news/biostar-tb250-btc-pro-advances-crypto-mining/ 2017-11 As one of the hundreds of articles I have composed for CardRates.com, this piece displays a proficient knowledge in technology, Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies. BadCredit.org https://www.badcredit.org/news/ally-bank-offers-one-of-the-top-online-savings-interest-yields/ 2018-02 I have contributed dozens of articles to BadCredit.org, which focuses on topics that help consumers with damaged or new credit profiles increase their savings and improve their credit rating. The Gainesville Sun https://www.gainesville.com/news/20180824/reid-led-raiders-cruise-past-panthers 2018-08 I composed hundreds of feature and news stories for The Gainesville Sun and The New York Times over a seven-year period. Additional Information I have more clips, both fiction and non-fiction, on a variety of topics that are available upon request.