Quality Control Inspector Quality Control Inspector Lea Hill, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Quality Control Inspector Exact Aerospace - Auburn, WA March 2019 to Present Measure and inspect airplane parts for Boeing and Blue Origin. Proficient in Inspection Expert and Net Inspect. Compliance with AS9100D, created forms for audits and made sure all employees were trained prior to being audited. Create bubble drawings for quality inspection. Knowledge of the importance and laws surrounding manufacturing an aircraft. Web Developer Freelance - Seattle, WA February 2010 to Present Create manage and maintain any kind of website using Wordpress, Drupal, and Joomla. Primary CMS knowledge is from Wordpress. I can create my own plugin, theme code in PHP easily. Front end HTML, and CSS of course. I made rentmefee.com and several other sites by myself and maintain them by myself easily. Even wrote several books on how to create your own fully functional vendor shop. Assistant Manager Fighting Cock Tattoo - Tacoma, WA May 2007 to June 2011 Managed a small tattoo shop in Tacoma, opened and closed the shop. Filed the necessary paperwork every year with the state. Accounting and advertising. Cleaning the shop and ordering supplies.  • Oversaw day to day store operations  • Counted cash drawers and coordinated change orders for employees  • Answered questions from clients over the phone, email, and in person  • Ensured individual financial reports aligned with store operations  • Managed store inventory Medical Assistant NORTHWEST UROLOGY - Tacoma, WA June 2004 to July 2007 Assisted physician in patient exams primarily vasectomy's performed blood draws and medication injections. Verified insurance. Data entry, Refiled prescription refill requests. Transported patients to and from the main hospital. Education Associate in Business Technology Bellevue College - Bellevue, WA June 2016 to August 2018 Certificate in Medical Assistant Bryman College-Anaheim - Tacoma, WA January 2003 to February 2004 High school or equivalent in High School Issaquah High School - Snoqualmie, WA July 1996 to May 1999 Skills Quality Control, Quality Inspector, Net Inspect, Inspection Expert, First Article Inspection, AS9100D, Word, PHP, HTML 5, CSS3, Wordpress, Excel, Caliper, Height Gage, Inspection, HTML 5, Blueprint Reading, Javascript, Photoshop, Indesign, Illustrator, MS Access, Woocommerce, CMS, Content Management, Content Development, Author, Technical Writing, Phlebotomy, Vital Signs, Autocad, Management, Medical Terminology, MySQL, PHP MyAdmin, cPanel, Patient Care, Patient Scheduling, Project Management, Powerpoint, Outlook, Business Management, Editing, Customer Service, C++, Graphic Design, Google Analytics, Leadership Development, Account Management, Web Design, Windows, Knowledgebase, Create Social Network, Create Multi-Vendor Shop, Create Classified Ads Website, Create Dating Website, Create Small Business Website, Create Online Store, Create Video Streaming Website, Create Job Listing Website, Website Administration, Micrometer