Freelance Web Developer Freelance <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - JavaScript Lynnwood, WA Driven JavaScript developer with an analytical, business-focused development perspective. Experience with pushing code live consistently and working closely with clients to complete business goals. Desires a challenging, collaborative web development role within a structured development environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance Web Developer FanZappy, Rational Consulting - Seattle, WA September 2018 to Present • Crafted custom CMS websites based on client needs using a combination of custom HTML/CSS, JavaScript, and uploading documents to FTP.  • Responsible for web hosting management, domain name management, and client mail account set up.  • Owned manual testing of design specifications, content, and plug-in functionality.  Code Fellows Teaching Assistant Code Fellows - Seattle, WA May 2016 to Present • Provided one-on-one mentoring to a diverse range of students in JavaScript MEAN stack application development, proper MVC architecture, and automated test creation. JavaScript Developer Explore Consulting - Bellevue, WA June 2016 to May 2018 Installed, maintained, and tested custom digital marketing software installations for 39 unique e-commerce clients, using JavaScript to create custom Google Tag Manager integrations with the SuiteCommerce Advanced Backbone.js analytics API module.    Regularly collaborated with clients and internal staff to create solutions documentation for product feed with automated daily submission, with the largest feed being having 5,000+ products. Responsible for defining data structures, reaching out to client and 3rd party for testing validation, and for discussing solution variables with back end engineers.    Collaborated effectively across departments, disciplines, and teams to achieve business goals. Communicated well with other team members.    Migrated and maintained company WordPress site to a new host. Responsible for making HTML and CSS updates to the site regularly as well as working with marketing team to make updates to various style components. Freelance Web Designer Freelance - Seattle, WA June 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities  • Worked remotely with business owner to rapidly craft custom WordPress pages utilizing various WordPress plugins and themes, typically using PHP, HTML, and CSS.  • Set up websites through domain name acquisition, server set-up and DNS forwarding.  • Responsible for the implementation and functional testing of design specifications, content, and plug-in functionality.   • Worked with client for face-to-face website editing instruction Web Producer eventcore - Seattle, WA August 2015 to October 2015 Responsibilities  • Responsible for creating and testing HTML emails correspondences based on website triggers and building websites based on client approved specifications.  • Used eventcore CMS to edit/update website content and create digital assets. Manually tested website functionality.    Skills Used  HTML / CSS  Bootstrap Education BA in Business Administration - Management Information Systems Western Washington University - Bellingham, WA 2009 to 2014 BA in Business Administration - Management Western Washington University - Bellingham, WA 2014 Skills Node.js (Less than 1 year), Angular.js (Less than 1 year), HTML 5 (3 years), CSS3 (3 years), SQL (1 year), Wordpress (2 years), JavaScript (3 years), PHP (Less than 1 year), Git (2 years), Lamp (Less than 1 year), Mocha (Less than 1 year), Chai (Less than 1 year), JQuery (1 year), Twitter Bootstrap (1 year), Backbone.js (Less than 1 year), Google Analytics (2 years), Google Tag Manager (2 years), Bootstrap, Nodejs, Angular, HTML, HTML5, Front End, Reactjs (1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/profile/view?id=183849995 http://joshuaho.me http://www.codecademy.com/ricecreamdude#completed Certifications/Licenses JavaScript 401 Development Boot Camp March 2016 to Present -Build back-end (server-side) web applications using Node.js and standard developer and server tools in order to build consistent and maintainable REST APIs, using MongoDB as a database.    -Build front-end (client-side) web applications using AngularJS and Webpack in order to create a user interface.    -Understand Computer Science fundamentals in order to differentiate between algorithmic solutions when building applications. Python 401 Development Bootcamp July 2019 to Present Built applications using Python development stack Assessments Attention to Detail — Familiar April 2019 Identifying differences in materials, following instructions, and detecting details among distracting information. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/64ybz-ulcrfambs Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Publications Earth Healer LLC http://www.earthhealerllc.com/ 2016-02-15 -Customer facing webpage used for a client's gardening website. Responsible for implementation of design and content.    -Created in about one week.