Payroll Specialist Payroll Specialist Payroll Specialist - SNC Lavalin-Thermal Power Bothell, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Payroll Specialist Weidner Property Management - Kirkland, WA February 2019 to Present • Process semi- monthly payroll for 12 states in the United State (1400+ employees)  • process and maintenance garnishment payments  • Setup new hire benefits Payroll Specialist SNC Lavalin-Thermal Power - Bothell, WA December 2005 to February 2019 • Process and administration union weekly & bi-weekly payrolls for 6 different SNC_ Lavalin sectors (700+ employees) in the United States.  • Process and monitor garnishment and child support orders and other issues that impact payroll specifications  • Perform compliances for unclaimed property payroll checks  • Maintain and document all payroll reports and records  • Complete Verification of Employment forms Project Management Assistant SNC Lavalin-Thermal Power - Bothell, WA September 2004 to December 2005 • Audit documents from various sources and rout to the Engineering Department for approval.  • Correct Update & Maintain information of drawings within the OCE.  • Transmit documents electronically or send by mail to Field staff, Suppliers and Vendors.  • Update and Assist Director Project Manager to prepare for Monthly Project Report. Web Developer SoftSmart Group - Hayward, CA December 2001 to June 2002 • Analyzing and documenting business requirements. Prototyping the user interfaces  • Designing and implementing web pages, and e-commerce.    SKILLS and QUALIFICATION:  • Proficient with MS Office, Excel,  • Knowledge and experience using Oracle and JDE.  • Self-motivated team player and team builder.  • Very detail oriented and quick study with an ability to rapidly achieve organizational integration.  • Easily assimilate job requirements and aggressively employ new ideas, concepts, methods and technologies.  • Energetic, and loyal. Education Bachelor of Computer Science in Programming in Computer Science California State University - Hayward, CA December 2002 Skills JDE, EXCEL, MS OFFICE, INTEGRATION, TEAM PLAYER, Human Resource, Adp Payroll, ADP