Webmaster - Graphic Designer Webmaster - Graphic Designer Web Developer - Graphic Design - Web Designer - Webmaster Houston, TX Portfolio link: www.KermitLWilliams.com Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Webmaster - Graphic Designer Houston Style Magazine - Houston, TX December 2008 to Present Successfully manage and coordinate graphic and web design projects from concept through completion. Collaborate with clients to create vision, conceive designs, and consistently meet deadlines and requirements. Effectively build social media marketing campaigns, create E-BLAST marketing templates plus motivate, direct, design and work with production teams. Coordinate with freelance designers, consultants and vendors to meet all project requirements.     Key Achievements:  • Successfully created and design 14 HSM front page covers  • Created and design 1 Greensheet front page cover  • Helped to design visual promotions for 2009 and 2010 Essence music festival  • Created a full page ad for the Greensheet of Houston  • JavaScript, HTML5, CSS programmer, PHP, MySQL, SEO, & Graphics Design SIS Multimedia Coordinator Schlumberger - Houston, TX January 2014 to April 2018 Successfully manage and coordinate graphic and web design projects from concept through completion. Developed PHP and HTML5 code to fix bugs from existing websites and implemented enhancements that significantly improved web functionality and speed. Collaborate with clients to create vision, conceive designs, and consistently meet deadlines and requirements. Programed and developed a dynamic, secure Website from scratch that’s visually appealing, user-friendly, GTmetrix performance approved, and fully Search Engine Optimized.     Accomplishments  • Programed and developed the new SIS Training Employee Website into a new state of the art, very user friendly website  • Transformed the standard of Web Based Training to a mobile interactive process    Skills Used  • Photoshop CS3, CS4, CS5, CS6 • Wordpress Website Design  • Adobe Illustrator CS3, CS4, CS5, CS6 • Wordpress Plugin Skinning  • Adobe InDesign CS3, CS4, CS5, CS6 • Microsoft Word  • Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, CS4, CS5, CS6 • Microsoft Entourage  • Adobe Flash CS3, CS4, CS5, CS6 • Microsoft Office  • Adobe After Effects CS3, CS4, CS5, CS6 • Facebook Business Page Skinning  • Adobe Premiere Pro CS3, CS4, CS5, CS6 • Twitter Feed Apps  • Designing of Custom Landing Pages apps  • JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, PHP, MySQL, SEO, JQuery, JSON, APIs, AJAX Web Developer - Graphic Designer Houston Multicultural Health Festival - Houston, TX February 2007 to October 2009 Successfully manage and coordinate graphic and web design projects from concept through completion. Collaborate with clients to create vision, work with sponsors and vendors, and consistently meet deadlines and requirements. Effectively build social media marketing campaigns, motivate, direct, design, and work in production teams. Work with designers, interns, consultants and vendors to meet all project requirements. Design, create and manage an E-BLAST email marketing campaign through constant contact and i-contact.     Key Achievements:t  • Design and create media package and social media marketing campaign for this entire event and for its sponsors   • Helped to create 30 sec commercial using still photoshoped images and edited video interviews   • Designed and Created a full interactive web site for Houston Multicultural Health Festival    To See More examples of the Custom websites I've Designed please feel free to go to my website -  http://KermitLWilliams.com and check out my portfolio    • Photoshop CS2, CS3, CS4, CS5 • Wordpress Website Design  • Adobe Illustrator CS2, CS3, CS4, CS5 • Wordpress Plugin Skinning  • Adobe InDesign CS2, CS3, CS4, CS5 • Microsoft Word  • Adobe Dreamweaver CS2, CS3, CS4, CS5 • Microsoft Entourage  • Adobe Flash CS2, CS3, CS4, CS5 • Microsoft Office  • Adobe After Effects CS2, CS3, CS4, CS5 • Facebook Business Page Skinning  • Adobe Premiere Pro CS3, CS4, CS5 • Twitter Feed Apps  • Creating EBLAST marketing templates • SD - Used for making apple mobile  • Designing of Custom Landing Pages apps Education BA in Computer Science The Art Institute of Houston - Houston, TX 2004 to 2008 Skills Website Design, Wordpress, Graphic Design, Photoshop, HTML, HTML5, CSS programer, Social Media Manager, email e-BLAST Manager, Multimedia Manager, PHP (9 years) Links http://kermitlwilliams.com/ Publications Winning As a Father: The Life of A Single Dad http://stylemagazine.com/news/2013/jun/13/winning-father-life-single-dad/ 2013-06 Kermit is raising his daughter on the same foundation on which he was raised. He relies heavy on wisdom he gained from his own father.