Web Developer / IT Specialist <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> / IT Specialist Web Developer / IT Specialist- Kanex / Kanex Pro Inc Rowland Heights, CA • Professional level skills in implementing and designing ASP.net(C#), ADO.net, HTML, jQuery, VSS, CSS  • Strong experience in application design, analysis, implementation, testing, development, and Maintenance of business applications using N-tier architecture.  • Complete work attitude, problem solving abilities, and outstanding communication skills    Over past years I used to work in a pressure-packed environment with tight deadlines for mid-scale projects. Also I am Highly motivated, detail oriented, and well-organized in working with teammates. If I am facing a problem, there is only one thing I will say to myself, "Never stop finding a better solution". Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer / IT Specialist Kanex / Kanex Pro Inc - Brea, CA May 2012 to Present • Implementing web-based applications for numerous modules using ASP.net (C#, VB). And I was solely responsible for the full life cycle of design and development.  • Writing executable functions that are embedded in or included from HTML pages and interact with the Document Object Model (DOM) of the page, to perform tasks not possible in HTML alone.  • Collaborating development of .net application to organize and analyze tasks, projects, and deadlines. The program additionally stored client information and offered various progress and tracking reports.  • Optimizing content copy and landing pages for SEO based on keywords identified in keyword research.  • Writing user defined functions, stored procedures and views using SQL Server 2008/2012/2016.  • Installing, configuring and supporting both Microsoft and Apple solutions on windows 2008/2012 platform hosting web and database applications, active directory, while maintaining security patches, antivirus updates, backups, monitoring and performing routine server maintenance  • Install and configure ERP applications based on SAP Business One 9.3 PL 13  • Created and enhanced the SAP roles, user Accounts in CUA (Central User Administration) environment, used SCAT for bulk changes in testing system.  • Creating ERP/EDI (True Commerce) B2B system that each business could combine their common needs in a single platform using various technologies.  • Translated business requirements into SAP functional requirements and created Functional Design Specifications  • Reviews existing EDI processes, provides analysis, support and guidance to both internal and external critical customers on complex electronic data transfers covering enrollment, claims, billing statements and payments    Environment: ASP.net (C#, VB), MSSQL Server 2012/2016, MS exchange, SAP Business One V 9.3 PL 13, ERP, Adobe. Web Developer / IT Manager Ritz Tours Inc - Alhambra, CA May 2003 to April 2012 • Implementing practical business solutions that would allow both travelers and travel agents to manage corporate travel profiles via Sabre Web Portal.  • Designing and developing a web based management tool using Asp.net (C#) for our branch offices that provides Meeting planners a time-saving mechanism allowing attendees to register for events while capturing and storing data.  • Preparing and executing unit test plans for every module. The main purpose behind developing this application was to provide an interface that would provide complete profile information our travelers to the booking engine.  • Implementing web service to allow partners to access data via Sabre(TM) interface in a secure, reliable, and responsive manner; typical data set was 10,000 rows and concurrency challenges needed to be overcome at the database and application layers.  • Installing latest versions of Operating Systems on demand, per requirements of the clients.  • Sorting complex issues pertaining to hardware and network failure - Monitored both Hardware and Software systems for errors and updated them regularly to maintain proper functioning and flow of information    Environment: ASP.net 2.0/3.5 (C#, ADO.net), Crystal Reports 10, MSSQL Server 2000/2005, Adobe. Program Analyst / Web Developer Pacific Telecommunication - Los Angeles, CA 1999 to April 2003 • Knowing the requirements of business.  • Primary responsibilities include all Web UI designs and development of company website.  • Preparing analysis, design documents, estimation, for different components and functional modules required by the telecom system.  • Developed new telecom call-back system using Active Server Page.  • Implemented centralized logging and auditing of Windows Event logs utilizing MS SQL server    Environment: Microsoft ASP 2.0/3.0, Java script, IIS, XML, IBM AIX Education Mt. San Antonio College Skills Ms sql server (10+ years), Sql server (8 years), Sql, NET (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), C# (10+ years), Angular, Asp.Net (10+ years), Javascript, JQuery (7 years), sap (7 years), MailChimp (7 years), Exchange Server (7 years), Network Administration (10+ years), Adobe (10+ years), Photoshop (10+ years), EDI (7 years) Certifications/Licenses Adobe Certified Associate Additional Information Technical Skills    • Languages: C#, VB, .net framework 2.0/3.5/4.0/4.7. Ajax, XML, Html 5, jQuery, Angular JS  • Technologies: MS window / Server, MAC OS, SAP Business One, EDI  • Databases: MS SQL Server 2005/2008/2012/2016  • Web Servers: MS IIS 6.0 / 7.0 / 8.0  • Design Tools: MS Visual Studio 2017/2019, MS Visio, Expression Suite, Adobe CC Suite  • Source Control Systems: Visual Source Safe / MS team foundation server, GitHub  • Operating Systems: Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8, 10 server 2003/2012 enterprise.