Junior IT Support Associate / Document Manager Junior IT Support Associate / Document Manager Huntington Beach, CA Work Experience Junior IT Support Associate / Document Manager Strategy 7 Corporation - Newport Beach, CA September 2013 to Present Provide support to Senior IT Specialist on daily basis with computer and network issues. Create and process invoices daily for major companies including IBM and Avnet. Organize purchase orders and ensure timely delivery to vendors. Compile sales reports for senior management. Web Developer / Designer / Social Media Intern CRIVELLO RISTORANTE ITALIANO - Huntington Beach, CA April 2016 to May 2017 Fulfilled multiple duties, including redeveloping and designing restaurant website using CSS, HTML and J Query. Managed all aspects of social media initiatives to support marketing initiatives, advertised promotions, and expanded client base. Web Design Consultant LIGHT LABORATORY INC - Anaheim, CA May 2013 to August 2013 Improved website interface and design by updating HTML and CSS code.  • Successfully launched Amazon Ecommerce store with input throughout entire lifecycle. Help Desk Intern THE DIZZY DAISY - Orange County, CA, US August 2012 to August 2013 Developed retail website to facilitate marketing efforts and increase sales / client base. Created and managed social media presence to communicate with customers on daily basis. Set up, monitored and fixed all technical business issues, including hardware, software and networking. Web Developer IM SYSTEMS GROUP - Rockville, MD July 2009 to July 2012 Developed and maintained websites using Adobe Dreamweaver CS6 on educational servers.  • Created and launched major website for Chapman University, in addition to successfully completing multiple technical projects on Chapman University campus. Manager of Operations BLOCKBUSTER LLC - Springfield, VA April 2007 to July 2009 Directed all store functions, with responsibility for ensuring attainment of company performance targets, and provision of highest levels of customer service. Managed four employees, and recorded inventory and shrinkage of all products each month and input data into database.  • Received promotion to Manager in under five months as result of exemplary performance. Temp Agent ULTIMATE STAFFING - Washington, DC May 2006 to February 2007 Handled complete redesign and improvement of company websites using WordPress, in addition to backing up system files and web pages on internal server. Identified and managed timely and thorough removal of security threats from company network. Verified and processed over 1,000 HR data entries on daily basis for Society of Human Resource Management. Detected and resolved inaccuracies in client profiles.  • Improved efficiency by creating centralized communications through project board and prioritizing tasks for team members. Web Developer RADFORD UNIVERSITY - Radford, VA January 2006 to May 2006 Designed and developed web page portfolio for internet marketing class using Dreamweaver. Worked with other students to provide marketing advice to private corporations, while expanding knowledge of fundamentals and principles of internet marketing. Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Business Administration Radford University - Radford, VA A.S. in General Studies Virginia Community College - Annandale, VA Certificate George Mason University - Fairfax, VA Skills Css, Dreamweaver, Security, Html, Javascript, Php, jquery, Networking, Mysql, Linux, Red hat, Flash, Router, Seo, Photoshop, Adobe photoshop, Wordpress, Microsoft office, Microsoft windows, Windows 10, Mac, Technical Support, Windows