Contract Web Developer Contract <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Dynamic and detail-oriented Web Developer with a flair for creating unique user-friendly solutions effectively and efficiently. Lancaster, PA Dynamic and detail-oriented Web Developer with a flair for creating unique user-friendly solutions effectively and efficiently. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Contract Web Developer Vanguard through InfiniaSearch - Malvern, PA November 2017 to Present • Created documentation template for tracking complex functions across implementations.   • Used JavaScript, jQuery, and CSS to manipulate form fields on a Storefront for better user experience.  • Analyzed contracts and invoices to determine redundant charges, leading to a potential savings of 51% annually.  • Compiling UI/UX analysis of competing brands with a team of associates to make recommendations do specialized teams. Marketing Automation Manager & Developer The YGS Group - York, PA January 2011 to November 2017 • Managed the majority of online storefronts, with a focus on workflow, UX/UI, custom programming, and internal and external billing requirements.  • Created cross-department procedures for connecting the existing rendering system to alternate web services.  • Designed documentation procedures for current deployments and complex projects, including JavaScript and C#.  • Used HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, and CSS knowledge to incorporate Photoshop web designs into a pre-built storefront system. Web-to-Print Coordinator, Variable Project Manager, Associate Mentor AGS Automotive Graphics Systems - White Plains, MD December 2011 to December 2014 • Managed all online ordering sites, including initial development and design.  • Project manager on all outsourced programming to ensure quality work and timely completion.  • Provided additional sales support as-needed for onboarding new clients.  • Assisted with the planning of workflows for incoming projects/programs, and coordinated with billing and invoicing departments to ensure accurate monthly cash flow concerning services.  • Provided feedback and guidance to new associate hires and coordinate monthly assignments design to introduce new hires to the CGX network.  • Utilized the XMPie programming language to produce data-driven production files for print and online email delivery.   • Worked with clients to determine campaign specifications and programming complexity.   • Communicated regularly with department supervisors regarding job status and working on projects according to a designated priority order. CGX LDP Management Associate Westland Printers/S&S Graphics - Laurel, MD June 2008 to December 2011 • Managed and processed all incoming distribution lists through UPS, FedEx, and USPS.   • Created custom dielines, ranging from boxes to cards, for clients such as PBS Video and FLAVORx.   • Managed and programmed CrossMedia (print/email) campaigns for Cox Communications and Westland Printers. Education Bachelor's in Communications (Digital Media & Advertising) Loyola College in Maryland - Baltimore, MD June 2004 to June 2008 Skills Programming, Microsoft Office (10+ years), Pageflex (8 years), Illustrator (9 years), Photoshop (5 years), Indesign (8 years), Xmpie (5 years), HTML (9 years), CSS (9 years), Javascript (8 years), JQuery (7 years), HTML5, Front End Additional Information Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3.0, JavaScript, JQuery UI  Web Debug Tools: Mozilla Firebug (debugger), Chrome developer tools  Versioning: Git, Bitbucket  Other Software: Microsoft Office, Adobe Creative Suite, Pageflex Storefront & Studio, Qlingo, XMPie, and PSI (EFI)