Software QA Engineer Software QA Engineer Software QA Engineer - Apple Millbrae, CA Knowledge in Python and Java with Object Oriented Concepts, data structures and integrated development. Hands on experience in data processing automation and speech recognition using Python. Versatile front-end developer with  experience in designing, developing, and managing complex e-commerce sites and internal frameworks. Work Experience Software QA Engineer Apple - Cupertino, CA January 2018 to Present Using Python and Java to implement and maintain natural language and machine learning workflow that provide best user assistance for all domains and related issues.  ? Developing and maintaining components of website, including check in and checkout page, using React components.  ? Leading development in DevOps and operations processes with China team.  ? Performing query data with Python scripts and web crawler to analyze, monitor and investigate trending words in Taiwan, South Korea, Japan and Hong Kong.  ? Use Python to open, read, sort, compute and write data to CSV files.  ? Adding and updating speech patches to improve speech recognition and support new domains in Mandarin language by the use of internal tools.  ? Training Machine Learning models for Natural Language Processing (NLP) using knowledge of Mandarin language. Web Developer UCSF Medical Center Surgery - San Francisco, CA August 2005 to November 2017 Wrote cross-browser and mobile devices using Node.js, XHTML, CSS & JavaScript and React.  ? Worked with modules like MongoDB and mongoose for database persistence using Node.js.  ? Developed and maintained mobile apps for front and back end functionality of websites using Python and Node.js.  ? Developed desktop applications in Python, which enable sign in and sign out patient specimen and machines.  ? Assisted surgeons during surgeries with instruments setups and passing instruments. Software Developer SWJ Mobile Technology, Tainan - TW August 2003 to July 2005 ? Developed mobile games applications using C++ and Java  ? Developed and managed automated functional and regression test scripts using Perl and ASP.  ? Developed PERL utilities to maintain remote sites for National Monitoring Network Frequency Acquisition Hardware.    OTHER  ? Native speaker in Taiwanese and Mandarin (read and write)  ? Experienced with cross-cultural management: Professional experience with Taiwanese firms  ? Love playing tennis and daily work out in the gym, also enjoy watching ESPN. Education BS in Computer Science in SKILL Cal State East Bay 2002