Technical Analyst Technical Analyst Technical Analyst Atlanta, GA • An IT Professional, offering over 3 years of performance excellence in which 2+ years in Python Development  • Experience with NumPy, SciPy, OpenCV, cv2, Matplotlib, scikit-learn and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Proficient in MySQL and SQL databases with Python.  • Hands-on experience with Database conversions and implementations  • Experienced with version control systems like Git, GitHub to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, Spyder, Studio code, IDLE, NetBeans and Sublime Text  • Well versed with Agile with SCRUM, Waterfall Model and Test-driven Development (TDD) methodologies.  • Excellent interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in a team environment. Work Experience Technical Analyst Tin Roof Software - Atlanta, GA July 2018 to November 2018 • Worked in an Agile environment, attended daily standup meetings and daily defect review meetings with Engineering team.  • Logged defects and software issues into a Bug-tracking tool JIRA and document using confluence.  • Reviewed quality specifications and technical design documents to provide timely and meaningful feedback  • Created detailed, comprehensive and well-structured test plans, test cases and test cycles  • Entered defects into partner's bug-tracking tools.  • Estimated, prioritized, planned and coordinated quality testing activities  • Created test cycles for each set of regressions and smoke testing.  • Created and executed test cases that included: Smoke, Functional, Regression, UAT and end-to-end testing.  • Provided training to the new QA hires.  • Performed QA Testing Applications: Panoramic Wi-Fi  • Technology Stack: Jira Research Project Lead Georgia Tech Brain Lab - Atlanta, GA January 2016 to May 2018 • Worked in an Agile environment, attended weekly meetings  • Led a research project which creates and adapt Brain-Computer Interface (BCI) methods that will allow BCI technologies to effectively control real-world applications.  • Developing a BCI technique to decrease the failure ratio of Deception Detection System - Polygraph  • Developing a system which uses few event-related potentials (ERP), along with continually measuring polygraph test parameters on the subject to target a higher success ratio  • Developing a Python Application to manage visual stimuli, which flickers on the hardware refresh rate to gain attention from the participants.  • Securely Stored and Analyzed healthcare vital information.  • Checked to see if vital information along with SSEVEP data indicates any spikes, which expresses the deception  • Developing Machine Learning Classifiers for the GSR and Bio-Monitoring signals which will correlate with the visual stimuli to help us find patterns that will indicate recognition.  • Technology Stack: Python, SQL, BITalino, openBCI Jr Web Developer Intern Online Media Interactive - Lawrenceville, GA August 2014 to February 2015 • Worked in an Agile environment, attended daily standup meetings  • Worked with a more experienced Engineer to learn about project planning and estimation  • Assembled and programmed interactive websites using WordPress  • Cross-browser compatibility testing  • Developed basic Android/iOS apps via using various platforms.  • Performed QA and Testing on various Applications: OPledgeIT, Franco's Best Pizza  • Technology Stack: HTML, CSS Education Bachelor of Computer Science in Artificial Intelligence Georgia Institute of Technology - Atlanta, GA January 2015 to May 2019 Associates of Computer Science in Computer Science Georgia State University - Atlanta, GA August 2012 to December 2014 Skills .net, C#, Html, Javascript, Python, Mysql, Sql, Css, Java, Time management, Team player, Proposals Links http://LinkedIn.com/in/TalatiA Additional Information Skills  • Technical Writing: Project Proposals, Technical Reports, Thesis Writing  • Programming Languages: Python, MySQL, SQL, Java, C#, .NET, C, HTML, CSS, JavaScript  • Communication: Public Specking (Speech, Presentations, Letters, Proposals)  • Time Management, Schedule Management, Solid Interpersonal Skills, Independent/Solid Team Player, Leadership, Self-Motivation  • Spoken Languages with Business Proficiency: English, Gujarati, Hindi