Director of Web Engineering Director of <span class="hl">Web</span> Engineering Director of Web Engineering - CREDIT ONE BANK Las Vegas, NV Full Stack Developer with 15 years of experience managing the full project life cycle, delivering web-based solutions, optimizing user interfaces, and improving information systems. Drive performance and reliability of company websites, internets, extranets, microsites, and applications. Advanced technical knowledge utilized to administer Tier III application and help desk support, perform software testing and documentation, analyze business processes, and bolster user experiences. Lead cross-functional teams, collaborate with technical personnel, and maintain key relationships with technology vendors. Work Experience Director of Web Engineering CREDIT ONE BANK - Las Vegas, NV October 2017 to Present Manage and collaborate with a team of full-stack web developers and software engineers, including allocating resources, prioritizing projects, and overseeing day-to-day activities. Drive change by executing key online initiatives in tandem with  technical and non-technical personnel. Develop and deliver functional specifications, transform large, complex projects into manageable phases, and perform code reviews. Guide user interface design and engineering (UI) and user experience design  (UX). Deliver frequent reports to management and associated stakeholders on development status. Maintain key relationships  with mission-critical external technology vendors and interface with intra-departmental staff, IT project managers, and developers.  • Exact full project life cycle management from design, development, documentation, testing, and deployment, including  overseeing new requests and delegating technical tasks to developers.  • Manage web production for Adobe Experience Manager (AEM) including collaborative deployment of code and content.  • Improve performance by ensuring code repositories, team workflows, and version control systems are thoroughly utilized, efficiently managed, and effectively functioning.  • Develop innovative web-based solutions for new applicants and 10M+ existing card members, while ensuring user  interfaces reflect design/technology requirements and functionality.  • Analyze and precisely scope project scale and development efforts for additional website processes, features, and functionality in conjunction with project team members. Senior Systems Developer SMART CITY NETWORKS January 2014 to October 2017 Streamline workflow by delivering oversight of a small web team, providing guidance, motivation, constructive feedback, and support. Minimize maintenance requirements by improving processes by significantly enhancing existing websites and  developing new company sponsored websites. Encourage professional development among colleagues by leading in-house  training and seminars on internal software and processes for both web and Windows applications. Educate users by creating and updating documentation, training aids, and online user instructional materials.  • Drive performance, reliability, and functionality via maintenance of intranet, extranet, e-commerce site, payment portal,  four websites, customer-facing microsites, and 20+ custom web-based applications.  • Boost user experience by collaborating on proprietary Windows software application user interface design, new  development, maintenance, and improvement requests.  • Manage advanced and complex issues by provisioning Tier III application support for web and Windows applications by collecting data, isolating and analyzing problems, and providing solutions.  • Facilitate completion of development projects to scope and schedule via implementation of a feasibility study, analysis, wire framing, and statement of work (SOW) documentation policy.  • Designed and managed a project involving the development of an expense reports system, completed two weeks ahead  of schedule.  • Developed and coded an online performance evaluation system for HR, including goal setting and maintenance of an employee list reading data from ADP via CSV file import. Web Design/Interactive Media Adjunct Instructor SMART CITY NETWORKS - Las Vegas, NV April 2014 to July 2017 • Educated students by teaching college-level courses on web design, graphic design, and programming and creating lesson  • plans, rubrics, lectures, and exams. Inspired students to take an interest in subjects by developing engaging and interactive  • projects and assignments based on textbooks and personal experience in the field. Systems Developer SMART CITY NETWORKS December 2006 to January 2014 • Planned, developed, deployed, and maintained new systems for company intranet, extranet, three web sites, and 35+  • microsites. Ensured software met business and technical requirements through software testing and documentation, while administering Tier III help desk support. Delivered end user education by coordinating and conducting training nationwide on  • internal software and processes for both web and Windows applications.  • Slashed bounce rate by 50% via redesign of company website through user experience, interface, and navigation improvements.  • Decreased man hours by an average of 240 on a monthly basis by building applications, automating business processes, and driving efficiency and accuracy. Education Master of Information Systems in Information Systems University of Phoenix Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology University of Phoenix Skills WORDPRESS, ASP, CSS, IIS, ASP.NET, Front End, Javascript, PHP, HTML5, Jquery, Bootstrap, C#, HTML Links https://www.alexandriawagner.com Certifications/Licenses CIW Web Foundations Associate January 2008 to Present Driver's License Additional Information Technical Proficiencies  • Software:  Adobe Creative and Marketing Cloud, Atlassian Jira, Bitbucket, and Confluence, Microsoft Visual Studio, Microsoft IIS, WinDev, eCompanion    • Languages:  HTML, CSS, PHP, JavaScript, Java, ES6, Classic ASP, ASP.Net, MVC, C#, VisualBASIC, VBScript, Transact SQL, WLanguage    • Frameworks:  Foundation, Bootstrap, Node.js, jQuery, Laravel, Vue, React, Angular, AEM, WordPress