Web Developer (Freelance Consultant) <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> (Freelance Consultant) Pawleys Island, SC I'm an accomplished Software Engineer/ Web Developer with many years of experience in all phases of software development, from requirements gathering and analysis to design, development, testing, implementation and support.    I've designed and built a variety of web applications while employed with companies such as IBM, CISCO, AT&T and Lenovo in the Research Triangle Park area leveraging many of today's technologies. I've developed RESTful APIs in PHP and Python for accessing data from MySQL databases in response to Front End application requests. I've worked with diverse local and international teams to design and implement software solutions on the Windows and Linux platforms. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer (Freelance Consultant) Coastal Carolina Web Services, - Pawleys Island, SC 2005 to Present Provide web consulting and development support to clients seeking to establish a presence on the Web. I specialize in the design and development of custom website solutions for personal and business needs. Sites are built using the latest web technologies including DOJO, jQuery, Angular, PHP, HTML4/5, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AJAX and CSS3 utilizing development tools such as Adobe Dreamweaver, Flash, Fireworks, XARA Designer Pro and MySQL DB. consultant Lenovo - Morrisville, NC October 2018 to June 2019 I  was tasked with the design and development of several tools that provide a variety of near real-time metrics charts (using Chart.js) on the test status of hardware systems on the manufacturing floor. I am part of Lenovo's manufacturing test engineering team responsible for developing and maintaining a library of Python scripts used to test all hardware components in Lenovo's standalone and rack mounted systems. More specifically, my job included standing up a new Centos7 MySQL (MariaDB) database, develop (PHP) tools that perform nightly scans of log files to extract and populate data to various SQL tables, develop a UI (Angular 5) application with a JSON interface to a REST API (Python Flask) on the back-end to access these tables and dynamically create various metric charts to analyze and track the efficiency of the hardware test process across 3 worldwide manufacturing sites. This entire project (front-end and back-end) was developed from scratch within a 6 month time-frame.    October 2017 - September 2018. I was part of an international team that worked on the design and development of Lenovo's XClarity ThinkAgile Installer (wizard) virtual appliance. This was a new product used to configure and deploy VMWare components (vCenter, vSAN and vMotion) for Data Center cloud solutions. My team included developers from the US, Brazil, Romania and India. At project conception I was tasked with building a prototype as proof of concept using Angular 5 for the User Interface. A RESTful interface was deployed to communicate with a Python backend using JSON for the data transport. JIRA was used for project management and defect tracking. Daily SCRUM meetings provided project status.    May 2016 - September 2017. I was part of a small team responsible for the design and development of the Lenovo XClarity Integrator UI web application installed as a plugin to the Nutanix Enterprise Systems Management desktop application (PRISM). This application is installed as a virtual appliance MikeClarke226@gmail.com    and provides remote management of Lenovo servers. It interfaces with the Lenovo XClarity System Manager (LXCA) to provide remote management and configuration of your endpoints.    The User Interface was developed using AngularJS (V1) as the Model View Controller (MVC), Twitter Bootstrap for defining widgets and jQuery for event handling. The application used a REST interface to communicate with propriety APIs on the backend for displaying and managing system configuration data. JSON is used for the data transport. Automated testing is done by the tools Karma and Jasmine (unit testing) with Protractor for end to end testing. Grunt is used for the build process and GIT for source control. JIRA is used to define user stories and provide defect tracking. Web Developer (Consultant) Lenovo May 2016 to June 2019 Web Developer (Consultant) Cisco Systems December 2015 to May 2016 Consultant with Cisco System in their Data Analytics group located in Durham, NC. Worked with an international team on a Proof of Concept project with a major oil company in Asia to develop a  monitoring system to automate the detection and alerting of dangerous gas leaks in their refinery.  The system also monitored temperature, pressure and vibration of various machines within the refinery, and as part of a comprehensive solution provided predictive modeling on the performance and maintenance of the machine components. The predictive analytical model employs parStream  database technology to manage huge amounts of information transmitted from sensors on these  machines. Much of this data is consumed by a web application that provided near real-time  statistics on the monitoring and reporting on the safety and maintenance of the refinery  infrastructure.    As technical lead for this project I was responsible for the development of the initial UI mockup while working with the project manager and customer team in Singapore to gather requirements  and translate them into development tasks. Requirements and tasks are tracked using the Rally tool.  I coordinated all requirements with an external development team (DG Logik) contracted to building the UI application. Scrum meeting are held every other day to track and report progress. Customer  demos are done remotely via Webex sessions at the end of each sprint cycle, about 3-4 weeks.  Feedback from the demos are folded back into the next sprint cycle along with new function. Web Developer (Consultant) AT&T August 2015 to December 2015 Consultant with AT&T in the M5 Desktop Integration department providing software development and support for a suite of problem ticket management systems used by their Global Customer Support Centers.    Through acquisitions and mergers AT&T's IT infrastructure evolved into a hybrid of technologies as various applications were loosely integrated into the mainstream process. An effort was underway to develop an integrated platform to present a unified view to the end user but behind the scenes much of the original design/code was still in play, with data sources geographically scattered at various remote locations.    The Web front-end applications were written in jQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS and Ember, and communicated with the backend services through a REST/AJAX interface using JSON and XML as the data transport. The backend applications were written in Perl and PHP with data accessed remotely via SOAP messages and locally via queries to MySQL and Oracle databases. GIT was used for source control and tasks  were managed in an agile-like environment. Software Engineer (Consultant) IBM March 2011 to March 2015 Consultant with IBM System and Technology Group at RTP, North Carolina responsible for the design, development and support of the Chassis Management Module firmware application for the IBM PureFlex System using technologies such as Javascript, PHP, HTML and C in a DOJO framework environment. Software Applications Engineer II SAIC June 2009 to March 2011 Web Architect consultant for the Department of the Navy at the SPAWAR Atlantic Naval base in Charleston, SC. Responsibilities include integration and configuration of various Redhat software products supporting the  Afloat Core Services (ACS) SOA Web Services environment. Also provided software integration and configuration support for various SOA applications for the Department of Defense. This position required Top  Secret / SCI clearance. Sr. Software Engineer IBM January 2006 to February 2009 BladeCenter Chassis Management Development, Blade Server/System Management Firmware, Network Switch Firmware, Embedded / real-time software, SP Developer, UI design, UI development, Web technologies (PHP, CSS, JavaScript, HTML, AJAX, XML), Apache Web Server. Sr. Project Manager IBM August 2003 to December 2005 Project Manager for IBM Global Contact Center Services (GCCS). Coordinated the design and implementation of various IT solutions for the Global Contact Center Services offering across 5 geographically dispersed sites. IT Architect IBM August 2000 to July 2003 Developed infrastructure architectures and IT solutions to enhance the IBM PC Company's ability to more  effectively market IBM products on their website. Presented corporate IT strategy to IBM Business Units to solicit buy-in on implementing of architected solutions. Advisory Programmer IBM January 1990 to December 2000 IBM Global Services - Universal Server Farm (USF). Developed IT support process documents for network management tools used to monitor, alert and manage web servers. Worked with external vendors to evaluate their software tools for possible use in the USF infrastructure. Developed IT solutions for enhancing the monitoring capability of the network nodes in the USF infrastructure.    • IBM Networking Hardware Division - Designed and developed Systems Management applications for Token-Ring and Ethernet hubs and switches. NWays Network Management application suite, C, C++,  Java 2 Platform, SNMP, Netview/6000, ATM Campus Manager (ATMC), Hub Manager (IHMP), AIX, Windows.    • IBM Networking Hardware Division - Developed and supported Network Management software  products to manage and configure IBM TokenRing Network Bridges and IBM software router (RouteXpander). UI Design, Code OS/2 PM and C on Windows and AIX platforms. Education School for Computer Studies - New York, NY 2016 Wake Technical College 1995 to 2003 Diploma in Computer Operations and Techniques in Computer Operations and Techniques University Of Maryland at College Park - College Park, MD 1994 Skills Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Php, Python, Ajax, Css, Dojo, Database, Mysql, jquery Additional Information Technical Proficiency: Website Design and Development using Angular 5, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Dojo,  AJAX, CSS, HTML, PHP, Python, RESTful APIs, MySQL database.    Technical Summary  Languages: C, C++, Java 7 SE  Web Development: HTML, CSS, PHP, Angular/5, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, Dojo 1.10 Framework,  NodeJS, REST / RESTFul APIs  Web Debugging Tools: Komodo, Chrome Inspector  Web Services: JBoss Application Administration (Redhat Enterprise Linux 6)  Development Tools: Dreamweaver, Frontpage, Fireworks, Flash, Xara, Microsoft C++ Debugger, Eclipse  Databases: MySQL, MongoDB, DB2, DL/I  Source Code and Defect Management: JIRA, CMVC, GIT, ClearQuest  Development Methodologies: Agile  Systems: Linux, AIX, Windows, OS/2  Hardware: IBM BladeCenter chassis, IBM PureFlex chassis, IBM Routers and Switches