Frontend Developer & Lead UX Developer Frontend <span class="hl">Developer</span> &amp; Lead UX <span class="hl">Developer</span> Frontend Developer & Lead UX Developer - Propel Toledo, OH I'm a well-rounded frontend developer and designer with a team focused attitude. In addition to my capabilities as a developer and designer, I can bring with me a track record of working successfully with startups, team building, and developing customer relationships. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Frontend Developer & Lead UX Developer Propel - Tel Aviv, IL November 2017 to Present Propel is a startup public relations productivity platform. A CRM to manage the entire media relations process and a powerful insights dashboard. Propel brings effectiveness to PR professionals and oversight to PR managers and executives.    • Development of multiple applications using Angular and React JavaScript frameworks.  • Accountable for the initial beta launch of the Propel product.  • Collaboration with product managers, designers, and QA to deliver usable products exceeding quality expectations.  • Communicate and coordinate effectively with remote team members utilizing Slack, Jira, and Confluence.  • Core contributor to the introduction of user story quality improvements making it easier for developers to better understand feature/function requirements.  • Led efforts to reduce sprints from 2 weeks to 1-week cycles enabling the delivery of user value more frequently.  • Collaboration with frontend development team to implement a strong Model, View, Presenter design pattern. Full-stack Developer & Software Consultant Lakefront Cargo, LLC - Port Clinton, OH April 2018 to June 2019 Lakefront Cargo is a small team that delivers personalized logistic services to small businesses with the knowledge and technology of a large corporation.    As a freelance full-stack development project, the goal was to deliver real-time logistic tracking information to customers while facilitating more efficient management of shipments by the Lakefront Cargo team.    • Implemented a Firebase Real Time database and Google Cloud Functions.  • Ensured successful programmatic integration between the FlightAware API push notifications and Google Cloud Functions allowing for real-time flight notifications.  • Developed the TrackIt application using the Angular JavaScript framework delivering real-time shipping data to LakeFront Cargo customers.  • Implemented continuous integration and continuous deployment pipeline using the Bitbucket CI/CD tool to Google Cloud Functions and Netlify. Co-Founder, Full Stack Developer ActiveMLS - Toledo, OH January 2009 to August 2018 ActiveMLS provided cloud solutions for both real estate brokers and agents and offered a range of services from custom website design to a proprietar administrative CRM that made it easy to manage a real estate brokerage or team.    • Redesigned and developed entire client portfolio to responsive layouts utilizing Bootstrap, jQuery, and Gulp.  • Led team in a complete UI/UX redesign of the administrative CRM to a responsive layout.  • Implemented new mapping features utilizing Google Maps API.  • Converted backend from Python to Node.js and developed a new REST API leveraging Express JS and Sequelize JS. Web Developer & Designer Ohio Cashflow & List'n Sell Realty - Toledo, OH October 2016 to November 2017 Ohio Cashflow and List'n Sell Realty is an Ohio based turnkey real estate investment and brokerage company that operates nationwide.    • Designed and developed multiple portfolio websites including ohiocashflow.com, engelorumora.com, agentscomefirst.com, and numerous single-purpose marketing landing pages.  • Developed a custom static site generator and content management system to facilitate a more streamlined content creation process.  • Implemented continuous integration and continuous deployment pipelines for each website utilizing Bitbucket, Netlify, and Gulp.  • Integrated each portfolio website with automated email campaigns and sales funnels utilizing several APIs including MailChimp and Podio.  • Led the discovery team for the Rogue Platform, an application which automated the onboarding of new real estate agents.  • Designed and developed a full working prototype of the Rogue Platform using using jQuery, HTML, SCSS, and Gulp. Co-Founder, Web Developer & Designer Destination Designs - Port Clinton, OH November 2010 to October 2016 Destination Designs is a web design and development agency focused on building web applications that lead with design and provided a dynamic experience to present small business users with the goal of increased productivity or increased sales.    • Successfully built a design, development and sales team that produced an average of 6 to 8 portfolio websites per month.  • Utilized multiple content management systems to accommodate customers unique needs including, Joomla, Wordpress, Open Cart, Respond CMS, and Gantry CMS.  • Developed automated sales flow and email campaigns for clients using MailChimp.  • Implemented and maintained a cPanel/Linux server environment.  • Facilitated the successful sale of the agency. Skills Firebase, Git, Javascript, Node.js, Typescript, Php, jquery, Html5, Sass, Css, Jira, Mysql Links http://tendesign.us Additional Information Skills    JavaScript TypeScript Node.js PHP HTML5 CSS SASS Angular React    Express Sequelize jQuery Firebase MySQL Google Cloud Git Jira