Information Systems Developer/UI Designer Information Systems <span class="hl">Developer</span>/UI Designer Senior-Level Web Developer & Technical Support Specialist New York, NY A focused web developer and technical support specialist with 10+ years of experience. I  specialize in building websites, installing and configuring hardware as well as troubleshooting  both hardware and software issues. Can quickly identify and resolve technical problems. I work  well within an enterprise environment looking to contribute my skills and experience. Work Experience Information Systems Developer/UI Designer Regenerative Medical Institute - Birmingham, AL January 2017 to Present • Assembled the infrastructure used by Regenerative Medical Institute to run their business.  • Maintain systems by providing firmware, software and hardware updates to all computers.  • Troubleshoot all hardware and software issues timely and effectively.  • Set up and image all computers, as well as troubleshoot any iPhone and iPad related issues.   • Set up Microsoft Exchange Servers as well as designed and developed their current website.  • Studied the customer experience from end to end and developed key changes to improve customer engagement. Increased organic search traffic by 76%. Started an end user usability project focused on updating the sites core UX features with direct report to the CEO. Lead Web Developer The Fresh Committee - New York, NY May 2007 to Present • Co-founded The Fresh Committee, an online digital branding agency for music and fashion that works with creative thinkers across the globe to successfully brand and market their products.  • Modify and manage the site on a daily basis as well as manage marketing advertisements.  • Set up strategic deals, blog outreach, and SEO keyword management.  • Developed a calculated approach to Google Ad Words to create viral marketing strategies that have grown the sites reach to hundreds of thousands of users.  • Work with top entertainment sites such as People Magazine, Entertainment Weekly and Billboard who in turn link back to our articles. Digital Signage Developer Xpodigital - Orlando, FL March 2016 to April 2019 • Coordinated an amazing team of expert designers and coders to create viral marketing ads on ARM- based signage systems.  • Worked with C-level employees to create captivating advertisements and social campaigns.  • Built strong relationships with companies such as Disney, Samsung, Hilton, Sheraton, and Waldorf by creating proprietary signage systems to meet their specific needs. Senior Technical Support Specialist/Trainer Kaplan Test Prep & Admissions - Orlando, FL October 2012 to August 2015 • Lead the technical support team, handled escalations and manager callback requests.  • Trained new hires in Kaplan's Business Systems and protocols.  • Provided hardware and software support by using statistical analysis to identify insights and conclusions from complex data.  • Tier 3 technical support for BAR enrollments as well as medical graduate-level online enrollments. Education M.S. in Computer Science and Information Architecture in Computer Science and Information Architecture Vanderbilt University - Nashville, TN October 2015 to May 2017 B.S. in Communications in Interpersonal Communications and Technology Southern University - Collegedale, TN September 2007 to May 2011 Skills EXCHANGE, HTML, PHP, ANDROID, IOS, UI, UX, Sketch, Wireframe, Wireframes, Wireframing, Photoshop, User Experience, User Interface, Javascript, Adobe Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information • Cisco Certified Network Professional (Routing & Switching)  • Salesforce Certified