Web Production Specialist <span class="hl">Web</span> Production Specialist Web Development Professional Cambridge, MA Highly skilled Web Development Professional with extensive experience and expertise in content development, training, and front-end coding. Collaborated in the publication of over 1300 course websites at MIT. As Project Leader at Harvard Business School, facilitated the creation of a computer / web education program for MBA students and staff, wrote the course materials, and served as instructor. Web design clients have included: Harvard Business School, Louis Boston, Game Theory Society, Kennedy School of Government, Suffolk University Law School, and others. Excellent satisfaction record with coworkers and clients. Key skills include:  • Website Publishing   • Training / Documentation  • Content Development   • Project Management  • Content Management Systems   • Copy Editing / Review  • HTML / CSS   • JavaScript  • Site / Content Accessibility   • QA Testing  • Graphic Editing & Design   • Site Design / Layout Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Production Specialist MIT OpenCourseWare - Cambridge, MA August 2005 to June 2019 • Collaborated in the publication of over 1300 course websites.  • Supported a team of 10-15 with coding, presentation, and copy editing help.  • Reviewed all materials for internal / accessibility compliance.  • Served as primary technical trainer and document writer for the group.  • Planned and executed two site redesigns with team.  • Maintained our CMS (Plone) and provided front-line user assistance.  • Collaborated in the planning and testing of CMS and site feature enhancements.  • Helped guide site usability policy.  • Made regular content updates on the site home and other 'global' pages.  • Converted flat graphic designs into working pages during project planning.  • Acted as point-person for in-house presentation and style standards.  • Collaborated with an offshore consulting team, coordinating active projects.  • Assisted in keeping an Intranet (Drupal) updated and available.  • Played a key role in our CMS migration (from MCMS 2005 to Plone). Freelance Web Developer Self-employed - Cambridge, MA January 1998 to December 2004 Freelance Web Design Consultant  • Client list included Harvard Business School, Louis Boston, AIDS Housing Corporation, Game Theory Society, Kennedy School of Government, Suffolk University Law School, St. Mary's College of California, and others.  • Provided needs analysis, content development, iterative site design / coding, ongoing updates/maintenance, training.  • At Harvard Business School alone, completed more than a dozen sites - from my home office in 1998-2000 and on-site as an internal contractor in the Web Communications Department from 2001-2003. Technical Support Specialist / Project Leader Harvard Business School - Allston, MA February 1997 to October 1999 • As Project Leader: Collaborated in the creation of a computer/ web education program for MBA students and staff; wrote the materials and served as instructor; maintained the department website; helped manage and maintain the student computing labs.  • As Technology Support Specialist: Provided in-person and phone-based desktop support to faculty and staff. Continued my involvement in the computer education program (above). Also created and maintained a new technical support website. Technical Manager Cybersmith - Boston, MA February 1996 to January 1997 Account Executive / Webmaster WRGX-FM 107.1 Radio - Hawthorne, NY May 1995 to July 1996 Education Bachelor's in Management, Specialization in Entreprenuership Pace University - Pleasantville, NY September 1991 to May 1995 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/kevincanavan