Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer Experienced Full Stack Software Engineer San Francisco, CA I am an experienced full stack developer, well versed in a number of back-end and front-end technologies. I have experience with, and an understanding of, all levels of development, from requirements, to design, to development, to testing, to deployment. I bring a positive attitude to all projects and consider myself very easy to work with. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Software Engineer CreativeLive January 2017 to March 2018 • Worked on the Mobile Apps Team fixing bugs and adding new features using Swift on the iOS App.  • Worked on the Growth Team designing and implementing tests for user and ROI growth using a Node backend with Angular front-end. Lead Web/API Engineer Everest - San Francisco, CA March 2012 to September 2014 • Worked closely with the client team to build a REST API on Ruby on Rails to interface with the iPhone application, store all user data, and provide necessary functions for the apps use.  • Built all web application functionality for users to view and edit their data on the web.  • Worked with the design team to build all static web pages used for marketing and customer interaction. Freelance Web Developer Michael Bina Web Development - San Francisco, CA March 2009 to March 2012 • Worked as a front-end developer on the launch of the redesigned Dot429 site, a professional social network for the LGBT community.  • Worked with the ad agency Eleven Inc to build promotional pages for apple.com and the Apple Online Store.  • Redesigned and developed the front end to the new online car reservation system for CityCarShare.  • Designed and developed a number of personal and business websites using custom HTML, CSS, and Javascript, built on top of the WordPress blog engine. Software Engineer Garmin - San Francisco, CA June 2006 to May 2009 • Led a small team on front-end development of Garmin Connect, a high traffic consumer fitness GPS web site built on the JSF framework.  • Built highly interative portable widgets using XHTML, CSS, and the latest AJAX libraries.  • Worked with product managers and designers on defining UI and functional requirements and determining timelines.  • Worked with back-end team on designing public REST API methods and data structures.  • Worked with QA team to identify and fix bugs on all supported browsers (including IE6) and platforms.  • Designed, built, tested, and maintained the Zumo Connect web site with the Struts and Tiles frameworks on top of the MotionBased REST API. Programmer UC Berkeley Residential Computing - Berkeley, CA May 2004 to May 2006 • Responsible for design, development and testing of an incident tracking system for Network Security and Copyright Enforcement teams.  • Fixed bugs in web scripts used by dormitory residents and student employees. Developed with Perl on FreeBSD servers using Apache.  • Developed with Perl on FreeBSD servers using Apache. Test Engineer Intern Apple Computer - Cupertino, CA May 2004 to September 2004 • Wrote cross-platform scripts used to test laptop batteries against competitive products.  • Developed testing methodologies for quality assurance and competitive performance of iPod battery life.  • Developed on and used primarily Mac OS X, but tested on and used Windows and Linux machines. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science & Cognitive Science UC Berkeley - Berkeley, CA August 2001 to May 2005 Skills Javascript Links http://michaelbina.github.io/resume/ https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelbina/