Web Content Specialist/Digital Media Coordinator <span class="hl">Web</span> Content Specialist/Digital Media Coordinator Web Content Specialist/Digital Media Coordinator - Alban CAT Essex, MD I am a graphic & web designer with over twenty years of practical experience in the design and  marketing industry. I specialize in content creation and brand authority which is key to building and  maintaining a strong SEO and ranking. I have strong web standards and I am experienced in the use of  CMS packages and social media management. Work Experience Web Content Specialist/Digital Media Coordinator Alban CAT - Baltimore, MD August 2014 to Present albancat.com sitech-ches.com albanrents.com  • Programs used WordPress Digital Signage Studio Adobe CS6 Constant Contact Spredfast  • Content creation - media/communication website and UX design  • SEO/PPC management  • Email campaigns builder  • Social media coordinator  • Coordinator for digital advertising Production Designer The Dundalk Eagle - Dundalk, MD July 2014 to August 2014 dundalkeagle.com  • Advert and Editorial layout for weekly publication of The Dundalk Eagle newspaper Web & Graphic Design Contractor Aquent Creative Staffing March 2014 to July 2014 aquent.com Heritage Foundation March 2014 to April 2014 - heritage.org  • Programs used SiteCore WordPress Kimbia Paramount Email Lister  • Updating information and implementing content solutions for the Heritage Foundation websites, Web Page Coordinator Baltimore County Government - Towson, MD June 2013 to January 2014 baltimorecountymd.gov  • Programs used Site Executive CMS Adobe Design CS Adobe Acrobat  • Updating information and implementing design solutions for the award-winning Baltimore County  Government websites.  • Managed customer information projects and maintained 508 accessibility compliance for the county  websites through applied web standards, and assisted in PDF accessibility formatting.  • Compiled Monthly Web Analytic reports using Urchin Web Trends Site Improve Google Analytics Web & Graphic Designer Ace Logistics - Middle River, MD June 2012 to June 2013 acesportswear.com acelogisticsonline.com  • Using WordPress ShopSite Pro DecoNetwork CorelDraw  • In the role of Graphic Designer I was responsible for the Graphic Art for branded sports apparel.  • In the role of Web Designer I was responsible for maintaining the Ace company websites.  • Additional responsibilities included maintaining visual ecommerce store elements Webmaster II Maryland Department of Transportation, Maryland Port Administration (MPA) - Baltimore, MD June 2009 to December 2011 marylandports.com cruisemaryland.com  • Using Drupal CMS and PHP code to maintain MPA websites.  • Liaison with the MPA Communication Department.  • Updated timely information and implemented design solutions while being compliant with 508  accessibility demands, and provided coding support to the programming department. Graphic Design & Sales Support Research Solutions, Inc - Millersville, MD August 2004 to June 2009 lenderking.com e-labonline.com  • Positive contribution to the company's growth and sales though web site design, active email  campaigns, quality product photography and restructuring of Research Solutions corporate image.  • Rebuilt the Research Solutions Official Corporate Website and redesigned website from the original text only web page to menu driven interface with content self-generated in house. The  Website at the time of the rebuild acted as a product catalog and had an integrated shopping cart  added using the Yahoo shopping system.  • Managed the content for E-Lab Online, the ecommerce arm of Research Solutions for the Lab  Industry. Of which included actively recruiting vendors, product placement, general  management/store maintenance and fulfillment of orders. Website had a fully integrated  shopping cart system using the Yahoo Merchant interface.  • Other duties performed while in the employment of Research Solutions included: General Office  Manager, Shipping and Receiving Manager and IT Technician. Content Designer Workshop Inc September 2003 to March 2004 In the role of Content Designer I provided content for Games Workshop's monthly publication White  Dwarf. As well as reformatting and design of articles to US standards, and preparing articles for publication to set deadlines. Workshop Inc - Glen Burnie, MD November 1991 to March 2004 USA    More than 12 years of progressively increasing responsibility within the company, starting in the United  Kingdom corporate HQ and finishing in the USA regional HQ. Specific positions held while with Games  Workshop have included (in reverse chronological order) Web Business Developer Workshop Inc November 2002 to March 2003 In the role of Web Business Developer I developed the user interface and managed the content for the Games Workshop Online store at games-workshop.com. Web Content Developer Workshop Inc June 2001 to November 2002 In the role of Web Content Developer I developed brand authority building content and articles for the Games Workshop Online Website at games-workshop.com Production Assistant Workshop Inc June 1997 to June 2000 In the role of Production Assistant I provided content for Games Workshop's monthly publication White  Dwarf. Including reformatting and design of articles to UK standards, preparing articles for publication to set deadlines. Education City & Guilds in Information Technology Leicester ITEC - Leicester 1990 to 1991 Diploma in Graphic Design in Graphic Design Leicester School of Printing, University of Leicester - Leicester 1989 to 1990