Web Developer/ Designer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/ Designer Web Developer/ Designer - HOOKER AND COMPANY Saint Paul, MN Energetic and imaginative web developer and web designer, able to work alongside other  talented IT and graphic designer professionals using web technology tools, coding, excellent  visual aesthetics skills, high awareness of the industry needs and trends; particularly in regards  to accessibility, usability, emerging technologies, and open source CMS in order to create  websites to the very highest standards. Work Experience Web Developer/ Designer HOOKER AND COMPANY 2017 to Present • Design website layouts (website mockups, sitemaps, wireframes).    • Development, theme customizing, updates, and maintenance of WordPress and E-commerce websites using PHP template files,  responsive frameworks such as Bootstrap, and custom coding.    • Development and setup of custom post types, custom fields, plugins  and WordPress themes.    • Utilization of HTML/CSS/Bootstrap development outside of WordPress  for landing pages, microsites and email signatures.    • Utilization of W3C/ADA/SEO guidelines and best practices.    • Creation of website banners and editing of images/logos/website  assets using Adobe graphic tools such as Photoshop, Illustrator and InDesign.    • Ensure cross-browser, cross-platform, and multiple mobile device type  compatibility for all web solutions and perform any necessary  QA/Testing on finished products.  • Migrate and install WordPress sites using cPanel and FTP client  software.    • Manage domain and hosting setup and troubleshooting with vendors  such as LiquidWeb, SiteGround, GoDaddy and Bluehost.    • Project manage website jobs and adhere to designated budget.    • Perform updates and implementation to client site's components such as plugins, modules, extensions, contact forms, homepage sliders, etc.    • Run email marketing campaigns through MailChimp. Freelance Web/Graphic Designer CARLOGIA CREATIONS 2012 to Present Provide web solutions and develop web sites based on specific business  needs for promotions, presentations, customer service and online  services.    • Install and build WordPress websites using PHP template files and themes using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap framework and plugins.    • Install, migrate, maintain and update existing web sites using Cpanel  and FTP client software.    • Ensure all web site development follows W3C web standards and ADA  compliance for accessibility and other good practices for web design and development.    • Create complex graphics and professional designs for a variety of businesses, professionals and individuals, including custom graphics and  logo design.  Software and Hardware Support Tech, Software and Hardware Support Tech YADA SYSTEMS, INC 2008 to 2017 Provided technical support using IT knowledge, excellent  communication, troubleshooting and problem solving skills for all  connection, software/hardware configuration, and outage issues via  telephone in a call center environment.    • Installed, configured and updated software packages and helped  configure hardware set up peripheral equipment.    • Monitored and responded to assigned incident management queues  promptly and documented all research, troubleshooting and resolutions  accurately.    • Setup, configured and troubleshot LAN TCP/IP networking. Education Associate in Graphic Design - Creative Web Design Emphasis Hennepin Technical College - Brooklyn Park, MN 2012 to 2016 Transitioned to Hennepin Technical College in Computer Science University of Minnesota - Minneapolis, MN 2001 to 2004 Business Administration Universidad Privada San Pedro 1993 to 1996 Skills HTML 5 (7 years), CSS3 (7 years), Wordpress (5 years), Web Design (7 years), Web Development (7 years), Graphic Design (7 years), Javascript (Less than 1 year), PHP (Less than 1 year), SEO (Less than 1 year), Illustrator (4 years), Photoshop (7 years), Windows (10+ years), Mac OS X (7 years), FTP (7 years), MailChimp (2 years), SQL (Less than 1 year), Front End, Front-End, UI Links http://carlogia.com