Marketing Coordinator Marketing Coordinator Marketing Coordinator El Paso, TX Work Experience Marketing Coordinator Harris Real Estate Group - El Paso, TX October 2018 to Present In charge of the Marketing department of the company.  Activities i carried out: Web design and development, Graphic Design, Marketing Campaigns, Social media management, Real Estate Promotional, Corporate image, Real Estate photography. Web Designer/ Developer YEMCO - El Paso, TX July 2007 to Present In charge of the creative and developing team of the company. Working in a varied gama of projects such websites and Apps through information design and analysis of the client-product-user. Advertising Manager Zaragoza Corporate February 2012 to November 2018 In charge of the creative processes and advertising of the different companies that make up the corporation.  Activities i carried out: Graphic Design, Advertising Campaigns, Promotional, Corporate image, Storyboarding,  Branding and Marketing. Responsible for a team of designers, creatives and marketers. Teacher Universidad Autónoma de Ciudad Juárez - Mexico, MO January 2003 to June 2016 Teaching several subjects in advanced level, among which stand out:  Multimedia Design, Digital Media, 2D Animation, Basic Graphic Design, Illustration, Contemporary Art. Web & Graphic Designer El Diario News February 2012 to February 2012 Responsible for the design and co-development of multimedia projects, having as main product the "El Diario" website in its first 3 versions, highlighting the interface design and planning of the APP for iPhone and BlackBerry in its first revision. Several outstanding projects: The 2008 Local Election Coverage, Olympics, Soccer World Cup,  Photo Gallery "Tierra de Luz". Education Bachelor's in Graphic Design Universidad Autónoma de Ciudad Juárez - Juarez January 1996 to June 2001 Skills Social Media, Email Marketing, Digital Marketing, Photoshop, Indesign, Adobe, Graphic Design, Typography, Dreamweaver, Print Production, Printing