Quality Assurance Analyst / Web Developer Quality Assurance Analyst / <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Quality Assurance Analyst Massapequa Park, NY A results-driven professional with seven years of progressive experience in technology fields, with five years being in quality assurance. Eager to learn new skills and apply them effectively. Launched and contributed to the company’s documentation using Microsoft Office and Confluence in my most recent position. Seeking a quality assurance role where my organizational, communication, and computer expertise will be of value to the firm. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Quality Assurance Analyst / Web Developer Incentient - Jericho, NY March 2011 to August 2019 Support quality assurance department to ensure products meet company standards. Update web content using HTML, CSS and WordPress. Document company processes and product information using Confluence. Use JIRA software to manage work and guarantee priorities are finished on schedule. My expertise in technology is utilized regularly by the company to solve more complex projects. Was selected on several occasions to research alternative procedures to increase productivity in the Quality Assurance department.    ? Scheduling / Planning: Regularly communicate with all departments to organize and prioritize projects based on deadlines and urgency.    ? Written Communication: Communicate with team members to identify trends, key interests, and concerns to foster accurate business decisions. Disseminate critical project information to technology operatives in Asian office.    ? Word Processing / Documentation: Launched the company's documentation project which saved the company time and money by having information accessible to all stakeholders. Selected to take dictation during department meetings.    ? Windows / Mac OS X: Review web applications in various environments to ensure they function properly.    ? WordPress / HTML / CSS: Edit web content for an assortment of products. Web Content Editor Acuplus Embroidery - Levittown, NY November 2010 to March 2011 Ensure inventory is up to date on the consumer-facing website. Update product information and photos.     ? Data Entry: Input inventory into a database for use on the company’s website. Assistant to Founder / President The Long Island Way - Levittown, NY March 2008 to March 2011 Assist the founder/president with day-to-day tasks as needed such as data entry and expense management. Help prepare materials for events.    ? Expense Management: Organize receipts and credit card statements for the company's business expenses.    ? Data Management: Maintain and update database of company's contacts.    ? Administrative Duties: Prepare marketing materials for networking events. Office Assistant Hofstra University - Hempstead, NY May 2007 to May 2010 Perform daily administrative duties to keep the library office organized and to keep processes running efficiently.    ? Administrative Duties: Basic computer troubleshooting, filing, copying, delivering packages, and organizing payroll time-sheets.    ? HTML: Update content for the library's website as needed. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Hofstra University Skills Quality Assurance (5 years), HTML, CSS, Mac OS X, Microsoft Office, Typing (85 WPM), Wordpress, Documentation, Strategic Planning, Adobe Photoshop, Windows Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ivzgroudwl-0fxtj Spreadsheets with Microsoft Excel — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate’s Microsoft Excel knowledge including common tools, PivotTables, conditional & nested formulas, and custom visuals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jyiyl5xfabnniddq Intermediate Word Processing with Microsoft Word — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of intermediate Microsoft Word techniques including the use of formatting, Track Changes, and Comments. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/yefapyeh8xoye7lk Problem Solving — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vcwxy-idlu2iio2n Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.