Application Developer/ Web site Manager Application <span class="hl">Developer</span>/ <span class="hl">Web</span> site Manager Application Developer/ Web site Manager - TBR SOFTWARE / WEB SOLUTIONS Raleigh, NC Seeking a position in Entry- LevelSoftware Developer that offers growth  potential with an organization where problems and opportunities are well matched to abilities and skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application Developer/ Web site Manager TBR SOFTWARE / WEB SOLUTIONS - Goldsboro, NC March 2000 to Present Developed a windows run internet application programmed in Visual  Basic, ASP.NET for building web pages and web sites with HTML, CSS, JavaScript and server scripting. Contractor/Consultant TBR SOFTWARE / WEB SOLUTIONS - Orangeburg, NY June 2001 to December 2002 Orangeburg, NY  Designed logical and physical data bases and coordinates data base  development as part of project team, applied knowledge of data base  design standards and data base management systems, Reviewed project request  describing data base user needs. Estimated time and cost required to accomplish projects. Determined if project required creating series of  new programs or modifying existing programs that access data stored in data bases. Attended specification meeting with project team workers to  determine scope and limitations of project to better serve wireless subscribers. Web Developer TBR SOFTWARE / WEB SOLUTIONS April 2001 to June 2001 Pratt and Whitney, E. Hartford, Conn  Conceived, designed, wrote HTML code, populating site with content, branding, marketing, supported and managed Military Customer  Support website. Performed server migrations, download  times, trouble shooted site crashes. Determined which  hardware that the site should use and the software necessary to make it  function properly, the design and navigation that will get the customer use the site in a way, That will support the company's marketing  plans and the information, That would keep User returning back to site also set up reporting tools and Databases to record traffic to the site. Created the back end and ensured the content supported the site's business objectives Software Q & A Tester TBR SOFTWARE / WEB SOLUTIONS - Woodcliff Lake, NJ March 2000 to April 2001 maintained test automation for new software to determine Compatibility with existing  version of software to be distributed to field auditors across the U.S. Application Developer Aquarian Films/ Home Video Corporation - Nyack, NY January 1994 to March 1999 Converted paper files and documents to Microsoft Access format to be  utilized, shared throughout company and viewed on the internet.  Established a Visual Basic windows application to track and monitor the  Company's film library, gross and net sales, cost expenditures. Created and delivered multimedia presentations on various computer solutions.  Assisted in design of company Web site. Designed pages utilizing  Numerous programming languages Visual Basic, C++, Java, Graphics  programs and sound applications. Designed and Implemented databases to represent inventory data to assist in Management decisions. Multimedia  presentations on various computer Solutions. Assisted in design of company Web site. Designed pages utilizing numerous programming  languages Visual Basic, C++, Java, SQL, CSS, XML, HTML, J2EE Graphics  programs and sound applications. Designed and implemented databases to represent inventory data to assist in management decisions. Education Associate in Systems Management Westchester Business Institute - White Plains, NY March 2001 Additional Information Skills  C, C++, Visual Basic, JAVA, J2EE, HTML5, XML, SQL, CSS, ASP, Mircosoft,Windows 8,  Microsoft office