Lead Android Developer Lead Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Android Developer - Cricket Wireless Topeka, KS • Continuously research, test, and implement new techniques, frameworks, and utilities, and apply to Android development.  • Strive to improve and learn on each project and stay current with changing trends and developments in the technology.  • Experience using GIT/GitHub for Source Control.  • Experience with Android SDK versions 5 and above.  • Good knowledge OS fundamentals with the ability to apply it in the context of modern operating systems (Linux, OS X, Windows Server 2008/2012).  • Strong understanding of the Android framework, best practices, and design patterns.  • Ability to contribute to design, architecture and technical strategy.  • Experience with Android performance tuning and crash reporting applications.  • Experience with web related technologies, including JavaScript, HTML 4/5, AJAX, JSON, XML.  • A firm understanding of building mobile applications that utilize web services (REST, HTTP-based, XML, SOAP, JSON or other services).  • Ability to ask the right questions, provide feedback to stakeholders, break down tasks, and create a plan to achieve the intended result.  • Able to optimize the technical architecture and technical debt of the Android app.  • Created logins, embedded tweets using the Twitter API.  • Passionate about best Android design and general UI/UX best practices.  • In Android skilled with implementing fragments, diverse layouts, animations, Material Design, Compound Views and Custom Views.  • Strong knowledge in Android multithreading frameworks: AsyncTaks, IntentServices, Handlers, Threads, Runnables, Loopers.  • Principles, handlers, and Java threading to match the provided specifications and needs of the Android project.  • Applies Google's best practices targeted to mobile environments: use of networking, memory management, battery status, responsive and intuitive design, managing multiple screen sizes, identifying app installations, internationalization.  • Pro-active fast learner, self-motivated, proficient in programming logic and easily adaptable to new technologies.  • Managed the implementation of dependency injection in Android with Dagger to speed up the unit testing process.  • Performed Espresso, JUnit, Mockito and simulated design patterns in Android to test and develop applications.  • Designed the schema for and deployed SQL and MySQL servers.  • Self-motivated, always enjoying a good challenge and thriving under pressure.  • Created the initial setup of multiple continuous integration servers to help the build creation process (Travis, Jenkins, Circle-CI).  • Use of multiple MBaaS (Mobile Backend as a service) and cloud integration tools like Parse, Firebase, Google Cloud Services, Amazon Web Services.  • Able to architect the creation and the consumption of Web Services targeted to be used by millions in Android.  • Participated in all phases of the Android development life cycle (Planning, Analysis, Design, Develop, Documentation, Test, Deployment, Hypercare)  • Exceptional communication, project management, and organizational skills with the ability to build positive relationships with boards and stakeholders, senior executives, all levels of staff, and clients. Work Experience Lead Android Developer Cricket Wireless - Atlanta, GA July 2018 to Present • Managing team of 6 developersin in a multicultural environment with both on-site and off-shore to fulfill the requirements  • Mentored junior developers on the software development process and facilitated peer programming and code reviews.  • Conducted sprint planning meetings, daily scrum meetings, sprint review, sprint retrospective and backlog meeting with my team  • Developing new features in the latest Kotlin version with Java 8 lambdas  • Creating DSL for entities in Kotlin  • Creating custom views based on given requirements  • Change views based off real time responses from user  • Updated to Rxjava2 which was used to handle background computations  • Used Event Bus to pass information between several elements within the project  • Creating payment flow that allows the user to utilize a cart system while managing their phone linesIn-app rating system  • Unit testing using Power Mockito, Test Builds using Jenkins  • Create API services for authentication and for users' preferences for fingerprint login  • Added selectors and animation effects on UI/UX elements to enhance the User Experience  • Agile and lean development process, cross-team collaboration Senior Android Architect/ Developer Rand McNally - Skokie, IL March 2016 to June 2018 • Built the iviBridge and complimentary media player app using Android Studio.  • Managed continuous integration using git and remote repositories on BitBucket.  • Utilized broadcast receivers to send data and commands between applications.  • Used EventBus to pass information between Classes at key points in specific processes.  • Used Flatbuffers and GSON to serialize information passed along a network, two different serialization implementations to allow for adaptability in responding to changing requirements.  • Used AndroidAsync library to implement network communication structure that features two way communication between the client and server.  • Converted legacy Java code to Kotlin, and added helper methods using Kotlin extensions  • Programmatically injected captured touch events from another device using MotionEvents, plain sockets and Java Reflection to access private Android libraries.  • Created a stand-alone foreground sticky service that sends and receives broadcasts, messages across plain network sockets, accesses shared preferences and SQLite databases.  • Use of SQLite database schema to persistent data storage for every schedule  • Participated on the RESTful API definitions for the app.  • Created several activities to act as a test server for sending commands to the client device and displaying the data retrieved.  • Created JIRA issues and assigned them to other developers.  • Implemented a custom network protocol that features a specific byte combination structure that allows for effective communication between an Android client device and a Linux server.  • Developed a complimentary media player application that plays back audio and video files based on incoming and outgoing broadcasts. Also sends metadata about files in play.  • Utilized multithreading and asynchronous tasks to manage communication between devices and multiple applications simultaneously.  • Utilized ADB to access rooted device permissions and manage APK installation.  • Held stand up meetings and worked with external team developing dashboard and server functionality for hardware integration.  • Troubleshot integration with other team's hardware through Windows command prompt and executable files that mock server functionality.  • Corresponded with various managers/stakeholders through email written communication.  • Supported team member through paired programming and use of white board concept diagrams.  • Completed and provided all deliverables according to schedule, sometimes ahead.  • Provided successful demos of the application's features to higher management on many occasions. Senior Android Developer Orbitz - Chicago, IL January 2014 to March 2016 • Used RESTful to communicate with web services and replaced old third-party libraries with more modern and attractive ones.  • Collaborated with external teams on modification and improvements to the Android app.  • Development of quality code using cutting-edge techniques, tools, and utilities for Android.  • Refactored code, updated features, and functionality using Android Studio.  • Used RxJava for all web service requests to the Android app.  • Actively worked with the back-end team to improve the RESTful API to include new features for the Android app.  • Helped transition the Android app from MVC to MVP, to achieve a complete separation of concerns, better code reuse, simpler code reuse and a higher percentage of unit tests.  • Contributed to the Android project product documentation.  • Performed regular Android team code reviews to ensure overall code quality and adherence to company coding standards and industry best practices.  • Use of SQLite database schema to persistent data storage for every schedule  • Participated on the RESTful API definitions for the app. Senior Android Mobile Developer HSBC Mobile Banking - New York, NY September 2011 to December 2013 • Implemented a WebView to render HTML content from various websites to the Android application interface view.  • Performed code reviews to ensure compliance with coding standards and proper use of OOP concepts in the development of the Android app.  • Guided the Android testing team in creating small testing suites with JUnit and the Eclipse IDE capabilities.  • Configured private GitHub as a code repository for the Android development team.  • Added Selectors and Animation effects on Android UI/UX elements to create a dynamic user experience (UX)  • Used continuous integration tools like Jenkins or Travis CI and automated testing frameworks such as Espresso.  • Scheduled daily SCRUM meeting and documented tasks for follow-up with Android team members.  • Kept Android team on deadline on each Sprint.  • Utilized Android and third-party frameworks to use the multithreading capabilities of the physical devices: AsyncTasks, IntentServices, Handlers, Threads, RXJava instances.  • Made use of Activities and Activities for Result and the RecyclerView to get a better performance of the Android application.  • Implemented some animation and transitions from activities to improve User Experience (UX).  • Participated on the data modeling upgrade on the device side and the server side.  • Helped team members to translate designs and wireframes into high-quality views and code.    Zoho Invoice & Time Tracking Android Mobile Software Engineer Zoho Corporation - Pleasanton, CA June 2009 to August 2011 • Worked with GSON and Jackson library to parse JSON files on the Android project.  • Managed code review sessions to always have high quality (reusable, simple, documented) code.  • Supervised development of the Android app by the team and lead requirements definition, design, and reviews of the Android team.  • Included Retrofit to make asynchronous HTTP requests.  • Use of services to run Java classes for the back work.  • Responsible for the requirement gathering for the Android application.  • Used the Dalvik Debug Monitor Server (DDMS) for debugging and testing.  • Ensured backward compatibility by using Android support libraries.  • Implemented messaging with Android Push Notifications and GCM (Google Cloud Messaging).  • Guided team in the implementation of Android design patterns (MVC, MVP, MVVM).  • Analyzed and defined development hours for requirements split into user stories of UX/UI design.  • Established the use of instance handlers for Java threading separated from the user's interface thread. Junior Android Mobile App Developer Sears App - Hoffman Estates, IL March 2007 to May 2009 • Used Eclipse as the primary IDE since it includes all the tools needed to develop, test and deploy the Android application.  • Refactored code using Eclipse IDE, to make the code more compact, reusable and improve performance.  • Parsed JSON files to obtain data returned from web services.  • Implemented Android design patterns such as MVC, MVP, MVVM, Observer, Proxy, Interpreter, and Singleton.  • Use of GIT for the source control management on the Android project. Configured a GitHub for the Android project team.  • Enhanced the UI/UX with expertise of well-designed UX/UI and by adding custom views and compound views.  • Used JIRA as the issue tracking tool on this Android app project.  • Employed unit-test code for robustness, including edge cases, usability on the app project.  • Collaborated with web design and development team to develop an Android app that interacts smoothly with web content and web services.  • Used YouTube Android Player API to incorporate videos into the Android app.  • Worked in a team of four developers, one UI/UX front end designer, and one back-end developer.  • Consumed the RESTful Web Services using HttpURLConnection.  • Tested the Android app, creating small testing suites with JUnit and the Eclipse IDE capabilities.  • Handled Fragment data retention to ensure data integrity in Android on-screen rotation with the onSaveInstanceState and onRestoreInstanceState methods. Web Developer The Dream Catcher Network - Atlanta, GA February 2006 to February 2007 * Implemented page layouts in HTML following wireframes.  * Coded website functionality in HTML, CSS, with interactivity in JavaScript.  * Worked with jQuery to implement libraries in CMS.  * Developed WordPress sites and customized look and feel using templates.  * Troubleshot back-end communication problems with SQL server.  * Configured backup and restore systems, and managed SSL.  * Joined client meetings to learn about development of project scopes.  * Contacted clients to obtain more information and discuss design options.  * Oversaw scheduling of project milestones and coordinated with clients on any proposed changes or challenges to be overcome.  * Specialized in medical and legal websites.  * Actively sought tough projects to develop programming and service skills. Skills Android, Design patterns, Mvc, Mvp, Mvvm, Bootstrap, Firebase, Html5, Sass, Soap, Android studio, C#, Git, Gradle, Javascript, Jenkins, Json, Php, Ruby, Svn Additional Information Technical Skills  Languages  Kotlin, Java, SQL, C#, HTML5, CSS, XML, JavaScript/JQuery/Angular, PHP, Ruby, Sass/SCSS, Bootstrap    Database  Firebase, SQLite, SQL, MySQL, MongoDB    Development Environment  Git, GitHub, SVN, Jenkins, Hudson, Travis CI, JIRA, Confluence, Maven, Gradle, LeakCanary, Slack, Kanban    Architecture/Design Patterns  MVC, MVP, MVVM, Abstract Factory, Builder, Decorator, Façade, Proxy, Visitor, Strategy, interpreter, Command    Android Development  Android OS, Dependency Injection, GcmNetworkManager, Push Notifications, JUnit, Retrofit, EventBus, Otto, SSL, Mixpanel, Mockito, Material Dialogs, Google Places, AsyncTask, Glide, ProGuard, Bluetooth Low Energy, ButterKnife, Services, Google Analytics, Volley, RecyclerView Animator, Spork, Libphonenumber, XmlPullParser, GSON, CoordinatorLayout, Multi-Window, GitHub, SOAP, Volley, JobScheduler, Content Providers, Parceler, SQLCipher, ZXing, Cipher, Maven, Dagger, MVC, RxJava, Facebook SDK, Google Custom Search, Gradle, FloatingActionButton, Jackson, Google Cloud Messaging, Picasso, , Material Design, Android-Job, ORMLite, Logger, Handlers, Android Studio, Doze Mode, VideoView, Espresso, Parse, Animations, Loaders, Fresco    Project Management & Leadership  Agile Scrum  Scrum Master, Team Lead, Mentor  Project Planning  Managing dependencies, Gathering Requirements, External teams, and Managing project tasks, backlog.    Misc Development  Back-end development, web development, back-end integration (JSON, GSON, REST, SOAP, XML), SSH, LAMP, MEAN, CMS    Wesley Grzywacz