Freelance Writer Freelance Writer Content Creator Bay Shore, NY Highly proficient multimedia specialist with a diverse range of visual design and content creation skills including digital photography, photo editing, blog writing, web design, graphic design and social media management.  http://www.heartsandcrafty.com/published-articles/ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance Writer Edible Long Island December 2017 to Present Freelance Writer | https://www.ediblelongisland.com/author/danieleanderson/  Edible Long Island & Edible East End, Long Island, NY  Write original articles for Edible websites.  Create and photograph food content. Outreach & Social Media Specialist Hearts & Crafty Design June 2016 to Present www.heartsandcrafty.com  Long Island Parent Center  Manage and curate relevant content for Twitter and FaceBook    Early Childhood Direction Center  Update website in Wordpress  Manage and curate relevant content for Twitter and Facebook Co-Owner & Writer We Know Stuff - Bay Shore, NY June 2010 to Present www.weknowstuff.us.com  Best of Long Island Blog Winner 2014 & 2016  Write, edit and proofread content.  Manage staff of Contributing Writers.  Color correct and edit all photography.  Manage content for Facebook, Instagram and Pinterest. Senior Designer K. Van Bourgondien & Sons - West Babylon, NY December 2004 to July 2006 Direct web design and development for company retail and wholesale sites.  Design, code and track all company email newsletters and banner ads.  Train and supervise e-commerce and web design teams.  Direct and manage relations with external technology vendors. Web Developer Computer Associates - Islandia, NY December 2003 to December 2004 Responsible for web development for public sites and intranet sites.  Manage content while jointly developing hierarchies for customers, employees and shareholders.  Maintain business ownerships and develop relationships to ensure quality and integrity of Computer Associates websites. Web Designer Nikon USA - Melville, NY May 2001 to November 2003 Responsible for all web design and development of company web sites  Develop and execute concepts for html email campaigns.  Manage and train web design assistant. Education BT Visual Communications Farmingdale State College - Farmingdale, NY May 2003 Skills GRAPHIC DESIGN (10+ years), WEB DESIGN (4 years), VISUAL DESIGN (10+ years), CONTENT CREATION (7 years), Twitter (5 years), Facebook (2 years), Social Media (5 years), Web Content (7 years), Social Media Marketing Links http://www.heartsandcrafty.com Additional Information Skills Profile  Highly proficient multimedia specialist with a diverse range of visual design and content creation skills including digital photography, photo editing, blog writing, web design, graphic design and social media management.    Portfolio