Senior UI/UX Designer | 19 years exp Senior UI/UX Designer | 19 years exp Senior UI/UX Designer Dallas, TX Portfolio: www.RazorX.io    Professional Summary  -------------------------------  Senior UI/UX Designer with 19 years of experience in graphic design, design systems, programming, and client management. Motivated and driven to push progressive styles in mobile-first interface design, responsive prototyping, user interaction flows, style guides, meaningful typography, balanced layouts, and clear usability. Extensive experience in programming also provides code-level collaboration and seamless design integration for development teams. Business competencies include meeting presentations and demos, written proposals, project management, and client administration with a professional and formal presentation.    Graphic Design  ----------------------------  MOBILE / DESKTOP / UI / UX  Photoshop and Illustrator used heavily since 1999 for all design comps and interfaces. In-depth experience in Adobe Creative Suite. Photoshop and Illustrator used for initial sketches, mock-ups, and final design assets. Adobe XD and InVision used in developing low and high fidelity UI and UX prototypes using guidelines from Google MDG and Apple HIG. A natural eye for efficient layouts, color schemes, and supportive typography. All design assets developed on a color calibrated Eizo monitor for color accuracy across all target devices.    VIDEO / MOTION / SOUND DESIGN  Advanced video editing abilities and color grading in Premiere Pro and Davinci Resolve. Experienced in a wide range of video codecs for ingest and export. Motion graphics in After Effects with working experience in Red Giant plugins. Currently transitioning video, audio, and motion graphics workflow over to Davinci Resolve. Able to modify existing audio and create original audio using Ableton Live and Bitwig. Experienced in using VST collections from Heavyocity, Native Instruments, iZotope, EastWest, and 8Dio.    Programming  -----------------------------  FRONT-END  Started hand-coding HTML in 1999. Began using Dreamweaver in 2000. Proficient in HTML5, CSS3, Sass, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, GSAP-JS, and Bootstrap. Currently transitioning to Native CSS Grid over traditional frameworks. Code development in Atom, Dreamweaver, and Webflow. Responsive mobile and tablet testing with Vanamco GhostLab using a DeviceLab phone rack. MAMP Pro used for local development. Extensive experience in working with Apache/Linux/Plesk dedicated servers.    BACK-END  PHP development since 2002 for most applications and forms. Experience with PHP5 and PHP7.  Extensive database experience in MySQL. Ability to work with complex SQL statements. Experienced in PHP driver extensions: mysql, mysqli, and pdo. Extensive use of SQL Maestro PHP Generator for custom CMS interfaces and database-driven applications. Database GUIs used: SQL Maestro and DBForge Studio.    Flash / AS  Developed with Flash ActionScript 2 and 3 from 2000 until 2011. Used TweenLite/Max, SWFAddress, and several Flash components. Created twelve animated and fully interactive Flash websites before the Apple axe of 2010.    ... Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior UI/UX Designer | 19 years exp Freelance Designer and Developer 2008 to Present Responsibilities: Create custom programming, databases, and unique UI/UX design solutions for corporate clients.  Accomplishments:   • Designed and coded the official Lana’i Hawaii website for Larry Ellison of Oracle.   • Developed large-scale database and interfaces for Hallmark Cards Greetings department.   • Used Flash to create a touch-interactive 9ft x 12ft wall installation for Florida Bulls NCAA basketball.   • Made Change Agents, a typically boring government support agency, look hip, cool, and engaging.   • Designed a progressive travel web site for GenXRewards with PHP/MySQL data-driven content.   • Created and maintained High Voltage website. Creators of Mortal Kombat X, Saints Row and more. Senior Web Developer and Designer TIME WARNER, INC. - TEXAS 2003 to 2006 Time Warner is the multimedia leader in TV entertainment, movies, cable systems, and broadband.  Responsibilities: Build, administrate, and maintain company web sites, Intranet, and Oracle databases.  Accomplishments:  • Programmed forms and back-end for Digital Phone app. in JSP/Tomcat and Oracle 9i database.  • Created interfaces for Time Warner Cable's exclusive online bill payment system entitled PayXpress.  • Programmed and designed six Flash/ActionScript sites for Road Runner Business Class.  • Created HBO, Showtime, and Pay-Per-View graphic assets for the Marketing department.  • Maintained ten full scale web sites for Time Warner Cable.  • Designed forms, graphics and process flow for an AOL/ Road Runner CSR interface. Web Developer | UI Designer VNU, INC - TEXAS 2000 to 2002 VNU Nielsen was the international owner of Billboard magazine and other major magazine publications.  Responsibilities: Build, administrate, and maintain company relational databases.  Accomplishments:  • Developed user interfaces, online registration applications, and databases using Perl 5 and MySQL. Education Associate's Certificate in Drafting and Mechanical Design - AutoCAD Tulsa Junior College - Tulsa, OK Skills Ableton Live (Less than 1 year), Adobe Master and Creative Suite (10+ years), After Effects (5 years), AutoCAD (6 years), Bitwig (Less than 1 year), CSS (10+ years), CSS Grid (Less than 1 year), DaVinci Resolve (1 year), Flash and Actionscript (10+ years), Graphic Design (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), Illustrator (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), MySQL (10+ years), Photoshop (10+ years), PHP (10+ years), Premiere Pro (5 years), Webflow (1 year), UI/UX (10+ years) Links http://www.RazorX.io Awards 2006 Time Warner Web Developer of the year for corporate think tank. 2005 Time Warner Web Developer of the year in application development. 2005 Time Warner of Texas employee of the year; all expenses paid trip to Puerto Rico. Certifications/Licenses 2019 Certificate: UX/UI Designer certified from the Interaction Design Foundation. 2003 Certificate: Macromedia certified in Flash MX ActionScript. 2002 Certificate: Oracle DBA, from Techno Edge. 2000 Certificate: Macromedia certified in Advanced Flash and Dreamweaver. 1999 Certificate: Quark, Photoshop, Advanced HTML. Groups Missouri Western State University - Computer Science Department October 2017 to April 2018 Delivered three separate lectures to the Computer Science Department students on Web Development, Kendo UI Framework, and Professional Character and Conduct. Additional Information Some notable companies I've had the pleasure of working with.    • Larry Ellison of Oracle - Lanai, Hawaii  • Hallmark Cards - Kansas City, Missouri  • Time Warner Cable - Texas Headquarters  • USF Bulls NCAA basketball team - Tampa, Flordia  • High Voltage Software - Hoffman Estates, Illinois  • America Online - New York City, New York  • Performance Contracting Group - Lenexa, Kansas  • Aero Charter Private Jets - St. Louis, Missouri