Freelance Freelance Web Developer Laguna Niguel, CA Hello, my name is Matt. I am Web Developer living in Laguna Niguel CA. I have 18 years of experience designing and building websites and interactive projects. The past year has been spent working on a freelance basis, and before that I spent 9 years on an award-winning team of developers at Newsday.com. I design and build responsive websites and interactive applications. I have experience working on a variety of interactive platforms for desktop, mobile and television display. I have worked in a variety of different environments from large corporations to small boutique advertising agencies. I have excelled at delivering robust website projects under strict deadlines. I enjoy the pace and energy of a creative work environment and enjoy collaborating with co-workers and clients. Work Experience Freelance Matt Hogeboom January 2018 to Present Branding, Logo Design and Website Development. Leveraged Wordpress and custom HTML/CSS for client web solutions. Search engine optimization and enhancing and upgrading existing systems. Senior Designer Newsday LLC - Melville, NY September 2008 to December 2017 Worked with award-winning team of developers on web projects as well as mobile apps. Design and developed web and mobile applications, managed projects and coordinated with department teams to deliver projects accurately and on schedule. Managed third-party applications, site troubleshooting and ensuring cross browser compatibility for high-traffic news industry. Web Developer Zero Gravity - Smithtown, NY December 2007 to August 2008 Designed and managed projects from concept through completion. Managed Flash enhanced websites. Designed and developed dynamic websites using HTML, CSS, AJAX, jQuery and PHP. Coordinated with clients on web content and website management with MODX.  Senior Designer LKGS Interactive - Hauppauge, NY 2004 to December 2007 Brand development. Logo, print and website design. Dynamic data-driven website development and email campaigns using HTML, PHP and FLASH. Created and managed web projects with remote staff from conception through completion.  Education Associate Skills CSS (10+ years), HTML5 (8 years), jQuery (10+ years), Maintenance (10+ years), Optimization (10+ years), SASS (3 years), Search engine (10+ years), Search Engine Optimization (10+ years), UI Design (10+ years), USER INTERFACE (10+ years), USER INTERFACE DESIGN (10+ years), WEB UI (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), Wordpress (10+ years), PHP Links http://matthogeboom.com Awards BOLI 2013-03 News12 - Best website redesign. Emmy 2010-02 Alzheimer’s: The love and the heartbreak - Best interactive design Press Club of Long Island 2015-03 Newsday.com – Best website redesign Additional Information Expertise  • Web Development   • CSS/SASS   • Search Engine Optimization  • UX & UI Design   • jQuery   • Cross-Browser Compatibility  • Mobile App Design  • Wordpress Development   • Hosting & Maintenance  • HTML5   • Brand Development   • Site Troubleshooting