Web Application Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web & Mobile Application Developer Los Angeles, CA I'm an experienced web software developer and IT systems analyst who has worked in various industries, most recently trying to pursue my passion in the educational technology space. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Application Developer Prehension Software 2015 to Present As a member of a distributed web development team for an educational software startup, I am working remotely on a web-based learning management system for the online education market. Main responsibilities revolve around data-driven UI and visualization functionality using various Javascript technologies, especially D3.js. Director of Information & Educational Technology Armenian Mesrobian School 2013 to 2015 In charge of design, management, and support of heterogeneous network and software systems.  Supported a faculty of over 30 and a student body of over 200.  Initiated a crucial upgrade project which brought the campus from almost no iT infrastructure up to its current status with high-speed internet, a large mixed wired & wireless network spanning multiple buildings, network security, networked content & application server management with Microsoft and Citrix technologies, and setup a 1:1 managed Chromebook environment with Google Apps for Education. As project lead I also coordinated between state and local government offices and our IT vendors to qualify for and successfully transition to an E-RATE subsidy program, reducing IT costs by more than half and making the upgrade fall within a tight budget.  Initiated and lead a major educational technology and policy project which transitioned curriculum to a common core standards-based foundation with a proficiency-based grading system. In charge of procurement, installation, maintenance, and support of learning management systems and related software for students and instructors. Web Application Developer, Partner 2005 to 2013 Responsibilities included web development and management of multiple online web properties. I developed and supported e-commerce and content management-based websites for a multitude of online businesses. I programmed in PHP, Javascript, Perl, and Python. I used several open source platforms including OSCommerce, PHPNuke, Drupal, Joomla, and others. I managed site analytics using google analytics as well as custom data analysis scripts. I also managed on-site and remote hosting servers running Linux, Apache, and MySQL. Software QA Engineer Condusiv Technologies 2003 to 2004 Worked on the Diskeeper product team in testing and QA. Main focus was to consolidate and automate the testing tools and processes used during the development cycle. Utilized IBM's Rational software suite as well as Perl and command line scripting to write and deploy fully-automated whitebox and blackbox testing modules. IT Support Analyst Caltech 2001 to 2002 Member of IT support staff at the Infrared Processing and Analysis Center at Caltech (IPAC) supporting research scientists in a Sun/Unix network environment.  Initiated a project to develop custom modules in Perl and C++ for a web-based helpdesk ticketing system to conform with changing user needs and workflows as a result of large internal policy changes. Education Certification University of Southern California 2018 to Present Skills PHP, Wordpress, Angular, Javascript, Jquery, HTML5 Links http://www.haigsh.com