Sr. Knowledge Manager Sr. Knowledge Manager Lead Software Engineer Vienna, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Knowledge Manager Octo Consulting Group - Fort Belvoir, VA July 2019 to Present Manage Defensive Cyber Operation SharePoint intranet sites and site content. Lead Software Engineer CACI, Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice, Pentagon City, VA June 2016 to May 2019 Administered and developed modernized intranet, team sites, and site prototypes.  ? Directed and prioritized projects with the Office of Administration and Office of Compliance senior executives.  ? Prepared, organized, and, customized departmental sites, and templates for stakeholder groups, and administrative department.  ? Developed custom solutions using SharePoint Object Model, SharePoint Client Object Model, PowerShell, and JavaScript Libraries.  ? Developed and maintained SharePoint sites' content.  ? Assisted troubleshooting complex SharePoint application problems and server issues, including client environments, application configuration, user permissions, and data accuracy.  ? Communicated with the Development Team and clients to ensure client expectations met.  ? Managed all aspects of 1100+ customer and internal SharePoint projects.  ? Provided proposal input to support CACI's win of the DEA recompete.  ? Managed projects of all sizes through intake, initiation, planning, manage and monitor, execution, and closing while managing the constraints of time, and quality.  ? Developed dashboards for tracking live data.  ? Produced outstanding effort and managed projects under tight deadlines and changing requirements.  ? Developed organized sites and workflows and documentation for custom and complex applications.  ? Planned, directed, and coordinated activities relating to technology and business-unit projects, at the highest level, for multiple projects.  ? Automated DEA's policies and forms' approval workflow business processes and implemented custom SharePoint solutions for efficiency.  ? Customized SharePoint sites and site branding and built the custom search.  ? Collaborated with FBI and DOJ to review their Policy approval processes to improve DEA's processes.  ? Analyzed and evaluated agency objectives and the administration of a major agency program.  ? Interpreted policies, procedures, and provided recommendations to improve agency-wide programs.  ? Scheduled brainstorming sessions with clients/end-users/stakeholders/ developer to understand and finalize detailed technical requirements and implement solutions to address those.  ? Provided status reports to project sponsor, content activity report, audit log reports to keep executives and senior management informed of program status and related issues.  ? Created Technical Design Documents and support creation of additional technical project documents such as Test Cases.  ? Conducted and facilitate technical demos to stakeholders  ? Assessed existing systems and provide recommendations for technical improvements and innovation.  ? Ensured end-users and stakeholders were satisfied with the delivered software. Ensured the application end-user interface is clear and easy to use, and the delivered software works correctly and meets the user's business needs.  ? Performed analysis to ensure software changes have minimal impact on existing systems.  ? Met client standards, including compliance with published standard architecture(s), completion of required system documentation, compliance with Section 508 accessibility requirements, and compliance with client Security Assessment and Authorization standards.  ? Prepared guidelines and procedures to facilitate policy document collaboration, automated DEA-45/eForms approval process, reminders, and new or request completion notifications.  ? Established and maintained effective working relationships with management and internal and external personnel.  ? Advised senior Executives and Section Chiefs to define overall goals and objectives of projects.  ? Developed records retention, e-Forms, Automated DEA 45, Policy Portal, and Risk Management portal SharePoint sites.  ? Coordinated client meetings, documented workflow processes, presentations, instructions, and new user guides. Lead SharePoint Developer US Department of State - Rosslyn, VA May 2016 to June 2016 Designed and developed CTO product library to record inventory of all related CTO products, applications, and their different versions. Created nested lists in SharePoint.  ? Designed and developed effective methods for assessment of projects' progress.  ? Planned and participated in preparing documentation for migration from version 2010 to Office365.  ? Resolved technical problems and administered project management guidelines. Project Manager/ SharePoint Developer US Department of State - Rosslyn, VA January 2015 to April 2016 - January 2015 - April 2016  ? Managed all SharePoint projects' plan and maintained internal operation (400+ users). Oversaw a team of developers to implement applications using an agile approach. Set clear expectations and goals for project teams. Prepared project schedules, work plans, and budgetary estimates.  ? Analyzed Requests for Proposals/Task Orders (RFPs/RFIs/RFTOPs) to extract Government requirements and create requirements driven outlines.  ? Facilitated lessons learned meetings at the end of the proposal effort.  ? Created and managed significant SharePoint site collections (13), sites (20+) and applications (100+) for the OIG Front Office, Executive Office, Audit Office, and Investigation office.  ? Oversaw all aspects of projects; set deadlines, assigned responsibilities, monitored and summarized progress of projects.  ? Collaborated with Information Resource Management (IRM) and network teams to resolve significant application issues. Supported system testing and post-deployment activities for assigned applications.  ? Notified business and project managers of risks at the earliest opportunity and took ownership/pride in delivering excellence.  ? Supported budget invoice management system (with PIV card sign-on), OIG daily operational system, semiannual reports to Congress portal sites using SharePoint, JavaScript, CSS, and InfoPath forms.  ? Demonstrated software capabilities (MS Dynamics, ServiceNow AvePoint, Metalogix, K2.) to improve clients' operations.  ? Implemented and managed migration processes on classified and non-classified networks from SharePoint 2007 to 2010 and 2010 to Office365.  ? Provided guidance to the client regarding development processes, specifically the need for requirements documentation, thoroughness of test cases, and robustness of code.  ? Covered a full range of SharePoint solutions, including pre-deployment analysis and planning, and transitioning to steady-state management.  ? Managed connecting multiple data sources and SharePoint lists, and created Matrix, Grid, Charts, scoreboards, Power View/MAP using PowerBI.  ? Prepared and assisted OIG with SharePoint Governance planning, functionality, system requirements, and technical information for Microsoft Office365 migration. Sr. Lead Developer US Department of State - Washington, DC December 2013 to January 2015 Designed, developed, and maintained Department of State EAP SharePoint and web intranet websites for front office senior executives and staff (supported 320+ users).  ? Assisted with all functions associated with the design, implementation, and maintenance of SQL Server databases, including security, back-up, indexing, reporting, applications, and recovery procedures.  ? Managed five servers and six SQL databases. Administered SQL databases daily backups. Resolved server issues and transferred data from 6 physical servers to virtual servers. IT Consultant Cascade Technologies Inc - Herndon, VA August 2013 to September 2013 Collaborated with Cascade team and subcontractors to review client requirements and assisted them to prepare the proposal to win the contract.  ? Focused on action, impact, and value of the written proposal plan.  ? Advised significant changes to improve the proposal plan.  ? Highlighted and explained the proposal strategy.  ? Informed with all technical aspect of the proposal. Sr. Web Developer Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation - Arlington, VA April 2010 to August 2013 Responsible for all stages of the FDIC website creation from initial design and architecture to development, deployment, and management of internet and intranet websites.  ? Led project teams to design, develop, and maintain responsive intranet and internet sites on schedule and within budget. Supported daily operations and bank closings. Implemented automated countdown timer for upcoming board meetings.  ? Prepared and maintained training modules, presentations, and Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and managed documentation in StarTeam/SharePoint for the client and team access.  ? Ensured web pages complied with Section 508 guidelines. Expertise in cross-browser development and web standards.  ? Created and maintained press releases, special alerts, topics, and groups in GovDelivery.  ? Worked directly with the client to develop project requirements and project goals to ensure that all objectives were identified and accomplished. Project Management HP Quality Center 2010 to 2013 Project Management: Statements of work/proposals, Change Management, Technical Resource Management, Configuration Management, User Acceptance Testing, Production planning, Unit Testing, Reporting Services, Collaboration, Discussions/Surveys, Governance, Requirements Management  Web Development tools/Environment/Software/Server: XHTML/HTML5, XML, JavaScript, jQuery, Custom UI, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, SQL, Dreamweaver, IPSwitch, Microsoft Visio, MS PowerPoint, Remedy, ServiceNow, InfoPath 2013, JAWS (Accessibility Checker), Photoshop 7.0/CS2/CS4/CS5/CC, IIS 6, IIS 7, HP Quality Center  Web Portal/Content Management/Could: Microsoft SharePoint 2007/2010/2013/Office365, AZURE, AWS, Oracle Portal Content Manager Northrop Grumman - Client - Washington, DC June 2004 to April 2010 Designed, developed, and maintained DOJ Criminal Divisions' (CRM) internet and intranet websites. Worked closely with Attorneys, Sections Chiefs, Executives, and Directors. Web Content Manager/ Web Developer US Department of Defense - Alexandria, VA October 2002 to January 2004 Designed, developed and maintained DOD world-wide environmental websites DENIX and Navy Supply Systems Command Navy (NAVSUP). Met with clients weekly and traveled to Pentagon to get project requirements from clients (Navy, Air Force, US National Guard, and Army). Education Master in Computer Science in Computer Science Rockwell University December 2003 Bachelor of Arts Panjab University September 1992 to April 1996 Skills Javascript, MySQL, Project Management (5 years) Assessments Search Engine Optimization — Familiar June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/sjpn-syeqskxc1j8 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.