Web Content Manager <span class="hl">Web</span> Content Manager Web Content Manager/ Web Designer Marietta, GA Dynamic, creative and ambitious web savvy Marketing Manager with a progressive track record of resolving escalating responsibilities and challenges. Advanced ability to communicate through online and written communications to a large scale audience through excellence copy writing and editing skills, technical know-how, web-design, Marketing and superior organizational skills.    View my online Portfolio at www.msusantaylorportfolio.com. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Content Manager Security Product Depot, LLC September 2010 to September 2018 * Write, edit and proof creative and informative articles, blogs and product content for a wide audience.  * Create and manage websites to achieve revenue growth goals and objectives while providing a user friendly customer experience.  * Performed competitive site reviews and analysis to benchmark content breadth, organization and presentation.  * Develop Search Engine friendly content and analyze results using Google Analytics.  * Create and maintain Google Pay Per Click campaigns for a positive return on investment.  * Work in conjunction with domestic and international third party services in regards to site upgrades and issue resolution.  * Manage and post to Social Media sites including Facebook, Twitter & Pinterest.  * Create HTML files for execution of email campaigns. Track and analyze results.  * Develop ad concept, images and website design.  * Add and modify products and maintain accurate pricing. Copy Writer, Web Designer, Search Engine Optimization Instawares, LLC - Marietta, GA January 2009 to August 2010 * Developed online content for high margin products using organic long-tail key word strategies to improve Search Engine Optimization results.  * Led significant increase in organic traffic results by implementing aggressive e-Commerce and search engine optimization strategies.  * Applied dynamic research and analytical talents to define search engine algorithms that impacted performance; created compelling, key-word rich copy for marketing tools designed to target specified audiences. Category Manager Instawares, LLC. - Kennesaw, GA December 2007 to January 2009 * Maintained complete accountability for performance results for multiple eCommerce websites; analyzed trend data, keyword usage and competitive analytics to increase penetration and increase market share.  * Championed product line introduction; recommended website upgrade to increase customer traffic and collaborated extensively with IT group to optimize design strategies.  * Ensured website changes were aligned with usability and navigational best practices; implemented key performance benchmarks to identify success.  * Designed annual promotions calendar to drive repeat traffic, analyzed ad spend to support aggressive ROI requirements. Content Editor Instawares, LLC - Kennesaw, GA May 2007 to December 2007 * Authored online customer friendly content Shopping Guides for products and manufacturers to describe non-technical descriptions, uses and guidance for appropriate product selection.  * Collaborate with shoppers, manufacturers and technical expects to determine the best alternative and practices provide practical product information. Web Developer Worldspan, LLP June 2001 to April 2007 * Spearheaded the implementation of the Sales Intranet; multi-phased website development, visual design, maintenance, strategy, authored content, edited and proofed copy from guest writers, created brand centered graphics and ensured timely deliverables.  * Interacted with users to gather feedback and implemented enhancements based on data; troubleshot deficiencies in navigation and resolution, and established standardized requirements for the creation and maintenance of sites.  * Participated in responding to Request for Proposals. Senior Market Analyst Worldspan, LLP March 1994 to June 2001 * Contributed dynamic research and analysis skills to identify market trends and customer requirements; developed comprehensive global marketing plans, and monitored results of monthly promotional activities.  * Project managed all planning, resource utilization, and progress updates; consistently met timelines and requirements. Education Associate Degree in Graphic Design Penn Foster College - Scranton, PA Certificate in Website Design Kennesaw State University Continuing Education - Kennesaw, GA Skills HTML (8 years), WORD (10+ years), OPTIMIZATION (5 years), COPYWRITING (10+ years), DREAMWEAVER (5 years), Photoshop (8 years), SEO, Digital Marketing, Google Analytics, Marketing, Indesign, Wordpress, search engine optimization, Advertising, Social Media Marketing, Graphic Design, Social Media Management, Google Adwords, Customer Service Links http://www.msusantaylorportfolio.com Certifications/Licenses Certificate in Website Design Assessments Search Engine Optimization — Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/2gbbzkfzonhb1h-d Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Core competencies include:    E-Commerce Research and Development  Enhance Organic Traffic/ Keyword Optimization  Copywriting/Proofing/Editing  Web Content Management Strategy  Manage Social Media Sites  Technical Savy/Issue Resolution  Website Ad Designs & Copy  Web Optimization/Multi Variant Testing  Campaign Development/Deployment/Management  Create and Maintain Blogs    HTML, Fireworks, Photoshop, Word Press, Robohelp,  XCart, Joomla, Java Applets, Dreamweaver, Microsoft Office Suite