Research Programmer Research Programmer Pittsburgh, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Research Programmer Carnegie Mellon University - Pittsburgh, PA July 2018 to Present I'm responsible for data analysis in Python and Matlab, using machine learning techniques to extract features from fMRI brain images. I also handle experiment automation in Python, and support Linux users with our compute cluster. I perform some web development, writing Javascript to enhance our lab webpage. Computer Systems Specialist University of Pittsburgh - Pittsburgh, PA October 2016 to April 2018 In this job, I designed and built lab webpages using dynamic Javascript features. I was also a Linux system administrator, maintaining several web servers and network storage servers. I provided technical support in using Linux for scientific computing. I also contributed to grad students' coding projects in Python. Web Developer University of Pittsburgh - Pittsburgh, PA May 2017 to August 2017 In this summer web development position, I worked for my university's pharmacy school. I built several lightweight web pages to display data from Google Maps and PubMed APIs, learning about PHP and MySQL in the process. I also maintained several huge web pages and worked to optimize their loading speed with server-side improvements. I also implemented several webdev best practices for agile development and project management. Research Assistant University of Pittsburgh - Pittsburgh, PA April 2016 to September 2016 I conducted research on EEG recording in my university's neurosurgery department. I did data analysis in Matlab and used machine learning libraries to compute a prediction of eye movements based on EEG recordings, so that they could be mapped to inputs on a visual console for paraplegic patients. I learned about conducting research in a biological lab and scientific computing in this position. Education Bachelor's in Electrical Engineering University of Pittsburgh-Pittsburgh Campus - Pittsburgh, PA September 2013 to December 2017 Skills Matlab (4 years), Linux (5 years), Python (2 years), C (1 year), HTML (5 years), PHP (1 year), Unix Administration (2 years), Hardware (4 years), Solidworks (1 year), Git (4 years), Autocad (1 year), Assembly (Less than 1 year), Analog, PCB Links https://github.com/mike-u http://www.mikeurich.com/ Assessments Problem Solving — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/keisnvc1ty-bllet Data Analysis — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/1d3d74ijhs8te2rb Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Publications Development of Seamless Telepresence Robot Control Methods to Interact with the Environment Using Physiological Signals https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=3177843 2018-03 Current assistive devices to help disabled people interact with the environment are complicated and cumbersome. Our approach aims to solve these problems by developing a compact and non-obtrusive wearable device to measure signals associated with human physiological gestures, and therefore generate useful commands to interact with the smart environment. Our innovation uses machine learning and non-invasive biosensors on top of the ears to identify eye movements and facial expressions. With these identified signals, users can control different applications, such as a cell phone, powered wheelchair, smart home, or other IoT (Internet of Things) devices with simple and easy operations. Combined with VR headset, the user can use our technology to control a camera-mounted telepresence robot to navigate around the environment in the first-person's view (FPV) by eye movements and facial expressions. It enables a very intuitive way of interaction totally hands-free and touch-free.