Manager, Information Systems Manager, Information Systems Manager, Information Management with AWS Experience North Wales, PA Acquire a challenging position where my IT, Quality Assurance and Project Management experience will be used to help transform business, drive growth, and contribute to strategic business initiatives.    CARREER SUMMARY  Over Fifteen Years of IT business systems and project management career with consistent and measurable achievements in:    • Project Management (Agile/Waterfall) • Quality Assurance  • Technical Systems Development  • Business Requirements Development    • Software Usability & Development  • Test Development    • Web Development • Data Warehouse Testing    Successful in overcoming demanding process, technological, financial, and cultural challenges to drive growth, profitability and performance improvement. Expertise includes:    • Strategic Planning • Outsourcing and Partnerships  • Software Development Life Cycle Model Development and Execution  • Risk Management    • Vendor Management  • Testing Best Practices  • Team Building    • Issue Management Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Manager, Information Systems Accolade - Plymouth Meeting, PA 2014 to Present T2014 – Present Manager, Information Management - Accolade  Information Management for implementations for data partner within AWS environments. Additional responsibilities included QA manager for the application integration team. Supported the implementation of customer data feeds for operations, reporting, and mobile applications. Managed multiple agile teams to support delivery and process improvement.     WORK EXPERIENCE    • Managed multiple teams of developers and QA analysts to support data and application integration with customers and health care providers  • Developed and supported the implementation of an Agile methodology for the development and QA teams  • Worked with both internal and external business stakeholder and customers to ensure delivery of data feeds were delivered on time  • Created QA Methodology for customer delivery.   • Worked closely with ETL developers to standardize process and development methodology.   • Supported the Data Quality operations team onshore and offshore  • Worked with data partners to report back weekly production issues and data trends to improve data quality for the customer operations team.   • Created and supported quality test beds for multiple applications and products  • Worked with developers and architects to support data integration improvements in AWS environment  • Subject Matter Lead on the clinical utilization management feed where I worked closely with the business to define requirements and business rules to support the operations team.  • Developed Metrics program to support product Service Level Agreements for each customer  • Worked with JIRA/Confluence to managed project deliverables and due dates Quality Assurance Program Manager General Dynamics IT 2009 to 2014 The QA Program Lead who manages all Quality Assurance activities for the medical logistics software program within the Defense Logistics Agency. Responsibilities include developing and maintaining all policies, procedures, and department metrics for all software developed. Additional support provided to the program management team to support the methodology and process improvement policies.    WORK EXPERIENCE  • Defense Logistics Agency Quality Assurance Program Manager who supports all program management process, quality assurance, and quality control activities within the Medical Wholesale Program for the Defense Logistics Agency.    • Developed Testing approach and plans for Defense Logistics medical data warehouse (Informatica).    • Developed a quality assurance policy for the DLA wholesale program.  • Worked directly with QA teams to help develop and execute functional and regression test plans. Support teams to ensure testing scope was accurately identified, tested, and documented for each release.  • Implemented Test Control procedures to support DLA web based applications (Performance, Stress, Load, etc.).    • Manages the day to day workload and project priorities for all manual and automation testers.    • Develops and supports the quality process and procedures for multiple data warehouses for the Medical and Pharmacy product catalog. Multi sourced data program that supports the government streamlining of products and pricing for all VA hospitals and medical bases.    • Developed and implemented quality assurance metric program to help improve software quality.    • Used metrics to implement new quality assurance policies to ensure quality was built into all the software developed within the program.    • Instrumental in the implementation of joint division projects that have far surpassed corporate objectives with CMMI project modeling.    • Responsible for maintaining ARIS work flows and business process to ensure quality is adhered.  • Initiated and implemented the Configuration Management policy for all projects and software within the program.  • Ensured all projects within the DLA portfolio were following the outlined quality practices within each project.  • Helped infrastructure teams to stand up QA Environments to ensure proper configuration and databases were available to test large data scope.  • Supported the program management team as liaison for all quality initiatives.  • Outlined best practices and procedures to ensure quality was built into all software delivered projects.  • Trained product team on quality reporting and best practices. Quality Assurance Delivery Manager Aetna US HealthCare, Inc - Blue Bell, PA 2002 to 2009 WORK EXPERIENCE  • Responsible for project budget for all assigned projects.  • Managed 10 manual testers as well as managing offshore test activities.  • Responsible for the tester's assessment and growth within the QA discipline.  • Used HP Quality Center to track and deliver all Quality Control activities.  • HP Load Runner to automate existing regression beds  • Quick Test Professional to assist in data driven testing.  • Supported testing on large scale main frame projects (IBM AIX)  • Custom script, parallel, and manual testing on mainframe applications  • Consistently drives roadmap initiatives across her team ensuring objectives were accomplished and/or take up requirements exceeded up (e.g. Agile Testing, early adopters, Pairwise testing etc.)  • Supported multiple applications and exceeded results leveraging Project Life Cycle, CMMI, and Project Management disciplines, risked based thinking and collaboration to meet delivery timeframes and exceeded quality expectations.  • Worked closely with remote and off shore teams to ensure quality strategy and plan was successfully developed and implemented.  • Use statistical analysis techniques and tools to identify and report on project trends. Report these trends to senior management and project teams. Helps project teams to identify new or revised action plans based on trend analysis.  • Communicate (verbal and written) with business, development, and senior management on the progress of the Release Period project goals, objectives, and testing efforts.  • Collaborate with development team, project services, business and senior management to summarize progress and objectives.  • Create reliable project work estimates and schedule for self and others, and identifies associated dependencies, constraints and assumptions. Ensures that assigned projects stay within budget and budget dollars updated appropriately.  • Use QES best practices to identify practices within project teams that do not contribute to their efficiency and overall success.  • Developed strong Automation suites for existing applications to help reduce overall support cost and testing turnaround time frames.  • Work under the business owners to provide cross-project information, resourcing and scheduling input.  • Report on shore and off shore status of all testing activities, such as requirements trace matrix, test case development and execution, bug/defect tracking and reporting, integration, user-acceptance, quality metrics, and regression testing activities both internally and externally. Programmer Analyst VerticalNet Inc 2000 to 2002 Developed, Configured, and Implemented Microsoft SharePoint Portal for Master Brand Cabinets, a division of Fortune Brands, to provide actionable information to members of a distributed community quickly and easily, ensuring up-to-date knowledge-delivery and information sharing.  • Developed a custom polling and survey application as a collaboration tool to help gain employee and customer feedback.  • Developed Verticalnet Intranet, the Knowledge Center an online repository for projects, news, and training materials.  • Wrote functional and performance scripts with Rational Tool Suite for QA of software applications.  • Developed Graphical User Interface of Auction platform site, using JSP, HTML, and Javascript in accordance with Business and Design Specifications.  • Worked with team of Programmers to write stored procedures and Java classes for second tier of application. Web Developer Omnient Corporation 2000 to 2000 • Developer of E-Commerce Web Sites using HTML, JavaScript, ASP, XML, and XSL.  • Consulted with clients concerning Business and Technical Specifications via interviews and weekly meetings to drive the clients view of the project.  • Developed On-Line classifieds advertising site.  • Developed an On-Line interactive E-magazine using HTML, JavaScript, and ASP with an Access Database. Web Developer Eastern Business Software Inc 1999 to 2000 • Project Lead for web based and client/server applications including Trade Risk Group and Dexpo an online dental exchange.  • Managed several programmers and developers within one project.  • Developed design specifications and managed the development of several web based projects for secure client sites and interactive extranets.  • Created sale leads and consulted with clients on web-related projects and enhancements resulting in an increase in revenue. Education Masters of Business Administration in International Perspective Arcadia University 2010 Bachelor of Arts in Communication Studies West Chester University 1999 Skills SQL (5 years), Quality Assurance (10+ years), Project Management (10+ years), ETL (5 years), Testing (10+ years), Implementation (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Tools: Team Foundation Server (TFS), JIRA, Visual Studio, Mercury (HP) Quality Center, Proficient in Microsoft Project, Excel, Word, and PowerPoint. Planview (enterprise PM tool), Visual Studio: Visual InterDev, Visual Source Safe, SQL Server, Jbuilder; Macromedia Products: Dreamweaver, Flash, Fireworks; Rational Tool Suite: Rational Robot, Clearquest, Clear Case,Test Manager; Adobe Photo Shop, FrontPage, Microsoft Access, Microsoft Visio.  Languages: .NET , SQA, ASP, SQL, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, DHTML, VBScript, JSP, Cascading Style Sheets (CCS)