Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Privacy in Practice (PIP) Consulting San Mateo, CA Work Experience Software Developer Privacy in Practice (PIP) Consulting - San Mateo, CA December 2018 to Present Built business development tool for PIP's site visitors to benchmark maturity of their privacy operations  utilizing Node.js, Express, PostgreSQL, JavaScript and Angular4 which increased amount of clients.  ? Developed feature for PIP admin to post latest privacy news and developments on website with Node.js, Express, PostgreSQL and Angular4 to increase site traffic by 20%.  ? Created website for PIP using JavaScript, Angular4, HTML5 and CSS3 as foundational privacy consulting  platform. Software Developer Warpcache - San Mateo, CA April 2018 to November 2018 Developed HLS player able to switch between multiple CDN providers utilizing JavaScript, AngularJS, Python, Django, and PostgreSQL, optimizing debugging time of new live streams by 50X.  ? Created graph to show request hits and misses using Python, Django, PostgreSQL, JavaScript, AngularJS, and Highcharts to detect defects earlier and generates 5% more income for company.  ? Enhanced tool displaying headers settings of each CDN setup in responsive table overview utilizing Python, Django, PostgreSQL, JavaScript, and AngularJS, minimizing time to configure multiple CDN providers by 15%.  ? Developed tool to determine if URL is using CDN with Python, Django, PostgreSQL, HTML5 and CSS3, generating new business opportunities. Web Developer Code for San Francisco - San Francisco, CA March 2017 to August 2017 Created new events page for Brigadehub website with ability to manage new events using JavaScript, Node.js, Express, MongoDB, Pug, and Sass which generated 10% more site visits.  ? Built event page displaying event details and allowing for RSVPs using JavaScript, Node.js, Express, MongoDB, Pug, and Sass, designed to reduce cost for Meetup.com by more than 80%.  ? Updated home page to list upcoming meetings for attendees to directly RSVP from homepage with JavaScript, Node.js, Express, MongoDB, Pug, and Sass, improved accuracy of attending head count. Software Developer Letters4Animals - San Jose, CA October 2016 to December 2016 Created ability to choose pre-signed letter to be printed and sent to local or state representatives with Node.js, Express, PostgreSQL, and AngularJS.  ? Developed feature for users to customize pre-signed letter with own text before printing utilizing JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.js Express and PostgreSQL.  ? Improved layout and UI for platform using JavaScript, AngularJS, HTML5, and CSS3 to improve flow and user  experience of website. Education Associate in Contact Lens Specialist ROC Zadkine - Rotterdam September 2000 to June 2004 Skills DJANGO, JAVASCRIPT, NODE.JS, Angular4+, HTML 5, CSS3, Express, Python, PostgresSQL, MySQL, MongoDB, Git, CSS, Jquery Links https://linkedin.com/in/bas-sondag https://github.com/BasSondag https://bassondag.com