Automotive Mechanic Automotive Mechanic Automotive Mechanic - VW/Audi Mechanic - European Automotive Mechanic Cartersville, GA I started my career as a freelance web developer and have a strong passion for anything automotive related. I have built many different types of vehicles over the span of 12 years. My passion is VW/Audi Vehicles. I have 12 years of automotive experience. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Automotive Mechanic Mineke - Woodstock, GA August 2019 to August 2019 General Automotive Repair such as replacing faulty components on vehicles and doing 5 point vehicle inspections. Wordpress Developer Codeable November 2017 to August 2019 Speaking with customers about their scope of work and helping analysis their wants and needs and problems they have in their business. Helping solve those problems by providing valuable insights and value. Organizing work requirements based upon customer needs. Following accuracy of performance and strict time management End Web Developer MajeMedia May 2018 to October 2018 Creating custom WordPress websites and plugins. Working with mostly front-end development but on some projects back-end development is required. eCommerce Developer Tayse Rugs - Calhoun, GA September 2017 to November 2017 Creating eCommerce software solutions that integrated with excel spreadsheets to provide ease of use for publishing new products to retailers. End Web Developer TripCraft June 2015 to February 2016 Working in a team driven environment. Providing daily reports to project manager on work I performed for that day. Helping coworkers solve problems with their tasks if needed. Education None in High School Sequoyah High School - Canton, GA Skills Customer service, Microsoft office, Marketing, Automotive parts, Problem resolution, Detail oriented, Teaching, Auto Mechanic, Auto Technician, Automotive Service, Auto Tech, Suspension, Auto Repair Certifications/Licenses Driver's License C Class Assessments Vehicle Maintenance — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of general vehicle maintenance inspections to complete minor repairs. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ztdwfazome3e1fe Mechanical Skills: Monitoring — Familiar August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to monitor machine indicators in order to ensure safe and appropriate operation. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/2o91svlxcgtsk9sv Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information References     Don Jones / Co-Worker  571-991-1041    Deontay / Provided VW/Audi  Repair Services  678-535-8911