ServiceNow Admin/ Developer ServiceNow Admin/<span class="hl">Developer</span> ServiceNow Admin/ Developer - CareSource Dayton, OH • A Qualified IT Professional with 6 Plus years of experience as Service-Now developer and administrator.  • Experience in Health, Insurance, Finance, and E-commerce.  • Experience with ServiceNow Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in two projects.  • Exposure to Service-Now platform tools like Discovery and Orchestration Environment.  • Extensive experience of integrating ServiceNow with 3rd party tools and implantation of SOAP and REST API.  • Performed several Integrations like LDAP, SSO, JIRA, Workday, Slack, Tanium and Remedy.  • Hands on Experience with ITSM, ITAM, ITOM, GRC and related topics and modules.  • Experience with networking devices and Mobile services.  • In-depth knowledge of the technical implementation of Discovery, Incident Management, Change Management, Risk Management, Problem management, Knowledge Management, Configuration Management, Service Portal Service Catalog, Reporting, Integrations, LDAP, Altars, SAML 2.0, SCCM, SSO, and CMDB.  • Involved in Geneva and Helsinki up gradation and worked on Geneva, Helsinki and Istanbul Versions.  • Good experience in developing workflows in customizing applications in ServiceNow using JAVA Script, Jelly, XML and HTML.  • Experienced with networking concepts like proxy servers and Firewalls.  • Worked on ServiceNow Discovery Module, comfortable deploying discoveries in a multi-datacenter environment and Proven ServiceNow implementation experience.  • Wrote Catalog client scripts and UI policies to make client-side changes.  • Managed all aspects of the Service Catalog application, including scripting functions such as creating UI macros, Business rules and UI pages.  • Create and maintain API and data integration between ServiceNow and other services.  • Expertise in Multiple CMS tools (Jelly, Glide) and implementing systems using the Agile/Scrum and Waterfall methodology.  • Experience in database design using PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and strong experience in writing complex queries for Oracle.  • Developed SQL Loader control programs, interfaces and PL/SQL validation scripts to transfer flat file data into oracle database.  • Experience in using JavaScript, J2EE, JSP, Hibernate, JMS, JSF, XML, HTML, AJAX and web-based tools. Work Experience ServiceNow Admin/ Developer CareSource - Dayton, OH January 2019 to Present Developing a Facilities Application which makes ease for all the users to request for different services by accessing through a single form. Requesters raise the Work orders for their requests and Coordinator assigns the Work orders for the Fulfillers to fulfill them. The same Application is developed for the Tablet and Mobile users as well which reduces the work of fulfillers to access the work orders without logging into the instance when they are around the plan.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering the requirements from the Business Team and creation of technical, functional specification documents.  • Implementation of different modules of ServiceNow as per requirements and ITIL process - Incident Management, Problem Management, Change Management, Asset Management and Service Catalogs.  • Developing integrations both inbound and outbound. SOAP & REST.  • Setting up Mid-Servers for outbound integrations.  • Created ACL's to grant access to specified users and managing the assignment rules.  • Moving Update sets from non-production to production.  • Upgrading instance from Eureka to Fuji. Upgrading instance from Fuji to Geneva.  • Cloning of production instances to non-production instances.  • Performing by weekly releases in production. LDAP, Initial Data Loads, Import Sets, automated integrations and address exceptions.  • Customizations in ServiceNow forms as per client's requirement.  • Involved in redesigning the workflows using ServiceNow workflow editor.  • Worked on migration between various ServiceNow environments using Update Sets.  • Worked on loading the data into ServiceNow using Import Sets.  • Worked on Configuration and maintenance of Business Rules (Basic and Advanced), Client Scripts and UI Policies in ServiceNow.  • Involved in creating and configuring the SLAs as per the requirement.  • Responsible for the acceptance, identification, storage and withdrawal of all supported CIs.  • Responsible for ensuring that all the CIs are registered, and these records are correct and up to date.  • Troubleshooting HPOO and SCOM agent related issues.  • User Interface - Configure and maintain Forms, Lists, Views, UI Policy, UI Scripts, UI Actions, View Rules, Welcome Page Content, Map Pages and other UI elements for ServiceNow modules.  • Development of Service catalog - catalog items, designing workflows and execution plans.  • Worked on CMDB and populated the CMDB by importing the data of IT assets into the system, centralizing the information.  • Involved in reconciliation of complicated workflows to simpler form.  • Configured multiple Catalog Items Front-end web / GUI components using JavaScript, CSS, HTML5.    Environment: ServiceNow Kingston/Jakarta, JavaScript, HTML 5, Windows 7, HTML, XML, JSP, JSF, Struts, CSS, Angular JS. ServiceNow Admin/ Developer Kaiser Permanente - Pleasanton, CA November 2017 to December 2018 Kaiser Permanente Health & Services in California is for network of hospitals, care centers, health plans, physicians, home health care and clinics, and affiliated services guided by a Mission of caring that the Sisters of Kaiser Permanente began in the West nearly 74 years ago. Kaiser Permanente is introducing Dental Products for their members. As a part of LOB (Line of Business) Extension I am involved in Product development activities and to make dental products available to current and new members.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and delivered technical methodologies around the ServiceNow platform.  • Gathered requirement from stake holders for attributes needed to develop Service Catalog items.  • Worked on CMDB and Asset management. Performed Data migration to import data from other applications and external databases.  • Worked on creating and activating procurement application menu and added modules to the navigator. Created catalog requests, purchase orders and tracking the orders raised in catalog requests.  • Created various front-end forms, and associated Client Scripts, UI policies, ACLS including advanced customizations that require modification of UI Pages/Macros.  • Strong knowledge of the Server-side scripting Business rules and Script Includes.  • Worked with Apache Jelly to create various kinds of UI pages and Macro templates.  • Implemented JDBC Export to execute custom SQL queries in the target database based on requirement.  • Created, Developed and implemented HR cases for automated HR processes, such as employee onboarding and off boarding.  • Worked in installing PORT 995 to securely use POP 3 to receive emails from a remote server and a way to download emails on the client's local computer.  • Implemented, documented and maintained the ServiceNow platform to meet specific business needs to support ITIL and business processes.  • Developed operational requirements documentation and train operational staff to maintain solution.  • Configured Service Level Agreements to define certain levels of service from both internal and external providers.  • Providing the design solution, technical methodologies and processes solution to meet the customer requirements.  • Created Angular directives, services using Angular providers to automatically inject in client script controllers using Angular JS  • Created and edited knowledge articles and created various modules in Knowledge management  • Worked with process owners to develop workflow, implement the workflows in Service Applications and administer the tools and enhanced requests by java script  • Used scripting tools and ServiceNow functionality to create script to automate rote tasks being done in ServiceNow.  • Created Procedure guidelines used in supporting Technology and Application issues. Created HR cases for employees to record the processing of HR requests, such as a request from an employee for a leave of absence.  • Created, Developed and implemented HR cases for automated HR processes, such as employee onboarding and offboarding  • Responsible for maintaining and growing data held within ServiceNow such as our users, service catalog items.  • Customized UI Appearance for Problem and Change Management Application, which is simple, intuitive and easy to use.  • Configuration of Email Notification and Alerts to notify users about specific activities in the system such as updates to Change and Problem requests.    Environment: Service Now Geneva/Fuji, Incident Management, ITIL, SQL, and Problem Management, jQuery, AngularJS, JavaScript, XML UI Developer Goldman Sachs, SFO, CA January 2015 to October 2017 The scope of the project was to build a finance mobile trading platform which can be accessed through any android device or any smartphone that is connected to internet. The project includes a mobile application having an easy to use User Interface (UI) for trading in different financial products. The application is also integrated to provide financial education on various financial products and can also give live data feeds about different stocks. There is also a back-end analysis performed on the consumer trading patterns and automated portfolio management services and trade suggestions are given.    Responsibilities  • Involved in building prototypes based on business requirement which included cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant HTML/CSS layouts.  • Developed additional features including data retrieval, client information dynamic update, etc. using JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, JSON and CSS.  • Utilized HTML, CSS, JavaScript lib (jQuery) to work around default browser settings and improved web page styling and layout.  • Worked in a collaborative and agile environment with minimal supervision in cross-functional teams with product managers and other developers.  • Used regular expression check methods to conduct input check.  • Requested and got data from backend using Ajax call in jQuery to exchange JSON data with backend.  • At later stage of the project, added responsive features using Bootstrap for more user-friendly experience and mobile-app.  • Used SVN and GIT for version control.  • Modified and updated UI pages rapidly after received new requirement from clients.  • Focused on Cross-browser feature of pages. Implemented tests on Chrome, Firefox, IE 7/8/9 with Chrome Developer Tools and Firebug. Fixed bugs and optimized JavaScript codes.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, SVN, Bootstrap Web Developer Progressive Media Groups - IN September 2014 to December 2014 Progressive Media Group is a privately held International group of companies that span Media, Business information Services, Technology and Communications. The scope of the project was to create and maintain a database and generate reports related to the geographic and demographic sales and customer preferences.    Responsibilities:  * Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client-side presentation and, data validation within the forms.  * Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  * Developed HTML prototypes and UI deliverables, such as wireframes, storyboards, flowcharts, screen mock-ups, and interface design specifications.  * Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, Wire-framing, HTML5 and Created XHTML Pages with CSS and the Box Model.  * Using advanced level of JQUERY, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts with media quires and keyframes.  * Provide user interface design for Web-based projects, including dashboards, widgets, and products. Designed PDF, Excel and Print previews for all the reports in the application using HTML, JavaScript.  * Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  * Involved in writing application level code to perform client-side validation with feedback icons using bootstrap and jQuery.  * Developed cross-browser compatible website using HTML5, CSS3, and jQuery.  * Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.    Environment: JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, DHTML, XSLT, SSAS, SQL, Bootstrap, Ajax Education Bachelor of Technology in Technology JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana Master's in Business Administration Monroe College - New York, NY Skills Html, Javascript, Ms project, Perl, Requirement analysis, Scripting, Visio, Xml, Ajax, Css, Ms access, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Pl/sql, Sql, Change management, Configuration management, Disaster recovery, Ldap, Http Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Service Now  Change Management, Incident Management, Problem Management, Service Catalog, Integration with Third Party Tools, Configuration Management, Reporting, Discovery and Integrations, Airwatch, Client Side and Server Side Scripting, Client & Server API's, LDAP, ACL's, ADDM, SSO, Glide Aggregate, Glide Record, Administration, Reporting, Email Notifications, Creating/Editing Home pages, Personalizing Forms    Business Analysis  Requirement analysis, business rules, data flow diagram, flowcharts, business process modeling & improvement, functional requirement Analysis, source to target mappings, gap analysis, cause and effect analysis, decision tree.    Processes Model Tools  MS Office Suite 9X/2000/XP (PowerPoint, Word, Excel, Access, and Outlook), Novell GroupWise, Banner, Lotus Notes, MS Outlook, MS Project, MS Visio, Windows, Unix, JavaScript, Perl and PowerShell.    Methodologies Agile Modeling, SDLC model, Waterfall model, Spiral model.  Test Tools Test Director, Mercury, Silk Testing, Win Runner and Load Runner.  Databases Oracle 10g/9i/8i/8.0/7.0, Disaster recovery, MS Access 7.0/2000, SQL, XML, HTML, PL/SQL, AJAX, CSS and HTTP.