Driver Driver Driver - UBER Groton, CT I am an a A+ Certified I.T. Technician with 21 years of experience. Work Experience Driver UBER January 2017 to Present Pick up and deliver passengers to their destinations in a safe and efficient manner    ? Ensure that customer arrived safely and timely to their destination while creating customer satisfaction.  ? Manage routes through use of Android app technology. Computer Technician Computer Lab - New London, CT April 2018 to September 2018 Performed warranty and repair work on Apple devices and products. As well as PC's and Laptops.    ? iPhone, Apple Watch and iPad repair.  ? Dell, HP, Lenovo and Acer repair.  ? Maintained and filed detailed notes as required by company.  ? Data Restoration.  ? Malware/Virus removal. Technical Support Associate II ePath Learning Inc - New London, CT January 2013 to September 2016 Maintained curriculum content for multiple organizations using ASAP LMS. Provided end user training and technical support.    ? Managed, scheduled and coordinated onsite/offsite trainings for site personnel  ? Created and managed marketing initiatives for annual training calendar  ? Facilitated creation, revision and maintenance of training material content  ? Help Desk/Technical Support Lead  ? Sales Support/Product Demos  ? Training  ? Software Quality Assurance  ? Technical Writing  ? Instructional Design  ? Course Authoring  ? Video Editing  ? PC/Laptop/Printer Repair Web Developer JDC Imaging Solutions - Noank, CT November 2008 to February 2013 Provided effective and functional web designs to company that met their specific business/personal needs.    ? Developed graphic images and effects to achieve design goals  ? Worked directly with client to establish project scope, interaction guidelines, and project timelines  ? Provided competitive market analysis on the e-commerce site and proposed suggestions to the design and available functionality  ? Performed routine updates, upgrades and overall maintenance of website  ? Ensured accuracy of website content by thoroughly editing and cross-checking PC Technician Lawrence & Memorial Hospital - New London, CT January 2007 to November 2008 Ensured performance and availability of IT equipment, including phone systems, servers, desktop computers, printers, laptops, and handheld scanning devices. Collaborated with IT groups for onsite/offsite support and technology resolutions. Installed new hardware and software. Identified user needs and modified systems accordingly.    ? Managed the setup and deployment of computer installs (20 - 100 at a time)  ? Provided Tier 1 & 2 support for a customer base of 2,000+ users.  ? Handled multiple work orders and tasks at a time  ? Repaired basic and advanced PC issues: For example, program errors, viruses, malware, spyware, security, OS issues and hardware malfunction.  ? Updated tickets, provided status updates and follow up resolutions to customers.  ? Installed and maintained network shares and printers, and software on client workstations.  ? Worked with various Support Security Standard (Anti-virus/firewall, etc.) tools to ascertain possible security threats, and resolve any such issues found.  ? Maintained and supported Dell PC'S, HP Printers, Fujitsu and Canon scanners.  ? Performed software and hardware updates as needed.  ? Monitored and maintained daily backups. Contractor Kelly Services - New London, CT April 2006 to January 2007 Information Services Help Desk lead at L&M Hospital Web Designer Mystic Net Marketing - Mystic, CT June 2001 to April 2005 Designed, developed and maintained graphic and web functionality.    ? Designed developed maintained and updated a variety of web sites as assigned.  ? Assisted other design staff members with various aspects of site maintenance as needed.  ? Updated web style sheets and pages on a regular basis and as required.  ? Coordinated various web pages with appropriate links and multimedia elements in collaboration with design team members.  ? Developed Business brands and designed websites for external companies and marketing tools using XML, CSS, HTML, XHTML, JSP, JavaScript, Dreamweaver, Flash, Action-Script and Adobe tools including Go Live, Fireworks, Photoshop, and Illustrator. Education High School Diploma Fitch Senior High School - Groton, CT 1991 to 1995 Certifications/Licenses driver's license