Operations General Manager Operations General Manager Port Saint Lucie, FL I'm eager to join the collaborative work environment and keep up with the latest in design and technology. As a fast learner with a great team-oriented attitude, I would thrive here. I can offer more than 20 years of graphic design, programming and development experience. A high level of expertise in database design, web development and web applications. Networking and cable management experience.  I'm a professional, reliable person, with strong communication skills, detail oriented with problem solving and decision making skills. Also bilingual (Spanish/English). Work Experience Operations General Manager Where's da Party LLC - Port Saint Lucie, FL 2007 to 2019 • Primary Responsibilities: Design of web site, Search Engine Optimization, Marketing, Adwords and Social Media Management, Job Supervisor, Logistics Management, Strategic Management and Business Planning  • Creating accurate quotes, customer service and desk support to the group  • Founder of the company, last three years full time involvement, design and development of backend inventory control software. Management and tracking of advertising campaigns. Management of 10 employees.  • As an Entrepreneur experience I decided to create this company from the ground up. In the last three years after dedicating myself to working full time in it, I was able to increase the year sales from $80,000 to $310,000. Senior Developer City Electric Supply / TAMCO / Tamlite USA - Port Saint Lucie, FL 2010 to 2017 • Primary Responsibilities: Design of web site, intranet and databases  • Development and design of main website, design and development of product databases  • Full upgrade of current website, creation of new features that allowed customer on demand creation of data sheets (specification sheets) using information and images stored into a database base on customer input. Database design and creation that allowed allocation and communication with web apps. Responsible for web design and maintenance of City Electric Supply web site Analyst / Web Master PGA National Resort and Spa - Palm Beach Gardens, FL 2007 to 2010 • Responsible for Design and development of all websites and intranet  • Design and maintenance of several websites (pgaresort.com, pgahondaclassic.com, pgamembersclub.com, ironwood.com, and others)  • Support and troubleshooting PCs, Networks and Network support.  • Support with phone and video systems  • Responsible for creation of marketing materials design, e-blast creations.  • Custom software development of reservation applications Information System Specialist Total Health and Rejuvenation Center - Palm Beach Gardens, FL 2001 to 2009 • Decision making in equipment purchasing and technical resources. Technical Infrastructure design and management  • Primary responsibilities included desk support, troubleshooting, design and development of web sites, marketing campaigns and eblasts.  • Developed and tested database system using PHP and MySQL.  • Creation of banners and printed material for the company.  • Design of the infrastructure of the local network; network setup and maintenance.  • E-BLAST Creation and Marketing Materials.  • Network Setup and Maintenance (Including cable management)  • Setup of VoIP phone systems Analyst / Web Master Center of Environmental Studies, Florida Atlantic University - Jupiter, FL 2003 to 2007 • Design of brochures, printed material for conferences and other events hosted by the Center.  • Analyze requests from clients and users regarding software; create functional and user friendly design.  • Development of web sites and renewal / re-design of the CES web infrastructure.  • One of the major contributions I made to the Center was participating in the development of the IWRN (Inter- American Water Resources Network).  • Assist the Center with renewal and updates of the web system (internet / intranet), previously  written in an outdated language (ihtml); and database migration to MySQL, previously in Oracle.  • Created a registration system for conferences that collects registrant and speaker information with capability to create live visual reports.  • Provide customer support and help desk; Provide Audio/Visual support for conferences and center. Analyst Programmer / Web Master Main Line Corporation - Jupiter, FL 1999 to 2003 • Web Development of Microsoft Windows applications and web applications for commercial use;.  • One of the major contributions I made to this company was my participation in developing ACRIS (Automated City Registry Information System). The installation of this system earned the company a profit of $15 Million. I was responsible for developing the administration system of ACRIS. I designed the web of the system and the interactive tutorial applications for ACRIS. ACRIS was being used by the city of New York  • Actively involved in the upgrade of real estate records system for several counties in the State of Georgia. Responsible for creation of new design of the upgraded version of software as part of the programming team.  • Created application for Cobb County, Georgia, which keeps track of all reject tax payments. This automated program creates letters that notify customers, tracks letters sent to different customers.  • Creation of new interactive web applications increasing revenues and new client base for company;  • Re- designing current web sites, training new web developers, and customer relations.  • Duties also included creation of proposals, interactive macromedia flash demos, and presentations.  • One of the major contributions I made to this company was the creation of an equine community contributions included the design and maintenance of Coverings, a trade show company and creation of multimedia kiosks. Education B.S. in Computer Science Technological University of Havana José Antonio Echeverría - Habana, CU 1996 to 1997 A.S. in Computer Programming New England Institute of Technology - West Palm Beach, FL North Technical Institute - West Palm Beach, FL Skills Database, Microsoft access, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Ajax, Asp, Cold fusion, Css, Dreamweaver, Delphi, Javascript, Php, Voip, Linux, Hardware troubleshooting, Acrobat, Microsoft office, Photoshop, Mac, Jquery, HTML 5 Assessments Search Engine Optimization — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dxif7sjr3jikatjj Graphic Design — Familiar August 2019 Using graphic design techniques and producing visual media to communicate concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/o-zv8tfaqlco3gp7 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS  Languages  • Proficient with: PHP, JavaScript, CSS, MySQL, SQL, AJAX  • Familiar with: Cold Fusion, ASP, Action Script Delphi  Software  • Database: MySQL, Oracle, MSSQL, Microsoft Access  • Programs: Adobe Suite (Photoshop, Illustrator, Acrobat, Dreamweaver), Microsoft Office  • Platforms: Microsoft O.S., Linux, Mac O.S.  Hardware  • Networks, cable management, hardware troubleshooting and repair, knowledge of VoIP phone systems and CCTV systems