Custodian Custodian Jack of all trades always interested in learning more Davenport, IA Outgoing, jack of all trades looking for a great company to grow with. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Custodian Davenport Community School District - Davenport, IA November 2018 to Present Clean schools after hours. Content Writer / Social Media Iridium Creative Services - Davenport, IA August 2018 to Present Write online articles and content for clients.   Develop web functions as needed.  Social media posting as well as some marketing as needed.  Build and maintain websites using CMS applications (wordpress, joomla)  Take and Edit pictures for websites and social media using photoshop and lightroom  Edit video for social media using Adobe Premiere Pro and After Effects. Owner Airmid's Alchemy - Davenport, IA May 2018 to Present Create and sell beard and body products for men and women. Beard Balms, Mustache waxes, and lotion bars. Product development and creation. Owner/Blacksmith BlackStar Forge - Davenport, IA April 2018 to Present Create and Sell hand forged art. Hair Stylist Studio 714 - Davenport, IA January 2018 to Present Cut and Color Hair, Grow and maintain a clientele. Sales/Educator Hattori Hanzo Shears - Davenport, IA August 2016 to January 2018 Shear Sales and Education. Visit salon, educate stylists on shears, scheduled and taught classes on shear theory and hair cutting. Cosmetologist/Hair Stylist Regis Corporation - Charlotte, NC January 2015 to July 2016 Cut and Color hair, maintain and build a guest list. Owner / Consultant SeraphWeb Services - Charlotte, NC June 2001 to September 2013 I owned an IT company that specialized in small to medium businesses and covered the entire spectrum of IT services from web development and hosting to internal networks and systems.    Specialized in various industries including Healthcare, Banking, Education, and E-Commerce. Web Developer Recreation depot - Lumberton, NJ June 2010 to August 2012 Built and maintained the ecommerce website. Also performed in store sales during downtime. Web Developer/Programmer International business company formation - Tappan, NY December 2008 to April 2010 Built new web functionality and maintained the internal network and systems. Web Developer Banx corp. - Boston, MA April 2007 to March 2008 Built and maintained an online banking system. Worked toward PCI certification. Web Developer/Programmer Intellicare, inc - New Haven, CT March 2007 to August 2007 Built a text to voice reminder system for patients to utilize that would remind them to take their medicine by SMS, email, or an automated voice phone call. Education Some college Skills Windows and linux systems and networks (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Helpdesk/support (10+ years), PHP (10+ years), Coldfusion (10+ years), Sales (8 years), Cosmetology (4 years), Hair cutting (4 years) Certifications/Licenses Cosmetology December 2014 to Present