Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Chandler, AZ With my 5+ years in web development, all my experiences and knowledge gained, I have been able to successfully and proactively develop programs and procedures to improve efficiency, workflow, and team moral leading to company implementation and decreased project completion time.   As a current Senior Web Developer, I strive to let my talents and skills shine in a competitive, adaptive, innovative, and creative professional environment. Throughout my career I have maintained a proven track record of increasing revenue, improving client retention rates, and expanding our customer base. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer VMS Data - Peoria, AZ February 2017 to Present • Responsible for designing, coding and modifying websites, from UI/UX to custom advanced coding using the latest HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript/jQuery, PHP trends.  • Create Content Management Systems (CMS) which serve as an interface for clients.  • Use Adobe Creative Suite to aid in the design of visually appealing and responsive websites that feature user-friendly design and clear navigation.  • Created standard Bootstrap 4 company template which cut development time by more than 50% increasing overall yearly revenue.  • Ensure consistent page appearance and behavior across multiple browsers (IE6+, FF, Chrome, Safari).  • Train and supervised multiple team members for ongoing reformatting/quality control projects. Freelance Web Developer/Designer Pixxel Perfect - Chandler, AZ June 2007 to Present • Design and develop custom web solutions using a PSD to HTML process. Using the Adobe Creative Suite along with Adobe XD the client plays a vital role in the overall design of the final project by live interaction.  • Create advance custom code to meet specific clients needs which include: Custom Forms, WordPress, Squarespace, Shopify, CRM’s, Login Systems, Interactive Data Tables.  • Write clean and commented code.  • Integrate dynamic data from various back-end services and databases including MySQL Server and AJAX/JSON. Head Divisional Administrator Green Tree Financial Services September 2003 to June 2007 • Monitored dialer campaigns for efficiency and effectiveness to ensure steady workflow to collection floor agents throughout the day.  • Delivered dialer metrics reporting for upper management in a timely manner.  • Created outbound dialer campaigns (including any ad hoc campaigns and back-end foreclosure campaigns) to meet business goals and objectives.  • Created dialer agent profiles and desktop images for new employees.  • Assisted, and participated in the training of collections supervisors and managers, dialer performance management, and quality reviews.  • Act as a mentor to fellow coworkers to give advice and coach to increase their overall numbers. Mortgage Collections Specialist Green Tree Financial Services - Tempe, AZ November 2002 to September 2003 • Responsible for pursuing 1-30 days past-due accounts according to the Company Standard Operating.   • Achieved numeric standards for servicing delinquent accounts without sacrificing quality of service, and consistently representing the Company in a professional manner by providing good customer service.  • Persuaded delinquent customers to become current while using professionalism. Education Associate in Computer Science / Networking Technology Colins College - Tempe, AZ September 2001 to November 2002 Skills PHP (3 years), Javascript (3 years), Angular (2 years), CSS3 (10+ years), HTML 5 (10+ years), MySQL (3 years), Object Oriented Design (3 years), Front End, MVC, Illustrator (3 years), Git (1 year), Photoshop (5 years), jQuery (3 years), CSS (10+ years), Laravel (2 years), NPM (2 years), Composer (2 years), GitHub (2 years), Repositories (2 years), Sketch, Bootstrap 3, 4 (5 years), CMS (3 years) Military Service Branch: USAF Service Country: United States Rank: E3 May 1996 to November 1999 • Computer Information Systems Specialists Commendations: Marksmenship Additional Information RECENT PROJECTS  http://bikinibeanscoffee.com  http://arbormedicalpediatrics.com  http://tateesthetics.com  http://npx.life  https://pinnaclepoolsandlandscape.com   https://larsrocks.com   https://pastabrioni.com   https://stormshieldnation.com   https://keenpainting-renovations.com 