Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer - Anju Software Warminster, PA Software Engineer with 10+ years of experience in developing, designing and maintaining  software & web applications Work Experience Software Engineer Anju Software - Bristol, PA July 2015 to Present Sylogent, Newtown, PA  ? Lead Developer of an existing robust web application with a multi tenancy architecture for clients from pharmaceutical and biotech companies. Design, prototype, develop, demo,  documented and maintain existing and new functionalities. Guide members of the team, estimate tasks and troubleshoot critical issues.  ? Lead Deployment for business systems, responsible for major, minor, patch fixes  deployments. Manage source of control, responsible for merging, branching for releases  ? Assist and cooperate with QA team in testing and help write steps of reproducing of processes  ? Set up new instances for SaaS applications on continuous integration server  ? Aid in the design and architecture foundation for all applications  ? Support in documentation of SDLC  ? Implement a service oriented architecture based on an anemic domain design pattern  ? Implement inversion of control and dependency injection in a legacy code based on Castle  Windsor framework  ? Implement bootstrap UI for responsive designs  ? Set up and develop SSO integration with SAM2  ? Integrate with Microsoft OneDrive (azure) and Google Docs API for Online Editing and Co-Authoring  ? Migrated existing web apps from .net 3.0 to 4.5  ? Implemented MVC5 to ASP.Net WebForm in towards refresh architecture  ? Design and develop custom ETL tools for extracts or imports via SFTP, SMTP or API  ? Designed master API for clients in SOA and implemented Elasicsearch for rapid search in order to improve performance  o Technologies and tools: C#, MSSQL, IoC, SSIS packages, MVC5, web api, windows  services, .net remoting, webforms, saml2, oauth2, XML, ETL, Html 5, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, nunit, tsqlt, Bamboo, Logi Reports, Git, Jira .NET Developer Software Mind, Rzeszow, PL January 2013 to June 2015 Developer in a scrum team which built web intranet for a financial industry with external  integration via Windows Communication Services for Raiffeisen Bank  ? Developed new and maintained existing functionalities for web applications for the real estate  industry CoreLogic (B2B & B2C) in the international team  o Used technologies: ASP.NET 4.5, MVC 4, Inversion of control (Windsor Castle), C#, WCF, NHibernate Fluent, MsSQL, JQ, HTML 5, TortoiseSVN, TeamCity, ASP.NET, C#, VB, MsSQL,  JQ, HTML, TFS, SSRS; Web Developer Ideo, Rzeszow, PL March 2008 to December 2012 Developed and maintained websites mainly using company's CMS, WordPress, Zend and  .Net  o Used technologies: PHP, HTML, CSS, JS, JQ, Ajax, C#, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Microsoft SQL Independent Developer 2006 to 2008 Freelancer  ? Performed web programming for small clients, both on a timed contract basis as well as on a per-job basis;  ? Provided custom solutions utilizing HTML, Javascript and PHP, MySQL Education Master of Engineering in Computer Technology/Computer Systems Technology Rzeszow University of Technology 2005 to 2010 Skills .net, C#, Git, Html, Javascript, MYSQL, PHP, CSS, ASP Additional Information Skills  .NET (C#), MVC, Razor, SSO, SAML2, OAuth2, SSRS, Logi, WCF, ETL,  JavaScript, jQuery,  MsSQL, MySQL, XML, XSD, AJAX,  PostgreSQL, CSS, Bootstrap, HTML,  SSIS, LINQ, Git, TFS, PHP, SEO,  Bamboo, Jira, MS Studio