Web Designer <span class="hl">Web</span> Designer Web Designer Cleveland, OH Highly creative and Multi-talented Web Designer with over ten years of experience developing engaging and innovative digital and print designs for clients in a broad range of industries.  Broad and in-depth experience in digital asset development. Highly adept at visual strategy, web development, branding and print and new media advertising. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Designer United Church of Christ - Cleveland, OH May 2019 to Present • Create innovative design packages to elevate and differentiate branding and marketing and advertising initiatives for clients.  • Meet with client to determine marketing and design vision, scopes of work, and budgets and deliverable timeframes.  • Format designs and media for use in print and web applications; deliver production-ready graphics in HTML and CSS.  • Paginate four-color and black and white layouts, rescaled and cropped images using Photoshop, and compile client data into PDF formats; edited documents and layouts prior publication and submission to printer. Senior Designer SAIC - Albuquerque, NM September 2015 to December 2018 • Met with customers to establish design parameters, identify design problems and potential solutions.   • Design and specify user interfaces and images for both print and digital media for Design Services.  • Use technical knowledge (including layout principles, color and type relationships and platforms, Web-browser technology and versions, Javascript, and HTML, if applicable) to produce technically achievable and efficient solutions.  • Created documentation, including design strategy, best practices, and UI-element specifications. Update and write applicable documents, including policies and procedures  • Facilitated and present at design reviews; presenting story boards of user navigation, content, graphic design, and UI design elements.  • Recommended improvements in Web functionality, navigation, and UI design elements that enable users and internal business clients to achieve their goals. Digital Content Developer Signet Jewelers - Akron, OH April 2011 to August 2015 • Member of an e-commerce team that introduced responsive email templates for Kay, Jared and the Sterling Family of Jewelers.  • Participated, and volunteered to work with the IT team in charge of the R3 release to undertake Editing/Creating semantic markup for (R3) release.  • Created Kay/Jared 2-step & 3-step mockup web pages to test out a streamlined checkout experience using semantic markup (XHTML, tableless-CSS, & Javascript). Web Designer Lorain County Public Library - Lorain, OH 2008 to 2011 • Was responsible for graphic development for print and web outlets.  • Managed design and maintenance of websites, video, audio and podcast recordings of specials events and book signings.  • Improved accessibility, usability, and design of external website and internal web applications using semantic markup (XHTML, tableless-CSS, & JavaScript). Implemented Web 2.0 features: RSS, sharing, podcasting and mashups.  • Designed/created graphic images, animations, video and podcasts for website and intranet. Graphic/ Web Designer Stanley Assembly Technologies - Cleveland, OH 2003 to 2008 • Created dynamic HTML pages with JavaScript and CSS & Flash for their websites Stanley Assembly.com, Stanley Motorsports.com  • Designed and created Flash product brochure, which has increased product information requests.  • Produced graphic design materials for promotions, advertisements, brochures, catalogs, and instructional material for a variety of media outlets. Education Web Design The University of Akron - Akron, OH 2002 to 2006 B.F.A. in Design Cleveland Institute of Art - Cleveland, OH 2000 Skills Adobe CC (10+ years), Javascript, CSS, Android, MYSQL, PHP, HTML 5, Jquery, Git Awards Volunteer Award 2008-05 Friends of the Lorain Public Library volunteer of the yr '08. Donated graphic design services for group activities. Huntington Scholarship 1997-09 This was a renewing merit based graphic design scholarship at the Cleveland Institute of Art. Road runner food bank volunteer appreciation 2016-03 Helped move the design of the site to responsiveness and mobile 1st. Certifications/Licenses Adobe Flash Certificate September 2008 to September 2012 Flash MX and Flash Professional certificate Driver's License Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • Software: Adobe CC, Macromedia/Adobe: Flash Professional, 5-8 Pro (including Actionscript 2.0), Microsoft Sharepoint Server 2010, Microsoft Office 2010  • Programming/ Web: HTML/XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Twitter Bootstrap, DOM scripting(DHTML), XML, Ajax, PHP  • Database: SQL, Access