Manager, Digital Product Management Manager, Digital Product Management Manager, Digital Product Management - Capital One Seattle, WA Work Experience Manager, Digital Product Management Capital One - Seattle, WA 2015 to Present Leader in successful product delivery by defining and executing on the needs of stakeholders - the customer, the business, and IT, attained buy-in, timely escalations, and supporting the release process during each iterative feature rollout.    • Led iOS, Android and web development teams; improving core features on existing applications  and launched a new feature with 42% adoption that was projected to improve the financial future of our customers.  • Drove product vision leading user experience design teams. Defined scope and priority using  cutting-edge brainstorming strategies, collaboration, signal attained from user research  interviews, and stakeholder feedback.  • Served as an effective liaison between business and development teams. Delivered status updates  to the business through video demos, launch announcements, weekly business reviews and email  plus slack communications.  • Optimized design and technology backlogs to align company priorities with stakeholder  objectives, including assessing client needs and team velocity to ensure satisfaction.  • Collaborating closely with internal / external partners to optimize processes and further the go- to-market strategy and product adoption goals. Business Systems Analyst Capital One Investing - Seattle, WA 2013 to 2015 Devised the business scope and corresponding technical solutions for project initiatives and enhancements to the legacy websites. Led workshops and story maturation sessions with stakeholders,  cross-functional teams and vendors. Fostered collaboration across the organization.    • Improved system overviews, workflows, use cases and business process documentation methods  • Resolved issues that prevented the growth of Scrum/Kanban team velocity  • Enhanced and streamlined the existing framework by evaluating both new and existing system  functionality to optimize usability Web Developer/Systems Analyst Lockheed Martin - Richland, WA 2009 to 2013 Directed application, database, training courses and website development for 70 departments and programs within CH2M HILL. Wrote system design documentation, user guides, test plans and project  management plans.  • Designed various web applications in Photoshop, then coded with HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Maintained a 1K user time recording system for local contract workers Web Coordinator / Student Technology Consultant Washington State University-Student Computing Services - Pullman, WA 2007 to 2008 Enriched multiple websites for campus organizations, as well as several Wiki sites. Delivered significant  support to various departmental offices, leading and controlling complex software development and the lifecycle process.  • Met with departmental liaisons and team members to discuss ideas, best practices, as well as to gather requirements for new projects.  • Designed websites for organizations throughout Washington State University  • Served as an instructor in a Cougar Quest class focused on Photoshop, Dreamweaver and basic HTML Education Bachelor of Arts in Business Administration Washington State University Skills Change management, Quantitative, Quantitative analysis, Documentation, Training, Strategic planning, Business requirements, Work flow, Architecture, Agile, Product Development, Product Management Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/Briana-DPM Additional Information Core Competencies    • Product Definition  • Qualitative & Quantitative Analysis  • Collaborative Decision Making  • Strategic Planning & Tactical Execution  • Dependency Management  • Scalable Service-Oriented Architecture  • Customer Focus  • Business Requirements Documentation  • Business Processes & Work Flow Design  • Teambuilding & End-User Training  • Conflict & Change Management  • Client/Vendor Relations Management