Sales Representative Sales Representative Encinitas, CA Enthusiastic Sales and Customer Service professional with expertise in communication and  negotiating. Driven to provide superior quality customer service. Innovative in leveraging extensive  knowledge of products and services as well as creating solutions for customers to drive loyalty,  retention and revenue. Highly adept at training, managing, coaching and mentoring sales and  customer service associates with talent for interacting with staff at all levels of organization and  public. Work Experience Sales Representative Sungrade Solar - Irvine, CA March 2019 to May 2019 • Demonstrated products and specific features at customer locations and special events.  • Conducted on-site product demonstrations to highlight features, answer customer questions and redirect concerns toward positive aspects.  • Adapted sales techniques to specific clients and promoted products based on individualized  • client needs.  • Performed cold-calling and follow-ups with leads to secure new revenue.  • Used consultative sales approach to understand customer needs and recommend relevant  • offerings.  • Closed over 220k Solar Deals in under 3 months  • Presented proposals at Client-Site  • Spent 40% of work time traveling to connect with customers and demonstrate products.  • Utilized professional sales techniques to persuasively communicate with clients.  • Used SalesForce to maintain company database with essential account and sales information. Digital Marketing Intern Legal Resource Center - Vista, CA October 2018 to December 2018 • Stayed updated with latest marketing concepts and techniques.  • Wrote engaging and successful marketing, advertising and website copy. IT & Web Developer South Dade Toyota - Homestead, FL June 2016 to October 2018 • Resolved issues and escalated problems with knowledgeable support and quality service.  • Removed and replaced malfunctioning components to correct hardware problems.  • Configured hardware, devices and software to set up work stations for employees.  • Responded to support requests from end users and patiently walked individuals through basic  • troubleshooting tasks. Education High School Diploma Coral Gables Senior High School Adult Education - Coral Gables, FL Skills Prospecting, Cold calling, Customer service, Qualifying Leads, Appointment Setter, Presentation Skills, Overcoming Objections Certifications/Licenses Marketing Psychology Present Local SEO by Lynda.com Present B2B Marketing by Lynda.com Present Digital Marketing by Udacity Present Marketing Foundations by Lynda.com Present Additional Information Digital Marketing Sales  • Often Contacted existing customers to up-sell them on other digital marketing services  • Often Calling clients at least once a month to get feedback on their new website