Project Management Project Management Digital Project Management Brentwood, CA Work Experience Project Management via Aquent - San Ramon, CA 2018 to Present Website Production and Editing  Web Producer/Project Manager Senior UX Web Producer/ Web Designer BIO-RAD LABORATORIES, INC - Hercules, CA 2008 to 2018 BACHELOR OF FINE ARTS - Radio Produced bio-rad.com in 10 languages and 7 regions. Worked with and Television, University of Arizona, product managers and production teams on 400+ projects per year. I also got  Tucson, AZ time-sensitive corporate material online on time. I started as a contract web  designer doing simple tasks and moved on to produce high-level  complex projects. Recruited and managed two Production Specialists and LANOISSEFORP trained other staff. Other key projects:  TNEMPOLEVED  Worked with developers to Implement workarounds so Human-Computer Interaction, different customers would be presented with specialized content, and  Stanford University (via Coursera) the modular content could be easily updated by others.  Responsive Web Design - Udacity In 2017, led a winning team for the annual "Innovathon", proposing a Scrum Certification Prep (Agile YouTube station and social media campaign for tutorials for age 18-34.  Scrum Training) - Udemy Held key production role in two technical upgrades.  Writing for the Web - various in- person and online Owner/ Web Designer/ Developer MOSS WEB PRODUCTIONS 2003 to 2012 Created web sites from concept to deployment and maintenance for small  companies. Wrote strategy proposals for prospective clients and creative  TCATNOC briefs and SOWs. Managed the production process and external vendors on time and on budget. Wrote and edited content and designed templates and  (925) 305-6040 wireframes. Developed code and final QA. Setup the site on designated host  kmoss@mosswebpro.com and maintained the host relationship. Trained users on CMS, including Drupal  linkedin.com/in/mosswebpro and WordPress. Portfolio: mosswebpro.com/portfolio.  www.mosswebpro.com  ECNEIREPXE TNAVELER REHTO As EA's first Internet Project Specialist PEOPLESOFT, INC - Pleasanton, CA 2001 to 2002 Pleasanton, CA  Web Producer  Created and maintained Financials, Customer Services and Enterprise Service  Automation product sites. Wrote and edited home page stories. Provided  strategic roadmaps, defined KPIs, and Webtrends metrics.  Supported new products and campaigns on the web, collaborating with product marketing, direct response, design and development.  Developed standards for online demos in HTML and Flash bringing  production in house and reducing costs  Migrated website to a new design and content management system.    NETSCAPE COMMUNICATIONS  Producer  I managed production for Netscape Community products. I maintained  schedules for design, engineering and QA, and communication between Netscape and its partners for launch and maintenance. Highlights:  Led a site-wide redesign and cleanup, working with 16+ channels.  Launched Message Boards with design, marketing, and engineering.  Managed marketing, design and engineering to launch Netscape Instant  Messenger 3.0 and 4.0.  Launched Chat as the flagship Netscape Community product, with AIM- based chat.  Launched the co-branded Net2Phone 1.0 and 2.0, managing the design and QA, and edited 50+ support/FAQ pages.  Worked with design and partners' marketing, engineering teams, and  usability testing to launch Netscape Calendar. I then worked with the AOL core technology team to retool the product as WebCalendar.    MAXIS/ELECTRONIC ARTS, INC, Internet Project Manager  I managed the site production for Maxis, then EA Games, and Bullfrog.  Worked with product managers and game producers to obtain content, determine project scopes, write creative briefs, and manage schedules for  marketing, design and engineering:  With limited resources, created the Maxis/SimCity web sites which garnered  press and industry awards.  Maintained relationships with on-line magazines, commercial services, and newsgroups.  Developed activity and revenue reports, analyzing product and industry  trends.  Within one year, the Maxis Store's revenue was 26% of total direct sales and  4% of total sales, exceeding its goal by 25%.  As EA's first Internet Project Specialist, developed a scheduling process that  kept production on track.  Developed a metrics reporting system, training other Project Managers on the process.  Started EA Extra, an e-mail to 100K+ customers.  Created 12 sites, including the 357-page Maxis site redesign, which had an  18% visitor increase in two months. Links http://mosswebpro.com/portfolio Assessments Project Management Skills: Time Management — Proficient August 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/b7-axclnynw2kl-e Critical Thinking — Proficient August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dtgos3peydk3tmql Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.