WordPress web developer API integration WordPress <span class="hl">web</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> API integration WordPress Developer Mesquite, TX A self-taught, motivated, and experienced individual is seeking a WordPress web development content opportunity. Hands-on technical and leadership experience in small, medium, and large organizations supporting 7x24 operations, Vendor Management, Inventory control/audit, as well as management of both internal employees and remotely based Contractors supporting custom developed the Vendor based Software installations. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience WordPress web developer API integration Tire20 - Dallas, TX April 2016 to Present Developed wordpress based website, to support an online based tire business Including   • Designed and implemented an online Tire store using Wordpress with WooCommerce merchant services supporting over 50k products.  • Designed and implemented an automated data load using spreadsheets and CSV files to support products and pricing changes for over 50k products.  • Worked with the server host contractor to define and build required resources to support large data volumes.   • Designed and implemented test plan working with vendors to ensure end to end system billing data integrity. Head of Operations Mechanics R Mobile 2008 to 2016 * Built client base from 50 to over 2500 in an eight-year period through traditional advertising as well as Social Media and Web-based marketing techniques.  * Managed daily operations in a 7x24 environment, including technician workflow from Customer call to post job warranty support, wholesale suppliers/contractual agreements, inventory control, and a just-in-time based parts delivery system.  * Designed and led Contractor development of MS SQL server based Web application utilizing Wordpress with data import/exports to generate job billing totals and job documentation. Application supported internal administration of job work flow from initial customer call to technician job assignment, job completion, billing data export, plus customer follow-up and feedback.  * Responsible for Vendor/Supplier agreements, Vendor Software, and 7x24 System availability. Managed remotely based technical personnel to resolve Software and data integrity issues. Education yes Graduate N. Mesquite High School Mesquite - Mesquite, TX August 1997 to May 2001 Skills .NET (Less than 1 year), ANDROID (9 years), Wordpress, Word Press, Website, MYSQL SERVER (7 years), Wordpress (7 years), Spreadsheets (8 years), Google Analytics (5 years), Google Docs (5 years), Google Adwords (4 years), Database Management (7 years), Vendor Relations (9 years), Vendor Management (9 years), Database Management (7 years), Editing (9 years), HTML (5 years), Inventory Management (7 years), Java (6 years), Linux (7 years), Marketing (9 years), New Business Development (7 years), Operations Management (7 years), Project Management (10+ years), Publisher (3 years), Public Speaking (4 years), Project Management (6 years), MySQL, PHP Links https://www.facebook.com/Mechanics-R-Mobile-133368056734745/ Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  WooCommerce integration Wordpress, wordpress plug, wordpress graphic design, wordpress themes, excel spreadsheets, wordpress bulk data import and exports. Merchant payment service integration including Amazon aws, paypal, and  square. Wordpress backup and restores and all aspects of site maintenance. Configured site emails setup and support. Search engine optimisation, and social media business page with storefront integration.