Publisher/Owner Publisher/Owner Marketing Strategist New York, NY For the last 20 years I’ve managed and produced marketing and outreach programs across a wide variety of businesses and organizations. Working largely with company owners and CEOs, I’ve branded, positioned, and directed projects in all areas of promotion, from traditional advertising to social media strategy. From Business Week Online to Tekserve, I’ve built compelling messaging across a range of mediums that have often resulted in extraordinary growth.    My strength comes from my cross-field expertise and my knowledge of how each element of promotion connects with the project as a whole. As most companies are diversifying their approach to marketing and outreach, my job is always to bring it back to a unified position of strength, clarity, and consistency. Social media needs to work with print, and retail needs to work with business to business. Advertising must be grounded in research, and every point of consumer impact should be clearly speaking the same voice.    At the end of the day, I find the greatest joy in helping my clients build the types of businesses they most want to run. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Publisher/Owner QNY Press, Publisher 2013 to Present • Published over 70 titles across multiple genres  • Increased sales by 200% after three years of operations  • Oversaw all aspects of operations including sales, marketing, branding, outreach, and publicity. Art Director MEIER - New York, NY 2003 to 2016 • Managed all aspects of marketing, including brand development, print and web advertising, and production of social campaigns and podcasts, resulting in significant traffic and exposure along with millions of dollars of revenue.  • Produced websites, podcasts, e-books, print books, and blogs for a wide range of clients from Tekserve to Penguin Random House.  • Managed a team of freelancers on all aspects of client work including photographers, publicists, coders, writers, and merchandisers. Partner/Founder Graphyte Design LLC - New York, NY 1999 to 2012 • Co-Founded the agency, brought in business, and executed marketing strategy for a wide range of clients from Columbia University to Kind Snacks.  • Built multi-year relationships with clients from local retailers to Ivy League Universities  • Produced more than twenty-five websites along with hundreds of print pieces and identity packages, ranging from print books to annual reports. Web Developer Business Week Online 1999 to 2001 Education Bachelor's Skills Photoshop (10+ years), Indesign (10+ years), Publishing (8 years), Blogging (10+ years), Wodpress (8 years), HTML/CSS (10+ years), Marketing (10+ years), ebook creation (8 years), Social Media Management (10+ years), Sales, Organizational Skills Links http://www.btgoodwin.com https://www.linkedin.com/in/ben-goodwin-0127194/