Sr. Ruby on rails Developer Sr. Ruby on rails <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Ruby on rails Developer Philadelphia, PA ? Over 9+ Experience in Ruby developer on large-sc websites leveraging Ruby on Rails-based platform via decoration, extensive use of view models, and additional customer based customizations.  ? Adhering to a workflow process that emphasizes Test Created and maintained an extensive SQL based vendor database intended to increase compliance with Federal regulation and ease-of-use for end users.  ? Maintained extensive vendor database while regularly cross referencing against purchases being made in order to better guarantee.  ? Appropriate software suite to keep the Exchange in compliance.  ? Ruby developer on large-scale eCommerce websites leveraging Weblinc's proprietary  Ruby on Rails-based platform via decoration, extensive use of view models, and additional customer based customizations.  ? workflow process that emphasizes Test Driven Development and rigorous code reviews primarily using Stash and Jira Assisted in design of integration processes used to convert legacy users & order data in order to guarantee conformity with Weblinc's MongoDB database.  ? Built and consumed API endpoints to complete 3rd party system integration while reducing the need for customer API calls by half Responsible for customizing and implementing Rails Internationalizat  ? Empowerment curriculum for student success despite limited resources Coached grade group teachers on ways to effectively implement new methods and technologies into their curriculum.  ? Developed relationships with parents and guardians of 30+ students to build a stronger classroom community, highlight student successes, and help parents address student needs and challenges.  ? Hacked existing school technology to build homemade smartboards for three classrooms using cell phones.  ? Worked software suite to keep the Exchange in compliance with Sarbanes Oxley while also modernizing aging record keeping systems Facilitated company-wide training in custom purchasing software.  ? Trained NSDQ employees in the use and maintenance of purchasing system during acquisition process  ? Localization framework for Weblinc's first international client.  ? Refactored consumer review gem to increase performance and to increase compatibility with both Weblinc platform and customers website Mapped and documented.  ? WebLinc's propriety eCommerce platform as part of a larger initiative to improve readability of code base. curriculum implemented for the fifth and sixth grades  ? Modifying regularly based on student and teacher feedback Strong focus on redesigning existing, and sharing. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Ruby on rails Developer Walmart - Bentonville, AR February 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Good understanding in Angular.js, Ember.js, Jasmine, Karma, Backbone.js, React.js, MyBatis, require.js, node.js framework concepts and Responsive Design.  ? Design and development of business applications in C++ using STL, MFC, WxWidgets, COM, ActiveX, Win32, ODBC, Pervasive Btrieve, MySQL database schema, PCI.  ? Development of new applications using Ruby on Rails (RoR) Using GitHub.  ? Perform system configuration and update technical documentation tasks.  ? Assist in developing test plans, conducting system tests, documenting and analyzing performance data.  ? Perform configuration management, risk analysis, contingency planning and work with designated security staff to conduct security reviews and audits.  ? Manage Projects resources including Plan, schedule, and track project deliverables while conduct user acceptance testing and using Agile methodologies for fast delivery.  ? Developing, designing, and writing ColdFusion MX9 code for various software applications for HUD users.  ? Development of new features and products including the development of online applications, user interface logins, etc.  ? Analyze customer requirements and implement changes to various web-based applications systems.  ? Assist in developing test plans, conducting system tests, documenting and analyzing performance data.  ? Perform configuration management, risk analysis, contingency planning and work with designated security staff to conduct security reviews and audits.  ? Manage team expectation and evaluate resources based on needs and availabilities  ? Provide interviews matrix questions and work with HR to identify right candidates  ? Set Matrix and performance requirement for each developer.  ? Developed high-performance distributed queueing system. Scala, Redis, Akka, closure, MQ messaging, Json  ? Development of applications using Ruby on Rails (RoR), and Jruby.  ? Designed and Implemented plug in tools for Search Appliance to extract data from Google Indexer and used BigQuery and Dremel tools.  ? Develop applications using GITHUB repository and Bamboo deployment manager  ? Perform system configuration and update technical documentation tasks  ? Experienced in providing security to Hadoop cluster with Kerberos and integration with LDAP/AD at Enterprise level.  ? Developed a few Restful Micro services using Spring Security, Spring Rest and Used Apache Kafka for messaging in order to produce and consume messages between Micro Services and Rest API  ? Assist in developing test plans, conducting system tests, documenting and analyzing performance data.  ? Hands on experience in building Microservice architecture and containerization with Spring Boot and docker  ? Perform configuration management, risk analysis, contingency planning and work with designated security staff to conduct security reviews and audits.  ? Manage Projects resources including Plan, schedule, and track project deliverables while conduct user acceptance testing and using Agile methodologies for fast delivery.  ? Developing, designing, and writing ColdFusion MX9 code for various software applications for HUD users.  ? Development of new features and products including the development of online applications, user interface logins, etc.  ? Analyze customer requirements and implement changes to various web-based applications systems.  ? Served as function System Team Lead.  Environment: Ruby on Rails, Angular.js, Ember.js, Jasmine, Karma, Backbone.js, React.js, MyBatis, GitHub, require.js, node.js, STL, MFC, WxWidgets, ASP.Net, PHP, COM, ActiveX, Win32, ODBC, Pervasive Btrieve, Agile, MySQL, Scala, Redis, Akka, closure, MQ messaging, Json, Rest API, Spring Boot, docker, HUD. Sr. Ruby on rails Developer Sprint Corporation - Overland Park, KS September 2015 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Development of new applications using Ruby on Rails (RoR) Using GitHub.  ? Subject matter expert during candidate's interviews, provided technical support during new member on boarding,  ? Facilitated the development of technical on-boarding documentation for the technical team member.  ? Took part in the client's bi-weekly Developer calls.  ? Develop training programs and materials and design methods including manuals, reference materials, and application screen shots for Business owners, clients and users.  ? Developing enhancements for software applications Unit & integration testing application code using ASP.Net, ASP, SQL, and Oracle.  ? Developing, designing, and writing ColdFusion MX9, ASP, and PHP codes for various software applications for Intranet system users using Dolphin as framework.  ? Analyze customer requirements and implement changes to a web-based content management system  ? SharePoint Designer Application.  ? Manages development of new features and products including the development of online applications, user interface logins  ? Detail-oriented and demonstrates problem solving and troubleshooting skills.  ? Designed, programmed, coded, and debugged all online web-based application & software development.  ? Designed, developed, implemented, enhanced and operated information systems, hardware and software.  ? Developed, enhanced, tested, and debugged software applications  ? Developed expertise in ColdFusion MX, ASP, HTML, JavaScript, MS SQL, and CSS.  ? Designed several websites on freelance basis during this time period, including  ? Perform system configuration and update technical documentation tasks  ? Created a REST API using Node.js to store data in a RethinkDB database.  ? Assist in developing test plans, conducting system tests, documenting and analyzing performance data  ? Developed the backend using Java Spring, MySQL, RabbitMQ, HAProxy, NginX and Python.  ? Perform configuration management, risk analysis, contingency planning and work with designated security staff to conduct security reviews and audits.  ? Designed and developed the web applications and interfaces using Ruby on Rails and AJAX, Worked on the logs page for managing and analyzing data.  ? Developing, designing, and writing ColdFusion MX9 code for various software applications for DHS users using Agile methodologies (2 weeks sprints)  ? Development of new features and products including the development of online applications, user interface logins, etc.  ? POC's with the Confluent Schema Registry, Rest Proxy, Kafka Connectors for Cassandra and HDFS Hadoop  ? Analyze customer requirements and implement changes to various web-based applications systems  ? working on Big Data and related technologies and enabling our clients to handle their various Big Data related challenges  ? Development of new applications using Ruby on Rails (RoR)  ? Participated on evaluating migration of existing Google BigQuery data to AWS Athena considering volume consumption discount and secured VPC - VPN settings.  ? Attended & completed 8 weeks Ruby on Rails training by GMU  ? Manage Projects resources including Plan, schedule, and track project deliverables while conduct user acceptance testing and using Agile methodologies for fast delivery.  ? Managed delivery execution of DevOps teams with technical leadership to modernize consumer banking and finance business operations via distributed systems development on Microservices architecture for high availability & scalability.  ? Served as function Technical Team Lead assisted technical team with task assignments, served as technical  ? Deployed Docker Engines in Virtualized Platforms for containerization of multiple apps.  Environment: Ruby on Rails, Agile, MySQL, Scala, Redis, Akka, closure, MQ messaging, Json, BigQuery, Dremel, LDAP/AD, Rest API, Spring Boot, docker, HUD, Angular.js, Ember.js, Jasmine, Karma, Backbone.js, React.js, MyBatis, GitHub, require.js, node.js, STL, MFC, WxWidgets. Rails Developer Ruby - Charlotte, NC January 2013 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Developed automation test using Ruby, Jruby, Watir-Rspec for Browser testing, and Cucumber in Ruby for SLT.  ? Developed website using Ruby on Rails on Unix/Linux operating system, backed by MySQL, Oracle and Mongo db.  ? Responsible for writing code in Object Oriented Programming supported by Ruby on Rails in Agile SCRUM environment.  ? Implemented Complex data structures (Sorting, Searching, Stack, Queue, and Link List) for Ruby programming as per client specifications.  ? Used Rails , AJAX, JSON, jQuery, Node JS and Angular JS to design the front end of the application. Back end of the application is developed mainly using Active Records.  ? Ruby on Rails on Linux operating system, backed by Capistrano and PostgreSQL to automate and ease the deployment process on Phusion Passenger server. RJS, YAML and Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to design web pages.  ? Ruby on Rails, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming is used to develop client based features and applications.  ? Implementation of Rails back-end for Case Manager on Linux environment.  ? Involved in developing and implementation of the web application using Ruby on Rails.  ? Working with Ruby gems such as ruby-pg for Oracle- PostGRE-SQL  ? Wrote backend programming in Ruby on Rails.  ? Database modeling and design. Involved in developing and implementation of the web application using Ruby on Rails.  ? Implementing ROR upgrades and patches and publishing Ruby Gems. Using Ruby Gems.  ? Wrote and implemented load scripts for transition of the legacy data from a Siebel (Oracle CRM) database to a newly-designed PostgreSQL/Linux database server.  ? Wrote various interfaces to the management system in Ruby on Rails  ? Developed and configured the Java beans using Struts MVC and Hibernate.  ? Leading JavaScript Frameworks Team like Angular.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, Node.js.  ? Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as JavaScript, jQuery, backbone.js, Node.js AngularJS and Bootstrap.js - Using Subversion for version control.  ? Wrote Java programs, performed builds, monitored DB2 data and ran SQL.  ? Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using Spring, MongoDB, Apache CXF, and JAX-RS.  ? Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application.  ? OOP in PHP to extend or update functionalities. The project uses MySQL as the database.  ? Develop various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux library.  ? Developed and tested many features in an AGILE environment-using Ruby on Rails, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and Bootstrap.  ? Lead, Designed and Developed SOA enterprise system using Oracle SOA Suite  ? Involved in Development of the application Using J2EE Technologies (Servlets, JSP, EJB, JSF, Struts).  ? Developed the base framework using Java, JSP, Struts, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Oracle and MS SQL Server.  ? Developed SQL queries with PHP Doctrine and Propel to create, retrieve and update data and programming SQL sentences based on CRUD.  ? Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, Sencha, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  ? Creation of REST WebServices for the management of data using Apache CXF (JAX-RS).  ? Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVC (Model View Controller) architecture of Rails framework and Ruby conducting code reviews.  ? Utilized Agile Methodology/Scrum (SDLC) to managed projects and team.  ? Responsible in configuring and setting-up Apache Tomcat/Spring-TC Server for the development phase.  ? Developed HTML, CSS, Javascript and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  ? Developed a Web Application using Java with the Google Web ToolkitAPI with PostgreSql.    Environment: Ruby on Rails, Rspec, Redis, HTML, CSS, XML, React.JS, JavaScript, PostgreSQL, Node.js, JSON, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Java, DB2, PL/SQL, JDBC, Oracle, MySQL, Apache CXF, SOAP, Web Services, REST, Eclipse, Git, Github, Junit, Agile, Scrum Web Developer IBM - Armonk, NY July 2010 to January 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Developed GUI screens for XTT & LD application using JSP, HTML and CSS.  ? Development UI modules using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  ? Extensive experience in developing Ruby Gems and scripting using Ruby Core, jruby and Ruby Standard Libraries.  ? Proficient in design and implemented intranet applications using Ruby on Rails and PostgreSQL on Heroku Cloud Packages and Triggers on databases like MySQL, PostgreSQL and Oracle.  ? Developed application in agile development methodology using Ruby on Rails, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, CSS BDD and pair based programming.  ? Designed the front end of the application using Rails, CSS, HTML, jQuery and JSON.  ? Worked with bash, powershell and ruby scripting. Strong Object oriented development experience in Javascript, Ruby and Python.  ? Development using Ruby On Rails, Angular JS, Elastic Search, TDD  ? Developed automation test using Ruby, JRuby, Rspec Watir for Browser testing, Cucumber in Ruby for SLT  ? Created data validation scripts for data validation (Ruby).  ? Created blog posting tool using Ruby on Rails.  ? Developed internationalization testing tools, using Ruby, Python and Visual Basic.  ? Coded model level validation using Ruby programming with emphasis in web security.  ? Front end expertise using HTML and CSS, and also managing Ruby on Rails layouts and views.  ? Wrote JavaScript functions to get Dynamic data and Client side validation.  ? Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the Javascript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  ? Implemented a Node.js server to manage authentication.  ? Created Node.js middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework Worked with JSON objects and JavaScript and JQuery intensively to create interactive web pages.  ? Implemented web based front-end using HTML, CSS, JQuery, and AngularJS  ? Involved in developing the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  ? Set up the deployment environment on Web Logic Developed system preferences UI screens using JSP and HTML.  ? Developed web Components using JSP, Servlets and Server side components using EJB under J2EE Environment.  ? Rich UI development experience and well versed in client side technologies like AngularJS, jQuery, BackBone.js, Google Widget Toolkit, Sencha UI  ? Worked in Java, J2EE, XSL, XML, Oracle, DB2, Struts, spring, Hibernate, REST Web services, Model driven architecture and software configuration management tools.  ? Developed HTML, Swing and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  ? Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, Angularjs, JQuery and REST Services  ? Designed and implemented UI layer using JSP, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, JSON, XML, XHTML, XSL, XSLT, XSL-FO and business logic using Servlets, JSP, EJBs and J2EE framework.  ? Used Backbonejs, Node.js, Bootstrap and other javascript libraries to create intuitive and rich Single Page Applications.  ? Used JQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  ? Developed Dash-Board to monitor and report Cache Coherence Servers.  ? Integrate the ExtJs/Sencha framework with Oracle BPM.  ? Prepared statements are used for communication Sql database  ? Involved in developing custom taglibs, JSP, EJB's, Portlets and DB2 - stored procedures.  ? Involved in Requirement analysis, design and Implementation applying the Water fall model.  ? Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  ? Integrate the Oracle BPM with the Spring Framework in the enterprise layer.  ? Involved in packaging, deployment and upgrade of different modules of SAS on JBoss App Server. VB code Analysis and Sybase store procedure converted into SQL.  Environment: Rspec, Ruby, Rails, Redis, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Ajax, JSON, PostgreSQL, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Apache Axis, WSDL, Netbeans, JBOSS, Mercurial, Coherence, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, Ant, XML, Jira, Swing, Cognos Software Developer TD Bank - Cherry Hill, NJ September 2008 to June 2010 Responsibilities:  ? Developed Java Server Pages (JSP) for presentation layer using Struts Also client side validations using Struts Validator framework/ JavaScript.  ? Extensively used EJB and various J2EE (JSP/EJB/JMS) component for the implementation of the modules.  ? Involved in requirement gathering, writing technical proposals, planning, estimation, architecture and high level / low level design using Rational Rose and UML  ? Extensively used Struts supporting the MVC architecture of the product interacting with the JSP/Servlet/Tag libraries for the UI component.  ? Involved in the SOA implementation using Axis/WebLogic web service framework for different product integrations and Web Service interfaces using SOAP.  ? Extensively used XSD for validations of XML transfer to the different Web Services.  ? Used JMS / MQ series for transferring messages between different components using the JMS/Mail API framework.  ? Used JBuilder IDE use for the development life cycle of the project.  ? Deployed the application and tested on WebLogic Application Server.  ? Each module was designed as a separate service interacting as Web services between each other.  ? Used SVN as configuration management tool.  ? Deployed the application and tested on JBoss Application Server.  ? Eclipse IDE use for the development life cycle of the project.  ? Used Database Oracle for the persistence layer.  ? Written unit testing of various components with JUnit framework.  ? Development in Java through IntelliJ, Eclipse Java IDE.  ? Wrote ANT scripts to build application binaries JAR, WAR and EAR files.  ? Used Log4j for logging the application log of the running system to trace the errors  Environment: Java, JSP, Servlet, Struts, AJAX, JDBC, EJB, XML, XSL, JMS, MQ Series, Oracle, WebLogic, Ant, Axis &JBuilder, Win-XP, EJB, ANT, Eclipse, Weblogic, UML. Education Bachelor's Skills Javascript, Rspec, Json, Jquery Certifications/Licenses Driver's License