Application Developer Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Application Developer - Court of Public Opinion LLC West Hollywood, CA Highly astute Web Developer with a knack for cultivating long-term relationships with  company clients. True analyzer of trends, knowledgeable in social media and online  marketing. Seeking position with company where key attributes like hard work and  dedication are recognized. Bilingual: English/Spanish Work Experience Application Developer Court of Public Opinion LLC - Sherman Oaks, CA March 2013 to Present Used a variety of technologies, including PHP, HTML5, JavaScript, MySQL, and Joomla to create new web applications for Attorneys, Judges, Jurors, and Administrators.  ? Wrote new code for data-driven applications such as CoPO's verdict form generator with all current Judicial Council of California Civil Jury Instructions and their elements. Created  a live and online Jury selection web app, remote Juror interface including multi-angle  selectable videos with three video sync, timed exhibits, notes and deliberation chat, fully automated workflow with messaging, billing and payment system for services. Coded  data driven, animated verdict result charts based on Juror demographics.  ? Designed customized website template, company logo, icons, and all printed materials.  ? Implemented online marketing campaign, resulting in over 2000 pre-qualified juror user  accounts.  ? Created company projects app used to handle all aspects of the Nation's Largest Trial  Lawyer Convention hosted by CAALA, the Consumer Attorneys Association of Los Angeles  held at The Wynn, Las Vegas. Responsible for premium booth design, setup, live  presentation, product video creation, user kiosk design and coding, marketing  advertisements, promotional items, all printed materials, logistics for travel, shipping, and warehousing. Technical Support, Web Development, Recording Engineering and Installation Audio Perception Inc - Burbank, CA May 2008 to Present AudioPerception.com - Burbank, California | 05/2008 - Current    ? Explained technology-related details in easy-to-understand terms to individuals from all  walks of life and skill levels.  ? Developed and supported the company's online consignment program and accounting  app with over $250,000 gross sales to date.  ? Most recently designed the company's online store. Automated the import of product  pricing, description, and image data from a custom excel workbook containing all  manufacturer's authorized dealer product pricing for thousands of items.  ? Designed and updated all site product and services banners and animations.  ? Developed 3 company websites. audioperception.com - main site,  audioperceptionpost.com - audio post, audioperceptionmusic.com - music licensing.  ? Set up new desktop systems and configured laptops for clients and incoming employees,  loading required software and server permissions.  ? Developed a robust online knowledge base for end users.  ? Developed, implemented and improved company data recovery plan.  ? Disassembled computer systems to troubleshoot and resolve hardware issues.  ? Consulted via telephone to understand user problems, run through testing scripts and ask  probing questions to locate root causes.  ? Created vulnerability patches on web servers to prevent possible threats from penetrating  networks. Independent Web Developer and Customer Support Services Hollywood Tech Support - West Hollywood, CA May 2005 to Present Provided outstanding technical support services to new and long-standing customers by attending closely to concerns and developing solutions.  ? Installed, tested and serviced PC/Mac networks, ensuring that they functioned correctly.  ? Installed and configured hardware and software for PC and Mac.  ? Built and managed e-commerce, music licensing, legal, medical, and personal websites.  ? Modified website templates, plugins, and components to clients specifications.  ? Designed custom scripting to accelerate data entry, automate reports, and client billing.  ? Developed an Audio/Video collaboration web app named Cue Response for TV music  licensing clients.  ? Wrote, produced, recorded, and mixed four original music tracks licensed by MTV. Education High school or equivalent Skills Bootstrap (Less than 1 year), JavaScript (6 years), Mac (10+ years), MySQL (6 years), PHP (6 years), jQuery (6 years), HTML 5 (4 years), CSS (6 years), Android (3 years), HTML (6 years), SQL (6 years), XML, Sql Server, Linux