Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Placerville, CA I have been actively involved in programming, web development, and system administration for almost two decades. For about 10 years, I have been working with a small team of developers on a variety of interesting projects. The `Home Energy Saver` web applications which compute the energy efficiency of a structure and makes suggestions for improvements among other things. These GUI and API services were developed in association with Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory and the Department of Energy. In addition, I have worked on various e-commerce platforms (https://coedition.com, https://join-eby.com, and https://venue.com) using custom php e-commerce frameworks, Magento 2, and creating back end Laravel services which interface with Shopify. Previously, I have built advertising solutions and tools in LAMP environments. With many years of Linux system administration experience and well over a decade on the desktop; I am comfortable working in any Linux environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer BigHead Technology - Remote 2010 to Present 100% remote contract developer working on a wide variety of projects, frameworks, and technologies     ? Working closely with Lawrence Berkeley National Labs and a small team of BigHead developers through the development life cycle to create HES, HES Scoring Tool, and an API used by assorted third-parties.     ? Implemented GUI and API for a large home energy efficiency calculation engine. Tasks included code design/development, database development and migrations, testing/debugging, and production deployment.     ? Site overhauls like migrating from ZendFramework to CodeIgniter and project completion hand off to in-house development teams.     ? Front and back-end development for a high traffic e-commerce sites with assigned tasks ranging from front to back end development, Admin console tools, and automated command-line console scripts to handle optimization and caching.     ? Customization and development in Magento1 and Magento2 in Docker.     ? Ported a Perl EDI (Electronic Data Interchange) module ASCX12 to PHP and integrated with E-commerce sites for creating and transmitting Purchase Orders, Tracking Information, Acknowledgements, and Inventory management which has been integrated with Magento 2 and Shopify.          Owner NeoVetta Web Development 2008 to Present Created and launched a profitable subscription based social networking site with over 5000 members.    ? Co-authored and marketed a successful eBook sold through on our website and by affiliate marketers.    ? Developed and deployed small business websites for customers.    ? Created and implemented unique PHP modules that improved company productivity and increased revenue.    ? Provided customers with custom programming involving Joomla/Wordpress module manipulation, click tracking, database cleanup and manipulation, etc.    ? Applied conceptual topics and developed working code and techniques for the purpose of search engine  optimization.    ? Created and optimized advertising campaigns that have shown monthly growth in excess of 44%. System Administrator Investors Network 2005 to 2009 ? Served as System Administrator and desktop support technician for 30+ employees utilizing Windows Server 2003 and Sonic Wall.    ? Designed and implemented software which automated the generation of "free" mortgage leads for the company by mining data from a popular website.    ? Provided reliable system maintenance, computer hardware/software upgrades, and on call emergency repairs.    ? Administrator for '59' VOIP telemarketing systems; VOIP office phone support and troubleshooting.    ? A proven team player supporting the company in any way necessary including and beyond the job description of System Administrator. Student Scientist / Engineer NASA Ames Research Center 2000 to 2004 ? Developed object oriented Perl, user friendly graphical user interfaces, and robust shell scripts that operate efficiently in heterogeneous super-computing environments.    ? Attained NASA approved certification to become a Lead System Administrator and maintained workgroup Linux systems.    ? Primary point of contact for customer questions concerning: installation, training, and configuration.    ? Assisted in the development of ScyFlow, a project that utilized a directed graph interface which allowed scientists to schedule and coordinate the processing of raw data in heterogeneous environments.    ? Contributing author on all published technical reports produced by the workgroup.    ? Consistently performed beyond expectation and received excellent marks on all reviews.    ? Received Employee Recognition Award for "The innovative design and successful implementation of Ilab, an advanced user interface for complex parameter process specification on the information power grid".    ? Received the Contractor Certificate of Excellence. Skills Php (10+ years), perl (4 years), Javascript (3 years), Java (Less than 1 year), HTML (10+ years), SVN (6 years), Git (7 years), CSS (4 years), XML (4 years), Soap (4 years), Linux (10+ years), MySQL (10+ years), Docker Containers (2 years), Virtualization (1 year), Wordpress (4 years), Joomla (4 years), Photoshop (2 years), Illustrator (1 year), JQuery (3 years), Edi (2 years) Links http://venue.com http://hes.lbl.gov http://hespro.lbl.gov https://coedition.com https://join-eby.com