Sales Associate Sales Associate Sales Associate - Web Development Sunbury, PA • Excellence in customer service with over 10 years of customer satisfaction.  • Problem solved customer complaints to provide excellent and positive customer feedback.  • Designed and maintained data structures to ensure the safety and security of sensitive customer  related information.  • Collaborated with clients, customers, and associates with ideas and ways to solve these ideas in  a professional, but efficient way to increase sales, customer support and project designs. Work Experience Sales Associate Weis Markets - Sunbury, PA December 2018 to Present As a Sales Associate my responsibilities entailed the basic operations of the ACM's (Self checkout) to ensure the terminals were all operational, assist customers with their purchases, solve customer complaints and operate the use of P.O.S to speed up productivity.    Possessing the ability to assist customers in and on the the sales floor to ensure the speed of service for the customer and to provide the customer with excellent and relative feedback based upon the customer's questions.    The ability to multitask between departments to better serve the customer and their experience that they have and to make sure the product was stocked and ready to go for the customer. Sales Associate Kroger Stores - Sunbury, PA October 2007 to Present As a Sales Associate my responsibilities entailed the daily operation and overseeing of business conduct and providing expert customer service to customers/vendors.    Supervised in the training of new team members to ensure they were well educated in the daily  operations of the business and were able to solve customer complaints to provide the customers with positive feedback. Web Designer/ Developer and Web Application Developer Self Own Business - Sunbury, PA November 2000 to Present As a Web Developer/ Web Application Developer I held many responsibilities. I was  responsible for consulting with clients and providing them with expert advice regarding to what and how they wanted their web platform to be. Most of the clients wanted an open data connection to store  end user information.    Upheld a business relationship with clients and demonstrated how the interface was designed by keeping the end user in mind. If the client wanted a different approach or wanted something new, I  would then add what they wanted and the interface was maintained in regards to clients request. Education Associate in Computer Science in Business Administration McCann School of Business & Technology - Sunbury, PA January 1999 to March 2001 Skills CUSTOMER SERVICE (10+ years), ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT, CASH HANDLING, LINUX, MICROSOFT OFFICE Certifications/Licenses RAMP September 2018 to September 2020 Responsible Alcohol Management Program - in association with the PLCB (Pennsylvania Liquor Control Board) Assessments Sales Skills: Influence & Negotiation — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to effectively use influence and negotiation techniques to engage with and persuade customers. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/a-7didswyowjej0x Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS    Microsoft Office Cash Handling Linux  Customer Service Administrative Assistant Web Development  Computer Hardware Windows Sales