ETL/ Informatica Developer ETL/ Informatica <span class="hl">Developer</span> ETL/ Informatica Developer - RTG LLC Hyattsville, MD Seasoned Informatica developer, well-versed in extraction, transformation and loading management. Collaborative team player with excellent Knowledge in defining requirements, mitigating risk and developing industry standards.    Developer with leadership, communication, presentations, customer-driven nature and focus on working as part of team. Excellent communicator with ability to meet deadlines and quickly resolve issues. Experienced in full project life cycle from design to implementation to integration.    TOOLS  • Informatica Powercenter 10.1 • SQL Database • Data Warehouse  • Adobe Photoshop • Macromedia Flash • Autosys  • Microsoft Word • Oracle • Design development  • Macromedia Dreamweaver • Troubleshooting and debugging • Microsoft PowerPoint  • Microsoft Outlook • Data stage • Microsoft FrontPage  • PHP • HTML • Wordpress  • Bootstrap • Microsoft Excel • Microsoft Access  • Data Mart • XML • Test Data Management Work Experience ETL/ Informatica Developer RTG LLC January 2016 to Present • Developing ETL (Extract Transform Load) mappings and scripts using Informatica PowerCenter 10.1 using Designer (Source Analyzer, Warehouse designer, Mapping designer, Mapplet Designer, Transformation Developer), Repository Manager, and Workflow Manager & Workflow Monitor.  • Derived Masters schema using various power center transformations like Source Qualifier, Aggregator, Filter, Router, Sequence Generator, look up, Rank, Joiner, Expression, Stored Procedure, SQL, Normalizer and update strategy to meet business logic in the mappings  • Works with various transformations including router transformation, update strategy, expression transformation, lookup transformation, sequence generator, aggregator transformation and sorter transformation.  • Building the source to Target specification documents understanding the business requirements  • Prepares charts and diagrams to assist in problem analysis and submits recommendations for solution  • Prepares program specifications and diagrams and develops coding logic flowcharts  • Works with Metadata Manager and business glossary to match technical data to business terms  • Documents programming problems and resolutions for future reference  • Data management solutions and design, change the status quo and create world class information management solutions  • Manages MS SQL Server database environment to support data migration, backups and recoveries during testing phase of software development life-cycle  • Reviews and assesses existing data-drive software applications to support new features, upgrades, and helps with performance improvements  • Captures and analyzes database activity to identify improvements in indexing, file structure, maintenance processes as well as query performance  • Participates and coordinates with the team for projects to design, implement and support applications that perform ETL operations with external data sources and SQL Server  • Modifies existing database systems by participating in all aspects of SDLC, including requirement gathering & analysis, system design, implementation, testing, deployment as well as sustainment Web Designer/ Developer Global Signature (Nigeria) June 2007 to December 2015 • Conceptualized and build website using brand concepts and latest technologies, software packages and hardware products  • Team Leader - Info Tech Department and Project Coordinator for all IT related projects where timelines and deliverables are discussed.  • Designed, implemented and monitored web pages and sites for continuous improvement in fast-paced environment..  • Implemented concepts and produced design mockups and prototypes to strengthen designs, enhance user experiences and improve site interactions.  • Completed full redesigns of existing websites to improve navigation, enhance visuals and strengthen search engine rankings. Database and Technical Manager GHC INC December 2006 to May 2007 • Wrote and maintained technical and functional specifications to document database intentions and requirements  • Responded to customer requests via telephone and email and effectively answered questions and inquiries.  • Obtained documents, clearances, certificates and approvals from local, state and federal agencies.  • Created boardroom and courtroom multimedia presentations including video and text- synced depositions for enhanced understanding.  • Copied, logged and scanned supporting documentation and placed all information in client files.  • Coordinated with project management staff on database development timelines and project scope.  • Tested programs and databases to identify issues and make necessary modifications. Skills Time management, Team player Additional Information SKILLS  • Management • Strong analytical mind • Time Management  • Determined Team Player • Good Interpersonal and Communication Skills • Ability to Work under Pressure.