Technical lead for rolling out a major project Technical lead for rolling out a major project Technical lead for rolling out a major project - Fleetnet America Kings Mountain, NC My objective is to obtain a position with an organization where I can effectively utilize my expertise in integrating technology, business strategy, and marketing. I have enthusiasm and passion for growing businesses, am self-motivated and eager to work both independently as well as within a team environment. I am a hardworking dependable team player with a well-rounded education and a great desire to constantly learn.     Some of my technology proficiencies include:   .Net (VB and C#), Javascript, JQuery, AJAX, Classic ASP, ASP.NET, CSS, HTML5, XHTML, TSQL, MS SQL Server Studio, SSRS/SSIS/Visual Studio Business Intelligence, Microsoft Report Builder, Relational databases, Visual Studio 2003, 2005, 2008, 2017, .NET 1.1, 2.0, 3.0, 3.5, 4.5 + Frameworks, Win Forms, Web Forms, GIT, TFS, AWS, PuTTY, Linux, Embedded Systems programming, Raspberry Pi development, All Microsoft Office Products (2003-365), MS Visio, MS Projects, ISS, Object Oriented Programming concepts, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Premiere Pro, Z-Wave and other home automation technologies Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technical lead for rolling out a major project Fleetnet America 2015 to Present highly visible to the entire organization.  ? Collaborate continually with management level leadership to identify and translate business requirements into efficient software solutions. Work on several SCRUM teams using C#, VB, SQL daily to create and modify projects in an agile production environment.  ? Converted a very large application initially written in vb6 (with .NET dll forms added over the years) into a multi threaded .NET application. Every person in the 150+ employee company touches this software several times a day-usually all day. Used Multithreading to keep Winforms UI active during processing.  ? As an ETL, I oversee this process from beginning to end, for several larger projects Co-founder and lead developer Our Local Properties 2012 to 2018 Used many of the above technologies (primarily ASP VB.Net, JQuery, SQL Server) to automate the vacation property rental process. The critical mission software decreased the amount of one-on-one communication necessary between the company and travelers by 95% of the industry standard. This saves an enormous amount of time, and thus money.  ? Primarily used the following technologies to create the broad system: ASP.NET, VB.NET, C#, MySQL, sql server 2012, Amazon Web Services (AWS), PHP, HTML5, JQuery, Python, WinForms, Web API, Stored Procedures, Functions, Raspberry Pi, LinuxT-SQL, SSIS/SSRS Packages, PuTTY  ? Developed web forms using C#, HTML5, ASP.NET, JQuery, Javascript with HTTPS for secure interactions with Stripe's Web API allowing us to accept credit card and make payments to clients and property owners. The webforms interacted with a SQL Server 2012 backet using a series of stored procedures, triggers, functions and web services.  ? The C#/SQL system interacted with individual servers at each remote property. I created the servers using raspberry pis, python, HTML5, PHP, Javascript, and  ? The two primary systems (central server and remote servers in rental properties) communicated with each other primarily using Restful web services and SHS  ? The remote servers installed in the rental properties communicated with hardware installed throughout the property (such as lights and door locks) using Z-Wave, Web API, php, javascript. It passed information to the server using a combination of XML and JSON. Win Forms 2015 to 2017 Web Forms APIs, SSIS Packages (creation and modification), stored procedure (creation, development and troubleshooting), SQL Server (SQL Server 2000, 2005, 2008, 2016), T-SQL, HTML5, CSS, Javascript/JQuery, GIT, TFS, Virtual Machines,  ? I have frequently used the following technologies while in this capacity, but not on a daily basis: AJAX, WCF Services, Object Oriented Design principals, Web Services (REST/SOAP), LINQ to SQL,  ? Virtual Machines, virtual machine development,  ? Took The Professional Scrum Foundations (PSF) course, a 2-day course that teaches Scrum by experience by the SCRUM Foundation. Kewaunee Scientific Corporation 2014 to 2014 In this capacity I primarily worked alone and got the job done on time and to specifications.  ? My first project was to decrease the initial loading time of their home page by at least 40%. I did so by 80% well ahead of schedule.  ? Used many of the above technologies to perform specific projects as deemed by an immediate supervisor.  ? Visual Studio 2012, c#, VB.NET, Javascript, HTML5, JQuery, several javascript packages, SQL Server web developer Gemini Newspapers 2012 to 2014 In this position I redesigned their primary website and decreased the amount of time it spent adding stories and pictures 80%. Since this was a major function of the business, it saved them thousands of dollars each month in labor costs.  ? Visual Studio 2012, VB.NET, C#, JavaScript, HTM5, JQuery, javascript packages, QuarkXPress 2012, MySQL, T-SQL, Stored Procedures, mobile development, PuTTY web developer Flying Bridge Technologies 2007 to 2010 for this company, I worked with a small team to use the above technologies to create web sites for numerous projects. I dealt with clients and collaborated in the planning of several large sites both front-end/UX/UI and Back-End.  ? Visual Studio 2005, MS SQL Server, stored procedures, functions, VB.NET, HTML5, Javascript, third party javascript packages, ASP.NET, Crystal Reports, Some 2005 to 2008 of my technology proficiencies include:  .Net (VB and C#), Javascript, JQuery, AJAX, Classic ASP, ASP.NET, CSS, HTML5, XHTML, TSQL, MS SQL Server Studio, SSRS/SSIS/Visual Studio Business Intelligence, Microsoft Report Builder, Relational databases, Visual Studio 2003, 2005, 2008, 2017, .NET 1.1, 2.0, 3.0, 3.5, 4.5 + Frameworks, Win Forms, Web Forms, GIT, TFS, AWS, PuTTY, Linux, Embedded Systems programming, Raspberry Pi development, All Microsoft Office Products (2003-365), MS Visio, MS Projects, ISS, Object Oriented Programming concepts, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Premiere Pro, Z-Wave and other home automation technologies    How I have used my technical skill set as employment: Education Master of Business Administration in Business Administration University of North Carolina - Charlotte, NC 2010 to 2014 Bachelor of Arts in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems Lenoir-Rhyne College 2004 to 2007 Skills Devops, NET, MySQL, ASP