Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Web Developer Sacramento, CA Attentive and creative bilingual front end developer. Strong customer service background with a demonstrated ability to relate to a diverse clientele. Developed fully functional prototypes using HTML/HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and PHP. Looking for an entry level front end developer position. Work Experience Web Developer Webtronix Designs Web Agency - Sacramento, CA September 2018 to Present Research competition and evaluate their design, code and position in the search engines. Design and code websites in WordPress. Maintain working relationship with clients. Test websites compatibility across multiple devices and browsers. Web Developer Freelance - Sacramento, CA 2017 to Present Research competition and evaluate their design, code and position in the search engines. Design and code websites in HTML, CSS, PHP and JavaScript. Maintain working relationship with clients. Test websites compatibility across multiple devices and browsers. Front Desk Agent Hilton Garden Inn Hotel - Sacramento, CA 2016 to 2017 Communicated with public, hotel staff and management in a professional manner. Managed and resolved all guest complaints. Maintained guest accounts: guest checks, master accounts, vouchers, gift certificates, etc. Initiated and monitored shift checklist for proper completion of tasks. Provided effective communication to all departments of guest activity. Effectively coordinated relocation of guests when necessary. Membership Accounting for Premier Access Insurance Certified Employment - Sacramento, CA 2014 to 2015 Oversaw credit transactions and payments. Preformed accounts receiv- able and payable functions. Answered inbound calls and inquiries. Managed customer database for insurance enrollments. Made outbound calls to collect customer premiums. Bilingual Customer Service Representative Delta Dental of California - Rancho Cordova, CA 2007 to 2013 Bilingual telephone customer service representative. Specialized in man- aging customer conflicts and challenging situations. Received over 40 customer calls requiring immediate resolution daily. Arranged dental screening appointments. Explained claim and treatment authorization request denials. Proven success in building relationships and providing customer service to both beneficiaries and dental providers. Education Bachelors of Science in Graphic and Web Design THE ART INSTITUTE OF CA - Sacramento, CA 2013 to June 2018 Skills HTML (5 years), CSS (5 years), JavaScript (2 years), PHP (2 years), Photoshop (5 years), Dreamweaver (5 years), Illustrator (5 years), Indesign (5 years), Slack (3 years), Customer Service (10+ years), After Effects (2 years), Invision App (3 years), Wordpress, Jquery, HTML5 Links http://www.JGcodes.com Additional Information Sacramento 2018 WordCamp- Organizer