Systems Analyst/Software Developer Systems Analyst/Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Systems Analyst/Software Developer Cumming, GA Experienced web application developer using .Net technologies with a focus on reporting and web forms application development utilizing C# and Sql Server. For the past seven plus years I have been developing application to support product distribution and service    My job responsibilities cover full life cycle development, from requirements gathering, UI design, database design, software engineering through testing, debugging and client training.    My career experience has been primarily in the IT and Telecom Industries. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Analyst/Software Developer Ingenico Inc August 2010 to May 2018 Alpharetta    ? Designed and built an occupancy monitoring system for secure areas where occupancy rules are strictly eforced. These systems were integrated into the Isonas access control system and used passive infra-red sensors within the secure areas to detect motion. The purpose of this system is to ensure that no single person is in the room alone.  ? Developed a single sign-on forms authentication project enabling Ingenico employees and business partners to access internal applications. Authorized users are presented with a menu of applications for which they have been granted access.  ? Supported the Distribution and Repair Centers by designing developing and supporting a variety of applications to record and display activity in both centers. Applications included repair history, employee productivity wall displays, RMA and Key Injection, serial number search for product data all available from a centralized web console.  ? Designed and developed an Application Request system providing the ability for Ingenico employees to request development projects. Requests followed a workflow through management and once approved, were assigned to the developer. Project enabled updates, documentation to be attached and provided the ability to add notes at anytime.  ? Designed and developed product management application to support sales quote applications. Application pair products with accessories, handled pricing, product photographs and descriptions.  ? Designed and developed Customer Return workflow application that allowed customers to return non-rma merchandise for credit or refund. This application was a work flow app that required Sales VP or CFO approval to proceed.    ? Provided data conversion tools to enable Excel Spreadsheets to be converted into a format that could be uploaded to SAP.  ? Wrote technical documents for completed projects.  ? Developed software for wall mounted displays that managers and technicians used to monitor productivity by workstation.  ? Technologies: ASP.Net, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Jquery, JS Bootstrap, C#, C, Visual Studio 2008, 2010 & 2017, TFS, Windows 10, LinqToSql, Entity Framework, SSRS, Sql Server, T-Sql, Stored Procedures & Views. Web Developer - Asp.net Chamberlin Edmonds & Associates - Atlanta, GA April 2005 to July 2008 C# Development  ? Primarily responsibilities were developing web based UI reporting tools.  ? UI contributions to the Pace business tool.  ? Support of legacy VB applications.  ? Developed SSRS Reports.  ? Designed and developed a financial reporting system for tracking contract labor using ASP.Net, JavaScript, VB.Net and Sql Server Stored Procedures.  ? Designed and developed a data entry system (UI) for the input and tracking of customer data (hospitals), bill rates and contract information.  ? Provided support and improvements on legacy VB6 applications.  ? Created static mockups using Visio, Paintshop Pro for the company's developing BPM system.  ? Developed function UI mockups using HTML and Javascript following requirements defined by business analysts. Education Certification Lanier Tech October 2015 None in Aviation Technology Southern Illinois University - Carbondale, IL Photography Coursework College of DuPage Skills ASP (10+ years), ASP.NET (10+ years), C# (10+ years), JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), MICROSOFT SSRS (10+ years) Additional Information ? Technologies: Asp.Net, HTML, CSS, Visual Studio 2005, asynchronous callbacks, ADO.Net, SSRS, VB.Net, C#, VB6.    VoiceXML / .Net Developer and Telecom 2/2005 - 8/2005  Optima Roswell    ? Designed and developed IVR applications using VB.Net and VoiceXML on a Vocomo voice response server. Applications allowed field techs to dial in and register completed work and hours worked.  ? Completed an analysis of company telecom services and implemented recommendations that saved the company a substantial amount of money  ? Researched and provided information that assisted management in the selection of a new voip telephone system.    .Net Developer Contract 4/2004 - 10/2004  Kubota Tractor Company Gainesville  ? Developed UI web forms using ASP.Net and Javascript for the company's supply chain application, using Visual Studio, ASP.Net, Javascript & HTML.  ? This was a six month contract to assist existing developer meet their timeline.    .Net Developer & Autocad tech 6/2001 - 8/2003  Bradfield Richards Rhodes and Associates Atlanta  ? Junior level position which required basic .Net and Sql Server skills  ? Designed and developed a small ASP.Net application for archiving data related to various architectural projects.  ? Created architectural drawings using AutoCad 14    UI Web Developer 6/2000 - 4/2001  BroadRiver Telecommunications Alpharetta  ? Designed and developed Web pages using HTML and Javascript. These pages were then tied into web application by Java developers.    Network Analyst 10/1999 - 10/2000  Concert Communications - Performed a network inventory and documented Concert's network assets using Visio and Excel.    Contract Tech Writer - Web Developer 4/1997 - 8/1999  GTE Wireless Atlanta  ? Developed a web site for cataloging tech support documentation using HTML, CSS and Javascript.  ? Authored support documentation for the wireless help desk.    Network Support contract positions    Medaphis 7/1996 - 3/ 1997    Turner Broadcasting 8/1995 - 7/1996    Coca-Cola 4/1992 - 8/1995    Skills:  UI  ASP.NET  C#  AJAX  Javascript  JQuery  Json  Web Api  HTML  HTML5  CSS3  Bootstrap    Visual Studio 2010  Visual Studio 2017  Team Foundation Server    SQL Server 2016  T-SQL  Stored Procedures  Views  SSRS (2008)    Linq to Sql  Entity Framework  XML  IIS 10  Windows 10 IOT Core    Skills in progress  MVC 5  Razor  Visual Studio Code