Web Page Developer/ <span class="hl">Web</span> Page <span class="hl">Developer</span>/ Science Hill, KY Seeking a challenging opportunity to expand my work experience while utilizing my skills to further advance my current skill set. Work Experience Web Page Developer/ Keller Trailer Sales - Science Hill, KY December 2017 to May 2019 Collect paperwork, pictures and information on new inventory to post to the website to sell. Show clients details about campers and trailers to ensure they get the right one for their lifestyle. Add new products to the computer and price to sell. Clean/Prep new campers to be sold. Assist employer with bookwork. Schedule maintenance work to campers/trailers. Surgical Technician Midway Veterinary - Somerset, KY July 2005 to December 2017 • Assist doctor with all aspects of surgery.  • Prepare patient for surgery- obtain blood work, administer pre-surgical injections, shave and sterilize surgical site.  • Anesthesia maintenance- monitor patient's breathing, heartbeat and temperature while anesthetized and keep patient on correct percentage of anesthesia from begin to end of procedure.  • Clean all incisions after surgery is finished and bandage area. Clean and sterilize instruments.  • Restock and order all surgical supplies, keep surgical area organized and sterile.  • Preparing all take home instructions and medication for the patient, as well as working with clients to make sure that all instructions are understood before being dismissed to go home. Keep owners informed of pets status.  • Serve as receptionist- check in patients and record all information needed for doctor, ready client's bill for check out, and receive payment, call next day appointments.  • Facilitate kennel care - take note of any vaccinations or medications pet will need while boarding, schedule any surgeries needed while boarding, clean boarders area, and maintain a happy border.  • Laboratory technician- obtain all blood and urine samples and run necessary tests, send any specimen to outside laboratories, and retrieve laboratory tests and place in patients file. Education Clinical Medical Assistant The Medical Institute of KY - Somerset, KY March 2019 to July 2019 Diploma Pulaski County High School - Somerset, KY 2002 to 2006 Skills Osha, HIPPA, Phlebotomy, Obtain Vitals, Bookkeeping, Medication Administration, Medical Terminology, Medical Records, CPR, EKG, Injections, Patient Care, Receptionist, Vital Signs Certifications/Licenses Work Ethics Seal May 2006 to Present CPR/First Aid February 2019 IV Therapy CMA