Preschool Owner/Director Preschool Owner/Director Preschool Owner/Director Philadelphia, PA Dedicated professional with a Master's degree, excited to resume my professional career after parental leave.    Business Owner/Management Skills:  • Staff recruitment, orientation development, retention, supervision, team building, evaluation  • Program development  • Policies & procedures    • Marketing  • Comprehensive communication skills with a diverse population  • Problem solver  • Customer-centered approach    • Compliance of all Federal and State regulations  • Spreadsheet, database, website  • Records management Work Experience Preschool Owner/Director Pitter Patter Play & Learn Child Care - Philadelphia, PA June 2003 to February 2009 Started a small business with a gross of $45,000 the 1st year and increasing that to $226,000 by the 5th year with 7 employees and at full capacity with 30 children. This success demonstrates effective communication, time management, analysis and resolution, staff recruitment, multitasking, marketing, and leadership. Adapting and learning quickly along with presenting clear vision and policies were also integral to the success I was able to achieve. Web Developer National Board of Medical Examiners - Philadelphia, PA February 2000 to June 2003 Promoted to web developer through hard work and dedication. Established web applications for company Intranet, using HTML, MS Access, HomeSite, and VB script. Planned, managed, and implemented the company wide online employee evaluation system. This system increased flexibility and efficiency, moving the company from paper and pen evaluations. Created online documentation and conducted training sessions on how to use online systems. Worked closely with a variety of groups to identify technology needs and provide advice on efficient ways to work and share information.    Applications Specialist  Managed projects such as the creation of Microsoft Access databases to be housed on servers and shared across multiple groups and macros for Word, Access and Excel so groups could work more efficiently. Planned and implemented successful migration to Microsoft Office 2000. Through expertise and excellent customer service got staff back to work by resolving Microsoft Office, Outlook, and Project issues expeditiously. Microsoft Office Specialist IMI - Wilmington, DE July 1999 to February 2000 Through excellent verbal and written communication skills, I effectively provided high level support for Microsoft products and proprietary software, getting clients back to work quickly, regardless of their technical ability. Demonstrated how to resolve problems and work more efficiently through the use of Systems Management Server (SMS). Software Trainer/ Database Developer Online Consulting - Wilmington, DE November 1998 to July 1999 An integral part of a team that provided Microsoft-Office training to several companies (i.e Sun Company, Cigna, American College of Physicians). Effective in classroom settings of 20 learners from general staff to senior level executives. Frequently requested to teach executive classes and one on one sessions because of expert knowledge, communication skills, and professionalism. Education M.A in Education in English Arcadia University - Glenside, PA B.A in Psychology Temple University - Philadelphia, PA Skills Microsoft office, Ms project, Database, Ms access, Linux, Office experience, Instructor, Teaching, Organizational Skills Links http://linkedin.com/in/tanyafolk Assessments Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/pvez-playg62n0t6 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Technology Skills:  • Extensive Microsoft Office experience  • MS Project  • MS Access Database    • Troubleshooting  • Web development  • Executive software trainer    • Classroom Instructor/Advisor  • Windows, Linux (Ubuntu)  • OpenOffice