SENIOR APPLICATIONS DEVELOPER SENIOR APPLICATIONS <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> SENIOR APPLICATIONS DEVELOPER - BRIXMOR PROPERTY GROUP Monroe, CT Work Experience SENIOR APPLICATIONS DEVELOPER BRIXMOR PROPERTY GROUP - New York, NY September 2008 to Present * Managing a team of about 5 developers that are outsourced through our company doing miscellaneous work with in house application systems and customizations to application systems.  * Managing a team of 2-3 junior developer employees.  * In charge of gathering requirements for upcoming development projects using an agile approach with such tools as MS Visio for building a visual of the software solution and MS Word for documenting the processes of the requirements.  * In charge of distributing out projects after the requirements are gathered and distributed modularly to each of the individual developers under my leadership.  * Developed a highly extensive application in VS.Net 2017 using ASP.Net Core 2.1 (Server Side), Restful API's (Data Model / Middleware), and Angular 5 (Front End) using Typescript with a data source in SQL Server 2014 for a Tenant Information System.  * The Tenant Information System was built for our employees to be able to keep track of tenants occupying our units in our mini complexes. It guides the field to be able to see who is occupying the space versus vacancies. Also provides them information on how the tenant decided to leave and to what extent the lease still has on the tenant.  * Developed an application using Angular, Restful Api's, Node.js, Express.js, with SQL Server as the data source. The application was built for Property information. This application entailed google maps.  * The Property Information Portal was built so that leasing agents as well as property managers can have ease of use to a visual of the property using longitude and latitude coordinates of our direct properties coming from a map (Google Maps API). They are able to dig down on the property for information that comes from our data warehouse from looking up future lease estimates to competitions of other properties owned by different entities in the surrounding 10 mile radius to general information on the property itself (leasing information, vacancy reports, etc.)  * The Property Portal was also built natively. Our Company uses only iPhones and iPads so we decided to create a mobil application as well, using Xcode with Objective C and Sqlite as our data source.  * Developed Applications in ASP.Net 2005, 2010, and 2013 using C#.Net and VB.Net. Also using WCF Web Services for all data transactions.  * Using the ASP.Net MVC architecture for all application builds.  * Using AngularJS for fast reusable code.  * Using C#.Net VB.Net, and Silverlight to build mobile applications using WCF web services. Also building mobile applications using the adobe Flex / Flash Builder SDK and also using WCF Web Services.  * In charge of upgrading the internal company portal that was built in MCMS and VS.Net 2003 using C#.Net and Sharepoint.  * Rebuilt from ground up the internal company portal in Sharepoint 2013 using VS.Net 2013 for Content and Document Management for internal company information.  * All backend database structures are built in SQL Server 2005 and 2008 Enterprise Edition.  * Creating and Developing reports are built in Microstrategy for Business Intellegence reporting.  * Built web components / add-ons to existing Software (e.g. Stellent IBPM, JDE, ADF (Automated Deal Flow Software), IBM Websphere).  * Implemented our mainframe CRM system Salesforce and coded in apex to customize property generated sales from tenant to operations.  * Set up groups using Active Directory as well as set up user's rights for each individual within the organization so that our internal portal was generated through AD.  * Developed skills in Adobe Flex, Adobe Flash, Actionscript, and Coldfusion to build highly rich web application development sites for internal property information and gathering / entering property data.  * Developed property maps and locations of general area mapping using Adobe Flash Builder and Coldfusion.  * Real time reporting in internal Sharepoint site using Adobe Flex API's along with Microstrategy API's.  * Developed web applications within our internal portal for automation purposes to ease the use of paper (such as filling out forms when a tenant has Moved In or Moved Out, all database driven in our data warehouse in SQL 2005).  * Developed web application within our internal portal for automation purposes to ease the use of paper (such as filling out a form for Tenant Changes, all database driven in our data warehouse in SQL 2005).  * Automated and developed our Mall Websites and generated HTML Templates for content control by the Malls supervisor's. All backend SQL Server 2005.  * Developed Applications on our main site in ASP using Javascript and VBScript. Created CSS files for more design quality, These applications were built for content control on the Mall websites and for Property Site Development.  * All Web Application Developing was standardized in MVC (Model View Control) design patterns (e.g. Adobe Flex(Pure MVC), ASP.Net(MVC / MVVC)).  * Wrote code such as macros and functions for users in excel for ease of use for financial data.  * In charge of writing documentation as well as Visio Diagrams and specs for upcoming projects. Also, was in charge of test plans, training and writing up training material.  * Other Coding abilities include CSS, SASS, HTML, HTML, AJAX, XML, JSON, JQuery and Javascript. IT SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR / WEB DEVELOPER ATLANTIC ASSET MANAGEMENT, LLC - Stamford, CT April 2007 to January 2008 * Maintained user's rights and privileges for all systems such as Bloomberg, MSCRM, Active Directory, and Microsoft Exchange 2003.  * Built the new Microsoft Exchange 2007 Server and helped in the migration process from Microsoft Exchange 2003 to Microsoft Exchange 2007 to move all existing email accounts over to the new server.  * In charge of developing and / or enhancing features within Microsoft CRM 3.0. Ran reports and built new reports for the marketers within the organization in MSCRM 3.0 using SQL Server 2005 Reporting Services.  * Also built a front end web application for CRM in ASP.Net using C#.Net.  * All backend reporting and data entry was used in SQL Server 2005 Enterprise Edition.  * Developed new crystal reports and new features to our in house data center. This entailed coding in ASP.Net using VB.Net 2005 in SQL Reporting Services to enhance the real time reporting for the organization.  * Built an internal Portal from ground up using .Net Nuke and add-ons with VS.Net 2005.  * Write code such as macros and functions for users in excel for ease of use for financial data. Also, create reports that generate daily, monthly, and quarterly data for financial advisors.  * In charge of gathering requirements as well as communicating with department executives in developing new applications or enhancing applications and / or buying a new product to implement in house.  * In charge of gathering requirements, writing documentation, writing technical specs using MS Visio, used MS Project for keeping in tacked with all of my projects and outsourced projects, in charge of Disaster Recovery.  * Maintained updates to servers and in charge of all maintenance to all servers. All servers are all Microsoft Server 2003 servers.  * In charge of backups every night using Veritas Backup Exec. IT BUSINESS ANALYST / COMPUTER PROGRAMMER / WEB DEVELOPER ODYSSEY AMERICA REINSURANCE CO - Stamford, CT June 2004 to April 2007 * Responsible for gathering requirements from all departments as well as document and create all the technical specifications.  * Responsible for testing and analyzing software that was to be implemented into our systems. Updating system settings to add new software. In charge of documenting every single development project within implementing software. Taking action to see that the software had quality and met standards to the organizations needs.  * Interpersonal skills were met for any new implementations that took place. Presentations and making sure that all employees were comfortable in the daily workflow changes that were taken into effect.  * Helped with the implementation for Sarbanes Oxley within the IT Department. Documentation was fully developed for Sarbanes Oxley. All narratives and controls were put into compliance for all walkthroughs for the Auditors.  * Administrator rights to handle all workflows of internal and external employees. Made sure that rights were given to the correct people through a database operation. Watchdog for incoming and outgoing employees to add or delete from system.  * In charge of building new components to meet our needs. Built OFAC tracker components to keep track of insurance claims and probability of people are to be believed they are who they say they are.  * Built and discovered business tactics using different programs and coding to be an industry easy access to folder and document structures within a portal.  * Maintained progress on a portal that distributed everyday content to the industry related subjects. Updates on a daily bases for new and up to date information on company and industry news. Built currency and stock exchanges using ASP.Net, XML, and XSL for the portal so that each individual in the organization can keep profiles of daily exchange rates and stock changes.  * Helped to organize Sarbanes Oxley compliance for public corporate business use. The compliance issues were suited and built for company ease of use and standardized to meet the business criteria. Helped in documentation and development of a compliance software solution for daily, monthly, and yearly transactions.  * Built tools using ASP.Net code to implement an easy way of tracking employees for Sarbanes Oxley. Kept track of Active Directory for employee information within the organization. Active Directory keeps track of employee information for business use within the organization. Any business applications or personal management systems are granted access to employees that use these applications and systems. Built an application that handles edits within Active Directory for ease of use in updating contact information.  * Very fluent in designing and programming in VS.Net. Most of my experience is in ASP.Net using VB.Net. IT PRODUCTION TECHNICIAN ODYSSEY AMERICA REINSURANCE CO - Stamford, CT September 2003 to June 2004 * Maintain the Data Warehouse. The Data Warehouse was built using SQL Server 2000. All business transactions are done using the Data Warehouse. Maintenance and backups are required for everyday use of the Data Warehouse.  * Administration rights to all SQL Developed Applications. Maintain all VS.Net Applications and any SQL Server 2000 data that was developed.  * Administer all accounting balances using a system that processes all the data for all weekly, monthly, and Quarterly closes. Run procedures that balance all accounting transactions that were processed on a daily bases all in which are updated using an ETL Tool.  * In charge of updating production Business Objects reports for monthly and Quarterly closes. Gives accountants a view of reports that all balance inquiries are updated and balanced correctly within the Data Warehouse.  * A very stern understanding of Business Object Reporting. Understanding of creating universes as well as reporting. A very good understanding of administering or supervising within Business Objects.  * A very stern understanding of administering VS.Net 2003 and SQL Server 2000 applications.  * In the process of rewriting the Data Warehouse in SQL Server 2000 and recreating the ETL Tool from Delphi to VB.Net 2003.  * Gathered requirements for updating the new ETL tool. Also, wrote all documentation and spec work.  * Responsible for keeping track of all my projects using MS Project. Education Business University of Bridgeport - Bridgeport, CT January 2006 to Present Computer Programming Gibbs Norwalk Community College - Norwalk, CT October 2003 to October 2005 Skills .NET, MICROSOFT VISUAL STUDIO, VISUAL STUDIO, C#, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, PHP, VB.NET, VISIO, XML, AJAX, ASP, CSS, DHTML, ASP.NET, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2000, SQL, JAVA, EXCEL, Front End, Front-End, Angular, UI Additional Information Skills:  SOFTWARE:  * HTML, DHTML, AJAX, XML, CSS, ASP (ASP & ASP.NET), JavaScript, Java, Microsoft Visual Studio.NET 2003 , 2005, 2010, and 2013 (VB.Net and C#.Net), SQL Server 2000, 2005, 2008, and 2012 (Administration and Development).  * Microsoft Office (Well experienced with Excel (Macros, Formulas, etc.), Word, Visio, and PowerPoint).  * PHP and WordPress when building freelance websites.    GENERAL:  * Excellent interpersonal skills.  * Goal oriented.  * Organized and detail oriented.