Sr. UI Developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Developer New York, NY ? More than 9 Years of experience in Web Application Development & Designing.  ? Strong command in leading Frameworks Team such as Angular.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, D3.Js, React.Js and Node.Js  ? Hands on experience in Web Application development using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and JSON.  ? Experienced in WEB and GUI development using HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, DOJO, POJO, AJAX, JSON technologies.  ? In-Depth understanding of entire web based architectures, web technologies, SDLC and OOAD.  ? Experience in working with various databases like Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL, Postgres/PostGIS.  ? Expertise in front-end development in working with AJAX frameworks: Angular 2JS (typescript), Angular JS, JQuery, Sencha, YUI, DWR and Dojo.  ? Excellent knowledge and experience in Oracle Database, DB2, JDBC, PL/SQL, MS SQL Server, My SQL Server, MongoDB.  ? Experience working in various Software Development Methodologies like Agile, Waterfall, SCRUM and TDD.  ? Expertise in integrated environment for java such as Eclipse, MyEclipse, RAD, NetBeans, ClearCase and VSS.  ? Experience of complex threading, Reactive Extensions.  ? Experienced in using Reacts JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  ? Experience in developing and implementing Web Services using SOAP, WSDL  ? Eexperience with Core Java and J2EE using most of the advanced features of Java including Spring, Hibernate, iBatis, JDBC, , Struts, EJB, Servlets.  ? Good at Documenting and Understanding User requirements and System Specifications.  ? Agile/SCRUM was used as the project management methodology and JIRA & Confluence were the tools used to keep things in check.  ? Excellent Client interaction skills and proven experience in working independently as well as in a team.  ? Experienced in Creating Domain Model, Activity Diagrams, Use Case diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams and Object Model.  ? Excellent Leadership, Technical, Communication, Analytical and Problem Solving skills and ability to get on well with people including cross-cultural backgrounds.    CORE TECH SKILLS  ? JavaScript, Redux, Angular.js, Node.js, React.JS, Agile, Backbone.js, SaaS, OOP , Ruby on Rails, PostgreSQL, D3.js, JUnit, HTML5, CSS3, Typescript, Bootstrap.js, EXT-JS, Ajax, JQuery, Dojo, Java,Spring, Hibernate, JDBC, C, C++. Work Experience Sr. UI Developer Cardinal Health, Inc - Dublin, OH August 2016 to Present Cardinal Health, Inc. is a Fortune 500 health care services company based in Dublin, Ohio. The company specializes in distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical products, serving more than 100,000 locations. The company also manufactures medical and surgical products, including gloves, surgical apparel and fluid management products.  Accountabilities:  ? Developed front end using Bootstrap.js, Angular.js, Node.js, D3.js, Backbone.js, where back end is JAX-RS (Jersey) REST webservice.  ? Developed user interfaces using AJAX, JavaScript, JSON, HTML5, and CSS3.  ? Designed front-end user interfaces with ReactJS by creating many components and modules.  ? Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as Angular.Js, Node.js, D3.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap.js and Bootstrap.js  ? Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, JSON, Angularjs, and REST Services  ? Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, Node.JS, ExtJS, ReactJS, AngularJS, knockout JS, Wire-framing, HTML5.  ? Implemented ReactJS to create a dynamically changing website.  ? Used angular-cli tool to configuring the angular project and building it for development of Angular application using Angular 4.  ? Developed a few UI modules for the mobile version of the website using ReactJS.  ? Created design mock-ups and wireframes using Adobe Photoshop and Dreamweaver.  ? Developed and tested many features in an AGILE environment-using Ruby on Rails, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, and Bootstrap.  ? Wrote and implemented load scripts for transition of the legacy data from a Siebel (Oracle CRM) database to a newly-designed PostgreSQL/Linux database server.  ? Worked on Developing cross browser functionality with Ext JS 6 and Used AJAX, JQUERY to design specs for single page layout using good programming practices  ? Developing Web Application in Groovy/Grails with Mongo DB as a data stores using the IntelliJ Idea IDE with the latest Grails SDK, Java.  ? Integrated the different pages to be a single page application using Angular 4 and Typescript.  ? Development of front-end application using Angular 2 JS, Dependency injection, Rx and Http modules with Node.js server for future evolutions.  ? Designed domain specific language system using groovy/grails framework.  ? Experience in Core Java concepts such as OOP Concepts, Collections Framework, Exception Handling, I/O System, Multi-Threading, JDBC.  ? Involved in hands on programming on the core application development using multithreading, Groovy and Grails that combines Hibernate and Spring.  ? Worked with Angular 2 and typescript as part of migration from Angular and vanilla javascript to Angular 2 and React.  ? Worked with various MVC Java frameworks like Angular.JS, EXT.JS, Backbone.JS, Node.JS, Ember.JS, bootstrap.JS, Require .JS, D3.JS, etc.  ? Introduced redux-thunk and Immutable.js as additional libraries to support ReactJs application.  ? Focus on Ruby development, both inside of a traditional Rails application, and as part of a report generating application.  ? Use of ReactJS help to refresh the pages and update the changed parts.  ? Used NoSQL Databases such as Hive, HBase; Installed and configured MySQL Databases and performed data load from MySQL to Hadoop.  ? Developed website using Ruby on Rails on Linux operating system, backed by MySQL and Capistrano to automate and ease the deployment process on Phusion Passenger server.  ? Used ECMAScript 6, ReactJS, Flux, Babel, Node and Web-Pack to create a SPA.  ? Used JavaScript frameworks such as JQuery, Dojo, Ext JS, CSS preprocessors such as LESS or SASS.  ? Created Directives, Services, Filters using Angular JS with Typescript.  ? Build up pagination for search results using Ext paging store.  ? Experience in limiting page-loading delay and visible browser-server interaction using MVC framework with Ajax, JavaScript, Angular.js, Backbone.js and Node.js, D3.js.  ? Created design mock-ups and wireframes using Adobe Photoshop and Dreamweaver.  ? Developed and Maintained perl based vulnerability scanning engine used in SaaS security model.  ? Wrote unit tests supporting a complete architectural overhaul (from SOAP to REST) of backend  ? Architected the frontend solution using React, Relay and GraphQL. Lead the UX and design outsourced teams helping with product ideation to creation.  ? Designed Frontend with object oriented JavaScript Framework like angular.js, Node.js, Backbone.js, Knockout.js, React.js/Redux, Spine.js, Ember.js, Require.js, Express.js, Pdf.js and Experience with client side templating like Handlebars.js.  ? Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  ? Used the Middleware, Redux-saga, Redux-promise in application to retrieve the data from the external API's and perform the RESTful Services.  ? Developed application as Enterprise JavaScript using - AngularJs, NodeJs, Websockets, Jasmine, Karma, NPM, Gulp, Protractor etc.  ? Develop custom drag and drop tree view, web application to transfer and arrange HL7 data using Angular, html, Vue.js.  ? Developed Single Page applications using AngularJS using components, directives using TypeScript.  ? Used Redux SAGA to view and action creators as pure functions and it allows to model state transitions using familiar JavaScript constructs.  ? Involved in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  ? Worked on implementing React.js flux based page updates using React fetchers, state mutating actions and stores.  ? Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework using HTML. Client Side validations were done using JavaScript and AngularJs.  ? Worked on Java/J2EE framework APIs like Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  ? Built Single Page Apps using Angular and Typescript for Responsive Design.  ? Developed Single Page applications using AngularJS using components, directives using TypeScript.  ? Used Reactive Extensions for JavaScript (RxJS) in Angular2 to make the HTTP requests to the REST API for getting the patient details.    Background Skills: HTML5, CSS3, XML, JavaScript, Angular.js, AJAX, PostgreSQL, SaaS, OOP, Ruby on Rails, React.JS, JSON, Redux, JUnit, Dojo, Wireframes, RXJS, TypeScript, Node.js, Backbone.js, Vue.js, Bootstrap, Groovy, Grails, D3.js, Extjs, Java, Oracle, GraphQL, PL/SQL, MS-Sql, Thunk, JDBC, Flux, Maven, React Router, Web Services, SOAP, REST, Ant, RAD, Agile, Scrum, CVS, Eclipse, Saga, Subversion (SVN), Windows XP, Linux. SR. UI Developer Best Buy - Richfield, MN August 2014 to August 2016 Best Buy Co., Inc. is a U.S transnational consumer electronics corporation headquartered in Richfield, Minnesota, a Minneapolis suburb. Internationally, it also operates in Canada and Mexico.The company also expanded its product offerings to include home appliances and VCRs.    Accountabilities:  ? Worked on variety of Frontend JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS, BackboneJS, ReactJS, Node.js, JQuery, JQuery UI and good knowledge in EmberJS.  ? Developed single page application with Angular JS, Node.js,.  ? Created single page applications using Node.js, AngularJS, ReactJS.  ? Worked with Bootstrap for compiling CSS, REST API, ReactJS, JavaScript and building the System with the convenient methods with Angular JS.  ? Created client website running on a Node.js, using the Express framework, Jade, AngularJS and Backbone.js for front end MVC/templating.  ? Implemented User interface (UI) entire application using HTML, CSS, Custom Tag Libraries, JavaScript, XML and XSLT.  ? Developed user interface using HTML, XHTML, CSS, JSON and JavaScript to simplify the complexities of the application.  ? Design all UI elements, wireframes, and comps with Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator and InDesign.  ? Developed a Web Application using Java with the Google Web ToolkitAPI with PostgreSql.  ? Configured with gulp.js to test the Typescript with TSLint.  ? Developed and executed software systems utilizing JavaScript and Groovy.  ? Developed and implemented products and services page using Ruby on Rails and MongoDB.  ? Experience in MVP Design Pattern, OOP, Singleton, Template, IoC and Dependency Injection design Patterns.  ? Implemented Grails TagLibs to avoid groovy code in GSP pages.  ? Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by angular.  ? Used groovy and spring boot to collecting the data from users and packaged the data as json distributed to number of applications.  ? Developing Web Application in Groovy/Grails with Mongo DB as a data stores using the IntelliJ Idea IDE with the latest Grails SDK, Java.  ? Developed Agile processes using Groovy, JUnit to use continuous integration.  ? Developed front-end applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS, Node JS, Backbone JS, Require JS, Morris JS, Flot JS and MVC frameworks.  ? Implemented AJAX calls with Ext JS and handled request and responses for various modules.  ? Data was bound to the components with MVVM using Kendo and Vue.JS, and was retrieved, created, updated, & deleted using REST.  ? Built web application using Vue.js and Firebase.  ? Used JavaScript frameworks such as JQuery, Dojo, Ext JS, CSS preprocessors such as LESS or SASS.  ? Designed GraphQL to build client applications by providing an intuitive and flexible syntax and system for describing their data requirements and interactions.  ? Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as, backbone.js, Node.js AngularJS and Bootstrap.js  ? Displayed proficiency in React.js, MongoDB, and CSS by developing and seeing through to deployment version Alpha of a cross-platform mobile application.  ? Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, Node.JS, ExtJS, ReactJS, AngularJS, knockout JS, Wire-framing, HTML.  ? Interacted with DB sharding, Redis, Jenkins, SOLR, GraphQL, Grafana, Click Tracking for analytics. Learned code standards.  ? Designed SPA (Single page applications) in Flux architecture using React.js.  ? Designed and developed the web applications and interfaces using Ruby on Rails and AJAX.  ? Experience in Cloud SaaS, PaaS, Iaas. Good experience in UI front, in JSP, Struts, Javascript, angular JS, html, CSS, jQuery.  ? Created the Application using React.JS and Node.js libraries NPM, gulp directories to generate desired view and flux to root the URL's properly.  ? Used JSON for data exchange between application modules along with XML.  ? Implemented Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate provided access to Oracle RDBMS  ? Create new interfaces using java, maven/ant, spring mvc / struts, or hibernate based on provided requirements XSD/DDF's  ? Converted grunt build tasks to gulp to decrease build times in an angular node project.  ? Created a library of visual components using Highcharts, D3, and jQuery for reporting results.  ? Developed the UI pages using HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, ANGULAR.JS, and D3.JS.  ? Develop application using Ember, AngularJS, Bootstrap, RequireJS.  ? Implemented UI angular bootstrap for faster and easier web development  ? Developed frontend application using React.js, Express.js and Knockout. Js.  ? Create web service component using REST, SOAP, WSDL, XML to interact with the middleware  ? Wrote test cases using JUnit testing framework and configured applications on Weblogic Server.  ? Developed bug management system for internal usage, using MySQL, Bootstrap, Backbone.js  ? Designed and implemented the web application in Ruby on Rails, Node.js, HTML and JQuery from initial concept development to beta launch.  ? Usage of version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache) and JIRA  ? Worked with Oracle RDBMS for writing complex queries and PL/SQL, SQL for Stored Procedures, Triggers and Events, for generating some important responses needed by the application  ? Developed Angular-JS unit test cases using Jasmine and Karma.  ? Developed framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies    Background Skills: HTML, CSS, XML, React.JS, JavaScript, Node.js, JSON, Ruby on Rails, OOP, SaaS, PostgreSQL, Wireframes, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Java, Groovy, Grails, DB2, Vue.js, PL/SQL, Extjs, GraphQL, JDBC, Oracle, MySQL, Apache CXF, SOAP, Web Services, REST, Eclipse, Git, Github, Junit, Agile, Scrum, Maven Web Developer Rise Interactive - Chicago, IL November 2011 to August 2014 Rise Interactive is a digital marketing agency specializing in digital media and advanced analytics. The agency is a strategic partner helping marketing leaders allocate budgets most efficiently and create more relevant experiences for their customers. An award-winning agency, Rise has been recognized as a leader in the digital marketing space and has received industry recognition for explosive growth, excellence in digital marketing, and company culture.    Accountabilities:  ? Developed web Components using JSP, Servlets and Server side components using EJB under J2EE Environment.  ? Developed GUI screens for XTT & LD application using JSP, HTML and CSS.  ? Worked on products such as InVision, Sketch, Balsamiq, InDesign, and Photoshop (among others) to produce wireframes, prototypes and other specification documents.  ? Development UI modules using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  ? Wrote JavaScript functions to get Dynamic data and Client side validation.  ? Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the Javascript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  ? Implemented a Node.js server to manage authentication.  ? Created Node.js middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework Worked with JSON objects and JavaScript and JQuery intensively to create interactive web pages.  ? Implemented web based front-end using HTML, CSS, JQuery, and AngularJS  ? Involved in developing the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  ? Set up the deployment environment on Web Logic Developed system preferences UI screens using JSP and HTML.  ? Develop dynamic features for a healthcare application supporting thousands of international users constructed with CoffeeScript and React.  ? Developed functioning proof-of-concepts and production quality interfaces.  ? Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, React and Redux  ? Worked on developing CRUD applications using MERN stack (MongoDB, Express, ReactJS and NodeJS) and REST based API.  ? Worked in Java, J2EE, XSL, XML, Oracle, DB2, Struts, spring, Hibernate, REST Web services, Model driven architecture and software configuration management tools.  ? Developed HTML, Swing and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  ? Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, Angularjs, JQuery and REST Services  ? Designed and implemented UI layer using JSP, JavaScript, HTML, JSON, XML, XSL, and business logic using Servlets, JSP, EJBs and J2EE framework.  ? Used Backbonejs, Node.js, Bootstrap and other javascript libraries to create intuitive and rich Single Page Applications.  ? Used JQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  ? Prepared statements are used for communication Sql database  ? Involved in developing custom taglibs, JSP, EJB's, Portlets and DB2 - stored procedures.  ? Involved in Requirement analysis, design and Implementation applying the Water fall model.  ? Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  ? Integrate the Oracle BPM with the Spring Framework in the enterprise layer.  ? Involved in packaging, deployment and upgrade of different modules of SAS on JBoss App Server. VB code Analysis and Sybase store procedure converted into SQL    Background Skills: HTML, CSS, Javascript, Ajax, JSON, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Apache Axis, WSDL, Netbeans, JBOSS, , ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, Ant, XML, Jira, Swing, Cognos UI Developer Sprint Corporation - Overland Park, KS September 2009 to November 2011 Sprint Corporation, commonly referred to as Sprint, is an American telecommunications holding company that provides wireless services and is an internet service provider. The company also offers wireless voice, messaging, and broadband services through its various subsidiaries.    Accountabilities:  ? Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  ? Implementing database driven applications in Java using JDBC, JNDI, Entity Beans, Template and Hibernate.  ? Made the application responsive using Bootstrap.  ? Developed user interfaces using JSP, JSP Tag libraries, Struts Tag libraries and Java  Script to simplify the complexities of the application.  ? Involved in web designing using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and extensively used Table less Design in CSS for positioning.  ? After making the applications to be responsive, worked on different mobile devices bugs (like ios and android).  ? Implemented custom data structures using java collection framework.  ? Developed page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management review.  ? Integrated Hibernate ORM with Spring-Hibernate framework to facilitate DML and DQL queries and represent object-database mapping.  ? Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Jquery.  ? Used jQuery to make the HTML, DHTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  ? Developed the application module in Java based on the feasibility study.  ? Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop.  ? Used Adobe Experience manager for building websites, mobile apps and forms.  ? Developed client-side AJAX application that uses XSLT, XPath, JavaScript OOP, and more Bind objects and retrieve them via JNDI interface.    Background Skills: HTML, CSS, Javascript, Java, Ajax, JSON, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Apache Axis, WSDL, , JBOSS, Mercurial, Coherence, ClearCase, Selenium, UML, JSP, Servlet, Ant, XML, Jira, Swing, Cognos Software Developer Navisys - Charlotte, NC June 2008 to August 2009 Accountabilities:  ? Worked on various UI technologies like JSF, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JSP tag libraries.  ? Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using JQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, Auto Complete, JSON, Angular JS, JavaScript, Bootstrap.  ? Implemented JAVA/J2EE design patterns such as Factory, Template, MVC, Singleton.  ? Made the web pages Responsive using JQuery UI and bootstrap, which can be operated in both PC's and Mobiles.  ? Used advanced JavaScript concepts to validate input fields using regular expression.  ? Extensively used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) along with Responsive Web Design (RWD) to support the web page in Mobile browser as well.  ? Worked with Spring Batch Used Spring ORM module to integrate with Hibernate.  ? Used Bootstrap along with CSS to design web-pages by HTML.  ? Implemented Java and J2EE Design Pattern such as Command, State, Template, Composite, Strategy and Observer.  ? Used Web services (SOAP and RESTful) for transmission of large blocks of XML/JSON.  ? Used Jenkins as continuous integration tool for building archive files and snapshots for all applications.  ? Worked on DOM manipulation using JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  ? Used the various Complex data structures in collections Framework in Java/J2EE for building the Business Logic.  ? Added analytics and tagging functionality for all the existing pages to track all the user actions using JavaScript.  ? Worked with CSS background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors.  ? Tested the application under Scrum (Agile) Methodology.  ? Created Test strategy, Test plan, execution plan and Identified test data requirements.  ? Worked on major bug fixes, which included UI issues and functionality issues as well    Background Skills: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Java, JQuery, DHTML, DOM, JSON, Bootstrap, AJAX, Adobe Flash, Photoshop, AEM, PLSQL, Oracle, Windows Education Bachelor's Skills MYSQL (8 years), ORACLE (7 years), DB2 (6 years), JBOSS (4 years), ECLIPSE (3 years), HTML (7 years), CSS3 (4 years), angular.js (6 years), Javascript (9 years), react.js (3 years), vue.js (2 years), Front End, UI, React, Front-End, Angular Additional Information ADDITIONAL TECH SKILLS  ? SQLServer, Oracle, MySQL, DB2, JBoss, WebSphere, Saga, Tomcat, BEA WebLogic, Eclipse, Flex Builder, NetBeans, RSA, MS Visio, Windows , Linux , Unix