Application Developer 3 Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> 3 SQL Developer / BI Developer / Data Analyst Weston, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application Developer 3 Comcast - Sunrise, FL November 2018 to April 2019 ? Executed and monitored time sensitive, large scale Macros coordinating with different teams and leaderships.  ? Re-wrote and optimized the extract query for KPI report automation.  ? Designed and Built ETL/SSIS processes moving and transforming data with Bulk Insert/File Transfer/XML/various DBs. Application Developer 2 Comcast - Sunrise, FL January 2007 to October 2018 12+ year experience as a SQL Developer working with large, performance-intensive databases, using SQL  Server 2005/2008/2012 writing PL SQL/T-SQL procedures with minimal guidance.  ? Designed, developed and implemented daily/weekly/monthly ETLs from various source systems.  ? Built high-level subscriber reports, metrics, audit reports, ad-hoc reports and dashboard using SSRS.  ? Mainly working with leadership from Finance for subscriber reports and audit reports, but also working with various departments like Marketing, TechOps, Engineering, Sales etc to meet business and technical requirements and independently develop the solution.  ? Query tuning, strong data analysis skills SEO & Web Developer How2 Group International - Miami, FL November 2003 to January 2007 Designed and Developed www.how2vacation.com (Macromedia Dreamweaver MX, ASP.NET, MS SQL) and other commercial sites.    ? Designed database: MS SQL, stored procedure  ? Database maintenance and regular backup  ? Set up live stats for all sites  ? Set up affiliate programs  ? SEO (Search Engine Optimization)  ? Set up and configured co-lo dedicated web server, dedicated database server, firewalls, in-house developer web  server and developer database server (Windows 2000 Advanced Server, 2003 Server, IIS, MS SQL Server). Account Specialist Samsung - Miami, FL January 1999 to January 2000 Internship in AR/AP/Audit team Education Master of Science in Computer Information Systems University of Miami - Coral Gables, FL 2000 Master of Science in Hotel Management Iowa State University - Ames, IA 1999 Bachelor of Science in Accounting The Catholic University of Korea - Seoul, KR 1997 Skills T-SQL (10+ years), SSRS (10+ years), SSIS (10+ years), PL-SQL