Sr. Business Analyst Sr. Business Analyst Sr. Business Analyst California City, CA • Seasoned IT Professional with strong Business Analysis and Software Development experience  in USA and India  • Expertise in managing the complete lifecycle of product requirements  • Excellent experience in communicating with users, resolving problems, and meeting specific  technical and business needs  • Strong analytical reasoning and problem solving capabilities  • Expertise in scrubbing, maturing and prioritizing changes  • Expert in Team Management, coordinating resources, prioritizing activities, establish goals,  schedules and success criteria  • Strong experience working in agile development cycle  • Proficient in creating user stories with acceptance criteria and process mapping  • Expert at understanding the AS-IS system, analyze the shortcomings and improve the design of  the TO-BE system  • Excellent Presentation and Facilitation skills  • Organized weekly Project Status and Task Review meetings  • Excellent written and verbal communication skills and comfortable communicating across all  levels within an organization as well as with technical and non-technical individuals    Tools /Technologies expertise    • Requirements Gathering, Requirements Analysis, Business Process Modeling, Use Case  Modeling, Use Case Development, User Stories, Jira, Confluence, Business Process Analysis,  Agile Methodology, Scrum, RALLY, Change Management  • RDBMS, HTML, SQL, ASP, VBScript, JavaScript.  • Microsoft Windows 8, Microsoft IIS, Microsoft SQL Server.  • Microsoft Visual Studio, Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop.  • MagicDraw, Microsoft SharePoint, Visual SourceSafe, Bugzilla  • Microsoft Office Suite - Excel, Office, Visio, PowerPoint Work Experience Sr. Business Analyst Eurofins IT Solutions January 2017 to March 2019 Sr. Business Analyst for Transversal Solutions team that delivers solutions addressing real time needs for various functional scopes.    Core Deliverables/Responsibilities:  • Analyzed and gathered the requirements for the multiple systems implemented across the different business units worldwide  • Interviewed stakeholders in Europe to elicit, review and improve user requirements and functional specifications that included functional tests description and acceptance criteria  • Prepared and updated user stories and acceptance criteria during the whole development  process that reflected developments to be performed  • Developed and regularly updated Domain Models and Physical Models for the solutions  • Prioritized, escalated and followed-up on timely manner all issues/blockers and effectively  managed the resolution of all requests within acceptable service levels  • Prepare, prioritized and maintained Product Backlog  • Organized and led backlog grooming sessions  • Reviewed Test Scenarios and Test Cases, providing input to specification. Ensured that  extensive Test Cases are properly written / updated and validated in close collaboration with QA  Test team for new or updated features  • Extensively tested new functionalities delivered by the Development team before their delivery, reported issues and followed up on them until delivered functionalities reached the expected level  of quality  • Contributed to troubleshooting, tests and documentation of applications functions, at a high- quality level  • Collaborated closely with the development team to resolve any issues  • Coordinated Pre-UAT and UAT communications with stakeholders and ensured successful  deployment of solution in the respective environments  • Consolidated Pre-UAT and UAT feedbacks and worked with development and other applications  teams for their successful and timely resolution/closure  • Headed and delivered KT/training sessions to Integration and Customer support teams  • Independently led the Accreditation Trail project from India, leading a team of 6 developers and testers. Successfully  • Presented project status and road map to the senior management in Indian and Europe Sr. Business Analyst Emids Technologies January 2016 to December 2016 As a Sr. Business Analyst in the project, I was responsible for managing and analyzing business  requirements with the ability to prioritize during changes and conflicts. Independently facilitating user  groups and driving consensus, continuously ensuring excellent quality solutions to client's requirements and its related tasks.    I was closely and continuously interacting with product owners, globally located stakeholders, project  managers and Dev/QA team and ensure that everyone understands the problem, the solution and is  working towards single goal of delivering above and beyond client expectations. Business Analyst June 2014 to December 2015 As a key Business Analyst at Tangoe, I am responsible for delivering solutions for business after detailed  requirement analysis. Also working closely with various teams - Business, Quality Assurance, Development, etc and delivering detailed design and functional specifications.    Core Deliverables/Responsibilities:  • Closely interacting with PMs/Stakeholders to understand their business needs and gathering  requirements.  • Identified ways to assist product management in product planning through requirements  development and analysis. Propose new product features and updates  • Lead requirements validation activities to confirm that a solution based on the requirements would  meet customer needs and achieve the business objectives  • Performing in-depth analysis of the requirements, resolution of any gaps and conflicts in requirements and coming up with final solution approach.  • Preparing and delivering a detailed and robust Functional Specification document for the technical team.  • Closely worked with UI/UX team for the design of the application.  • Create demo scenarios, user stories and acceptance criteria, functional specifications and requirement documentations.  • In depth walkthrough of the SRS document with DEV and QA teams to help them thoroughly  understand the requirement and the design solution from the business and users perspective.  • Managing changes to requirements as the system is developed and deployed.  • Set up triage meetings to address issues from QA team and help resolve them with the Dev  team  • Working closely with dev and QA teams throughout and answering there queries during design  phase  • Organized and delivered final stakeholders demos.  • Closely interacting with senior leads and management to help them keep track of development  and status of the requirements.  • Leading daily scrum meetings to ensure that the whole team is in synch and on track.  • Helping expand the BA team by strictly screening and interviewing the potential candidates for hiring.  • Mentoring and enabling the new team members to come up to speed ASAP and start delivering  effective solutions. Program Associate MSIT - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2012 to May 2013 As a technical program associate I was responsible for design specifications and implementation of features in collaboration with senior PM and worked closely with the business team and  Dev/Test/Operations.    Core Deliverables/Responsibilities:  • Created decision tree for the senior management and helped move the project for upcoming  release  • Worked closely with OPS and solution delivery team to understand the requirements and help  come up with the solution approach  • Delivered functional specifications for the project on time without any s1/s2 defects  • Set up triage meetings to address issues from QA team and help resolve them with the Dev team  • Worked closely with dev team throughout and answered there queries during design phase  • Implemented end to end traceability thru VSTF  • Participated in Bug bash, reported bugs and proposed solution for better user experience  • ERs - Worked closely with different developers and QA team members to understand the as-is  process. Proposed the to-be solution and delivered Functional Specifications for various  Enhancement requests. Business Analyst PayPal Inc - San Jose, CA 2008 to 2011 Being a member of PayPal Data Management group, I worked with employees across PayPal to ensure  that they are highly effective at accessing and using data in support of critical business decisions.    Worked closely with the End User Programs team manager in both a strategic and tactical capacity to evaluate the success of the team's programs at all times, drive enhancement projects to improve their  programs' value to the business, and work with other teams to oversee the integration of technical  systems.    • Solely responsible for providing end user support for the whole Data Management team at PayPal and enhancing the support knowledge base.  • Responsible for gathering requirements for enhancements and new features in the current  support system, transferring those requirements to the development team through user stories in Agile, and keeping track of the whole development process till deployment.  • Worked with other Data Management teams on envisioning technical enhancements and integration of content and support systems  • Facilitated the concept, design, and delivery phases of technical training events.    Played a key role on defining the product and functionality for Clothing, Shoes & Accessories on eBay's  corporate web site.    • Responsible for understanding and synthesizing feedback from beta customers and provide latest  reports to upper management.  • Worked with business, development, design, analytics and quality assurance teams to launch the revamped site.  • Interviewed different SMEs and gathered requirements. Ensured that  enhancements/requirements for the next release are properly tracked and documented.    Key person to help build PayPal - Trinity's Content Management System.    • Conducted interviews with different SMEs to understand their issues with the current system  and understand their expectations from the new system.  • Functioned as the key liaison between the project team and other groups for gathering all the requirements.  • Responsible for UI design of the system.  • Conducted meetings between the team members and management to track the project and updating the managers with the status.  • Responsible for migrating content from current system onto the new system.  • Interfaced with different SMEs to make sure that the new system has all the required and updated  content.  • Successfully launched the new system on time with excellent feedback from various groups  and management. Software Developer Moonstone Interactive, CA 2006 to 2008 Moonstone Interactive is a web design firm based in the San Francisco Bay Area that combines business  savvy, user-centered design, and technological expertise to create web marketing strategies and effective  websites.    As a member of the technical team, I was responsible for developing new and maintaining/enhancing  existing web applications for clients as well as for the company.  Website Management System - The system facilitates managing various websites/domains for clients. It  enables users to view the Domain list, Add and Updating Domains and websites being managed by the company for a wide list of clients. I was responsible for the whole system that included DB design and  coding.  Environment: Windows 2000, Microsoft IIS, ASP.Net, ADO.Net, SQL Server 2000, SQL, Microsoft Visual  Studio 2005, Macromedia Dreamweaver 8, Adobe Photoshop CS2 Web Developer Agilent Technologies, CA 2006 to 2006 As a key member of the eMarketing team, I was responsible for assisting in the management and maintenance of website content through coordination with content owners, UI design & development, to  take care of announcement and presentation of new products on to the external website.    • Conducted walkthroughs and meetings with different product managers and representatives of the higher management to have a deeper understanding of the requirements.  • Functioned as the key liaison between the business, operations, and technical groups.  • Actively involved with UI team  • Generated reports for senior management based on results from web analytics tool. Analyzed the visitor behavior and found the products/sections that needed more attention/visibility  • Actively involved with the offshore QA team to make sure that all the issues are resolved as per the expectations and within time. Education Masters in Computer Management in Computer Management University of Pune Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/shalinichadhasapra