Freelance Web Developer/Designer Freelance <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Designer Las Vegas, NV A presentable, articulate and energetic professional who has the drive to not only do well for herself, but also for others. Nichasie has a long history of offering the highest level of service to clients both face to face, online and over the telephone. She has experience providing a friendly and efficient service within a fast paced and challenging environment. Her key strengths lie in being tactful and diplomatic when dealing with difficult situations, and in being a strong point of contact with customers. With her present employer she has been instrumental in helping them to achieve their sales results and is responsible for maximizing their profitability. She has extensive experience working in a customer-facing role and would be comfortable in any highly visible position that requires an entrepreneurial individual. She is suitable with a company that offers its staff unlimited earning potential and an innovative, team-oriented environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance Web Developer/Designer 3 Anjos Inc. - Las Vegas, NV August 2007 to Present • Oversee production of Web and interactive projects for this provider of integrated marketing, graphic design and web technology solutions.  • Manage Web and interactive communications project from initial consultation through successful launch.  • Develop and maintain long-term client relationships.  • Create and monitor schedules, deliverables and internal and vendor resources to deliver projects on time and on budget.  • Develop and manage departmental process and quality assurance measures.  • Develop user interface, general architecture and navigation systems for client websites.  • Facilitate search engine optimization (SEO) and search engine marketing (SEM) efforts for clients and employer, including traffic analysis and reporting.  • Provide short- and long-term web strategy for clients.  • Develop RFP responses, proposals and cost estimates.  • Act as technical representative in sales efforts with potential clients.  • Contribute to company-wide hardware and software purchases and related vendors.  • Contribute to the development and/or editing of client and in-house marketing and sales materials.  • Contribute to technical innovation and overall business direction. Senior Web Designer/ Developer WC Equestrian - Las Vegas, NV October 2015 to January 2017 • Successful Search Engine Optimization.  • Testing a website & identifying bugs & technical problems.  • Developing cross-browser and cross-platform compatible solutions.  • Implementation of PHP, HTML, XHTML, CSS, XML and JavaScript/jQuery.  • Creating websites that are user-friendly, effective and appealing.  • Producing, modifying and maintaining websites and web applications.  • Creating quality web pages.  • Establishing the purpose of the website based upon its target audience.  • Providing innovative new ideas and solutions to problems.  • Juggling priorities and multiple projects.  • Learning new technologies and keeping abreast of markets developments.  • Implementing creativity and imagination.  • Adapt to and pick up new techniques.  • Social Media Monetization Strategies.  • Knowledge of payment processing, customs clearance and multi-currency pricing.  • Implementation of international web standards and protocols.  • Thorough and precise.  • Effectively organize own workload whilst prioritizing tasks.  • Quickly understanding business requirements and then translate these into functional requirements.  • Passionate for customer service & respond quickly to inquiries.  • Manage multiple projects in a fast-paced, deadline-driven environment.  • Adaptable and able to quickly pick up new techniques.  • Understanding of W3C standards, web accessibility & best practice.  • Handle criticism well and learn from it.  • At times work in a multi-disciplined team that includes designers, developers, consultants, and Project Managers.  • Working to short lead times.    Key Personal Skills Applied:    • Creative thinker  • Imaginative  • Energetic  • Deadline led  • Initiative  • Attention to detail  • Innovative  • Tactful & articulate  • Problem solving  • Reliable  • Team player  • Project management  • Analytical    Comprehensive Knowledge Of:    • Website design  • E-commerce  • Mobile devices  • Animations  • Front end coding  • Database solutions  • Trouble shooting  • Content Creation Sales Representative Blue Group Distribution - Las Vegas, NV February 2015 to July 2015 • Responsible for driving aggressive growth within a specific territory and for providing clients with a world-class customer experience.  • Being the first point of contact with customers.  • Making presentations to groups at company-sponsored gatherings.  • Handling all the administrative aspects of a sale.  • Planning future follow-up conversations with customers.  • Evaluating the needs of customers.  • Selling products to new and existing customers.  • Writing up customer contracts and warranties.  • Provide timely and relevant follow-up to customers.  • Accepting customer payments.  • Carrying out periodic customer service surveys.  • Coordinating the use of marketing tools and resources.  • Maintaining the professional appearance and cleanliness of a showroom.  • Explaining pricing plans, promotions and special offers to customers.  • Filing in completed order forms.  • Generating new business through leads & referrals.  • Conducting policy reviews and coming up with conclusions.  • Utilizing proven sales techniques to gain new customers.  • Scheduling fact-finding appointments with customers. Commission Sales Associate Nordstrom - Las Vegas, NV January 2015 to April 2015 • Dealing with a broad range of customers.  • Developing sales tools.  • Remote selling by telephone or email.  • Arranging for the alterations of any goods that have been sold.  • Making phone calls to schedule meetings with potential customers.  • Always following the company's compliance guidelines.  • Gaining a thorough understanding of every customers' needs in order to offer them the best solution.  • Pinpointing to customers the exact way in which a product or service will meet their precise needs.  • Taking orders for products or services and then filling in the necessary paperwork.  • Tracking a competitors' goods, prices and sales.  • Doing everything possible to get to know the customers better.  • Getting to know the customers buying pattern.  • Ensuring a quick turnaround of inquiries and the delivery of services.  • Maintaining clear records of all sales activities.  • Gathering as much positive information as possible about the goods being sold.  • Training customers in how to use products.  • Planning future follow-up conversations with customers.  • Answering customer questions in a professional way.  • Upselling add-ons to customers.  • Approaching walk in customers.  • Answering customers who are concerned about the price.  • Compiling and maintaining a customer database that documents appropriate customer information and contacts.  • Reviewing customer interactions and then identifying things that I could have done better.  • Asking questions to understand a customer's needs.  • Increasing sales of products with existing customers.  • Making sales calls to customers to maintain existing business relationships.  • Developing sales action plans.  • Reducing shrinkage by managing loss prevention techniques.  • Handling all administrative aspects of department opening and closing. Seasonal Customer Service Advisor SEPHORA - Beachwood, OH October 2004 to February 2005 • Responsible for delivering total satisfaction to customers which will leave them feeling fully satisfied.  • Answering customer questions regarding products.  • Asking customers questions in order to build a better understanding of their needs.  • Preparing sales areas.  • Checking the shop floor for out-of-date and damaged products.  • Encouraging customers to buy products and services.  • Organizing the shipping of goods to customers.  • Listening out for and identifying opportunities to cross sell additional products and services.  • Logging information onto computer systems.  • Meeting and greeting customers in a friendly and timely manner.  • Engaging in conversation with customers.  • Preparing invoices at the time of service and processing payment.  • Carrying out customer service assessments to identify and prioritize needs.  • Maintaining a thorough understanding of all company products and processes.  • Answering incoming showroom calls.  • Confirming orders placed by customers via the phone, post and internet. Sales Associate Cashier Payless ShoeSource - Cleveland, OH August 2003 to February 2004 • Responsible for talking to customers in an enthusiastic and tactful way and for resolving any service issues or complaints they may have.  • Answering customer questions regarding products.  • Asking customers questions in order to build a better understanding of their needs.  • Preparing sales areas.  • Checking the shop floor for out-of-date and damaged products.  • Encouraging customers to buy products and services.  • Organizing the shipping of goods to customers.  • Listening out for and identifying opportunities to cross sell additional products and services.  • Logging information onto computer systems.  • Meeting and greeting customers in a friendly and timely manner.  • Engaging in conversation with customers.  • Carrying out customer service assessments to identify and prioritize needs.  • Maintaining a thorough understanding of all company products and processes.  • Confirming orders placed by customers via the phone and post. Education Bar Management Crescent City Bartending School 2017 to 2018 Bachelor's degree in Merchandising and Buying Operations Westwood College 2007 to 2010 Inner State Beauty School 2003 to 2004 Cosmetology and Related Personal Grooming Services Academy Of Hair Design 1995 to 1996 Associate's degree in Business Administration and Management Cuyahoga Community College 1993 to 1995 Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), Customer Service (10+ years), Account Management (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), SEO (7 years), Marketing (10+ years), Administrative Support (10+ years), Management (10+ years), .NET (6 years), SQL (6 years), C# (7 years), MVVM (7 years), Middle Level Developer (5 years), .Net Framework (2 years), Overall Development Experience (10+ years), Customer Care, Call Center, Customer Support, CSR, CSR Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/nimiller Groups USBG Las Vegas Ch February 2018 to Present Aurora Alumni October 2011 to Present