Front End Developer Front End <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack JavaScript Developer with Great Interpersonal and Communication Skills Ogden, UT My Skills:  • Server Side (RESTful) API Architecture  • Deep Understanding of JavaScript WebAPI and Execution Context  • Deep Understanding of JavaScript Runtime Environment and Execution Context  • JavaScript  • Angular  • Node.js + Express  • Experience Mongodb  • Experience Jasmine / Karma  • Comfortable with React  • Comfortable with Vue.js  • Comfortable with C# and .net core/mvc  • Comfortable with SQL PostgreSQL / MicrosoftSQL / MySQL  • Decent Knowledge + Hobby Experience C++  • Limited Experience with Clojure WebAPI  • Tutorial Exposure with Java / Kotlin  • Tutorial Exposure with PHP    I am a talented, online taught web developer, currently working as a front-end developer on enterprise sales marketing and HR applications using Angular 7 with a Clojure+JVM Web API and MySQL (since 12/2018). I also support a mobile version of my company's application which is built in ionic 4. To this "professional" experience I add 3 + years of freelance web application development including complex applications interfacing with RETS/MLS servers and Google Maps API Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Developer CALIBER COMMUNICATIONS - Provo, UT December 2018 to Present Front end developer with Angular 7 Ionic 3 - Clojure+JVM Web API Freelance Web Developer UNADYNE SYSTEMS CORPORATION - Ogden, UT March 2015 to Present I am a talented full stack (MEAN Stack) developer. I learned using Pluralsight, Udemy and Lynda. I have had a few clients who were very happy with my work. I am also very comfortable doing dev-ops with Linux/Apache or Linux/NGINX. Supervisory Border Patrol Agent U.S. Border Patrol - Casa Grande, AZ July 2004 to September 2017 Supervised patrol groups as large as 65 Border Patrol Agents as well as filling in for my direct  supervisor  many times during their absence. Has supervised the following specialty units.  ? Disrupt Unit (plain clothes investigative unit)  ? Horse Patrol Unit  ? Motorcycle Unit (off road motorcycle patrol and interdiction)  ? Mobile Surveillance System Team  ? ASID Unit (plain clothes human intelligence collections unit)    Has also served as Acting Field Operations Supervisor and Acting Watch Commander on a day by day  basis as well as extended periods. Owner Cortright Clothing Company - Arizona City, AZ January 2009 to December 2015 I owned and operated a small screen printing company from my home. Maintained supply chain,  accounting, quality control, customer service, and sales required to keep my business productive. This  was a side business which became so successful that I was forced to sell it because hiring employees  would have created a conflict of interest with my job as a Border Patrol Agent. My best year I designed,  printed and sold over 15,000 units of printed apparel. Owner C & C FARMS - Eloy, AZ March 2003 to October 2006 I leased a 40 acre farm and grew Bermuda grass for hay and grazing as a side business while employed as a Border Patrol Agent. I was the owner and employee and was very successful with  operations and marketing; so much so that the owner of the land I leased bought out the remaining  four years of my lease including projected net profits. Border Patrol Agent U.S. Border Patrol - Casa Grande, AZ September 1997 to July 2004 Patrolling a very large and remote portion of the Tohono O'odham Nation. Responsible for detecting  undocumented aliens or drug smugglers that may be crossing the forty eight mile  stretch of border in the Casa Grande Border Patrol station's area of operations. Also  conducted traffic observation and interdiction on the routes out of the Tohono O'odham  Nation. Responded to other law enforcement agencies calls for assistance when it  involved undocumented aliens. Has been assigned to following specialty units.    ? Motorcycle Unit  ? Disrupt Unit  ? Horse Patrol  ? Sensor Technician  ? FLIR Scope Unit Education Central Arizona College 1992 to 1994 Skills JAVASCRIPT (4 years), Angular, Wordpress, C#, NET, PHP, html, mysql, HTML5, Bootstrap, Jquery, Front End Links https://github.com/UNADYNE Publications Current Project (in development) https://jobreadi.com 2019-08 Current side project slated for MVP ~September 2019 Additional Information Skills    Fluent/Native Spanish R/W/S, Outdoor Navigation, Full Stack JavaScript (Angular), Adobe Creative Suite