Freelance web design and multimedia development enterprise Freelance <span class="hl">web</span> design and multimedia development enterprise Freelance web design and multimedia development enterprise - 1776 STUDIOS Albuquerque, NM Website designer, developer, and programmer with 13 years experience and professional accomplishments in audio  production and photography with functional experience in all disciplines of multimedia development. Hands-on  expertise in continuous-flow technological, government, marketing, advertising, and contracting environments. High  energy, results-oriented professional with excellent leadership and interpersonal skills. Emphasizes quality and  company success through communication, employee involvement, and participation. Knowledgeable and practical  business strategist with direct experience in the following areas:    ? Website Design and Development ? Audio Production  ? Programming ? Video Production  ? Photography ? Graphic Design Work Experience Freelance web design and multimedia development enterprise 1776 STUDIOS - Albuquerque, NM January 2010 to Present Owner/President  Direct responsibilities include design and development of websites and other multimedia outlets while adhering to the creative vision of the client, and backend consultation and programming for nationwide clients. Responsible for  all business activities including production, quality, and client interaction. Critical success factors are timely  communication, strategic planning, time management skills, and interpersonal skills.    ? Design and development of websites for a wide variety of clients including local and national corporations.  ? Proficiency and a fluent understanding of programming languages including PHP, MySQL, and Java.  ? Responsible for all communications and interactions between the client and business.  ? Implementation and understanding of the technical and creative aspects of photography.  ? Fluent knowledge of audio production, recording, and mixing ranging from voice-overs to musical productions.  ? Position requires expertise in video production and editing, including motion graphics.  ? Requires skills in consultation, including support in creative direction and technological trends.  ? Proficiency in logo and graphic design.  ? Responsible for implementation, security, and functionality of web forms handling up to $5,000 per submission. Web Developer and Senior Programmer Edit House Productions, LLC - Rio Rancho, NM September 2015 to December 2017 advertising and multimedia agency based in Rio Rancho, New Mexico.    Web Developer and Senior Programmer  Direct responsibilities include design and development of websites while adhering to the creative vision of the client, and server/website administration for over 70 clients and websites. Responsible for all daily functionality of  websites and servers utilizing Linux and WHM. Critical success factors are creative problem solving, time  management, and communication.    ? Design and development of websites for a variety of clients including local businesses and government entities.  ? Clients include New Mexico State Police and Albuquerque Police Department.  ? Proficiency and a fluent understanding of programming languages including PHP and MySQL.  ? Responsible for implementation of Linux as a company standard for server administration.  ? Responsible for implementation of responsive design and media queries as a company standard.  ? Fluency in Google Analytics and AdWords and their implementation into both new and existing websites.  ? Requires meetings with clients and an ability to effectively communicate complex technological information.  ? Requires fluent knowledge in Joomla, WordPress, Drupal, and Bootstrap.  ? Proficiency in logo and graphic design. Multimedia Developer/Senior Programmer ENTEREZA, INC - Albuquerque, NM March 2013 to March 2015 Albuquerque, NM March 2013-March 2015  Entereza, Inc. has been developing and evaluating learning solutions and programmatic initiatives for over 12 years.    Multimedia Developer/Senior Programmer  Functional responsibilities included design and development of online training modules while adhering to strict  contractual and government requirements, including 508 compliance. In addition to functional responsibilities,  position required strategic planning, leading and organization of the operational activities. Required solid technical  expertise and time management skills.    ? Responsible for the development and application of training modules/websites within their respective platforms.  ? Clients include the United States Coast Guard and Transportation Security Administration.  ? Requires extensive communication and teamwork between team members and other departments.  ? Position requires personal training of new multimedia employees.  ? Large portion of development requires knowledge in local backend programming in jQuery.  ? Requires extensive knowledge and fluency in Actionscript, as well as audio production.  ? Fluency in database management including custom scripts in PHP and MySQL.  ? Utilizes understanding of technological advancements to implement HTML5 and CSS3 as a company standard.  ? Responsible for quality control of deliverables for several multi-million dollar contracts. Graphics Team Manager COWBOYS-FORUM.COM, Abeline, TX June 2005 to March 2010 June 2005-March 2010  The fastest growing online discussion forum dedicated to the Dallas Cowboys. (Defunct as of 2016)    Graphics Team Manager  Telecommuting position. Direct responsibilities included graphic design, website maintenance, and management of the Graphic Design Team.    ? Responsible for the day to day technical operation of website.  ? Required extensive database management and debugging skills for thousands of queries.  ? Responsible for the supervision and management of the Graphic Design Team.  ? Position required consistent designs to be completed on a weekly basis.  ? Critical factor in success included the ability to delegate responsibilities among team members.  ? Position required enforcement of forum rules as a forum Administrator. Education Cibola High School - Albuquerque, NM Skills BOOTSTRAP (5 years), PHP (10+ years), MYSQL (10+ years), JAVA (5 years), LINUX (10+ years), Adobe, Graphic Design, Marketing, Photoshop, Illustrator, Adobe, Graphic Design, Illustrator, Marketing, Photoshop, Typography, Wordpress, After Effects, PostgreSQL, SQL, HTML5, Database Administration, JavaScript Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS    Windows, Mac, Linux, HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, jQuery, Ajax, PHP, MySQL, Joomla, WordPress, Drupal,  Bootstrap, Microsoft Office, Photoshop, Illustrator, Dreamweaver, Lightroom, After Effects, Premier Pro, Flash, 3D  Studio Max, FL Studio, Cubase, Pro Tools, Java, Actionscript.