Web and Digital Marketing Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> and Digital Marketing <span class="hl">Developer</span> Junior Web Designer & Developer Harrisburg, PA A results-driven college graduate seeking a Web Developer position. Committed to bringing top notch design, coding and programming skills to creative and challenging projects. Is always looking for ways to develop and improve and is excited to grow within the company and become part of a cohesive team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web and Digital Marketing Developer Allegheny County Bar Association - Pittsburgh, PA June 2018 to Present I manage content for all ACBA related websites, social media, e-newsletters and email marketing. Freelance Web Designer/ Developer World Wright Web - Harrisburg, PA February 2018 to Present Offering logo, branding and web development skills in a freelance capacity.    Created logos for clients.  Currently developing Glamour Blades ECommerce Wordpress site. Sales Advisor H&M - Harrisburg, PA July 2016 to February 2018 Duties include customer service, department moves, price adjustments and securing product from truck to floor.    Assisted in store’s grand opening.  Routinely trains and mentors new sales advisors.  Consistently achieved goal in sales, which resulted in bonus pay for three months in a row. Executive Assistant AC Valuations - Harrisburg, PA July 2015 to May 2016 Duties included maintaining schedule and inspections, drafting and editing reports, marketing company to prospective clients and daily office management.    Successfully secured four banks as new clients for the company.  Participated in company growth by interviewing and hiring three full-time employees.  Researched and provided a decrease in spending of office supplies by 11%.  Increased company’s profile by organizing volunteering efforts within the community. Executive Assistant Governor's Office January 2015 to July 2015 Duties included drafting letters of recognition and support on the Governor's behalf, organizing correspondence sent to the Governor, assisting constituents via phone calls and coordinating with Governor's schedule with his personal assistant.    Created an efficient system to draft and organize correspondence.  Trained new executive assistants in constituent engagement via phone calls and e-mails.  Created a comprehensive contact information guide on all departments of government for executive assistants. Executive Assistant Tom Wolf Transition Team - Harrisburg, PA November 2014 to January 2015 Duties included maintaining the schedule of Mary Isenhour, screening phone calls and e-mails and various other office tasks.    Created a comprehensive list of qualified people seeking employment from Transition database.  Established seamless schedule for Isenhour's phone, tablet and e-mail so that quick changes and cancellations could be viewed immediately.  Worked on finalizing a list of approved applicants for Isenhour's Department of State. Education ASSOCIATE OF ARTS in Web Development & Design Harrisburg Area Community College 2016 to 2018 BACHELORS OF ARTS in Political Science University of Pittsburgh 2008 to 2014 Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), Microsoft Visual Studio (3 years), Adobe Creative Cloud (3 years), Bootstrap (3 years), Wordpress (1 year), HTML5 (5 years), CSS3 (5 years), Javascript (2 years), JQuery (2 years), XML (2 years), SVG/Raster Images (3 years), Logo Design (2 years), Front End, HTML, PHP Links http://linkedin.com/in/riceashley http://www.ashleyrice.io Certifications/Licenses Google Analytics June 2019 to May 2021 Certified in Begginer, Advanced, Power Users.