Sr. Software Engineer Sr. Software Engineer Sr. Software Engineer - Sportech Cumming, GA SQL Developer specializing in reports, front and backend development. Experienced with converting legacy applications. Well-versed in numerous programming languages and currently working in, MS T-SQL, SSRS, MySQL, Crystal Reports, MyDBR, Delphi, VB and C++. Work Experience Sr. Software Engineer Sportech February 2017 to Present Primary responsibilities include:  • Took over role of management for the team and other lead roles through project design, estimates for projects, and coordinating other team members.  • Provided training to new members of the team.  • Collaborate with project stakeholders and technical teams regarding enhancements, changes or issues that may impact development, data, workflow or functionality.  • Performed QA testing to verify the development of other team members and provide any support needed.  • Supported the end user community through assistance, training, and any other guidance needed through our applications.  • Troubleshoot issues that occurred with interrelated systems or programs by determining the nature, scope, and priority of the problem and developing and implementing solutions.  • Install updates to production systems and assist operations in testing and support.  • Design, develop, test, debug, and document programs, reports and SQL scripts for upgrades.  • Worked with: Microsoft SQL and writing stored procedures, Reports, Views, Linked Servers to other clients, Access met records for other development teams.  • Database maintenance, backups, SQL Job alert support and creation.  • MS Server 2003 and 2012 server installations and maintenance for customer's web and SQL servers.  • Design and develop AD HOC reports for internal business when needed, using MS SQL, Excel.  • Design and develop Crystal reports for the customers when projects are requested using MS SQL, Crystal Reports.  • Light work with: Linux, C++, VB .NET, Java, Delphi, MyDBR Reporting.  • Designed and data gathered for the rewrite of MS SQL and Crystal Reports to Delphi and MyDBR, MySQL.  • Managed and supported: IVR, Plum, JRun, and Tomcat Applications. Web Developer Transamerica February 2006 to December 2016 Primary responsibilities include:  • Converted legacy applications to use newer technology for better performance and reporting.  • Redesigned old VB6 laptop application used by sales to a light weight web based application for reporting using VB.net and SSRS.  • Provided AD HOC reporting to accounting and sales using MS SQL and SSRS.  • Designed and implemented SSRS reports using SSIS to display daily accounting activities used in business with PayPal and sales agent's payments.  • Worked with a team to convert VB6 single payment e-commerce app to use PayPal API with C#, MVC 4 Razor, JSON, using Orchard CMS.  • Worked with Agile team to convert iOS mobile app, WFG Drive, to HTML5 and jQuery Mobile using PhoneGap to create Android and iOS applications with one codebase.  • Mentored new hires to become familiar with our job responsibilities.  • Performed design and analysis for deliverable items and provided high level estimates for projects of all sizes.  • Provided recommendations towards simplification and efficiency of the business.  • Worked in a high paced Agile environment to deliver products on schedule. Jr. Network Administrator DocuTeam 2004 to 2006 • Maintained servers running Windows Server 2003 and proficient with IIS.  • Designed site surveys with Visual Studio .Net for copier and printer installs for the user to fill out online instead of faxing or emailing requests.  • Provided internal and external IT support for DocuTeam sales reps and office staff.  • Worked in Active Directory setting up groups, email accounts and profile settings.  • Worked in new office set ups of printers, copiers, work stations and VOIP Phone Systems.  • Maintained customer copier demo area for sales agents to successfully demo the products. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems DeVry University - Alpharetta, GA Skills Visual studio, C#, C++, Delphi, Javascript, Vb.net, Visual sourcesafe, Microsoft visual sourcesafe, Sql, Stored procedures, Html5, jquery, Ssrs, Team foundation server, T-sql, Asp, Css, Asp.net, Sdlc, Crystal reports