Sr. Web Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Web Developer - Cisco Systems, Inc Hayward, CA ? Over 14 years of extensive experience in web based applications.  ? Expert in the use of content management systems such as Joomla, Drupal 7.  ? Created Exposed a preliminary REST API using Doctrine2 entities through JMSS realizer and annotations  ? Expert in writing own code create custom module, theme in front end tools.  ? Expert in using tools Zira, work front and smart sheet.  ? Experienced in use for Marco tools and AEM tools for front end work on development.  ? Expert in Codelgniter, Laravel, Zend, yii. And cake Php,Symphnoy  ? Expert in Distributed Version Control Systems like Mercurial or Git, Web Focus..  ? Strong expertise in Web Application development using PHP with OOPs ,CVS,SVN, MySQL, MS SQL Server 2008/2005/2000 ,JavaScript, PHP, jQuery, Angular.js AJAX, CSS, SASS, Flash ActionScript 3.0 and XML  ? Expert in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using PHP 5.2, PHP 5.3, PHP 4 and PHP5.  ? In-depth experience in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP) architecture.  ? Extensive experience in WAMP (Windows, Apache, My Cake MySQL, PHP) architecture.  ? Excellent skills in Web Technologies like, Java Script, HTML, and XMLRPC,Perl,Python  ? Proficient at search engine optimization using constantly evolving legitimate techniques to improve website ranking in several search engines in the long-term through link development  ? Expert in E-commerce software development cost and schedule, interpreted detailed design specifications and requirements.  ? Experienced on Agile methodology  ? Extensive experience with application software analysis, design, development and testing of web (all the phases of SDLC and quality assurance/testing). Involved in system study, preparation of detailed design (DD), performing and monitoring development (coding), report generation, unit testing and system and integration testing of the application.  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using PHP, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, JavaScript and AJAX technology.  ? Experienced in using Magneto shopping cart and Agile methodology.  ? Experienced in using PayPal integration  ? Competent with PHP MY ADMIN, MySQL database concepts, macromedia flash and SQL.  ? Knowledgeable in integrating readymade shopping cart like ecommerce, XCart.  ? Able to work independently with little or no supervision and a dedicated team player.  ? Highly self-motivated, dedicated, quick learner and has proven ability to build and manage a team. Work Experience Sr. Web Developer Cisco Systems, Inc - San Jose, CA August 2016 to Present In IoT)  Cisco Systems, Inc.is an American multinational technology conglomerate headquartered in San José, California, in the center of Silicon Valley, that develops, manufactures, and sells networking hardware, The Company's switching products offer various forms of connectivity to end users, workstations, Internet Protocol (IP) phones, wireless access points and servers, and also function as aggregators on local-area networks (LANs) and wide-area networks (WANs). The Company's switching systems employ a range of technologies, including Ethernet, Power over Ethernet (PoE), Fiber Channel over Ethernet (FCoE), and Packet over Synchronous Optical Network and Multiprotocol Label Switching. The product platforms within its Switching product category, including storage products, include Fixed-Configuration Switches, Modular Switches and Storage.  Responsibilities: Aug 2016- Present    ? Created websites in PHP, Java script HTML and CSS  ? Write code in php and Symfony framework  ? Responsible for development and maintenance of all company websites, web server administration (Apache on Ubuntu Linux platform), database design and administration (MySQL), content management and maintenance (Drupal 7), Custom PHP development, migrating pre-existing static web content to Drupal.  ? Expert in Responsive Web Design, Mobile Web, App Development and PHP application.  ? Experience hands on OOCSS, performance oriented CSS selector, scalable and modular CSS approach for front-end architecture.  ? Installed, configured and managed Drupal ctools,webform,views,module, installations  ? Developed code in rebuild process of Jenkin to make site attached with dB, and files.  ? Worked on daily base front end content to update, blogs, and articles of site pages.  ? Involved in designing part of site for adding new events and customer story to the site.  ? Manage resource category by using React-JS, Drupal content.  ? Created features implemented with resource content is associated with categories like multimedia, infographics, Webinars, CEUs etc.  ? Created resource content from end display of resource content by title, categories, content title etc.  ? Configure resource thumbnail images and pop up display based on resource content.  ? Responsible for resource data structure configuration to manage resource vocabulary and term resource vocabulary.  ? Create new Module, upgrade modules and develop custom modules from resource form.  ? Implemented different reporting tools search modules to facilitate searches throughout the application  ? Create some resource code for changes in the modules and add new files according to database.  ? User features module for deployment Drupal configuration from local environment to production environment    Professional Experience:  Leotek Electronics USA LLC  PHP WORDPRESS WEB DEVELOPER  Leotek Electronics USA LLC, located in California's Silicon Valley since 1997, and celebrating over twenty years as an LED lighting manufacturer, is globally recognized as a pioneer in light-emitting diode technology. With millions of LED products installed worldwide, Leotek offers a substantial history of proven performance. The company manufactures innovative LED lighting products for applications encompassing traffic and transit; street and area; petroleum, convenience, grocery and retail stores. Leotek is committed to developing emerging solid-state technology that offers greater longevity and environmental viability than traditional lighting sources, while reducing energy consumption and maintenance costs. In 2007, Leotek was acquired by Light-On Group, a multi-billion dollar electronics-manufacturing conglomerate. For more information, please visit www.leotek.com.  Responsibilities: March2016-july 2016  ? Created an events calendar so that important events can be posted and  ? Designed, developed, and maintained Word Press themes  ? Provided technical recommendations to clients and internal teams  ? Generated creative ideas for client programs  ? Designed digital graphics for Webpages and client ad campaigns  ? Manages website hosting and CMS integration for clients  ? Created Handlebars to write semantic HTML markup  ? Created query to prototype interactions for UI states  ? Created automated Grunt/Assemble/nap workflow to compile build  SCS Global Service, Emeryville, CA  PHP DRUPAL DEVELOPER    Scientific Certification Systems, Inc., now doing business as SCS Global Services, is a trusted leader in Third-party environmental, sustainability and food quality certification, auditing, testing and standards development.  We partner with companies, government agencies, and stakeholders worldwide to identify and drive practices, policies and processes that advance the goals of sustainable development and give innovators a competitive advantage. Working with capable leaders across the forestry, green building, energy, agricultural, fisheries, and consumer products sectors, we proudly provide services in every corner of the earth. These services are enabling policy-makers, procurement officers, company decision-makers and consumers to make informed decisions based on the highest level of environmental, ethical and quality accountability.  Responsibilities:  Aug 2014-July2016  ? Created websites in PHP,Javasript HTML and CSS  ? Responsible for development and maintenance of all company websites, web server administration (Apache on Ubuntu Linux platform), database design and administration (MySQL), content management and maintenance (Drupal 7), Custom PHP development, migrating pre-existing static web content to Drupal  ? Installed, configured and managed Drupal ctools,webform,views,module, installations  ? Manage resource category by using Drupal content.  ? Created features implemented with resource content is associated with categories like multimedia, infographics, webinars, CEUs etc.  ? Created resource content from end display of resource content by title, categories, content tittle etc.  ? Configure resource thumbnail images and pop up display based on resource content.  ? Responsible for resource data structure configuration to manage resource vocabulary and term resource vocabulary.  ? Create new Module, upgrade modules and develop custom modules from resource form.  ? Implemented different reporting tools search modules to facilitate searches throughout the application  ? Create some resource code for changes in the modules and add new files according to database.  ? User features module for deployment Drupal configuration from local environment to production environment PHP full stack Developer Rosendin Electric - San Jose, CA August 2013 to August 2014 Rosendin Electric is an electrical contractor headquartered in San Jose, California, with close to 3,300 employees nationwide and an annual revenue of approximately $800 million. Rosendin Electric was incorporated as an electrical contractor in the State of California. Rosendin Electric is also involved in design and construction of wind energy plants, including grids and collection systems. They are currently the fourth largest electrical contractor in the US.  Responsibilities:    ? Developed WordPress MU based websites.  ? Responsible for development and maintenance of all company websites, web server administration (Apache on Ubuntu Linux platform), database design and administration (MySQL), content management and maintenance (Drupal 5.x / 6.x), Custom PHP development, migrating pre-existing static web content to Drupal  ? Experienced in implementing client-side design patterns using object oriented, asynchronous, and functional, SaaS and angular function. Created ad facility for deployment since its build up on web infrastructure in Crawling restful services.  ? Customize PHP E-Commerce applications in (Magneto, ASP.Net, PHP).  ? Customized Word Press plugins and built new custom plugins.  ? Customized Word Press themes.  ? Integrated Word Press based websites with other websites  ? Moved Blogs to WordPress.  ? Installed, configured and managed Word Press installations  ? Developed online tests and interactive support for clients  ? Maintaining SQL server database and updating PHP script  ? Created CMS that managed all aspects of the system from creating data types PHP &WEB Developer Zimmer Canonsburg PA - Canonsburg, PA April 2013 to August 2013 Zimmer is a worldwide leader in musculoskeletal health care and has been since founding more than 80 years ago. The global team of more than 8,500 employees works to provide to provide effective, creative solutions that support orthopedic surgeons and clinicians to restore mobility and treat arthritis and traumatic injuries. Our joint replacement technologies and a wide range of related products and services make us valuable partners to health care providers in more than 100 countries. We designing and building the best possible systems and delivering the most robust package of value-added services to our customers. Zimmer has been a driving force in the rapid growth of the musculoskeletal health care industry. With an unwavering focus on the needs of patients and surgeons.  Responsibilities:    ? Develop and reporting tools document process and procedures  ? Implemented different reporting tools search modules to facilitate searches throughout the application  ? Created JavaScript, Extjs, jQuery, SASS/SCSS,LESS, html5, CSS3, MVC, REST / OData, Java, Struts, Life ray, portlets Implemented different reporting tools search modules to facilitate searches throughout the application  ? Create a Magneto Multi Store Setup, Template customization, Building Custom Templates.  ? Develop Magneto Upgrade Old ver. to Newer, Extension Development (Modules and Widgets)  ? Created Help Desk for user's queries to meet the bulk queries submitted by the users.  ? Maintaining SQL server database and reporting tools updating PHP script.  ? Managing database Updating stored procedure as per the requirement, as per the client requirement  ? Assisted in development of several non-Drupal websites, including the very large TakeMeFishing.org, which utilizes a combination of modX, WordPress, and a custom and social network built with the Zend Framework, all Drupal Commons 3.3,3.4,technologies seamlessly integrated  Created Custom input formatters, CCK formatters, and views formatters  ? Create html5 pages and run script in CSS3, CSS for run reports.  ? Created an html/CSS framework that reduces cross-brows  ? Created generate repetitive HTML5 code  ? Creating new stored procedures and reporting table views.  ? Created Help Desk users Reset password for client partner.  ? Maintaining Reporting site for run new report and edit html pages.  ? Developed report specifications, created and modified reports using SSRS 2005.  ? Designed, deployed, and maintained of various SSRS Reports in SQL Server 2005.  ? Writing Store Procedures and Views for the Dynamic SQL used in ETL  ? Implementing Facts and dimensions for providing views of large sets of data.  ? Designed and developed various Service Management Reports, utilizing Dynamic and Cascading Prompts, sub-reports, charts, parameterized reports, conditional and dynamic reports. PHP&HTML Developer The Home Depot July 2012 to March 2013 THE Home Depot is a U.S.-based supplier of construction and Home improvement services and products. The primary objectives of the Home Decorators collection website program are to rebrand the website and improve the Checkout and My account/my list functionality in order to compete more effectively in the Marketplace and drive in to the conversation rate. Web Development and Search Engine Marketing services for clients in different domains of online business and is the first Google AdWords  it was to checkout Redesign and Site Rebranding. The site Rebranding is a larger part of Strategy to reposition Home Decorators collection in the Marketplace.  Responsibilities:    ? Create The HDC web application is vulnerable to Blind SQL Injection.  ? Google AdWords Campaign Optimization  ? Built in JavaScript using Cross filter and D3.js.  ? Created a social application platform Technology stack includes Angular, Backbone.js, jQuery, Underscore.js, LESS, MySQL.  ? Designed and developed a D3 JS framework that auto-generates CSS,Mysql,angular,LESS,SAAS  ? Create a Magneto Multi Store Setup, Template customization, Building Custom Templates.  ? Crated a Git application in control version system and cvs format.  ? Developed Configurable shims for modular JavaScript. Displayed good UX  ? Google Analytics Custom Reports and framework for used D3 JS,php  ? Developed Programming concepts such as add to cart, view cart, credit card testing for merchant account.  ? Create a team using Sencha Touch and Phone Gap to create Pega's mobile app  ? Designed and developed a Sencha framework that auto-generates CSS and HTML5 page.  ? Served as Scrum Master for two Scrum teams working on UI and Case used with Sencha framework Management  ? Develop a routine to validate and sanitize user-supplied input  ? Implement a password policy in accordance with the THD security policy which should include the following for consumer sites  ? Develop a routine to validate and sanitize user-supplied input. The following input checks should be performed at both the client-side and server-side:  ? Create find wish list functionality provides unique responses when an invalid user name is submitted to the application.  ? Developed Programming concepts such as add to cart, view cart, credit card testing for merchant account.    Environment: PHP, HTML, JavaScript, MYSQL, SVN,CVS,MVC, Drupal, Dreamweaver MX 2004, PHPMYADMIN, Visual Source Safe, MS Excel, JQuery Zend, Cake php Framework,GoogleAdwords, XML RPC ,Perl, Python, Window Server 2003, Microsoft Visio 2003, php report generator, Ajax PHP Full-Stack- Developer Lead Charter Communications Louis Mo March 2012 to June 2012 The charter communication an American company providing cable television, high-speed Internet, and telephone services to more than 4.7 million customers in 25 states. By revenues, it is the fourth-largest cable operator in the United States Designed and implemented formalization of office procedures for growing Internet Company.  Responsibilities:    ? Developed module for online registration.  ? Create device module for adding feature on application  ? Developed Implementing client-side design patterns using object oriented. LESS, SAAS.  ? Created Runtime Php files using Zend framework  ? Created JavaScript, Extjs, jQuery, SASS/SCSS,LESS, html5, CSS3, MVC, REST / OData, Java, Struts, Life ray, portlets Implemented different reporting tools search modules to facilitate searches throughout the application  ? Implemented different search modules and Device Module to facilitate searches throughout the application  ? Create html 5 for reporting tools management.  ? Designed and developed a D3 JS framework that auto-generates CSS,Mysql,angular,LESS,SAAS  ? Served as Scrum Master for two Scrum teams working on UI and Case used with Sencha framework Management  ? Created Exposed a preliminary REST API using Doctrine2 entities through JMSSerializer and annotations  ? Create a Magneto Multi Store Setup, Template customization, Building Custom Templates.  ? Responsible for development and maintenance of all company websites, web server administration (Apache on Ubuntu Linux platform), database design and administration (MySQL), content management and maintenance (Drupal 5.x / 6.x), Custom PHP development, migrating pre-existing static web content to Drupal  ? Server environment levels management; user acceptation, Symphony, production, testing  ? Coach Ericsson employees about the web platform,Doctrine2 and Symphony web development techniques and related established standards  ? Created xml using Perl and python module code.  ? Used Joomla to implement MVC appointment management system.  ? Using three kind of database Granite Database, Oracles, MySQL. Using OSSAPI and ASI web service to connect with client directly.  ? Deployed in Linux Server.  ? Implemented RSS Feed to use this on various websites.    Environment: PHP, HTML5, JavaScript, MYSQL, SVN, D3 JS,Drupal,Symphany, Dreamweaver,sencha, MX 2004, PHPMYADMIN, Visual Source Safe, MS Excel,JqueryZend Framework, Cake phpXML RPC ,Perl, Python, Window Server 2003, Microsoft Visio 2003, php report generator, Ajax PHP Server Side SQL Developer Bank Info Security - Princeton, NJ October 2010 to March 2012 BankInfoSecurity.com was created as a reference tool. BankInfoSecurity.com strongly believes that education on security issues reinforces the need for maintaining customer data confidentiality and integrity, thus improving the long-term security posture of an organization. Because we understand the community banking community, BankInfoSecurity.com was able to establish a medium whose content was personalized and appropriate for the industry.  Responsibilities:    ? Developed an advanced search engine that facilitates various kinds of searches throughout the whole application.  ? Developed Programming concepts such as add to cart, view cart, credit card testing for merchant account.  ? Involved in PHP Session and Cookies implementation.  ? Created an events calendar so that important events can be posted and viewed.  ? Implemented RSS feed to use this on various websites.  ? Customized the Drupal6 to 7 CMS, It is used for everything from simple websites to complex corporate applications.  ? Designed and manipulated database.  ? Performed Database modeling using Microsoft Visio 2003.    Environment: PHP5, Drupal, Dreamweaver MX 2004, SVN, CSS, XML,Cake PhpHTML, DHTML, JavaScript, J Query AJAX, MYSQL, PHPMYADMIN,Google AdWords, Agile Methodology, Microsoft Visio 2003,API design Zend Framework, Apache, Linux. PHP My SQL Developer New York Library Association - New York, NY August 2009 to September 2010 The mission of the New York Library Association (NYLA) is to lead in the development, promotion and improvement of library and information services and the profession of librarianship in order to enhance learning, quality of life, and equal opportunity for all New Yorkers.  Responsibilities:    ? Created Membership Management for different Use such as Friends Groups, Library Schools, Not-for-Profit Organizations, Public Institutions and For-Profit Institutions.  ? Google Analytics Installation and Advanced Integration.  ? Google Analytics Audit  ? Involved in define database model and create component for the business requirement.  ? Involved in create module creations and used extension name RBAM  ? Create model and model relations and development component.  ? Google AdWords Campaign Optimization  ? Developed module for online registration.  ? Implemented RSS Feed to use this on various websites.  ? Created Report Generator for various Projects to meet the current stage of the Project.  ? Created Runtime Html Files using PHPWIKI. This is used for extra information if any client wants to put.  ? Created Help Desk for user's queries to meet the bulk queries submitted by the users.  ? Implemented different search modules to facilitate searches throughout the application.    Environment: PHP, HTML, JavaScript, MYSQL,SVN, Drupal, Dreamweaver MX 2004, Cake PHP,PHPMYADMIN, Visual Source Safe, MS Excel, Zend Framework, Window Server 2003, Microsoft Visio 2003, php report generator, Ajax. PHP MySQL Developer Toy Tokyo Online Inc - New York, NY September 2008 to July 2009 The Toy Tokyo website is the online representation of the Manhattan Toy Store with which it shares its name. In January 2004, we launched www.toytokyo.com so that the entire world could experience what those who frequent the NYC location can, bringing together toys and collectibles from every genre and every generation, from rare promotional toys from the 1950s to the latest limited run of Kubrick's from Mediacom, on one comprehensive website. Toy Tokyo is also working closely with many of the hottest toy artists in the designer scene.  Responsibilities:    ? Involved in developing search by categories, manufacturers.  ? Worked in developing multiple pricing levels for customers.  ? Developed Programming concepts such as add to cart, view cart, credit card testing for merchant account.  ? Implemented Third Party Payment Gateway PAYPAL for secured transaction.  ? Implemented RSS Feed to use this on various websites.  ? Created Report Generator for various Projects to meet the current stage of the Project.  ? Created Runtime Html 5 Files using PHPWIKI. This is used for extra information if any client wants to put.  ? Created Help Desk for user's queries to meet the bulk queries submitted by the users.  ? Deployed in Linux Server.  ? Managed the Linux server and configure Crone Jobs and My-SQL.    Environment: PHP, MySQL4, HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, MS Visio, Cake php MS-Excel, phpMyAdmin, Red Hat Linux 9, Apache Server, LAMP, ERWIN, Cron Jobs, Drupal. PHP, MY SQL Developer BROWNSVILLE GENERAL HOSPITAL - Brownsville, PA October 2007 to August 2008 Brownsville General Hospital is a community hospital dedicated to providing quality health care through our competent medical staff, loyal personnel, and devoted volunteers.  Brownsville General Hospital has been in the caring business for many years, serving the health needs of area residents since 1916. The goal of the hospital and medical staff is to provide you with the best of care, close to home.  Responsibilities:    ? Developed a search engine, so that users can find the relevant data as per his/her requirements.  ? Designed Database models.  ? Design the Title Pages with the help of CSS and Photoshop.  ? Indexed various associative arrays.  ? Implemented RSS Feeds to be used on various websites.  ? Provided core level coding for the different modules.  ? Used Joomla to implement appointment management system.  ? Performed Unit testing of the entire application.  ? Developed project documentation.    Environment: PHP, MYSQL, JavaScript, Photoshop, Joomla 1.03, PHPMYADMIN,CSS, Window XP, MS Word, MS Visio, MS Outlook, and MS Project. Java/PHP Developer Central Bank of India - Bengaluru, Karnataka September 2004 to July 2007 This project is made for complete solution of debit card. This is used for reconciliation the transactions. We keep track all information about the cardholder and generate reports. Functionally, we process the files, which come from the switch. This project generates various reports like unreconciled report, Branch wise summary report, Reconciliation report and many more.  Responsibilities:    ? Designed the 3-tier architecture with a design-oriented approach to the DSS system.  ? Designed the Data-driven DSS emphasizing on access to and manipulation of time-series data from an internal or external database source.  ? Created the User interface, modeled and managed the data store for the DSS application.  ? Object Oriented Analysis and Design for the system from use case and requirement documents using UML, Rational Rose. Assisted in project technical documentation.  ? Utilized MVC1 framework and developed JSP pages, Servlets and XML based action-mapping files for web tier.  ? Developed Oracle, stored procedures, functions, triggers and PL/SQL code for the application using SQL/JDBC.  ? Provided support in Server administration, environment management packaging and deployment of J2EE components on WebSphere, creating WAR files for packaging and web.xml file for deployment.  ? Unit and Integration test of the application before the release and minimizing Bugs.  ? Fixed defects in the application in integration environment and communicate with the end users to find the problem in their term and finding the code, database or environment for problem.  ? Participated in code reviews, perform unit testing and integration testing using Junit.    Environment: PHP, Servlets, JDBC, Websphere4.0, WSAD4.0, Oracle 8i, HTML/JavaScript, JUnit, UML, Rational Rose, OOA/D, Windows NT.