Multimedia Designer Multimedia Designer Graphic Artist Los Angeles, CA Highly creative and multitalented graphic artist with extensive experience in multimedia, marketing and print design. Exceptional collaborative and interpersonal skills; dynamic team player with well-developed written and verbal communication abilities. Highly skilled in client and vendor relations and negotiations; talented at building and maintaining partnerships. Passionate and inventive creator of innovative marketing strategies and campaigns; accustomed to performing in deadline-driven environments with an emphasis on working within budget requirements. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Multimedia Designer Cooler Master - Brea, CA 2016 to Present Extensive ability to create striking designs, product photography, and videos. Trusted with coordinating with United States, European, and Asia-Pacific marketing teams to develop customizable tailored materials for all regions. Migrated most video production for company’s North American team in-house which saved on outsourcing costs. Known for creating official corporate videos that included filming in China, R&D facilities across Taiwan, and development in the US. Graphic Designer Justice Brothers - Duarte, CA 2015 to 2016 Directed operations as a single person team in the graphic design and printing department. Strong ability to work independently and complete all tasks on time. Provided complex marketing materials such as posters, menu books, banners, and more. Praised for expanding the amount of services provided by the department. Lead Web Designer Imperial Industrial Supply - San Dimas, CA 2012 to 2014 Adept with leading the web design team and ensuring that all style guides were followed. Designed and coded web pages while simultaneously managing email marketing campaigns across 14 eCommerce websites. Established email marketing that earned $200K in the first quarter after launch. Implemented training program for junior designers. Front-end Web Developer Casting Networks - Los Angeles, CA 2011 to 2012 Designed numerous web pages and optimized artwork. Intensive coding experience in HTML, CSS, jQuery, and able to integrate dynamic content with ASP.NET. Was part of a four person team, that won first place in a company Hackathon competition, which developed a facial recognition search feature. Freelance Multimedia Artist Self Employed - Pasadena, CA 2007 to 2011 Strong organization and commitment ability, able to provide multimedia services such as graphic design, web design, photography, and video production. Some high-level clients included Pasadena City College, Anchor Blue, and The Boy Scouts of America. Education Bachelor's in Media Arts and Design Mt Sierra College - Monrovia, CA October 2003 to October 2007 Skills Graphic Design, Adobe, Photoshop, Typography, Indesign, Acrobat, Dreamweaver, Print Production, Printing, Illustrator, Javascript, Web Design, Branding Links http://www.gabrielperez.me/ https://www.linkedin.com/in/gabriel-perez-graphics/ Assessments Graphic Design — Highly Proficient April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to create visual media to effectively communicate information and concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/mr-pp1pg461eboy1 Written Spanish for English Speakers — Expert April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to respond to basic requests written in Spanish. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/4wxn48wrmxk8paxz Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information • Bilingual: fluent in Spanish  • Learning Japanese  • Plays a mean saxophone