Sr. Magento Lead Developer Sr. Magento Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Magento Lead Developer - ALT E - SOLUTIONS USA LLC Wilmington, DE Work Experience Sr. Magento Lead Developer ALT E - SOLUTIONS USA LLC 2012 to Present Developed solutions for Magento 1.x and Magento 2.x as required for business purposes. With Front-End Development (HTML/CSS/JavaScript) and backend (PHP/MySQL) development  ? Lead the projects and build new products, in example (denmant.com) that was a brand new site on Magento 2 from the ground up fully integrated with Salesforce CRM. Launch was successful though and brand pushed forward successfully.  ? Helped marketing maintain and manage a Magento 1.x store of tasks that included installing extensions, creating cart-level discounts and managing tiered pricing for various customer groups.  ? Contacted and maintained relationships with third party vendors like data migration services, extension production shops and managed hosting services. These vendors were key in the project being successful.  ? Developed new Magento 2 modules and refactored Magento 1 modules to work in Magento 2.x  ? Developed SDLC procedures, password storage, future feature requirements gathering and release schedules.  ? Worked with the marketing and merchandising departments for affiliate programs, cart and catalog level discounts, and upcoming holiday themes and discounts  ? Established requirements and metrics for measuring site performance and optimization. Implemented client-side fixes (image optimization, CSS/JS minification, etc) and worked with managed hosting service on further implementing Magento recommended server side optimization settings.  ? Building custom modules for external clients, extending or changing core Magento functionality, and updating or installing community created Magento modules  ? Themed multiple Magento sites based on client PSD compositions and refinements as well as creating custom front end functionality using jQuery Magento Developer Westum LLC 2010 to 2012 Built several e-commerce websites to client specification using Magento Commerce Enterprise Edition 1.8-1.9.  ? Designed, built, tested and implemented stand-alone modules for Magento, including payment and shipping modules  ? Used client-provided PSD files to implement Magento layouts, skins, and themes including customized user functionality.  ? Provided end-to-end support for e-commerce transactions from receiving orders to settlement    ? Imported client-provided data for customers, products, and other pricing rules  ? Worked closely with clients and a team of developers to address client concerns and devise best practices for implementing client desired functionality Sr. Web Developer 2006 to 2010 Used the LAMP stack of technologies to design, develop, test, implement and maintain client-branded e-commerce web applications with both a custom MVC framework and the Zend Framework as well as legacy procedural environments (PHP 4/5) on a high traffic website.  ? Used the LAMP stack of technologies to analyzed, develop, test, implement and maintain custom internal content management systems and order management systems  ? Provided second-level support to web designers regarding front-end web development issues with XHTML, CSS and Javascript code.  ? Managed SEO standards and web analytics data for all client-facing ecommerce applications using Omniture SiteCatalyst and Google Analytics in both Javascript-enabled and Javascript-disabled environments  ? Designed, developed and deployed database elements including stored procedures, database queries and AJAX functionality for internal and external applications  ? Documented application functionality and standard operating procedures for business processes  ? Tools used: Eclipse IDE, SQLYog, Subversion/TortoiseSVN, Basecamp, Bugzilla, RT Tracker, MySQL Workbench, MediaWiki Web Developer 2004 to 2006 Heavy usage of the front-end web development technologies XHTML 1.0/HTML 4.01, CSS 2, and Javascript. Tasked with using these technologies in accordance with the W3C web standards and applying Javascript in an unobtrusive manner.  ? Heavy emphasis on cross-browser and cross-platform compatibility (IE5.0+/Windows, IE 5.2+/Mac, Safari 1.0+, Netscape Navigator 6.0+, Firefox 1.0+) as well as search engine optimization (SEO) and web accessibility concepts  ? Wrote PHP scripts for cleaning up web code and monitoring web analytics for some pages  ? Condensed, optimized, externalized existing code  ? Assisted with layout bugs that arose within the dynamic code  ? Troubleshooting multiple-browsers on the website to assure compatibility Skills Software development, Lamp, Web services, Data migration, Database, Replication, Sql, Load balancing, Mvc, Sdlc, User interface, Ui, Server administration, Front end, Wireframes, User stories, User experience Additional Information SKILLS    • 9+ years experience in Full-Stack Magento Development  • High level of knowledge in Magento Commerce 1.x/2.x e-commerce application. Extensive experience in installing and configuring Magento instances (both single and multi-store) and installing vendor-created extensions. I know how to manage user roles, catalogs/products including attributes and attribute sets, and querying the database with custom SQL. Extensive skill and experience writing and refactoring Magento 1.x and 2.x extensions.  • Experience leading individual technical projects that included gathering requirements for Magento 2.x extensions, custom development and working with client stakeholders to identify project needs.  • Experience leading project to migrate from Magento 1.x e-commerce platform to Magento 2 Community/Commerce Edition. Migration included existing website UI, functionality, and legacy data migration as well as new requirements like product subscriptions and free product at checkout. Researched and purchased solutions according to project needs and with upper management approval.  HIGH LEVEL JOB SKILLS    • High level of knowledge in Magento Commerce 1.x/2.x e-commerce application. Extensive experience in installing and configuring Magento instances (both single and multi-store) and installing vendor-created extensions. I know how to manage user roles, catalogs/products including attributes and attribute sets, and querying the database with custom SQL. Extensive skill and experience writing and refactoring Magento 1.x and 2.x extensions.  • High degree of knowledge and applicable ability of the Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC). Statements of work, project task lists, user stories, application planning and design, wireframes and were heavily utilized skills  • Highly skilled LAMP developer. Extensive use of the LAMP technology stack and adjoining concepts including, but not limited to, MVC frameworks, database creation and management with the ability to write custom/raw SQL, the use of web services, dependency managers, and server administration.  • Strong proficiency in front end technologies. Can take wireframes/PSD files to pixel perfect replication including responsive and mobile-first designs. Strong background in cross-browser compatibility, browser security, accessibility and web standards. Highly aware of user interface and user experience issues.  • Solid knowledge of Amazon's Web Services (AWS) offerings. Utilized and managed cloud based hosting features including load balancing, auto-scaling and database redundancy. Worked closely with a managed hosting team with nine years of project management experience I know how to meet deadlines, prioritize and juggle many projects in a fast-paced work environment  • Superb written and oral communication skills    Communication skills Good communication skills and team spirit gained through my long term experience on many projects.