Senior Software Engineer & Service Manager Senior Software Engineer &amp; Service Manager Senior Software Engineer & Service Manager Midvale, UT Agency leader, trainer, team leader & Solutions driven programmer with a track record of commended performance in Design, Front-end UI, modular and object oriented programming. Well versed in all phases of online web and software development process with strong knowledge of server management, source control,  and Restful API web services structures. I develop customized proven engineering solutions for improving business processes, operations, and profitability. Experienced in Agile development. SAFe certified as well as  Scrum.    I have a detailed understanding of how interactive experiences should look, feel and function on a variety of  devices and have an insatiable appetite for developing new skills and constantly improving existing ones. I would love to join a company where these skills would be beneficial. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Software Engineer & Service Manager Dish Network May 2017 to Present Sling TV / Xavient Digital  Created configuration, admin, sales and client dashboards to manage and promote new product. Worked through GIT and developed with SAFe Scaled Agile, practices and before that used SCRUM. Developed all  front end client side sites for integration into new advertising platform. Senior Web Developer The Grace Company June 2013 to January 2017 As the only developer I built Custom websites for the manufacturer's commerce products and product  showcase websites. Built a complete company management suite from scratch to manage all the websites, products, warehouse, support, returns, product tracking, sales and analytics, software creation and licensing  management all easily done from one place. The new platform was developed with PHP / Laravel with complete responsive and mobile design. Also setup and managed GIT for each site. Senior Web Developer & Service Manager The Advocates Driggs Bills & Day August 2011 to August 2011 WordPress focused work on high traffic and high profile client sites including module creation, infrastructure  design, local and social site creation and social network management with workflows and full analytics for events, clicks, calls tracking. Contribution of custom built WordPress plugins to accomplish what the site  needed using WordPress. Managed 2 outsourced/contract development teams and checked work for errors, problems, quality and common coding practices before pushing to agile developments. Managed scrum  masters and product manager. Senior Web Developer TheColorRun May 2010 to August 2011 Created the online presence for The Color Run in 46 countries as well as created the cloud servers to handle  the volume of visitors it needed without crashing. Learned how to create a global site network with all the rules and regulations needed to do so. Was service manager over other agile development teams in 7  countries. PHP & Mobile Web Developer XANY April 2009 to May 2010 Build a mobile short code opt in marketing platform. Create setup and develop in REST, SOAP, Web Services and API's Web Designer / Front-end Developer Vault Denim August 2007 to March 2009 Lead web designer creating designs and implementing them into product showcase sites with easy to follow  front end UI to help streamline purchases in the company's retail markets. Created with the newest SEO  specs and fully responsive. Web Developer / Internet Software Engineer SEO.com January 2005 to August 2007 Design and development of complex web application interfaces built using multiple technologies and scaled for multiple platforms, including both web based and responsive using SEO standards to support high ranking  and presence in search. Also worked for child company WebConcepts.com. Education Associate in Information Technology University of Utah - Salt Lake City, UT 1997 to 2000 Programming and Web Development Advanced Technical Center 1997 to 2000 Associates in EET Electrical Engineering ITT Technical Institute 1993 to 1997 Skills ENGINEER, LMS, OPTIMIZATION, SITE DESIGN, LINUX, API, FRONT-END, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, OBJECT ORIENTED, OBJECT ORIENTED PROGRAMMING, OOP, PHP, LARAVEL, SCRIPTING, SOFTWARE ENGINEER, Subversion, UI DESIGN Certifications/Licenses SAFe May 2018 to Present Additional Information Skills    PHP / Laravel  This has become my favorite to work in and learn so if you are like me  and are into Laravel you should understand.    PHP / MVC / OOP / Cmd Line  While using vagrant and virtual-box or any other setup on windows or  simply working in other environments. I have learned a bunch  command line frameworks along the way as well.    Agile Development  SAFe, Scrum, Senior Service Engineer    Experienced in Scrum Master, Product Manager, Service Manager    GIT, Subversion and more    Front-end & Backend UI /  Design and maintain the user interfaces at the same time making sure  UX  the visitor gets from A to B with as few clicks as possible.    Development Operations  5+ years managing IT projects and personnel.    10+ years managing and training personnel on small team basis.    Responsive Development  Such as Bootstrap or even custom developed. There are lot's of types I  have used.    Cloud Server Mgmt & Setup  Setup and managed many cloud bases servers using Rackspace and  AWS as well as implementing load balancers and SSL    Google AdWords & AdSense  Managed and setup many developments. While implementing  conversion & re-marketing tracking & more.    Source Control  Using Git, I have Setup and managed source control along with its  deployment.    Web Development / Design  I have created many designs that have become full working sites over  the years and all of them build responsive and to the newest SEO  standards.    WordPress / Child Theme  Theme and plugin development as well as design in MVC and  Composer.    JavaScript / JQuery  Almost everything I work in deals with these in one way or another.  Analytics / GTM  Many years setting up analytics and reporting using googles services,  social media networks and google tag manager    Specialties: Significant Experience with HTML-5, PSD to html, CSS, PHP, WordPress, Joomla, Magento,  Microdata & Schema. Built Custom CMS/Management Suite's on MVC PHP and Laravel 5 Frameworks    UX / UI Design & Development Google Tag Mgmt  Adobe Photoshop Illustrator HTML CSS & 3  Dreamweaver InDesign JavaScript, JQuery & Ajax  After Effects & Video Production Responsive Web Design  Package Component Libraries PHP MVC Object Oriented Programming  From Scratch Custom CMS WordPress Mgmt  Custom Management Builds Laravel Framework & Packages  Custom Comp Mgmt. Builds Laravel Homestead Setup & Mgmt  Microdata & Schema Project Mgmt / Development Mgmt  Google Apps Mgmt Content Mgmt Systems  Animated GIF's Site Design & Development  UI Component Libraries Google AdWords Mgmt.  Search Engine Optimization SEO Version Control (setup and management)  Google Analytics Scripting & Databases  RESTful API & Web Services Android/iOS App Development  Composer, Vagrant & Virtualbox LMS Systems & Course Development  Relational Databases Rackspace Cloud Servers  Online Course Development AWS & Rackspace Cloud Servers    note    Above are my skills in my opinion, 10 being what I am most proficient at, 1 being the least.  Additional Info    Completed many courses over the years which included User Interface Designs utilizing HTML, CSS and  JQuery, Bootstrap, Node, Responsiveness.  Implemented and setup AdWords & Management, AdSense & Management and Google Tag Manager.  Developed cloud in both Rackspace and AWS and managed them. Setup Git and managed the source  control of all parts of the project and development.  Spent the last 3 years developing in Laravel and it has now become my favorite framework in PHP.    Websites & Applications    Here are links to the various websites and applications I've had the honor of working on or creating.    www.fungamesandtoys.com www.thecolorrun.com www.handquiltingframe.com    www.affordableprogrammer.co www.qniquequilter.com www.orderpearlessence.com    www.utahadvocates.com www.young90health.com www.graceframe.com    Additional Sites for 2017    liceclinicsofamerica.com liceclinicsofcanada.com liceclinicsofmurray.com  liceclinicsutah.com young90forlife.com buyygywholesale.com  truthaboutnutrition.com naturesfix.com claytonsimms.com  saltlakecriminaldefense.com utahbailbondsinformation.com utahsexcrimesattorney.com  saltlakejuveniledefense.com y90store.com graceframe.com  washingtonadvocates.com utahadvocates.com adamsdavis.com    Many more just ask.  Past Job Titles    Senior Software Engineer Service Manager  Senior Dev-Ops Manager Service Engineer  Senior Web Developer Scrum Master  Cloud Server Developer Product Manager  Online Software Engineer Web Developer  Lead Designer Web Platform Coordinator  Lead SEO Manager Linux Server Developer