Manager, Experience Design and Lead Web Developer Manager, Experience Design and Lead <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Web Developer, Designer, Leader of People & Strategy San Diego, CA Expert web developer and designer; strong in problem solving, strategic thinking and leadership. 15+ years of designing technical systems to meet business needs, specifically through web applications and data services. I work great with devs and designers alike, and push my peers to focus on solving problems with thoughtful design.    Lean leader focused on agile design and development processes and rapid prototyping for product validation. I believe in setting expectations and personal accountability; no micro-managing, the best solutions come from those empowered to own them.    Passionate about workplace innovation and cultivating a strong company culture. Looking for a challenging, purpose-driven workplace that empowers me to use my capabilities to drive organizational success. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Manager, Experience Design and Lead Web Developer Jack in the Box - San Diego, CA March 2009 to Present • Architected and led the development of custom in-house enterprise training web-application.   • Launched training web-app 1.0 in 6 months with angularjs and Contentful CMS, 2.0 in 3 months with Vuejs; implemented ~5-10 features and enhancements per month through continuous development sprints.  • Led design and development team of 5 to create effective training and operational solutions through technology and informational design.   • Managed and cut-down 6-figure budget by 25% while exceeding team goals.  • Strategic lead in defining department and company training strategy. Organized and led multiple corporate conferences on creativity, ideation and innovation. Education Bachelor's in Web Design and Interactive Media The Art Institute of California - San Deigo - San Diego, CA September 2005 to June 2008 Associate in Software Engineering Oregon Institute of Technology - Klamath Falls, OR September 2003 to June 2005 Skills Angular, Front End, Javascript, HTML5, Vue, Web Development, Web Design, UX Design, Jquery, HTML, UI, React, CSS3, Node, Front-End Links https://andrewwalpole.com Assessments Critical Thinking — Expert July 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/c8ux-jvyzjock4bv Problem Solving — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/wk-wen31-ixqyl8x Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.