Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Windermere, FL ? Experience building and maintaining custom, professional websites.  ? Experience with PHP, HTML, CSS, Javascript, WordPress and Drupal CMSs,Git version control,  Virtual environments and Operating Systems (MacOSX/Linux/Windows).  ? Customer service experience at University computer help desk; Software company client programming  and support; Telecommunications installation, maintenance and customer support,.  ? MacOS, Windows and Linux experience, including command line.  ? Excel and Photoshop equivalent experience. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer NCompass - Orlando, FL 2018 to Present Backend developer, providing additional functionality to WordPress with Custom Post Types and Fields, filtered queries and custom searches, post relationships, etc. Assist with site hosting, site performance, DNS, SSL, etc. Efficient development and maintenance via command line (locally and via SSH).  Some sites include: pdmplaw.com, davidmayers.com, jillawebb.com and more. Website Designer/ Developer freelance - Windermere, FL 2011 to Present Built from scratch and maintain websites as a solo designer/ developer.  • Most recently: Websites for Professional Musicians, including events and eCommerce.  • Numerous WordPress and Drupal Web developer conferences, camps and meetups (DrupalCon – Denver2012, Portland 2013; DrupalCamp – Florida 2012-2015; Chicago 2012), which included training sessions and seminars on website building, development, hosting, maintenance, security, version control, deployment and best practices. Musician Walt Disney Parks and Resorts - Lake Buena Vista, FL 1998 to 2010 Fulltime percussionist and sub-leader of the performing group 'The Village Beatniks' at Disney's Animal Kingdom, as well as being a Freelance Musician. Musician Walt Disney Parks and Resorts - Lake Buena Vista, FL 1990 to 1992 Full-time percussionist with 'Future World Brass' at Disney's EPCOT Resort. Telecommunications Technician Fortran Corporation - Lorton, VA 1988 to 1989 Business and Residential Telecommunications installation and maintenance. Programmer/Computer Help Desk CSC Business Systems/Auburn University - Pleasant Hill, CA 1982 Custom business software development and support.  University administrative mainframe computing.  • Provided help and consulting of all University computing systems and software for students, faculty & staff.  Education Bachelor's in Computer Engineering Auburn University - Auburn, AL 1981 to 1987 2 individual classes in Unix and C programming Valencia College - Orlando, FL 1996 Skills Wordpress (4 years), PHP (2 years), Javascript (1 year), HTML5 (10+ years), PHP (1 year), Drupal (4 years), CSS (8 years) Assessments Critical Thinking — Expert August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xezfdhwdu1hg9mch Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.