Graphic Designer Graphic Designer Graphic Designer - Creative Circle New York, NY Work Experience Graphic Designer Creative Circle - New York, NY March 2019 to Present • Edit and optimize images for web and social platforms, and design file templates for print materials.  • Reduced printing costs up to 60% by designing templates and creating ten styles for stationary collection.   • Created and optimized seasonal and product campaign assets including web banners,advertisements, emails, and GIF animations. Production Designer Amplify Education, Inc. - Brooklyn, NY November 2017 to February 2019 • Designed, modified, and resized digital and print educational materials in English and Spanish, including slides, classroom materials, and workbooks.  • Developed specific design standards for a multi-language resource that included five alphabet systems.  • Inspected Spanish and English asset modifications for multiple middle school units. Graphic Designer Self - New York, NY August 2015 to November 2017 • Created print and digital collateral for clients, including multiple typography templates for a college event.  • Ensured photos were properly retouched, and documents were prepared for print. Designed line sheets used by luxury brand to present seasonal launches to vendors.  • Reduced printing costs for a nonprofit institution by 40% through design specifications for their yearbook that included typography, color choice, page count and dimensions. Web Designer/ Developer General Assembly - New York, NY March 2015 to June 2015 Completed 12-week intensive course that focused on full stack web development and user experience. Gained familiarity with personas, wireframes, site maps, style guides, and responsive design. Education Web Development General Assembly - New York, NY March 2015 to June 2015 B.A. in Art/Graphic Design City College of New York - New York, NY August 2009 to May 2014 Skills Typography, Photoshop, Graphic Design, Layout, Print Production, Digital Production, Photo Retouching, Adobe Creative Suite, Adobe