Director of Web Development & Lead Developer Director of <span class="hl">Web</span> Development &amp; Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer, UI/UX Designer, Marketer Saint Augustine, FL Currently a full stack developer, UI/UX designer, Wordpress theme developer, marketer, writer, and team leader. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Director of Web Development & Lead Developer Multiverse Media Group - Jacksonville, FL February 2017 to Present My position at MVMG was originally custom Wordpress theme developer and ongoing support for franchise clients. Over time I have taken over the Web Development department and now oversee all web projects that come into the door. I ensure the custom development standards are upheld and are completed in a timely manner. I also partake in the company's marketing strategies and sales. Web Developer and Designer NeuroInitiative - Jacksonville, FL August 2015 to Present NeuroInitiative is a company out of Jacksonville, FL that uses biotech to cure disease. The main focus of the company is to develop software that can help bench biologists find a cure for Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease.     My job as the web developer and designer is to design, build, and maintain the website as well as all back-end programming that controls software purchase flow, account creation, and member portals. Part Owner, Manager, Book Keeper, Metal Fabricator & Designer California 500, LLC (CAL500) - Saint Augustine, FL 2009 to December 2014 A surface drive company founded my father in 1983 which I have recently joined with intentions of making the company grow significantly. I have dedicated many hours per day to make  sure we have a smooth running and profitable business. The skills I have learned and have  been taught are second to none; from traveling abroad for meetings, to legal mediations,  designing and building my own surface drive design which has been seen at shows and in magazines, I am proud to say that I know what it takes to receive the outcome that is well  deserved. I am currently involved, (on behalf of CAL500) in the Cowes to Monte-Carlo race of 2013 and in process of building a powerboat, arranging my offshore racing team and  becoming a certified driver by APBA and UIM. Currently my position is managing the online presence of CAL500, scheduling, ordering, and essentially letting the business run itself. Manager Snap Fitness of Inman Park - Atlanta, GA August 2007 to September 2009 My first experience in the fitness industry. I was hired as one of two total employees who  would run this Snap Fitness location. I worked early morning until early afternoon and did  everything from opening, payments, computer work, cleaning and maintenance, etc. Snap  Fitness was on its way to become one of the most profitable locations in the entire franchise.  California 500, LLC Education Bachelor's in Computer Programming and Analysis Saint Johns River State College - Saint Augustine, FL August 2018 to Present AS in Computer Programming and Analysis Saint John's River State College - Saint Augustine, FL 2015 to May 2017 Drafting and Design Moultrie Technical College - Tifton, GA 2005 General Studies Darton College - Albany, GA 2005 Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), HTML 5 (2 years), CSS3 (2 years), PHP (1 year), Javascript (2 years), JQuery (1 year), Bootstrap Framework (2 years), Adobe Photoshop (5 years), Wordpress (2 years), Front End, Angular, Bootstrap, HTML5 Links http://www.marcreymon.com Groups Saint Johns River State College ACM Chapter March 2016 to Present Currently the Treasurer, Secretary, and Web Developer for the club.