President President President - Nochek Solutions Topeka, KS Innovative Web Designer with extensive experience in lacing together multiple languages for  optimum effect. Has the ability to think and work outside any container with a base, sides, and  lid. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience President Nochek Solutions - Manhattan, KS October 2010 to Present Set-up and maintained company web server and web site using Apache. Managed multiple SQL Production databases. Efficiently managed and coordinated at least six design/production projects at a time, from job initiation through job completion. Managed creative projects from concept to completion, managing outside resources including vendors, photographers, printers, and graphic installers. Responsible for the management, maintenance, and security of the entire company's data network. Responsible for implementing key server side components using technologies like PHP, javascript and MySQL. Engaged tens of thousands of clients and users. Sold thousands of copies of the Hydrurga Software Operating Program, Mobile games, original concept SEO technology, and Content Management Systems. Web Designer Specialist Capstan Ag Systems - Topeka, KS February 2015 to September 2017 Developed web based GUIs to work on any device for use in chemical spraying operations.  Researched, planned, and developed integration methods with ISOBUS, open source, and proprietary embedded systems for use with historic, modern, and future methods of agricultural spraying technologies.   Developed and maintained the front, back, and side APIs of company website, including dozens of apps to communicate with product lines and save user approved data, increase productivity, track product development, manufacturing, sales, delivery, installation, and maintenance/support, created mapping systems to identify potential new markets based on unique sales data provided on the web from various related industries, and provided HR-friendly time tracking and expenses system for each department with monthly emails to department heads in their preferred spreadsheet or graphed format.  Developed and maintained a WebRTC based encrypted system for secure encrypted internal and external voice, video, text, and data transfer to bring conferencing and support systems in house.   Created custom and personalized CMS to allow drafted edits while providing front to back security with dynamic patching of future possible vulnerabilities the moment they are published.  Simultaneously developed web based user interfaces for embedded systems displays on up to four products at any point in time, going to market in less than 7 months from first concept to first sales.  Applied for 6 patents based upon GUI designs from the first product web display I created. Software Developer Network Computer Solutions - Saint George, KS March 2012 to January 2015 Designed and developed the nTerfuse CMS used by Kansas’ Area Agencies on Aging and software to integrate with the KDADS legacy KAMIS software.  Created a web based conversion for Kansas’ CMASS system that converted legacy data, as well as control, display, and update County Court Records in 5 counties.   Developed Client, Learning, Content, Rental, Billing, Reports, and HIPAA Compliance Management Systems for multiple types of businesses, including nursing homes, school districts, law firms, car dealerships and more.   Built and Managed thousands of Office 365 accounts while integrating and improving existing business infrastructure for clients.  Integrated with hundreds of API’s to solve complex business equations and questions, improving productivity, workflow, management, payroll, and other aspects of various businesses.   Received multiple awards and government contracts for rebuilding the AAA’s and KDADS’ ancient inhouse systems into a full featured, offline capable, easily accessible web application. General Manager Daylight Donuts - Manhattan, KS March 2006 to October 2011 Responsibilities  Developed products; designed new advertising methods; interviewed, hired, and scheduled all employees; Cold called to setup new orders; Developed and built client relationships; Worked sales counter during day and bar shift.    Accomplishments  Built connections with over 100 local businesses for regular delivery and carry out orders; Personal sales 300% over daily averages; Successfully built, operated, and ran store while increasing annual sales by over 200-400% a year, 5 years in a row.    Skills Used  Time Management, Decision Making, Persuasion, Coordination, Negotiation, Instructing New Employees in Jobs, Social Perceptiveness and Marketing Education AAS in Business Administration Highland CC - Wamego, KS 2012 to 2014 HS Degree in General Manhattan High - Manhattan, KS 2000 to 2004 Skills PHP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, (My)SQL+NoSQL, Node.js, C# (.NET), WebRTC, JSON, Redis, AJAX, FTP, GIT, XML, SSH, DNS, SEO (10+ years), PHP, Javascript, MySQL, ASP, Android, CSS, Git, HTML 5, jQuery Links http://www.danesimonsen.com http://www.kansasadmin.com http://capstanag.com http://nterfuse.com http://onncs.com https://youtu.be/j85PKJhRhXI Patents Systems for Handling Fluid for Application to Agricultural Fields (#US 2017/0139429 A1) 2017-05 Developed Control and Display system to communicate with sprayer system Systems and methods for handling fluid for application to agricultural fields (#US20170245425A1) https://patents.google.com/patent/US20170245425A1/en Crafted wired/wireless mobile device display transmitting data and controls to and from real time agricultural embedded system to a web based UI Systems and methods for handling fluid for application to agricultural fields (#US20170245425A1) https://patents.google.com/patent/US20170245425A1/en Created UI with controls and graphical representation of real time data output for embedded hardware integrated within agricultural sprayer system. Additional Information Willing and Eager to learn new techniques and languages to fit goals and guidelines   Relational and various Non-Relational Database Design, Protection, Maintenance, and Server Maintenance  Excellent Problem Solving Abilities  Software Framework Development, Testing, & Integration  Mobile Application Development  Knowledge of Web Technologies, Protocols, APIs and Tools  Turn Simple Concepts Into Fully Immersive and User Friendly Consumer Experiences   Network Penetration Testing  Communication and Training Proficiency   Solid understanding of frameworks and best practices   Web content management  Search Engine Optimization  Comfortable with change