Contract and freelance Web Developer / Consultant Contract and freelance <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> / Consultant Contract and freelance Web Developer / Consultant - BFS Capital, Inc Fort Lauderdale, FL Work Experience Contract and freelance Web Developer / Consultant BFS Capital, Inc August 2018 to Present Projects include:    South Florida Auto Recycling: www.sflautoparts.com  Create application to expose parts inventory from their legacy management system through browse or search to a new website using Java/Spring Boot with Postgresql for backend REST services and HTML/CSS/JQuery on the client side.    BFS Capital, Inc: www.bfscapital.com  Modernize legacy Coldfusion code for business loan lifecycle management application, as well as a suite of poorly performing reporting queries. Increased performance of application and reporting in some cases by over 4000% by optimizing code and queries along with creating proper indexes. Sabbatical September 2017 to August 2018 After 10 years at ADP/CDK Global, took some time off to travel and work on back burner projects. Web Developer, CDK Global ADP Dealer Services - Fort Lauderdale, FL July 2007 to September 2017 Developed and supported a wide range of web applications dealing with most aspects of the automotive retail industry for enterprise clients such as AutoNation and Lithia. Newer projects developed using Java/Spring/MySQL/Postgresql REST server back-end with AngularJs front end clients under Continuous Integration and Agile methodologies with corresponding technology stacks. Strong emphasis on TDD and full code coverage with unit and integrations tests. Older and legacy apps use ColdFusion through CF11, PHP, ASP.net and SQL Server through 2011. Heavy use of custom tags, CFCs, web services, gateways, AJAX, XML and stored procedures on the data side as well as many third party provider integrations. Lead Developer Site Manageware - Fort Lauderdale, FL April 2005 to April 2007 Ft Lauderdale, Fl. www.sitemanageware.com  Lead developer on premier real estate web application used by top developers with $26+ billion in projects including Trump Hollywood and Icon Brickell. Application developed with ColdFusion MX7 / MSSQL Server using a mixture of standard templates, CFCs, UDFs and FuseBox along with advanced SQL queries, stored procedures, UDF's, views, triggers and DTS jobs. Supervise and mentor junior programmers. Interfaced with clients and all departments, prepared requirements and project plans, generated, distributed and executed programming tasks. Contract and freelance Web Developer / Administrator / Consultant i-creatives / First Marketing Inc 1999 to March 2005 Projects include:    • i-creatives / First Marketing Inc.: www.first-marketing.com , www.healthysolutions.tv , www.vwire.com , www.patientinteraction.com  Migrated 3 websites and data from Texis Vortex / Texis RDBMS to ASP.Net / MSSQL server. Developed ASP.Net/SQL Bulk Copy interface to import and process 5.5 mil record mailing lists quickly and efficiently. Completed three projects in the time allotted for one and consulted on network issues (profiles, permissions DNS, etc).  • International Printing, Inc: www.pbsoprintshop.com  Developed b2b site for purchasing PBSO printed forms and documents in Cold Fusion / MSSQL. App includes DHTML business card and memo pad personalization interfaces with product search, shopping cart, cc processing and admin interfaces. Provide ongoing support and maintenance.  • Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office: www.pbso.org  Provisional webmaster while replacement was hired. Developed Web/Intranet content and apps in Cold Fusion (FuseBox)/SQL Server 2000. Interfaced with all organizational levels identifying needs, preparing requirements, planning projects and performing or coordinating tasks.  • Southeast Florida Library Information Network: www.seflin.org  www.mylibraryservice.org , www.miserviciodebiblioteca.org  Developed member library admin apps using Cold Fusion (w/FuseBox), MS SQL Server 2000. Included directory listing, event calendar, DHTML icon locations map, job posting and admin interfaces with multi-tiered security.  • Biomed Plus, Inc: www..biomedplus.com  Developed Intranet apps using ASP/VBScript, VBA and MS SQL Server 2000 including: trouble ticket app, product maintenance and special request for purchasing and sales departments, UPS package tracking search and interfaces, along with other interactive tools. These included email, forum style messaging systems and admin modules along with interface to Exchange server. Added SQL database storage to custom Outlook forms data. Added content management functionality to corporate website. Helped with data migration from various sources to new SAP system. Ongoing consulting and piece work.  • The Paul Hertz Group: www.printsurvey.com  Developed complex online personality assessment in Cold Fusion and MSSQL Server used by clients such as Carnival Cruise Lines, Central Intelligence Agency and others for personnel development and pre-hire evaluation. Includes display and processing of up to 73 combinations of 9 to 36 question sets based on multilevel scoring logic handling over 700 billion answer combinations with multiple display, formatting and generated Word results distribution options along with admin, login generation, notification and reporting, invoicing, and payment interfaces. Also developed a VB version for use by passengers aboard Carnival Cruise Lines ships.  • Miami-Dade Police Department: www.mdpd.com  Developed various apps with ColdFusion, ASP, VBScript, PERL, and MySQL for content management, user interaction, search and internal police processes. Integrated functions from email server, Lyris list server, MS Indexing Service, FTP and others. Installed and configured Win2K Web/Database servers. Published 3000+ page operations manual to Intranet. Consulted on various other networking and Internet issues.  • Infolink Communications: www.infolink.com  Developed backend ASP components for Flash forms.  • T-Vision, Inc: www.thelottopeople.com (No longer online, source code available)  Developed online lottery ticket subscription service using ColdFusion and MS SQL Server 7. App included purchasing interfaces for 4 state lotteries with quick pick and stored user pre-selected numbers, standard shopping cc processing along with a one button "quick pay" system, winning number and jackpot email updates to users using data automatically retrieved and parsed from state lottery sites and admin interfaces for with multilevel security, automatic ticket printing and numerous reports/notifications. Installed, configured and administered office network of Win2K and Red Hat 7 servers and Win/Mac clients.  • Blue Orbit E-Business.: www.metrodream.com (No longer online, source code available)  Lead developer for a multilingual (English/German) E-zine website for the Metropolitan Modeling Agency in NY City and Berlin, Germany. Apps developed and/or integrated using ColdFusion, PERL, Java, XML, Oracle 8i and MySQL. Included user data integrated with chat, web based email, message boards, quizzes, surveys, contests, e-commerce, admin interfaces and content management. Installed, configured and maintained office network of Win2k, Linux and Solaris servers, Win and Mac clients and Verio hosted Sun servers. Also consulted for the German MTV website mtv.de, internetcoolguide.com and assisted remotely on other Blue Orbit projects in Europe and Asia as needed.  • Virginia State Lottery: www.valottery.com  Consulted on re-design, programming, hosting and hardware requirements.  • Special Service Agency: www.specialserviceagency.com  Designed original site, developed apps using PERL/MySQL for agent login, quotes and forms.  • The Investment School: www.investmentschool.com  Designed original site and developed online courses and quizzes in PHP/MySQL.  • Krumbein and Associates: www.krumbein.com  Developed automated fax on demand system using PERL and Interbase for bankruptcy law practice. President Techcom.net Inc - Petersburg, VA 1997 to 1999 Petersburg, Va.: www.techcom.net (No longer online)  Ran a small but highly regarded computer, networking and Internet services firm in the Petersburg and Tri-Cities area of Virginia. Increased revenues from -$36,000 /yr to over $900,000/yr in less than 3 years. Upgraded and expanded ISP network and business systems to enable a tenfold growth in utilization with state of the art services and security. Created a strong client base in local government and top area businesses and was personally responsible for over 55% of all sales for over 2.5 yrs. Provided a variety of services including Dialup, ISDN and Frame Relay T1 Internet access, virtual and dedicated web hosting, system/LAN/WAN design, installation, maintenance, troubleshooting, repair and administration on Windows, Novell, Lantastic and Unix networks. Developed websites for clients including: Bank of Southside Virginia. www.bsvnet.com  South Side Regional Medical Center. www.srmconline.com IT Sales Manager Richmond, VA 1994 to 1997 Sold computer and networking hardware, installation, service contracts, administration, training, and other services to area businesses and government agencies. Specializing in Novell and later Windows NT and UNIX networks. Promoted to Sales Manager in first six months of service. Hired, trained, managed and motivated sales personnel. Skills Ajax, Asp, Cgi, Coldfusion, Css, Dhtml, Fusebox, Web server, Web services, Data transformation, Database, Interbase, Ms access, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Postgresql, Sql, Sql queries, Stored procedures, Java (5 years)