Web Technology Specialist and Digital Marketing Coordinator <span class="hl">Web</span> Technology Specialist and Digital Marketing Coordinator Web Technology Specialist and Digital Marketing Coordinator - Newman University Derby, KS Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Technology Specialist and Digital Marketing Coordinator Newman University - Wichita, KS July 2013 to Present Managed the design, development, implementation, and maintenance of several websites within a LAMP  stack environment while utilizing several CMS self-hosted open-source platforms including Joomla, Drupal,  and Wordpress  ? Highly involved in leadership positions with the university: Title IX investigator, Mission Effectiveness Board,  Strategic Planning Committee, Staff Assembly (President)  ? Managed SEO campaigns using the Brightedge platform  ? Created and managed inbound drip marketing campaigns using the Eloqua CRM  ? Presented digital marketing metrics to cabinet members using SPSS, Google Analytics, Google Data Studio,  and Tableau  ? Collaborated with and lead team members in a full-service marketing firm environment ( web, print,  photo/video, editorial, SEO, SEM) while coordinating with 3rd party vendors  ? Organized and managed social media campaigns using Oracle SRM  ? Coordinated with the Advancement office to organize online fundraising campaigns  ? Managed photography and video projects Freelance Digital Marketing and Media Specialist Daniel Scott Design - Wichita, KS April 2009 to Present Offered freelance services in areas of digital marketing, web design, photography, and video production Web Developer The Coleman Company Inc - Wichita, KS September 2012 to July 2013 Managed the design, development, and implementation of PCI-compliant e-Commerce websites under the Coleman family brand: Coleman.com, MadDogGear.com, StearnsFlotation.com, Aerobed.com, Sevylor.com  ? Developed and maintained intranet sites and applications  ? Developed algorithms to detect fraudulent e-Commerce activity  ? Performed SEO best practices while using Google Analytics and Webmaster Tools Web Developer / Designer Wolters Kluwer / CCH - Wichita, KS April 2011 to September 2012 Designed and developed custom websites for accounting agencies using CCH SiteBuilder CMS  ? Managed the migration of over 4,500 website accounts to an upgraded server /platform  ? Participated in all stages of Agile Development  ? Communicated with end users on a daily basis  ? Assisted with SEO projects Web Developer / Designer WSU Coop - Wichita, KS December 2010 to April 2011 Assisted with back-end development of enterprise management software  ? Designed and developed custom websites for local businesses  ? Focused on object oriented programming (OOP) using an MVC framework Market Analyst - Pricing Bank of America - Plano, TX June 2005 to May 2009 Communicated to all levels of management  ? Applied knowledge of risk-based pricing to make informed decisions  ? Interpreted internal and external information systems to make informed decisions  ? Trained management and staff in regard to pricing policy  ? Built reports in Excel to present to management and business partners Munitions Systems Specialist - Staff Sergeant Kansas Air National Guard - Wichita, KS June 2000 to April 2008 Assembled, inspected, and transported 1.1D explosive devices  ? Served in Operation Iraqi Freedom (2003) and Operation Iraqi Freedom (2007) Education MBA in Business Analytics Newman University - Wichita, KS July 2018 Bachelor of Business Administration in MIS in MIS Wichita State University December 2010 Bachelor of Business Administration in Marketing in Marketing Fort Hays State University May 2004 Skills Digital Marketing, Marketing, Google Analytics, SEO, HTML Certifications/Licenses BrightEdge Present Kansas Leadership Center - My Leadership Edge Present