Web Developer for Client AmeriHealthCaritus <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> for Client AmeriHealthCaritus Web Developer for Client AmeriHealthCaritus Beverly, NJ • Highly skilled Full Stack Developer, Analysis, Programming Support and Leadership  • Team player on projects from design through implementation  • PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY  • Diversified background in Information Technology with over 20 years' experience.  • In depth industry experience with exposure to all phases of software development cycle including Requirement analysis, Programming, Design, Development, Testing and Production Support  • Primary team member in various phases of Project life cycle (Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Production Support  • Excellent command in all facets of SQL databases and Client Servers.  • Established .NET, SQL, and Database proficiency  • Extensive experience in trouble shooting and problem solving skills.  • Accomplished excellent outputs as a resourceful Senior Developer, Programmer, Analyst and Lead.  • Extensively experienced in technical solutions for diverse organizations such as UPS, Tokio Marine, Cigna, Blue Cross Blue Shield, Core States Bank, Merrill Lynch, Doubleday Select, Ford Motor Company, Hunt Wholesale Manufacturing, AmeriHealth Caritas. Broad background in client/server, Web and mainframe technologies, with solid expertise in systems analysis, design, coding, testing, documentation, training and support. Work Experience Web Developer for Client AmeriHealthCaritus MindLance - Philadelphia, PA June 2018 to June 2019 Full Stack Developer  • Developer II modifying existing in house and client facing applications  • Created Web API's using C# and Web Forms to support transition of Intranet site to new server  • Utilizing Web API techniques instead of embedded code.  • Developed SQL stored procedures in support of Web API's  • Providing ongoing support and updates as needed prior to transition.  • Analysis of necessities for upgrade to Sql Server 2016    Development Tools: Sql Server 2008 R2, VB.net, asp.Net 4.5.1, C#, MSSQL, Web API's, AngularJS, Javascript, JQuery, HTML5,CSS,Javascript Web Developer for Client Falcon Technologies Star Point Solutions - Philadelphia, PA October 2017 to December 2017 Full Stack Developer  • Developed applications in support of Independent and Corporate Insurance agent for on-site Insurance Enrollment  • I provided tool to secure application by way of agent credentials  • Modified applications for client custom needs relative to state of employment and residence.  • Providing ongoing support and updates as needed    Development Tools: Sql Server 2005, Sql Server 2012, MSSQL, VB.net, HTML5, CSS Web Developer Winning Traditions Inc - Burlington, NJ March 2017 to August 2017 • Developed e-commerce web site  • Set up Social Media for Youtube  • Setup Social Media for Facebook  • Providing ongoing support and updates as needed    Development Tools: wordpress, woocommerce, wordpress plugins MS Server 2012 Network Administrator Howes Accounting - Philadelphia, PA January 2017 to March 2017 • Migrated Sage50 Accounting to MS Server 2012 and installed system backup with daily reporting.  • Setup new workstations and printers on individual network workstations to be accessed by any user node on the network.  • Installed SharePoint document sharing via One Drive.  • InfoPath Form Solutions  • Created a concise and easy to use workstation environment    Development Tools: SBS 2011, MS Server 2012, Windows 7 Pro SharePoint Full Stack Developer Cedar Crest College - Allentown, PA January 2016 to December 2016 • Made updates to SQL Server 2008 Stored Procedures and Financial  • Services for student loan applications using C#  • In support of clients applications providing service via remote access  • As CISCO client to on site workstation    Development Tools: Javascript, JQuery, C#, ASP.NET 4.5, Jenzabar, MVS, Web Services, SOAP, vs2012, Linq, MSSQL, SQL Server 2008 R2 MS Server 2012 Network Administrator Howes Accounting - Philadelphia, PA June 2015 to December 2015 • Installation Migration to MS Server 2012.  • I migrated Sage50 Accounting to MS Server 2012  • and installed system backup with daily reporting.  • Setup new workstations and printers on individual network work stations to be accessed by any user node on the network.  • Install Share Point document sharing via One Drive    Development Tools: SBS 2011, MS Server 2012, Windows 7 Pro Share Point, VB.net, Visual Studio 2012 Full Stack Developer Brownstein Group - Philadelphia, PA January 2015 to June 2015 • Implementation of Website for PFCU using ASP.net and C#  • Responsible for implementation of 10 member calculators  • Which supported Mortgages, 401k plans and savings  • Responsible for the implementation of backend rates editing  which allowed PFCU employee to edit website frontend rates  secured by the administrative backend user credentials.  • Responsible for geographic coding of PFCU locations  • Task completion resulted in time saving efficiencies for rating additions and updates.  Development Tools: Sitefinity CMS, MVC 4, Javascript, NodeJS, JQuery, Angular JS, C#, HTML5,CSS, ASP.NET 4.0, WPF, Web Service, SOAP, Visual Studio 2012, MSSQL, SQL Server 2008 R2 SBS 2011 Network Administrator Howes Accounting - Philadelphia, PA April 2014 to January 2015 • Implementation of server modifications to improve performance using SBS 2011 performance tools.  • Implementation of problem resolution logging using Microsoft excel.  • Implemented scheduled script to provide shutdown of sql writer to stop blocking  • Back up activity.  • Designed and coded Mobile App for contact and appointment scheduling.  • Setup printers on individual network work stations to be accessed by any user node on the network.  • Installation of Sage50 Updates.    Environment: SBS 2011,. Sql Server 2008, VB.net, Visual Studio 2012 Full Stack Developer RMP Parts - Pennsauken, NJ November 2011 to April 2014 • Modifications to top priority Web Service in support of client event logging activity using C# under Visual Studio 2012  • Provided acceptance testing criteria in partnership with team lead in the form of requirements analysis.  Development Tools: Windows 7. Azure Secure SQL Server 2008, C#, Web Services, SOAP, Dynamics AX, Agile Methodology, Visual Studio 2012, HTML5,CSS Web Developer JM Fox Associates - Conshohocken, PA January 2014 to February 2014 Development of a flexible and responsive cross browser web site for a real estate developer client utilizing HTML5  • Created PHP programs to display layout of available units.  • Oversaw user acceptance and implemented any corrections/enhancements requested.  Development Tools: HTML5, Javascript,CSS,JQuery, Angular JS, VB.net, MSSQL, Visual Studio 2012, php5 Web Developer The Health Works Group - New Town, PA November 2013 to December 2013 Key Accomplishments:  • Development of a flexible cross browser website for 3 major non-profit clients.  • Oversaw user acceptance and implemented any corrections/ requested within HTML5  • or as needed to satisfy user requirements.  • Modified Javascript to provide date time and date of birth drop down selections.  Development Tools: HTML5,CSS Javascript/css/JQuery, Angular JS, MSSQL,Visual Studio 2010, VB.net, Visual Studio 2012 Web Developer Corporation Service Company - Newtown, PA October 2013 to November 2013 • Project was done remote from my home  • Development of a flexible cross operating system mobile site template written in Javascript to be used for meetings and presentations and worked closely with the client to ensure cross browser integrity and stability.    Development Tools: HTML5/Javascript, Angular JS, VB.net, Visual Studio 2012 Web Developer Riverside Mortgage - Kingston, PA May 2013 to October 2013 • The assignment consisted of MVC web application enhancements using C# and Visual Studio 2012.  • Provided front-end changes to enhance Mortgage Management application to implement Telerik KendoUI drag and drop in support of Mortgage Representatives.  • Provided backend enhancements to provide efficient access to existing and new SQL Server stored procedures.  • Created new Mortgage Management modules to expand on-line reporting for agents utilizing C#.  Development Tools: Telerik KendoUI, vs2012, Windows 7, Crystal Reports, MVC C# , Javascript, HTML5,CSS and MSSQL, SQL server 2008 R2 Senior Web Developer Meta Pharmaceutical LLC - King of Prussia, PA April 2013 to May 2013 • Participated in complete Life Cycle including Analysis, Design, Development and Testing.  • Provided front-end changes to enhance email application to present text and html email  • for support of Sales Representatives.  Responsible for creating SQL queries and stored procedures using SQL server 2008 R2.  • Provided any coding requirements using C# under Visual Studio 2010  Development Tools: Windows 7, ASP.Net 2.0, ASP.Net 4.0. C# and MMSQL, SQL server 2008 R2 Web Developer Cadient Group - Conshohocken, PA December 2012 to January 2013 Provided front-end changes to present additional filtering options in support of locations and directions using Google Maps API to find specialists by state  zip, or Doctor Name filtered down to specialty utilizing C# under Visual Studio 2010.  • Provided Master Page enhancements.  Involved in implementing client side functionalities using Javascript and also involved in creating CSS classes for the application    Development Tools: Windows 7, ASP.Net 2.0, ASP.Net 4.0,Javascript, Angular JS, MSSQL and SQL server 2008 R2, C# Web Developer Aurora Financial Services - Marlton, NJ 2012 to December 2012 • Responsible for key coding of Financial Reporting improvements and updates.  • Participated in complete Life Cycle including Analysis, Design, Development and Testing.  • Implemented options and routines to improve applications performance utilizing VB.net.  • Used custom skins and themes for web page design utilizing Telerik Controls.  • Used Grid View control extensively for data display, dynamic generation of rows, and user input inside template columns.  • Used Edit Item-Templates and Footer Templates extensively for editing and adding rows utilizing VB.Net and Crystal Reports 9.0  • Responsible for creating SQL queries and stored procedures using SQL server 2005.  • Ensuring client satisfaction and accuracy.    Development Tools: Windows 7, HTML 5.0, CSS, Java Script, Angular JS ,VB,Net, ASP .Net 4.0, Crystal Reports, MSSQL, SQL Server 2005 Web Developer Infocures LLC - Pennsauken, NJ 2012 to June 2012 • Responsible for key application updates to track and display accounts receivable journal (Publications Media) entries for invoicing.  • Installed SQL Server database tables code in support of new features using SQL stored procedures  Development Tools: Windows 7, HTML 4.0, CSS, Java Script, C#, ASP .Net 2.0, MSSQL, SQL Server 2005 Web Developer Aurora Financial Services - Marlton, NJ November 2011 to 2012 • Responsible for key coding and requirements standards of Financial Reporting improvements and updates utilizing Crystal Reports and VB.Net.  • Implemented options and routines to improve applications performance utilizing .Net options.  • Installed SQL Server tables in support of reporting enhancements  • Performed server migration from Windows Server 2003 to Windows Server 2008 R2/IIS7  Development Tools: Windows XP Pro, Windows 7, HTML 4.0, CSS, Java Script, VB.NET, ASP.net 4.0, Win forms, Telerik Controls, MSSQL, SQL Server 2008 Visual Studio 2010 Sr. Software Developer/Analyst NBeauty Inc - Philadelphia, PA January 2011 to October 2011 • Project Management, Systems Engineering, Data Analysis, Functional Specifications, Application Development, Support and Enhancements through the Project Life Cycle.  • Supplied business systems/data analysis and design, requirements gathering, technical specifications, coding, testing (unit/systems/end-to-end) product implementation, documentation and training.  • Developed SQL Databases  • Salon Management - Definition and Implementation of business rules compliance within accounts receivables, payables and inventory control.  • Responsible for the forms design, prototyping, presentation and business logic coding  • of customer tracking ,inventory control, receivables, and payables.  • Design and coding supplies tracking using WinForms and local file system utilizing report viewer and MS Access.  • Design and coding of web based application for client tracking, inventory control, receivables, and payables.  Development Tools: Windows XP, HTML 5.0, CSS, Java Script, JQuery, Angular JS, VB.net, ASP.net 4.0, MVC Framework 3.0, WinForms, LINQ, SQL, MS SQL Server 2008 Visual Studio 2010 Sr. Software Analyst/ Developer Dobson Mills Valet - Philadelphia, PA June 2010 to December 2010 • Project Management, Systems Engineering and primary resource for Requirements Analysis, Functional Specifications, Application Development, Support and Enhancements through the Project Life Cycle.  • Supplied business systems/data analysis and design, requirements gathering, technical specifications, coding, testing (unit/systems/end-to-end), product implementation, documentation and training.  • Enhanced, Developed and Incorporated SQL Databases and Server.  • Dry Cleaning Management - Definition and Implementation of business rules compliance within accounts receivables, payables and inventory control.  • Responsible for the forms design, prototyping, presentation and business logic coding  of client tracking ,inventory control, receivables, and payables.  • Responsible for WinForms application for tracking and reporting dry cleaning outsourcing  Development Tools:: Windows XP, MS Access, Java Script, VB Apps, VB.net, ASP.net 4.0,WinForms, WCF, SQL, MSSQL, MS SQL Server Visual Studio 2008 Sr. Software Analyst/ Developer St. Andrews Fellowship Baptist Church - Philadelphia, PA December 2009 to June 2010 Project Management, Systems Engineer and primary resource for requirements Analysis, Functional Specifications, Application Development, Support and Enhancements through the Project Life Cycle  utilizing ITIL concepts.  • Supplied business systems/data analysis and design, requirements gathering, technical specifications, coding, testing (unit/systems/end-to-end), product implementation, documentation and training.  • Church Management - Definition and Implementation of business rules compliance within accounts receivables, payables and inventory control.  • Responsible for the forms design, prototyping, presentation and business logic coding  • for contribution tracking, inventory control, receivables and payables  Development Tools: Windows XP, MS Access, Java Script, VB Apps, VB.net, ASP.net 4.0, SQL, MS SQL Server Visual Studio 2010 Sr. Programmer/Analyst UPS - Paramus, NJ December 2008 to December 2009 • Active team lead resourced on support, application development, enhancement, user acceptance and Interface projects through the lifecycle.  • Supplied business systems/data analysis and design, requirements gathering, , technical specifications, coding, testing (unit/systems/end-to-end), systems conversions, product implementation and documentation.  • Vendor Conversion - (Rules Integration) Implementations of business rules compliance via developed gateway and Mainframe upload and interface.  • OPLD - (Origin Package Level Detail) Package Delivery and Tracking.  • Provided significant enhancement to Package Summary Reporting to improve accuracy of packages tracked. Sr. Programmer/Analyst Tokio Marine - New York, NY November 2005 to November 2008 • Pivotal resource on support, application development, enhancement and Interface projects through the lifecycle.  • Supplied business systems/data analysis and design, requirements gathering, data modeling, technical specifications, coding, testing (unit/systems/end-to-end), product implementation and documentation.  • OFAC ADMIN Workstation and Web Service: Developed key application to support user tracking and reporting of the OFAC Web Service (Overseas Financial Asset Control using C#  • Supplied efficient design, business/technical specifications, coding, unit, system/implementation plans and documentation.    Development Tools: Service Management, ITIL, and Help Desk Management  Stored Procedures, MySQL MS SQL Server, Visual Studio 2003, .NET C#, VB.Net, ASP.NET, Javascript, JQuery, Web Services, Oracle, PL/SQL Sr. Programmer/Analyst Cigna - Hartford, CT June 2001 to November 2005 • Provided analysis design and coding for insured claims conversion system.  • Supplied standards for unit and integration testing.  • Provided on going application support  • Designed and implemented the implementation plan. Sr. Programmer/Analyst Houston, TX June 1997 to November 2000 • Provided requirements, and function specifications for Tax Discovery Syem.  • Supplied coding, testing and real estate agents field documents.  • Provided on going application support  • Designed and implemented the implementation plan.    COMMENDATIONS  Sun Oil Company, City of Philadelphia, City of Houston, Cigna Education B.A. in Business Administration Operations Analysis LaSalle University - Philadelphia, PA A.S. in Computer Science Pierce Junior College - Philadelphia, PA Technical Writing Rice University - Houston, TX Skills Pl/sql, Sql, Stored procedures, Visual studio, C#, Html, Javascript, Php, Vb.net, Xml, Asp, Css, Asp.net, Web services, Mvc, Soap, Wpf, Cms, Ssrs, Spotfire, Angularjs, Front End, Angular, Wordpress, HTML5 Links https://github.com/ieltd/isaac