Sr. UI Developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Developer - We Work Companies Inc Columbus, OH ? Over 9+ years of experience in developing and designing user friendly, cross browser complaint web applications.  ? Hands on experience in front-end development with emphasis on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and JavaScript frameworks like Angular6, NodeJS, Require.JS, Vue.js, BackboneJS, Marionette.JS, jQuery and jQuery UIand a good knowledge in Ember and ReactJS.  ? Extensive experience in designing and developing web applications using CSS pre-processors SASS and LESS; CSS3 Media Queries, Usability, Responsive Web Design making the web pages fluid across multiple devices. (Grid, Fluid layouts and Break Point approaches)  ? Experience in implementing tardiest development approaches including MVC, event-driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON, and XML.  ? Strong experience in Angular Routing, UI router, Services, Factories, Directives and Filters; working with animations, states, $resource, and $q.  ? Knowledge in UI development, User Experience (UX) design, front end development, rich user interface design, documentation, web 2.0 specifications, media compatibilities (screen, mobile, touch interface), application architecture, visual design, and wireframes.  ? Used Data Driven documents (D3.js) in producing dynamic, Interactive data visualization in web browsers.  ? Extensive experience in developing single-page applications (SPAs) using Angular.JS framework and carrying out the subsequent interactions through Ajax requests via docker and kubernetes.  ? Experience in JavaScript Unit Testing using JUnit, and Angular End-End testing using Jasmine, also worked on Karma, Protractor and have a good understanding on Mocha.  ? Worked on responsive design using media queries, Bootstrap3 and AngularUI Bootstrap.  ? Experience in application development using BackboneJS framework - event triggering, backbone events etc.  ? Developed few backend REST API modules using NodeJS and node modules like Mongoose, Elastic Search etc.  ? Created, maintained and improved deployment processes (Jenkins, GruntJS, Vulcanize, Jenkins, Shell scripts)  ? Experience in designing UI patterns and UI applications with the help of Adobe products like Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Adobe Photoshop CS3/CS4, Adobe Fireworks CS3, and Adobe Illustrator CS3.  ? Used Apache cordova/PhoneGap for developing Android & iOS applications.  ? Extensive knowledge of social networking integration via Facebook API, and Twitter REST API.  ? Good experience in writing SQL Queries, Nginx, Stored Procedures, functions, packages, Webpack, Karma, NPM, tables, views, triggers and data connectivity and data integration of Oracle.  ? Excellent working knowledge and thorough exposure on compatibility issues with different versions of browsers like Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Safari and Google Chrome.  ? Strong debugging skills using Firebug, IE Tester, and Chrome Developer Tools.  ? General administration knowledge on various UNIX platform environments in patching, upgrading, configuration, tuning, and installing system-wide software.  ? Great ability to write clear, maintainable, well-documented, well-commented and efficient code for web development.  ? Firm understanding of agile, scrum. Test driven and waterfall development methodologies.  ? Highly dedicated, quick starter, solution driven pattern programmer, strong in object oriented analysis and design, excellent at solving complex problems under strict deadlines.  ? Strong perseverance and diligence towards attaining challenging goals and possess excellent communication skills. Work Experience Sr. UI Developer We Work Companies Inc 2017 to Present We leverage our relationships & proprietary database to give you access to the best inventory through exclusive and off-market listings.    Responsibilities:  ? Used React-Router 4 for page navigation and create neat nifty paginations over the application.  ? Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using React-Draggable.  ? Used Middleware, Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Back-End and to also perform RESTFUL services.  ? Testing REST endpoints through Soap Ui and Postman.  ? Redesigned the existing conversation module with ReactJS according to the client requirements.  ? Implementing patterns and technologies such as pub/sub, middleware, sandboxing, and require.js.  ? Experienced in developing React components. Used Axios with React JS for making AJAX Calls.  ? Worked with jQuery data tables for creating elegant and organized table and jQuery masking library for making masks on form fields and using ajax to deliver data from JSON file.  ? Developed Web Application using UI Bootstrap, HTML5, ES6, CSS3, Polymer, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery and CSS. The project is built upon the Single Page Application criteria.  ? Routed the pages in react using router 4 and imported UUID to assign IDs for each page or a customer.  ? Developed web applications using Typescript or ES6 features such as multi-line strings, restructuring assignments, enhancing object literals and arrow functions.  ? Created various re-usable Polymer components using vue.js polymer library.  ? Worked on various components of analytic dashboard for operational optimization using Angular and Polymer.  ? Created validation rules using validation.js and worked on other react libraries like boron.js, tooltip etc.  ? Worked with HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, React.js and ES6 for developing user interface.  ? Used Vue.js, Bootstrap.JS events distribution and parent chain for parent-child component communication.  ? Validations provided to some fields using Vue.js.  ? Working with AWS Identity and Identity Access Management (IAM) to created roles and policies.  ? Worked on creating highly scalable and fault tolerant applications that can be deployed in multiple availability zones and regions.  ? Automation of various administrative tasks using AWS Lambda services.  ? Used AWS SDK for connection to Amazon S3 buckets as it is used as the object storage service to store and retrieve the media files related to the application.  ? Developed API for using AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in the AWS.  ? Retrieved and saved data using the immutable.js by creating action and reducer for each container.  ? Proficient in developing web applications using Express.js and MVC.  ? Involved in developing applications using Angular JS like Grids, Toolbars, CORS, Panels, Combo-Box and Button etc.  ? Built prototypes for different insurance products: Life, Dental and Health.  ? Worked in an AGILE (Kanban) team by communicating with the business analysts extensively and deliver exactly what they need.  ? Developed the React container and Selenium presentational components (as Stateless and Functional components when applicable).  ? Created components and pages with proper state and props management between different pages.  ? Involved in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router and Flux concept.  ? Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and React Native used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  ? Used Rally application for managing all the user stories assigned by the business analysts.  ? Fetched data from mongo DB using Mongoose & TeamCity through Node.js.  ? Implemented SonarQube & Node.js server to manage authentication.  ? Involved in deploying applications in AWS environment using Jenkins, Dockers, Nginx and Git.  ? Used Rally application for managing all the user stories assigned by the business analysts.  ? Used Git and Webpack to implement the work environment and manage projects.  ? Implemented end of end test with Protractor & Karma.  ? Using partials and data attributes injecting UI efficiently by segregating the logic in the Model.    Environment: React Native, Require.JS, Express.JS, HTML5, , AWS, Jenkins, CSS3, ES6, Javascript, React.JS, Redux, Node.JS, Nginx, Enzyme, Angular.JS, GitLab, Github, Jasmine, Protractor, Selenium, SonarQube, Balsamiq, CORS, WCAG, XSS, SASS, Bower, Mocha, Chai, Scrum, Agile, Docker, Kubernetes, LESS, Java, MYSql, MongoDB, Rest, Microservices, Sublime Text, Webpack, Karma, NPM, Zoom, TeamCity, JSON, XML, Typescript, Ajax, Bootstrap.JS, Angular.JS, SCSS, Vue.JS, Jira, Babel, iOS, Android Sr. UI Developer Vodafone Group plc 2015 to 2017 M-Pesa: The service is designed to enable customers safely and securely to send, receive and store money via a basic mobile phone and, more recently in some markets, using a smartphone app.    Responsibilities:    ? Involved in ReactJS and working with React Flux architecture.  ? Build controlled (MobX) and uncontrolled shared custom components with React and Typescript.  ? Involved in ReactJS and working with React Flux architecture.  ? Used React JS for creating interactive UI using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts.  ? Implementing patterns and technologies such as pub/sub, middleware, sandboxing, and require.js.  ? Developed a web application by using Angular4 as front-end by using Web API to receive and pass data to back-end.  ? Used Angular-CLI for initializing and for project setup with scaffolding features.  ? Designed and developed web pages using with HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, Ajax, based on the W3C standards and Web 2.0.  ? Built Angular 4/2 components, UI services to consume rest services using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.  ? Implemented Angular 4/2 component router for navigation, Angular 4/2 services to connect the web application to back-end APIs made use of ES6 features.  ? Experience in end-to-end development and migrating the application to Cloud using the Amazon web services (AWS) availing various services of AWS like EC2, S3.  ? Experience with designing and configuring secure Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) through private and public networks in AWS and create various subnets, routing table, internet gateways for servers.  ? Generated responsive data tables using with Bootstrap grid system.  ? Implemented Angular, Bootstrap, LESS, and many JQuery plugins wrapped in Angular directives.  ? Used Nodejs for adding dependencies to project.  ? Wrote application level code to interact with backend and consume the JSON by using RXJS Observables.  ? Designed and modified User Interfaces using CSS and Angular.  ? Worked closely with business-side clients to deliver attractive, easy-to-understand screens that appropriate reflected the company's fulfillment workflow.  ? Worked with Docker for containing microservices and write docker file, Jenkins for Automated Integration and deployment process and kubernetes for deploying pods.  ? Actively involved in code review and code quality check process.  ? Followed Agile Methodology for the complete life cycle of the project & Involve In daily stand up meetings.  ? Configured typescript application through CORS, SASS, LESS & tsconfig file for various purposes like transpiling, debugging, tracing, generating separate folder for distributable etc.  ? Used Sublime Text Filters to change modify data.  ? Committed code change into repository by using version control tool Git & SVN.  ? Implement Services to store shared data between sibling Components and inject in to it for passing data purpose.  ? Used Node Package Manager (NPM) to import and applications.  ? Worked with task runners like Gulp in deploying and testing the android & iOS application.  ? Knowledge in creating Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop.  ? Interact with other developers and end users to design and implement new features throughout the framework.  Environment: Node.JS, React.JS, Javascript, HTML5, CSS3, AWS, Ajax, Bootstrsap.JS, Angular.JS, Redux, Angular 2, Jenkins, Docker, Kubernetes, Typescript, MYSql, REST, Chrome DevTools, ES6, Redux, Grunt, Gulp, Nginx, Github, Chai Selenium, Jasmine, Scrum, Agile, AWS, Jenkins, Docker, Kubernetes, JSON, XML, Android, WCAG , XSS, CORS, SASS, LESS, Java Sr. Web Programmer F.N.B 2013 to 2015 ELECTRONIC BANKING: With electronic banking solutions from First National Bank, you can manage your accounts and conduct routine banking transactions on your terms. From convenient payment options like the FNB Visa Debit Card to robust account management tools through Online and Mobile Banking, to quick and easy access to cash at one of over 550 conveniently-located ATMs.    Responsibilities:  ? Used JavaScript, Angular.js, and jQuery for user interactions in pages.  ? Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using responsive design and media queries.  ? Used JQuery Ajax for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  ? Rapid prototyping of design concepts.  ? Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML5 and React JS  ? Used AJAX to display the dynamic data in some parts of the page.  ? Used Angular.js, jQuery to handle all the functionalities in the page.  ? Manage and develop the project prototype.  ? deploying the applications in AWS as EC2 instances and create snapshots for the data that must be stored in AWS S3.  ? Utilized Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 to deploy Docker containers.  ? Entry level, yet strong use of jQuery, SASS, React.js, Javascript, Foundation, and Bootstrap  ? Worked with HTML, CSS, MySQL, Ajax, JavaScript, jQuery, XHTML, DHTML, LAMP, JSON;  ? Involved in developing the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  ? Integrated the ExtJs/Sencha framework with Oracle BPM.  ? Created ClearCase VOBs and setup triggers and backups for a new project. Wrote roll out procedures and plans. Environment was mixed Windows and AIX, projects written in C++.  ? Developed automation test cases using Java and selenium on Eclipse for web 2.0 Ajax application.  ? Expertise in employing Water Fall Model and best practices for software development.  ? Involved in detail design developing use cases, use case diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams and high level activity diagrams using UML from the requirements.  ? Used C++, Java, Servlets, JDBC, JSP and DAO for Coding/Implementation.  ? Implemented MVC design pattern for UI Layer using My Faces implementation of JSF and Tomahawk components, Faces Servlet and Backing Beans.  ? Extensively worked on business, front end and persistence tier using the JSP, Spring, MVC, and EXTJS/JSON.  ? I worked on the MySQL migration project .To make the system completely independent of the database being used. Used Spring IBatis to implement this.  ? Implemented Application by using Struts MVC architecture and jQuery.  ? Developed User Interface with effects and animations using Java Script, Ajax, JQuery, Flex, JSF, JSP, Flash and HTML.  ? EJB components are deployed on the Web Logic Integration with MQSeries using JMS. The database was Oracle.  ? Expertise with backend programming using PL/SQL Stored procedures Triggers and prepared statements on databases like SQL Server, Oracle and MySQL.  ? Used TOAD for all database query testing and optimizations. Efficient in upgradation and migration from SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2005/2008/R2.  ? Used DB2 as the database and wrote SQL & PL-SQL.  ? Design and Developed using WebService using Apache Axis 2 on JBOSS.  ? Developed the web services by using WSDL, SOAP using SOA.  ? Automate test cases using the built in framework in Selenium Web Driver using Netbeans IDE.  ? Implemented JBOSS Cache provider with Hibernate second-level cache for clustered caching using cache factory interfaces and also defined configuration mappings like setting the Isolation levels and other cluster configurations.  ? Create and maintain Amazon EC2 instance that supports the companies Redmine project management site and Mercurial CM  ? Created war files & deployed on Tomcat using ANT deployment tool.  ? Design and develop GUI and back-end components for analysis and collaboration software in Google Web Toolkit, Java and XML in a UNIX environment.  ? Quickly learned iText and implemented to solve Hungarian Special Character Issue.  ? Working Closely with EMC Documentum to implement Engineering Design Storage Repository and Project Document Management.  ? Developed a web 2.0 control console using GWT to manage data matching for data staging.  ? Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse and JIRA Bug Tracking.  ? Implemented JavaScript and Swing based functionality in front end designing and rich user interface.  ? Involved in Installation & Configuration of Cognos in distributed environments on Solaris.  ? Implemented two Java portals. One is Crystal Report Engine and the other is Jasper Report Engine as plug-in to other web-applications depending on the user's preferences.  Environment: Javascript, HTML, CSS, Ajax, Bootstrap.JS, SCSS, Typescript, Angular.JS, Jquery, SASS, LESS, Java, Spring, Hibnerate, Struts, PL\SQL, Oracle, DB2, Soap, REST, Eclipse, Weblogic, CVS, Selenium, Jasmine, Agile, AWS, JSON, XML, JIRA, Linux, Hipchat UI App Developer Oxford Health Plan Insurance 2010 to 2013 The services described in our policies are subject to the terms, conditions and limitations of the member's contract or certificate. Unless otherwise stated, our policies do not apply to Medicare Advantage enrollees. We reserve the right, in our sole discretion, to modify policies as necessary without prior written notice unless otherwise required by our administrative procedures or applicable state law.    Responsibilities  • Developed a web application by using Angular4 as front-end by using Web API to receive and pass data to back-end.  • Used Angular-CLI for initializing and for project setup with scaffolding features.  • Designed and developed web pages using with HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, Ajax, based on the W3C standards and Web2.0  • Built Angular components, UI services to consume rest services using Component based architecture provided by Angular  • Implemented Angular component router for navigation, Angular 4/2 services to connect the web application to back-end APIs made use of ES6 features.  • Generated responsive data tables using with Bootstrap grid system.  • Implemented Angular, Bootstrap, LESS, and many JQuery plugins wrapped in Angular directives.  • Used Nodejs for adding dependencies to project.  • Wrote application level code to interact with backend and consume the JSON by using RXJS Observables.  • Designed and modified User Interfaces using CSS and Angular.  • Worked closely with business-side clients to deliver attractive, easy-to-understand screens that appropriate reflected the company's fulfillment workflow.  • Actively involved in code review and code quality check process.  • Followed Agile Methodology for the complete life cycle of the project & Involve In daily stand up meetings.  • Configured typescript application through tsconfig file for various purposes like transpiling, debugging, tracing, generating separate folder for distributable etc.  • Used Filters to change modify data.  • Committed code change into repository by using version control tool Git.  • Implement Services to store shared data between sibling Components and inject in to it for passing data purpose.  • Transfer data between parent and child Components by using @Input and @Output.  • Used Node Package Manager (NPM) to import and applications.  • Worked with task runners like Gulp in deploying and testing the application.  • Knowledge in creating Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop.  • Interact with other developers and end users to design and implement new features throughout the framework.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Java Script/ ES6, AJAX, Angular, Angular-CLI, TypeScript, Node.js, Bootstrap, Responsive Design, XML, XHTML, Agile, Dreamweaver, JSON, DOM and Windows UI/UX Designer Alcoa Corporation 2008 to 2010 Alcoa has ownership in seven active bauxite mines globally and operates four of them, making us among the largest bauxite producers in the world.    Responsibilities:  • Working in Photoshop design comps developing HTML/JavaScript/CSS based web sites, including testing and debugging cross-browser.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Backbone.js and Node.js.  • To communicate with the backend worked wits Http module.  • Used advanced level of jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  • Developed Graphics using Paint Shop Pro/Photoshop & Animation using Flash/Fireworks.  • Developed fast loading images using Adobe Photoshop CS3  • Involved in designing and developing the JSON, XML Objects with SQL.  • Responsible for developing, editing, publishing and managing content on the external Web pages and internal layouts.  • Designed CSS3 based web pages, which were cross-browser compatible.  • Engaged in development of web pages using ASP.NET MVC, XML, VB.Net, CSS and UI enhancement coding.  • Developed, Configured and consumed Web Services in C#.  • Designed and coded Win Forms using C#, .NET.  • Extensively involved in User Interface designing using Web forms and also Win forms.  • Used JavaScript and .NET Validation Controls for performing client-side validations.  • Designed and Architected the Application using MVC and designed the application using responsive web design to work on different devices.  • Using web scripting languages like NodeJS and Yarn for interaction between client side and server-side technologies.  • Followed Agile and Scrum software development methodology.    Environments: Javascript, HTML, CSS, Ajax, Bootstrap.JS, Jquery, Java, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, PL\SQL, Oracle, DB2, Soap, Visual Studio, Eclipse, WAS, CVS, SVN, Selenium, Waterfall, AWS, JSP, Servlet, JSON, XML, Jira, Linux, Hipchat Education SCJP Boston University Skills VISUAL STUDIO, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, NODE.JS