Self Employed Self Employed Lead Web Developer / IT Manager Lake Elsinore, CA Work Experience Self Employed May 2018 to Present Lead Web Developer / IT Manager Traffik Advertising 2017 to 2018 Maintained AWS Servers for cloud hosting, installed and configure  ? Managed development of multiple client web projects. Self Employed Self Employed 2015 to 2017 Site development includes cs-electronics.com (Wordpress e-commerce), hpfcrm.com (SuiteCRM), teamrenezeder.com (Wordpress), adamheaneyhomeloans.com, alignmenthealthcare.com (Drupal) Lead Web Developer Click Consulting, Inc 2011 to 2015 Designed and developed a web-based employee time tracking application for a medium sized company. The application allows employees to enter their hours worked, supervisors to approve the hours, and accountants to process the entries and export to CSV for Quickbooks. Administrators could add job info, create employee profiles and assign roles. The site was developed with PHP, XHTML and jQuery UI Technologies.  • Developed, designed and/or maintained 30+ Drupal sites, 25+ Magento sites and 10+ Wordpress sites. Including: vintagevapours.com, vindicatedmedia.com, placentialibrary.com, admiralsupply.com, hazfax.com, thegreenpetshop.com.  • Part of the initial development team for hid.com and alteryx.com. Software/ Web Developer Total Media Solutions / Bankruptcy Alternative Services 2010 to 2011 • Designed and developed LifeScore, a web-based credit repair software with lead management and administrative panels.  • Designed and developed multiple websites for lead generation and client use.  • Developed multiple advanced financial and budget calculators for clients use. Calculations use advanced and efficient algorithms.  • Assisted in creating an advanced financial management CRM. Including a lead management panel, mail client and administrative panel. Lead Web Developer Trimark Advertising 2008 to 2010 • Responsible for the development and content updates of CityWaboo.com  • Developed front and back-end process for multiple client websites.  • The site was built on custom PHP technology. Web Developer Dohring Company 2006 to 2008 • Maintenance, content updates and development of MarketSurveys.com  • Survey Generation  • Updated and debugged proprietary survey generator software for more efficient and flexible use. The TCL application updates brought survey generation time down from 1.5 hours to 10 minutes on average. Assistant Operations Supervisor, Naval Reserves United States Navy 2004 to 2006 • Assist operations management with the scheduling and tracking of flight personnel  • Responsible for duties involving flight on SH-60 helicopter Operations Leading Supervisor United States Navy 2001 to 2003 • Reported to operation Chief and managed four flight scheduling personnel  • Liaison between customers and the European region flight coordinator in the planning and execution of logistical flight operations  • Decided aircraft availability, scheduled aircrew, responsible for flight hour tracking, maintained customer relations, ensured timely operational reporting  • Coordinated over 408 logistic missions, transporting over 110,300 pounds of cargo and 1,318 passengers on 2 King Air aircraft  • Effective planning and dedication to duty resulted in a 99% mission completion rate Aviation Maintenance Technician/Supervisor United States Navy 1992 to 2000 • Supervised a crew of 6. Performed upkeep, scheduled and unscheduled maintenance on the F-14D, and the MH 53E  • Provided maintenance procedure training to help ensure timely and efficient completion of all maintenance tasks  • Responsible for the procurement and tracking of parts needed for aircraft maintenance and upkeep  • Qualified 1 of 3 collateral duty quality assurance representative. Education Certification National University 2019 Skills AWS architecture design, installation, configuration and management (4 years), PHP (10+ years), MySQL (10+ years), jQuery (10+ years), Bootstrap (10+ years), Drupal (6 years), Wordpress (6 years), Magento (6 years), Angular2+ (4 years), Ionic Framework (2 years), SugarCRM, SuiteCRM (4 years), Python (5 years), Git Repositories (7 years), Machine Learning (1 year), SSH (7 years), HTML5, Front End, Javascript, Angular, Angularjs, HTML, Node.js (4 years), NPM (5 years), Drush (6 years), REST Api (5 years), TypeScript (4 years), TensorFlow (1 year), fast.ai (1 year), Google Analytics (10+ years), Google Tag Manager (5 years), Facebook Pixels (4 years), Shopify (4 years), Volusion (2 years)