IT Manager IT Manager IT Manager San Juan, PR 8 years of experience as IT Professional. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Manager Metro Puerto Rico - San Juan, PR May 2017 to May 2019 • Responsible for management of all local IT systems in a newspaper publishing environment.  • Installation and maintenance of all IT systems (computer, telephony, mobile, software).  • Responsible for all IT documentation, IT ticketing system, backup and disaster recovery.  • Maintenance of MS-Windows-based servers and MS-Exchange mail servers.  • Management of MS-SQL database servers.  • Support the IT Global team for implementing new software/solutions.  • Evaluate user needs and system functionality.  • Ensure that ICT facilities meet the needs of individuals and projects.  • Planning, developing and implementing the ICT budget, obtaining competitive.  • Prices from suppliers, where appropriate, to ensure cost effectiveness.  • Scheduling upgrades and security backups of hardware and software systems.  • Researching and installing new systems.  • Ensuring the smooth running of all ICT systems, including anti-virus.  • Software, print services and email provision.  • Ensure that software licensing laws are adhered to.  • Ensure the security of data from internal and external attack.  • Providing users with appropriate support and advice.  • Managing crisis situations, which may involve complex technical hardware or software problems.  • Mentoring and training new ICT support staff.  • Keeping up to date with the latest technologies.  • Contributes to organizational policy with regard to quality standards and strategic planning according to Global IT and company policy.    Accomplishments: Maintain operations of the newspaper in operation after Hurricane Maria, Restructure the IT department to develop the new infrastructure of information systems and electricity for the new office, collaborating closely with the architect to meet the design and implementation time establish and transfer the data center to the new headquarters building. System Administrator Universityof Puerto Rico, Medical Sciences Campus - School of Medicine - San Juan, PR July 2016 to May 2017 • Administering, maintaining, supporting and troubleshooting over 200+ workstations including desktop units, notebooks, laptops, iPads, monitors, network printers and other communication devices associated with all desktop hardware.  • Creation and administration of Active Directory accounts for 700+ users and 200+ workstations including OU roles.  • Used remote access programs like DameWare and Microsoft Remote Desktop to perform support to end-users.  • Supporting end-users and successfully troubleshooting laptops and desktop environments that were running Microsoft Windows 7 \ 8 \ 10 \ Mac OS X \ Linux.  • Completing all aspects of new workstation preparation including setting up and imaging workstations using Ghost, Acronis and FOG Project software.  • Deployment of various operating system images like Windows 7 \ 8 \ 10 \ Mac OS X \ Linux at the same time with FOG Project.  • Performing data migration and quality assurance testing.  • Provide support to Blackboard users and administer the Blackboard Enterprise (BbE) course management system.  • Manage users and courses in the Learning Management System (LMS).  • Installation/configuration of Local Area Network (LAN), VLAN & Wireless Network.  • Installation, Configuration and Deployment of ManageEngine ADSelfService Plus.  • Monitored network infrastructure using Spiceworks.  • PowerShell, Batch, Bash, Python, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, MySQL, Linux, VMware vSphere, VMware ESXi. IT Specialist Pontifical Catholic University of Puerto Rico - Arecibo, PR October 2013 to December 2015 Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Work in a University setting,  • Responsible for the automations operations and management of three laboratories  (Biotechnology, Chemistry, and Environmental Science) and two classrooms in support of 26  work stations and five daily sessions, for an average of 650 customers (students, practitioners and professors) per day.  • Responsible for the installation, maintenance, and operation of computers (desktops and laptops), network components, peripheral equipment, software, firmware, data, customer  support, and related resources.  • Planning, installation, configuration, testing, of the above components in support of the three  laboratories and classrooms architecture as per University standards.  • Monitor students Work Study Program.  • Customers Services - work with clients installing, configuring, troubleshooting, and maintaining customer hardware and software, and maintaining problem tracking and resolution  databases.  • Problem solving - provide direct and remote assistance to computer users, troubleshooting and resolving a wide variety of hardware and software problems on personal computers, laptops,  printers and peripheral devices such as scanners, and personal digital assistants.  • Attention to details - consistently identify, analyze, and resolve countless software and hardware-related issues by conducting detailed researches, tracing detailed history of operational  activities, and advising customers senior leadership and site inspectors on solutions.  • Oral communication - develop and present oral presentations pertaining to ideas, facts,  technical, sensitive, and controversial information to individuals and groups with variety of disciplines effectively.  Supervisor: Dadia Escribano, M.Sc. (787-881-1212)  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes  Freelance Web Designer  133E Santana  Arecibo, PR 00612-5340 United States Web Designer Freelance Web Designer - San Juan, PR January 2005 to August 2013 Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  • Writing and editing content.  • Integrated websites with Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube.  • Social Media Monetization Strategies.  • Optimizing web assets for optimal speed and performance.  • Researching new technologies, software packages and hardware products.  • Participating in discussions with clients to clarify what they want.  • Testing a website before it goes live top identify any problems.  • Designing and deciding on the visual layout of a website.  • Designing sample page layouts including text size and colors.  • Involved in creating a comparison site from scratch.  • Helped end users to solve operating problems.  • Participated in brain storming sessions to come up with ideas.  • Changing the code, software or graphics of existing websites.  • Producing reports and statistical information for senior managers.  • Performed routine updates, upgrades and overall maintenance of websites.  • Coordinate email marketing campaigns and newsletters.  • Implement and modify existing design elements.  • Provided guidance and advice to less experienced staff.  • Providing technical support to end users.  • Worked on multiple projects simultaneously to a high standard.  • Creating back up files.  • Editing content, debugging code and re-designing web pages.  • Designing prototypes for app's and websites.  • Creating logos, banners and buttons for websites.  • Simultaneously managing several databases and reporting tools.  • Identifying and correcting software deficiencies.  • Devising SEO strategies based around specific keywords.  • Registering web domain names and organizing the hosting of the website.  • Coding using a variety of software.  • Working with different content management systems.  • Protects site by designing and installing security precautions.  • Provides information by collecting, analyzing, and summarizing data and trends.  Pontifical Catholic University of Puerto Rico  Carr 662 KM 2.3  Arecibo, PR 00614-4045 United States Internship in Information Systems ( Web Developer) Pontifical Catholic University of Puerto Rico - Arecibo, PR January 2012 to May 2012 Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  • Designing a Web application online courses for students to register, book and enroll courses, and other academic activities. Also enables the ability to create their courses and maintenance.  • Set up a server with Linux operating system on which a LAMP environment was installed  using the following applications: Apache Server, PHP, MySQL and phpMyAdmin.  • Once the server is configured, moved to stage design and coding, then to the stage of evidence.  In the design process direct communication with the IT Department staff remained.  Supervisor: Rafael Nieves (787-881-1212)  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes    EMSystems Group  2504 Boulevard Ave.  Levittown, PR 00949 United States Technician EMSystems Group - Toa Baja, PR January 2008 to May 2008 Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  • Network Installations, Apps Development, Systems Designs and integration.  • Installation and maintenance of: Imprinters, Clock punchers, Computers, Servers.  • ID Works, Embossers, SP35, SP55, SP75 and others products from DataCard.  • Cash Dispenser, ATMs and others products from NCR.  • Currency Counter Machines from Magner and Cummins provide leading-edge products and solutions for the banking and government. We serve the following markets:    • Banks: Popular, Doral, Oriental, Scotiabank, Santander, First Bank  • Credit Unions: Coopaca, Oriental Coop, Cabo Rojo Coop, Coop Pepiniana, Coop Aguas  Buenas, Coop Abraham Rosa, Caribe Federal Credit Union, San Rafael Coop, Bo. Quebrado  Coop  • Government: CESCO, DTOP, Puerto Rico Power Authority,"PREPA"  • Hospitals: Ashford Medical Center, Auxilio Mutuo, Hima Hospitals  • Hotels: San Juan Hotel, Sheraton Convention Center, Courtyard Marriot  • Health Plans: SSS, MCS, First Medical, Constellation Health  Supervisor: Edwin Muniz (787-784-2710)  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes  Pontifical Catholic University of Puerto Rico  Carr 662 KM 2.3  Arecibo, PR 00614-4045 United States Web Designer Pontifical Catholic University of Puerto Rico - Arecibo, PR November 2007 to December 2007 Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  Title V: Exploiting Technology for Academic Improvements (ETAI)    • Participating in discussions to clarify what they want.  • Designing prototypes for the website.  • Presenting initial design ideas.  • Creating logos, banners and buttons for website.  • Writing and editing content to the Web site.  • Identifying and correcting website deficiencies.  • Testing a website before it goes live top identify any problems.  • Devising SEO strategies based around specific keywords.  • Performed maintenance and updates to the Web site.  Supervisor: Carmen Betancourt, Ph.D. (787-881-1212)  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes    King Uniforms & Industrial Laundry  Interstate #2 Km 69 Bo.Santana  Arecibo, PR 00612 United States Customer Service King Uniforms & Industrial Laundry - Arecibo, PR August 2006 to September 2007 Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  In the Administrative Office:  • Computer, invoice processing, end of the month, endorsing checks, filing, serve clients by phone and office related work.    In the shop:  • Scan and put into function embroidery machines as well as the monitoring of their same. Public  address, sale and collection of products to store inventory. Computer repair.  Supervisor: Reynaldo Perez (787-881-1167)  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes Education Master's in Information Systems Major in Information Security and Fraud Investigation EDP University of Puerto Rico - San Juan, PR August 2014 to December 2015 Bachelor's in Business Administration in Information Systems Minor: Management Pontifical Catholic University of Puerto Rico-Arecibo - Arecibo, PR January 2010 to June 2013 Associate in Information Technology Support Pontifical Catholic University of Puerto Rico-Arecibo - Arecibo, PR August 2008 to December 2010 High School Diploma in Electrical/Electronics Equipment Installation and Repair, General Antonio Lucchetti Vocational High School - Arecibo, PR August 2001 to May 2004 Skills Vmware, Mac OS X, Windows 7, Windows 8, Active Directory, Network Administration, Network Security, Network Management, Project Management, FTP, Exchange Server, Installation, DNS, Firewalls, Windows, Linux, Virtualization, Printers, Office Applications, Service Desk, Cisco, HTML, exchange, SQL, Customer Service, Disaster Recovery, IT Management, VoIP Additional Information Technical Skills:    Operating Systems: Windows NT, 98, 2000, XP, Vista, 7, 8, 10, Ubuntu, Linux, Unix, Mac OS, Server 2000, 2003, 2008 and 2012.    Server Administration: Active Directory, Domain Controllers, GPO, Exchange Server 2003 to 2010, IIS 6.0 to 7.5, SQL Server from 6.5 to 2008, ISA Server, MS Configuration Management Server, WSUS, DNS, DHCP, WINS, Apache.  Server and PC Virtualization: Hyper-V 6.0, VMware Workstation 5, 6, 7, 8, VSphere 4, VMware ESXi, Parallels 4, 5, 8 and Windows Virtual PC 2007.    Backup and Disaster Recovery: Symantec Backup Exec 12.5 and Windows Backup System, in Dell Power Vault 114T and HP Storage Work MSL 2024 Tape Library.    Network Security: Nessus, Fortinet Firewalls, WebSense Web Filtering, WebSense e-Mail filtering, Watchguard, Cisco Pix, Kaspersky, Norton, McAfee, Panda, Avast.    Computer Forensics and Audit: FTK, ACL, Helix, IDEA.    Penetration Testing: Kali Linux, Metasploit, Exploit Pack.    Hardware: FortiGate 60c, 60d, 600c, HP ProLiant & Blades servers, Dell Servers, IBM Servers, Automated Tape Library, Enterprise Storage Systems, Apple Macs, RAID Configuration, Printers, Ricoh and Xerox Multifunctional, Cisco Routers, Cisco Switches, Firewalls, HP StorageWorks.    Network: Ethernet, DSL, TCP/IP, Wi-Fi, FTP, VPN, SNMP, SAN, NAS, iSCSI.    Software/Toolkits: Ninite, DameWare, FOG Project, ManageEngine ADSelfService Plus, Spiceworks, Lansweeper, Acronis, Microsoft Office 2003, 2007, 2010 Project, Visio Pro, ADP, PeopleSoft, Dynamics GP 10, Salesforce, Microsoft Office, Visio, Open Office, MS Publisher, HP Insight Manager, Norton Ghost, HP Rapid Deployment, Roxen Editorial Portal    Languages: PowerShell, Batch, Bash, Python, HTML, XHTML, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, Visual Studio.    Social Media Experience: Blogs, Social Networking, Forms and Surveys, Statistics, Forums, Webmail, Guestbooks, Client Management, Help Center, Web Content Management, Live Chat, Mailing List, Photo Galleries, Wiki, eCommerce, RSS, Project Management, Backups, Education, Product Sourcing, Podcasts, streaming audio/video, Flash.