Freelance web development for Boston area digital agencies Freelance <span class="hl">web</span> development for Boston area digital agencies Frontend Developer specializing in Angular and IoT Austin, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance web development for Boston area digital agencies FAT ASTRONAUTS December 2012 to Present Projects included eCommerce website, landing pages, HTML emails and WordPress site development & maintenance. Senior Front-end developer CARNEGIE TECHNOLOGIES February 2019 to July 2019 contributed to a hybrid mobile app build on Ionic 3 and Angular 4 and a web app built on Angular 4 and Ionic 3. Work included converting an  internal library to Angular package format; restructuring applications for better  maintainability and reduced code duplication; maintenance of a Jenkins based CI/CD  process; code review and mentoring developer as the Angular expert. Worked closely with UX designers to increase consistency of UI. Senior Front-end developer BUILDASIGN November 2014 to February 2019 tasks included: creating an in browser SVG image editor  powered by Angular 2-5+, building a private NPM package to share build tasks, linting, styleguide generation and reusable Sass partials across multiple UI design  systems built for the company's different websites, restructuring legacy code to pre/post processed CSS. Recoding the front end to be responsive and semantic.  Knockout, AngularJS and Vanilla Javascript development, mostly consuming  homegrown APIs. Increased cross department collaboration with Creative / Design  team to improve process and UX GENUINE INTERACTIVE November 2013 to September 2014 Front-end web developer specializing in user interface and responsive web development. Web developer and digital strategist OTW COMMUNICATIONS March 2011 to November 2012 built/maintained websites using  WordPress, Codeigniter, PHP/MySQL and HTML/CSS; planned and executed social media contests using Wildfire and Buddy Media;  coded HTML landing pages and email campaigns.  Clients include: RSA, Bermuda Department of Tourism and local  businesses and healthcare providers FAFARAZZI.COM January 2008 to March 2011 Primarily in charge of development using object oriented PHP and MySQL; integration of popular APIs including Facebook Connect,  Twitter and Photobucket; implementing white label installations for partners that included FOX, MTV, VH1, Bravo and Lifetime; database  optimization; maintaining an RSS aggregator; and preparing reports. Education BS in INTERACTIVE MEDIA NEW ENGLAND INSTITUTE OF ART Skills Angular, Javascript, Front End, HTML5, Jquery Certifications/Licenses Certified Scrum Product Owner (CSPO) March 2018 to March 2020