Senior UX Strategic Designer and Insights Lead Senior UX Strategic Designer and Insights Lead Senior UX Strategic Designer and Insights Lead - Lenovo Rolesville, NC Work Experience Senior UX Strategic Designer and Insights Lead Lenovo - Morrisville, NC September 2018 to Present Workflow/Delivery  • As a lead of the Insights team, we work cross-functionally with other User Experience Design teams and focus on market research. • Bootstrap  • Establishes and maintains relationships with internal and external customers (Microsoft, Intel). • Content Management  • Plan, budget, oversees and documents all aspects of monthly and bi-annual data-driven deliverable for a System (WordPress and flawless executions every time. Moodle)  • Use my creative talents to create visually pleasing and intuitive info-graphics, animations, eNewsletters, • QlikSense  PowerPoints and large online/offline reports. • Qualtrics  • Create and utilize journey mapping or other critical thinking to show the customer's journey while using • Microsoft Client Portal  Lenovo products (software or hardware), along with the competitors. Using customer sentiment, goals, and • Google Universal/  touch points to understand the clear path and channels the customers are taking. Analytics  • Actively presents to key stakeholders of the insights found and as a thought leader to recommend the best • Google Tag Manager  course of action. • Understanding of  • Plan and host brainstorming creative sessions to gather a list of ideas to later evaluate the results for the bi- Cross-Site Scripting  annual report for future business ideas backed by data.  • Usability Research and  • Host educational sessions either put on by myself or by third party vendors like InVision.  Testing  • Participate in design reviews as seen as a Senior UX Designer and host design reviews as well.  • Strong, consistent, and compelling storyteller. • Journey Mapping  • Created and established the UXD's branding based off of the Lenovo Branding. • Interface Design  specification documents UI Designer and Technical Lead Lenovo - Morrisville, NC June 2016 to September 2018 lifecycle  • Lead technician on process improvements initiatives including SVN set up and other utilities aimed to • Understanding of user- improve performance and productivity. Always looking for innovative and technical ways to improve the centered design  team performance. Also, mentors other junior engineers on the team. principles  • Identifies risks and page performance issues to minimize an undesirable user experience. • Version Control Systems  • Translate metrics, research findings, user feedback, and user testing to define interaction models, user task  subversion  flows, and UI specifications.  (TortoiseSVN, Team  • Communicate and present scenarios, end-to-end experiences and interaction models to stakeholders.  • Designed, developed and support several team websites within Lenovo. Foundation Server, Git)  • Collaborate with user and business stakeholders to envision ways aimed to provide remarkable and • JIRA/Confluence  memorable user experiences. • Ability to low or high  • Translate design and development process between business and development teams, creating pixel fidelity prototype ideas  perfect high-fidelity prototypes with html, css and JavaScript. into reality  • Produce design concepts that transition easily to different teams, including design assets, working  • Cross-browser  prototypes and comps for Lenovo preload software applications.  Compatible  • Senior designer, highly collaborative global team atmosphere with Agile development experience.  • Supports pre-loaded software apps for all of Lenovo Consumer, Commercial and Gaming Devices. • Constant Contact  • Presentation Skills Web Developer and Designer / CTG Lenovo - Morrisville, NC November 2014 to May 2016 As a part of the Global Web Development part of day to day responsibilities would consist of debugging, creating and/or updating templates in TeamSite and creating prototypes. TeamSite would enable web  content writers to create pages without needing to know code.  • Maintaining and troubleshooting Lenovo's intranet and internet.  • Utilizing a variety of languages and technologies such as CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Handlebars, AngularJS, SASS, XSL, JSON, DCT and XML.  • Able to produce detailed wireframes and sitemaps within Visio using the JJ Garrett principles.  • Worked in an Agile environment that consisted of daily Scrum meetings, ability to write stories and score  stories effectively. Documentation, enhancements and maintainability of the code and documentation is a must.  Applications and Tools  • Ability to work within a team environment inclusive of designers, peer developers and business/requirements team that's a large global team. • Adobe Creative Suite  • Strong understanding of production, different environments and to examine changes to see if there are any (Dreamweaver, Flash, risks involved. Illustrator, XD,  • Able to be flexible to maintain several projects and to switch priorities quickly. Premiere, InDesign,  • Trained business users on new templates in TeamSite and also ongoing support. Also hosted show and tells Photoshop, and on prototypes that have been developed.  Acrobat)  • Rapid Prototyping Senior Programmer Analyst First Citizens Bank - Raleigh, NC October 2013 to November 2014 • Microsoft Office  • Sole developer to maintain and developed for www.firstcitizens.com, firstcitizens.mobi and to support the  (Excel, PowerPoint and web applications 24/7.  Word, Lync, Visio)  • Refine and iterate user experience by designing and implementing new modules and pages into firstcitizens.com. Utilizing CSS, PHP, JSON, HTML, MySQL and JavaScript. • Camtasia  • Capable of receiving direction as to the scope or specifications document, and accurately design and develop • Articulate  to meet those specifications. • Git  • Administered and maintained Google Tag Manager and Google Analytics. Monitored results and troubleshot • Notepad++  when needed to get optimum results. • Online Ad Serving  • Worked closely with the Business users to ensure Google Analytics/Universal is tracking correctly and able to  (24/7 and OpenX)  measure goals effectively and technically. Developer Chrome - Tampa, FL November 2011 to May 2013 • Oxygen XML Editor  • Wordpress / Drupal  • Worked with different departments in a highly-creative, collaborative and fast-paced custom e-learning  provider agency. Demonstrated the ability to take ideas from concept thru all phases to deliver the final  product. Languages  • Implemented creative instructional design, from prototype to delivering the final e-learning course using  Flash, ActionScript, XML and Flash Builder. • HTML 5 and below  • Created meaningful, memorable, and motivational e-learning experiences thru an Agile Development  • CSS  Process.  • Created custom WordPress themes for B2B clients that ranged from membership sites, branded login • XML  screens, document depositories and employee portals. • JSON  • Performed a variety of e-learning production tasks other than programming when called upon. Designing • PHP  UI/UX visuals and conducting quality assurance for other developers. • SASS  • MySQL Web Designer and Developer / Independent Consultant Bootstrap - Tampa, FL April 2007 to November 2011 • ActionScript 3 and  • Designed and developed custom WordPress themes for websites. Often converting .psd formats into below WordPress themes utilizing custom widgets, blog pages, and integration of social media or constant contact • Familiar with AngularJS,  and database management. XSL, JQUERY, JavaScript,  • Prototypes and UI deliverables; including wireframes, flowcharts, and screen mock-ups.  and Handlebars  • Technologies utilized: PHP, HTML 4/5, JavaScript and CSS 2/3. Ensuring cross-browser coding was properly  coded and tested.  • Actively reviewed and researched web analytics to ensure client's message was propagated over different  channels.  • Created online and offline corporate identities for small and medium sized companies. Education Bachelor Degree in Business and Marketing in Business and Marketing University of Phoenix - Tampa, FL September 2005 associates in design and videography Tampa Technical College in Visual Links http://www.claudia-cokis.com http://@claudiacokis Certifications/Licenses Driver's License