Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Northrop Grumman Vienna, VA Mid-level Software Developer looking for new opportunities to grow and learn at a new workplace. Work Experience Software Developer Northrop Grumman - Springfield, VA May 2018 to Present Developed and maintained on EVUS and ESTA projects utilized by CBP (Public facing  sites here: (https://esta.cbp.dhs.gov/esta/ and https://www.evus.gov/evus/)    Utilized Spring boot, Maven, Hibernate and Java 11 for developing on the backend for both projects. Maintained and developed JUnit tests with Mocked objects to simulatee real data during testing.    Used Javascript/TypeScript, AngularJS (EVUS), Angular 6 (ESTA), HTML/CSS, NPM,   Cordova (For mobile development), Gulp and Angular CLI for development on both projects. Maintained and developed Jasmine/Karma unit tests for the front-end functionality. Also configuredTesseract.JS to recognize text from uploaded images.    Utilized Git and SourceTree for Version Controlling projects. Used a Jenkins build suite  with Marathon/Jenkins/Docker files to maintain builds, testing, and deployments on the cloud. Software Developer Underlook Studios LLC - Reston, VA October 2016 to November 2017 Authored a Java 8 Project with LibGDX, JUnit testing, and Collection frameworks for a  PC game, including developing 2d rectangle collision system for game entities in Java.    Created a JSON/OpenGL-based framework for reading data and displaying it via front-endOpenGL rendering.    Utilized TileMap Java framework to insert various objects within game levels.    Utilized Git and SourceTree for Version Controlling projects and Gradle as dependency manager.    Repository for game can be seen here: https://github.com/Flashnub/ Developer AOL - Dulles, VA August 2015 to August 2016 Developed extensive software features for Alto Mail app, including a scrollView displayfor a list of emails, working with iOS CoreData framework to store data client sidefrom the server, and implementing many mobile-specific features for UI such as swipe, press, hold gestures and their interactions to the mail list.    Utilized many front-end technologies such as Objective C, Swift in XCode and Java/Kotlin in Android Studio for app development. Also utilized front end web technologiesHTML, CSS, Javascript, AngularJS) for transitioning mobile data to web  page content.   Called various REST API services from the iOS frontend and coordinated with the  backend team to document request/response format     Coordinated Agile Sprints via JIRA. Created user stories and tasks about features/bugfixes.    Utilized Git and SourceTree for Version Controlling projects. Web Developer Lockheed Martin - Ashburn, VA May 2013 to July 2013 Implemented several features enhancing the PilotWeb website, including updates to Javascript, CSS, JSP, and HTML formatting. Used JIRA to plan Agile sprints and create tasks/user stories.    Utilized Spring framework to update the backend for PilotWeb website. Worked in Eclipse with Tomcat Server and used SVN for version control. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Virginia Tech - Blacksburg, VA August 2011 to May 2015 Skills Javascript, Android, MYSQL, Git, Python, Android, CSS, HTML 5, Jquery, Shell Scripting, Swift/Objective C, Java, Maven, Angular/AngularJS, SQL, C++, Tensorflow, Spring, Hibernate/JPA, Gradle, Software Development Certifications/Licenses Driver's License