PC Technician PC Technician Web Developer Costa Mesa, CA Work Experience PC Technician CarePharm Pharmacy - Bakersfield, CA October 2018 to April 2019 Install, configure, and maintain Printers, PCs, Apple, and Laptops.  • System upkeep such as password resets and software updates  • Configure and troubleshoot Routers, Switches, and other Networking Devices Web Developer Vodafone Telecommunications Company - Cairo, EG July 2015 to July 2018 • Good Experience in developing the Single Page Applications using Angular, Bootstrap, Angular Material and Node.JS.  • Extensive experience in Web Applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Typescript.  • Experience with various IDE's such as Visual Studio Code, Microsoft Visual Studio.  • Experience in using Chrome Developer Tools for debugging and troubleshooting the code.  • Highly skilled at Front-end/ Back-end engineering using Object-Oriented Programming (OOP).  • Experience with MySQL DataBase and Firebase.  • Hands on Experience on Angular CLI (Command line Interface).  • Expertise creating user Validation Forms and sending data to server using RESTful services.  • Extensive experience in GitHub. Education B.S. in Electronics and Electrical Communications Engineering College of Engineering, Fayoum University - Cairo, EG February 2017 Skills Html, Javascript, Node.js, Typescript, OOP, CSS, HTML 5, Git, MySQL, Angular (3 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/randa-riad-62aaa7115 https://github.com/RandaRiad Additional Information SKILLS  • Computer Skills and Development Tools:  • Operating Systems: Android and Windows (XP, 7, 8, and 10).  • Web Technologies: HTML, OOP, JavaScript, Angular, CSS, Node.JS, TypeScript.  • Database: SQL Server, MYSQL.    Other Skills:  • Interactive and fast enough to learn new technologies.  • Ability to work and to achieve goals under pressure.  • Ability to work in a group or individually according to the job requirements.  • Excellent interpersonal communication.  • Cooperation with others in sensitive & effective way.  • Detail oriented.