Event Assistant Event Assistant Web Developer / Email Campaign Specialist Chicago, IL I am an innovative front-end developer with nearly 8 years of web and graphic design experience. I have strong communication and organizational skills, work well under pressure and I'm able to meet deadlines. Creativity is my passion. I strive to bring new ideas to the table and encourage others to think differently. Work Experience Event Assistant Ravenswood Event Services - Chicago, IL June 2016 to September 2016 Event setup and takedown  Taste of Chicago, Jazz Fest etc Web Developer / Email Campaign Specialist First Page Sage - Chicago, IL September 2015 to February 2016 Front End Web Development, Graphic Design Web Developer / Email Campaign Specialist Sears Holdings Corporation - Chicago, IL October 2013 to January 2015 Built and deployed targeted, mobile responsive, dynamic email marketing campaigns launched from the Oracle Responsys Interact Platform Sr. Web Developer / Designer Fusion Technology Solutions Group - Chicago, IL December 2012 to August 2013 Lead design and development team throughout every web project, from strategy, conception to design and production Contract Web Developer / UI/UX Architect Saggezza / Career Education Corp - Chicago, IL June 2012 to November 2012 Helped develop university web portal used by 80k+ students    Produced high quality design that represented user experience defined in functional specifications, wireframes, flow diagrams, schematics and prototypes Sr. Web Developer / Designer Absolute Video & Multimedia - Kalamazoo, MI July 2010 to August 2011 Managed several web development and interactive projects    Conducted internal employee training and facilitated internal and external communications Education Digital Animation & Game Design Ferris State University - Grand Rapids, MI Skills MARKETING (8 years), ADOBE PHOTOSHOP (8 years), HTML5 (8 years), ILLUSTRATOR (8 years), Wordpress (5 years) Additional Information TECHNOLOGIES    HTML5, CSS3, jQuery ??????????  Adobe Photoshop & Illustrator ??????????  Microsoft Office ??????????  Email Marketing & Development ??????????