Electrical Engineer Electrical Engineer Bremerton, WA An experienced software developer with a specialty and passion for designing and maintaining high reliability and high efficiency software applications. 3 years of experience as a full-stack web developer designing, maintaining, and operating high-availability web applications and an unrelenting enthusiasm for learning new technologies. Recognized for improving system reliability, increasing application throughput, and streamlining development work flow to promote development of new features without loss in application stability. Work Experience Electrical Engineer McLaughlin Resea - Keyport, WA April 2019 to Present Serving as a domain expert for the maintenance of mission critical Naval electrical systems. Lead Web Developer Montana State University March 2018 to April 2019 Responsible for leading, training, and collaborating with a team of 3 other developers. Improved and maintained  MSU's tutor scheduling platform, real-time auction system, and student data reporting platform. Met with stake- holders and end users to develop specifications, troubleshoot problems, and recommend solutions.    • Designed novel interface that reduced time to enter tutor time sheets from 40 hours to 20.    • Improved site reliability by introducing test driven development practices.    • Reduced application response time and increased database throughput.    • Improved code integrity by engineering automated testing process.    • Reduced new site deployment time from 1 minute to ~1 second.    • Created extensive developer documentation. Web Developer Montana State University September 2016 to March 2018 Improved and maintained MSU's tutor scheduling platform, real-time auction system, and student data reporting  platform.    • Reduced implementation of automated emails from hours to minutes.    • Implemented mobile-friendly user interface for student facing site. Education Bachelors of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Montana State University - Bozeman, MT August 2015 to May 2019 Skills GNU, REAL-TIME, DATABASE, MYSQL, SQL, VISUAL STUDIO, APPLICATIONS DEVELOPMENT, C++, Git, JAVASCRIPT, PHP, PYTHON, OPENGL, BASH, GLSL, APACHE, LINUX, CSS, nginx, HTML5 Links http://linkedin.com/in/joebobmiles https://github.com/JoeBobMiles Certifications/Licenses Secret Clearance July 2019 to July 2029