Software Developer I Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> I New York, NY • 2+ years of experience as Front-End Web Developer creating highly scalable web  Applications including requirement analysis, design implementation, testing with emphasis  on Object Oriented JavaScript and Client Server technologies.  • Expertise in developing end to end applications using MEAN stack - MongoDB, ExpressJS,  Angular 7.0/6.0/4.0/2.0/1.x, NodeJS along with Javascript and JQuery.  • Solid understanding of using Angular 7.0 Components, Directives, Pipes, Reactive/  Template Driven Forms, Router to implement various functionalities, along with Guards to  protect routes.  • Experience and understanding of component interaction using Observables, rxjs Subjects,  input/output decorators and Services.  • In-depth understanding of using D3.js and Fusion Chart in Angular 7 to create Dynamic  Data Visualization.  • Good understanding of user authentication using JWT (JSON web tokens) for performing  Server-side validations.  • Experience with server-side scripting language Node.js. Used several npm packages such  as express, mongoose, passport JS, body-parser etc along with it.  • Excellent understanding of databases involved in application development using  Relational Database like MySQL, and NoSQL database such as MongoDB.  • Possess extensive knowledge on OOPS concepts hands on experience with object-oriented  JavaScript and Typescript.  • Involved in all phases of SDLC using SRUM/Agile Environment.  • Used various tools such as Git as Version Control System (VCS) and using Azure Devops for  continuous integration/continuous deployment of builds.  • Knowledge of various IDEs like Visual Studio Code, cloud 9, Eclipse, JS fiddle, Sublime text.  • Experience in working with REST API testing tool like, Postman.  • Quick Learner, ability to work independently and adapt to the emerging new technologies  and paradigms. Work Experience Software Developer I AECOM October 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in Agile/SCRUM based approach to develop web-based application.  • Take on end to end ownership of front-end development and working closely with product  managers & team leaders.  • Revamp existing applications by adding various modules depending on requirements and responsible for creating, maintain and improving UI and bring consistency to UI layout.  • Use all possible features of Angular 7 framework to build, modify and plugin front end to the backend.  • Developed internal iOS assessment application using XAML and with various plugins of Xamarin and C# for UI, used SQLite for backend.  • Manage source codes versions with version control systems such a git/GitHub.  • Work in multidisciplinary team with other professionals such as back-end developers and web designers.  • Build and maintain SharePoint sites for efficient sharing of project resources.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap 4, jQuery, REST APIs, Angular 7, NodeJS, REST, AWS, SharePoint 2013, Azure DevOps. SOCIAL MEDIA MARKETING CONSULTANT VIRTUAL ASSISTANCE INTERNATIONALS March 2016 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Off page SEO including Social media marketing, article marketing, email marketing, blog/forum posting, wen content/ article writing, administrative /secretarial work, email  management, calendar management & presentations.  • Created prototypes in HTML5, JavaScript and CSS3 for different UI pages for different clients.  • Developed few web page components with different styling using semantic-UI, bootstrap  and css3 as per client requirement.  • Used High charts and D3.js for creating Graphs and charts according to JSON/ Raw data  provided by clients.  Environment: HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, semantic-UI,bootstrap, High charts, SEO. WEB DEVELOPER SATVA DESIGN STUDIO August 2015 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in creating Single Page Application using AngularJS in Front-end and NodeJS in backend.  • Implemented Two-way data binding for efficiently managing view data and model data.  • Created various controllers and dynamically loaded them as per the view in the application.  • Used RequireJS to optimize the performance of the AngularJS application  • To efficiently manage data among controllers, created various services in AngularJS.  • Extensively used $http services to consume backend REST APIs by handling promises in the front-end.  • Used $location and $routeParams services to handle routes as per the requirement.  • Designed and implemented UI layout using HTML5, CSS3, SASS, Bootstrap and used Task  runner to automate the compilation from SASS to CSS.  • Used $emit, $broadcast and $on for different controllers to be notified for various events.  • Implemented routing using $routeProvider to perform navigation in the app at the configuration level.  • Implemented form validations using various form events like, ng-pristine, ng-touched, ng- dirty and used ngClass to give desired styling to invalid fields.  • Created various REST APIs in NodeJS and ExpressJS as middleware. Performed Database  operations using mongoose as ODM for the MongoDB database.  • Used Robo mongo now Robo 3T which is a shell-centric and cross-platform MongoDB  management tool  Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, REST APIs, AngularJS, MongoDB, NodeJS, Express  JS. JR. WEB DEVELOPER KEDAR SOFT - Ahmedabad, Gujarat February 2013 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed all the UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, vanillaJS, jQuery.  • Developed page layout, navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients  and the management review.  • Used Bootstrap and Media Queries to develop pages with responsive design.  • Worked on different modules including the error validation of forms and links, realized via  jQuery and JavaScript.  • Extensively worked with making APIs calls to fetch the data from the back - end as JSON  response and parse it on the UI for manipulation.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.  • Used AJAX to facilitate dynamic and asynchronous manipulation.  • Performed DOM manipulation using DOM and DOM functions.  Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, SQL Server 2008. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Texas A&M University Kingsville May 2018 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Gujarat Technological University May 2015 Skills Angularjs, Bootstrap, Html5, Sass, Visual studio, C#, C++, Git, Html, Javascript, D3.js, Mongoose, Typescript, Jenkins, Json, Xml, Eclipse, jquery, Ajax, Css, PHP, HTML 5 Links https://drashti2277.github.io Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Web HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, LESS, SASS, Bootstrap 4.x, Semantic-UI,  Technologies: JavaScript, Typescript, ES5, ES6/ES7, AJAX, JQuery,  AngularJS/2.x/6.x/7.x, RequireJS, Rxjs, Express.js 4.x, NodeJS, , High  charts, D3.js, Angular charts, Angular gauge, axios, mongoose, Passport  js, Passport-local, Paper.js, bycrypt(NodeJS library), Npm, XML/JSON,  REST APIs, CRUD, DOM manipulation, C++, C#.  Tools: Visual Studio Code, Visual studio 2010( Web applications), Cloud 9,  Sublime text, Eclipse IDE, Robo 3T (Robo mongo), Jasmine, Karma, JIRA,  Gulp, Grunt, Jenkins.  Database: MySQL 5.x, SQL Server 2008, MongoDB 2.x, DynamoDB  Operating Windows XP/Vista/7/8, MAC OS X, Linux  Systems:  Version Control: GIT, GITHUB, Azure DevOps.