UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - CVS Pharmacy Bentonville, AR • 5 years of experience in designing and developing web applications using extensive front-end and Backend technologies.  • Skilled in - Angular 2-6, Node.js, JSPs, Java - Struts & Spring-MVC, REST & SOAP Web service.  • Worked on SDLC involving Agile methodology using with strong experience in  implementation of advanced features of UI scripting and frameworks.  • Extensively Worked on CSS processing platforms like SASS and LESS.  • Expertise in client and server-side scripting languages - Angular 2.0, Angular4/5, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, Bootstrap, Node.js, AngularJS and JSP.  • Implemented routing and lazy loading features in a large-scale SPA using, Angular 2/4/5/6, Node.js and MongoDB  • Experience in creating and consuming Web Services - REST and SOAP using Java, NodeJS Express from small to large scale applications.  • Experience in designing, testing and developing internet/intranet Web-based applications, Client/Server applications using J2EE Architecture, OO Design patterns, and Core Java.  • Great hands-on experience in implementing Junit Tests using Java PowerMock and Mockito frameworks, debugging the issues using Console logs, Putty.  • Maintain code versioning and excellent understanding on multiple environments - DEV, QA, PROD of Application Development and Experienced in Team Foundation Server TFS.  • Excellent understanding of Software Quality, Configuration Management and Software Release Practices.  • Skilled in DOM Functions SEO and W3 web standards required for a rich web application development.  • Excellent hands-on and great exposure on compatibility issues with different browsers in scope like IE, Mozilla Firefox, and Chrome.  • Experience in designing, testing and developing internet/intranet Web-based applications, Client/Server applications using MVC and Object-Oriented Architecture of Java.  • Ensure industry standard code quality and code coverage using Cobertura and SonarQube analysis for both Java and Angular applications.  • Experienced in Unit Testing frameworks like - Jasmin and Karma.  • Expert at creating functional specifications with visual design mockups in Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator and Adobe Flash.  • Experienced in development of table-less-layouts with Bootstrap grids and CSS as needed.  • Implementation of iFrames and Experienced in developing vulnerable free High Traffic Websites.  • Experienced in Agile Methodology witch SCRUM. Followed Standup meetings, Sprint Planning, Grooming and Retrospective.  • Highly energetic and enthusiastic in learning and implementing new web-technologies and methods.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills demonstrated through exposure in working with Technical, Quality Assurance and Business Analysis groups.  • Involved in Understanding functional specifications and developing creative solutions to meet business requirements. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Developer CVS Pharmacy - Northbrook, IL January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked on Development of Single Page Application using Angular (v4, v5, v6) along with Node.js, NPM and Java-Springs.  • Created Angular modules, controllers, directives, and filters to deploy the entire business logic.  • Building REST services using Angualr, Node and Java-Spring.  • Implemented router requests using ParamMap, built dynamic components using  NgComponentOutlet.  • Worked Extensively with Angular CLI for creating components, Services, pipes, Directives.  • Adhered to coding standards by covering Java Junit and Angular Unit Test Coverage to industry standard using PowerMock, Mockito and Mocha respectively.  • Worked on new features of Angular 4 like new if else syntax, ng-templates, and form  validators.  • Worked on Reactive Form validations using updateOn, to specifically implement validations based on user actions.  • Primarily focused on Spring MVC components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, View Resolvers.  • Worked on Backend services integration and DB data updates in MongoDB.    • Developed and worked on designing Schemas for MongoDB Collections considering application scope, dropping the collections and working with modifications in NoSQL db.  • Use of HTTP methods for developing REST calls using Spring Boot Actuator.  • Provided continuous support as part of End-to-End Application and Services team to the dependent teams within Assurant  • Gather Business requirements from Product Owners and work closely with the Users in development of requirements and designing the mock-ups for business approvals.  • Writing tests for the feature work using different testing tools like Jasmin, Mockito, Karma.  • Wrote test cases to test the MongoDB operations by mocking the queries calls.  • Worked as key resource in Dev support from UI to squash the application defects in SIT, UAT, PT and Prod environments with tight timelines.  • Worked on Closures in JavaScript and familiar with popular browsers development and debugging tools/plugins for IE tester, Chrome Inspector and Firebug.  • Involved in technical feasibility decisions with respect to new features in the application.  • Developed an independent SPA that is handed over as end-point to dependent teams  • Single point of contact from End-to-End development team for independent application.  • Worked on legacy DB operations involving SQL.  • Worked in an extensive work environment for teams in Chicago and New Jersey with excellent co-ordination in terms of requirements fulfillment and frequent standup calls.  • Development of multiple context roots for different development platforms using Gulp  tasks and Webpack.  • Covered Unit Testing of developed modules with 90% accuracy and code coverage.  • Continuous Development and Continuous integration on Cloud Services platform with deployments using Team City, Jenkins and Jira.  • Update and log any project level enhancements and documentation on Confluence for future tracking.    Environment: Angular 2-6, JAVA- spring MVC, MongoDB, AWS, NodeJS, TypeScript, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, AJAX, Ember JS, SASS, GIT, Bugzilla, Mocha and Mockito. UI Developer Home Depot - Atlanta, GA March 2016 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked on 5 verticals of an application on Agile based development cycle with a weekly release schedule.  • Also involved in complete SDLC life cycle - Designing, Coding, Testing, Debugging and Production Support for over 4+ projects.    • Involved in SCRUM methodology with daily Standup, Sprint Planning, Grooming and Retrospective.  • Created HTML pages from the PDF's given by the UX and used Angular2 to retrieve data  from the rest services with scope of both REST and SOAP UI.  • Develop rich SPA using Angular2 with Lazy load implementation and Gulp build for build optimization.  • Develop and consume RESTFUL Web Services using Node JS and JAVA as backend and MongoDB / Oracle as DB for data fetch and update operations.  • Created reusable Secure Controls that enable/disable themselves based on current user's  permissions.  • Involved in Web Application using MVC3/MVC4 , WEB API.  • Continuous code integration and appropriate version control using GIT and RALLY.  • Followed Syntactical procedure to use SASS and generated Nested Stylesheet using same.  • Used Bootstrap library to quickly build project SPA UI's using Angular 2 and Java as backend.  • Worked on building the Angular application from scratch by considering the library scope using package.json.  • Worked closely with Business Analysts and Product team in understanding the technical requirements of each project and prepared the use cases for different functionalities and designs.  • Used NPM for UI task and development activities and strongly experienced in data operations using NPM and MongoDB.  • Worked on migrating DAT source from SQL(Oracle DB) platform to NoSql(MongoDB) platform.  • Adhered to coding standards by covering Angular2 UNIT Test Coverage to industry standard using Mocha.  • Ensured industry standard coverage of JUNIT testing using SonarQube report.  • Timely tracking of SIT and UAT and provided required support as needed.  • Carefully included and developed custom directives for application considering the future scope of application.  • Performed release activities for all accepted user stories followed by each sprint.  • Implemented Pipes, Conditional logics and cached data flow across Angular 2.0 to populate the data from DB on to user screens.  • Performed Web test and load test using TFS.  • Worked with QA team on daily basis in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  • Ensured appropriate error handling when dealing with Web service calls using Angular to backend.  • Migrated content from existing website to a new, database driven website, utilized in house Content Management System    Environment  Angular 2.0-5.0, HTML 5, CSS 3, NPM, NodeJS, AJAX, JSON, XML, C#, ASP.NET with C#,  MongoDB, TFS, JSON, Rally, SonarQube, Jenkins, Java, Maven, console logs Web Developer CenturyLink - Bengaluru, Karnataka May 2015 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developing the complete user interface for the entire website using HTML, CSS and  • JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX.  • Used JavaScript, and AJAX technologies for front end user input validations and Restful web  • service calls.  • Used AJAX with jQuery to parse JSON object to dynamically overlay contents on web pages.  • Utilized JSON for data exchange between client and server for request data and response  • processing.  • Angularjs code development and Integration of components.  • Dynamic Components creation in AEM.  • Interacting with the BA/Leads in scrum calls and understanding the requirements.  • Estimation for the accepted User Stories in the sprint.  • Tested the implemented UI screens using emulator, IPAD, IPHONE, and other real- time  • devices to make the consistent behavior.  • Developed and implemented several test cases using Jasmine and performed load testing.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, XML & XSLT, WebStorm, SVN, HP QC, Adobe Site catalyst, Java - Spring, Jenkins. Education Bachelor's in Electronics and Communications JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana Master's in Computer Science Oklahoma City University - Oklahoma City, OK Skills Javascript, Angular, Front End, JAVA, JSON, MongoDB, UI, AJAX, node.js, Spring, Javascript, CSS, JQuery, MVC, Backend, Bootstrap, Agile, HTML, Jenkins, Junit, SCRUM, TFS, Angularjs, Jquery, HTML5, HTML, Bootstrap, Wordpress, Bootstrap, HTML Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Technologies  Angular (2, 4, 5 and 6), REDUX using NgRX, RxJS, AngularJS, NodeJS, Java - Struts, Spring MVC, TypeScript, Responsive Web Design, SCSS, HTML 5, XSL, XML, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON    Development Tools  Web Storm, Eclipse, NetBeans, Notepad++, Microsoft Visual Studio, Sublime Text 2, Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop CS5, MS Visio    Databases My SQL Server, Oracle, Mongo DB  Methodologies MVC framework, AGILE SCRUM, Waterfall  Version Control & Build Tools GIT, SVN, Maven, Ant, Jenkins, Team City  Testing & Performance Junit, Grunt, GULP, Jasmine, Karma, Mocha, PowerMock, Mockito  Operating Systems Windows, Mac OS X, Linux