ASP.Net Web Developer ASP.Net <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> ASP.Net Web Developer - Harrell's LLC Lakeland, FL Work Experience ASP.Net Web Developer Harrell's LLC - Lakeland, FL October 2017 to Present • Build web features for office use and daily plant operation processes.  • Leveraging ASP.Net API to build data driven modules (SOA) that include scrolling/pagination.  • Manage rich content display for cross platforms using bootstrap and Javascript libraries such as jQuery UI and AngularJS.  • Formulate complex queries such as joins or union using dapper or entity framework and manipulate the outcome using LINQ to Query.  • Collaborate with stakeholders to help groom backlog and maintain defects tracking. .Net Software Developer HealthFirst - Lake Mary, FL December 2016 to October 2017 • Created automated processes using OpenSpan.  • Created OpenSpan components using C#.  • Applied separation concerns techniques such as removing DAL(data access layer) from the automation process.  • Applied Dependency Injections techniques to adjudicate claims from different data source (claim coming from database or a service).  • Assumed QA position and used ALM for testing and defects tracking.  • Used black/white box testing as QA tester.  • Participated in agile ceremonies (backlog grooming or coordinating with BAs).  PHP Web Developer Internship Rustik Image Photography - Savannah, GA January 2016 to May 2016 • Modified the CMS OpenCart to fit the business needs of Rustik Image.  • Built custom plugins such as email notification on purchases and picture size manipulations.  • Built modules to interact with Square API suite for online payments.  • Modified the UI of OpenCart using JQuery and bootstrap. iOS Developer Armstrong State University - Savannah, GA October 2015 to December 2015 • Built an iOS app that can capture user's current location so a notification can be attached to that location and alert the user when closing to that location.  • Used Google API to provide location data and Alamo Fire for API consumption.  • Used SQL lite for temporary storage of the locations and notifications. Java Web Developer Armstrong State University - Savannah, GA May 2014 to November 2015 • Built a Java Web app that allow users to formulate test questions along with possible answers.  • Used PrimeFaces for UI and controller modules.  • Used MongoDB for data storage. Education Bachelor in Information Technology in Information Technology Armstrong State University - Savannah, GA 2012 to 2016 Miami Edison Sr. High School - Miami, FL June 2001 Skills Api, C#, Content management, Javascript, Oop, Php, Laravel, Swift, Asp, Content management systems, Asp.net, Java, jquery, Jsf, Html5, Ios, Soap, Mongodb, Mysql, Rest Assessments Search Engine Optimization — Familiar August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/kcwkt6fkmkkum7gd Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS  ASP.Net (4 years), C# (4 years), Java JSF (3 years), PHP Laravel framework (2 year), iOS-Swift(1 year), Composer and PHP Content Management systems (1 year), MySQL (4 years), MongoDB (2 years), JavaScript (JQuery) (4 years), Html5 and CSS3 (4 years), JAVA Prime faces (3 years), SOAP, REST- API, OOP