Freelance Web Developer Freelance <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Freelance Web Developer - Bryan C. Dulaney Apt, AR Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance Web Developer Bryan C. Dulaney - Detroit, MI June 2015 to Present Specialize in custom Wordpress Development utilizing the Genesis Framework for page templating, PHP  for back-end functionality, JavaScript and CSS for dynamic UI design.  • Deploy sites to live host using MAMP/LAMP stack.  • Provide individualized client consultation and project management services. Web Developer Wayne State - Detroit, MI April 2018 to June 2019 • Develop and maintain web resources for Case Based Learning (CBL) Labs.  • Develop internal applications for Med School faculty and staff  • Assist the System Administrator with basic networking and web protocols for hosted applications on medtech and med-core servers  • Create documentation detailing basic processes of the web development cycle Instructor Grand Circus - Detroit, MI September 2015 to March 2019 Instruct bootcamp students in developing dynamic web applications utilizing a variety of programming  languages including Java, JavaScript, HTML5, and CSS.  • Instruct bootcamp students in deploying web applications using a variety of web tools including Git, Spring, Tomcat, JDBC, MySQL, and AWS.  • Instruct bootcamp students in core OOP principles through developing curriculum in the form of lecture  material and coding exercises.  • Instruct coding seminars for prospective students and corporate training. Lead Developer / System Admin Leon & Lulu - Clawson, MI June 2015 to April 2018 • Full-stack development of company sites utilizing Wordpress, PHP, JavaScript, and CSS  • WooCommerce integration, customization, and bug fixes.  • Custom design and UI layout utilizing HTML5, CSS, and Adobe Creative Suite design tools Photoshop, Illustrator, and InDesign.  • Handled System Administration duties on the MAMP stack, resolved all hosting issues on server using  command line, site migration, and G Suite network integration.    Technical Skills  Development  Extensive knowledge and practical experience in developing apps utilizing OOP in a variety of languages  including Java, JavaScript, PHP, and C#. Experienced in MySQL and API integration, as well as software  frameworks such as Spring, JQuery, Genesis and testing suites such as JUnit. Expertise in custom CMS  development and website deployment on MAMP/LAMP stack.  Design  Extensive experience in digital design utilizing the Adobe Creative Suite to create wireframes, custom designs, banner ads and email marketing. Highly skilled in transferring static design documents into dynamic web  content utilizing a variety of front-end languages and libraries including JavaScript, JQuery, and modular CSS.  System Administration  Experienced in server management, hosting multiple sites and resolving network issues utilizing command line, ftp, and version control. Highly competent in Git, SQL, and the G Suite of analytics tools. Education B.A. in Music University of Michigan - Ann Arbor, MI 2008 Skills PHP, Javascript, Angular, Wordpress, C# Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/bryanchasedulaney https://github.com/bryandulaney