Systems Developer Systems <span class="hl">Developer</span> Systems Developer Work Experience Systems Developer RMIT TAFE May 2016 to May 2017 Completed an Associate Degree in Information Technology with Distinction (RMIT TAFE)    Work Experience in IT  Role: Systems Developer  Company: Yadoya Guesthouse (Japan)  Period: May 2016 - May 2017  Working part time as a sole developer, I created a booking management system for a small youth hostel in Japan. The system was made in Google Docs, with most work being done in Javascript. The tasks I worked through during this project were;  ? Discussing goals and requirements with management and with staff members  ? Developing application code in Google Script/Javascript  ? Migrating and validating data from old unformatted Excel spreadsheets  ? Training users on how to use the new software  ? Iteratively making improvements and developing new features based on user feedback Database Developer DASSAN April 2015 to October 2015 Here I worked part time as a sole contractor, designing and developing an online database application from scratch. This application was made in Oracle APEX, and helped employees keep track of client data. Tragically, most of the application's data was lost in a server failure shortly after completion, which ended my involvement with the project. Web Developer Studio 164a May 2014 to December 2014 I worked at Studio 164a, a local web development company. Most of my work was centred around Charitable, a project which was in its early stages at the time. My main duties were;  ? Developing and debugging Wordpress plugins in PHP  ? Interface design and implementation in PHP, HTML5/CSS  ? Addressing bug reports  ? Documenting functionality for users Database Officer Charles Darwin University July 2013 to December 2013 Technology: SQL (Oracle+SQL Server), Oracle Apex  Here, I worked on database systems used in the postgraduate department. Key responsibilities were;  ? Analysing user requirements, and designing database solutions  ? Doing bug fixes and tweaks on existing SQL code  ? Creating reports and other user interfaces in SQL and Oracle Apex  ? Working with legacy systems in SQL Server  ? Performing and validating data migrations    Other  ? Served as a representative on the SSCC (Student Staff Consultative Committee). The role consisted of;  ? Gathering feedback about course quality from the student body  ? Preparing reports based on this feedback  ? Relaying this information to course coordinators during meetings  ? Active member of the RMIT Information Security Collective (RISC), participating in various problem-solving competitions based around offensive security, such as;  ? CySCA (Cyber Security Challenge Australia), a large-scale team based event  ? The Tel-Aviv Checkpoint Challenge  ? The PrivaSec CYBAR CTF  ? Smaller CTFs hosted by RISC  ? Also attended training workshops with EY, Dimension Data and Deloitte