Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer New York, NY Work Experience Web Developer NewYork Presbyterian Hospital, NewYork June 2017 to January 2019 Responsibilities:  • Designing and developing dynamic web pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Angular 1.6.  • Coded extensively in JQuery to make rich internet web pages and created custom date picker on the website.  • Prepared the project technical documentation in Wire frames.  • Design website and maintain the website content up to date.  • Front end development using MVC, AngularJS, TypeScript.  • Excellent problem solving skills and the ability to work independently.  • Experience creating using JavaScript and Flash animation using Adobe Flash 5.5 dynamic FLASH applications.  • Developed all client-side logical implementation part of applications with AngularJS controllers under specific modules, manipulating nodes in DOM tree.  • Used AngularJS filters for filter functionality in search box and integrator functionalities.  • Defined new validations through Angular.js for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • Worked on Angular.js Grids and UI components to develop Views/Templates.  • Wrote AngularJS controllers, views, and services and Customized Data Tables and High Charts into AngularJS Directives.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Experience using different jQuery and bootstrap plugins for the web pages.  • Integrated with the back-end code (JSP) using JQUERY, JSON and AJAX to get and post the data to backend servers.  • Experience in cross browser compatibility check and thoroughly performed unit testing and integration testing.  • Re-designing/ developing the main website to improve user experience and add new functionality.  • Worked on the website from start to finish to give it a new look using HTML5/CSS/JavaScript.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5/HTML, DHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Created UI designs using Web 2.0 standards.  • Developed Web API using Node.js and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  • Involved in one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme for the website and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML5/CSS3, JavaScript and Angular.  • Developed cross browser and multi browser using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Angular.js  • Developed CSS styles to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  • Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  • Writing server-side request handling and automated functional test cases to validate UI functionality using NodeJS, JavaScript.  • Designed dynamic table management and user validation features using HTML5, JavaScript and AngularJS.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like node.js.  • Develop administrative interfaces with the technologies of JSP, JSF, node.js, JavaScript.  • Did extensive JavaScript and JQuery programming to give AJAX functionality for the website.  • Further tasks include management of all MySQL database and all the required tables to store different survey information related to the site.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Node.js, Angular1.6, JCA, MS Access, WPF, DynamoDB, Adobe Flash, MS Office, IE 6, 7, 8 9 10, Git, JIRA, Jenkins, Firefox, Chrome, Bootstrap. UI Developer Matrix Solutions - IN September 2014 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements, Analysis and responsible for designing page layout using HTML5, CSS3 along with JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery and adding dynamic functionality to each module.  • Used High charts for creating Graphs and charts for payments section and implemented the filtering functionality for the graphs.  • Designed and Developed UI Web 2.0 Applications using JQuery UI that would Search, display and maintain accounts.  • Written controllers and components that are responsible to hold model data, call back functions and for rendering views.  • Contributed with database designs and assisted in increasing response time for APEX reports.  • Creating HTML pages for the responsive layout using media queries (breakpoints).  • Responsible for ensuring the pattern consistency across all pages.  • Used JQuery and CSS selectors, toggles, and hover functionality, ToolTip.  • Using complex Object Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Designed application framework and developed Oracle APEX Application.  • Integrated payment card encryption, implementing electronic funds transfer payments, protecting application from different kinds of security threats (CSRF, XSS, etc.)  • Extensively involved in development of Mobile applications related to financial domain  • Making pages that are cross-browser compatible and used Source tree server for project development.  • Used JSON and AJAX for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers  • Used Bootstrap to show and hide classes for different and grid classes to create RWD.  • Create complex JIRA workflows including project workflows, screen schemes, permission scheme and notification schemes in JIRA.  • Used agile methodology for the software development.  • Ran Bower and Grunt components and wrote the scripting using NodeJS.  • Developed application using AngularJS and NodeJS connecting to the backend.  • Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the ongoing project status and issues.  • Developing client side validation code using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed different JQUERY component in MVC micro architecture framework which internally use various design pattern such as singleton, command, delegate, etc.  • Implementation of TDD Using Jasmine Testing.  • Handling all the activities related to designing for Production on Web site.  • Performed testing and documentation of UI and services  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, NodeJS, Bootstrap, AJAX, Agile, jQuery, Jasmine, JSON, Oracle, TDD. UI Developer Soft Merge - IN February 2013 to August 2014 India  Responsibilities:  • Worked on present customer goals through ecommerce sale maximization.  • Responsible for working with stakeholders to elicit, analyze, specify and validate business and solution requirements to meet business needs.  • Worked with the clients to develop layout, color scheme for the web page and implemented them accordingly with the help of HTML, CSS.  • Used SQL to create customer, products and payment data base and Payment methods.  • Involved in design, development and execution of oracle content management and oracle Document Capture solution.  • Develop database scripts for Oracle SQL Server, and SQL Base.  • Developed CSS classes to GUI web page controls and forms.  • Used jQuery to make dropdown menus on web pages and display part of a web page upon user request and used jQuery Events to manipulate the elements depends on the user interactions.  • Implemented JavaScript source code, embedded nested handling logic using JQuery event handlers and call back functions.  • Developed JavaScript library for rendering domain-specific layout XML to the web.  • Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using client side scripting using JavaScript.  • Writing application level code to interact with the backend Databases using Oracle SQL Server 11g.  • Used Strong loops API to create dynamic end-to-end REST APIs with little or no coding.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Used GitHub for Version Control.  • Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages.  • Been an active team player, helped in fixing bugs and carried out troubleshooting.  • Produced semantically appropriate, standards compliant mark-up, and produced Rich User Interfaces.  • Used all the advanced Photoshop features to create appealing visual web interfaces.  • Involved in writing and modifying Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers using MySQL.  Environment: HTML, Bootstrap, JavaScript, SQL Server, S3, Strong loop API Ajax, JQuery, CSS, AJAX, JSON, GitHub. Education Master's