Webmaster Webmaster Webmaster - Bazaar Star Beadery Hoboken, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Webmaster Bazaar Star Beadery - Ridgewood, NJ March 2019 to Present The Bazaar Star Beadery is a bead store which allows customers to make custom made jewelry and hosts spiritual events. My responsibilities as the webmaster include managing online social outreach, e-commerce, and any and all updates to the website. Bergen County NJ - Tutor Self-Employed April 2019 to June 2019 Through Generation Coders, National Honor Society, and TECH Camp, I have spent hundreds of hours teaching. Because of this, I have started tutoring on my own time outside of school. I teach mathematics and programming to middle school age children. Software Developer Intern BrightLogic Inc - Midland Park, NJ September 2018 to May 2019 BrightLogic is the industry's leading interactive LED floor experts. I intern with their engineering team to work on their Active Floor product. I worked in C# and JavaScript to develop software to run the floor, as well as on applications that run on the floor. Full Stack Web Developer Intern Readorium - Teaneck, NJ June 2018 to September 2018 Readorium is a company/product which is developed to help younger kids learn subjects like Mathematics, Science, and English. During my time with them I was able to work mainly on the back-end of their product. I worked with their databases, as well as updated their product and created new analytics tools. I worked mainly in SQL and PHP to develop their web application and manage their database. Front End Web Developer Intern Sooryen Technologies - Oradell, NJ June 2014 to September 2017 Sooryen first employed me as a trainee during the summer of 2014. From June to September, I acquired the skills necessary for web development (HTML, CSS, SCSS, JavaScript, JQuery, and Moovweb) and iOS development (Objective-C, XCode, and the MVC framework). During the summer of 2015, the following school year, and the summer of 2017, I worked as a front-end intern. During this time I was involved with the renovation of several existing websites, as well as in creating new websites from scratch. Education BS in Computer Science in Computer Science Stevens Institute of Technology - Hoboken, NJ August 2019 to Present Skills C# (1 year), C++ (1 year), Git (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (3 years), HTML (4 years), CSS (4 years), SQL (1 year), Wordpress (2 years), Microsoft Office (5 years), Excel (2 years), JQuery (2 years), PHP (1 year), Java (4 years), Python (4 years), Teaching (2 years) Assessments Critical Thinking — Expert August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/h-oqglhsvjly2rhn Problem Solving — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/2rgpfnnf-5xdgtgi Data Analysis — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/yrc0r-dywwmnrmf Spreadsheets with Microsoft Excel — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate’s Microsoft Excel knowledge including common tools, PivotTables, conditional & nested formulas, and custom visuals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dq9amofmxxosgw01 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.