Intern II Intern II Bradenton, FL Work Experience Intern II Interior Modeling - Bradenton, FL November 2018 to Present Working in local county government saving considerable capital by re-creating floor plans to accurate specifications then hosting meetings and presenting detailed analysis to county officials on a regular basis. Gaining new knowledge on current applications used by the Property Management and GIS team. Contract fees and money saved with this work has saved the county tens of thousands in taxpayers dollars.  • Create floor plans of current and future government locations using AutoCAD.  • Plan and research various applications for future use.  • Host meetings discussing findings and for cost saving solutions.  • Gain knowledge of the inner workings of county government. Web Developer Creative Research LLC September 2017 to November 2017 Team member of a high paced professional team of Web Developers creating and maintaining government subcontracted accounts. Work also included creating UML diagrams for various customers.  • Managed Web Pages using applications including GitHub and Slack in a team environment.  • Coding work in HTML, PHP, Laravel Framework and more.  • Created flowcharts for meetings and presentations.  • Worked on UML project with tight deadlines for professional presentation. Store Associate Follet Bookstore July 2017 to September 2017 Worked as a store associate while attending university providing outstanding customer service to students. Responsible for Inventory Management, stocking, handling money as well as management of user accounts. Successfully maintained a professional business environment. Intern Broadalbin Perth School District June 2013 to May 2014 Proudly worked with the districts IT Manager to PM preparing the district for the next school years. Implemented Education Bachelors in Computer Forensics / Information Security Keiser University April 2014 to April 2018 Associates in Information Technology Keiser University Skills Active Directory, Networking, Security, Sales, Windows 7, Technical Support, Windows, Vmware, Microsoft Office, SharePoint, PHP, HTML, Windows Server, Customer Service