Full Stack ASP.NET Web Application Developer Full Stack ASP.NET <span class="hl">Web</span> Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack ASP.NET Web Application Developer - State of California Fresno, CA • Up to 4 years of professional experience in developing Windows and Web based applications using .NET frameworks with C# as programming language.  • Extensive experience in Agile/Scrum, waterfall, Test Driven and Domain Driven developments.  • Involved in all phases of SDLC i.e. Requirement, Design, Development, Testing and Maintenance.  • Strong experience in ASP.NET applications and used many features and frameworks like ASP.NET AJAX, State Management, Validation Controls, User Controls, Custom Controls, ADO.NET.  • Expertise in .NET framework with great proficiency in creating Win Forms and Web Forms applications using ASP.NET, C#/VB.NET, ASP.NET MVC, ADO.NET, Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), JavaScript, Typescript, IIS, SQL Server 2000/2005/2008 and Visual Studio .NET.  • Experience in developing, consumption and deployment of SOAP Web Services and Web API's.  • Experience in version control tools such as Team foundation server.  • System design and development, Rapid Application Development using MVC patterns with design patterns, code review, release management.  • Expertise in creating and maintaining stored procedures, constraints, Indexes, views, triggers and UDF's.  • Experience in designing UML diagrams including Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Interaction diagrams, State diagrams and Deployment diagrams.  • Good experience in exception handling and debugging using various tools.  • Worked with Visual Basic 6.0 in developing Macro Applications.  • Strong analytical and trouble shooting skills coupled with excellent communication skills and able to work individually or in team. Work Experience Full Stack ASP.NET Web Application Developer State of California - Fresno, CA April 2017 to Present Project: Everest.  Description: Everest is an HR application, which contains different modules like Time Track, Benefits, Criminal Records, and Forms etc. The government-affiliated organizations use it to submit time sheets, to track their pay's, to create appointments for verifying their identities, create positions to authorize amounts etc.    Environment: ASP.NET MVC 5.0(Razor Engine), Visual Studio 2014/2012, SQL Server 2012, Entity Framework 5.0, Angular, LINQ, C#, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS3, HTML5, Web API, JIRA.    Responsibilities:  • Developing the application using ASP.NET MVC with Razor View engine, C#, AJAX, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Angular 2.0 and higher.  • User interface (views) design and development with HTML5 and MVC4 helper methods. Implemented Views and Partial Views. Implemented add, edit, update, delete functionality with JQuery and AJAX requests handling information in JSON and/or XML format when needed. Implemented client side validation through JavaScript, JQuery.  • View design and visual effect animation implementation with CSS3.  • Implemented UI properties like Grids, Numeric Text Box using 3rd party supporting libraries like Kendo.  • Used jQuery and AJAX to do Asynchronous calls to the server.  • Created Web APIs using ASP.NET Web API that allows new client/ Web projects.  • Write & run Test cases to follow TDD- Test Driven Development methodology.  • Used Entity Framework 5 with a Database First Approach, getting from database to model about tables or stored procedures definition. Mapped several tables and procedures with the project.  • Language-Integrated Query to EF implementation for data retrieval. Transaction management in LINQ queries for Create-Read-Update-Delete (CRUD). Created tables, stored procedures.  • Created View Models to encapsulate all models and classes used on the different views for more organized cleaner code.  • Excellent experience in developing web pages complying with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and ability to apply W3C web standards.  • JQuery validation and MVC 5.0 unobtrusive validation were used to validate form fields and provide custom requirements/error messages through C# attributes in the Model.  • Implemented WebGrid MVC with JQuery/JSON to provide more flexible, editable and sortable grid view to increase user interaction.  • Used SQL Server as database, involved in writing several SQL objects like Stored Procedures, UDFs, Views, and Triggers, and involved in designing tables.  • Web API implementation for HTTP handling within MVC project. ASP.NET Web Developer CodeEva Inc - Houston, TX February 2016 to March 2017 Project: Staffing Firm.  Description: The main objective of this application is to provide information on employment opportunities and to maintain and track applicant's information.    Environment: ASP.NET MVC 5.0(Razor Engine), Visual Studio 2015, SQL Server 2014, Entity Framework 6.0, LINQ, C#, AJAX, JSON, Javascript, JQuery, CSS3, HTML5, Web API.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using C#, ASP.NET 4.6 with MVC 5 with Razor View Engine, AJAX, HTML5, Javascript, and CSS3.  • Design User Interface with Razor Views, Partial Views and Twitter Bootstrap for Layout View.  • Created View Models to encapsulate all models and classes used on the different views for more lightweight, organized and clean code to reuse in Views.  • For making asynchronous AJAX calls in Views, jQuery Ajax implemented.  • JQuery validation and MVC 5.0 unobtrusive validation were used to validate form fields and provide custom requirements/error messages through C# attributes in the Model.  • Entity Framework 6 implementation for model part of the project with Database First Approach. Mapped several tables and stored procedures within the project.  • Created very efficient ways to centralized various data sources using Web API RESTful services.  • T-SQL query creation, implementation and optimization for reporting and database design and management.  • Implementing SOA architecture using Web API services.  • Involved in writing T-SQL Procedures, functions and Triggers using SQL Server 2008r2.  • Used Jira issue and project tracking tool, allowing the team to track any kind of unit of work. Asp.Net Developer Techno-wide Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2014 to December 2014 Project: University Recruiting Tool  Description: The main objective is to create the requisition and maintain university information, student information, job profile information, discipline, POD information. Main aim of the project is to create the requisition, which gives job profile based on discipline, area, job description.    Environment: .NET Framework 3.5, C#, ASP.NET, VB.Net, Visual Studio 2008, AngularJS, HTML, CSS, JQuery, SQL Server 2008R2, ADO.NET, SSRS, WCF Services, WinForms.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented application using C#, ASP.NET 3.5 Web Forms, ADO.NET, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, AJAX, WCF, AngularJS and User Controls.    • Used UML, WinForms and C# to design and develop the code analyzer  • Designed and implemented Interfaces and classes using OOP Structure.  • Have created and used WinForms to create functionality in networking module.  • User interface design, User Control and visual effect implementation with JQuery Framework. Animated controls with show/hide functionality.  • Involved in the designing and development of the Database. Created store procedures, triggers and views using SQL Server 2008R2.  • Created several WinForms using C#.NET, ADO.NET, SQL server, WCF, WPF.  • Leveraged AngularJS for page scripting, AJAX calls and JSON for passing objects from Controller to View and vice versa.  • Designed and Implemented WEB API CRUD operations with Filter Attributes and Route Attribute features.  • Web API implementation for HTTP handling within MVC project.  • Used ADO.NET used in Data Layer to access, modify or delete the data in SQL Server database.  • Created a WCF 3.5 Service to synchronize different applications.  • Followed N-Tier Architecture and involved in Data Access, Exception Handling, Logging and Session. Education Masters University of Denver January 2015 to August 2016 Skills .NET, VISUAL STUDIO, C#, HTML, JSON, WCF, ORM, AJAX, ASP, IIS, ASP.NET, WEB SERVER, WEB SERVICES, ADO, DBMS, ADO.NET, SQL SERVER, SQL, MVC, UI Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/LookUpRevanth