Video Editor, Manager, Moderator, Web Developer Video Editor, Manager, Moderator, <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Video Editor, Manager, Moderator, Web Developer - Ruda Tarot New York, NY Developer · Software Engineer · Web Developer  • A focused, innovative software engineer with 3+ years or experience delivering creative  solutions to complex problems trough industry standard software development processes.  • A developer with a ”never quit” attitude that has good working knowledge of software  engineering practices and tools.  • First-rate communication, and synergy capabilities. In a team of three, researched  and developed an university guideline focused on the types of human learning and how courses  could be modeled around them.  • A dedicated software engineer who is committed to developing effective solutions, col-  laborate with others, and always learn. Work Experience Video Editor, Manager, Moderator, Web Developer Ruda Tarot - Bronx, NY 2018 to Present Bronx, NY 2018 - present  YouTube Channel offering solutions for a range of issues trough spiritual healing and tarot reading.  Video Editor, Manager, Moderator, Web Developer    • Kicked started an engaging channel by assisting in the creation and branding of a public  channel responsible for helping thousands of people around the world on a daily basis.    • Energizing and engaging a community trough the creation and editing of entertaining  content and materials uploaded to the channel on a consistent routine. IT Hostos Community College - Bronx, NY 2014 to 2016 Offer solutions to technical problems in addition to maintaining University equipment, computer  software, and University user accounts.  IT    • Saved the University $3000 in 2015 by performing superior maintenance to all current  machines (Apple's, Windows, Linux/Unix, and Cameras). The money was instead used to upgrade to new Apple computers for the Game Design Department.    • Named employee of the month for 14 months in a row. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Manhattan College Research Collegiate - Bronx, NY September 2021 Skills C++, Git, Javascript, Html5, Css, Machine learning, Bash, Java, Neural network, Neural, Video Production Links http://github.com/Jeandsmith Additional Information KEY SKILLS  • C • C++ • Java  • JavaScript • Bash • HTML5  • CSS • NodeJS • Git  • GitHub • Machine Learning • Neural Network