Webmaster Webmaster Freelance Web Designer Austin, TX Since I work for the Municipal Government, please email me for interview request. I am available 12pm - 1pm and after 5PM for interviews - phone only.    Due to the overwhelming spam calls, phone number is available upon request. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Webmaster CITY OF BROWNSVILLE - Brownsville, TX October 2018 to Present • Works with internal clients and subject matter experts to create and update compelling content for the City's websites and ensure adherence with branding guidelines.  • Establishes and maintains a content review schedule, conducts trainings for web content editors as necessary, and helps manage activities in order to increase organic search rankings.  • Understands internal goals and marketing plans and work with them to research, develop, and write appropriate and engaging content for their websites.  • Develops and implements an ongoing review plan for web content accuracy and standards.  • Conducts a variety of research for web projects and provides analysis and recommendations as necessary.  • Participates in ongoing implementation of SEO recommendations and works to ensure SEO best practices are properly implemented.  • Performs ongoing keyword discovery, expansion and optimization, and uses results to optimize copy and landing pages in order to drive visitors to University websites/landing pages.  • Updates the website with approved content as necessary via the content management system (CMS), HTML, and JS.  • Implements ongoing web accessibility updates to ensure website compliance with accessibility standards.  • Develops strong working relationships with team members, internal clients, and departments throughout the city.  • Coordinates multiple tasks and projects simultaneously, driving follow-up and awareness of deadlines both within marketing team and with the city.  • Builds and maintains assigned relationships, keeps informed on project status and additional requirements, and provides information on new or enhanced services.  • Performs other special projects and duties as assigned.  • Maintain various city websites hosting on private servers, Squarespace, Wix and some utilizing Wordpress / Drupal Webmaster/ Web Developer Fishing's Future - Remote - South Padre Island, TX December 2017 to Present Key contributor in initiatives to innovate the Fishing's Future platform. Shape the direction with forward-thinking design and front- end technology to create a unique, ownable and high-converting web presence for Fishing's Future.     • Build and extend the front- end of Fishing's Future web applications   • Gsuite and Google Non-Profits implementation and management  • Manage Cloud Hosting Infrastructure via Pantheon.io  • Consolidate feedback and deliver products that test assumptions and drives innovation   • Update and maintain all company websites as well as development of any new website  • Create site layout/user interface by using standard HTML/CSS practices / WordPress  • Provide weekly and monthly updates to team on progress, performance, metrics and milestones  • Currently managing their Google Adwords campaign with an ad spend of 10K per month.  • Currently serving on their Advisory Board as their Web Developer  • Fishing's Future is a Non Profit Webmaster/ Web Developer Property Owners Who Care - Remote - South Padre Island, TX May 2017 to Present Created the new membership website for Property Owners Who Care and implemented it on cloud based infrastructure via WPengine due to performance issues with web hosting. Mitigated performance vulnerabilities within the development environment by performing user experience testing using cross platform and browser solutions .    • Enhanced the user experience with development of easy to use functions, tools, features and reports while designing a custom theme using DIVI and a private install of WordPress.  • Tracked recurring issues to drive resolutions at the root-cause level with continuous improvement of membership platform.  • Managing WordPress Cloud Hosting Infrastructure via WPEngine  • Currently managing their website platform remotely and provide IT services for office  • Gsuite administration  • Non Profit Membership Website Web Designer/ Developer Town Press Media - Remote March 2015 to Present We’re a results-driven digital marketing agency located in Austin, Texas and South Padre Island, Texas serving clients nationally. Driven by the success of our clients, we take great pride in the online strategies we implement to drive website traffic, convert visitors into leads and improve sales.    • Owner Web Designer/ Developer Live Life Restored - Contract September 2018 to November 2018 Website development for a Ketamine Clinic and Medspa. Education Bachelor's Skills Customer Service (10+ years), Customer Relations (10+ years), Customer Relationship Management (10+ years), Management (10+ years), Manager (10+ years), Employee Relations (10+ years), Employee Training (10+ years), Social Media Marketing (10+ years), Google Analytics (7 years), Google Adwords (7 years), SEO (10+ years), SEM (7 years), PPC (6 years), IT Management (7 years), CSS, HTML 5, DIVI (4 years), Wordpress, Front End, IT Management (3 years), Digital Marketing, Photoshop, Social Media Management, Graphic Design, Marketing, HTML, Advertising, Front-End, Bootstrap, HTML5, Adobe, Web Design, Supervisor (10+ years), PHP, CPanel (10+ years), Javascript, Marketing Links https://townpressmedia.com https://fishingsfuture.org https://powc-spi.org Certifications/Licenses Pharmacy Technician Texas State Board of Pharmacy Pharmacy Technician FEMA October 2018 to Present ICS 100, Introduction to the Incident Command System, introduces the Incident Command System (ICS) and provides the foundation for higher level ICS training. This course describes the history, features and principles, and organizational structure of the Incident Command System. It also explains the relationship between ICS and the National Incident Management System (NIMS).     • Explain the principles and basic structure of the Incident Command System (ICS).  • Describe the NIMS management characteristics that are the foundation of the ICS.  • Describe the ICS functional areas and the roles of the Incident Commander and Command Staff.  • Describe the General Staff roles within ICS.  • Identify how NIMS management characteristics apply to ICS for a variety of roles and discipline areas. FEMA October 2018 to Present IS200, Basic Incident Command System for Initial Response, reviews the Incident Command System (ICS), provides the context for ICS within initial response, and supports higher level ICS training. This course provides training on, and resources for, personnel who are likely to assume a supervisory position within ICS.     • Describe how the NIMS Management Characteristics relate to Incident Command and Unified Command.  • Describe the delegation of authority process, implementing authorities, management by objectives, and preparedness plans and objectives.  • Identify ICS organizational components, the Command Staff, the General Staff, and ICS tools.  • Describe different types of briefings and meetings.  • Explain flexibility within the standard ICS organizational structure.  • Explain transfer of command briefings and procedures.  • Use ICS to manage an incident or event. Additional Information Since I work for the Municipal Government, please email me for interview request. I am available 12pm - 1pm and after 5PM for interviews - phone only.    Due to the overwhelming spam calls, phone number is available upon request.