Python/Django Developer Python/Django <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python/Django Developer - GS1 Global Titusville, NJ • 3+ years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various business application systems.  • Experience in object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django, and Linux.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Vue.js.  • Experienced in using MVC architecture using RESTful, Soap Web services and SoapUI and high-level Python Web frameworks like Django.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on SQL Server.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Familiarity with HDFS, Big Data, Hive, Oozie, Sqoop, Talend, Flume performing data ingestions over huge datasets for different sources and querying these datasets for analysis purposes.  • Worked on projects designed with agile and waterfall methodologies, high-quality deliverables delivered on time.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Experienced in developing UNIX shell scripts and bash scripting.  • Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills and a highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently.  • Hands on experience with bug tracking tools JIRA.  • Skilled in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design, documents, quality analysis and audits. Work Experience Python/Django Developer GS1 Global - Ewing, NJ January 2019 to Present GS1 is a not-for-profit organization that develops and maintains global standards for business communication. The best known of these standards is the barcode, a symbol printed on products that can be scanned electronically. GS1 barcodes are scanned more than six billion times every day. GS1 has 112 local member organizations and 1.5 million user companies.    Project: Activate- This is a service offered by GS1 to make it easy for user to put a barcode on their products. Whether user is selling in retail or in other sectors, activate provides all needs for user to be able to generate product specific barcode with world class standards and be able to list their products very quickly. And the faster user lists their product, the more they can sell their product.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing entire frontend & backend modules using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Jinja, Python, Django Web Framework and PostgreSQL Database  • Implemented Python views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and Jinja templating language to create a user-friendly website interface  • Worked over creating multiple Model classes Using Django Models to create Schema in PostgreSQL  • Developed multiple Python REST API using Django, Rest framework and PostgreSQL for database  • Developed Python classes and serializers using external image processing libraries like ImageMagick for user to be able to generate product barcodes instantly  • Modify existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Written Python scripts to parse Excel, CSV documents using pyexcel and load the data in database  • Responsible for writing different Unit Test cases using Python packages like unittest, pytest  • Conduct a complete initial sanity testing, create documents of test reports  • Responsible for containerizing using Docker and work with support team to Deploy the application using Azure Cloud Kubernetes into DEV, Staging, UAT and PROD  • Develop application using Agile Methodologies, participate in daily standup calls and deliver the work in biweekly sprint basis  • Actively use Ticking tools like Jira to track over work progress and Bugs reporting  • Responsible to maintain code repositories, source code versions using version control systems like GIT and GitHub  • Work Actively in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle  • Responsible for creating technical documentations for the code base which is being developed  • Work closely with Business to understand the functional requirements to be able to implement application business logic on server side using Python and Django framework  • Ability to use different Python friendly IDE's like PyCharm, Anaconda, Atom and Jupyter Notebook to debug, test and develop python programming in a very quick and efficient manner.    Environment: Python 3.6, Django 2.0, PostgreSQL, pyexcel, unittest, pytest pymssql, py-postgresql, REST Framework, Pipenv, ImageMagick, HTML5, JSON, Docker, JIRA, Bootstrap, Git, GitHub, PyCharm, Jupyter Notebook, Atom, Anaconda. Python/ Django Developer Citigroup - Township of Warren, NJ June 2018 to January 2019 Citigroup is an American multinational investment bank and financial services corporation headquartered in New York City.  Team: The Cyber Security Fusion Center (CSFC) Core Team is responsible for analyzing cyber threat information designed to increase Citi's cyber threat awareness and protection levels. The CSFC Core Team protects the Citi brand, global business operations, technology infrastructure and client trust against cyber threats worldwide.  Project: Workflow Event Management System (WEMS) -In Support to CSFC mission, The Product and technology team (GFTS) is responsible for building custom queries, developing and deploying various applications under WEMS Project for their analysis and research purposes.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing, Testing, deploying applications and automating scripts in a Rapid Application Development (RAD) Lifecycle.  • Built multiple analytics dashboards for IP Security to visualize data using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Python, Django Framework and SQL Server.  • Developed Automated applications with Python for data extraction from multiple sources.  • Developed applications using Python ecosystem packages like NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib and Jupyter Notebook.  • Performed data cleaning, analysis/munging and visualization of large dataset with NumPy, pandas, and Matplotlib and Jupyter notebook.  • Working Experience with Hadoop, HDFS clusters, Big Data and whole stack of technologies.  • Knowledge over various Big Data ingestion methods like Talend, Sqoop, Flume, Kafka and Scripts.  • Familiarity with Big Data querying Tools like Hive and Oozie for scheduling.  • Ability to develop in Python, SQL, JavaScript, and shell scripts across a variety of environments.  • Proficient in analyzing Business & Functional requirement specifications.  • Writing Unit testing and helping to test whole web application functionality.  • Experience with source control system GIT, Bitbucket and TFS.  • Extensive experience in Linux/UNIX commands, BASH Shell scripting  • Excellent interpersonal and communication skills, and is experienced in working with senior level managers, business people and developers across multiple disciplines.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, Python3.4/2.7, Django, Flask, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, SQL server 2012, SQL Server Management Studio, Anaconda, PyCharm, Visual Studio, Jupyter Notebook, TFS, GIT, Bitbucket, Hadoop, HDFS, Big Data, Talend, Sqoop, Flume, Kafka, Hive, Oozie. Python Web Developer BBVA Compass June 2017 to May 2018 is a leading U.S. banking franchise with operations throughout the Sunbelt Region, working to enhance their long-term financial stability through superior investment performance and advice.    Project-2: Investment Data Research (IRS) is an application for managing, maintain and updating security information for research and investment. Built the User interface to request the data and check the availability of the data, And Data usage statistics for cost rationalization process.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in data analysis using python and handling the ad-hoc requests as per requirements.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using python/Django web frame work on SQL Server.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Involve in the development of the application using Python 3.3, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and jQuery.  • Used JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, CSS3, and HTML5 as data and presentation layer technology.  • Built application logic using Python 3.4/2.7. Used Django APIs for database access. Use the Model View Controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications.  • Handled potential points of failure (database, communication points and file system errors) through error handling and communication of failure.  • Worked on Restful API's to access the third-party for the internal analysis and statistical representation of data.  • Managed, collaborated and coordinated the work of an offshore development team.  • Worked on development of internal testing tool framework written in Python.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script and React.  • Logged user stories and acceptance criteria in JIRA for features by evaluating output requirements and formats.  • Involved in Agile process, Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the application.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, Python3.4/2.7, Django, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, CSS, SQL server 2012, SQL Server Management Studio, PyCharm, Eclipse, Visual Studio. Python Web Developer BBVA Compass - Birmingham, AL June 2016 to May 2018 Jr. Web Developer BBVA Compass June 2016 to May 2017 Built internal admin applications and external client facing applications to support all the client related operations.  Responsibilities:  • Design and implemented an AngularJS web application base on existing ASP.NET web application.  • Used Dependency Injection for services, directives, controllers for testing purpose and loosely coupled design.  • Actively involved in designing the database and tables including stored procedures.  • Implemented the routing using Angular UI-Route  • Used AngularJS local storage to store data and prevent losing data after refresh.  • Designed and developed the application to be responsive for desktop, mobile and tablets using Bootstrap.  • Developed Business logic layer by implementing Object Oriented Programming languages (OOPS) concepts abstraction, encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism in C#.  • Used MVC Design Pattern to develop classes to have clear separation of responsibilities of all the actions.  • Designed and developed user interfaces using ASP, JavaScript and HTML 5.  • Have followed the Scrum Agile Methodology in the development of the project.  • Knowledge in Jira ticketing tool to track the issues development progress and project tracking.    Environment: ASP.Net, .Net Framework 4.5, C#, 4.0, SQL Server 2012, Web Services, Visual Studio 2013, jQuery, HTML5, WCF, TFS, OOPS, HTML, MVC and CSS. Web Developer Intern Tek9 Solutions - AL May 2015 to September 2015 Developed online employment application and applicant tracking system, including database design, graphic design, reporting, and SSL and email notification aspects.  Responsibilities:  • Built web applications with MVC5, Designed and developed application using C# as code behind.  • Successfully developed web forms in ASP.NET using C# language.  • Developed web applications using ASP.NET MVC framework.  • Created Stored Procedures, Views, Functions, developing interfaces to read external files.  • Created Sub-Queries and Joins for complex queries involving multiple tables and Exception Handlers.  • Collaborated with senior developers to understand the existing code and maintenance.  • Research new web technologies, including software and hardware development.  • Identify current Internet browsers and website requirements and participate in planning and execution of projects by organizing and coordinating work assignments to achieve deadlines.  • Worked in Agile development environment with Scrum methodologies.  • Knowledge in Jira ticketing tool to track the issues development progress.  • Writing Unit testing and helping to test whole web application functionality.    Environment: ASP.Net, C#, AngularJS, HTML5, SQL server 2008, .Net Framework 4/3.5, Core Java, SQL Server Management Studio, Visual Studio Education Bachelor in Computer Science University of Massachusetts Lowell - Lowell, MA Skills .NET (2 years), MS SQL SERVER (2 years), SQL (2 years), SQL SERVER (2 years), VISUAL STUDIO (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages Python 3.6, Python 2.7  Web Technologies CSS, HTML, java Script  Databases SQL Server, HDFS, PostgreSQL  Operating System Windows, Linux, macOS  Frameworks Django  Packages pyexcel, unittest, pytest, pymssql, py-postgresql, RESTFramework,  Pipenv, ImageMagick  Tools PyCharm, Anaconda, TFS, GIT, SVN, GitHub, Bitbucket, JIRA, Visual Studio, Talend, Flume, Oozie, Hive, Cloudera Manager, SQOOP