Manufacturing Technician III Manufacturing Technician III Manufacturing Technician III - Varian Medical Systems Charlottesville, VA Former technology professional with a mix of professional and entrepreneurial experience in the tech sector and a degree in Computer Science. Quick learner with deep intellectual curiosity dedicated to continuous learning and self-study. Comprehensive knowledge of programming languages including Java, JavaScript, PHP, HTML/CSS, Joomla, and SQL. Experienced with troubleshooting software and hardware issues for Windows, Mac, iOS, and Android-based systems. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Manufacturing Technician III Varian Medical Systems - Charlottesville, VA November 2018 to Present VMS is a leading provider of oncology equipment for medical facilities.  ? Processed desktops, workstations, and servers by loading company images, running a series of tests to verify functionality, completing summary reports, serializing machines for traceability, and recording tracking data in SAP.  ? Collaborated with engineers on installing a new production line with regorganized workspaces, equipment updates, and streamlined processes that resulted in doubled production for three quarters and a new monthly production record in June 2019. Promoted from Level 1 to Level 3 in July 2019.  ? Scheduled and prioritized high order volumes and maintained backlog.  ? Wrote scripts for data analysis in Visual Basic and used Excel Online to present data in a convenient way.  ? Worked with IT department on changing communication work processes within and between departments.  ? Documented work processes in SAP. Owner/Operator Cville Tech Repair - Charlottesville, VA October 2017 to May 2018 Cville Tech Repair provided troubleshooting and repair services for hardware, software, and mobile devices.  ? Interacted with clients to determine issues, articulate potential solutions, and provide estimates for repairs and service delivery.  ? Established a bookkeeping system to manage finances with QuickBooks and Microsoft Office.  ? Negotiated with vendors to secure supply inventory.  ? Designed and built website and promoted site using Google Adwords, Yelp, and Facebook. Web Developer iConnect - St. Petersburg, RU February 2013 to October 2015 iConnect was a small company that built and promoted websites.  ? Built, maintained, and enhanced websites using PHP, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Managed websites with CMS tools Joomla and WordPress.  ? Optimized site SEO, performed keyword research, and oversaw advertising and promotional campaigns. Education BS in Computer Science Saint-Petersburg Engineering School of Electronics - Saint-Petersburg, RU Skills Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Php, Xml, Sql, Css, Java, jquery, Wordpress Links http://github.com/andreicville Certifications/Licenses Foundation Level Certificate, American Software Testing Qualifications Board September 2018 to Present JavaScript Algorithms and Data Structures, FreeCodeCamp Certification August 2018 to Present ISTQB - Agile Tester (CTFL-AT) June 2019 to Present Additional Information SKILLS  HTML, CSS, SQL, JavaScript, jQuery, XML, Bootstrap, Java, PHP, WordPress, Joomla