Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - 7 Generation Games Whittier, CA Analytical and solutions-focused candidate, seeking to leverage solid research, data analysis and problem solving skills within a challenging and progressive position. Knowledge of web development languages, concepts, and applications. Driven by new challenges and the desire to be successful in all endeavors. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer 7 Generation Games April 2015 to Present • Provide maintenance for company website and educational summer site.  • Currently creating and refactoring JavaScript based educational video game content.  • Testing and updating functionality of front-end code for previously released games. Web Developer Office Ally, Inc. May 2015 to December 2015 • Created a new layout for the company website on Drupal.  • Created a Redis data structure server to cache the most frequently used procedures.  • Designed a Windows Service Application to monitor errant directories.  • Worked with Highcharts API to create an interactive accounting dashboard. Full Stack ASP.Net MVC Web Developer Votehub - Sabio Enterprises November 2014 to April 2015 www.votehub.azurewebsites.net  • Worked with a team of developers to create a political website with an advanced User Interface.  • Utilized JavaScript, SQL, Bootstrap, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, C# in building a responsive web application.  • Incorporated Google Maps API, Attribute Routing, Amazon Web Services, Angular.js.  • Streamlined progress of project using MVC5 with Agile development practices and Trello implementation.  • Leveraged ASP.NET, .Net4.5, WebApi 2.0, TFS, AJAX, and JSON code. Education Bachelor of Science in Geological Science University of California Santa Barbara - Santa Barbara, CA June 2013 Additional Information Technical Skills    • HTML5  • CSS3  • JavaScript  • jQuery  • SQL  • AngularJS  • C#  • XML  • Visual Basic  • ASP.Net MVC 5.x  • ASP.Net Web Forms 4.x  • Content Management Systems  • Windows Service Applications  • Visual Studio 2008-15  • MySQL Server 2005-14  • Redis  • Adobe Photoshop  • Microsoft Office