Digital Marketer Digital Marketer Digital Marketer focusing on Web Development, Email Automation, and Performance Analysis Lodi, CA I am a highly motivated and competent individual in many areas of Marketing. I have also spent much of my time in front of people either leading groups, projects or presenting information to an audience. I am a leader among leaders who takes initiative and works hard to create positive results and impacts on those around me and the company I work for. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Digital Marketer Rada Cutlery - Waverly, IA August 2017 to Present 1. Supported online and automated marketing efforts including creating website pages, Drip implementation, developing email flows as well as Facebook / Ad Words    2. Ran a major re-organization and design campaign on the company's WordPress website using the Divi Theme.    3. Established a thorough understanding of the online platforms and analytics to guide marketing efforts, including Google Analytics, Shopify, WordPress, Social Media channels and more.    4. Utilized the Adobe Suite as the Videographer/Editor of visual content used for paid and organic marketing campaigns.    5. Developed marketing techniques to cross promote and build links across all facets of the businesses program. Marketing Specialist Spool Machine - Remote January 2019 to June 2019 1. Utilized the Adobe Suite for creating logos, icons, and editing product photography and demonstration videos.    2. Selected brand colors, brand messaging, email content/templates, and website copy using market research of their competitive landscape    3. Designed a website with the Divi WordPress theme to successfully convert inquirers to customers. (?$12,000 in products sold in the first month after going live)    4. Was the creative director, videographer, and photographer - planning and executing a photoshoot and product demo to provide visual content for the website    5. Set up email automation to inform, qualify, and maintain leads    6. Created various print media for their sales purposes such as sales flyers, product specifications sheet, and vinyl graphics for their products    7. Work Visible At: https://spoolmachine.com/ Web Developer Crossroads Mfg. - Remote January 2019 to May 2019 1. Reproduced a website on WordPress originally hosted on Wix    2. Oversaw the domain transfer to ensure no loss of site availability    3. Developed an email automation flow to develop a stronger prospective customer base    4. Clarified the brand message to give more clarity to new visitors to the site    5. Website: http://crossroadsmfg.com Education Bachelor's in Marketing University of Northern Iowa - Cedar Falls, IA August 2015 to December 2018 Skills HTML (2 years), Marketing, Google Analytics (3 years), Social Media Management (3 years), Social Media Marketing (2 years), SEO (3 years), CSS (2 years), Ruby (Less than 1 year), Wordpress (3 years), Shopify (2 years), Divi (2 years), Adobe Creative Suite (2 years), Digital Marketing (2 years)