Web Applications Developer, Intern <span class="hl">Web</span> Applications <span class="hl">Developer</span>, Intern Web Applications Developer, Intern Providence, RI Work Experience Web Applications Developer, Intern Johnson & Wales University - Providence, RI January 2019 to April 2019 • Assisted the Web Applications team to design, build and maintain the existing websites and SPAs and create plugins by using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and AngularJS for frontend and python (flask) for the backend functionality on a AWS based cloud server (EC2 + S3 + DynamoDB).  • Created APIs in MuleSoft in order to integrate the data flow from various applications. Technical Support Assistant Johnson & Wales University - Providence, RI November 2017 to April 2019 • Identified hardware, software and network related issues, provided assistance for troubleshooting and diagnosing the issue.  • Creating tickets for follow-up and documentation of the problem and reporting to supervisor in case of persisting problem to ensure the clients satisfaction in a timely and accurate manner.  • Testing and evaluating new technologies before rolling it out to the general users. Full Stack Web Developer, Intern Selenium Solutions P. Ltd - Kathmandu, NP April 2015 to September 2015 • Designed responsive, cross-platform UI for websites and developed frontend and backend website application.  • Designed and developed Nepacall.com, an online directory service, developed on a LAMP stack. Web Designer Freelancer Unit Pvt. Ltd - Kathmandu, NP January 2013 to March 2015 • Conceptualized creative ideas with clients and created website mockups and prototypes as per the client's requirement  • Designed responsive, interactive and cross-platform webpage using HTML, CSS and JavaScript as per the client's interaction. Education Master of Business Administration in management and current information technology Johnson And Wales University - Providence, RI June 2017 to May 2019 Bachelor of Information Management in mathematics Tribhuwan University - Kathmandu, NP November 2011 to September 2015 Skills Javascript, Angular Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/cs4xqqu0m0qr9eca Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.