Application developer Application <span class="hl">developer</span> Application developer - Wholesale Websites Lancaster, CA Work Experience Application developer Wholesale Websites January 2019 to Present for web service platform created to accommodate wholesale clients. Desk support for company as well as Spanish translator. Web/ Developer Sweetie's Sweet Shop April 2018 to Present Graphic Design, Application Software Development, Desk Support  Application Software update, debug, and patch to fit the owner's needs to include a new business, new employees, new system, new rules/privileges of said  employees, HR and payroll. Keeping custom program up to date to current standards by writing scripts and rewriting code. Development of website. Design of logo and in store graphics. System setup for QuickBooks POS and hardware. Network setup for computer and complementary devices for store into current  building's network. Inventory maintenance in POS. Educating employees about POS usage. Desk Support for employees. IT/Graphic Design/ Web development/ Developer Heroes February 2017 to Present Management of social media, web development of store's website, produce any graphic design needed for the store such as ads, cards, or store decorations.  Keeping the custom programs up to date and maintained by writing scripts or rewriting code. IT Specialist State Farm - Compu Comp January 2019 to June 2019 01/2019-06/2019  IT  State Farm project under Compu Comp (Project brand under State Farm) to update software and hardware to State Farm offices all over the United State (I'm  an agent mainly for California locations). Project includes UPS battery replaces, Dell PC replacement, OS update from Windows 7 to 10, safely backing up and loading user's files as well as setting up their State Farm cloud among other programs used by State Farm agents and staff. Provide Desk support for the office  I'm visiting as well as training for office staff on the new software, applications, and hardware. IT, Web Developer, Graphic Design, Marketing LALA Trends February 2017 to December 2018 Social Media Manager  Design of website, templates, banners, logos, image retouch, marketing, newsletters, and social media management. Database backups and maintenance. IT, Web Developer, Graphic Design, Desk Support Be Wicked February 2017 to December 2018 Design of website, templates, banners, logos, newsletters, and image retouch. Maintenance of in-house server and online server. Software installation and troubleshooting on computers. Educating employees on how to use company's software. Database backups and maintenance. Software installation,  maintenance, and migration for inventory, shipping, and HR. Set up and maintenance of software, FTP accounts, and data management for drop shipping  services offered by company to clients. Desk Support for company's clients. Web Developer Primal Nectar January 2018 to June 2018 Website development including scripts to fit client's needs such as contact forms, file submissions, and mailing. Graphic Designer Giraffe Builder February 2017 to April 2017 Designed websites, templates, banners, logos, and mockups. Education Bachelor of Computer Information Technology in (CIT) - Domain California State University 2016 Skills HTML, Javascript, Jquery, Sql Server, XML, Linux, SQL, Programming languages: Java, Assembly, CSS, HTML, PHP, JavaScript, JQuery, Linux, Python, VB, VBA, SQL, Ruby, Peal, Bash, Shell, Liquid, Scripts, and XML. (6 years), Web Platforms: WordPress, Prestashop, Shopify, Magento, Wordpress, Joomla (4 years), Microsoft Office Suite (Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Visio, Access, and Project) (8 years), Google services: Google Drive, Google Slides, Google Docs, Google Sheets, Trilingual: Spanish, English, and mild conversational Japanese, Enterprise Resource Planning implementation and project management experience: SAP and Oracle, Proficient in Network Implementation and OS installation, UI and GUI skills (HCI), Photoshop, Illustrator, Corel Draw, InDesign.