Sr Software Engineer Sr Software Engineer Sr Software Engineer - Fugetron Consulting Los Angeles, CA • Around 4 years of experience in the field of Web Applications development, using HTML 4/5, CSS (2/3), XHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML, JSON, Bootstrap and AngularJS.  • Experience in Responsive Web Design using Bootstrap and media query.  • Worked extensively in Designing, coding, testing, implementing for projects.  • Experience in Debugging and troubleshooting existing code.  • Develop Single Page Application (SPA) using Angular JS  • Experience in AWS Sdk.  • Experience in Unit Testing (Jasmine, karma).  • Keen knowledge on MVC Architecture of Angular JS like models, controllers, and building out custom directives; isolate scope and also working with dependency injection.  • Keen knowledge with modern framework such as React.js, Node.js, JQuery, Backbone.js and AngularJS.  • Experience in creating Web services using ASP.net web services.  • Experience in working MVC Architecture and also in using version control(SVN).  • Experience on CSS preprocessor like SASS and LESS.  • Experience in Client side language such as JavaScript, and JQuery W3C Standards.  • Experience applying the most recent advancement methodologies incorporating MVC in the program, occasion driven applications utilizing AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON, JSONP, and XML. Work Experience Sr Software Engineer Fugetron Consulting - Los Angeles, CA April 2019 to Present At Fugetron we help companies leverage technology to create a competitive advantage by improving efficiency, cutting costs, increasing profitability and facilitating growth. It is our mission to become the preferred provider of the best user and business collaboration experience, regardless of domain or location.    • Developed front-end application and components using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery for the login and management module.  • Consumed REST web service for fetching JSON format data from web server.  • Involved AJAX calls for data updates in UI along with JSON data parsing.  • Used Bootstrap and Media queries to make responsive web pages  • Involved JWT token and Guards to prevent unauthenticated users from accessing restricted routes and to realize user authentication.  • Deployed and host the application on Amazon web service (AWS).  • Using AWS web Service Cogito for user Authentication, and Registration.  • Using AWS web Service S3 for object storage and API gateway for API Deployment  • Used Bitbucket for project version control.  • Extensively used JavaScript and jQuery programming to give AJAX functionality for the website  • Participated in daily scrum calls and involved in story writing and estimation meetings.  • Utilize strong UI skills and understanding of digital design concepts to contribute to user experience improvements  • Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using client side scripting using JavaScript  • Iterative design process upon client approval build out of all assets: buttons, products shots, UI components.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.  • Manage task effectively and prioritize accordingly  • Work effectively within collaborative team to identify and resolve issues  • Ensure adherence to architecture standards, risk management and security policies  • Communicate effectively and clearly  • Participates in design reviews and provide input to design recommendations    Environment: HTML, HTML5, XHTML, CSS, Ajax, jQuery, JavaScript, AngularJS, AWS , CSS3 ,Microsoft Visual Studio 2015, ,Bootstrap, Bitbucket,TFS,Gulps Web Developer Skotia Consulting - Chicago, IL September 2017 to January 2019 PRS Project is patients registration system allows the patients to register to the clink using mobile application while he is within certain distance from the clink location. Hence, the time needed for the wait will be minimized.    • Gather the requirement from the stack holders and the project mangers.  • Build the REST API using Node Js, Mongo DB and Express framework.  • Secure the REST API by applying JWT (Json Web Token)  • Build the push back notification using Socket IO.  • Build the required models class using Javascript and Node JS.  • Create the SWAGGER Document, which describe the REST API and its end points.  • Create Docker Image To deploy the REST API to different Environments  • Build The clink admin web site using React JS.  • Create Real time dashboard that shows order list of the patients who is register based on the time using Socket IO Client.  • -Create the mobile application for both IOS and Android using React Native.  Environments: MongoDB, Node JS, Express, REST, JWT, Nginx, Swagger, Swagger UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Docker, React JS, React Native, IOS, Android. Angular UI Developer Ernst & Young - Alpharetta, GA July 2016 to June 2017 EY is a multinational professional services firm headquartered in London, United Kingdom. EY is one of the largest professional services firm in the world and is one of the "Big Four" accounting firms.    • Creating web page using HTML4/5, XHTML, CSS2/3, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, Bootstrap, and AngularJS.  • Participated in daily scrum calls and involved in story writing and estimation meetings.  • Working with AngularJS to write custom directives for DOM Manipulation.  • Implementation of Responsive Web Design technique using Bootstrap  • Implement AngularJS event handler and UI-Router 3rd party routing module  • Utilize strong UI skills and understanding of digital design concepts to contribute to user experience improvements  • Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using client side scripting using JavaScript  • Follow TFS for project management.  • Iterative design process upon client approval build out of all assets: buttons, products shots, UI components.  • Designed and implemented a dynamic image rendering web service which is consumed by JSP, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.    Environment: HTML, HTML5, XHTML, CSS, Ajax, jQuery, JavaScript, AngularJS, CS3 ,C# ,Microsoft Visual Studio 2015, SQL Server 2012,Bootstrap,TFS,Gulps UI Developer LetsPeer June 2015 to July 2016 Letspeer is unique social network allow the register user to share information between each other using their different language. Moreover, it give them the ability to make friend ship relation with each other.    • Responsible for all the overall layout design ,color scheme for the website using HTML4/5, XHTML, CSS2/3.  • Gather Requirement from the project manager to specify the look and feel of each screen.  • Work side by side with the backend developer to specify the format and the structure of the JSON data need to be send from the REST services to the client in order to create screens.  • Design the required screens using Bootstrap, HTML5, and CSS3.  • Retrieve JSON data from the different REST services using Jquery.  • Create the forms that enable the user to login, and register using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, REST ,and Jquery.  • Create the forms that enable the users to upload images, videos, or posting articles using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, REST API , and Jquer.  • Create user profile page using Bootstrap, CSS3, HTML5, JSP, JQuery, and font awesome.  • Implementation of Responsive Web Design technique using Bootstrap  • Use the flowplayer to get the video streaming from Apache HTTP server.  • Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML and CSS.  • Represent the environment for the new system using suitable component diagrams.  • Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML, HTML 5, XHTML, and CSS3 based on the W3C standards.  • Designed and implemented a dynamic image rendering web service which is consumed by JSP, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using client side scripting using JavaScript    Environment: HTML, HTML5, XHTML, CSS, Ajax, JQuery, JavaScript, JSP, Apache HTTP, Tomcat7,Adobe Photoshop CS3, Bootstrap.    Silicon Valley for Electronic Solution, Jordan June2012 - Apr 2013  Silicon valley serve all over the kingdom of Jordan since 1982, for many companies in different kind of business as total solution    • Collect the requirement from the management, and the users.  • Create system development lifecycle (SDLC) document describe design, implementation, and testing of the application.  • Create development documents based on agile methodology.  • Represent the environment for the new system using suitable component diagrams.  • Using eclipse UML diagrams to create the database, users, and class diagrams.  • Responsible for creating efficient, dynamic, reusable and interactive screens using HTML,CSS, JavaScript, and AJAX.  • Implement the database using MSSQL server 2008.  • Creating different screen for the solution using HTML, ASP.net, and jQuery.  • Employ the rest URL using ASP.net MVC.  • Integrate each View with the backend using Ajax pattern and jQuery.  • Create chart that shows company sales during the year.  • Deploy the application to IIS Server in the production environment.  • Write the user manual for the new feature added to the systems.  • Do after sale support for the application in the client side.    Environment: JavaScript, HTML, jQuery, Microsoft Visual Studio, SQL Server.    TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Web Technologies: include HTML4.01/5, XHTML, CSS2/CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, DOM, AJAX, JSON, ANGULAR JS, BOOTSTRAP, RESPONSIVE WEB DESIGN  • C#: include Windows programming, ASP.net, Windows Services, ADO.net, Xml web services, WCF services, win forms, Reporting, and Analysis services  • VB.Net: include Windows programming, ASP.net, Windows Services, ADO.net, Xml web services, WCF services , and win forms.  • Operating System: Include Windows NT, Windows 2000, Windows XP , Win 7, Mac OS X  • Developer Tools: Include Eclipse IDE, Sublime  • Browser: Include IE, Firefox, Safari, Opera, Chrome  • Web Servers: Include, HTTP Web Server and Apache Tomcat  • Design Pattern: Include MVC, Server-Client, Agile, Factory, Singleton, and Event  • Analysis tools: Include MS Visio, and Rational Rose.  • Oracle10g: Include Tables, Views, Functions, Stored Procedures, PL/SQL, and Triggers.  • SQLServer2000/2005/2008: Include Tables, Views, Functions, Stored Procedures, TSQL, Triggers, Reporting, and Analysis Services.  • MYSQL: include Tables, Views, Functions, Stored Procedures, and Triggers.  • HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, Flash Action Scrip, and AJAX Education Master in Computer Information System in Computer Information System California University Of Management And Science - Anaheim, CA March 2015 Skills Confident, Git, Javascript, MYSQL Additional Information ORGANIZATIONAL SKILLS  • Management communication.  • Ability to work well with co-workers and public  • Confident, conscientious, easygoing, diligent