Web Application Developer Intern (Angular7/.NET Web API) <span class="hl">Web</span> Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Intern (Angular7/.NET <span class="hl">Web</span> API) QA/BA Novi, MI ? Proficient in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  ? Strong analytical, QA/testing skills  ? Hands on experience on various Banking projects in Cashiering and Teller applications  ? Implemented QA methodologies, practices and processes in web based, client server and mainframe environment  ? Mainframe testing skills includes modifying the JCLs and executing the JCLs for validating the data in DB2 tables  ? Testing and Validation of data mining models  ? Data validation in DB2 tables using SQL  ? Change management using Quality Center  ? Well known of various Manual Testing procedures. Knowledge on some Automation tools  ? Extensive experience in implementing QA methodologies and Software Engineering Process, Test Plans, Test cases, Test Scenarios, and Documentation  ? Expertise in participating actively in the meetings and teleconferences with Development team, QA team members and Managers  ? Well versed on Agile and V models of SDLC  ? Experienced in both White and Black box testing  ? Committed team player, self-starter, capable of working independently.  ? Preformed multiple tasks, responsible for White Box testing, Black Box testing, Functionality testing, Regression Testing, UI Testing, Database testing, Concurrency testing, Positive and Negative testing  ? Defect tracking and reporting  ? Strong aptitude in implementing Quality assurance standards and testing methodologies using Use Case documents, Functional Specifications and Business requirements  ? Web Application .NET Developer with experience in front - end and back-end development including web application design, implementation of object-oriented principles, software design patterns, MVC, n-tier architecture, relational database design  ? In-depth knowledge of front-end Single Page Application (SPA) development using Angular7  ? Experience of Object relation mapping using ADO.NET, Entity Framework  ? Knowledge of creating SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) packages  ? Experience with using Version Control systems such as GitHub, TFS (Team Foundation Server)  ? Proficiency in interacting with clients and understanding and translating requirements to technical specifications  ? Excellent communication, planning and time management skills Work Experience Web Application Developer Intern (Angular7/.NET Web API) BrilhoTek - Shelby Twp, MI October 2018 to June 2019 Responsibilities:  • Successfully utilized code-first approach to design the database in the .NET environment by using, C# in the ASP.MVC5 environment.  • Designed a Web application using Web API with Angular7, leveraged Entity framework (EF)  • Implemented routing to allow for the use of a Single-page-application (SPA) with Angular  • Used the dbcontext to access data from the database.  • Created a RESTful Web API service using ASP.NET Web API to generate data for the database which was then consumed in the front-end by Angular  • Develop the front-end components using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 3, and Angular  • Implemented CRUD operations using $http service to call Web API methods.  • Implemented unit testing  Environment: Angular7, JavaScript, C#, ASP.NET Web API, SQL Server 2017, TFS, HTML5, Bootstrap, json, jQuery, Visual Studio 2017 Software QA/Test Engineer Wipro Technologies - Bengaluru, Karnataka March 2008 to October 2009 Project: Cashiering Management Technology (CMT QA)  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for analysis of business requirements for creating test cases and scenarios  • Developed Test plans, Test scenarios and detailed test cases based on the Use Case Documents, Business requirements and Functional Specifications  • Performed manual functional testing  • Performed regression testing  • Was involved in regression testing after each modifications and enhancements  • Tracked the bugs and reported them using Clear Quest as the defect tracking tool  • Involved in mainframe job execution as part of testing  • Developed audit check list  • Maintained test result tables such as test runs, builds etc.  • Used HP QC for documentation and test audit  • Supported UAT team for providing test data  • Prepared daily, weekly and monthly status report to onsite coordinator  • Corresponded among QA managers, developers and team members  Environment: TSO/ISPF, MVS, DB2, Clear Quest, Client Central, Schwab.com, ICS, SWIFT Analyst Programmer Travancore Software Solutions PVT Ltd July 2005 to April 2007 Involved in various migration projects in a mainframe environment  Responsibilities:  • Methodology for VSAM to DB2 conversion  • Data Conversion  • Conversion of the Data files from EBCDIC to ASCII  • Conversion MVS/VSE COBOL to Micro Focus COBOL  • Conversion of MVS/VSE JCL to Korn shell scripts  • Technical Design Document Preparation  • Test Plan, Test case Preparation, Functional Testing, Regression Testing Education Master of Computer Applications in Computer Applications Maharaja College, Erode, Bharathiar University, Coimbatore - Erode, Tamil Nadu July 2005 Bachelor of Science in Electronics in Electronics College of Applied Sciences, Mavelikara, University of Kerala - Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala June 2002 Skills .net, Visual studio, Api, C#, Javascript, Bootstrap, Xml, Ado, Db2, Ado.net, Ms sql server, Sql server, Sql, Vsam, Asp, Asp.net, Share point, Web services, Html5, Mvc Additional Information TECHNICAL COMPETENCIES    Programming C#, C, COBOL, JCL, CICS  Databases MS SQL Server 2017, Oracle8i, DB2 and VSAM  Internet Technologies HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 3, Angular7, JavaScript, jQuery, XML  Business Analysis Methodologies Waterfall, Agile, Scrum, V model  Project Management GitHub, Microsoft Project, Microsoft Office, TFS, Share Point  Version Control Systems Rational Clear Case  .NET ASP.NET Web Forms, ASP.NET MVC, Web Services, Web API, ADO.NET, Entity Framework  Bug Management Tools Rational Clear Quest, Quality Center, Bugzilla, JTrac, Jira  Operating Systems MS-DOS, Windows, UNIX, Linux, MVS/ESA  Development Tool Visual Studio 2017, Visual Code