Software Engineering Immersive Student Software Engineering Immersive Student Software Engineer | Specializing in Back-end Python and JavaScript Santa Clara, CA A wise person once said: "If you want to go fast, go alone. If you want to go far, go together." I want to bring my unique blend of UX and Software Engineering skills to a motivated team to solve challenging problems. The process of breaking down a difficult problem into smaller chunks is something I thrive on. Piecing together a solution from all the little solutions is one of the most satisfying feelings. I believe in supporting the people around me so that we all improve together. Board and video games are a passion of mine, so if you like them then lets talk.    Development Skills: Python / Django, JavaScript, MERN Stack, HTML / CSS  Tools: Visual Studio Code, Postman, Chrome Dev Tools, Git / Github Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineering Immersive Student General Assembly - San Francisco, CA April 2019 to July 2019 In the Software Engineering Immersive Course I developed several full stack apps.    My third project, Root Rideshare, was a group project that was built on Django, a Python-based web framework. Root Rideshare enabled commuters to easily find rides to and from work during their work week. The feature I am most proud of in this project is integrating both the Google Directions and Static Maps API in conjunction to generate dynamic images (with the path through the streets between point A and B) for the routes that users take to and from work as the routes are created. This feature helps the user visualize exactly how they're getting to their destination.    My second project, Game Journal, was a MEN stack (MongoDB, Express, Node.js) app where users could write stories about games they've played and have other users comment on their posts. The feature that I am most proud of in this project is the integration of the Giant Bomb API. I used their API to generate reliable info on a game that a user searched. This way, when another user searched the first user's profile looking at the games they played in the past, there would always be reliable information to aid their discovery. UX Designer The Little Orchestra Society - Remote January 2019 to March 2019 Overhauled UI of organization's existing website    Created flowcharts for the interactive features of the website    Built a clear map of website structure with wireframes to accompany the layout (homepage, content navigation page, and content presentation templates) Contract Web Designer / Developer Louisiana NAACP - Remote March 2018 to June 2018 Solo designed the visual style, interface, and interaction flow of the LA NAACP website to highlight the annual conference    The website generated over $2000 in donations    Delivered finished product a week ahead of schedule Contract Web Designer / Developer Tulane Dept. of Anesthesiology - Remote October 2015 to October 2016 Worked with various stakeholders to understand detailed requirements and design a complete user experience that meet client needs and vision    Solo redesigned website visited by 90,000 monthly users    Designed all visual elements: colors typography, layout, images    Delivered finished product $3000 under budget  Application Development Specialist IBM - Baton Rouge, LA March 2014 to December 2014 Monitored daily data loads, documented load failures, and coordinated with the offshore team of Business Analysts to resolve the issue Education None in Software Engineering Immersive Bootcamp General Assembly - San Francisco, CA April 2019 to July 2019 None in UX Design CareerFoundry - Remote January 2017 to January 2018 B.S. in Information Systems Tulane University 2013 Skills Python (2 years), Javascript (3 years), HTML (4 years), CSS (4 years), PostgresSQL (1 year), Web Development (4 years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/christian-watson http://github.com/nicofasho Awards 1st Place LinkedIn Hackathon for Economic Opportunity 2019-07 Additional Information ? Software Engineer with a background in Information Systems and UX, interested in backend dev opportunities  ? Experienced in Python, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS through multiple full-stack projects completed at General Assembly  ? Excellent communication skills and an engaged collaborator from experience at GA and Little Orchestra Society  ? In depth understanding of industry best practices to ease collaboration with team members  ? Ability to pick up new technology quickly due to natural curiosity (completed General Assembly's 12 week Software  Engineering bootcamp)