Creater / Developer Creater / <span class="hl">Developer</span> San Diego, CA Tech savvy customer service professional accustomed to managing multiple systems while delivering pleasant and courteous service. Familiar with point-of-sale systems, websites, and customer relationship management.Comfortable with sales and problem resolution. Work Experience Creater / Developer Healthcnxt - San Diego, CA September 2018 to Present • Develop and maintain a health, sports, and fitness social networking platform.  • Network to help users find pickup games, training events, sporting events, trainers and coaches in their local communities.  • Monitor analytics and marketing campaigns to build user retention. Freelance Web Developer Arnold's Web Development - San Diego, CA January 2018 to Present • Generate new business through client referrals and Craigslist ads.  • Assist clients with the development of website concepts and design.  • Maintain optimal workflow from start to finish while coding the website appearance and functionality. Tenant/Guest Satisfaction Specialist Tessie's Rentals - San Diego, CA January 2018 to June 2019 • Greeted Airbnb guests, gave them a property orientation, and shared local resources to improve the quality of their stay and earn a favorable property review.  • Completed small home improvements to assure marketability of the properties.  • Assisted in general property management including marketing, rent collection and responding to tenant requests. Client Success Specialist Property Capsule Inc October 2016 to September 2017 • Engaged with customers using a customer messaging platform with a response time of less than 15 minutes. Resolved software bugs promptly and escalated priority tickets.  • Provided user app onboarding, training and troubleshooting through live chat, phone, email, and screen share.  • Assisted the development team with new software development features and built automated marketing materials. Web Developer Wombo Inc October 2015 to April 2016 • Developed analytic features and maintained point of sale system for 3 business establishments using PHP and MySQL. Created WordPress websites.  • Assisted the IT field team by providing internet access at trade shows and conferences.  • Implemented online marketing campaigns and reported analytics to upper management.  Optical Assistant See Kleer Eye Care Center - San Diego, CA March 2015 to October 2015 • Managed patient relationships, including scheduling, insurance, billing, front office clerical duties, and assisted optometrist with patient visual acuity examinations.   • Collaborated with optic labs and operated an eyeglass fabricating machine. Education Associate in Business Administration San Diego Mesa College - San Diego, CA July 2017 to August 2019 Skills PHP, Javascript, Bootstrap, HTML5, Jquery, Laravel, Vue.js, Customer Service (2 years), Microsoft Office (2 years)