IT Administrator IT Administrator IT Administrator - Caring Professionals Brooklyn, NY IT consultant with more than 5 years of experience in providing strategic guidance regarding IT technology to clients and organizations within healthcare and the private sector. Work Experience IT Administrator Caring Professionals - Forest Hills, NY 2018 to Present • Maintain over 2 million dollars of equipment.  • Consistently provide training to marketing representative for software testing.  • Designed and implemented solutions for my organization that drastically cut project times.  • Assembled and configured hardware and software for over 50+ computers for all 3 site.  • Managed the phone and voicemail system, including, moving employee extensions, and   managing users, groups, and recordings.  • Performed data analysis, testing, debugging, and problem resolution for existing end-user   software solutions.  • Researched and evaluated technology solutions to present recommendations for improved   system operations.  • Responsible for day to day operation and updates of local servers, switches, UPS,   workstations, printers, and audio visual equipment.  • Assisted local and remote users on use of computer devices to include smart phones and   tablets  • Documented all existing networking, policies, procedures and inventory. Freelance Full Stack Web Developer New York, NY 2015 to Present • Develop simple, seamless, and elegant web experiences JQUERY  • Development of single page application and other applications to scale  • Test and configure functional and regression test cases for web and mobile interfaces  • Experience using Git and Github  • Knowledgeable on documenting and debugging code  • Experience with Adobe CS for UX / UI Design  • Managed Front-end and back-end projects using HTML, WORDPRESS, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, MSQL, JQUERY, BOOTSTRAP, and PHP IT Consultant NYS - ITS - Brooklyn, NY 2016 to 2018 • Work closely with clients to analyze IT system requirements, clients information technology needs and their resources in order to plan IT projects and fulfill clients expectations  • Solve users IT issues - determined changes, recommend quality software, project modifications of software, hardware and networking.  Key Performance  • Monitor the execution of strategies, keep up to date with the new technology and researched latest Information technology market trends.  • Recommend the purchasing of new IT systems, presented new IT features/software and reported project progress to the management.  • Manage, train, and mentor all on-boarding Doctors and new hires on Hospital Technology. Education Master's in Cyber Security Southern New Hampshire University - Hooksett, NH July 2019 to Present Full Stack Developer New York City Tech - Brooklyn, NY January 2017 to August 2017 Bachelor's of Science in Healthcare Administration in acute care ECPI University 2014 Leadership ECPI University 2011 to 2013 In-Design New York State Software Engineering Group 2013 Skills FRONT-END, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, PHP, ACTIVE DIRECTORY (3 years), Exchange, FIREWALL, SQL, SAAS, Networking