Web Site Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> Site <span class="hl">Developer</span> Brand Analyst Oakland, CA Over the course of my years in school I have acquired a unique set of skills. Between my involvement on campus through the Seufferline Sales Program, Target corporate and my side work with Sprite and Dreaming Tree Films, I was able to achieve great growth. These opportunities have allowed me to be involved in numerous sales role plays, and the development of new products as well as the... Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Site Developer Omnia Brokerage - Santa Clarita, CA January 2017 to Present ? Designed, built and maintain website using scripting language, content creation tools and digital  media.  ? Consult with management teams to prioritize need, resolve conflicts, develop and design content.  ? Backed up websites from local directories for instant recovery in case of problems and resolve  conflicts. Assistant Brand Manager Guarachi Wine Partners - Woodland Hills, CA September 2016 to Present ? Identified, developed and evaluated marketing strategies based on self-created stock depletion reports using Orderoso and Virtual World software.  ? Renewed company website by creating blurbs for each product then added them using WordPress.  ? Created detailed list of suppliers, including most important contacts within each company, as well as contract renewal dates and distributed it to sales management team.   ? Coordinated warehouses in Europe, New York and Los Angeles making sure stock abided by all legal laws, passed through customs and was delivered to different customers.   ? Collaborated with head of marketing to create an improved marketing plan as well as incentives for reps. Target Campus Grant Target - Chico, CA August 2015 to December 2015 Target Campus Grant Competition challenged groups of students with creating innovative ideas to use within their stores. Our group developed the smart cart for the City Targets in the San Francisco Area and pitched the idea to executives. We were involved in considering expenses, trials,distribution, benefits and costs of the smart cart. As well as looking into app development of the Target app and allowing the smart cart to sync to an app automatically upon arrival to the store. Filmmaker Dreaming Tree Films / Fresh Films, Sprite - Los Angeles, CA April 2010 to May 2010 Organized the casting, sides and auditions in pre-production phase.  Assisted in the filming of the short, the auditions, the actors in a variety of tasks and collaborated with the crew  Collaborated with others and analyzed the information in order to choose the best solutions and solve problems.  Promoted the film through the internet, creating a page on Facebook, Twitter and setting up interviews with the Los Angeles Times and television news stations Education BS in Marketing California State University Chico - Chico, CA 2014 to 2016 AA in French Linguistics College of the Canyons - Santa Clarita, CA 2012 to 2014 Certifications/Licenses Seufferline Sales Program May 2016 to Present A program specific to Chico State, choosing specific business students to compete in sales role plays with corporate partners and against other Universities all while earning their business degree and their sales certificate.