Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Remote Software Developer Waterville, ME Actively seeking a full-time, remote software or web developer position.   https://csmartinez.github.io/Portfolio/ Work Experience Software Developer Freelance May 2019 to Present Remote/Telecommute    ? Debugging, maintaining and building upon a large-scale software built with Node JS and Ruby on Rails  ? Building microsites for Netflix to mirror designs provided on photoshop files Web Applications Developer Northern Arizona University - Flagstaff, AZ 2017 to 2019 Managed and updated web content across hundreds of web pages among several organizations    ? Designed and built innovative solutions to data presentation problems  ? Programmed search engines, interactive maps, online forms, and more  ? Oversaw the department's inventory and assisted with computer related issues  ? Edited media presentations and co-managed complex file systems. Front-End Developer Banner Edge Media 2015 to 2018 Remote/Telecommute  Built hundreds of microsites, landing pages in the higher education industry across the U.S. and Canada    ? Programmed forms, validations and worked with clients daily to meet their needs  ? Diagnosed and fixed system errors to improve software machine learning quality Ruby on Rails Software Engineer National Parks Service - Flagstaff, AZ 2015 to 2016 Rebuilt an existing grand canyon raft trips-organizing software into a new platform in Ruby on Rails with careful design and planning    ? Wrote complex algorithms as well designed the UX and UI as the main end-to-end engineer  ? Gained valuable experience with database designing and implementation  ? Led and guided the team working on the new platform Education Bachelor's in Applied Computer Science Northern Arizona University - Flagstaff, AZ 2015 to 2019 Skills Git (4 years), Javascript (4 years), PHP (4 years), Ruby (4 years), CSS (4 years), HTML 5 (4 years), Ruby on Rails (4 years), SQL (4 years), Software Development (3 years), Web Development (4 years), User Experience Design (2 years), User Interface Design (2 years) Links http://github.com/csmartinez