Web Development Engineer <span class="hl">Web</span> Development Engineer Web Development Engineer Bend, OR Work Experience Web Development Engineer Kollective Technology, Inc - Bend, OR January 2019 to July 2019 Helped get a problematic Webcaster software version released shortly after starting work, improving customer satisfaction and new event registration with better features, which helped bring in more Webcaster product sales.  ? Worked on a team effort to sunset our product's dependence on Flash in light of the impending Flash EOL in 2020, while improving live video playback quality and user satisfaction. Senior Software Developer - Consultant EdgeLink, LLC - Portland, OR September 2017 to September 2018 working on-site at CMD    • Designed and developed a simple, lightweight and efficient funds transfer tool that helped clients do their business more efficiently, streamlining management of their marketing funds. Integrated Salesforce, Joomla, ReactJS, PHP and HTML/CSS into a modular solution to accomplish this.  • Developed an event planning system for mobile showroom events that JELD-WEN was sponsoring, utilizing Laravel, PHP, ReactJS and Eloquent, Laravel's ORM. It processed thousands of sales leads at least 10x as fast as the previous prototype solution. Senior Software Developer - Consultant Cybercoders, Inc - Tualatin, OR May 2017 to September 2017 working on-site at Stack Sports    • Improved operating efficiency of a game rescheduling API by 50x, by consolidating and tweaking schedule information queries and consolidating scheduling error handling routines. Used PHP, Javascript and PostgreSQL to implement the fixes.  • Helped refactor and improve a sports scheduling system that is in use by several thousand teams and sports clubs across the country, with names like the Dallas Cowboys and the Portland Timbers, who depend on how well the system works. Senior Software Developer - Consultant EdgeLink, LLC - Portland, OR November 2016 to January 2017 working on-site at CMD    • Improved product search efficiency 20x over the existing infrastructure within a week of being hired by using XML-layer data caching.  • Helped finish the client's micro-site project ahead of schedule and with plenty of project budget to spare. Senior PHP Developer McClain Concepts, Inc - Portland, OR March 2016 to July 2016 • Worked on a Setup Wizard for new custom user-generated sites, implementing caching techniques and optimizations throughout the codebase that greatly reduced user onboarding time, resulting in increased revenue.  • Served as a mentor to junior developers and acted as a team lead, ensuring that our software was scalable, efficient, and extensible, all while remaining within time and budget constraints.  • Implemented an Authorize.NET billing implementation in PHP / Laravel within one work week by effectively and efficiently leading a team of developers, resulting in a shortened launch period. Software Engineer II Adecco USA - Boise, ID May 2015 to March 2016 Consultant working on-site at Hewlett-Packard, Inc.)    • Improved the existing business-class printer fleet's touchscreen UI by reducing bugs and developing system and unit tests in C#, resulting in better UI responsiveness.  • Contributed to the new menu implementation code as a software engineer by working with C#, JavaScript and JSON to improve the legacy menu system. My work is therefore on official HP business-class touchscreen printers released after 2016.  • Reduced test implementation and design time by about half, by using C# to automate generic component testing for common UI input section types (radio buttons, checkboxes, screen contents, common structures, etc.) Software Developer eBroker Software - Nampa, ID July 2014 to January 2015 • Saved the company about a month's worth of manual work by creating a document storage migration solution for existing customer HIPAA-compliant health insurance documents to another secure server within my first two weeks.  • Helped design and implement a user information and agency reporting site as a full-stack developer, utilizing Stripe, PHP, JavaScript, MySQL which increased our business revenue by several hundred dollars per agent, and ensured that we had repeat business throughout the country. Software Developer SurveyVitals - Boise, ID December 2013 to April 2014 • Improved and streamlined client onboarding considerably by designing and implementing a setup wizard application in PHP5, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS3 and jQuery.  • Improved the functionality of existing code by cleaning up old code, improving performance and re-structuring old code into OO models. Skills Visual studio, C#, Html, Javascript, Reactjs, Oauth, Php, Laravel, Software development, Mysql, Postgresql, Sql, Css, nginx, Jira, Java, jquery, Mongodb Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/justinwhowe80 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Software Development: C# (1.5 years), PHP (5 years), Laravel (3 years), Java (2 years college, 0.5 years professional), HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), JavaScript (5 years), jQuery (5 years), ReactJS (1 year), OAuth, Stripe, Authorize.NET, RESTful APIs, Joomla    Databases: MySQL, MongoDB, PostgreSQL    Tools: Visual Studio, PHPStorm, SQL Workbench, dbForge, nginx, git, JIRA & BitBucket, Studio 3T