SAP Ariba Functional Consultant SAP Ariba Functional Consultant SAP Ariba Functional Consultant - IBM Baton Rouge, US, LA Baton Rouge, LA Experienced Ariba Consultant with excellent client and project management skills. Action-  oriented with strong ability to communicate effectively with technology, executive, and business  audiences.    Focused and detail-oriented Software Engineer offering exceptional troubleshooting skills and  talent for developing innovative solutions to unusual and difficult problems. Work Experience SAP Ariba Functional Consultant IBM - Baton Rouge, LA October 2017 to Present Projects accomplished:    • CIGNA  (December 2017- June 2018)    ? Functional Document for Workflow of the process from Sourcing to Supplier Management in the Implementation of Ariba with inputs from team members.  ? Prepared Training document with PPTs for Sourcing and Supplier Management Module for client.  ? Helped in creating PDD for sourcing module to teammate in Cigna.  ? Did test scripts for Sourcing, Supplier management with various scenarios and tested in the QA environment.    • J&J (Johnsons & Johnsons)  (July18 - Present)    ? Training document for daily monitoring tasks which was related to approval  and denial of PR based on interfaces between On-demand and On- premise(J&J)  ? Preparing the technical documents for the manual update in system (J&J)  ? Ran, Verified and fixed the PR Recon reports as daily monitoring  tasks(J&J)  ? Preparing and managing the knowledge articles (Uploading the Resolution)  for the team.  ? Hands on with the Procurement process with various ticket resolution  successfully done with appreciation from user.  ? Working on Putty, WinScp and SQL developer as part of the project  requirement for resolving tickets Web developer Indian Institute of Management, IIM - Ahmedabad, Gujarat August 2017 to September 2017 • Created a Web Application Simulation for the MBA students using PHP, SQL that involved putting the values for forecast, planning the product  etc. for creating future business product for a particular case study. Senior Technician Geeks Technical Solution Mohali, India, Punjab January 2017 to June 2017 • Acted as Senior Technician in Technical Support by resolving cases based on OS windows, Apple Education Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology University Institute of Engineering and Technology - Chandigarh, Chandigarh August 2013 to June 2017 Skills ARIBA, CSS, SQL, C++, HTML, SCM Certifications/Licenses PHP on Cloud June 2016 to Present Created a website named Techzuke on latest tech gadgets.