Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Elmhurst, NY Work Experience Web Developer CALL-A-HEAD March 2019 to Present Transform legacy page into responsive web page. Maintain Shopify online store. Customer Engineer mindSHIFT Technology Inc - New York, NY April 2017 to August 2018 April - October 2018)  • Provides face to face technical support for Uncommon Schools in majorly  Brooklyn location  • Manage staff and student's laptops, desktops and other devices.  • Support includes troubleshoot hardware's issues, software's update and upgrade  • Track inventory of schools' technical equipment such that WAPs (Wireless Access  Points), Printer/Copier, Bell System and so forth.  • Handle EOL (End of Life) equipment.  • Perform data migration from Win7 to Win7 (or Win7 to Win10) When needed.  • QA (Quality Assure) corresponding's profile. Deliver finished device to End User.  • RDP into Server, manager user's account through Active Directory  • Conduct Cable Management to prevent dangling cable in order to provide safer  office environment and to optimize the usage of power strip  Platform by Per Scholar X Cognizant Bronx Site Quality Engineer September 2017 to December 2017 • Acquire full time training on fundamental of Quality Engineer  • Practice Agile Scrum Methodology as a team includes daily standup meeting, create Sprint's product backlog  • Coordinate with a team of 14 people  • Developed an online book renting system using Java IT Technician/Desktop Support City College of City University of New York September 2015 to November 2015 Installed, configured and troubleshoot hardware and software on internal system  platform  • Created ticket on CRM application for faculty staffs; follow up the case; escalate  to engineer when it needed to.  • Provide training on hardware and software to school facilities. Education B.S. in Computer Science Grove School of Engineering, City College of New York Skills C++ (3 years), Tech Support, Help Desk, Helpdesk Support, Desktop Support, Service Desk Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/minghui-wang-1282b766/ Additional Information SKILLS Languages: Fluent Mandarin, Dialect of Fuzhou, China  Core values: self-starter, team player, quick learner, hard-working