RESEARCH ASSISTANT RESEARCH ASSISTANT RESEARCH ASSISTANT - CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY Branson, MO I am a result driven and customer focused with a passion for front end development. Being experienced with multiple technologies and languages, I aim to have a career that will allow me to express my creativity and build on the strong foundation that I have developed, while learning new ones. I am Experienced in object-oriented programming, testing, debugging and data Analysis. Strong foundation in software engineering across multiple platforms. Successful in self as well as team-oriented environment.    Programming Languages and Skillset  • C++, Python, SQL, HTML, MIPS assembly language coding, MATLAB, Xamarin forms  • Excel, Word, Power-Point, Google Doc, Google Slides, Google Spreadsheets, Google Analytics, Microsoft XP/7/10  • Search Engine Optimization, Site Troubleshooting, Web Development, Agile Methodologies, UX & UI Design  • Strong decision maker, Complex problem solver, Excellent communicator, Innovative, Team Oriented, Organized Work Experience RESEARCH ASSISTANT CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY - San Marcos, CA March 2019 to June 2019 • Designed and maintained website for Biotech research department Popgen Pipeline Platform project.  • Created statistical modeling using Jupyter Notebooks which is an open-source web application. WEB DEVELOPER CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY - San Marcos, CA June 2017 to December 2018 • Maintained University website, designing and developing web pages, emails and assisted campus community with web related requests and trained new hires and provided continual support for affiliated team.  • Performed quality assurance compliance tests to detect errors and optimize usability with the help of Compliance Sheriff software.  • Troubleshoot and resolve bugs in application to ensure optimal development environment.  • Ran monthly reports and created detailed spreadsheet to record campus data of Webpages.  • Assisted faculty and student assistants in updating live content on the Web pages and assisted in the transition of campus website from cascade software to OU campus software. STUDENT ASSISTANT CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY - San Marcos, CA December 2016 to May 2017 • Provide excellent customer service to diverse group of clients, including students, employers, and visitors by answering phone calls, emails, in-person inquiries and assisted with computers and questions regarding programs.  • Managed campus Team Calendar to reflect a variety of weekly events to involve team members.  • Represent department professionally at campus and offsite events. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science and Mathematics CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY - San Marcos, CA August 2015 to May 2019 Skills Search Engine Optimization, Excel, Web Development, SQL Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/atish-patel-870835124 Awards Dean's List • Dean’s List twice for students achieving better than 3.50 GPA Tuition Waiver • Awarded International Student Tuition Scholarship for excellent academic performance and active participation in the campus community Assessments Data Analysis — Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fdn-uqcxpgiuplul Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.