Designer UI/UX Designer UI/UX Schaumburg, IL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Designer UI/UX EquityRoots - Schaumburg, IL January 2018 to December 2018 Designed internal templates for the company and some templates for their website, using Photoshop, Illustrator, Sketch.  Used Bootstrap in their website to do responsive design.  Designed different interfaces for the company.  Creation of prototypes and mockups for the internal products of the company. Front End Web Developer Freelances project GIO GLOBAL INTELLIGENCE / DOLLENS ASSOCIATES - Chicago, IL October 2018 to November 2018 Developed the front-end structure for the project in this company with ExpressJs (MVC), and GulpJs as a JavaScript task manager.    Developed basic templates for the application with PugJs Front End Developer Instituto Politécnico Nacional - Mexico, MO January 2017 to December 2017 Developed web applications for different departments in the Institute in different programming languages such as Java, PHP, Javascript.    Worked with different frameworks such as Spring MVC, Codeigniter, ExpressJs, AngularJs.    Collaborated with design of interfaces using tools such as Illustrator to the web applications of the IPN and programming of design with CSS, SASS, LESS.    SIIFOCAP was a web application created to keep information about the high schools and colleges of the IPN.    UPEV is an area where we developed a web application, and its main objective was to manage the courses that were given to teachers and students of the schools. Front End Web Developer - Designer UI/UX Conecta Soluciones - Ciudad de México, D. F. January 2016 to December 2016 Developed web applications for the financial sector in Mexico using mainly frameworks such as Spring MVC.    Developed online and mobile banking to different banking institutions using mainly Javascript.    Designed different interfaces online and mobile banking.  Intervened with the technical support our web applications.    Collaborated with management of encryption security equipment for online and mobile applications HSM (Hardware Security Model) Education Computer Science UPIICSA - Mexico, MO 2010 to 2014 Skills Web Developer (4 years), Graphic Designer (4 years), Security infrastructure (HSM) (1 year), Support Manager (3 years), Operating System (3 years), Mobile Develop (Less than 1 year), Database Manager (MongoDB) (1 year), Designer UI/UX (4 years), PHP, Javascript