Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Engineer - http://sudipbaral.com/ Elmhurst, NY A UI/UX Designer, Researcher and Web Developer with over 5+ years of hands-on experience in IT industry. Exposure to graphic design, front-end development, UX Design and client server applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Java, Bootstrap, Wordpress, Adobe CS6, Eclipse, Adobe XD, Adobe Photoshop CC, InDesign and InVision. Developed sound UX concepts like creation of personas, storyboards, prototypes and mock ups. Strong debugging and problem-solving skills with passion for gaming & AR/VR technology.    • Solid understanding of Design Aesthetic.  • Excellent visual design skills with sensitivity to user-system interaction  • Familiar with Bootstrap, Angular js(1/2/4/6), Node js and React.  • Solid Understanding in front-end technologies such as HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and web UI frameworks like AngularJS, Bootstrap, Backbone, JQuery, ReactJS/Redux etc.  • Good experience working on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, and Pseudo Elements.  • Proficient with design tools like Adobe Creative Suite(Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign)  • Expert in building Wireframes, Sitemaps, Mockups, User Personas, Prototypes, Storyboards using tools like ( XD, Sketch InVision, Axure, Balsamiq)  • Familiar with web services like REST and SOAP to create APIs using JSON.  • Knowledge on 3D virtualization toolkits like Cesium and WebGL.  • Understanding of ES5 and ES6 standards.  • Experience in databases like Couchbase and Mongo DB.  • Good knowledge of 3D modeling, texturing, rigging and animation.  • Expertise in using source code control systems using GITHub.  • Experience with Agile Development Methodology.  • Experience in Java micro-services. Work Experience Software Developer www.officedepot.com - Boca Raton, FL March 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Design, develop, implement, support and maintain e-commerce application based on business requirements, using approved techniques and coding standards for Java micro-services.  ? Apply object-oriented principles for implementation.  ? Pull all the micro-services from GitHub to Eclipse Editor to run it in local machine for testing.  ? Maintain code quality through performance (load) testing using K6 or Jmeter in terminal.( Use of bash commands)  ? Document the code coverage by using Junit test.  ? Execute the code using Swagger/ RunScope and Rancher to find the error logs.  ? Create a ticket using JIRA ticketing system for error logs/ bug tracking in services and pass it to the developer who was working on that particular service.  ? Data Migration in CouchBase from db2.  ? Parameterize the N1QL query using Simple query, parameterized query or prepared statements.  ? Participate in SCRUM meeting everyday following AGILE methodology.  ? Collaborate with business analysts, QA Engineer, React Team, Programmers and other team members on project.  ? Use of Slack and Microsoft team for communication within the team.  ? Use of GitHub for version control, commit the changes and push it to local branch. Later once approved by Senior Developers, those commits will be merged to master branch.  ? Use of JIRA for story assignment.  Technical environment: Java, Couchbase, Eclipse, GitHub, RunScope, Swagger, Rancher, SLack, MS Team, K6, Jmeter, JIRA, AGILE/SCRUM UX Researcher/ Designer/ UI Developer www.youngstarclub.com August 2018 to February 2019 Responsibilities:  ? Created a Taxonomy (user interview, sitemaps, card sorting, surveys)and prepared the documentation for the client.  ? Built a completely new web presence for a sports club. Performed under very tight deadlines to give standard look using modern techniques.  ? Enhanced legacy application by building new components in Angular 2 and typescript.  ? Built a site from scratch using Bootstrap framework, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery and javaScript.  ? Used animate.css to give animated look n feel for the site.  ? Used Angular for calling server-side APIs.  ? Simplified Adding search parameters to an "HTTP request" using Angular.  ? Designed color palette and logo to reflect customer branding identity using illustrator.  ? Using Semantics like <form>, <table>, and <article>.  ? Designed the wire frame and Prototype(Low-Mid Fidelity) to provide user experience using Adobe XD, Balsamiq.  ? Used Github for pushing the changes made in local repository.  ? Communicate with the client to determine marketing and design vision, scopes of work, and budgets and deliverable timeframes.  Technical environment: Bootstrap, Angular, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, Illustrator, Photoshop, Balsamiq, JustinMind, Adobe XD, GitHub</article></table></form> UI/UX Designer Touro College - New York, NY February 2018 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Format designs and media for use in print and web applications; deliver production-ready graphics in HTML and CSS.  ? Developed user interfaces using framework with JavaScript, HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, Jquery, Bootstrap.  ? Responsible for providing graphic design and production support for a wide range of communication and marketing materials  ? Event handling using Event Bubbling&Target Element.  ? Trained junior graphic designers on Adobe Creative Suite programs such as Illustrator, Photoshop, Invision and Dreamweaver.  ? Used Illustrator to create Illustrations, charts, graphs, logos, diagrams, cartoons of real photographs, and more.  ? Used InVision which allows you to efficiently and simply create interactive mockups for your  wireframes and designs.  ? Used Angular 2 to run the JavaScript code within the user's web browsers to implement a reactive user interface (UI).  ? Performed according to JIRA board assignment to complete the story.  Technical environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular 2.0, Bootstrap, Adobe Creative Suite, JIRA Website Manager KMA, Nepal - NP July 2014 to April 2016 Website: http://kaskimodernized.edu.np/  Responsibilities:  ? Designed and created website and web interfaces using Javascript, HTML, CSS, JQuery, and XML.  ? Used Wordpress themes and Plugins to make it more interactive.  ? Responsible for writing Angular code that calls server-side APIs over JSON.  ? Used Foundation Testing Framework like Jasmine, Protractor, Karma, Ionic Grid system to make web page responsive.  ? Used InVision and Illustrator which allows you to efficiently and simply create interactive mockups, wireframes and designs.  ? Actively participated in agile daily scrum, Planning meeting, backlog grooming and sprint retrospective.  ? Wrote client Side code using Angular JS and used NPM (Node Package Manager) & gulp directories  to generate the server environments used browser fly, flux to manage with targeted URL  ? Created reusable and configurable software components  ? Used tools ALM and JIRA for defect tracking and updating the status of defects.  ? Worked on the REST/ Web API to create the services and tested on Postman and used in  ? Angular js.  ? Used $HTTP service calls to bind the data in the table using ng-repeat attributes.    Technical environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Jasmine, Protractor, Karma, Photoshop, Illustrator, WordPress, Angular JS, NPM, GULP, JIRA, REST API Jr. Web designer Last Door Solutions - NP February 2012 to January 2013 Website: https://www.lastdoorsolutions.com/  Responsibilities:  ? Created User friendly and Responsive User Interface using HTML/CSS.  ? Created database in RDBMS using MySQL.  ? Developed graphics using Javascript, SVG & CSS.  ? Participated in the full SDLC/Agile cycle engagements, including meetings, iterative  development, estimations and design sessions.  ? Ability to maintain balance and space management on web page by implementing Box Model.  ? Created navigation bar, menu, header, footer and canvas drawing using HTML/ CSS.  ? Designed wireframe and mockups using Balsamiq.  ? Used jQuery plugins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  ? Designed the e-commerce page layout.    Technical environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, BalSamiq, CSS Box Model, MySQL, AGILE Education Master's in Web Page, Digital/Multimedia and Information Resource Design Touro College - New York, NY September 2016 to June 2018 Bachelor's in Multimedia Technologies Islington College- London Metropolitan University - Kathmandu, Nepal - Kathmandu, NP 2011 to 2014 Skills Git, Javascript, jQuery, MySQL, HTML 5, PHP, CSS, HTML 5 (3 years), Adobe CC (5 years), Java (1 year), Database Management (1 year) Links http://sudipbaral.com/