Full Stack Web Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Seattle, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Web Developer CDK Global - Seattle, WA February 2017 to October 2018 Nodejs, Javascript, html, css Systems Engineer Infosys - Chennai, Tamil Nadu February 2014 to October 2015 ? Analyzed the working of Boeing tools and determined new re-engineering solutions of the modules.  ? Developed the front-end layer of tools used to manage aircraft information.  ? Technologies: MySQL, .NET(C#) Internship Bharti Airtel Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra May 2012 to June 2012 to maintain his or her daily records.  • Accountable for the interfacing and designing of the module.  • Technologies: Java, MS Access Education Full stack web developement in Computer Science Thinkful - Seattle, WA July 2016 to December 2016 Bachelor's in Computer Science INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY & MANAGEMENT June 2009 to July 2013 Skills Javascript, React, Redux, Node Js, Java, Angular js, HTML 5, CSS, MongoDB, PostgresSQL, MySQL, Data Structures, C++ Links http://surbhiposwalia.com Additional Information Selected Projects:    Sync In, 12/2016   ? It’s the ultimate music platform, which brings the results from YouTube, SoundCloud and Vimeo into one platform.   ? User can create multiple playlist on the cloud, access it anywhere and share it to the world.   ? Added functionality of Google and Facebook login.  ? Developed a full stack web application using React and Redux in ES6 as the client and GitHub as version control.  ? Used Node.js in the server side and Mongo Database as the back end and deployed on Heroku using m-lab DB.    French-X, 11/2016   ? A French learning app, uses Spaced Repetition Algorithm in the back-end.  ? Developed a full stack web application using React and Redux as the client and GitHub as version control.  ? Used Node.js in the server side and Mongo Database as the back end.     Feel Good About Yourself, 10/2016   ? Shows the positive thoughts that users can rate. Users can add, edit, and delete the thoughts.  ? Developed a full stack web application using React and Redux as the client and GitHub as version control.  ? Used Node.js in the server side and Mongo Database as the back end and deployed on Heroku using m-lab DB.    Restaurant Locator, 9/2016   ? Designed a web application, using the Yelp API and Google Map API.  ? Provides the list of the restaurants and ratings for an area filtered by cuisine and gives the exact location on the map.