Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Aspiring Full-Stack JavaScript Programing Tecumseh, MI Work Experience Web Developer Personal Band Web Page - Tecumseh, MI 2018 to Present I created a web page for the band that I am currently in using HTML, CSS, jQuery, Bootstrap, and a small amount of PHP to handle the contact form's functionality. Some of the languages I had to learn on my own so that I could use them within my own project, such as PHP. Testing and Mechanical Tech III Sensors, Inc - Saline, MI 2014 to Present I currently work at a factory that creates equipment to analyze the carbon emissions from cars. I read blueprints for the parts that need to be created and then make the parts by hand. I have to build sub-assemblies that then go into the full assembly to make the equipment. I require little oversight in my current position as my boss explain what needs to be done for the month and I work hard to complete those orders in a timely manner. I also have to report the progress of those orders in team meetings that we have two times a week. Education High school Skills HTML, CSS3, SASS - basic amount, Javascript (OOP, Functional), jQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX, PHP - basic amount, MySQL - basic amount, PHPMyAdmin - basic amount, Node.js (npm, Gulp.js), MongoDB (basic amount), JSON, Express.js (using Pug as a view engine to serve dynamic content), Node, Javascript Assessments English Communication Skills: Typing — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively transcribe text using a standard keyboard. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/mbuei-kney-ipl8k Data Entry — Proficient July 2019 Entering data quickly and accurately. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/b6y1mtqdig-vcajv Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Other Skills  In learning full-stack programming, I have also had to learn about HTTP requests in general, making simple GET and POST requests to servers using Telnet to study the forms of the response. I have also had to learn about the headers that get sent along with the requests, to be able to include the appropriate headers in JavaScript programming when parsing responses in Node.js and other frameworks and view engines or when using JSON Web Tokens