Customer Service Customer Service Customer Service Representative Ozone Park, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Customer Service LEATHER SPA REPAIR FACILITY April 2016 to Present • Receive customer repairs and suggest the best solutions  • Contact customer through email or phone  • Order supplies when needed  • Handle customer concerns/complaints/questions  • Shipping manager for all 6 locations Hostess / Waitress Ravel Hotel (LIC) August 2017 to September 2018 ·        Greet all guest and direct tables  ·        Ensure guest seating is organized by leading brunch/dinner/catering services  ·        Be knowledgeable with all rules/guidelines of Hotel and Restaurant  ·        Answer calls, and make reservations as see fit  ·        Be enthusiastic and provide exceptional service to all guests  ·        Train all new hosts  ·        Be knowledgeable of all items on menu  ·        Be aware of food allergies Operations manager / web developer CAPITAL ONE - Flushing, NY January 2015 to November 2015 Customer transactions EX. Cashing. Checks, ATM custodian  ? Responsible for balancing drawers, process supply orders  ? Maintain area clean and organized  ? Provide exceptional customer service  ? Backup Lead Teller  ? Initialize credit card/bank sales Education AAS in Hospitality and Tourism Nassau Community College May 2015 Baccalaureate School for Global Education June 2010 Hospitality and Tourism UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAVEN Skills excellent organizational skills (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Office (Less than 1 year), MS OFFICE (Less than 1 year), organizational skills (Less than 1 year), powerpoint (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Skills:  ? Bilingual (Fluent in English and Spanish)  ? Highly motivated and self-starter  ? Ability to work efficiently in a fast-paced atmosphere  ? Ability to multi-task successfully with excellent organizational skills  ? Interact effectively and efficiently with all levels of staff  ? Exceptional relationship building and communicational skills  ? Strong presentation abilities  ? Vast knowledge in Microsoft Office (word, powerpoint)  ? Internet Savvy  ? Very knowledgeable/fluent with Open Table and Sevenrooms