Web Designer and Research Assistant <span class="hl">Web</span> Designer and Research Assistant Web Designer and Research Assistant - NODIS/Maxine Levin College of Urban Affairs Cleveland, OH • 2.5 years of hands on experience in Software Development and Website Development.  • Knowledgeable Front-End Developer adept at creating successful websites that meet customer needs.  • Specializing in collaborating with customers to gather requirements, produce plans and improve designs for usability.  • Fully proficient in C#, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script and Bootstrap.  • Practical Understanding of .net Programming, SQL Programming and PHP Programming, Adobe Photoshop and Sketch,  UI/Interface Designing, UX principals and design.  • Good command on E-commerce platforms and CMS such as WordPress, Drupal, Joomla.  • Completely performance driven, specifically in building bridges and uniting members to work on a common cause.  Ability to multitask and work in pressure environments. Work Experience Web Designer and Research Assistant NODIS/Maxine Levin College of Urban Affairs March 2019 to Present • Working as a Web designer with considerable work on research projects.  • Successfully created, developed and maintained several College and Client requested website (on different platforms.)  • Developed excellent research and reference skills while working on various research projects.  • Developed excellent communication skills, both written and oral while communication with CSU as well as non-CSU  clients.  • Conducted PowerPoint presentations, created reports after Data Analysis.  • Independently created web-sites for Cleveland State University and non-Cleveland State University clients. Student Assistant Information Technology and Services Department August 2018 to Present • Worked as a student assistant for the Information Technology and Services Department.  • Loaned out laptops and tablets to the students and staff.  • Installed different software as per the requirement of the students or the staff, as well as fixed any software issues that  they faced.  • Acknowledged customer issues and resolved their problems quickly and efficiently.  • Greeted customers and offered them assistance where possible.  • Fulfilled administrative duties that include completing and filing paperwork, directing a multi-line phone and setting  appointments. Software Developer Intern Central Water & Power Research Station June 2017 to May 2018 • I worked as an Intern at CW&PRS for my final year project.  • I developed a software application that was based on machine learning.  • It collected the recorded data of rainfall over the past ten years and predicted a value by using machine learning  algorithms which indicated how much amount of rainfall we were to receive in the eleventh year.  • The Application also sent an email to the gate keepers indicating whether the gate should be opened or should be kept  close.  • Interacted with computers daily for design and communication purposes.  • Interacted with people in other company departments to meet goals in a timely manner. Education Master of Science in Computers and Information Systems in Computer & Information Systems Cleveland State University May 2020 Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology in Information Technology Savitiribai Phule University of Pune May 2018 Skills DATABASE, SQL, VISUAL STUDIO, C#, DOCKER, Javascript, PHP, Jquery, Android, HTML 5, Git, MYSQL, CSS