Business Analyst Business Analyst Technical Product Manager Gilbert, AZ I'm a passionate, obsessive, and enthusiastic marketer. I went to school for marketing with a focus in  digital marketing, and worked as a web developer for my university during that time. I love health and  fitness, music, and technology. Over the past four years I've learned the importance of the digital  aspects of marketing, and integrated that into what I do. I want to help share my passion of health to  others, and use the tools I'm knowledgeable in to inspire people. Work Experience Business Analyst Banner Health - Phoenix, AZ November 2018 to Present Working on Apple Watch, Azure DevOps, APIM, ServiceNow/Jira, and Xamarin mobile app    Process creation in Banner Health's Innovation Group Digital Marketing Specialist, Marketing Revere Health - Provo, UT May 2017 to Present •Creation of streamlined process to assist in new employee on-boarding, including posting  new info, gathering said info, and publishing online to Web, Google My Business, and more.  •Provided direction with social and PPC ad campaigns, oversaw budget and strategy to maximize reach.  •Oversaw maintenance of website, continuing updates, and online SEO/location  management. Streamlining processes to more quickly accomplish tasks. Oversaw  deployment of reputation management software. Web Developer, Area Developer Support Woodbury School of Business - Orem, UT September 2014 to May 2017 •Leader in projects, training new staff, deploying new products and inventory.  •Assisted in training new co workers, and helped train new employees at UVU on how to use  our internal systems.  •Launched new internal student portal, new masters programs sites, and revamps to the  Woodbury School of Business sites. Education BACHELOR'S in Marketing Utah Valley University - Orem, UT December 2017 Associate in Business Management Utah Valley University - Orem, UT April 2016 Skills SEO, Google Analytics, Digital Marketing, Marketing, SQL, access, testing, Business Intelligence, Excel, Business Intelligence, MS Office, Excel, Microsoft Office, SQL, Powerpoint, access, testing Links http://kylesethgray.com