Programmer Analyst / Data analyst Programmer Analyst / Data analyst Programmer Analyst / Data analyst / Technical Consultant- State Of Maryland, MD Hanover, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Programmer Analyst / Data analyst State Of Maryland, MD 2017 to Present Analysis, maintenance / enhancements of a financial web application for a Department of Health ? Completely involved from requirements gathering to execution of User Acceptance Testing.  ? Assisted in task management by creating requirement documents, helped maintain development tickets in and helped with production releases.  ? Support application and SharePoint project design, development, planning, configuration, monitoring and maintenance in an enterprise environment.  ? Create SharePoint workflows per user requirements.  ? Completed 2 new version upgrades.  ? Executed SQL queries to check the validity of the backend data.  ? Produced monthly and daily reports for upper management used to enhance business operations.  ? Assessed Crystal reports from different divisions to ensure that certain business processes were operating efficiently.  ? Constructed SQL scripts for defining and manipulating databases.  ? Maintenance, testing of Microsoft SQL Server 2014 stored procedures.  ? Created application modules and enterprise applications from system design documents.  ? Worked on Health Level Seven ( HL7 ).  ? Provided technical support to MIS executive users, and production control. Junior Web Developer / Technical Consultant / devops Active Management Healthcare, NY 2016 to 2017 • Worked with senior developer and checking functionality of websites, user interfaces, and the overall look and feel of the web sites.  • Enhancements, maintenance, testing of VB.NET, ASP.NET Web application, JavaScript, CSS • Converting user requirements into design.  • Assist with performing site maintenance as needed for web application.  • Ensures all work incorporates defined requirements and employs best practices in user experience and accessibility guidelines.  • Addressed cross-browser compatibility issues.  • Worked with clients to create and update WordPress sites.  • Debugging codes and testing for browsers compatibility. Education Bachelors of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Gujarat University - Ahmedabad, Gujarat Associates in Information Technology in Relevant Coursework Howard Community College - Columbia, MD Skills DATABASE, SQL SERVER, SQL, CONTENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS, CSS, vb.net (2 years), asp.net (2 years), Sharepoint Designer (1 year), crystal report (1 year), HTML 5 (3 years), CSS, QUALITY ANALYST (3 years), PHP (2 years), SSRS, integration, ETL, HTML, Devops, Linux, AWS, Python, salesforce Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages: C++, C, Java script, PHP, VB script, HTML, css,  Tools & technology: MS office, Visio, Jira, sublime, Git, Browser stack, SharePoint, Crystal reports, Jira, Sys aid, Edit HL7  Operating Systems/Environments: Windows, OS X, Linux, Mac, UNIX  Database: SQL Server, My SQL  Content Management Systems: WordPress