Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Pleasanton, CA 4+ years of experience in Web Application Design and Development using HTML5, JavaScript/jQuery, CSS, bootstrap and SQL Server 2016 database.    ? Website UI/UX: Experienced in bootstrap, Angular, JavaScript, jQuery and HTML5 to implement in-line popup windows and left navigation menus.  ? Website Programming: C#, ASP.NET.  ? Database Skills: Creation of tables, relations (primary and foreign keys), stored procedures, functions and views using SQL server 2016 database.  ? Source Control: Experienced in Microsoft Team Foundation Server source control, Source Tree  ? Behavioral Skills: Possess very good analytical, problem solving skills, committed, hardworking and result oriented team player. Work Experience Web Developer Infoziant tech January 2017 to August 2018 Team Size 7  Environment Visual Studio 2017, Microsoft MVC 5, C#, ASP.NET JS, HTML5, Bootstrap and SQL Server 2016    Project Description:  Online web portal for medical insurance brokers agencies and agents to setup their accounts using their license numbers review their commissions and setup sales targets. This portal is used by various carriers as an addon portal for their systems.    Responsibilities:  ? Created full website structure and layout in mvc.net framework using Models, Views & Controllers.  ? Designed and developed front-end websites, using jQuery, AJAX and Angular  ? Created custom Angular components for internal framework  ? Two tier architecture is used where MVC framework connects to the SQL Server database.  ? Authentication in the logon process was implemented using MVC Identity framework.  ? Designed pages using html in bootstrap framework.  ? Implemented jQuery for slider, toggles, inline popup windows, AJAX requests to MVC actions and for client-side validations.  ? Unit tested using the Microsoft Test Studio.    Project Certification Portal  Duration Jan 2015- Dec 2017  Team Size 6  Environment Visual Studio 2017, Microsoft MVC 5, C#, ASP.NET JS, HTML5, Bootstrap and SQL Server 2016    Project Description:  Design & Develop a Web portal for health insurance brokers to train and take a test before getting certified for insurance brokerage.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed in MVC 5, C# using SQL server 2016 as the database.  ? Jquery is used for client-side validations and for displaying inline popup.  ? Used Google PDF viewer for displaying the training material.  ? The "test" sessions are developed with AJAX calls to the MVC action to get questions after the continues to the next question, and, to submit the user's results.  ? Used Canvas based image drawing in C# to generate a certificate which is written on an existing template when the user passes the test.  ? Sent email to the user with the certificate of completion. Lecturer Electrical and Electronics department, Bangalore college - Bengaluru, Karnataka 2008 to 2010 Lecturer Electrical and Electronics department, SNS College - Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu 2006 to 2008 Lecturer Electrical and Electronics department - Chennai, Tamil Nadu 2005 to 2006 Skills Visual studio, Api, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Asp, Css, Asp.net, Sql server, Sql, Html5, Mvc, Sdlc, jquery, Jira, Front End, NET, C#, Angular Additional Information Technical Qualification    Technologies: ASP.NET, MVC, Web API, MS SQL  Operating System: Windows  Software Language: HTML, HTML5, CSS, Angular, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap  Tools: Visual Studio 2017, SQL Server 2016, Source Tree,  SDLC Agile methodology, Atlassian Jira    Professional Snapshot  Technical lead- Sundialhomeproducts, Concord, CA Jun2019-till date  Web Developer- RGIP Consulting, Arizona Nov2018-June2019  software Developer - Infoziant Technologies, Chennai, India Jan 2015 - Aug 2018