Application Developer II. Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> II. Python Developer,Python Engineer(Python3, Django). PA • Strong knowledge in Python, Django, Java.  • Experience in design and implementation of modules on AEM 5.6.1, AEM 6.0.  • Hands on experience with Web Technologies like HTML5, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, and JQuery.  • Knowledge on DevOps and AWS cloud platforms.  • Experience in developing Web applications using AJAX and REST Web Services.  • Experience in designing and developing Web applications using Angular JS, Node JS and creating responsive web pages using Bootstrap.  • Good at Code Reviews, Writing Test Cases, Bug Fixing and Enhancements and a strong team player with excellent communication and problem solving skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application Developer II. DBI Services - Hazleton, PA April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Web development and JS programming using J Query and AJAX calls.  • Developed different formats of google charts using Google Chats API and returning them in DOCX and PDF formats in as needed.  • Experience implementing multiple APIs and libraries like matplotlib, VideoJS, Google Charts etc.  • Developed webpages with data coming from Django  • Used JavaScript for client side validations and a smooth UI experience for user through dynamic content.  • Responsible for testing, bug fixing and handling change requests.  • Wrote complex PostgreSQL queries using PostGIS functions to get spatial/GPS data for field vehicles.  • Generated Excel sheets from backend using Python and openpyxl library.  • Worked on HTML5 VideoJS Player Framework to play dynamic videos from server on page based on click.  Environment: Python3, Django, HTML5, JS, CSS, PostgreSQL, AJAX, Sublime Text, EMACS, Git, PostGIS AEM/ Web Developer MRM//MCCANN - Birmingham, MI October 2015 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked on AEM 6.0 version that deals with Sightly development.  • Design and implementation for the Marketo Forms API Integration.  • Box API Development integration for a document to be visible as an iframe.  • Used Angular JS for developing SPA and fetching data to the presentation layer.  • Used Apache Sling architecture to communicate between Java and AEM.  • Various components development from both Front-end and Back-end perspective.  • Involved in maintaining the site and fixing the issues to deploy code UAT within deadlines.  • Had more exposure towards agile projects and how to meet deadlines in a timely manner.  Environment: Java 1.7, AEM 5.6.1, AEM 6.0, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS, OSGI, Maven, Sublime Text, AJAX, CRXDE, GitHub, SVN, Hudson, Grunt. Java/ Web Developer Panelcoder Software Technologies - Bengaluru, Karnataka February 2014 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Design and develop User Interface using JSPs and HTML.  • Involved in the Requirement gathering for different client setups to consume the corporate date.  • Used JavaScript for client side validations and involved in developing JSPs for viewing the application.  • Responsible for unit testing and integration testing, bugs fixing, handling change requests.  • Wrote SQL Queries to get Schedule of policy payment and defaults.  Environment: Java 1.6, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, MySQL, Eclipse, spring, Hibernate, Web services, Junit, XML, Jenkins, Agile methodology, Linux. Education Masters in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Central Missouri - Warrensburg, MO December 2015 Bachelors in Computer Science in Computer Science Lords Institute of Engineering & Technology April 2014 Skills Django, Bootstrap, Python, Svn, Ajax, Css, Eclipse, J2ee, Java, jquery, Html5, Postgresql, Frameworks Additional Information Technical skills:  Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS, JS, JQuery, AJAX, AEM, KML  Languages & DB: Python, Java/J2EE, PostgreSQL  Environment & Tools: Eclipse, Sublime Text, GitHub, SVN, Hudson, Bower, EMACS  Frameworks: Angular JS, Node JS, Bootstrap, Django