Data Annotation Specialist Data Annotation Specialist Data Annotation Specialist - Vulcan, Inc. Seattle, WA Work Experience Data Annotation Specialist Vulcan, Inc - Seattle, WA June 2019 to Present ?     Utilizes a variety of internal/external software programs   ?     Supports several projects that prepare images for late AI training   ?     Reviews the annotating toolset, identifies the bottleneck and brings up the improvement of the tools Web Developer Assistant Seattle University New and Continuing Studies - Seattle, WA January 2019 to Present Manages and updates the school's website  ? Marketing and ad targeting  ? Manages all social media marketing campaigns and day-to-day activities and posts  ? Monitor, listen and responds to users on social platforms  ? Monitors google analytics Instructor Coding with Kids - Seattle, WA October 2017 to July 2018 After school instructor working mainly with Kindergarten and 1st-grade students  ? Teaches valuable logic based skills as well as coding basics through Scratch Office Assistant SC Pool Techs, Inc - San Clemente, CA September 2015 to 2018 Maintained office operations by receiving and distributing communications  ? Presided over technical services: Powerpoint, Excel, Website Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science with a Business Specialization in Finance Seattle University - Seattle, WA September 2016 to Present Skills Search Engine Optimization (2 years), Social Media Marketing (2 years) Assessments Search Engine Optimization — Highly Proficient April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/29ixx2nsyqtklphd Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient April 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/6jfyzrwi9ypdtzrk Market Research — Proficient August 2019 Analyzing data and using market research tools Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/2wcfsahnxpi5-4xy Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills    ? C++, C#, SQL, and introduction to JavaScript  ? Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, Access), Google Analytics, Marketing, and ad targeting  ? Concluded all courses of Calculus (III)