Software Designer Software Designer Future proof web and mobile developer Helsinki My interests lie in technologies for the web and mobile. Future will be mobile. Kotlin is my daily driver at work but for free time I most often use JavaScript. Flutter and cloud platforms are technologies I'm planning on developing apps with someday. Accessibility and cybersecurity are topics that have recently sparked gained more and more of my interest.     Currently, I work as a mobile developer in a customer project as mobile developer consultant. Developing an Android application with a strong emphasis on information security. I do mostly frontend but backend is not unknown to me either. At current job I do help out witj backend and iOS development when needed. In addition to development work, I review code, manage backlog and design new features, and maintain code base quality. Work Experience Software Designer CGI Group - Helsinki August 2017 to Present Started working for a customer's project developing native mobile applications with Kotlin for Android and Swift for iOS.    Have been part of every step along the app development process. From design, defining the features and specifications, managing backlog, using third-party solutions and developing the application with a small but great team of professional developers.    Information security plays a big part in the app, and I have been going outside of the box coming up clever ways to implement features to strengthen its security. All code is reviewed and in addition to reviewing frontend I was tasked to review backend code. Software Designer CGI Group - Helsinki December 2016 to August 2017 Worked with web technologies to create frontend for B2B mobile web applications with JavaScript, Backbone, HTMl and SASS. Backends used Java, Spring and PostgreSQL. These applications were also turned into hybrid mobile applications for Android, iOS and Windows Mobile by using Cordova.    As I was promoted to role of a Software Designer I received more responsibility for doing supporting tasks for app development such as working on feature specifications, communicating with internal customers and managing scrum backlog.     Together with a small scrum team I was given a lot of responsibility architecting, designing and implementing the different applications. Gained knowledge of app development on a higher level than only coding.    Day to day responsibilities were code reviewing tickets, doing development and testing. Junior Full Stack Web Developer CGI Group - Helsinki May 2016 to November 2016 Worked with web technologies to create frontend for B2B mobile web applications with JavaScript, Backbone, HTMl and SASS. Backends used Java, Spring and PostgreSQL. These applications were also turned into hybrid mobile applications for Android, iOS and Windows Mobile by using Cordova.    Together with a small scrum team I was given a lot of responsibility architecting, designing and implementing the different applications. Gained knowledge of app development on a higher level than only coding.    Day to day responsibilities were code reviewing tickets, doing development and testing. Mobile developer (trainee) Welapro Oy - Oulu October 2015 to May 2016 Designing and developing database and REST API for server back-end that will be used with Weela mobile software, web-service and other devices in the future. Weela is a new exercising machine that is controlled with mobile devices using their own mobile software. Education B.Eng. in Computer Software Engineering OAMK - Oulu January 2012 to May 2016 Skills JavaScript, Kotlin, Swift, Android, iOS, Backbone.js, jQuery, Svelte.js, Postgres, Mysql, Web development, Java, Scala, Node, Git, JIRA, Scrum, REST, CoffeeScript Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/sakarimursu