Internship Internship Cleveland, OH Work Experience Internship Cleveland State University - Cleveland, OH February 2018 to May 2018 • Developed coding for a software that could determine clusters of demographics in Cleveland using data from the previous census and that could be used in forecasting and city planning.  • Assisted in the development of mobile platform versions of the software that presented a dynamic interface for users to depict data using visuals and customized filters. Internship Urloop Inc - Cleveland, OH June 2017 to January 2018 •Planed and designed a social media application to fit a specific user base, an app written in Javascript that needed to be easy and simple to use to capture the attention of the user.  • Redesigned Urloop's web application to improve the workflow and program delivery tasks to make it a more efficient, fast and reliable platform. Web Developer - Professional Apprentice(TM) The Sherwin Williams Company - Cleveland, OH December 2013 to June 2014 • Developed and maintained web applications (Front-end).  • Coordinate deployments of web applications from development instance to testing (QA) and production instances. Web Engineer - Professional Apprentice(TM) The Sherwin Williams Company - Cleveland, OH June 2012 to December 2013 • Github • Configure, manage and administer Gomez account. Responsible for recording and • dynaTrace editing monitoring scripts, tuning the alert settings and deploying new monitors.  • Microsoft Office • Perform controlled deployments of application and website code to Development, QA and Production environments through Jenkins. Troubleshoot failed deployments and Plataforms: work with developers to resolve regressions.  • iOS • Android • Install, configure and support web applications/websites hosted on Linux and Windows • Macintosh platforms.  • Windows • Support and configure WebLogic application servers and Oracle iPlanet webservers.  • Unix/Linux (RedHat) • Perform administrative tasks with LDAP directory server to manage user access to • Solaris distinct websites.  • VMWare • Respond to alerts from monitoring systems like sitescope and dynaTrace. Troubleshoot • Oracle VM application issues causing alerts and communicate with clients.  • Train new junior and senior staff on systems, procedures and software used in the office.  • Write and maintain scripts to automate common tasks.