Helping a parent Helping a parent Business Analyst Willis, TX In my career, I worked as a software developer and wish to transition into Business Analyst role at a prestigious company such as yours.     Superb communication and presentation talents underscored 8 years’ experience in high levels of problem solving, in-depth training, critical thinking, data analysis, business strategy, and design implementation in in financial platform solutions. Work Experience Helping a parent Home - Willis, TX 2017 to Present I took a professional leave to attend to my mother. My brother passed away in 2017, causing a significant impact on her. Following his passing, I engaged in a variety of professional development opportunities to maintain credentials and volunteer roles to keep abreast of industry trends.    Professional Publications:   BABOK (V3):A GUIDE TO THE BUSINESS ANALYSIS BODY OF KNOWLEDGE   -- International Institute of Business Analysis (IIBA) Web Developer Cornerstone Lending Inc. - Houston, TX 2015 to 2016 Web Developer for home mortgage financing with 2,000 employees and $7 million in revenue.   • ·        Involved in web-based applications integrating TRID (TILA-RESPA Rule) standards during disclosure of end borrowers. This project increased performance of the loan process by 20% and increase annual revenue by $1 million. Software Developer ProfitStudios - Katy, TX 2007 to 2009 Software Developer in one of the leading providers in internet marketing tools.   • ·        Managed media distribution software by supporting business solutions for internet marketing tools. Project encompassed media uploader to multiple media web-based sites. Allows users to post videos to several web sites at once, reduced time posting by up to 65%. Programmer Analyst Fusion Labs, Inc - Dallas, TX Programmer Analyst (remote) for financial management software for non-profit organizations with 200 employees and $2.5 million in revenue.   ·        Spearheaded the project that allowed reduced navigation time by up to 45% and providing stakeholders an immediate overview of all financial accounts. Assignment involved redesigning the aesthetic feel for their non-profit financial management system (NPFMS).  ·        Developed and communicated new SQL control reports to track fiscal revenue from grants, scholarships, or proposals for data warehouse reporting. Allowing overall graphical reporting dashboard to show shareholders a snapshot of their financial investments. Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Management Information Systems Sam Houston State University - Huntsville, TX Skills DATA ANALYSIS, DATABASE, RELATIONAL DATABASE, SQL, BPR, LIFE CYCLE, SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT LIFE CYCLE, SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT, VISIO, DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM, TEST PLAN, UAT, EXCEL, MICROSOFT OFFICE, OUTLOOK, POWERPOINT, WORD, BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE, SME, TEST CASES, HTML, access, testing, MS Office, VLOOKUP (1 year), Pivot Tables (1 year), index matching (1 year), Charting (1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/samuelnaugle Additional Information Professional Skills  • ·        Gathered requirements from stakeholders and implemented product analysis  • ·        Created documentation for SME provided from Business Process Requirements (BPR)  • ·        Interacted extensively with various business groups, stakeholders, and users to develop the vision document that is aligned with corporate.  • ·        Expert in software development life cycle, including analysis, design, development, testing and implementation of software applications.  • ·        Excellent knowledge in with Agile methodology in a software-oriented environment  • ·        Provided cross department communication with Quality Assurance (QA) team to plan and test cases for User Acceptance Testing (UAT)     Technical Skills  • ·        Skilled in Excel (PIVOT, VLOOKUP, Index Matching, Chart Analysis)  • ·        Prepared business process models by using Visio to create case diagrams  • ·        Proficient in Microsoft Office (Word, Outlook, and PowerPoint)  • ·        Expert knowledge in relational database management system (SQL and MS Access)