Cloud Software Developer Cloud Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Cloud Software Developer - Manhattan Associates Marietta, GA Work Experience Cloud Software Developer Manhattan Associates May 2018 to Present Worked on cloud re-architecture of Manhattan's Transportation Management System. Used Java to build Spring applications with high upgradability and scalability while working in an agile team across multiple time zones.  ? Built and supported a framework in a solo effort that creates rolling availability time slots based on user input and then creates, removes, and queries utilizations of different types on those time slots accounting for maximum capacities and requested date. Worked with multiple teams as part of requirements gathering and adoption efforts. Web Application Developer Intern Genuine Parts Company May 2017 to August 2017 Developed a web application inventory cycle count solution in Visual Studio for business users. Worked on entire product life cycle including requirements gathering from the business side. Responsible for driving daily deployments to testing and development servers as well as leading all demos to internal team and business users.  ? Created a technical design document for the solution with rules documenting the security principles, database and system structures, and overall design rules and standards. IT Systems Developer Intern Siemens May 2016 to August 2016 Worked with head of internal IT audit team overseeing the western hemisphere of Siemens operations. Led a team tasked with fixing existing SAP system inadequacies in operations and updating the system rule sets for each of the 5 western regions of Siemens.  ? Helped to discover and fix an SAP system inadequacy that led to over $400,000 being stolen in fraud.  ? Built an audit dashboard for the executive team visualizing audit completion, pending, and failure numbers across Siemens worldwide. The dashboard intelligently reads and gathers from multiple spreadsheets in multiple databases and updates automatically. ASDL NEEC Directed Energy Weapon Researcher U.S. Navy May 2014 to August 2015 Researched the capabilities of directed energy weapons and collected data on existing weapon systems in the US and other foreign countries. Compiled this data and conducted feasibility studies on directed energy weapons.  ? Built a Matlab simulation with target geometry and motion, laser specifications, and the target's physical components used to test the effectiveness and compare the outcomes of directed energy and kinetic energy weapons in real world scenarios.  ? Presented classified research and project specifications to high ranking officials in navy bases and in the Pentagon. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Georgia Institute of Technology May 2018 Skills Java, Spring, C#, Git, Javascript, Angular.js, Swift, Matlab, Sap, Sql, Asp, Asp.net, Android, Assembly, Jenkins, Docker Links http://linkedin.com/in/michael-goodell Additional Information SKILLS    Java, Spring, Git, C#, SQL, D3, C, JavaScript, Kotlin, Assembly, SAP, ASP.net, Angular.js, Swift, Matlab, Android