Web Fulfillment / Packaging <span class="hl">Web</span> Fulfillment / Packaging Web Fulfillment / Packaging Stockton, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Fulfillment / Packaging TAP Plastics, Inc. - Stockton, CA June 2019 to Present Large scale plastics fabrication fulfillment center. Fast-paced multi-tasking environment.     First contact with customer. Guides customer through website, and payment options. Answers questions about plastic types / cuts / finishes. Walks customer through any crafting / mixing with items such as epoxy glue and acrylic cement.  Solves problems with order / shipping, and completes refund or replacement.   Accurate weighing and measuring. Web Developer Intern World Class Ads - Bayonne, NJ July 2019 to August 2019 **Unpaid Internship lasting just over a month. CSS concentration with minor HTML changes.**    This work was performed on a mostly-built website. The website contained many alignment issues, and lacked consistency throughout each webpage.   Firefox inspector was used to find issues and test solutions.  Final solutions were implemented through "Brackets" code program, and sent by Filezilla to the webmaster.  Work was completed 100% remotely. Service Coordinator America's Tire - Stockton, CA March 2018 to June 2019 Automotive shop specializing in wheels and tires. Top of the line maintenance work in a fast-paced  atmosphere.    Relocates and lifts vehicle. Checks paperwork and relays information to 3-man team. Supervises 3-man  team and assists as needed. Checks that work is done properly and efficiently. Contacts customer and  explains work done and future work needed. Brings vehicle to customer and has last contact before  moving to the next vehicle. Lead Screen Printer CRE8 Printing & Design - Stockton, CA 2016 to 2017 - Stockton, CA - 2016-2017  A mid-sized graphic design and apparel printing company, working to provide a crisp and clean product in a timely matter to local artists, clothing brands and other similar entities.    Lead Screen Printer  Prepares artwork precisely to set specifications and leads team of printers through all aspects of product  development. Follows through with checking quality and precision of each printed piece, while determining the best delivery methods and providing customer updated schedule information.    - Improved quality and speed of product development by encouraging others and continually assessing  machines, tools, and print methods.    - Sought out new and returning customers by providing finished samples and offering additional options  based on previous knowledge.    - Reduced excess spending and increased revenue by streamlining printing processess and researching  the best methods of purchasing supplies. Sign Maker Home Depot - Stockton, CA 2015 to 2016 - Stockton, CA - 2015-2016  A large company providing customers with opportunities to increase knowledge and a multitude of options for home-improvement.    Sign Maker / Advertiser  Assess signs for any damage or change in price/location. Record all changes needed and operate  quickly while maintaining precision and legibility.    - Increased sales by offering a clear understanding of products and keeping up to date on price  fluctuations. Screen Printer Jack's Printing - Stockton, CA 2014 to 2016 Stockton, CA - 2014-2016  Small print shop located in the heart of Stockton, providing customers the highest quality print services with quick turnaround.    Screen Printer  Took lead in all aspects of printing and job preparation. Repairs and maintains printing presses and work  stations. Hand checks each piece for quality assurance.    - Kept tight schedules and encouraged return customers by providing a welcoming environment and promoting a simplified experience.    - Maintained manual printing equipment and cleaning stations to reduce waste and ensure a quality  product. Education Fine Arts Academy of Art University - San Francisco, CA Skills Accurate Data Entry (5 years), Adobe Photoshop (8 years), Data Entry (5 years), graphic design (5 years), Inventory (5 years), Screen Printing (8 years), Customer Service (9 years), HTML5 (1 year), CSS3 (1 year), Inkscape Vector Imaging software (5 years), Packing, Shipping, CMS (6 years) Certifications/Licenses HTML/CSS TestDome Certificate June 2019 to Present This certifies that    Javier E Torres  designbytorres@gmail.com  has passed the following public test on Jun 2, 2019:    HTML/CSS, ranking in the Top 25%    TestDome is a provider of high-quality online screening tests for knowledge workers. TestDome uses work-sample testing methodology—candidates are checked through small samples of actual work.    VIEW CERTIFICATE HERE:  https://www.testdome.com/cert/dd0719a0db3f4bf59c7d54aeee337ae8 Assessments Call Center Customer Service — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to demonstrate customer service skills in a call center setting. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/5n2pk-znicaj7egr English Communication Skills: Typing — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively transcribe text using a standard keyboard. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/k2wgcfwc40q98mh7 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Proficient in Adobe Photoshop - Inkscape - Graphic Design - Vector images - Audio / Visual Support -  Accurate Data Entry / Inventory - Packaging