SEO Specialist SEO Specialist IT Specialist Oceanside, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SEO Specialist Mantra yoga & juice bar - Carlsbad, CA February 2019 to Present I help my clients webpage reach the highest google ranking as possible. I write blog articles and manage there websites contact and structure. App Developer Freelance/Self employed - Oceanside, CA January 2019 to Present I am currently working with private client to create a web app. I use objective c and swift to make this application. Freelance Web Designer/ Developer Freelance/Self employed - Oceanside, CA August 2017 to Present I create, design, manage and publish websites and web apps. Using text editors like sublime to create the markup like HTML. I use a css framework like SASS to make the site look appealing and I use javascript to make the website function and create interactive features. I mostly work with local businesses. Freelance Graphic Designer Freelance/Self employed - Oceanside, CA September 2016 to Present I create visually pleasing logos, brochures and design online advertisements using adobe photoshop, illustrator, and indesign. Sales Representative Vector Marketing - San Diego, CA June 2019 to August 2019 I worked with customers one on one in direct sales. I sold around $20,000 worth of kitchen knives and was recognized for my enthusiasm on the job. Courtesy Clerk Walgreens - Oceanside, CA December 2017 to August 2018 I helped customers find specific items, Organized and labeled products. I worked well with everyone there and am still visiting the store to visit my old co-workers. Education High school or equivalent El Camino High School - Oceanside, CA August 2016 to June 2019 Skills Desktop Support, Help Desk, Service Desk, Tech Support, Helpdesk Support, Photoshop (3 years), Illustrator (3 years), Linux (2 years), SQL (1 year), Wordpress (3 years), Ecommerce (2 years), SEO (1 year), Network Administration (Less than 1 year), Public Speaking (1 year), Organizational Leadership (4 years), Customer Service, Customer Support, MAC, Call Center, Active Directory, Comptia, WooCommerce (2 years), Visual Studio (3 years), Organizational Skills (4 years), Google Analytics (2 years), Typography (4 years), Communications (4 years) Links https://markmaya.org Assessments Search Engine Optimization — Familiar June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/sii0x4ku3cfat8kv Basic Computer Skills: PC — Familiar June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/93z4crzfhqeby42 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information I am also bi-lingual (spanish)