Research Assistant Research Assistant ASSOCIATE SOFTWARE ENGINEER Los Angeles, CA Actively seeking full-time opportunity in the Software Development & Engineering field with over 2.5 years of experience in software development, performance tuning, project management & Agile (Scrum) methodology. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Research Assistant University of Texas at Arlington June 2019 to Present   • Designing & developing a multi-linguistic Android application Asgardia, that registers, maintains user profiles with their contributions.    • Currently working on the smooth transition of an existing standalone database (SQLite) into a database hosted on the cloud by developing a REST API. ASSOCIATE SOFTWARE ENGINEER IBM INDIA Pvt Limited - Bengaluru, Karnataka March 2015 to July 2017 • Created automation scripts using Python to enhance the workflow of a delivery system and reduce the manual errors to meet SLA’s.  • Worked as a system operations specialist to identify, diagnose, resolve and report system issues and defects.    • Collaborated with key business stakeholders & IT partners on product strategies, roadmaps.    • Participated in the development and grooming of Project Backlog Stories (Requirements) with scrum master and planned sprint releases. WEB DEVELOPER INTERN INSPIRE INFOSOL - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2014 to February 2015   • Worked across the entire system architecture, from the backend to front end, for the development of high-quality products using Python.   • Assisted in design, implementation of an online e-commerce application and its enhanced features.   • Managed all the contents going in and out of the website - making to ensure, up to date, web-optimized contents are published.   • Implemented the web marketing strategy for the clients, covering channels like email, Facebook to increase user engagement. Education Master of Computer Science in Data Science and Database Systems University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX May 2019 Bachelor of Technology in Electrical and Electronics Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University May 2013 Skills PHP, MySQL, Android, Javascript, HTML 5, Git, Jquery, CSS, Git, HTML 5, CSS, Jquery, Python (2 years), flask (2 years), django (1 year), Tensorflow (Less than 1 year), Rest API (1 year), AWS (2 years), AZURE (2 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/hari-nakshatrala https://github.com/harihara0072 Certifications/Licenses Python Data Structures June 2019 to Present Android Development: Working With Databases Using Mysql & PHP August 2019 to Present Intro to TensorFlow by Google Cloud July 2019 to Present Machine Learning A-Z July 2019 to Present Complete Python Bootcamp April 2019 to Present pandas for Data Science April 2019 to Present Assessments Critical Thinking — Expert May 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/rvg-a-o3533bau38 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.