Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Data Scientist - Blue Cross Blue Shield Detroit, MI • Highly result-oriented, passionate about cutting-edge technology and solving real-world problems, presently working as Machine  Learning Engineer at Blue Cross Blue Shield, IT digital experience.  • A Computer Science graduate with 2+ years of experience as a software developer, web developer and machine learning engineer.  • Experienced as Web developer & Administrator at Texas A&M University, expertise in cascade servers, user interface and webpage designing.  • Well experienced in Machine Learning and developed many projects using Machine Learning and Computer Vision using Python and R.  • Experienced in enterprise software applications using Java and J2EE technologies including Inheritance, Interfaces, Multithreading, JDBC, JSP,  Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, XML, Web Services.  • Hands-on experience in usage of version controls such as Git, Stash and actively involved in Scrum Agile Software Development Methodology.  • Well command over Shell Script programming, Linux environment, DevOps and administration skills.  • Sound experience in code cleanup and writing for any code changes for enhancements/break fixes  • Extensive development experience on different IDE's like IntelliJ 12, Spyder and Eclipse  • Experience in using many tools like SCM Harvest, Putty, Cygwin, MobaXterm, Postman and Winscp  • Hands on experience in handling code deployments in all environments. Design and implement build, deployment, and configuration management.  • Able to quickly embrace innovative ideas and grasp new concepts quickly, efficiently, strong communication and interpersonal skills.  • Confident, articulate, highly adaptable, reliable, and professional speaking abilities and a great team player, motivated self-starter. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Blue Cross Blue Shield August 2018 to Present Project Name: SmartBot  Project Description:  SmartBot is an AI chatbot used by Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan (BCBSM) for registered members to view their claims, wellness and other health  related information. This application interacts with many other BCBSM internal applications using Web Services to gather members' information and to display user details and uses RASA Machine learning tool for Natural Language Understanding (NLU) and Natural Language Processing (NLP).  Responsibilities:  • Analyze and update the training data improved performance of chatbot machine learning model.    • Using NLU and NLP with RASA Machine learning for chatbot functionality, writing python scripts for analyzing data.    • Modify training data for better entity and intent recognition of the deep learning models.    • Build and release management using SCM workbench.    • Implementation of required DevOps operations. Web Developer and Administrator Texas A&M University February 2018 to May 2018 • In charge of developing web pages and publishing content.  • Managing content and maintaining Web design.  • Responsible for designing, coding and modifying websites, from layout to function according to client's requirement. Graduate Teaching Assistant Texas A&M University September 2017 to May 2018 • Deliver a range of teaching and assessment activities including tutorials at the graduate level.  • Assisting in faculty research projects; engage in literature searches.  • Involved in the development of new material for department courses and assignments correction.  Thesis  Effective Border Surveillance using Machine Learning in RVS System (https://github.com/shreedevi2510/ThreatLevelClassificationatBorders)  • Machine Learning techniques are introduced in Remote Video Surveillance (RVS) system for real-time threat level detection and classification of the targets, crossing borders to enhance the performance of RVS system.  • The threat level classifier performs four-fold categorization of the real-time video into - safe, low, medium, and high. This project is based on Viola- Jones object detection framework and developed in MATLAB. Machine Learning Intern Techno Samarthyam - Ahmedabad, Gujarat May 2017 to June 2017 • Work on large-scale machine learning algorithms - face recognition, people and objects detection, speech recognition, vehicle detection.  • Creation of prototypes and proofs of concept for different new algorithms - home layout recognition, daily schedule pattern analysis, etc.  • Collecting, filtering and finding patterns in training data sets. JAVA Developer JDOT Technologies PVT LTD - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2015 to July 2016 • Performed functional, non-functional testing and write test cases for key components in the project.  • Involved in analysis, design, implementation of website, database, testing and support of software products.  • Collecting the requirement from the external stakeholders and internal business team.  • Developed and established JUnit to Unit test the applications involving code reviews, code integration, and integration testing.  • Conducted performance optimization in JAVA/J2EE. Java Project Intern CloudHost Technologies Pvt. Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka September 2015 to November 2015 • Developed librarian and user interface using GreenStone software.  • Collecting, analyzing, designing, assigning and utilizing the metadata.  • Managing the collection, defining filters, assigning partitions/languages and enriching documents. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Texas A&M University May 2018 Bachelor of Engineering in Instrumentation Technology in Instrumentation Technology Dr. Ambedkar Institute of Technology - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2015 Skills database (1 year), J2EE. (1 year), JAVA (1 year), Machine learning (1 year), MATLAB. (Less than 1 year), Python, Linux, C, Git, Javascript, Git, CSS, HTML 5, Javascript Links https://linkedin.com/in/shreedevi-b-a-81633aa2 Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming Languages: Java/J2EE, Python, C/C++, MATLAB, shell scripting.  Machine Learning Tools: RASA Machine Learning, Object Detection Framework, TensorFlow, Kaggle, Kerras, Sci-Kit, Amazon Machine Learning.  Database: MongoDB, Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, Sybase Power Builder.  Tools: SCM Harvest, Putty, Cygwin, WinSCP, MobaXterm, XML, Json, Chatito.  Cloud Services: Amazon AWS, Microsoft Azure.  IDE: PyCharm, Jupyter Notebook, Spyder, IntelliJ, Eclipse, NetBeans, Android Studio, Visual Code.    Operating Systems: Windows, Unix, Linux