Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Coordinator Quincy, MA My professional career has experienced in two separates but often closely related tracks: IT Engineer and Web Developer. I am willing to relocate Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Massachusetts General Hospital - Boston, MA January 2017 to Present · Migrate Moodnetwork.org from Drupal 7 to Drupal 8  · Design and work MySQL databases for the new features and perform backend development.  · Create custom modules with Drupal and some front-end work with html/html5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, and JQuery.    · Implement backup and perform system maintenance on Centos Linux server by Shell.  · Develop test plan and test cases to support 8000 users.    · Achieve Selenium automated testing and load testing by using JMeter and optimize the web system.  · Be responsible for generating custom data exports of participant databy using R, Python, and PHP.  Education Master of Science in Computer Science UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS BOSTON - Boston, MA May 2017 Master of Science in Electrical Engineering NATIONAL TAIWAN UNIVERSITY OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY - New Taipei City, TW Bachelor of Science in Automatic Control Engineering FENG CHIA UNIVERSITY Skills PHP (5 years), MySQL (5 years), HTML/HTML5 (5 years), CSS/CSS3 (5 years), Javascript (2 years), JQuery (2 years), Drupal (2 years), Linux (5 years), HTML, HTML5 Additional Information To whom it may concern:    · Education background:  One Bachelor’s degree and two Master’s degrees: I received BS in Automatic Control Engineer at Feng Chia University in Taiwan from 2004 to 2008 and GPA is 3.9. The first MS in Electrical Engineer is National Taiwan University of Science and Technology in Taiwan from 2008 to 2011, and GPA is 3.8. Based on the requirement to receive MS degree, I finished the research thesis called “Peer-to- Peer Image Retrieval with Multiple Features ~ a research project based on the peer-to-peer content-based image retrieval system (P2P-CBIR). It is a proposal for a network image search engine that could not only adapt multiple features of images over multi-instances, but also create a new topology of network used to update the peer linking information between peers to reconfigure P2P-CBIR. The second MS in Computer Science at University of Massachusetts Boston from 2015 to 2017, and GPA is 3.8.    · Working Experiences:  My recent working experience is web coordinator at Dauten Family Center at Massachusetts General Hospital. I am responsible for website maintenance, refactoring, and implementation of new features under the direction of the DFC Technical Platform Architect. I created and maintain web surveys, research study related surveys, social/communication features, and other web-related projects. I also test and troubleshoot website features and behavior. This position is primarily back-end PHP programming, but some front-end work. The primarily job is work with Drupal, the framework used by the MoodNetwork web portal and create custom modules using PHP and design database structure for each new custom module. I am responsible for generating custom data exports of participant data, becoming familiar with and adhering to privacy restrictions and requirements. Furthermore, my recent duty is QA. I achieved them by Senelium, SimpleTest(unit test and functional test), manual test in order to check data accuracy, and load testing for network and server’s performance. I maintenance and troubleshooting Linux server, and also create own script to update Drupal Core and Linux OS as well as backup database.    To be more details. The one of projects I achieved is called Heathy Heart Healthy You. For this project, I work with Drupal 7, and mainly focus back-end with php, design database with php, data report and testing. Since most of app on MoodNetwork web portal is custom module, I am able to create custom module. For this project, I work with my colleague, Nicha Puvanicha, who is our main developer. I achieved CRUD with drupal layer database, and some advanced query are not using Drupal api. For example, if I have to do subquery or join a couple of tables, I always use db_query() and create my own query syntax. Next, for the database, because we always do custom module, we need tables to store the data. The design is based on the report requirements because this way is to try to reduce join lots of tables. It's also to increase the performance when making data report. Basically, it's to try to reduce loops. Furthermore, I achieved testing and load testing in order to support 8500 people. I used Selenium automated testing for the business logic, positive and negative testing for user behaviors, and SimpleTest for both unit test and functional test. The final is for manual test because of data accuracy. For the load testing, I achieve to accommodate 8000 people to our server. I used JMeter and BlazeMeter. These two app can send multi-thread at the same time or send out a period of time. For this app, our server can have 400 people and send out the request at the same time, and the response time is 3 seconds. Finally, I am also responsible for generating custom data exports of participant data by using R, PHP and Python.    In addition to my former career, my employment as an IT Engineer for different companies has enabled me to utilize my skills in troubleshooting, repairing, updating, and maintaining systems. Whether through formally studying software development and working on various research project, or assisting company owners with resolving any/all IT-related areas of concern that may be affecting their company’s ability to achieve its goals and/or run efficiently, I have consistently demonstrated the characteristics and skills required for success in software development: learning something new and upgrading myself    I am interested in exploring opportunities in software development. If you are seeking a lead-by-example team member who can make independent decisions, and be counted on to exceed established goals, you've just found your candidate.    Sincerely,    Kai-Lin Chang  enclosure