Lead Web Application Developer Lead <span class="hl">Web</span> Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Web Application Developer at Vusar Irvine, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Web Application Developer Vusar - Irvine, CA August 2018 to Present Vusar is a start up working towards building an immersive visualization tool for 3D CAD files, on the Android and iOS platforms)    • Lead the development of Vusar's website (https://dashboard.vusar.co), written in React JS.  • Worked with a team of 2 other web developers to launch the website within 2 months from starting from scratch.  • Integrated with Google Firebase to enable creating accounts, signing in, uploading 3D CAD files, and creating  teams within the website.  • Automated deployment from Github to Amazon AWS S3 bucket using CircleCI.  • Wrote python scripts that convert user uploaded files in various formats to file types required by the Vusar app. IT Intern State Street - Irvine, CA June 2018 to August 2018 • Served as the technical architect for a new web application for testing automation.  • Gathered all technical and functional requirements through communications with business analysts, developers, project managers, and offshore team members.  • Designed the process flow and SQL queries for the application.  • Created a complete requirements document for the application, including flowcharts, UI mockup diagrams, and queries.  • Presented the use cases, functionality and working of the web application to senior management and other interns.  • Developed front-end of the application, using React JS Dining Hall Attendant UCI Hospitality and Dining - Irvine, CA February 2017 to January 2018 • Prepared and served several types of food to around 500 students per shift with consistent quality and quantity.  • Provided excellent customer service through coordination with co-workers, managers and chefs Education Bachelor's in Computer Science University of California - Irvine, CA September 2016 to December 2019 Skills Javascript, Wordpress, HTML, React JS, Python, C++, CSS, Java, SQL, C, Linux, Shell scripting Additional Information PROJECTS     Sound Classifier -   Implemented a convolution based deep neural network using PyTorch to classify given audio clips into one of 41 different categories of everyday noises with 87% accuracy.    Search Engine -   Built a simple web crawler to create a search engine that returns the most relevant documents from a corpus of 37,500 documents, given a search input.    Simple GPS -   Created a simple GPS program to find the driving directions, time, and other details between two places, using MapQuest API.    Wumpus World AI -  A Python program that intelligently navigates a board of variable size to find the hidden gold, while avoiding pits and monsters.    Othello Game -   A Python application that allows two people to play Othello with modifiable game settings (board size, first player, and winning rules), using tkinter library for the GUI.    Book Management System -   Managed a team of three people to create a program in C++ to manage the stock of books in a book store.