Unarmed Security Guard Unarmed Security Guard Security Guard Cairo, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Unarmed Security Guard SOS Security October 2017 to June 2019 • Worked with office programs for writing reports and software used for displaying CCTV footage.  • Monitored several sites at once (including where I was stationed) via CCTV cameras for potential damage, hazards, and trespassing.  • Dispatched emergency services (e.g. fire, police) when necessary.  • Acted as a receptionist for oncoming interviewees and contractors; signing in/out, distributing badges, and performing escorts.  • Managed oncoming/outgoing mail and packages for employees and contractors; delivering them to their appropriate desks.  • Performed patrols throughout the interior and exterior of the building on foot; inspecting for damages, hazards, and unauthorized access.  • Offered help and advice for new officers during their first weeks.  • Took on over-time for officers taking vacations or unable to appear for work. Retail Employee Dollar Tree - Phoenix, AZ 2015 to 2017 • Station at the register; checking out customer products and handling money.  • Floor recovery; returning go-backs, cleaning messes, organizing store products on shelves.  • Stocking and freight; unloading and storing cases, stocking new items on shelves, refilling vending machines.  • Filling balloons and changing tanks.  • Assisting customers in answering questions and giving directions. Web Developer Tabula Rasa Group - Mesa, AZ 2015 to 2016 • Used the linux OS along with linux based software  • Databasing; developed scripts for querying information for websites (e.g. user profiles)  • Developed web pages using HTML, CSS, Javascript, ArangoJS  • Helped plan and use our own in-house features to streamlining development    This was a start-up web-development company a teacher from college was founding; he offered me a position. The company itself didn't make it past its few years, but we each got a lot of experience from it. Using operating systems we weren't used to, advanced techniques with using scripting languages, and working with clients. Education Bachelor's in Game Production Collins College - Tempe, AZ 2010 to 2014 Skills Time Management, Microsoft Word, Excel, Receptionist (2 years), Unarmed Security (2 years), Self Teaching Certifications/Licenses Security Guard