Sr.UI Developer Sr.UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer Atlanta, GA • 3+ years of experience in designing User Interface (UI) application and web development with good knowledge on HTML4/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, Object oriented JavaScript, DOM, jQuery, AngularJS, Angular 2-7, React JS, Redux, PHP, AJAX, XML, Bootstrap, Angular material 2, Node.JS, Backbone.JS, Redux, Mongo DB, AJAX, JSON technologies.  • Excellent Experience developing complex web page layouts with Rich UI and responsive design including various sections like headers, footers, content area, side bars and checked the cross-browser compatibility with various browsers like google Chrome, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Safari.  • Good Knowledge on WebEx UI library which can be easily integrated with Angular JS by using MVC frameworks and develop unstructured code and separation of data modules and securing the data with application security and testing process.  • Experience in developing mobile and desktop UI applications using new technologies like ECMA Script 5/6, React JS, Redux(RX), Angular2, TypeScript, CSS3 media queries, SASS, LESS, and implementing Model View Controllers(MVC), Single Page Applications(SPAs).  • Proficient to work with XML HTTP, AJAX, JSON serialization to communicate with SOAP /Restful web services and JSON data for storing and exchanging information to handle $http request and $http response from services.  • Worked closely with QA team performing Unit testing using Jasmine, karma to fix bugs and experience on Test Driven Development (TDD), Iterative and Incremental development, and Automate test using tools like Selenium, Junit, Lean FT, protractor.  • Knowledge on Build Tools Like Grunt, Gulp &Experience using NPM, NPM scripts, and Web pack, Bower to install and manage different packages.  • Strong working knowledge with servers in RDBMS technologies Oracle servers, SQL Server 2005/2008/2008R2/2012 Server, expertise using SQL, Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Functions and Worked on SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) 2008/2005 to deliver data conversion, ETL solutions, and customized data reports.  • Excellent Experience on JIRA, AGM for bug tracking, issue tracking, etc., and all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) which involves designing, developing, testing, implementation, and maintenance with Agile/SCRUM methodology and TDD, Waterfall method according to the requirements also performing code reviews to ensure quality standards.  • Self-motivated, able to work independently and in teams, can handle multiple projects while paying attention to details, accomplished problem solving and analytical skills to Collaborate with business analysts to define business requirements and ability to translate business requirements into technical requirements. Work Experience Sr.UI Developer Delta Air Lines, MN & GA February 2018 to July 2019 Project1: SNAPP Next Gen  Project2: Viper Delays  Roles & Responsibilities:  • Worked in an Agile- Scrum development methodology to ensure delivery of high quality work with monthly iteration, also involved in sprint planning and retrospectives  • Designed and created client UI layouts using, HTML, CSS, Object Oriented JavaScript concepts, Angular 7, Angular Material 2, Flex layout, Typescript, with BFF's and java API's as backend technology.  • Created Typescript reusable components like dropdown menu, search filters components, etc. and services to consume REST API's and BFF's using Component-based architecture and reusable templates with Angular 7 directives integrated with NPM package manager tools (Node JS).  • Used AMS light streamer to send live flight and passenger events to UI.  • User Ag-grid for light UI data rendering  • Used Node Package Manager for installing angular dependencies, typescript.  • Developer modules using Node JS and promises using async/await.  • Good knowledge on using Angular APIs like @angular/animate [Trigger animations operations within directives], @angular/resource [service to define restful API's and communicate with them, @angular/http [For making HTTP requests], @angular/common [Common core things including form validation], @angular/router [Routing for our entire app].  • Figma design tool to work along with UX teams closely for front-end development and creating the product with best user experience and quality.  • Used Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions and debug the application different in browser tools and Redux to check the different state mappings.  • Experience using CSS preprocessors such as Angular Material 2, kendo JS, and/or Compass and worked with front-end web frameworks (e.g. Bootstrap).  • Excellent knowledge in implementing AJAX method to communicate with a server.  • Responsible for managing the implementation of Adobe Analytics, including Adobe Dynamic Tag Manager (DTM) and integration  • Good understanding of SOAP and Restful web-services and customizing as per requirement.  • Designed the database using SQL server 2012 with SQL server management studio and create stored procedures for specific View Model.  • Highly proficient with debugger/testing tools performed unit Testing of developed prototype with Jasmine and Karma.  • Worked on increasing the performance of the application and Identified the way to increase the search engine optimization (SEO) and social media friendly Generating Dashboards & Reports for Traffic Analysis, Website Performance over the Globe & Scenario Analysis using Google Analytics.    Environment: CSS, HTML, HTML5, JAVASCRIPT(OOJS), jQuery, Bootstrap Angular 4 - 7, DOM, AMS Rest API's, NPM, Node JS, Jasmine, Visual Studio, Karma, TDD, IntelliJ, Agile methodology, Node, Grunt, JSON, SQL. Mobile UI Developer Kent State University June 2016 to December 2016 Project: KSU Project  Roles & Responsibilities:    • Involved in Agile software development lifecycle which involves designing, coding, testing, debugging and support.  • Designed Single page application using React JS, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JAVA/J2EE Technologies like JSP, JSF. Experience with J2EE design patterns such as Intercepting Filter, Front Controller, Business Delegate, and Data Access Object and used Spring Boot with Swagger UI which is radically faster in building Spring based application with minimal configuration.  • Creating new React components and containers from user stories and mockups, developed Client web application using Client web application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS, React.js, Redux, and Web pack.  • Developed product visions by researching, conceiving, wireframing, sketching, prototyping, user stories, user journeys, and mockups optimized and mocking up user experiences for digital products.  • Developed component for UX-Library consisted of Button, Checkbox, Input, Icons, Toggle Button, Dropdown, Multi-Level Dropdown and Card sorting and Site maps were used for the information architecture to improve our once complex navigation system into a simpler side-drawer  • Used BABEL along with ES6 to get best performance with REACT JS, working with Redux architecture using complex Object-Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Experience in developing applications using AngularJS, Bootstrap like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, Combo-Box and button etc.  • Node Package Manager (NPM) to manage the modules and used it to install useful tools such as Grunt, Express.  • Developer Application using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON, JSONP, and XML.  • Experienced in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) in PHP versed in PHP in order to write robust and re-usable code.  • Used Bootstrap and Angular UI for creating rich, Responsive UI Screens for varying screen sizes and devices.  • Extensive experience in using various design patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Session Facade, DAO, DTO, and Business Delegate in the development of Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise Applications.  • Good understanding of SOAP and RESTful web-services and customizing as per requirement.  • Responsible for coding Oracle SQL Statements, Stored procedures, functions and triggers for back end communication using JDBC.  • Developer webpages using Polymer components, Polymer JavaScript validation, iron ajax to hit microservices in form of GET and POST request, implemented toggle and collapse of html div using iron collapse, implemented on-tap, on-blur functionalities, implemented paper-dialogs to show alerts to user, implemented user management and role assignment to user.  • Highly proficient with debugger/testing tools: NUnit, Fiddler, and Jasmine and performed unit Testing of developed prototype with Jasmine and Karma.  • Strong Web Content Management experience with Adobe AEM / CQ5, implementing full cycle AEM projects, Adobe Dynamic Tag Management (DTM) and integration of AEM with Adobe Analytics and Adobe Target  • Used GIT for version control and Quality Center for defect tracking.  • Deployment management skills for deployment and environment management architecture and process creation and used Devops tool Chef, Puppet and Ansible in provisioning AWS machines. Unit tested complex methods and objects using Jasmine and coordinated with Developers and QA Testing Team regarding testing issues like setting up builds, issuing tickets, setting testing and Development  • Environment JIRA Sandboxes and test new plugins and add-ons to ensure compatibility and used JIRA for task assignment, bug tracking and fixture.  Environments: AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript(oojs), JQUERY, React JS, Web-pack, NodeJS, Visual Studio, Gulp, Karma, Jasmine, SOAP, REST, JSP, JSON, XML, Stash, GIT, Jenkins, JIRA, Source Tree, Fortify. Mobile UI Developer Key Bank - Cleveland, OH January 2015 to December 2015 Project: Loan Application System  Roles & Responsibilities:    • Worked in Agile Development and maintained good level of communication in team going through all phases of SDLC lifecycle  • Designed and developed Single Page Application (SPA)using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, React JS, Angular JS, JAVA/J2EE Technologies like JSP, JSF. Experience with J2EE which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Developed product visions by researching, conceiving, wireframing, sketching, prototyping, user stories, user journeys, and mockups optimized and mocking up user experiences for digital products and used UX-Library consisted of Button, Checkbox, Input, Icons, Toggle Button, Dropdown, Multi-Level Dropdown and many more.  • Experienced in React JS and working with React Flux architecture using complex Object-Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Used the Babel a JavaScript compiler to compile our ES6 code to ES5.  • Used methods to communicate with babel in transforming your JavaScript files converting our Es6 code to Es5 code.  • Node Package Manager(NPM) and the Node.js Engine in your development environment.  • Used Angular JS Http Request to read data from web servers and process JSON data to render in the UI.  • Comprehensive understanding of, NPM Node JS modules (HTTP, FS, Express, Grunt, Gulp) used GRUNT, BOWER for angular application scaffolding, grunt as build server and bower for dependency management and web storm as front-end IDE  • Used jQuery-Ajax plug-in to GET the data in JSON format and displayed on HTML page.  • Extensive experience in implementing model-view-controller (MVC) architecture using Angular Framework  • Extensively used CSS LESS/SASS as pre-processors which extend the properties of CSS.  • Performed Unit testing utilizing Jasmine and worked with variant control on GIT to manage  the code repository.  • Used NodeJS and API endpoint with NodeJS for developing client application.  • Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub and AWS AMI's, whenever a new github branch gets started, Jenkins, our Continuous Integration server, automatically attempts to build a new Docker container from it.  • The Docker container leverages Linux containers and has the AMI baked in. Converted our staging and Production environment from a handful AMI's to a single bare metal host running Docker.  • Good knowledge with comprehensive understanding of PHP, DRUPAL, worked on many Drupal based websites, custom module development and deployment during the curriculum.  • Deployment of new tag based technology (Adobe DTM) and migrating off existing Tealium Tag Management System for all of Madison Square Garden properties.  • Data to and From Run time configuration of MongoDB, Data Managements in MongoDB Capped Collections Expired data from TTL  • Performed configuration, deployment and support of cloud services including Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Expertise in creating reusable and configurable software components and strong knowledge on TDD, RESTful, ECMA, and worked on frameworks like Jasmine, Karma.  • Good understanding of SOAP and RESTful web-services and customizing as per requirement.  • Created complex JIRA work flows including project workflows, screen schemes, permission schemes and notification schemes in JIRA.  • Worked closely with SQA team in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.  Environment: HTML5, CSS 3, JavaScript(oojs), JSF, Karma, Jasmine, Ajax, JSON, jQuery, Ext JS, Node JS, React JS, Visual Studio, Bootstrap, JSP, SOAP, Eclipse, Junit, Agile Methodology. Web UI Developer Lotte - Bentonville, AR January 2014 to December 2014 Project: Retail Project  Responsibilities:  • Developed and designed front-end web application and implemented user interactive web pages professionally using web based technologies HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON, XML  • Strong experience using Ionic Framework for developing User Interface of mobile applications using Angular 1.4x and Angular 1.5 web pack  • Extensive experience in Internet, client/server technologies using JAVA, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, TIBCO, Web Services, SOA, EJB, JMS, XML, XSLT, JAXB, HTML, CSS, Java script, Ajax.  • Implemented latest HTML5 and CSS3 features like creating various effects, shadings, 2D/3D animations, shapes, handling multimedia files.  • Experienced in working with Redux architecture using complex Object-Oriented concepts in improving the performance and used React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, plus Redux, Animations and Flux concept.  • Responsible for React UI and architecture. Building components library, including Tree, Slide-View, and Table Grid.  • Involved in designing the user experience interface UI/UX strategy, UI requirements, converting findings into UI designs  • Extensively used jQuery, AJAX and DOM manipulation to create interactive web applications like message posting and auto complete form validations.  • Used Polymer components includes app-route, app-location various iron components - iron ajax, iron collapse, paper-dropdown, paper-dialog etc.  • Responsive user interface development includes application development on Component based approach of Polymer and Angular  • Developed backend web services using Node.JS and stored dependencies using NPM  • Expertise in creating reusable and configurable software components and strong knowledge on TDD, RESTful services.  • Used GIT Stash for maintaining the component and for release and version management.  • Used JASMINE to perform unit testing of custom filters, custom directives and various parts of Angular JS application  • Involved with functionality on bug fixing and designing issues and performance using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Involved in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation, Maintenance and extensive experience with Agile, SCRUM and sprint planning cycles.  Environment: JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Ajax, Angular JS, React JS, Bootstrap, HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, Agile methodology, PL/SQL, Dreamweaver, React JS, Usability Testing, Windows. SDLC Education Masters in Engineering Technology in Engineering Technology Kent State University Bachelors in Electronics and Communication in Electronics and Communication Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Skills Html, Javascript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, Json, Vs code, Svn, Xml, Html5, Eclipse, jquery, Ajax, Dreamweaver, Iis, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Bugzilla, Linux Additional Information Technical Skills:    Web technologies  Angular 2.0 -7.0, HTML4/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, JavaScript, DOM, jQuery, Angular.JS, AJAX, XML, Bootstrap, JSON, Express.JS, Backbone.JS, Node.JS, React.JS    Framework & Library Backbone.JS, Google Polymers, Angular.JS, jQuery frameworks, Angular material2  Debugging Tools Dev tools, Fiddler, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Flash, Bugzilla, Firebug  Frond End Tools CorelDraw, CS5, FrontPage Wire frame, Adobe Photoshop CS5, Image Ready CS5 Fireworks, Adobe Captivate 3  Operating systems Mac OS, Unix/Linux, Windows 95/ 98/2000, Windows 7, Windows 10  Web Servers Microsoft IIS (8.0/7.0/6.0)  Version Control Tools Team Foundation Server 2013/2010/2008, GitHub, SVN  Databases MySQL, Microsoft SQL, ORACLE 11g  Tools and IDEs Intelli J, Eclipse IDE, VS code, Net Beans, Edit plus, Notepad++, sublime text  Techniques Responsive design, Accessibility, Semantic html, Web Performance, Cross browser websites Unobtrusive JavaScript