Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Springville, UT Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer DevMountain Student Developers - Lehi, UT May 2019 to Present Recess    Recess is an app that was team developed. The whole idea behind Recess was to make an app that you could schedule, edit, and communicate a sporting event like pickup basketball, football, volleyball, etc. Responsibilities of the app were the messaging, design, and profile pages. ?    The technology used: React, Node.js, Express, React-Redux, React Player, PostgresSQL, Amazon S3, Google Domains, Google Maps API, Digital Ocean    All That Falls Music    This website was personally developed. The purpose of the website is to serve as a hub for All That Falls and give more detail about the band. It has a feed where admins can Create, Read, Update, and Delete posts. It has an "about the band" section along with details about gear that the band uses to get their sound. It also has a music player that plays the band's most recent album.    The technology used: React, Node.js, Express, React-Redux, React Player, Modals, PostgresSQL, Amazon S3, Google Domains, CSS in JS, Digital Ocean Gear Advisor Guitar Center/ Musicians Friend - Draper, UT October 2018 to May 2019 Daily utilization of Windows based OS.    Managed book of business while prospecting new clients daily on a windows computer and windows CRM.    Used extensive knowledge of musical equipment to find the best product to fit the client's budget.    Set up a rigorous follow-up schedule to ensure satisfaction from purchase to delivery to the stage.    Built rapport with clients to be their friend on the inside giving them the best price with the best customer service possible Customer Success Training Specialist CirclePix - Springville, UT April 2017 to January 2018 Trained, communicated, and helped existing clientele on how to use Circlepix SEO technology and implement it into their daily business.   Assisted with Optimizing client social media such as Facebook, Twitter, and Linkedin improving their SEO value. Store Manager Tradehome Shoes - Orem, UT February 2016 to April 2017 Hired and trained new and current staff to sell the Tradehome Way.   Made the weekly sales reports, put in payroll, order store supplies, and made the weekly schedule.   Responsible for making weekly and monthly sales goals while working open to close on most days.   Responsible for the maintenance and upkeep of the store.   Responsible for the store to store merchandise transferring and shipping the merchandise back to the home-office location. Education Web Development Certification in Computer Science DevMountain - Lehi, UT May 2019 to August 2019 Skills Salesforce (1 year), Excel (8 years), Word (8 years), Powerpoint (10+ years), Microsoft Office (8 years), Inside Sales (1 year), Zendesk (Less than 1 year), OMS (Less than 1 year), Hubspot (Less than 1 year), Javascript (1 year), HTML 5 (1 year), CSS3 (1 year), React.js (1 year), PostgresSQL (1 year), Express.js (1 year), MassiveDB (1 year), Git (1 year), GitHub (1 year), Slack (2 years), Redux (1 year), Postman (1 year), Amazon Web Services (1 year), Digital Ocean (1 year), Front End Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information References:  Jodi Jensen  District Manager of GoWireless  2086704455    Alfredo Castro  Assistant Manager GoWireless  2086704850    Josh Ruschen  Manager Tradehome Shoes  2083538099    Douglas "Dusty" Fisher  Burley High School Band and Choir Director  2086500731  Skills    InsideSales  Microsoft Word  Microsoft Power Point  Microsoft Excel  Guitarist  Bassist  Drummer  Pianist  Saxophonist  Benefit Concert Promotion  CPR Certified  Life Guard Certified  IDHW Food Safety Certified  People Person  Hard Working  Dependable