Creative Manager Creative Manager Visual Designer Sacramento, CA Creative, hard-working and personable with a blend of experience in education, technology and non-profit work. Tech-savvy and dedicated with a positive attitude and ability develop engaging and aesthetically pleasing designs. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Creative Manager Rocketship Public Schools January 2017 to February 2019 In charge of all things design including a complete rebrand, redesign of the website, production of all videos, marketing and print materials. Visual Designer Creative BSTRO - San Francisco, CA December 2015 to January 2017 Designed websites, banner ads, native apps, and in-house photography for clients with household names such as: Johnson and Johnson, Neutrogena, Splenda and Lactaid. Freelance Web Developer & Designer Mollydcarr.com November 2014 to December 2015 Web content & re-designs as well as full construction of sites from wireframes to completion. Curriculum Design & Development Samaschool - San Francisco, CA May 2015 to September 2015 Conducted research on online work platforms and designed web pages, UI interface and curriculum for adult education using edtech tools. Student Web Developer Rocket Space - San Francisco, CA September 2014 to November 2014 Created and deployed web apps, participated in hackathons and redesigned landing pages for local startups. Education Bachelor of Arts in Social Sciences and Women's Studies Portland State University - Portland, OR 2012 Associate of Arts degree City College of San Francisco - San Francisco, CA 2008 Spanish Language and Literature LA ENA - Havana, Cuba 2008 Skills Video Production, Project Management, Visual Design, HTML + CSS, Adobe Creative Suite, UX + UI, Bi-lingual (Spanish/English), Organizational Skills, Marketing, Photoshop, Adobe, Illustrator, Photography Links http://www.mollydcarr.com Additional Information KEY COMPETENCIES    Creativity and imagination. Adaptability and ability to quickly pick up new techniques.     Can provide innovative ideas and solutions to problems.     Ability to juggle priorities and multiple projects.    Communication and interpersonal skills.