Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Lehi, UT I'm a web developer looking to leverage my skills at a great company. I’m enthusiastic and hardworking, I am always looking to learn something new. I would love to be a great addition to your team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer In Transition July 2019 to Present Tech skills  • React  • Javascript  • Css  • HTML  • Node  • Postgresql  • MongoDb  • Massive  • Mongoose  • Redux  • Passport  • NodeMailer Metal Bender SAC INC. - West Jordan, UT May 2019 to Present Using teamwork to achieve all quotas and deadlines while maintaining exceptional quality. Junior Partner Ray's Construction, Park City March 2015 to Present Maintaining great relationships with customers and always doing the highest quality of work. Up-selling when appropriate along with keeping supplies in stock and doing a host of different construction related tasks at the highest level while maintaining a good attitude. Student Developer DevMountain Student Developers - Lehi, UT January 2019 to July 2019 Learning new technologies in a team environment and implementing those skills intelligently to create web applications. Web Developer DEVMOUNTAIN - Lehi, UT January 2019 to July 2019 Quizzard - Team developed  • React.js  • Redux  • MongoDb  • Node.js  • NodeMailer  • Sass    Quizzard is a web app made in React.js, capable of creating and taking quizzes and surveys, and sending the results via email. It is quick and easy to use for the quiz-taker and intuitive and simple for the quiz creator with many options to create a host of different quizzes or surveys. Web Developer DEVMOUNTAIN - Lehi, UT January 2019 to July 2019 Commentr - Personally developed  • React  • Node  • Postgresql  • Redux  • Express  • Passport  • Sass  • Bulma  • Massive  • Bcrypt    Commentr is a commenting platform that is usable with any media platform. It generates a link to create your own personal comment forum to replace or complement whatever commenting system is already in place. Education Vocational in Web Development DevMountain - Lehi, UT January 2019 to July 2019 Skills React.js, Javascript, HTML, CSS, PostgresSQL, MongoDb, Sass, Node, Express, Redux, Mongoose, Passport.js, RESTful, Front End, HTML5 Links https://github.com/Jmray https://www.linkedin.com/in/justusray/ Certifications/Licenses Driver's License