Consulting/Contract - Web Developer Consulting/Contract - <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Ben Lomond, CA To design and develop cutting edge solutions while providing excellent service Work Experience Consulting/Contract - Web Developer Self November 2018 to Present As a consultant for an early phase startup I’m constructing a PHP based e-commerce platform with MVC  architecture. It’s a completely custom flexible framework that can be redesigned into multiple brands  quickly while maintaining a central database to keep track of inventory across all future brands. My  technology stack of choice for this project was PHP using PDO, JavaScript and Nginx. I chose to use  PDO with prepared statements along with UTF-8 character encoding to build a robust and secure system,  while protecting against cross site scripting attacks and SQL injection. I’m utilizing Ajax for a real time  inventory tracking system that was required due to the businesses unique product distribution practices.  The cart system utilizes a custom Stripe integration for payment processing. This helps the client keep  payment processing information secure and off their personal servers while ensuring PCI compliance. I  used Stripe checkout and Stripe PHP libraries to accomplish this.  A full administrative panel was required for quick and intuitive business management. This allows the  client to manage their stock as well as add and update new products. A notifications database keeps track  of customers who want out of stock items. Once the product is back in stock the client can notify all  customers with a one click email blast button. SEO tools are also available for instantaneous adaptation to  changes in the market.  The framework is designed to be swiftly re-branded using HTML and CSS. I worked closely with the  system administrator who developed a deployment script so that each time a new brand is launched the  deployment will be full automated. Web Developer Halvik Defense Language Institute September 2017 to September 2018 At the Defense Language Institute I worked with the GLOSS team to develop and modernize web based   language learning templates for graduate level Armed Forces training used across all branches of the   military. Working within a custom built framework I created reusable library functions, programmed the   logic for over 20 interactive learning templates, fixed many bugs, and modernized outdated framework   functionality using JavaScript / Jquery, CSS, HTML, and XML.   Working with an aging custom built framework presented a unique set of challenges. The GLOSS   framework was forked from another training program, because of that there was a lot of unnecessary   functionality. First I had to audit the code and document how the framework functioned. I was then able to   identify problem areas and plan solutions. I had to extensively test my improvements to ensure backwards   compatibility and edge cases were accounted for.   I also added accessibility features such as dynamic text resizing based on monitor pixel density and user   input. I designed a user analytics and lesson tracking program which required me to design relational   database architecture. The analytics platform is a stand alone program that requires secure data exchange   between many different websites running different technology stacks. The administrators receive   comprehensive metrics on user activity providing them with the data they need to improve their program   and adapt to user’s needs. Web Developer/Systems Integrator South Town Arcade - San Francisco, CA September 2015 to September 2017 At SouthTown I had the opportunity to start my professional career as a web developer. I began my   employment as the business was building momentum and there were many challenges to overcome. For   example, they lacked an online system for keeping track of tournaments and player scores. I built a   Wordpress website that would allow them to stream live tournaments via the twitch API and record   tournament data to be displayed on their leader board.   Over time the tournaments grew and many customizations were required in order to keep track of tourney   brackets and game specific information. I also provided hardware integration and network support to   ensure a smooth experience for streaming tournaments. Using a combination of all my skills I developed a    web based system that was extremely easy for non technical users to work with. Working directly with the   business owners, I created an online registration process to allow people to sign up for tournaments. I also   managed the day to day updates and maintenance of their website including posting clips of highlights,   and information on tournament schedules. Skills Javascript (2 years), PHP (2 years), MySQL (2 years), CSS3 (2 years), Front End, Wordpress, HTML5, Jquery Assessments Search Engine Optimization — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/v7-duo7lmf-z-2b Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.