Web Application Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> A Web Developer who strives to design, code and modify visually appealing websites Greenville, SC I am a self-taught Web Developer eager to use my experience and potential to support the next major revolution. I would love to get my hands dirty in figuring out some better solutions to problems.    In 2010, I started playing around with programming languages. Back then it was a hobby something I just used to organize my daily activities with HTML and CSS animations.    Since 2015, I have been building web applications and services using JavaScript related technologies such as NodeJS, Express, ReactJS, Redux, Webpack, Babel, ES6, MongoDB, MySQL, Jenkins, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, etc. along with front-end technologies (HTML, CSS, Bootstrap).    Although JavaScript is my first love, I would also consider perfecting my Python skills and learning Blockchain technology, since I have always enjoyed learning new things. Moreover, Google and Stack Overflow are my best teachers.     I have passion for web development and would love to contribute to open source projects available in Git community. My goal is to build web components which make people's life easier. You can check my portfolio at https://adithyamaheshb.github.io/    I love making new professional connections. You can reach me at adithyamaheshbariki@gmail.com or (408)-656-7994. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Application Developer DECIDE4ACTION - Greenville, SC July 2018 to Present • Developed cross-platform web applications using React, Redux, jQuery in both Node and .NET Core environments  • Used TypeScript for maintaining code integrity and organization  • Responsible for designing overall architecture of the web application/li>  • Maintained responsiveness of the applications using Bootstrap, CSS Flexbox and media queries  • Used Entity Framework Core and Stored procedures to communicate with SQL Server  • Experience in using 3rd party frameworks/libraries and API’s in improving the efficiency and performance of the web applications Web Developer Charter Temps March 2017 to June 2018 The application allows Charter Schools in US to request substitute teachers. Besides that, teachers who are available to fulfill substitute requests can submit their profiles to schools     Responsibilities:  • Built user interfaces by creating re-usable React components.  • Created responsive UI using Bootstrap.  • Used Webpack to run build tasks such as bundling and minification.  • Used AWS to host the application.  • Used Jenkins to run integration steps and AWS Code Deploy for deployments (Post-Build action). Junior Web Developer VPAY7 - Mahboobnagar, Telangana January 2015 to October 2015 • Developed compliant HTML, CSS and JavaScript that met technical requirements and strategy planning standards  • Gathered and refined specifications and requirements based on technical needs  • Provided support and troubleshooting for employees on business systems  • Identified bottlenecks and bugs, and devised solutions to these problems  • Created and maintained software documentation  • Responsible for maintaining, expanding, and scaling website  • Reviewed and integrated interactive features into existing web applications  • Designed templates and database systems  • Tested and deployed web applications Education Master of Science in Computer Science Midwestern State University - Wichita Falls, TX August 2017 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2015 Skills Node.js (3 years), React.js (2 years), HTML 5 (5 years), CSS 3 (5 years), JavaScript (4 years), UI, React, Front-End, NET, C#, HTML, Typescript (Less than 1 year), AWS, Node, Nodejs Links https://github.com/adithymaheshb https://linkedin.com/in/adithyamaheshbariki Awards Graduate Merit Scholarship 2016-01 Awarded by Department of Computer Science, Midwestern State University International Student Services Scholarship 2016-01 Awarded by ISS, MWSU