Graduate Research Assistant Graduate Research Assistant Software Engineer Minneapolis, MN Masters Graduate in Computer Engineering focussed on developing techniques and technologies for securing software in all fields. Currently working on building security in Autonomous Vehicle Software.  Experienced in software development, web application development, building secure software for autonomous vehicles and adding security functionalities to existing software. Strengths include establishing synergy in diverse teams and assessing risks and root cause analysis of software security breaches.   My primary interest areas include Security Software Development and I am seeking full-time opportunities in the field of Cyber Security or Software development.  Skills : Java, C++, Python, JavaScript, Object Oriented Programming, Docker, Agile, Code analysis, program analysis techniques and tools, Agile, Software Project management techniques and Algorithms, TCP/IP protocols, Threat Modeling, Risk Assessment, Penetration Testing. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Graduate Research Assistant Iowa State University January 2018 to Present • Conducted two years of research on Master's Thesis: Automated Threat modeling for Autonomous Vehicle Software.  • Devised security mechanisms and security tests for a widely used open-source autonomous vehicle software(Apollo Auto).  • Implemented automation to improve threat modeling by 30% in autonomous vehicles (Expertise: Docker, automation, Java programming).  • Created an automated identification system of security vulnerabilities in Open source software (Expertise: LLVM, Soot).  • Designed Web Network and implemented it to full functions to perform penetration testing and network analysis on self and peer networks.(Expertise: TCP/IP, VMware Sphere, Computer Networks, Penetration Testing, Kali Linux)  • Designed and Developed an Eclipse plugin to provide visual feedback to developers for various software security cases which saves the time and cost of reviewing incremental software changes by 80%. (Expertise: OWASP top ten, Java, IBM WALA).  • Led assignments and assisted in designing course recitations as a teaching assistant for 150 students enrolled in software courses of SE 329 Software Management Practices and SE 339 Software Architecture.  • Created an eclipse plugin to detect code changes and reflect software security vulnerabilities added due to code changes. Funded by John Deere.  • Implemented network and set it up to fully functional network for penetration testing and network analysis. Web Developer Iowa Department of Transportation(DOT) September 2017 to December 2017 • Developed web application for automation of "Adopt a highway"(https://iowadot.gov/maintenance/Adopt-A- Highway-information) to reduce the paper processes by 100% (Expertise: Asp.net, vb.net, C#).  • Boosted efficiency of databases by re-architecturing of data warehouse by 20%. (Expertise: Oracle). System Engineer Siemens Healthcare Private Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka September 2016 to June 2017 • Delivered solutions and functionalities to MRI and CT scan products (Expertise: C#)  • Designed and Deployed a web application "Talk2Us" for Siemens Intranet Grievance Redressal Tool (Expertise:Asp.net, Bootstrap). Education M.S. in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Iowa State University August 2017 to June 2019 MBA in Marketing Mody University B.S. in Computer Science in Information Security Mody University Skills PHP, Javascript, Git, HTML 5, ASP, CSS Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/shifakhan4892