Tactical Remote Engineer Tactical Remote Engineer Network Coordinator Louisville, KY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Tactical Remote Engineer NetGain Technologies - Lexington, KY December 2018 to Present I provide tier 1 support to clients to facilitate their IT needs. These client environments have various versions of Windows Server ranging from 2008 to 2016. I also provide network support for client who are experiencing outages by verifying the status of switches and routers as the first means of troubleshooting. Many of these clients use VMWare to host their servers, which allows me to process requests to grant more memory to hosts, expand drives or add cores when approved.    Job Duties:  1. AD management  2. New user setups/user terminations  3. Network monitoring  4. Exchange monitoring  5. Software maintenance/patching  6. VMWare management and monitoring IT Intern Perry County Fiscal Court - Hazard, KY March 2018 to May 2018 • Troubleshooting software and hardware issues for employees in the courthouse  • Provided troubleshooting assistance for PFSense located in E911  • Performed product research for future hardware extensions for the courthouse network  • Provided support to the jail administrators to assist the IT manager in balancing duties and locations Web Developer The Pentecostals of Manchester - Manchester, KY June 2016 to July 2017 • Developed a website for 30+ people to share church event schedules, suggestions, and contact information  • Oversaw the pricing and budgeting allocated to purchasing the domain and hosting the website  • Reported to the church board of directors to justify costs and packages Night Auditor Holiday Inn Express - Hazard, KY June 2013 to February 2014 • Provided customer service such as enrolling guests in IHG Rewards and making follow up reservations  • Calculated daily, monthly, and yearly earnings through MS Excel  • Trained new employees on night auditor duties Education Bachelor of Science in Network Security and Electronics in LANs and PC Communication Eastern Kentucky University - Richmond, KY December 2018 Skills WINDOWS 7, MS WINDOWS 7, WINDOWS SERVER 2012, CSS, Cisco, Active Directory, Exchange, Vmware, Networking, VPN, DNS, LAN, security, firewalls Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/john-strong Certifications/Licenses CCENT November 2018 to April 2022 Cisco Certified Entry Networking Technician CCNA Security April 2019 to April 2022 This certification validates the skills required of associate-level network professionals to develop a security infrastructure, recognize threats and vulnerabilities to networks and mitigate security threats. Assessments Technical Support — Expert May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dnbzejsg-f6vdw-g Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills and Certifications    • CCNA Security  • Windows Server 2008+  • Linux  • CCENT (2018)  • Network Hardening  • MS Access  • HTML5  • CSS  • MS Windows 7+  • MS Office