Software and Web Developer & Content Management Specialist Software and <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> &amp; Content Management Specialist Software and Web Developer & Content Management Specialist - Quotient Inc Laurel, MD Work Experience Software and Web Developer & Content Management Specialist Quotient Inc - Columbia, MD June 2017 to Present Smithsonian Institution - National Museum of the American Indian  • Created several learning modules and case studies for NMAI's Native Knowledge 360° interactive teaching resources: https://americanindian.si.edu/nk360.  • Maintained an AWS IIS server with all developed sites hosted on it.  • Utilized Git to maintain version control for each learning module.    Smithsonian Institution - Enterprise Digital Asset Network  • Developed a Drupal document repository containing functional and technical details about Enterprise Digital Asset Network (EDAN) utilizing Drupal, HTML, CSS and PHP. EDAN is Smithsonian's digital repository of records from every branch of the SI infrastructure.  • Created curated object groups within Drupal that assisted the Smithsonian Institution's Office of Systems Modernization's Libraries Archives Systems Support Branch (LASSB) to showcase specific galleries. Located at: http://collections.si.edu/search/gallery.htm    Smithsonian Institution - Digitization Program Office  • Built 3D models hosted within https://3d.si.edu/, and implemented articles each models using HTML, providing the groundwork to migrate thousands of models to a new repository.  • Utilized Drupal back-end to store all content associated with a model within EDAN.  • Designed agile workflows for within JIRA utilizing JavaScript plugins.    Smithsonian Institution Travelling Exhibition Service - Apollo 11 3D Interactive  • Successfully created five kiosks for Travelling Exhibition Service by updating internal Windows scripts, using a locally hosted server, and changing Google Chrome settings to host large 3D models within a Drupal site.  • Completed, quality tested, and delivered to client specifications within a time-sensitive window.  • Provide remote technical support for digital travelling exhibitions/kiosks.    NIH Clinical Center  • Set up SFTP server that houses large documents for development requests from stakeholders.  • Developed and maintained an index of doctors for the Clinical Center. The index and doctor biosketch pages include HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, and jQuery development.  • The biosketch pages are implemented into a Percussion template that can be used to create and update pages about all doctors: https://cc.nih.gov/meet-our-doctors/index.html.  • Provided client and stakeholder support of web content updates for Clinical Center divisions including OCMR, BTRIS, CRIS and Bioethics.  • Managed and maintained the agile development workflow of incoming web content update requests including triage support using FogBugz.  • Assisted in the development and implementation of Section 508 compliance and remediation plans, and implemented a sitewide font increase for better user experience  • Configured and provided monthly reports using Clicky and Google Analytics.  • Assisted in training NIH CC stakeholders to use custom components within Percussion.    National Assessment Governing Board  • Content Manager and Developer for the National Assessment Governing Board (NAGB) using Adobe Experience Manager content management system.  • Utilized HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery to constantly develop new pages and modules for pages within AEM.  • Utilized AEM, FogBugz, and Clicky for daily implementation and analysis.  • Managed the agile workflow of incoming web content update requests including triage support.  • Works closely with NAGB stakeholders to develop and guide web content for daily and special projects for https://nagb.gov/.    Quotient Infrastructure Support  • Configured remote workstations to host Drupal and Java applications offline for a customer demo.  • Served as ISO Auditor for the company in advance of annual ISO 9001 and 20000 recertification.  • Maintained the Quotient website using Drupal and AEM, using HTML, CSS, and PHP.  • Helped create/design Quotient, Inc. microsite for DurpalGovCon 2017.  • Managed and updated internal servers, virtual servers, and workstations.  • Implemented new server infrastructure including KVM units, a tape library, QEMU, and routers.  • Provided hardware and software inventory control for Quotient licensed products.  • Provided internal network infrastructure and architecture support. Promotions Staff Mel Wheeler Inc - Roanoke, VA 2015 to 2017 • Developed HTML within WordPress for webpages showcasing interns of the K92 morning show.  • Worked with the analytics department managing stakeholder traffic to understand their data and define an optimal strategy for commercial break structure.  • Supported development of audio advertisements designed using Adobe Audition.  • Worked with local businesses to expand their marketing plans by designing radio commercials and managing promotions on location.    Independent Design and Development 2011 - 2017  • Developed applications using C++ in Microsoft Visual Studios that process and display data.  • Designed and built digital portfolio using Adobe Dreamweaver and Microsoft Visual Studios.  • Developed informational and marketing documents for a small business with Adobe InDesign.  • Designed logos for clothing and collateral materials. Education Bachelor of Science in Digital Marketing and Advertisements Liberty University - Lynchburg, VA May 2017 Skills C++, JAVASCRIPT, PHP, XML, CSS, HTML5, LINUX, SQL, SPSS, WORDPRESS, LESS, Drupal, Adobe Certifications/Licenses Secret Clearance July 2019 Public Trust February 2018