Lead Developer Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span> Application Programmer & Project Manager Charlottesville, VA Application programmer with multiple successful projects and leadership experience who enjoys both building and helping shape projects. Skilled at clearly communicating technical information, anticipating and solving challenges, and critically analyzing product designs. Dedicated to producing clean, well-documented code. Teamwork and project management skills honed by several long-term projects both in school and in business, with a love for new challenges. Work Experience Lead Developer Roam October 2017 to March 2019 Helped found this startup as its lead programmer. Worked with non-technical co-founders to develop product concept and apply for venture capital. Developed a front-end app in React Native, and a back-end REST API in Python using Django and deployed using Amazon Web Services. Brought a disciplined approach to project management, testing, and documentation to the company, ensuring that it will be ready to successfully on-board new talent when the time comes to expand. IT Intern CB Fleet - Lynchburg, VA May 2015 to July 2016 (Summers 2015 & 2016)  Led two other interns to replace all company computers, working with employees to transfer their data and programs quickly for a seamless transition, minimizing loss of productive time. Trained other interns in accomplishing the above, and communicated with users to ensure they had a comfortable experience. Webmaster Cavalier Marching Band - Charlottesville, VA April 2013 to May 2016 Migrated the UVA marching band’s website from Joomla to Wordpress, developing a more usable site management system that reduced the time needed to train the band’s rotating student staff. Managed and trained a team of six junior webmasters. Expanded site to assist with fundraising efforts for the band’s Macy’s Parade performance. Web Design and Development Intern ArcheMedX - Charlottesville, VA May 2013 to August 2014 (Summers 2013 & 2014)  Helped design and implement an online-learning product interface, incorporating research on effective pedagogical practices. Developed front-end interface components using JavaScript and Ruby on Rails. Additionally, developed pages and content for a Wordpress-based marketing site that helped ArcheMedX secure its first customers. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science University of Virginia - Charlottesville, VA August 2012 to May 2020 High school or equivalent Central Virginia Governor's School - Lynchburg, VA August 2010 to May 2012 Skills MySQL (Less than 1 year), Javascript (4 years), PostgresSQL (2 years), React (1 year), Python (6 years), Django (3 years), CSS (4 years), HTML 5 (4 years), Git (6 years) Assessments Critical Thinking — Expert April 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vhedmkxloonm3zbv Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.