Photographer Photographer Web Developer, Digital Marketing Hyattsville, MD Innovative, creative and highly skilled web developer with 6+ years of experience in website design, content development and dynamic photography. Extensive training and expertise in hand-coding dynamic, responsive and user friendly landing pages, launching, designing and distributing complex email campaigns. Motivated to shooting high quality photographs and video content to create rich, exclusive campaign and advertising content. In-depth knowledge in marketing, digital media and web design with the eagerness to expand creativity, craft and company’s vision. In addition to web development, others skills include webmaster, managing, digital and data assets and adaptability.    Results-oriented professional launching multifaceted, content-driven campaigns and providing long term solutions to various issues. Skilled at creating quality campaigns, while measuring open and click rates. Work Experience Photographer The Washington Informer - Washington, DC September 2018 to Present Metro Area  Sports photographer for a local newspaper with a circulation of 50,000.  Photography contributor to the WI Bridge, a secondary newspaper  released monthly highlighting influential people, local events and businesses located in the surrounding Washington, D.C. metro area. Freelancer photographer and digital artist Off Garde / Digital Marketing (Freelance) - Washington, DC January 2018 to Present High resolution and rich  quality imagery. Photographing highlights from the nightlife events  presented by W&T and A1 Events. Creates marketing assets from the taken photos to be used as promotional material for posting on social  media. Web Developer & Graphic Designer Pivot Media - Beltsville, MD September 2014 to Present Design and develop product, event, service and opportunity promotional  emails/landing pages for various business clients in the telecommunication and broadband industry. Develop websites and  landing pages with email sign up and downloading capabilities for white  papers, infographics and webinars. Campaign set up, design, code, testing and monitoring with various email clients. Distribute 2-3 mass email  blasts weekly to over 15,000 users. Daily content update to company  blogs in CMS and hand-coded websites. Created digital marketing assets.    ? Web Developer & Designer Inovalon - Bowie, MD December 2017 to March 2019 Hand-coded over 2,000 responsive design emails to render across multiple email and browsing platforms and device screens accompanied  by dynamic assets and landing pages. Updated syntax established in email templates for press releases, internal communications and  conferences to be viewable on mobile phones and Microsoft Outlook  compliant. Managed digital assets and email analytics. Tech Ed Instructor Luma Labs - Washington, DC June 2017 to August 2017 Responsible for educating 20-30 students from 6th to 8th grade  students new technology & design tools such as Scratch and Canva.  Provides instruction to students through the creation process of a mobile  application using the Wix landing page and website. Taught students how to create wireframes and navigate HTML using Code Academy learning. Education High school or equivalent Skills MARKETING (6 years), SEO, WEB DESIGN (6 years), HTML (6 years), BOOTSTRAP, Adobe (8 years), Adobe Premiere (3 years), After Effects (1 year), Lightroom (8 years), Photography (2 years), Photoshop (8 years), Video Production (2 years), Powerpoint, Graphic Design, Adobe Photoshop Links http://www.OffGarde.com Additional Information Skills ? Photography & Digital Editing  ? Graphic & Web Design  ? HTML, HTML Email, PHP, CSS, JS/JQUERY, SASS, MJML,  Responsive design/Bootstrap  ? MYSQL/SQL, phpMyadmin  ? Adobe Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Fireworks, Illustrator,  Lightroom, InDesign, Fireworks, Premiere, Acrobat, Final Cut  Video Editing  ? Eloqua Marketing System (by Oracle), Wordpress, Drupal  ? Debugging, SEO & Analysis, Webmaster    ?