Front-end Engineer Front-end Engineer Front-end Engineer - Wipro Digital Brooklyn, NY Work Experience Front-end Engineer Wipro Digital - Brooklyn, NY November 2018 to Present A member of a software engineering consultancy, delivering software using Agile methodologies to create sustainable and scalable software platforms. Core toolset: JavaScript, React.js, Redux, Git, VS Code  ? Created an internal recruiting software platform using Agile methodologies, React.js, Redux/Saga, AWS, Bootstrap, Jest/Enzyme, Git, and NodeJS to aid in company recruitment  ? Designed and implemented an internal software platform using Agile methodologies, React.js. and Git to allow people to register  and create classes to better than knowledge base and teach others within the company. Junior Web Developer Independence Blue Cross - Philadelphia, PA August 2014 to August 2015 A member of the software engineering team responsible for development and operations of the Independence Blue Cross web  application, mobile application, and internal web portal. Core toolset: JavaScript, jQuery, Java, Eclipse IDE, Kony Visualizer, Kony AppPlatform.  ? Designed layout, implemented requirements using javascript, created "Blue Button" page and functionality -- displaying user's  health information including: hospital visits, tests, medications, diagnostic imaging, outpatient procedures, conditions, among others. Used Ajax calls using JSON format to get user's health information from RESTful API services.  ? Co-developed provider finder, displaying and mapping applicable providers based on insurance policy in geographic area using  Java and JQuery, using Eclipse IDE. Used Ajax calls using JSON format to get user's health information from RESTful API  services.  ? Created application to print pdf summary of their health information using javascript, interfacing with RESTful Highmark  services. Professional Intern Pittsburgh Paint and Glass Industries - Pittsburgh, PA May 2013 to August 2013 A member of the Collision Services software team responsible for paint services and paints for collisions. Core toolset: .NET, C#, javascript, jQuery  ? Developed and Implemented RefinishUserAdmin application using JQuery and Javascript.  ? Designed and improved the User Interface of Collision Services Administration which users use to administer application  privilege to onsite customers. Created using .NET environment, JavaScript, and jQuery.  ? Redesigned and edited single page application login screens using JavaScript and JQuery to allow customers to create accounts  in a global database. Education Certificate in Philosophy St. John's University - Queens, NY May 2017 Bachelor's Degree in Information Science in Concentrated Area University of Pittsburgh - Pittsburgh, PA April 2014 Skills Visual studio, Exchange, Git, Html, Javascript, Node.js, Redux, Vs code, Oop, Xml, Eclipse, jquery, Mvc, Css, Sharepoint, Mysql, Rest, Mongodb, Frameworks, Microsoft office, CSS3, Front-End, React, Front End, UI, Bootstrap, Node, HTML5, User Interface Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/james-muller3140