Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - Boomy, Inc Simpsonville, SC Work Experience Web Developer Boomy, Inc June 2019 to Present I joined the Boomy team for a 60-day contract to get the new UI launched and rewrite some of the server-rendered php views into VUE.js components to separate concerns of backend vs frontend.  Key Accomplishments:  • Tech stack - Vue.js and PHP/Slim framework.  • Responsible for refactoring php views into Vue.js components.  • Effectively wrote clean PHP and Vue.js code to both complete unfinished features as well as create new functionality. Web Developer Theraloop, Inc - Greenville, SC January 2019 to May 2019 Theraloop, Inc. is a startup in the healthcare space. I joined the team to help get the MVP to market. Funding became an issue, so the company had to scale back to conserve resources. The tech stack is PHP/Lumen with React handling the front-end.  Key Accomplishments:  • Implemented best-practices via Gitlab - Committing often and creating merge requests to allow code to be reviewed prior to being sent to production.  • Responsible for scoping new feature requests as well as maintaining development timeline. Volunteer Teaching Assistant Ruby January 2019 to April 2019 I assisted in conveying the curriculum and acted as a resource for the students as they worked through the course.  Immersive Web Development Course 8/2018 - 11/2018  I completed the twelve-week immersive course covering HTML/CSS/JavaScript/Ruby/Rails/React. The intensive course introduced and reinforced basic programming concepts and built on them with multiple complex assignments and projects.  Key Accomplishments:  • Completed final project using skills in all languages learned over the twelve-week course.  • Acquired knowledge of MVC concepts and strengthened problem solving skills.  • Learned a very important lesson in embracing being uncomfortable and getting unstuck in difficult situations. Business Development Manager Alliance Tire Americas - Greer, SC July 2017 to September 2018 I was responsible for maintaining and growing both the number of dealers in the channel as well as increasing tonnage of rubber sold via containers from our factories in India.  Key Accomplishments:  • Closed largest single sale in company history for over $4M.  • Regained business from key dealers that was lost for over 2 years.  • Conducted product training for dealer salespeople as well as end users. National Sales Manager ClinicSource - Greer, SC January 2017 to July 2017 I handled sales and marketing for the western half of the United States and international customers. I worked closely with the product and dev team to get features built as well identify bugs to be fixed. I also did on-boarding of new customers and handled some product training. I was responsible for email campaigns/trade shows/measuring results. etc.  Key Accomplishments:  • Worked with dev team to build product road map and to implement feature requests from users.  • Created targeted email campaigns.  • Conducted on-boarding for new customers.  • Increased the average number of new accounts monthly from 22 to 29. National Sales Manager FUSION WEB CLINIC - Greer, SC December 2015 to November 2016 I managed the sales process and train our sales team on a weekly basis. I was responsible for driving growth through effective inbound and outbound selling. I maintained a personal sales quota and was responsible for the revenue targets for the company. I also helped to create and implement the marketing strategy, including development of email campaigns, sales collateral, etc.  Key Accomplishments:  • Increased MRR 78% in first six months in this position through improving the sales process and leveraging current customer base for referrals.  • Reduced sales cycle by 50% by utilizing the Sandler Sales method to qualify/disqualify prospects more effectively.  • Created a new-hire sales training program.  • Created digital marketing materials for use in outbound sales efforts.  • Leveraged HubSpot to increase inbound leads from 18-20 to over 40 per month.  • Increased the average number of new accounts monthly from 7 to 15. Education Master of Science in Management in Management MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY 2015 MBA in Finance WEBSTER UNIVERSITY - Greenville, SC 2012 Bachelor of Science in Business Management in Business Management RUTGERS UNIVERSITY - Camden, NJ 2004 Skills Django, Html, Vue.js, Php, Laravel, Javascript, HTML5, Front End, Wordpress Links http://linkedin.com/in/ryan-cusick-mba-ms-718b2755 https://github.com/rcusick82