Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Houston, TX Work Experience Web Developer GreenStand - Remote June 2019 to Present Web developer responsible for assisting and creating APIs, databases, UI components and project coordination. Routinely collaborating with teammates to make sure project goals are met and deployed to ensure the creation of jobs for victims of poverty driven deforestation, in East African countries and other communities. Project Manager G&H Diversified Manufacturing - Houston, TX June 2018 to December 2018 Made schedules, ordered materials, and coordinated installation of projects. Create Construction documents and developed standard operating procedures (SOP) for the project management department including drawing standards and scheduling procedures.    Accomplishments  ? Created scheduling procedure that resulted in accurate scheduling of  install teams and improved client satisfaction.  ? Contributed towards the creation of uniform drawing standards that built  brand identity Estimator Alan Margolin & Associates - New York, NY March 2017 to April 2018 Reviewed construction documents and contracts to create proposals and  change orders. Verified and updated invoices and contract documentation.  Handled all client interactions to insure all of the necessary services were  delivered and priced appropriately.    Accomplishments     ? Assisted in the creation of Department Standard Operating Procedure  (SOP) that increased work quality and client approval. Junior Architect Robert Couturier - New York, NY July 2016 to March 2017 Created Interior architecture drawings, performed onsite surveys along with design presentations and renderings. Made construction documents with the oversight of project architect. Issued sketch drawings to contractor for clarification and changes. Project Manager Charlotte Worthy - New York, NY October 2015 to July 2016 Generated construction documents along with the client material and hardware  selections and changes. Attended client meetings and issued meeting minutes.  Ordered hardware and coordinated delivery with contractors for installation.  Created and issued sketches for contractor to make on-site changes. Intern Simpson Jacoby - New York, NY June 2015 to September 2015 Created as built drawings and construction documents. Onsite measurements and surveys and created models of existing projects. Education B.S in Architecture University of Texas at San Antonio - San Antonio, TX August 2010 to May 2015 Skills Estimating, Auto CAD, Word, Wordpress, Javascript, Front End, Bootstrap, HTML, Jquery, HTML5, Angular, Java, Photoshop, Illustrator, Indesign, React.Js, MongoDB, MySQL, Express.Js, Passport.Js, Redux Links http://github.com/wadaemmanuel https://emmanuelwada.dev/ https://www.behance.net/Wada16/ Certifications/Licenses Web Development May 2019 to Present A 24-week intensive program focused on gaining technical programming skills in HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, JQuery, Bootstrap, Firebase, Node Js, MySQL, MongoDB, Express, Handelbars.js & ReactJS.