Software developer Software <span class="hl">developer</span> Software developer - Silverchair Charlottesville, VA Work Experience Software developer Silverchair - Charlottesville, VA August 2018 to Present • Assumed a full-stack role consisting of both backend and frontend development in an agile-scrum environment.    • Created websites and widgets using C# MVC while following responsive web design.  Code were written with separated business logic and data access logic for better  readability and maintainability. Dependency injection were heavily utilized for code  reusability as well as helped with reducing the cost and time needed to implement  similar features for other clients in the future.    • Designed and implemented various websites and user interfaces for our clients with responsiveness, SEO, and accessibility in mind.    • Spearheaded multiple web accessibility projects that succeeded in promoting our client  sites to meet and often exceed WCAG2.0 compliancy.    • Worked with SQL and LINQ queries to analyze and create comprehensive data relation  models and stored procedures to meet our clients' vision. Personal Projects Android Studios for Android June 2018 to June 2018 Blobs (Android Game)  • Mobile game created in Android Studios for Android devices, aside from a few Google Personal Projects Play APIs April 2018 to May 2018 Ultimate Tic-Tac-Toe ( Web application)   • A web based game featuring both player vs. player and player vs. computer components, simple machine learning (reinforcement learning) algorithms were created for the AI to improve its decision making after losses. Software Engineering Capstone Design Intern International Game Technology (IGT) September 2017 to May 2018 • Worked on an agile team to aid IGT on the transition of image processing technology in lottery terminals from scanner-based to camera-based.    • Assisted in the development and implementation of various HDR, Color-balancing, and interpolation algorithms using Java. The algorithms are fully proprietary and were developed without the use of any third-party libraries. Two of our algorithms are currently filing for patents under IGT. Web & Application Developer Intern Logic Solutions - Nanjing, CN January 2017 to June 2017 China)  • Assisted senior developers on creating web applications. Gained experience on frontend  and backend development, quality assurance testing, and database management.    • Contributed to the development of Logic SMS, a full-fledged texting application hosted  through a Tomcat server. Education B.S. in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering University of Rhode Island - Kingston, RI September 2013 to May 2018 Bachelor's in Chinese University of Rhode Island September 2013 to May 2018 Skills ECLIPSE, JAVA, Android Studios, SQL SERVER, VISUAL STUDIO, Git, CSS3 (3 years), HTML5 (3 years), .NET Framework, MVC, Vb.Net, Ajax, Javascript, JQuery (3 years), MySQL Additional Information Programming Languages                         • C#, VB.Net, .NET Framework, Entity Framework, SQL, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, HTML5, Java    Software Proficiencies:  • Experienced with Visual Studio 2015, SQL Server, GIT, Eclipse (Java), Android Studios