Front-End Web Developer Front-End <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front-End Web Developer - CatechismClass.com San Diego, CA Knowledgeable in backend and frontend development requirements. Effective communicator experienced in root cause analysis, quality control, technical writing and scientific method to complement programming knowledge as a Full Stack developer. Work Experience Front-End Web Developer CatechismClass.com November 2017 to Present Remote Intern  • Lead JavaScript developer for team of eight.  • Create new code and update existing JavaScript/jQuery to improve client-facing features.  • Review and update JavaScript/jQuery code to current standards, fix bugs and improve speed and efficiency.  • Collaborate with other team members to maintain and update website with a PHPT, MySQL backend. Freelance Web Developer Uplift Agency - San Diego, CA October 2015 to Present San Diego, CA  • Uplift Agency (uplift.agency)  ? Worked with a 5-person team to develop reusable components with ReactJS, Tachyons and Typescript.  ? Converted Sketch designs into code.  • Body Evolution (BodyEvolution.org)  ? Updated the WordPress CMS powered website per design instructions provided by site designer. This site used the Genesis Framework.  • M&G Wedding (codeandlight.com)  ? Developed wedding website to reduce snail mail costs for the bride and groom, and hosted for free. This site made use of Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery and KnockoutJS.  • GS Communication (codeandlight.com)  ? Designed and developed site for engineering firm giving them their first web presence. The site used Python, Flask, Jinja2, HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap.    • Peptide Tool (codeandlight.com)  ? Developed a custom web application using Flask and Python to improve the work efficiency of approximately 10 sales team employees.  • Pacific Pathology, Inc. (pacificpathology.com)  ? Increased number of clients and extended their client-base outside of San go County by developing the first iteration of their website using HTML and CSS.  • Hands-on experience using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery and other libraries to build responsive websites.  • Develop value added web applications using JavaScript, Python, and MySQL to improve clients' work efficiency.  • Create custom solutions using programming capabilities based on clients' requirement. Quality Assurance Specialist Bioserv Corporation - San Diego, CA October 2017 to January 2018 • Developed Excel spreadsheet for data analysis reducing chart creation time by 60%.  • Performed reviews and updates of standard operating procedures (SOPs)  • Reviewed and released raw material testing data to maintain FDA compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP)  • Reviewed routine manufacturing, environmental monitoring, and quality control data to maintain product quality Quality Assurance Specialist Gilead Sciences - Oceanside, CA March 2016 to November 2016 • Performed reviews and updates of standard operating procedures, reviewed and release raw material testing data to maintain FDA cGMP compliance  • Tracked and reviewed deviations to determine root cause and reduce reoccurrence  • Conducted routine audits of laboratory areas to ensure FDA regulatory compliance Education Executive Certificate Kelley School of Business, Indiana University 2009 Bachelor of Science in Microbiology University of California - San Diego, CA 1999 Skills Git, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, REACTJS, TYPESCRIPT, JSON, PYTHON, FLASK, HTML5, jQuery, MYSQL, POSTGRESQL, SQLITE, AJAX, VERSION CONTROL, FRAMEWORKS, MACOS, Front End, CSS3, Front-End, React Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/junclemente http://www.github.com/junclemente http://www.codeandlight.com Additional Information Skills  • Languages: JavaScript*, Typescript, Python*, HTML5, CSS3  • Frameworks/Libraries: Flask*, Jinja2*, Bootstrap, jQuery, SQLAlchemy, ReactJS, Tachyons  • Databases: MySQL, SQLite, PostgreSQL  • OS: Windows, MacOS, Ubuntu  • Other: Git/Github Version Control, Vagrant, Gulp, AJAX, JSON, GraphQL, Sketch  * denotes advanced skill level