Software Developer Intern Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Intern Software Developer Intern La Jolla, CA Work Experience Software Developer Intern MK Decision June 2019 to July 2019 Enhanced a Donation's portal with a dynamic user form using a donor's personal bank information utilizing Gatsby.js, Formik and Yup (form validation) to build the ReactJS form and implementing the stripes API to validate and process credit card information.  • Developed a Donations portal utilizing the Moqui ecosystem, build in Java and Groovy in 2 weeks. Moqui is an ERP(Enterprise Resource Planning) that establishes and connects user data by relating best business data modeling techniques. Web Developer Intern Boxmaeker, LLC February 2019 to April 2019 • Lead developer for a real-time dashboard utilizing ReactJS to create protected routes for authorized users, and the Material- UI library. Users view data passed from a Raspberry Pi attached to weight scales. This project increased understanding of Boxmaeker's primary goal of creating software for industry level weight scales, an IOT (Internet of Things) application.  • Established Google Firebase database utilizing React components, granting access to secured authenticated and authorized users by updating Firebase rules.  • Transferred Python code written for the Raspberry Pi, single board computer, to ReactJS front-end. Transformed all the Python functions measuring weight scale parameters to JavaScript to display the data on the dashboard. Research Associate I La Jolla Pharmaceutical Company June 2018 to October 2018 • Supported early-stage development and characterization of oral dosage formulations.  • Characterized peptide stability in varying tablet formulations by RP-uHPLC methodology.  • Performed tablet Content Uniformity, Dissolution Apparatus I & II assays according to USP guidelines. Scientific Associate Vertex Pharmaceuticals February 2017 to May 2018 • Characterized aspects of solid forms for drug substances, starting materials, and intermediates.  • Performed physical characterization assays to assess solid form of drug substances by DSC, TGA, PXRD, Particle Size.  • Manufactured lab bench quantities of drug substances to amorphous stable state via spray dry with 82% yield. Research Associate I Takeda Pharmaceuticals January 2015 to February 2017 • Facilitated in transitioning existing protein management database to a new web-based inventory application.  • Managed protein inventory of in-house production by aliquoting, freezing, registering, and coordinating shipments to multiple parties within and outside Takeda.  • Performed quality assessment and in-depth characterization for in-house protein production for early stage research programs using Agilent SEC and LC/MS, Wyatt MALS, and Uvikon UV-Vis instrumentation. Data summarized in CofA. Education ReactJS, and Ruby on Rails LEARN Academy February 2019 BS in Biochemistry in Biochemistry University of California - San Diego, CA June 2014 Skills Visual studio, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Reactjs, Json, Python, Ruby, Rails, Xml, Postgresql, jquery, Css, Ui, Frameworks, Authentication, Instrumentation, Hplc, Dsc Links http://github.com/jacorea https://jacorea-portfolio.herokuapp.com/ Additional Information SKILLS  Languages: JavaScript (ES6), HTML & CSS, Ruby, Python, jQuery, JSON, XML  Frameworks: ReactJS, Rails, Moqui  Libraries: Moment, Re-chart, Materialize-CSS, Material-UI, Bootstrap  Additional Software: Atom, Visual Studio Code (VSC), PostgreSQL, PGAdmin, Keybase, Authy (2 step authentication)  Lab Instrumentation: Tecan, DSC, HPLC(Agilent & Shimadzu), TA Instruments(DSC, TGA), Mettler Toledo Scales