Network Services Project Coordinator Network Services Project Coordinator Network Services Project Coordinator Springfield, IL * Four years of hands-on experience in Cloud Computing Services, Linux Administration, Web Technologies, Content Management System and Agile Project Development.  * Amazon Web Services Certified Solutions Architect - Professional and Certified SysOps Administrator - Associate.  * Certified in Google Analytics, Business Analytics, Business Process Management and IT Project Management.  * Brainbench certified in Java, PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, RDBMS, MySQL, C++. Work Experience Network Services Project Coordinator Dept. of Innovation and Technology - Springfield, IL August 2018 to Present * Managed Net Motion Migration Project for 6 months. Structured and improved the quality of migration by 50%.  * Created and managed migration plan and schedule for multiple agencies of the state of Illinois using MS Project.  * Efficiently communicated with internal teams and CIOs of other agencies to schedule migration.  * Identified outliers in mobile data usage from each agency before installing Net Motion to avoid bandwidth throttling issues using Tableau.  Technologies Involved: MS Excel, MS Word, MS Visio, Tableau, EMS and SharePoint. Student Web Associate University of Illinois - Springfield, IL January 2018 to August 2018 * Worked with a team of five at the Office of Web Services at UIS; developing and maintaining websites using WordPress Multisite. Reviewed websites for content structure and enhancements.  * Performed web accessibility checks for 180 websites using Functional Accessibility Evaluation (FAE) and World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) Markup Validation.  * Published Google Analytics reports on top performing websites and created custom Dashboards, Reports (Search Engine Optimization, Social Media Referrals) and Alerts.  * Created Views and Filters to analyze user journey for departments. Analyzed user engagement on campaigns involved in university recruitment and achievement of goals.  Technologies Involved: WordPress, PHP, MySQL, Git, Google Analytics. Web Developer Tata Consultancy Services - Nagpur, Maharashtra June 2015 to July 2017 * Worked with a team of seven as a Full Stack Developer in building proof of concepts, designing and development of the Bridgestone Hub portal.  * Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, S3, IAM, RDS, SQS, SNS, Athena, Quick Sight, Elastic Transcoder, EBS, Route53, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto-scaling groups.  * Configured AWS CloudWatch monitoring policies and custom metrics to enable detailed monitoring of EC2 instance performance and configured S3 versioning and lifecycle policies to backup files and archive in Glacier.  * Configured AWS VPC with public and private subnets, Routing Tables, Internet Gateway, ACLs and Security groups.  * Deployed and managed by infrastructure using CloudFormation, OpsWorks and Elastic Beanstalk.  * Hands-on experience in migrating on-premises relational databases to AWS RDS, Aurora.  * Collaborated with stakeholders in requirement gathering phase and presented the application demo at UAT phase.  * Developed workflow management and analytics modules to gain insights about utilization of the portal.  * Performed code-optimization and successfully deployed six versions of the application with minimum downtime.  * Held learning enhancement sessions on Amazon Web Services, GitHub and Ember JS.  Technologies Involved: AWS, Ember JS, Java, MySQL, Elasticsearch, Hibernates, Git, WordPress.    PROJECT  Go Serverless (Portfolio) July 2018 - Aug 2018    * Hosted Portfolio in Amazon S3 bucket using static web hosting feature without using a server.  * Controlled versions of source code by storing source files in GitHub public repository.  * Automated source code deployment from GitHub to Amazon S3 using CircleCI, a continuous integration tool.  * Integrated Google Analytics tracking to analyze user interaction with the website and generate reports.  * Performed Search Engine Optimization to be indexed by Google Search and Bing Search engines.  Technologies Involved: Amazon Web Services, GitHub, CircleCI, HTML5, CSS2, JavaScript  URL: http://www.vamsipitta.com Education Master's in Management Information Systems University of Illinois at Springfield - Springfield, IL August 2017 to May 2019 Bachelor's in Electronics and Communications Engineering Sree Vidyanikethan Engineering College - Tirupati, Andhra Pradesh August 2011 to April 2015 Skills Amazon Web Services (4 years), Google Analytics, Linux Administration, Project Management, WordPress, SharePoint, Node.js, EmberJs, Java, HTML5, CSS2, Javascript, PHP, Bootstrap, Tableau, SAS Enterprise Miner, Hibernates, SQL, GitHub, CircleCI, MS Visio, MS Project Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/venkata-vamsi-pitta http://www.vamsipitta.com Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Professional September 2018 to September 2020 AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associate April 2018 to April 2018 AWS Certified SysOps Administrator - Associate October 2018 to October 2020 Google Anaytics Individual Qualification June 2018 to June 2019 Business Analytics January 2019 to Present Business Process Management January 2019 to Present IT Project Management January 2019 to Present Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Cloud Computing Service: Amazon Web Services  Web Analytics: Google Analytics  Content Management System: WordPress, SharePoint  Programming Languages: Java  Frameworks: Node.js, Ember.js  Business Intelligence: Tableau, SAS Enterprise Miner  Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS2, Bootstrap, Hibernates  Server Administration: Linux Administration  Scripting Languages: JavaScript, PHP  Databases: SQL, MySQL  Version Control System: GitHub  Continuous Integration: CircleCI  Project Management: Microsoft Project  Flowchart Software: Microsoft Visio