Job Seeker Work Experience Angular February 2018 to Present A Blockchain based solution for retirement benefit calculation  Provided assistance to awesome teammates on Nodejs and and demographic data sharing and updation.  Angular.  Deployed applications using nginx and PM2 on aws. Application Developer Angular - Pune, MAHARASHTRA, IN May 2017 to Present Pune, India MongoDB Git ExpressJS ReactJS  Accenture solves it's clients' toughest challenges by providing services in strategy, consulting, digital, technology and operations.  Docker  Achievements/Tasks  Desinged framework for backend in Nodejs for various  POCs.  Developed applications with blockchain client sdks. PROJECTS UNDERTAKEN  Worked on client's blockchian based usecases in Nodejs, Teachers' Retirement System of the State of Illinois Outgrow May 2016 to May 2017 with several templates to blockchain. choose from to build any kind of calculator with custom  Got recognition award and performance points reward. questions and formula or recommendation based to be used for marketing, capturing leads, estimating cost or value of  something. A complete project management web tool for developers and 02/2015 Venturepact LLC - Jalandhar, PUNJAB, IN February 2015 to May 2017 Jalandhar, India clients which streamline the payment flow, includes chat and  VenturePact's SaaS platform helps businesses intelligently source and work monitoring (code) by integrating GitHub, Bit bucket and manage vetted software development teams for their digital product Beanstalk etc. APIs.  development.  Achievements/Tasks  Played role in technical architecture and DB design of software product. ACHIEVEMENTS  Worked on various UI modules in Angular and backend API  fuctionality in Nodejs.  Delivered lecture on PHP with MySQL workshop  (06/2016) Provided guidance to three awesome teammates. Organized by Lovely Professional University for students.  Worked on code refactoring, code splitting and scalability of apllication. 3rd rank in code storm 2 (2014)  Programming contest for students organized by university.  Worked on deployment using apache, mlab and worked on setting up web hooks.  Developed drag drop based online calculator creator and analytical engine for grabbing analytics and leads. LANGUAGES  Played role as a technical interviewer and provided English Hindi  guidance, training to new joined technical staff. Full Professional Proficiency Native or Bilingual Proficiency    Punjabi  Native or Bilingual Proficiency MEAN Stack Developer Venturepact.com February 2015 to May 2016 Education Music Reading Tech Vlogs 2011 to 2015 Senior Secondary Education S.S.D.A.V. Sen. Sec. School 2011 B. Tech. in CSE Lovely Professional University - Jalandhar, PUNJAB, IN Links http://in.linkedin.com/in/mukul-katal-0a7252b2