Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Remote Software Engineer Waterville, ME B.S. in Applied Computer Science, with Ruby on Rails bootcamp experience (4 months, full time class). I have experience with working remotely, pair programming, working in fast-paced software development teams, software planning, and many more areas. Work Experience Software Developer Remote July 2019 to Present https://csmartinez.github.io/Portfolio/ Web Developer, IT Support Institute for Tribal Environmental Professionals - Flagstaff, AZ August 2017 to July 2019 ? Managing and updating web content across hundreds of web pages  among several organizations in Microsoft Visual Studios  ? Constructing innovative solutions to problems by programming search  engines, interactive maps, online forms, and more  ? Overseeing the department's inventory spreadsheet and assisting  employees with computer related issues  ? Editing media presentations and co-managing complex file systems Web Developer Banner Edge Media - Scottsdale, AZ June 2015 to September 2018 Part-time remote web developer, 20-25 hours/week  ? Built hundreds of microsites, landing pages in the higher education  industry across the U.S. and Canada  ? Programmed forms, validations and worked with clients daily to meet their needs  ? Using mainly HTML, CSS, JS and PHP Ruby on Rails Software Engineer National Parks Service through Northern Arizona University, Flagstaff, AZ - Flagstaff, AZ October 2015 to April 2016 Part-time volunteer, 10-15 hours/week  ? Rebuilt an existing grand canyon raft trips organizing software into a new platform in Ruby on Rails with careful design and planning  ? Collaborated and worked with a team of colleagues under the guidance of two of NAU's computer science professors  ? Wrote complex algorithms as well designed the UX and UI as the main end-to-end  engineer PHP Software Engineer Fuel Medical - Camas, WA April 2015 to May 2015 Full-time internship, 40 hours/week  ? Developed a software in and while learning PHP with Zend Framework 2  ? Learned how to use Google Cloud Platform API which I used to start and stop instances  from a dashboard web software I built to manage servers used by clients nationwide  ? Achieved a working prototype with functionality at the conclusion of the internship Education Bachelor's in Applied Computer Science Northern Arizona University - Flagstaff, AZ August 2015 to May 2019 Ruby on Rails Epicodus Programming School - Portland, OR January 2015 to April 2015 Skills AngularJS (3 years), Bootstrap (4 years), CSS (4 years), HTML (4 years), JQuery (2 years), Open Source (4 years), Problem-solving (4 years), Ruby on Rails (4 years), Software Development (4 years) Links https://github.com/csmartinez Groups NAU Computer Science Capstone Group - Team Jasper August 2018 to May 2019 Team Jasper is a capstone team at Northern Arizona University that aims to develop the JASS virtual training space that will allow education faculty to run classroom simulations, where there will be training excercises crafted by faculty that allow education majors to experience diversity issues designed to prepare them for what they might encounter in an actual classroom. Many classroom simulations exist, but few address diversity issues in-depth. This software is developed in Ruby on Rails and currently hosted on Heroku: http://jasper-jass.herokuapp.com    https://www.cefns.nau.edu/capstone/projects/CS/2019/Jasper-S19/index.html