Delivery Driver Delivery Driver Goodyear, AZ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Delivery Driver Domino's - Avondale, AZ January 2019 to Present • Deliver food quickly at a high volume store.  • Take accurate orders.  • Regular cleaning as well as opening and closing duties.  • Provide a great customer experience all around.  • Help on the make line when possible. Freelance Developer Codeable - Remote May 2018 to Present • Build great customer rapport.  • Listen attentively to best fulfill client's needs.  • Develop and design websites using the WordPress platform.  • Go above and beyond to exceed expectations. Delivery Driver Jimmy John's Sandwiches - Goodyear, AZ June 2018 to January 2019 • Provide an excellent customer experience.  • Take accurate orders.  • Be timely and efficient.  • Deliver delicious food to customers.  • Preform closing duties as well as regular cleaning routine effectively.  • Help on make line when possible. Warehouse Associate Amazon.com - Phoenix, AZ February 2018 to June 2018 Senior Developer Darkspire Media February 2017 to January 2018 • Created responsive websites.  • Developed mobile applications. Web Developer Bighead Technology February 2015 to December 2016 • Gained experience working with a variety of frameworks, such as Laravel, Silex, CodeIgniter, PyroCMS, Bootstrap, and Magento(E-Commerce)  • Worked with dependency management done with Composer.  • Worked flexible hours and maintained availability.  • Developed experience in communicating with clients to get things done right.  • Worked with Doctrine including the migrations system and ORM  • Advanced my overall knowledge of development and structuring development to maintain modularity.  • Improved front-end skills; e.g., using JavaScript libraries, working with Bootstrap, developing templates, creating modal windows, creating landing pages and efficiently writing clean code. Education Some college Skills Bootstrap (3 years), C# (1 year), JavaScript (4 years), .NET (Less than 1 year), Wordpress (4 years), HTML (4 years), CSS (4 years), PHP (4 years), Customer Service (2 years) Links http://meowbounce.com http://attilatilly.com https://www.bricev.com Publications Meow Bounce iOS http://meowbounce.com 2017-12 Independent iOS game made with swift Additional Information Skills & Tools  - Expert - WordPress, PHP, Swift, React Native, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS3, HTML5, Bootstrap, SQL  - Advanced - MVC Frameworks, .NET  - Intermediate - C#, Ruby    Examples Of Work  Attilatilly.com - https://www.attilatilly.com  Meow Bounce - iOS Game - http://meowbounce.com