Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer San Diego, CA I possess a deep understanding of the server side and the browser side programming techniques and best practices. I have over three years experience as back-end web developer, and for the past two years I have been focusing on the front-end utilizing powerful new JavaScript frameworks. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Freelance - San Diego, CA January 2017 to Present - Participated in the development of projects utilizing React.  - Translated photos into fully functioning and responsive websites.  - Built reusable react components.  - Increased speed of code by reducing unnecessary loops and state changes.  - Refactored large portions of JavaScript code to ES2015 standards.  - Designed and developed custom UI for several projects.  - Tech used : Git, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, React, Redux, Gatsby, Laravel, NodeJS, mongodb, mongoose. Web Developer Satoripop - Sousse November 2011 to June 2014 - Developed web interfaces using Bootsrap, CodeIgniter, cake PHP and Node.js.  - Designed SQL queries, involving multiple tables and joins.  - Wrote AJAX calls to access CodeIgniter controller functions and render data.  - Transferred WordPress websites from one host to another.   - Troubleshooted and resolved broken code on WordPress websites.   - Customized existing WordPress themes and plugins.  - Converted design mockups to HTML CSS responsive web pages.   - Modified existing PHP scripts to add/update back end functionalities.  - Tech used : HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, WordPress, CodeIgniter, cake PHP, MySQL, NodeJS. Web Developer Internship Offshore-Box - Sousse January 2011 to July 2011 -Converted psd mockups to HTML CSS web pages.  -Modified existing PHP scripts to add/update back end functionalities. Education Associate Degree in Software Engineering ISET - Sousse September 2008 to August 2011 Skills PHP, Wordpress, Javascript, Bootstrap, HTML5, Node.js, MongoDB, MySQL, CSS3 Certifications/Licenses The Complete Node.js Course July 2018 to Present Online course and practical training where I developed, deployed and tested applications that utilized NodeJS, Express, MongoDB, Mongoose.  codewithmosh.com Mastering React August 2018 to Present Online course and practical training where I developed, deployed and tested applications that utilized Resct js, Node.js, HTML5 and CSS3.  codewithmosh.com Additional Information • Quick learner  • Problem solving attitude  • Team player  • Ability to read/write/speak English