Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - Adsdaily.LTD Cupertino, CA More than 4 years of full stack web developer experience. Proficient in Javascript, MongoDB, HTML, CSS,  Bootstrap, and jQuery. Knowledge of Python, PHP, Angular 6, Ionic Framework, Java, C++ and WordPress.  Willingness to learn new technologies and implement in short time. Work Experience Web Developer Adsdaily.LTD - Montréal, QC January 2015 to Present WFH since moved to Bay Area in Aug, 2018) Designed and developed user-friendly multilingual website based on Mean Stack (Mongo DB, Express.js, Angular.js, Node.js).    Fixed bugs from existing websites, design new features and implemented enhancements that significantly improved  web functionality and speed.    Build and maintain websites using WordPress and customize themes to meet clients' requirements.    Developed a web tool by python and experience with features of Angular 6 such as directives, dependency injection, modules and routing.    Development of fundamental hybrid mobile application(Ionic) based on web technologies to access the application  APIs.    Managed companies virtual servers at Amazon EC2. Web Developer Ironoak - Montréal, QC June 2014 to January 2015 Working on project using CodeIgniter, Jquery and MySQL. Education Bachelor's degree in Computer Science in Computer Science Concordia University - Montréal, QC September 2010 to June 2014 Skills Html, Bootstrap, Node.js, Object oriented, Object oriented programming, Mongodb, Mysql, Angularjs, Html5, Data structures, Css, Algorithms Additional Information Skills  4+ years of experience in Node.js, Express, MongoDB and AngularJS frameworks.    Proficiency in HTML/HTML5, CSS and Bootstrap.    Has strong DB Skills especially in MongoDB and MySQL.    Working knowledge of servers, networks and hosting environments ( AWS ).    Experience with bower, gulp, or similar frameworks for development and testing.    Is solid in data structures, algorithms, and Object Oriented programming skills.