WEB Developer <span class="hl">WEB</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> WEB Developer - Nationwide, Columbus Ohio City, OH • 9+ years of experience in the Web Applications Development using HTML 4.01/5, CSS (2/3), XHTML, JavaScript, J-Query, AJAX, XML, ANGULAR-JS & ANGULAR, BACKBONE-JS, REQUIRE-JS, React-JS, NODE-JS and JSON.  • Experience with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, and agile methodologies  • Proficient in developing web page quickly and effectively using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript and J-QUERY and also experience in making web page cross browser compatible.  • Experience in Graphic and User Experience Design and Transforming Web/Graphic Designers static prototypes into hand-coded HTML, specifically emphasizing accuracy and efficiency & adhering to W3C-established web standards with respect to maintaining cross-browser/cross-platform compatibility and delivering final page templates, including optimized images.  • Experience in Applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON and XML.  • Experience in working MVC Architecture and also in using version control(SVN)  • Experience in developing Ext-JS components like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, Combo-Box and Button etc.  • Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  • Involvement in using various IDE's like Notepad++, eclipse, VSD  • Utilized the latest front end Technologies such as HTML5 and CSS3 for layouts.  • Experience in CSS pixel-level layout, Consistency with browsers, Version and Platform Independence.  • Experience in using various jQuery UI controls and corresponding Event handlers etc.  • Ability to write clear, well-documented, well-commented and efficient code for web development.  • Experience with build tools like Jenkins and concourse  • Good written, oral and Interpersonal skills with a strong problem solving ability to excel through collaborating with team members Work Experience WEB Developer Nationwide, Columbus February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing new responsive web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, ANGULAR, J-QUERY, BOOTSTRAP  • Written components that are responsible to hold model data, call back functions and for rendering views.  • Writing controllers that are responsible for transferring control between components, routing and rendering views.  • Experience on developing user interfaces with architectural patterns such as Model View Controller (MVC)  • Experience in DOM manipulation using JavaScript, JQuery and Angular  • Good experience in unit testing by using Jasmine for unit testing in Angular.  • Experience with Dev-ops efforts using multiple tools such as Splunk, New Relic  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration, builds and deployments. Also, used Jenkins jobs for auto code merge, branch creator, cleaning up work spaces, integrate with Urban Code Deploy for everyday deployments  • Experienced in working with Pivotal Cloud Foundry and used Concourse for it  • Understanding various front-end architectural patterns like view first pattern, lazy loading to minimize load times and improve response times  • Understanding of various bundling systems like webpack  • Followed Agile methodology and pair programming concepts for the software development  • Expertise on coordinating monthly project releases from end to end  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular, GIT, Bootstrap, XML, Jenkins WEB Developer UPS - GE September 2017 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing User Interaction screens using HTML-5, CSS-3, JAVASCRIPT (ES6), ANGULAR-4, TYPESCRIPT, AG-GRID and BOOTSTRAP.  • Responsible for displaying huge data in a grid format using AG-GRID.  • Experienced in working with different JavaScript and J-Query libraries.  • Experienced in working with complex and nested data structures.  • Used ANGULAR CLI to scaffold and build the application structure.  • Responsible for Writing controllers that are responsible for transferring control between components, routing and rendering views.  • Written controllers and components that are responsible to hold model data, call back functions and for rendering views.  • Responsible for writing test cases using KARMA AND JASMINE.  • Responsible for development of the web pages from mock- ups.  • Making pages that are cross-browser compatible.  • Used GIT, NPM for source code management in project development.  • Used TFS and followed agile methodology for project development.  • As a scrum team member worked on agile stories and fixing defects.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular-4, Typescript, J-Query, GIT, TFS, NPM Bootstrap, J-SON. WEB Developer WebMD - GE June 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular-js  • Responsible for ensuring the pattern consistency across all pages.  • Used J-Query and CSS selectors, toggles, and hover functionality, ToolTip, Ajax Forms.  • Responsible for design and development of the web pages from mock- ups.  • Used XML elements to define document structure and used style sheets to manipulate and re-use content  • Used XSL to format the existing XML documents into another format  • Making pages that are cross-browser compatible.  • Used GIT sever for project development  • As a scrum team member worked on agile stories, trouble shooting issues and fixing defects  • Used JSON and AJAX for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers  • Used Agile methodology for the software development  • Worked in production support team for fixing the defects which arise in the live sit.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular-js, React-js, J-Query, GIT, Bootstrap, J-SON, XML, XSL Web Developer JP Morgan Chase & Co. New Jersey January 2016 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular-js and Bootstrap  • Used Angular-js framework to develop the single page application where it has several drop downs and link up with libraries  • Used High charts and d3js for creating Graphs and charts for payments section and also implemented the filtering functionality for the graphs.  • Responsible in implementation of the presentation layer for the application using HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT  • Used J-Query and CSS selectors, toggles, and hover functionality, ToolTip, Ajax Forms.  • Specially working with AJAX data consisting of JSON responses, parsing the same and presenting on the UI layer.  • Making pages that are cross-browser compatible.  • Used GIT sever for project development  • Used Bootstrap to show and hide classes for different and grid classes to create RWD.  • Used Agile methodology for the software development.  • As a scrum team member worked on agile stories, trouble shooting issues and fixing defects  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, GIT, Bootstrap, Node-js, Angular-JS, Require-js, React-js, J-SON Web Developer JP Morgan Chase & Co., OH October 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Working in custom created framework created extensively using JavaScript MVC and writing code that is modular and reusable.  • Responsible in implementation of the presentation layer for the application using HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT,  • Writing components that hold model data and call back functions for the actions triggered from view.  • Specially working with AJAX data consisting of JSON responses, parsing the same and presenting on the UI layer.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls with JavaScript validation controls.  • Consuming bootstrap like Blue-UI components that are compatible for different browsers and resolutions.  • Making pages that are cross-browser compatible.  • Used GIT sever for project development  • Used Ajax, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites.  • Used Require-Js for dependency injection.  • Worked in line with Analysts and Content team to identify correct keys and content  • Used Agile methodology for the software development.  • Used all the advanced Photoshop features to create appealing visual web interfaces.  • Making pages comply to Accessibility requirements (ADA, 508-COMPLIANT) for physically challenged  • Produced semantically appropriate, standards compliant markup, and produced Rich User Interfaces.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, J-Query, CQ5, GIT, Bootstrap, Backbone-js, Blue-JS, Require-js, Blue-UI, React-js Web Developer Caterpillar - Nashville, TN January 2014 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery AJAX, Angular js, Require-js, React-js, Backbone-js and JSON.  • Responsible in implementation of the presentation layer for the application using HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, ANGULAR JS  • Used JavaScript, jQuery for user interactions in pages.  • Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using responsive design and media queries.  • Used JQuery Ajax for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  • Developed claim screens for customers using ANGULAR JS, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3 AND JAVASCRIPT  • Utilized various JavaScript and jQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  • Involved in designing and developing the JSON, XML Objects with MySQL.  • Used TFS for software development life cycle  • Used Ajax, JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites.  • Testing the website on multiple browsers with their old as well as latest release.  • Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  • Using complex Object Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML and JavaScript.  • Active participation throughout the entire software development lifecycle from project inception, to code development and elaborate testing of the various modules.  • Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages.  • Been an active team player, helped in fixing bugs and also carried out troubleshooting.  • Produced semantically appropriate, standards compliant markup, and produced Rich User Interfaces.  • Used all the advanced Photoshop features to create appealing visual web interfaces.  Environment: HTML4/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, Angular-js, GIT Require-js, Backbone-js, J-Query, React-js, AJAX, Bootstrap. Web Developer Wells Fargo - Minneapolis, MN August 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Web design and development, application development using Photoshop, HTML, JavaScript and Dreamweaver.  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, JQuery, Angular js, JSP's, Require-js, Node-js and JavaScript.  • Designed and implemented the user interface using HTML5, XHTML, XML, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT AND ANGULAR JS  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards  • Applied J-Query scripts for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Developed the User Interface using HTML 5, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX  • Designed flash plugins for including different functionalities and content.  • Designed XML files for maintaining contents like video, images and audio and display them in flash application.  • Involved with bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues with JavaScript and JQuery  • Created web pages using HTML, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Creating and implementing Master Classes in Action script 3.0 (based on MVC) for the application.  • Developing XML classes for loading the data from XML files deployed at the server.  • Designed 10 Unique themes with rich and flexible to accommodate different scenarios in which the user might want to display the data.  Environment: HTML4/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, GIT, Angular-js, Require-js, Bootstrap, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, Illustrator, Information Architecture, Selenium IDE, Flash, SQL and Tomcat. Web Developer Well Care - Tampa, FL July 2011 to July 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Node-js, JSON, J-Query, Backbone-js and Ajax.  • We have followed with Agile and Scrum development methodologies  • Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox and IE Developer Tool bar for IE.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures.  • Developed Page layouts, Navigation and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework.  • Used jQuery plugins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Developed web presentation layer using HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  • Designed the table less web applications using CSS and with the help of and tags as per W3C standards.  Environment: HTML 4.x, CSS2.x, JavaScript, Backbone-js, J-QUERY, AJAX, JSON, XML, Node-js, TOMCAT APACHE. Web Developer DELTA AIRLINES - Atlanta, GA March 2010 to May 2011 Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirements gathering, analysis, Conceptual Design and Details.  • Involved in development and finalization of initial design of the application and worked with content managers, copywriters and designers to resolve the issues.  • Implemented the editor component with spell-check using AJAX, JSON.  • Integrated jQuery Grid View for all Data View for the product.  • Created cross browser UI components using various jQuery  • Integrally designed and implemented the entire Security Administration UI that has 15 screens which is a major attraction of the product.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, jQuery, Ajax, and CSS.  • Displayed on demand data to the user using Ajax.  • Extensively used jQuery plug-ins like Image Light box, Ajax Queue, Auto Populating select-box, Search plug-in, calendar plug-in, AJAX-queue plug-in, and Auto populating multiple select-boxes.  • Written and implemented CSS throughout the site, both as in-line and imported files.  • Written and implemented Object Oriented JavaScript throughout the site, both as in-line and imported files.  • Created role-based DHTML navigation menu, menu items changes dynamically, derived from the database.  • Monitor site for any UI inconsistencies and fix all the UI bugs reported in the test track.  • Thoroughly worked with Functional Specification documents, UI documents checked all UI requirements and gathered all PSD'S according to the functional requirement document.  • Attended project meetings on a regular basis and helped to improve the Project workflow.  Environment: OO JavaScript, J-Query, Core Java, Require-js CSS, AJAX, JSON, HTML, DHTML, XML, DOM, Photoshop 5, PHP, MySQL and Eclipse IDE. Education Bachelors in Engineering in Engineering JNTU Masters in computer science in computer science University of Central Missouri Skills Visual studio, Application server, C#, C++, Git, Html, Javascript, Reactjs, Json, Xml, Ajax, Mvc, Eclipse, Java, Servlets, Ui, Backbone, Database, Sql server, Sql server 2005