Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - Hobby at Home North Middletown, NJ Looking for a job where I can use my strong experience with LAMP stack. Work Experience Web Developer Hobby at Home 2012 to Present Driven by great passion, patience, and problem solving skills, I have learned object oriented  PHP and MySQL. My latest project is a core MVC web app with pretty URLs. I have it in four  levels of user authentication: level 0 has no authentication and is useful for simple dynamic  websites; level 1 has only one user access that can add comments and change user  information; level 2 has an admin that can add and manage new users, and users that can add  comments and change their user information; level 3 has a webmaster that can add and manage new admins, then the admins can add and manage new users, then the users that  can add comments and change their user information. The access is done using either user id  or email address. The passwords are hashed, the remember-me-tokens are hashed and salted, the forms have CSRF and XSS protection, and the login part has brute-force hacking  protection. I used this as the core for the full scale online study tool for my chemistry students  at https://mrpavel.us PHP Web Developer Self starter - Middletown, NJ 2009 to Present 2009 - Present  Linux Power User  Installed and customized Linux Debian, Ubuntu, Kali, and Arch on computer workstations, servers, laptops, virtual machines (VirtualBox/Vagrant), and Raspberry Pi. Strong knowledge  on LAMP stack installation and setup for multiple Internet domains with FTP using MySQL as back-end. Mail server with multiple users and domains using MySQL as back-end. Experience  with IDEs such as Eclipse, NetBeans, Android Studio, and Geany. Bash shell scripting for backup, update, and blazing fast installation of web, FTP, and mail servers. Skills Javascript, Bootstrap, Object oriented, Php, Scripting, Lamp stack, Lamp, Linux, Shell scripting, Mysql, Angularjs, Html5, Ftp, jquery, Mail server, HTML Assessments Search Engine Optimization — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/sv3vmna0qkx8ci-l Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Results-oriented, high-energy, hands-on professional, with a successful record of  accomplishments in teaching, R&D, and engineering fields. Experience in quality assurance  and customer service with focus on providing the customer with the highest quality product.    Major strengths include strong leadership, outstanding communication skills, competent, team  player, attention to detail, dutiful respect for compliance in all regulated environments, product  validation experience, write and maintain operating procedures and standards, identify  potential design improvements, and supervisory skills including hiring, termination, scheduling,  training, and other administrative tasks. Thorough knowledge of current manufacturing  practices and a clear vision to accomplish the company goals.    SKILLS SUMMARY:    ? PHP - object oriented ? JavaScript ? Debian, Ubuntu, Kali, and Arch Linux  ? MySQL/MariaDB ? jQuery ? Web/FTP server (MySQL back-end)  ? HTML5 ? AngularJS ? Mail server (MySQL back-end)  ? CSS3 ? Foundation ? Shell scripting  ? Bootstrap ? LAMP stack ? VirtualBox, Vagrant