Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Engineer Camarillo, CA Software Developer with five years of experience and an emphasis on leadership, producing quality products, workflow efficiency, and team synergy. Work Experience Software Developer Department of Defense - NAVAIR - Point Mugu, CA November 2013 to Present • Implemented World Wind, an open source 3D interactive virtual globe, in Java for mission planning with new features and UI, and resulted in removing crash-inducing memory leaks, an 100% performance increase, and scalability.  • Built a Project Management website with Ruby on Rails and PostgreSQL which included setting up multiple databases, creating new web pages, user creation, and security protocols within a closed network.  • Developed new features and resolved bugs in Objective-C for an iOS NITF-based mapping engine resulting in saving over $100K, increased user experience by 95%, and the project becoming on schedule.  • Provided Git training to the development team with a presentation consisting of twenty slides to increase productivity of the development team and help reduce production costs.  • Implemented new features in a C# Electronic Warfare mission planning tool to improve scalability and communicate through JSON with the Java World Wind application.  • Redesigned, fixed bugs, and implemented IA fixes for a C# tactical mission planning tool to increase user experience and scalability of project.  • Implemented ReactJS, Spring Framework, and Docker to create prototypes of front-end to backend solutions of a new web application.  • Improved a C# Excel parsing application to create and filter mission planning documents leading to a 50% increase in scalability, efficiency, testability, and functionality.   • Led Scrum meetings and developed with an innovation team to prototype an autonomous 3D mapping quadcopter utilizing a machine learning algorithm to learn as it traversed the maze/room.  • Developed Python scripts to capture sensor data and to perform image recognition for robotics.  • Completed training courses on Software Design Patterns, UML Design Analysis, Acquisition Management, Systems Engineering, Scrum, and team synergy. Web Developer Bethel Media - Redding, CA June 2013 to September 2013 ? Developed using Ruby on Rails, HTML, Twitter Bootstrap, and CSS to provide backend support and new designs based on the customer's needs. Implementation included refactoring of web pages, updating frontend designs, adding new features to give more privileges to users, and creating test suites.  ? Found and corrected critical security flaws within user creation to prevent possible sql injections.  ? Developed in a Agile and Scrum environment with daily standups, code reviews, Continuous Integration development, and bi-monthly sprint reviews. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering California State University - Chico, CA December 2012 Skills Java (2 years), C# (1 year), Git (5 years), Docker (Less than 1 year), Ruby on Rails (Less than 1 year), Objective C (1 year), MYSQL, CSS, HTML 5, Angular Assessments Technical Support — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/1k32q-bigpogogqd Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.