Web Developer/Designer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Designer Front-End Web Developer Charlotte, NC I design and develop websites. I have been doing it for almost 10 years. I'm fluent it HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Php. Adobe CC Pro. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer/Designer Traveling Saints - Stratford, CT January 2019 to Present • Designed the site layout and structure  • Created site layout/user interface from provided design concepts by using standard HTML/CSS practices.  • Programmed the site using JavaScript and Php  • Designed for and tested desktop and mobile sites, across multiple browsers  • Evaluated code to ensure that it is valid, is properly structured, meets industry standards and is compatible with browsers, devices, or operating systems. Web Developer/Designer Hands to Heart Homecare - Stratford, CT February 2016 to February 2019 • Utilized extensive technical skills to develop client websites that exceeded expectations  • Developed concepts, controlled project flow and ensured deliverable milestones were met  • Designed for and tested desktop and mobile sites, across multiple browsers  • Evaluated code to ensure that it is valid, is properly structured, meets industry standards and is compatible with browsers, devices, or operating systems. Web Developer New Era Conceptz, LLC April 2014 to October 2014 • Developing and maintaining the front-end functionality of the website.    • Participating in discussions with clients to clarify what they want.  • Designing prototypes for websites  • Creating logos, banners and buttons for websites.  • Writing cross browser compliant HTML, CSS & JavaScript  • Simultaneously managing several databases and reporting tools. Web Developer Enlaposh Showroom January 2012 to April 2014 • Co-developed a dynamic, secure Web site from scratch.  • Launched visually appealing, user-friendly Webscape with interactive features to optimize traffic, page views and user experience (UX).  • Used SEO best practices to elevate organization's Web presence.  • Providing technical support to end-users.  • Identifying and correcting software deficiencies.  • Devising SEO strategies based around specific keywords. Education Web Development and Design The Art Institute of Charlotte - Charlotte, NC August 2015 Bachelor's in Communications Bluefield College - Bluefield, VA August 2010 to February 2012 Skills Html, Javascript, Php, Css, Dreamweaver, Front End, Jquery, Bootstrap, HTML5, HTML 5 Additional Information SKILLS:    • HTML  • CSS  • JavaScript  • php  • Adobe Dreamweaver  • Adobe Illustrator  • Adobe XD  • Adobe Photoshop  • Adobe InDesign  • SEO  • Social Media Marketing and Analytics