Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - Sleepy Hollow, Inc Louisville, KY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Sleepy Hollow, Inc July 2018 to Present Assist in creation of a Homeowners Association Information system. Visual Studio 2013, C#, SQL Server backend. Web Developer Home Care Home Base (HCHB) June 2017 to December 2017 Maintained Provider/Insurer/Patient Application using Infragistic WinForms, C#, and SQL Server back-end. Agile environment. Web Developer PSST, Inc July 2016 to November 2016 Using C#/ASP.Net-MVC, developed Partner Portal for entry of client information into MS CRM and internal SQL Server database. Used DEV Express MVC components. Developed WCF services to retrieve and update CRM data. Utilized Entity Framework to process internal SQL Server inserts and updates. Web Developer Strategic Marketing, Inc December 2015 to June 2016 Using C#/ASP.Net-MVC, developed customer facing, direct mail campaign setup and settings using TELERIK/Kendo UI components. Developed high-volume, high-performance database update modules to access third-party API's using SQL Server, Service Broker and WCF. Working with DBA, implemented Service Broker queues to update 159,000,000 rows in an SQL Server 2014 database. Used C# Console Application to create a variable number of threads (determined by application server resources), to access Blackbook Vehicle Information System and NCOA Address APIs. Improved processing time from 3.5 seconds per transaction to hundreds of transactions per second. Web Developer Fireking, Inc March 2015 to September 2015 Created and maintained Web Forms using Visual Studio 2008, C#, ASPX, and JavaScript with SQL Server 2008 back-end. Created all necessary DB tables, queries and Stored Procedures Developer American Commercial Lines March 2015 to July 2015 Updated VB6 and VB.net Window Forms to accommodate reporting with Oracle BI Publisher. Created reports in Oracle BI Publisher. Set-up schedule in Oracle DB. Web Developer ATA College, Inc November 2011 to July 2014 Web Form Development and maintenance using Visual Studio 2010 and SQL Server 2008R2. Duties involved maintenance of a CRM application using ASP.net, HTML, Javascript and VB.net. My duties included discussions with the users to determine requirements for system enhancements. Once requirements were established, I would create code and test the system, then review with the users to ensure accuracy, then promote the application into the production environment. This application made use of web services and several third party control libraries (Telerik Web Controls, ASPOSE for accessing MS Office objects, Crystal Reports for all reporting and SENTRY Document Management System).    Also maintained a Student Information Portal, also written in VB.Net and SQL Server, used by students to access grades and schedules. This Web Form demonstrated code reusability by accessing the web services and libraries of the CRM application.    Further, developed an On line Document Signing application in VB.net and the third party DocuSign system. This application enabled students to sign all necessary enrollment forms on line without the need to produce hard copies. The signed forms were then deposited in the aforementioned SENTRY Document Management System.    I was also the primary resource for information pertaining to any aspect of computer usage: MS Office, Software versioning and compatibility, on-line resources and application usage questions. Applications Consultant Humana January 2008 to April 2011 Web Development and maintenance utilizing Visual Studio 2005/2008, ASPX and C# with IBM DB2 and Microsoft SQL Server databases. WebServices and WCF Services development with XML. Maintain Legacy Web screens using VB6 and Visual Interdev. Duties covered all aspects of SDLC: Analysis, Design, Development, Quality Control and Deployment.    Project Descriptions:  1) Product Database: The Product Database is an Enterprise-wide resource used to create Health Insurance Plans. The application is written in both Visual Studio 2005 (C#, ASPX.NET) and Visual Interdev (VB6, Classic ASP). Transitioning between the technologies is handled by the Interop capabilities of VS by coding the Navigation properties in the configuration file. The ASPX configuration involved Web Forms referencing a Master Page. Coding for the ASPX pages utilized the following architecture in C#: the Web Form controls fired events in the code behind which called functions in a Controller Class. The controller fired functions in a Manager class. The manager class handled the bulk of the processing code as well as the Data Access (DB2 Back end). Data Access was handled using the ActiveX objects (ODBC) built into VS. An interface was created pointing to the Manager object. This interface was used by a Client Server Class and a Client Server Proxy which fired a Web Service. This architecture enabled any other modules within the application to execute the manager class code by calling the Web Service. The Classic ASP pages contained VBScript, JAVAScript and HTML code. Most of the processing was handled in VB6 Modules compiled into a DLL and instantiated in the VBScript code. Data Access to the DB2 database was handled by coding SQL statements and using ADO Objects or by sending the SQL Statement to a Mainframe COBOL program using IBM Web Sphere message queue.  2) Product Catalog: The Product Catalog enabled users to query a Windows Communication Foundation service in the VS 2005/VB6 Product Database Application. Since VS 2005 does not support WCF Services, some specialized coding had to be implemented. A Proxy was written in VS2010 calling the actual service. This proxy was compiled into a DLL and this DLL then referenced by the VS2005 application. The service requests consisted of an XML String (built with the StringBuilder functions), based on parameters entered through a Web Form. The service response was parsed using the Document Object Model functionality. The VB6 code also had to call the service; this was accomplished by calling the C# Web Service created for the Product Catalog Web Form.  3) Product DataGrid: I was tasked with making significant changes to the Product DataGrid. This application was written entirely using VB6 WinForms. This application enabled users to query/set the limits and rules applicable to Product Types. Data access utilized ADO objects accessing both IBM DB2 and MS SQL Server backends.  4) Small Group/Large Group Plan Queries: These queries consisted of stand-alone Web Services that returned XML to satisfy Health Insurance Plan parameter requests. These requests were usually originated by Government Agencies    For all of these projects, I was responsible for:    • Enabling local machine debugging by setting up Internet Information Service (IIS) properties  • Talking to the Business Users to get the requirements  • Documenting any necessary database changes  • Thoroughly testing the application in a test environment  • Promoting the Application to a Quality Assurance environment for Business User testing  • Promoting the application to a Production environment  • Generating any necessary documentation: Change Requests, Approvals Data Definitions, etc. Developer Commonwealth of Kentucky May 2007 to November 2007 Adapt WEB Portal (VB.Net and ASP.NET) for online queries. Create WINForms and WEBForms (VS2003) for inspections and reviews. Create associated Stored Procedures and Queries using MS SQL Server. Develop reports using Crystal Reports v.11. Create Use Cases for implementation of .NET application handling Licenses, Permits and Certifications. Education Associate Skills Use cases, Cases Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Microsoft Certified Application Developer January 2010 to Present Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) January 2010 to Present Additional Information Languages: C#.NET, TELERIK/Kendo UI components, DEV Express MVC components, VB.NET, Visual Studio.NET, Jquery, JavaScript, ASP.NET-MVC, ASP Classic, VB6, Visual Interdev, ADO.NET, POWERBUILDER., Crystal Reports, WCF    Methodologies: Agile, Yourdon Design and Development, Total Quality Initiative, Software Process Improvement, Use Cases