Freelance Web Developer Freelance <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Systems Eng II West New York, NJ Work Experience Freelance Web Developer West New York, NJ January 2015 to August 2019 • Worked closely with personal clients and implemented their ideas into digital projects to attract more customers.  • Met requirements and deliver projects on the given amount of time purposed by the client.  • Learned and worked with Google Analytics to see customer behavior and demographics. Systems Engineer II Hub City Media August 2019 • Worked closely with project Architect and Project Managers to deliver task or assignments on time.  • Followed Agile and Waterfall software methodologies to meet clients expectations and deadlines.  • Learned to work closely in a team oriented environment as well as individually.  • Planned and implemented IAM ideas using Forgerock products. Web Developer Intern Emagid - Manhattan, NY October 2015 to December 2015 • Worked closely with company graphic designer to implement his designs and wireframes into working products.  • Met project requirements to ensure timely delivery.  • Met requirements and deliver projects on the given amount of time.  • Learned and worked with WordPress, BitBucket, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript in a hands-on environment  Portfolio:  MD Directory: Software engineering project involving agile methodology, planning, version control, and cost. MD Directory displays doctors, clinics, and hospitals near a user's geographic area. http://fast-oasis-24569.herokuapp.com  Clifton Eye Specialist: Freelance project for area business to engage patients to MD. Luis Mendoza. Project required planning, deadline, cost, and SEO marketing. http://warm-ridge-65957.herokuapp.com/ Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science New Jersey City University - Jersey City, NJ January 2018 Associates Degree in Computer Science Hudson County Community College - Jersey City, NJ June 2011 Additional Information Technical Skills:  • Operating Systems/Productivity Tools: Windows XP, Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 10, Linux, macOS, Microsoft Office: Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Outlook, Microsoft PowerPoint.  • Database Systems: MySQL, Microsoft Access, Directory Services.  • Version Control: Bitbucket, GitHub.  • Programming Languages: Java, PHP, Visual Basic, JavaScript.  • Frameworks: Bootstrap, Node.js, Laravel.  • Miscellaneous: HTML, CSS, WordPress, Forgerock products, Ansible, Bash Scripting.