Senior Web Developer Senior <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Frontend Developer - DOMINOS PIZZA HEAD QUARTERS Ann Arbor, MI Work Experience Senior Web Developer Domino's Pizza Head Quarters - Ann Arbor, MI November 2017 to Present Primarily responsible for driving continuous improvement in Domino’s digital ordering experiences by providing rigorous web analytics and AB Testing insights to key leaders on the Digital Experience team.     In addition to above, was also responsible for creating pixel perfect landing pages using HTML/CSS, JQuery and upselling adds and marketing     Collateral using Adobe Suite that were introduced to viewers during the digital ordering experience.     Provide optimal AB and multivariate test designs for driving Digital Marketing Objectives     Provide feedback on creative, screen/page/layout optimization, step completion, UX, menu and ?ow optimization    Analyze tests and provide recommendations including reporting on conversion, ticket and pro?tability     Provide feedback on creative, screen/page/layout optimization, step completion, UX, menu and ?ow optimization Web Developer The Ford Motor Company - Detroit, MI February 2015 to November 2017 Followed the company’s standard design process to create mocks, wireframes and full color designs using Adobe Photoshop.     Converted PSDs into HTML/CSS using HTML5 and CSS3.     Designed and coded corporate employee portals as well as dealership facing portals.     Personally responsible for developing the UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JSON, jQuery.    Developed components in Angular 2.0 that were required for building an application from scratch.    Developed Page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to managers and business executives for review, feedback and approval In charge of setting up ReactJS framework for UI development.     Worked in managing VMs in Amazon using AWS and EC2 Web Developer Magnolia Bluffs Casino and Hotel - Mississippi January 2012 to December 2014 Designed and coded dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and JavaScript.     Converted HTML pages into fully responsive using CSS3. Completely owned the full process from start to finish from PSD to HTML/CSS to WordPress.     Designed individual pages and sections using Adobe Photoshop and Fireworks. Designed landing pages in photoshop and integrated into WordPress.     Created banner designs, posters, flyers and related marketing media     Updated weekly promotions with new designs     Integrated the website with a third-party reservation systems using API’s and UI customization Education Bachelors in Commerce RYERSON UNIVERSITY - Toronto, ON January 2012 to December 2014 Skills jQuery (8 years), PHOTOSHOP (10+ years), BOOTSTRAP (9 years), PHP (9 years), Illustrator (10+ years), Web Development (10+ years), Web Design (10+ years), Html5 (10+ years), Css3 (9 years), Wordpress (10+ years), Javascript (9 years), Angularjs (6 years), draftium (3 years), invision (4 years), react.js (6 years), Node.Js (7 years), LESS (8 years), SAAS (7 years), Codeigniter (6 years), laravel (7 years) Links http://danielk.me Additional Information I am Senior UI/UX Designer with over 12 years of professional experience and over 20 years as a hobby designer. I did my first creative design using a computer in Grade 6 and been in love with designing stuff ever since. I did my first professional designs and website back in 1997 using Photoshop and HTML and I’ve never looked back since.