Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - USPIS Work Experience Web Developer USPIS - Washington, DC August 2018 to Present - Maintain web sites on the Cloud  - Develop mobile-friendly websites that are responsive, 508-compliant and visually appealing.  - Work directly with stakeholders to execute projects that adhere to the agency brand and style guidelines.  - Manage website functionality, accessibility, content and architecture.  - Work independently as well as with team members on the full life cycle of website design and implementation.  - Establish timelines, prioritize workload, and provide detailed project plans to the Communications Director.  - Provide technical advice to Internet and Intranet content providers. Freelance Graphic Designer Upper Marlboro, MD January 2015 to Present -Meet with clients to determine the scope of a project  -Create images that identify a product or convey a message  -Develop graphics/visual images for product illustrations, logos, and websites  -Select colors, images, text style, and layout Hardware Specialist Spatial Front Inc/Department - Suitland, MD May 2017 to June 2018 - Review computer systems in terms of machine capabilities/non machine interfaces.  - Prepare reports and studies  - Prepare functional requirements and specifications for hardware acquisitions.  - Ensure problems have been properly identified & solutions satisfy user requirements.  - Work on laptop imaging imaging, configuring, and deploying. Web Developer/Database Manager Diversity in Transition - Baltimore, MD August 2016 to December 2016 -Create website layout interfaces  -Design, modify, and test websites' layout and function according to a client's specifications.  -Create visually appealing sites that feature user-friendly design and clear navigation.  -Integrating data from various back-end services and databases Financial Services Assistant Towson University - Towson, MD January 2016 to December 2016 21252  -Process and prepare financial and business forms  -Help oversee and manage individual accounts  -Database/Information System Management  -Tax Information, Faxing, Filing, Data Entry  -Reconcile discrepancies/errors by conversing with employees/clients  -Collect information for and prepare advanced reports Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Towson University - Towson, MD December 2016 Skills Css, Imaging, Data analysis, Dbms, Dhcp, System administration, Client/server, Computer programming, Hci, Html (3 years), Javascript (1 year), Php (1 year), Python (1 year), Visual basic, Usability, Usability testing (Less than 1 year), Disaster recovery, Linux, Java, Card sorting, HTML5, Wordpress, Front End, Bootstrap Additional Information Operating Systems: (Windows/Mac Operating System Administration (Linux, Windows)  Systems, Linux) Web Development (HTML. CSS, PHP, Joomla),  Microsoft Office Suite (2003-19) Computer. Programming Languages (JAVA,  Network Infrastructure JavaScript, Python)  Desktop Imaging/Virtual Environment Installed and configured workstations  Troubleshooting of Computer Hardware Devices Computer assembling and maintenance.  Installing configuring administrating software Installed and configured DHCP Client/Server  applications Backup Management, Reporting and Recovery  Disaster Recovery/Virus Protection and Data Analysis  Eradication  DBMS (Access, Visual Basic)    Skills  Desktop Publishing Software: Photoshop, Illustrator, HTML, CSS, JavaScript  Microsoft Office Suite: Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Project  HCI: Card Sorting, Usability Testing, Accessibility Training  Some Computer Programming -- Mainly Java  Attention to Detail