Android Developer Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Android Developer - Capital One Wilmington, DE Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Android Developer Capital One - Wilmington, DE April 2018 to Present Project: Credit Wise  App Link: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.capitalone.credittracker&hl=en    Scope here was to design & develop "Credit Wise" an app to track and monitor the credit score of any individual regardless of any credit card company. It maintains all the credit card accounts details like balance etc. at one place and it alerts the users about changes in the Capital One credit score. It lets you know the factors affecting the credit score.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Followed Agile methodology with SCRUM framework to complete the project in iterations.  ? Coordinating with Architecture group on innovative designs and foundational/ infrastructural application changes.  ? Developed the application using MVP pattern.  ? Involved in the development of the Login authentication process using token services for the secure authorization and authentication on the application.  ? Collaborated on the UI Design migration to new views for a better and engaging user experience.  ? Worked on consuming the REST services by handling HTTP based REST API request and response by using Volley.  ? Integrated Google Analytics into the application to understand more about the user's experience and preferences.  ? Used standard Android components like activities, f services and created custom views for the application.  ? Implemented several types of Layouts for User Interface.  ? Developed UI layers with View Pager, Navigation drawer, and Fragments within the application.  ? Customized the UI controls like Buttons, Tool bars etc.  ? Implemented Parcelable objects to send across activities.  ? Developed utility classes to handle Validations of user information using regex functions.  ? Used Async Tasks to avoid ANRs in the activity.  ? Dealing with the Shared Preferences to store User data and maintain the user login session.  ? Worked with Fiddler, a tool used to debug GET & POST API calls & responses.  ? Involved in Continuous Integration, Code optimization and troubleshoot issues as required.  ? Used Butter knife library for code optimization and performance tuning.  ? Used Lint tool to test the code redundancy, usability, security and performance.  ? Performed debugging using ADB commands and tested application in device using Logcat, DDMS.  ? Involved in performing unit testing using JUnit, Mockito and UI testing using UI Automator.  Environment: Android SDK, Eclipse IDE, JDK 1.6, RESTFUL Web services, Fiddler, Butter knife library, UI Automator, JSON, DDMS console, Logcat, ADB, JIRA, Lint, SVN Android Developer Universal Studios - Orlando, FL April 2016 to April 2018 This project was to provide all the details about the theme parks, universal Citi walk and about resort hotels. Our app is free to download and user friendly. User can set parking reminders, use filters to find and sort parks, rides, shopping and dining. Our app provides user to get a place in the virtual line and get the return time to race through amazing rides. Our app allows purchasing tickets, universal express passes and universal dining plans.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for remodifying the existing code and to enhance the performance of the entire application.  ? Integrated Broadcast Receivers with Intent Filters to provide Android system announcements and stored the information such as name, time, place, date, etc., about an event by designing a SQLite database.  ? Further, worked on ROOM migration, which takes care of all the SQL queries.  ? Implemented notify data change methods whenever the customer's account has been updated or changed.  ? Implemented activities, linear, frame, relative layouts, and fragments. Display information by designing Recycler view which is a powerful layout to display list views.  ? Designed custom dialogs, custom notifications for displaying the generated payment code  ? Incorporated event reminder feature into the mobile app using services Asynchronous tasks, Alert Notification API and for other execution threads using Multi-Threading.  ? For processing network response data and for efficient JSON parsing used Retrofit.  ? Involved in working on location nearby agents using Google API's to enable the visitors to navigate to the agent and call the agent directly.  ? Worked on Elevation shadows, Card and List widgets in android with material design for styling and animation of the UI.  ? Implemented Recycler and Grid Views which is advancement of List View, to make the continuous loading of data in a smooth scrollable.  ? Involved in detecting the device rotation by implementing the Accelerometer using the Sensor Event Listeners.  ? Used GET, PUT, POST and DELETE for a regular interaction of RESTful API design calls to populate the UI on the app.  ? Integrated alert dialogues about the important accounts and security information by implementing Toast messages.  ? Responsible for consuming the REST services, getting JSON response and parsing them to get the required Information using GSON.  ? Used GIT and BITBUCKET for project management and version control  ? Performed unit-testing for code robustness, including edge cases, usability, and general reliability  ? Worked on Dagger 2.0, Butter Knife and Rx-java to inject the dependencies  ? For representing, modifying and composing the data sources used Rx Java and written test cases using Espresso, Junit.  ? Debugged the code using TDD (TEST DRIVEN DEVELOPMENT) and eliminated the occurrence of expectations.  ? Also used Logcat, Tombstones, DDMS (Dalvik Debug Monitor Server) for debugging and detecting memory leaks.  ? For implementing native audio, Exporting Modules and managing native app's activity lifecycle used Native Android SDK.  ? Performed search operation by integrating search widgets using collections. To help the user to track the order, implemented PUSH notification.  ? To store and retrieve persistent key-value pairs across user sessions used shared preferences.  ? Different Orientation patterns were performed for accessing on all the android devices  ? Whenever app goes to background, to show the login screen and to provide the security used Application Activity Lifecycle callbacks.  Environment: Android SDK, Android Studio, JSON, GSON, Rest API, Logcat, XML, GIT, Dagger, Retrofit, Rx Java, JUnit, Agile Environment, okHttp Web Developer Inside View Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2013 to November 2015 Inside View is software as a service (SaaS) company that gleans insights and relationships from more than 40,000 sources of business information, contact data, online news, and social media and customer CRM data. Founded in 2005, Inside View is mainly used by marketing, sales, and operations teams in identifying and gathering information on customers.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Designed the Web application layout and forms using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, jQuery.  ? Responsible for creating the screens with table less design following W3C standards.  ? Wrote code to fetch data from Web services using jQuery, AJAX via JSON response and updating the HTML pages.  ? Wrote application level code to perform client-side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  ? Fixed bugs and provided support services for the application.  ? Handled all the client-side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation using jQuery.  ? Used AJAX calls for data updates in UI along with JSON data parsing.  ? Used jQuery and AJAX to create attractive animations and smooth transitions for a better user experience.  ? Used jQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree.  ? Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework.  ? Used jQuery for creating various widgets, data manipulation, data traversing, from validations, create the content on the fly depend on the user request, implementing AJAX features for the application.  ? Used SVN for version control and defect tracking.  ? Participated in day-to-day meeting, status meeting, strong reporting and effective communication with project manager and developers.  ? Designed applications that execute on various browsers such as Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome using various debugging tools like Firebugs/IE Developer Tools.  ? Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers.  Environment: HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Jasmine, Karma, SCSS (SASS), Responsive Design Education Master's Degree in Computer & Information Systems in Computer & Information Systems iGlobal University 2017 Bachelor's Degree in Information Technology in Information Technology NT University - Hyderabad, Telangana 2013 Skills Android studio, Firebase, Git, Html, Javascript, Json, Php, Svn, Android, Android sdk, Database, Mysql, Sqlite, Eclipse, Java, Jdk, jquery, Css, Cvs, Frameworks Additional Information ? Result-driven IT Professional with referable & strong experience in Design and Development of Android Applications using Android SDK, Eclipse IDE, Android Studio, SQL, SQLite, Java, XML, JSON.  ? Expert on Android SDK, Web Services, JSON, Eclipse IDE, SQLite database, Activities, Services, and able to design the applications from the requirement.  ? Experience designing, developing, and debugging deploying software development using Java.  ? Proficient with common Android framework APIs (Email, Web View, Google Maps, Telephony API, Camera, Contact Manager)  ? Experience with Android storage mechanisms like SQLite database, Internal Storage and Shared preferences for storing the application data.  ? Experience in various methodologies like of SDLC like Agile development.  ? Experience with Atlassian tools like Bit Bucket, JIRA.  ? Strong knowledge of Web Services (SOAP, RESTful).  ? Good understanding of JSON Parsing.  ? Good understanding of MVC.  ? Experience with adaptable layouts, including extensive building of view layouts in resource XML and code.  ? Experience with the Gradle builds system.  ? Experience working with different operating systems like Windows and Mac.  ? Versatile team player with Good analytical, presentation and interpersonal skills with an aptitude to learn innovative technologies.    Technical competencies:    Android OS: Android 2.2 to Android 6.0 (Gingerbread, Honey Comb, Ice Cream Sandwich, Jellybean, Kit Kat, Lollipop, Marshmallow)  Languages: Java, jQuery, JSON, PHP  IDE: Eclipse, Android Studio  Database: SQLite, FireBase, MySQL  Frameworks: Android SDK, Java Development Kit (JDK)  Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, JavaScript  Source Control: CVS, SVN, GIT Hub, SourceTree, BitBucket