Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer Los Angeles, CA I am a software expert who has developed products for clients such as B Riley Financial, Hosa Tech, and StoneFire Grill, as well as many other businesses. Building elegant solutions to problems is what fuels my creativity and drives me to produce clean and high performing applications. My objective is simply to be the best developer I can be and continue to contribute to the tech industry by learning from seasoned developers, remaining humble, and continuously making strides to learn all that I can about development. As a firm believer that teamwork is the secret that makes common people achieve results. I have done work in software development, mobile app creation, front-end/back-end web, database/server, and graphic design. I’m an outgoing individual that likes to learn and on the weekends surf and hike.    SKILLS  Javascript, Node.js, React.js(Redux),jQuery,SASS,CSS,Laravel, MySQL, MongoDB, Wordpress, and experience with Java, C, VB.net    OPERATING SYSTEMS:  Windows, Linux, Mac OS    TOOLS  Git, Express.js , Grunt.js ,Babel, Webpack, phpMyAdmin, Command Line, SFTP, SSH    FLUENT LANGUAGES:  English, Spanish Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Developer Vivid Candi - Malibu, CA 2014 to 2019 Role consisted of developing applications that utilize Javascript frontend and PHP backend. Integrated Rest API's to create dynamic web pages. Created and extended rest apis. Extended Wordpress functionality beyond original design. Well versed in creating responsive web pages. Wrote and extended WordPress plugins. Wrote MySQL to create components that would interact with a CMS. Tasked with creating reusable components. Creating HTML5 structured pages that were SEO optimized. In addition to coding, providing QA and technical support to clients was a major part of this role alongside fellow programmer mentorship. Web Developer Extima - El Segundo, CA 2013 to 2014 Web Development role tasked with creating projects using PHP, SQL, Javascript, HTML5, and CSS3 on the Wordpress platform. The main tasks of this role were development and ensuring projects were completed on time according to specifications. Education Associate of Applied Science in Computer Programming Santa Monica College - Santa Monica, CA 2016 Skills Git, Javascript, Node.js, Redux, Webpack, Laravel, Vb.net, Sass, Mysql, Mongodb, Sftp, Java, jquery, Linux, Css, Wordpress, Mac, Mac os, Node, Angular, React, Nodejs, PHP, NET Links http://Nityanandahoyos.com Additional Information SKILLS    Javascript, Node.js, React.js(Redux), jQuery, SASS, CSS, Laravel, MySQL, MongoDB, Wordpress, and experience with Java, C, VB.net    OPERATING SYSTEMS:    Windows, Linux, Mac OS    FLUENT LANGUAGES:     English, Spanish    TOOLS    Git, Express.js, Grunt.js, Babel, Webpack, phpMyAdmin, Command Line, SFTP, SSH