Technology Specialist Technology Specialist Work Experience Technology Specialist TIAA-CREF - Unified Desktop 2013 to Present Unified Desktop contains many modules. Each module will define the customer's details, policy details, loans, accounts, contact history and  many.    CLIENT DESCRIPTION:  (TIAA-CREF) is a Fortune 100 financial services organization that is the leading retirement provider for people who work in the academic,  research, medical and cultural fields. TIAA-CREF serves 3.7 million active  and retired employees participating at more than 15,000 institutions and has $453 billion in combined assets under management.    ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES:  ? Involved in Client meetings, Getting requirements and duration.  ? Involved in Analyzing the Project.  ? Design & Development for the Application.  ? Involved in Unit and Peer-to-Peer Testing. Senior Web Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions, Tambaram MEPZ - Tambaram, TAMIL NADU, IN 2010 to Present Angular 2+, React js ( Self  Currently having 8 + years of experience I started my career with Learning )  Cognizant as a Programmer Analyst Trainee and gained professional  knowledge all these years in Front End UI technologies. Been a part of AJAX/JSON  several client accounts in different domains and got experienced in Agile  Bootstrap, SASS.  process. Developed good communication skills through interactions with the clients directly. The hunger to learn new technologies is still on. Web Developer ESTEE LAUDER - EL Phase 2 2012 to 2013 From 2012 till 2013 )  The primary process involved in this project is Rollout activities.  Functionalities and requirements do change based on Regions, hence  development activities occurs at this scenarios. As a Web Developer, I was  asked to work on scripting, layout issues, Responsive Web Design since the site is tested across mobiles and Pad.    CLIENT DESCRIPTION:  The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. is an American manufacturer and marketer of prestige skincare, makeup, fragrance and hair care products.  The company has its headquarters in Midtown Manhattan, New York City.    ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES:  ? Requirement Analysis  ? Handling the layout and scripting issues across browsers, Android, Iphone, Ipad.  ? To fix the bugs in quick time.  ? Develop quality HTML and CSS.  ? Involved in Unit and Peer-to-Peer Testing. CCC Information Services Inc 2011 to 2012 Development of individual modules for a phase called Identity  Management. Technology used was Javascript blending with JSF. Browser  Compatibility.    CLIENT DESCRIPTION:  CCC Information Services Inc. (CCC) is a leading provider of technology-based business solutions for the automotive claims  processing. Founded in 1980, CCC Information Services Inc. supplies the automotive claims and collision repair industries with advanced collision  estimation software, communications systems, and Internet and wireless-enabled technology.    ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES:  ? Elegantly implemented page designs in standards-compliant  dynamic XHTML and CSS.  ? Implemented functionality in Plain JavaScript.  ? Create rapid prototypes of interfaces to be used as a blueprint for content and technical development.  ? work closely with back-end developers to find ways to push the limits of existing Web technology in service of creating the best  possible user experience. American Express - AppCache - Manhattan, NY December 2010 to October 2011 United States. Founded in 1850, it is one of the 30 components of the Dow Jones Industrial Average. The company is  best known for its credit card, charge card and traveler's cheque business.  Amex cards account for approximately 24% of the total dollar volume of credit card transactions in the US, the highest of any card issuer.    ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES:  ? Elegantly implemented page designs in standards-compliant  dynamic XHTML and CSS.  ? Implemented functionality in jQuery.  ? Collaborate with the design team to define the information  architecture, advocating Web interaction design best practices with a focus on consistency and usability  ? Browser compatibility  ? Express Scan Reports MetLife - MetLife Re-Design July 2010 to November 2010 The primary objectives of this project are to Re-design the whole site from Jquery to Javascript.    CLIENT DESCRIPTION:  MetLife Bank is a federally chartered bank that began serving its customers in 2001. With more than $10 billion in customer deposits (as of 11/30/09), we're ranked as one of the top 100 commercial banks in the United States, * by  American Banker. We're also a MetLife company - committed to helping our customers build financial freedom through both our deposit and home financing product offerings, including reverse mortgages.    ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES:  ? Requirement Analysis.  ? Doing research in HTML, CSS and Javascript  ? The web page should be browser compatible.  ? Creating Technical document for the components created.  ? Unit Testing. Education B.tech in Technology RMD Engineering College - Chennai, Tamil Nadu 2005 to 2009