Web UI Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web UI Developer - Intermedix Corporation Pleasanton, CA • Around 6+ years of extensive experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in developing and designing user experiences of Internet/Intranet applications in various domains like E-commerce, Health and Finance.  • Experience in developing web-applications using HTML5, XHTML, DHTML, CSS3, DOM, JavaScript(Es5&Es6), Type Script, JQuery, Ajax, JSON, XML, AngularJS1.5, Angular 2, React JS, Backbone.JS, Knockout.JS, Require JS, Node JS, Cordova, Grunt.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, DJango, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Expertise in JavaScript coding and concepts like closures, promises, prototypal inheritance.  • Good experience in deploying server-side real-time web applications Node JS and Express JS with the help of Node Package Manager (npm).  • Hands on experience in designing and developing Single Page Applications using Angular JS, Angular 2.0, Angular 4, react JS and Node JS.  • Experience in writing Components, Pipes and Services to separate concern and handle different situations by using Angular2/4.  • Expertise in building Custom Directives in Angular JS making use of Modules and Filters according to the application requirement.  • Strong focuses on a Mobile First approach and Responsive Web Design and use Agile Software Development for better workflow and results  • Hands on experience in React.JS, working with Redux and Flux architecture, Webpack module bundler. Proficient in building React JS web pages with JSX, React components.  • Experience in working MVC Architecture and also in using version control (SVN), Experience in developing applications using Angular JS-Bootstrap like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, Combo-Box and Button etc.  • Strong web development skills with web 2.0 framework, JSP & MVC and, CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript, DHTML, AngularJS  • Experience on working with CSS background, Layouts, Positioning, Text, Border, Padding, Pseudo Classes, Elements and CSS behaviors in CSS, Worked with CSS preprocessors like SAAS/LESS.  • Extensive experience in web design using CSS3, D3js, Bootstrap, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Photoshop, Dreamweaver.  • Solid experience building Responsive Web Design (RWD) for different types of devices like tablets and mobiles using Bootstrap and CSS Media Queries.  • Excellent skills in creating and accessing various databases like Oracle, MySQL, SQL server and NoSQL database like MongoDB.  • Experience creating cloud bid data solutions utilizing Azure PaaS solution such as HDInsight, Azure Data Warehouse, Azure Data Lake, Azure Data factory and Azure Analytics Services  • Good experience with authentication middleware Passport.js and event based bi-directional communication library Socket.io.  • Solid experience with Responsive Web Design (RWD) using Bootstrap, CSS media queries.  • Hands on experience with building automating tasks using Gulp and Grunt.  • Working knowledge on dynamic data visualization using D3.js and Angular Fusion Charts.  • Experience in CI/CD with Jasmine, QUnit, Karma, Mocha, Chai, Jenkins, Protractor.  • Hands on experience with Amazon Web Services Cloud (AWS) like EC2.  • End to End solution for hosting the web application on AWS cloud with integration to S3 buckets  • Excellent in backend/server-side stack, I've built large scale applications with Node.js with relational (MySQL) and non-relational databases such as MongoDB.  • Strong Technical knowledge on Migration of applications from Angular.js to React.js.  • Expertise in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Experience in building application with React JS, Redux, Require JS, in MVC architecture.  • Expertise in React.JS framework and integrate them to Node JS server side code.  • Hands-on of knowledge in using JSON and AJAX to link with back-end applications.  • Expertise creating user validation forms and sending data to server using Restful services.  • Expertise in working on AWS to integrate Server and Client side code.  • Hands-on experience in AWS cloud resources to better achieve a lower cost and higher performance/uptime.  • Experience in Using SASS and LESS, Groovy Scripting.  • Expertise in Utilizing Jasmine, Karma, Mocha and NPM to build and test applications.  • Experience in version control tools like GIT, continuous integration tools like Jenkins.  • Worked with JIRA, Bugzilla for bug-tracking and JSLint for ensuring quality code.  • Experience working in Scrum environment of agile methodology for development.  • Sound knowledge in working with browsers compatibility issues with browsers like IE, Firefox, Safari, Opera, Chrome.  • Participation in Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC) preparing Requirement Specification documents, design documents, Test cases and Analysis, User Training documents and Technical Help documents.  • An experienced software developer, passionate about delivering quality software products with thorough & accurate testing and ample documentation. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web UI Developer Intermedix Corporation - Nashville, TN October 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Built rich prototypes for designing and developing dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript(ES6), Angular 2, Express, Node.JS, MongoDB, NPM, JSON, AJAX, SAAS etc.  • Developed and Designed Angular JS Migration to Angular 2 and Angular 4.  • Worked on Angular 4 with typescript 2.1.  • Involved in design, development and testing phases of project and involved in design, analysis, and architectural meetings with client.  • Worked on Angular2 routers, components, custom directives, services & form validations  • Worked on child components and parent component creations, with different interfaces, classes, constructors, and other oops concepts of typescript.  • Implemented Angular 2 Router to enable navigation from one view to the next as user performs application tasks.  • Used Rxjs in Angular2 to make the HTTP requests to the REST API for getting the user details.  • Created typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using component based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Used Angular 2 to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Used Angular JS2 concepts such as services to share the data between the controllers.  • Created numerous custom pipes in AngularJS2 to modify the user entered data.  • Created custom validations, defined prototypes, achieved inheritance using new concepts of JavaScript(Es6)  • Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Responsible for React UI and architecture. Building components library, including Tree, Slide-View, and Table Grid.  • Used CSS Preprocessors like LESS and SASS to make CSS more efficient.  • Implemented ng2-google charts, ngx-cookie- service and ng2-dragula.  • Used priming data tables, messages and primeng drag and drop in Angular4.  • Updated the application with new features of Angular 4.  • Evaluate current applications and recommend processes to move applications into Angular-CLI and Angular 4/5 with backend services.  • Used momentjs and wrote generic classes for time zones.  • Used D3.js to implement data visualization by displaying charts.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Exception Handling, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements.  • Designed the application using Spring 4.0 framework as the integration tool.  • Worked on core java concepts like Multi-threading, Inheritance and Polymorphism etc.  • Implemented the applications as an MVC using Spring MVC and handled custom validations using Form beans and XML.  • Designed Spring Controller to handle requests from users and return results, Spring Validators to verify requests, Spring Interceptors to check user status, and generate alert messages.  • Created the Node.js Server using Express.js and from front-end side Angular 2, backend is MongoDB.  • Converted data from database into JSON format files and retrieve useful information using AJAX calls to render the response in UI.  • Performing CRUD operations like Update, Insert and Delete data in MongoDB  • Created Responsive Designs (Mobile/Tablet/Desktop) using HTML5 & CSS3.  • Design and Development of Web and Hybrid Mobile Applications using Ionic framework  • Used new technique of CSS3 called Media Queries to attract the users whenever the page resolutions are changed.  • Incorporated MVC architecture using spring framework  • Improved performance of the application by optimizing REST calls, and minifying the JavaScript code, making more reusable components, and writing modular, industry standard and uncluttered code.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and GIT for code repository and version control  • Wrote test plans and performed unit testing and performance testing using Jasmine and Karma.  • Followed Test Driven Development to minimize errors that can creep up in later stages.  • Developed the pages that are complaint to W3C and ADA standards  • Testing, evaluation and troubleshooting of different NoSQL database systems and cluster configurations to ensure high-availability in various crash scenarios.  • Leading role in UI framework design, fixing cross browser challenges and service layer exception handling.  • Used GIS applications/tools that allow us to create interactive queries (user-created searches), analyze spatial information, edit data in maps, and present the results of all these operations Performed.  • Worked with diverse team of product owners and UX designers in fast paced environment, with quick iterative cycles.    Environment: Angular 2.0, Ionic, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap3, SASS, JavaScript (ES6), JQuery, Moment.js, Node.js (4.1.1), JSON, AJAX, MEAN stack (MongoDB (2.2.4), Express.js (4.14.0), Angular 2.0, Node JS, NOSQL, Grunt, Jasmine, Karma, Jenkins, JIRA, GIT. UI Developer United Airlines - Chicago, IL September 2016 to October 2017 Project: E-Commerce website Developer    Responsibilities:  • Developed fully functional responsive modules based on Business Requirements using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, SASS, JavaScript/ES6, JQuery, JQuery plug in, React.js.  • Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  • Involved in creating reusable UI components to render view pages using ReactJS along with Redux.  • Implemented React-Redux life cycle boiler plate scripts to decrease the project duration.  • Worked on Lifecycle methods, State, Specs, Props, Routers and Events to create interactive and stateful react components.  • Utilized React-Redux Action Creators, create Store from redux library to connect reducers and containers, to update the state and virtual DOM.  • Implemented React-Express-Middleware for rending components and routing.  • Managed projects with Web pack and combined with Bower package manager to install JavaScript latest version of libraries based on running in the Node.js environment.  • Used ECMA script 6 with React.js and used BABEL to transpile the code to ECMAscript5.  • Created the schema and wrote middleware to store the data on Mongoose, MongoDB.  • Installation of No SQL , MongoDB on physical machines, Virtual machines as well as AWS Cloud  • Mainly responsible for developing Restful API using spring framework. Developed different controllers that return the response both in JSON and XML based on the request type.  • Processed JSON data from RESTful web services by using Ajax to get resources from the database and populated data to the client side.  • Designed a REST API service based on PHP MVC Framework (Laravel) to support Mobile and Desktop applications.  • Implemented a mobile focused front-end using React, Typescript, and JavaScript with a custom backbone using RESTful services. Designed UI layout and flow for users, wrote Cordova plugins, and built custom react components.  • Developed dynamic data visualizations by using D3.js (Data Document Driven).  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Exception Handling, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements.  • Experience in gathering Geodata for company that have many branches, different schematics maps using Geographic information system (GIS)  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Worked with networking teams in configuring AWS Direct Connect to establish dedicated connection to datacenters and AWS Cloud.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks  • Configured an AWS Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) and Database Subnet Group for isolation of resources within the Amazon RDS MySql DB cluster.  • Configured, supported and maintained all networks, firewall, storage, load balancers, operating systems and software in AWS Cloud EC2.  • Implemented various resources in Azure using Azure Portal, PowerShell on Azure Resource Manager Deployment models. Experience deploying Infrastructure as Code (IoC) applications using ARM Templates (JSON).  • Worked with Jasmine in testing and performed Unit testing and execution testing utilizing JUNIT  • Used the Mozilla Firefox extension, Firebug, developer tools to view and debug HTML, DOM and JavaScript.  • Performed Unit testing on applications using tools Mocha and Chai by following Test Driven Development, used JIRA for bug tracking and JSLint for ensuring quality code.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration and continuous deployment pipeline.  • Used GIT as version control tool to update work progress and attended daily Scrum sessions.    Environment: ReactJs, Redux, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap3, SASS, JavaScript(ES/5&ES6), Cordova JS AJAX, JSON, XML, JQuery, Axios, MERN stack (MongoDB (2.2.4), Express.js (4.13.0), React, Node.js (4.1.1),), NOSQL, Mocha, Chai, Jenkins, Jasmine, JIRA, Git. UI Developer Carls Zeiss - Pleasanton, CA August 2015 to September 2016 Project: Mobile development    Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering the requirements, analysis, design and development of the project.  • Designed and developed Web Responsive Screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Require.JS and Bootstrap.  • Implemented designed patterns like Factory pattern, Singleton Pattern, Builder Pattern, Prototype Pattern and etc.  • Extensively used LESS (Dynamic Style Sheet Language) while styling with CSS3.  • Used Knockout.JS to bind HTML to JavaScript Objects and to create Single page application (SPA).  • Heavy use of Knockout view models for separation of UI, data, and logic concerns.  • Proficient in developing applications using MVC and MVVM design patterns.  • Customized Restful Web Service using Restful API, sending JSON format data packets between front-end and middle-tier controller.  • Utilized Hibernate-ORM to map customer data with database tables  • Performed DOM manipulations, create Templates, Custom Directives, Controllers, and established two-way Data binding using Angular JS.  • Extensively used Angular UI (Angular Bootstrap) for ng-grid, and UI components.  • Used Chrome plug-in called Responsive Web Design(RWD) to check application Responsiveness  • Implemented Dependency injection (DI) using Angular injector for creating components, resolving their dependencies, and providing them components as requested.  • Created custom Angular directive and services.  • Successfully handled JSON data and carried out JSON parsing for form submissions and DOM manipulation  • Developed UI components for email and link sharing of documents and files for a Content Management System using Backbone.JS and jQuery.  • Karma for JS test-runner built with node.js and Microsoft Fakes framework for unit test of Server side code.  • Implemented Caching, Session State, Cookie Management, View State, POST and GET techniques.  • Involved in Unit testing, integration testing and deployment of the application  • Used JIRA ticketing system to keep track of issues and Version One ALM tool for tracking work flow of User stories.  • Used Tortoise SVN for source code repository and versioning.  • Code Reviews and Demo of progress to Business owners every sprint.  • Participated in daily Scrums (Agile) with the whole team to discuss about the progress of the application development, specs to be taken care and specs that already completed.    Environment: Knockout.JS, Angular JS 1.x, LESS, HTML5, Web Services, Karma, node.js, Require.js, Navigation.JS, Web API, REST, Share point, AGILE, MVVM, OOPs, SOLID, XML, CSS 3, Angular.JS, UX, jQuery, windows server 2008 R2, LINQ, IIS 7.0, AJAX Toolkit, WPF, JIRA, Tortoise SVN. Web UI Developer HDFC Bank, APN Consulting Inc - Arlington, VA July 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed GUI using JavaScript, Angular.JS, HTML4, DOM, AJAX, and CSS2.  • Created responsive design using Bootstrap and worked with JSP templates and Node.js.  • Wrote various PHP scripts in the header, footer, multiple contact pages, etc  • Used HTTP service for exchanging JSON data between client and server.  • Used Content Management systems like WordPress and Drupal to build the website.  • Used various drag and Drop Features of Drupal and implemented custom designs and functionalities using JavaScript.  • Extensively designed Services and Filters for customization.  • Developed Web Services for data transfer from client to server and vice versa using Spring MVC, SOAP, WSDL, and UDDI.  • Handled Client end validations and DOM manipulations through Java Script and designed Front End with Object Oriented JavaScript Framework  • Used Angular router to navigate to different templates.  • Extensively used Bootstrap to achieve the Responsive web design.  • Developed SOAP based Web Services for Integrating with the Enterprise Information System Tier.  • Used Mongo DB along with Node.js, as a database to store JSON.  • Used Node JS to interact with Restful web services along with the interaction of databases.  • Creating custom UI components and implemented UI MVC framework.  • Involved in writing Junit test cases, Used Agile Methodology for software development.  • Upgraded SQL queries in improving the overall performance and rendering time of the reports.  • Created dropdown list using AngularJS UI Bootstrap for different tabs within the sidebar like Academic resources, Career Services.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari, internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome with the help of frameworks of AngularJS and other JS libraries. Used Git as repository.    Environment: HTML, CSS2, JavaScript, Angular.js 1.3.18, Node.js, AJAX, JSON, XML, ECLIPSE, SVN, Bootstrap, Apache, PHP, and MongoDB Web Developer Value Labs - Chantilly, VA June 2011 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Creating Front-end Applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Elegant implementation of page designs in standards-compliant HTML and CSS.  • Developed all the UI pages using HTML, XUL, DHTML, XSL/XSLT, XHTML, DOM, CSS, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, and Ajax.  • Created XHTML Pages with CSS and the Box Model.  • Using advanced level of JQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  • Used JQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree.  • Developed the UI using ASP. NET and C#. Used ASP.NET User Controls, Custom Controls and Data Grid Web Control.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Developed web pages using HTML, Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), JavaScript and ASP.NET controls.  • Developed SQL Queries to interact with Oracle database.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML, CSS2.  • Developed the validations by using JavaScript.  • Designed interactive ASP.NET MVC views using JQuery, HTML, CSS, and AJAX to provide excellent user experience.  • Used JQuery, Ajax for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  • Created SQL queries to perform insert, update or delete operations on MySQL database.  • Used Waterfall methodology for the software development.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Dreamweaver, AJAX, JSON, MS Office,C#,ASP.Net PL/SQL and SVN, Bootstrap2, XML, MySQL, C#, ASP.Net Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), JSON (7 years), AJAX (7 years), jQuery (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming/Scripting Languages: Tools & IDE:  C, C++, C#, HTML 4&5, CSS 2 & 3, JavaScript, Eclipse, Sublime Text, Notepad++, visual  EcmaScript6, JQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, studio code, Atom, Visual Studio 2012 & 2015  Media Queries, JSON, SASS, .NET    SDLC Processes: Web Server:  Agile, Waterfall: Apache Tomcat 6.0, 7.0, 8.0    JavaScript Libraries and frameworks Testing & Debugging Tools  jQuery, Angular.js 1.x, Node.js, Angular2.0, Chrome, Safari, Firebug, Web Debugger,  D3.JS, React.JS Jasmine, Qunit, Karma    Web Services Version Control  JSON, AJAX, RESTful Git, SVN    Reporting Tools Data Base  D3.js, AngularJS Fusion Charts MongoDB, SQL Server 2012 & 2014    Cloud Technologies:  Amazon Web Services (AWS) - EC2, VPC,  S3, RDS, Glacier, Aurora, EBS, ELB, SQS, SNS,  Auto scaling etc