Front End Web Developer Front End <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Web Developer - Citi Group Irving, TX • 8+ Years of experience in Software Design, Development and Testing. Expertise in Designing and Developing Web applications.  • Extensive experience in designing professional UI web applications and front-end technologies like HTML, DHTML, XML, XHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, Flash and CSS.  • Experience in working JSON, AJAX, AngularJS, BackboneJS and Bootstrap.  • Strong working knowledge of HTML5, CSS3.  • Excellent working knowledge and thorough exposure on compatibility issues with different versions of browsers like IE, Mozilla FF, and Chrome.  • Extensively used the JavaScript frameworks jQuery.  • Experienced in designing Using Web Standards.  • Developed websites using JavaScript frameworks such as AngularJS and BackBoneJS.  • Experienced in developing table-less layouts.  • Good Understanding and hands on experience with FBML. (Facebook Markup Language)  • Good Knowledge on how to implement user-centered design (UCD) methodology.  • Expertise in Client Side designing and validations using HTML, HTML5 and JavaScript.  • Experience with Firebug for Mozilla, Developer Toolbar for Chrome and IE Developer Toolbar for Internet Explorer.  • Sound Understanding and good Experience with Object Oriented Programming Concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript and Implementation.  • Good Experience working with High Traffic Websites.  • Worked extensively in Agile Development process.  • Hands on experience with all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Expert in documentation using MS tools (Word, Excel, PPT, Project, Visio, and Access).  • Possess excellent communication and Problem Solving skills and the ability to work as a team member, as well as independently.  • Experience working with a wide range of applications in all phases.  • Known for ability to multi-task and work on different applications at the same time. Work Experience Front End Web Developer Citi Group - Irving, TX March 2014 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved with all stages of Software Development Life Cycle.  • Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Wrote application level code to perform client side validation using JQUERY, JavaScript.  • Designed the front end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, CSS, Backbone.js and Bootstrap.  • Using advanced level of JQUERY, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  • Wrote JQUERY function while implementing various UI Screens across the whole web application (both consumer facing as well as internal application).  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS.  • Interacted with java controllers (JQUERY, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems).  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development.  • Developed HTML views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON, ORCHARD CMS and AngularJS  • Used SVN for version control and QC for defect tracking.  • Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  • Define technical requirements based upon business requirements.  • Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Strong communication, analytical and interpersonal skills working within cross-functional teams.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, XML, Angularjs, Bootstrap, Backbone.js and MS Office. Web Developer Ameriprise Financial - Minneapolis, MN June 2013 to February 2014 Responsibilities  • Built pages from Photoshop mockups using JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, HTML and Angular JS.  • Experience on working with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Orchard CMS, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  • Ability to rapidly prototype interface designs in hand-coded validating, standards-compliant, and semantically-rich code and be aware of cross-browser compatibility and bugs.  • Thorough understanding of the differences and bugs in various browsers and browser versions.  • Understanding of application development lifecycle methodologies.  • Knowledge of human factors and usability, best practices for interface design.  • Strong communication, analytical and interpersonal skills working within cross-functional teams.  • Excellent problem solving skills and the ability to work independently.  • Deep understanding of JavaScript and the JQuery framework.  • Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML and CSS.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Implemented and designed user interface for web based customer application.  • Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS based on the W3C standards.  • Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using client side scripting using JavaScript.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.  • Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Integrated with back end code (PHP) for highly interactive AJAX based applications.  • Maintained 24/7 high volume availability demands using open source tools such as Linux, Apache, PHP, and MySQL.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON, XML, XHTML, Angular JS, APACHE, MAC OS, ECLIPSE and Adobe Photoshop. Web Developer Silicon Horizon, NY April 2011 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with UI designers to understand the detailed intuitive UI prototypes and components.  • Drive the user experience vision across teams and enhance the internal as well as client facing applications and the overall application experience.  • Developed Page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  • Converted mock ups hand-written HTML and CSS with pixel perfect attention.  • Developed the WebPages that included JQUERY, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Developed web presentation layer using JQUERY, HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  • Designed the table less web applications using CSS and with the help of and tags as per W3C standards.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.  • Worked with teams where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved.  • Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging, and deploying.    Environment: HTML, DHTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, Java (JSP), Oracle, Windows. Web Developer Service International - New Delhi, Delhi September 2007 to March 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  ? Developed all the UI pages using HTML, XUL, DHTML, XSL/XSLT, XHTML, DOM, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax.  ? Created XHTML Pages with CSS and the Box Model.  ? Using advanced level of JQUERY, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  ? Used JQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the applications.  ? Used JQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree.  ? Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using JQuery framework.  ? Used JQuery plug-ins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  ? Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  ? Developed Date Time Picker using Object Oriented JavaScript extensively.  ? Designed PDF, Excel and Print previews for all the reports in the application using HTML, JavaScript and SQL Stored Procedure.  ? Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  ? Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  ? Involved in developing XUL, HTML, and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  ? Involved in writing application level code to perform client side validation using JQUERY and JavaScript.  ? Developed SQL Queries to interact with Oracle database.  ? Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Dreamweaver, AJAX, JSON, MS Office, PL/SQL and SVN. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • Web Technologies: HTML4/ HTML5, DOM, DHTML, XHTML, Ext-JS 4.0, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular Java Script, jQuery, jQuery Mobile, Backbone, Ajax, JSON.  • Development tools: Eclipse, Microsoft Visual Studio C++, Dream viewer, Brackets and Sublime text.  • Programming languages: C, C++, Java, ASP.Net  • Operating systems: Linux, Windows XP (Prof), Win 7, Mac OS X.  • Servers: Apache Tomcat, HTTP Web Server.  • Database: ORACLE, SQL SERVER, MYSQL.  • Frond End Tools: CorelDraw -XI Dreamweaver CS5, FrontPage Wire frame, Adobe Photoshop CS5, Image Ready CS5 Fireworks, and Adobe Captivate 3.  • Methodologies: Agile, Rational Unified Process (RUP), UML.