Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Elmhurst, IL Web developer dedicated to building and optimizing web based applications and sites, enhancing UX/UI and leveraging technical solutions to drive efficiency, with a true passion for writing clean code that maximizes functionality. A focus on using creative methods, analytical thinking, and communication skills to make websites come alive. Quick learner that thrives in fast-paced environments and constantly adapting new technologies to meet needs. Especially skilled at building effective, productive working relationships with clients and other team members. Excellent leadership, interpersonal, collaboration and negotiation skills.    TECHNICAL Work Experience Web Developer Sun Chemical - Northlake, IL November 2018 to Present • Redesigned a business intelligence web application using PHP, and implemented a new feature to allow users to customize the application, leading to a 25% increase in usage  • Currently redesigning this same application to utilize the React front end framework with a Node back end in order to simplify development, maintenance, and further drive increases in usage  • Develop and maintain WordPress and PHP website that generates nearly 1,000 visitors on a daily basis, as well as a back end system that facilitates lead generation and automation for multiple CRMs  • Design and develop custom WordPress pages and templates using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery  • Administer Pardot, execute 3-5 B2B email marketing campaigns per month including email design using HTML & CSS, automation, and integration with Salesforce CRM.  • Maintain large scale databases with MySQL and MariaDB, and integrate these databases into WordPress and other web apps using PHP, React, Node and Express. Freelance Web Developer 2018 to Present Built over 10 fully functional websites and applications, including several independent projects. Handled all aspects of design, front-end coding and styling, version control, and deployment for my personal projects. Efficiently and consistently implemented new technologies, debugged applications, and refactored to deliver the cleanest possible end result.    Active at the local South Side Code and Coffee coding meetup, as well as on the #100DaysOfCode Twitter community. SEIU Healthcare Illinois & Indiana 2013 to Present 2013-Current  Led several projects from inception to completion to recruit new members and identify leaders inside and outside the organization. Brought over 400 new members into the organization, by mobilizing current leaders and recruiting new ones. I have also negotiated agreements, supervised teams of staff and members, worked intimately with online and local databases in order to track metrics, and have developed and led several training programs. I routinely engage in very intense relationship and trust building and create a dynamic experience for members in order to maintain engagement in our organization. I am also required to think critically and creatively when designing outreach methods, am not afraid to try new methods, and am consistently revising strategies in order to ensure projects move forward. SEIU Healthcare Minnesota 2012 to 2013 Worked on a project to recruit 28,000 new members into the organization by travelling across the state, knocking door-to-door, cold calling, and seeking out the best leaders in each area. Built relationships with current and future members as well as local coalition and community groups in order to cast a wider net and expand our outreach. Minnesota Public Interest Research Group 2011 to 2012 Developed recruitment programs and project plans around improving various campus and public policies. Supported and trained students in their efforts to manage and grow their campus chapters. Built relationships and coalitions with campus administration, as well as local and state elected officials and community groups. Education Bachelor of Arts University of Minnesota - Minneapolis, MN 2018 Skills JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, UI DESIGN, HTML5, jQuery, CSS3, Front End, PHP, HTML, Wordpress, React, Git, Webpack, Gulp Links http://tomraley.dev http://github.com/tom-raley http://linkedin.com/in/tom-raley Additional Information SKILLS • JavaScript • HTML5 • CSS3 • Bootstrap • jQuery • GitHub • Chrome Devtools • Cross-Browser Compatibility • Mobile-First Design • Debugging • UX/UI Design