Graduate Assistant ( Web Developer) Graduate Assistant (<span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>) Graduate Assistant ( Web Developer) - Texas Southern University Houston, TX I am a web developer with a vast array of knowledge in many client and server side languages, responsive  frameworks, databases, and best code practices. My objective is simply to be the best web developer that I can be  and to contribute to the technology industry all that I know and can do. I am dedicated to perfecting my craft by  learning from more seasoned developers, remaining humble and continuously making strides to learn all that I  can about development. Work Experience Graduate Assistant ( Web Developer) Texas Southern University August 2018 to Present Worked with content editors, developers, project managers and coordinators in creating program- oriented websites for Student Recreation, Student Services, Department of Public services at Texas  Southern University.  • Got familiarized with some Testing tools like IBM LoadRunner, Selenium.  • Extensive experience as a Front-End UI Developer with solid understanding of database designing, development and installation of different modules.  • Professional understanding of System development life cycle (SDLC) as well as various phases such as Analysis Design, Development and Testing.  • Expert in developing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using  JavaScript, XHTML, jQuery, CSS3, React.js and Ajax.  • Experience applying the latest software development approaches including MVC, event - driven  applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON and XML. Web Developer Lodestar Academy September 2013 to July 2018 Design UI/UX websites with mobile responsiveness for clients, using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript ES6, Bootstrap, jQuery library, Ajax, Laravel, Php, RESTful API. Working closely with Back-end team to  design, develop, implement and deploy websites  • Contributed to improve company Time management and project completion by over 40%, by implementing Agile Scrum workflow  • Sound knowledge in working with browsers compatibility issues with browsers like IE, Firefox, Safari, Opera, Chrome  • Derived design, implementation, testing, and release in an agile environment, using modern  methodologies and open source tools Education M.Sc in Computer Science Texas Southern University - Houston, TX August 2018 to May 2020 B.Sc in Air Quality Management Middlesex University - London January 2015 to July 2017 Skills Javascript, PHP, Front End, Angular, Wordpress Links https://samuelegwurube.netlify.com/