Web developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Web developer - DaVita Nashville, TN • 7.11 years of experience as a Software Engineer in .Net 2.0 / 3.5/4.0 and Asp.net MVC3/MVC4.  • Worked in Entity Frame work project with rich UI and Coding standards and Code reviews.  • Involved in Tuning of the stored procedures by understanding the Execution Plan.  • Good experience in Coding on C# .Net ,T-SQL,L-SQL,SSIS,MS SQL Server, SSRS and WCF,Rest Api, Web-Api with Solid principles  • Experienced in single page application using Angular  • Integrated web services with Angular app  • Expertise in SQL Programming (Transact SQL statements / Stored Procedures) and SQL SERVER Jobs creation.  • Experienced in applying analytical and creative problem solving to functional requirements.  • Experienced lead developer with full stack dot Net application.  • Good experience in Analysis and Design of the system, Quality process, Software Development and Project delivery  • Highly appraised for excellent written and verbal communication skills and ability to compliment team performance with strong individual performance.  • Worked primarily in the domain of HealthCare, and Insurance Domains with Agile Methodology and Scrum Framework  • Worked in core-Java and Business Intelligence Project(SSIS with Informatica as ETL tool and business objects as reporting tool.  • Worked in Oracle Apps Project with HRMS as E-business suite  • Analyze performance scripts ,dynatrace tool to improve application performance Work Experience Web developer DaVita August 2018 to Present Description: Center Without Walls (CWOW) is to create IT systems that are patient-based, allowing us to extend care more effectively provide integrated care solutions. This will enable a better experience for our teammates, physician partners and most importantly, patients and their care partners, as they move up the Clinical Pyramid. CWOW means anywhere, anytime access, improved overall outcomes, and more efficient care delivery.  Technologies:  • Angular ,Bootstrap,FlexUi,PrimeNg , TypeScript,JavaScript, CSS3 ,HTML5,DB2, Jasmine,Karma,mustache,Nginx  Tools  • DB2,Docker,Jenkins,BitBUcket,Confluence,Jira,Visual Studio Code,Postman,Fiddler    Roles and Responsibilities:.  • Created web application using on Angular  • Made responsive pages using Flex-Ui and Bootstrap  • Implemented routing to call services.  • Unit testing using karma and Jasmine  • Jira and confluence for project management and document store  • Able to make the requirements into workable program code through simple logics.  • Ownership taken for a particular module and try to implement the program with no defects.  • Working as a part of a team leading for full stack development to get required results.  • Unit testing the program to know whether the program works as required.  • Trouble shooting the problem and making necessary changes in the program.  • Performance script validation and data generation  • Managed production deployment and post validation for all releases: Web developer DaVita August 2017 to Present Description: The objective of the Medcheck software solution is to provide a simple web-based application:  • Which will enable DaVita Prescribers to prescribe prescription electronically.  • Which will be Superscripts eRx certified  A prescriber writes the prescription, prints and sends to Pharmacy through fax. As per the Superscripts eRx certification requirement, the DaVita prescriber application should be able to send and receive the prescriptions to and from pharmacies of choices directly electronically i.e. via Superscripts network.  Technologies:  • ASP.net, C#, MVC , jQuery, JavaScript, CSS3, bootstrap ,SSRS ,HTML5,SQL server, Oracle PL/SQL, web applications and web api, IIS Manager ,MSMQ, Tools  • SQL Server 2008 R2, SQL SENTRY ,Windows 8, Windows 7  • TFS, HP Quality center, SureScript Admin Console, RoyalTs, Postman,Visual studio Code,PlSQl developer,BitBucket,JIRA,Confluence,BIDS,SSDT,SqlProfiler , Fiddler,Jasmine ,Karma    Roles and Responsibilities:  • As Senior Developer Lead led the team of 18 for the project.  • Created web application using on C# ,MVC ,.Net ,MS SQL Server, SSRS and WCF,Rest Api, Web-Api,TFS ,entity framework adhering Solid Principles  • Web Deployed on IIS ,with reports on SSRS server  • Created batch and cron jobs using MSMQ.  • Made application compliance with HIPAA and followed HL7 messaging format  • Followed HP ALM for bug tracking and defect management  • Used third party services for fetching data in application  • Performance improvement of application by SQL sentry explorer , dynatrace logs and metrics  • Optimised linq and stored procedures to handle huge volume data.  • Jira and confluence for project management and document store  • Able to make the requirements into workable program code through simple logics.  • Ownership taken for a particular module and try to implement the program with no defects.  • Working as a part of a team leading for full stack development to get required results.  • Unit testing the program to know whether the program works as required.  • Trouble shooting the problem and making necessary changes in the program.  • Performance script validation and data generation  • Managed production deployment and post validation for all releases Web developer DaVita November 2016 to July 2017 Description: Maestro is Davita's scheduling system which includes all teammates and patient scheduling .It mainly deals with in-patient and new patient appointments and their dialysis scheduling.    Technologies  ASP.net, C#, MVC , jQuery, JavaScript, CSS3, bootstrap,SSRS ,HTML5, T-Sql,PL-SQL,SQL server, web applications and web api, IIS Manager ,MSMQ,AMQ,    Tools  Visual Studio 2013/2015, SQL Server 2008 R2, SQL SENTRY, Windows 8, Windows 7,TFS, HP Quality center , RoyalTs, Postman,Visual studio Code,PlSQl developer,BitBucket, JIRA, Confluence,BIDS ,SSDT, SqlProfiler,Jasmine    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Worked as Lead in project with team of 7  • Created web application using on C# .Net ,MVC,linq,MS SQL Server, SSRS and WCF ,TFS  Used entityframework in the application development.  • Used Apache Active MQ for queues and jobs with AES 256 encryption  • Created complex SSRS reports with custom code in BIDS and SSDT tool  • Worked on batch and cron jobs using MSMQ.  • Created sql jobs using BCP commands  • Integrated with dependent application for two-way communication of data in real-time  • Followed HP ALM for bug tracking and defect management  • Performance improvement of application by dynatrace logs and metrics  • Jira and confluence for project management and document store  • Analysis of requirements for SandBox functionality  • Database design of new tables and entity model.  • Preparing the sprint plan and daily activities  • Development of code as per the business requirements  • Creating Sandbox SSRS reports for the end user perspective  • Providing Promote and Revert scheduled functionality  • Prepared the Release notes & DB objects for regular QA builds.  • Daily interaction with onsite team for updating the status on the work.  • Optimized code and improved performance to handle 3000 clinics users,  • Managed production deployment and post validation for all releases Web developer DaVita May 2016 to October 2016 Description:Flight-Deck is a higher management usable clinical application where one can assign tasks and assignments to all teammates.It is central application for all clinics where task monitoring and tracking can also be done  Technologies  ASP.net, C#, MVC , jQuery, JavaScript, CSS3, bootstrap, HTML5 ,SQL server, IIS Manager ,MSMQ, Tools  Visual Studio , SQL Server 2008 R2, Windows 8, Windows 7, TFS, HP Quality center, SureScript Admin Console, RoyalTs, Postman,Visual studio Code, PlSQldeveloper, BitBucket, JIRA, Confluence, BIDS, SSDT, SqlProfiler    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Analysis of requirements for new project.  • Creating stored procedures and sql statements, batch files in development.  • Development of code as per the business requirements  • Working with admin console in sending and receiving of messages across the application through WCF  • Unit testing of the developed code.  • Providing fixes to the issues identified in testing phase.  • Prepared the Release notes & DB objects for regular QA builds.  • Defect tracking and prevention by performing causal analysis to logged defects in HP Quality Centre.  • Daily interaction with onsite team for updating the status in scrum calls.  • Managed production deployment and post validation for all releases Web developer DaVita April 2015 to May 2016 Description: Maestro is Davita's scheduling system which includes all teammates and patient scheduling .It mainly deals with in-patient and new patient appointments and their dialysis scheduling.    Technologies:  • ASP.net, C#, MVC , jQuery, JavaScript, CSS3, bootstrap ,SSRS ,HTML5,SQL server, IIS Manager ,MSMQ    Tools:  • Visual Studio 2010/2013, SQL Server 2008 R2, Windows 8, Windows 7  TFS, HP Quality center, RoyalTs, Postman, BitBucket,JIRA, Confluence,BIDS ,SSDT,SqlProfiler  Roles and Responsibilities:    • Developed web application in c#,MVC,asp.net and code first entity framework  • Involved in creating complex charts in UI with kendo and chart.js  • Analysis of requirements for Phase 1 end and Phase 2 of project.  • Development of code as per the business requirements  • Creating of SQL SERVER jobs and scheduling them  • Creating SSRS reports for the end user perspective  • Providing fixes to the issues identified in testing phase.  • Prepared the Release notes & DB objects for regular QA builds.  • Defect tracking and prevention by performing causal analysis to logged defects in HP Quality Centre.  • Daily interaction with onsite team for updating the status on the work. Web developer DaVita September 2012 to April 2015 Snappy Reports project is to re-write the existing Snappy Reports application with new design approach and a Telerik reporting tool, which helps to overcome the performance and maintenance issues with the existing application.Reports module is extensively used across the clinics, as per the current projections, each day a minimum of 50 reports are generated per clinic across 2300 clinics, this makes it a critical application to service the patients.  Technologies  ASP.net, C#, MVC , jQuery, JavaScript, CSS3, bootstrap,IIS    Tools  Visual Studio 2010/2012, SQL Server 2008 R2, Windows 7, TFS, HP Quality center,    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Analysis of requirements for new project.  • Development of code as per the business requirements  • Unit testing of the developed code.  • Providing fixes to the issues identified in testing phase.  • Using SSIS to integrate code between systems  • Prepared the Release notes & DB objects for regular QA builds.  • Defect tracking and prevention by performing causal analysis to logged defects in HP Quality Centre.  • Daily interaction with onsite team for updating the status in scrum calls Education Bachelor's Skills Sql server, Sql server 2008, Sql server 2008 r2, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Visual studio, C#, Javascript, Bootstrap, Jenkins, Wcf, Html5, Mvc, Sass, Asp, Iis, Asp.net, jquery, Jira