UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - ESPN Bristol, CO Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Developer ESPN - Bristol, CO August 2017 to Present Description: The ADT global project is based on remote traffic management which provides work orders outlining transmission facilities, telecommunications and network return for all of ESPN network live and short turnaround programs.  Environment:: HTML4.0/5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node JS AJAX, JSON, XHTML, DHTML, Eclipse, Java, SVN, CVS, HP-QC and MS Office,J2EE,MongoDB,Soap,ExtJS  Responsibilities:  ? Working in Agile Methodologies for rapid development and regular adaption to the varying requirements and continuous delivery of the working software.  ? Developing Web pages by using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript and working knowledge of AngularJS.  ? Worked extensively with AngularJS.  ? Experience in Node.js modules like grunt, bower, express and mongoose.  ? Experience working in Build Tools like Maven and Node.js.  ? Had worked and have experience with Node.Js.  ? Proficient in MVC frameworks programming language such as Node.js together with strong knowledge of database SQL as used in MySQL.  ? Experience in complete Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC) process with expertise in Planning, Reviewing Specification, Documentation, Scheduling, Design, Development, Testing, Implementation and Maintenance of Applications.  ? Created class diagrams in rose and reverse engineer which generated classes into WebSphere.  ? Created a code that was cross browser compatible.  ? Worked on creating Dynamic Navigation bar through JSON data using Angularjs service.  ? Customized and utilized widgets in JQuery to show the data in grid/panel views.  Experience with Ajax, and understanding of the different types of JSON object manipulation UI Developer Progressive Insurance - Cleveland, OH May 2016 to July 2017 Environment: EXTJS4.1, Bootstrap Js, JQuery, JSON, HTML, JavaScript, Visual Studio, Agile v1, AngularJS.  Description: It is an intelligence-gathering tool designed to provide a platform for internal managers to search and review the latest developments and trends in the market. This application was developed as a single page application with EXTJS doing heavy lifting on the front-end & .Net as backend large number of e-commerce documents were gathered from different sources and mined for the metadata that was provided to an internal search engine.  Responsibilities  ? Whole project was developed using an agile methodology with 3 week sprints.  ? Designed and developed whole front-end using EXTJS.  ? Wrote code to build Views and Models as part of MVC pattern using EXTJS.  ? Developed use case diagram and use cases from Software Design Specifications documents.  ? Designed SOAP and REST Web Services API interactions for data transfer from client to server and vice versa.  ? Created a screen switching mechanism that switches panel giving a feel of changing pages.  ? Developed multiple POCs to create a user transaction grid in EXTJS.  ? Implemented Routers and history in single page application (SPA) as a part of Angular Js Application.  ? Used EXTJS custom service to encapsulate user data.  ? Experience in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and extensive experience with Agile.  ? Well-versed in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) with JavaScript.  ? Used Bootstrap to make this web responsive and mobile friendly.  ? Created Drag & Drop Trees.  ? Created Multiple Grids with pagination and inline editing capabilities.  ? Created multiple layout including tab, card, accordion and border layout.  ? Created auto compete combo boxes.  ? DevTested and provided QA support.  ? Gave estimates of my stories and completed them within the sprint. UI Developer Verizon July 2015 to June 2016 Environment: React.JS, Jquery, CSS, HTMl, Bootstrap, React-Router, HTML, JIRA, Confluence, Github,  Slack, ATOM, React-Native, Xcode, Visual Code, JIRA, Stash, Hip chat, Slack, IOS simulator, Genymotion, Angular.JS, HipChat, MAMP Server.  Description:  Sensity Web Application: - Sensity Systems provides smart solutions to Airports, Cities, Office Properties and Retail Malls. The smart solutions provided by Sensity include Smart lights, Parking Solutions and Traffic Management. The Sensity consists of two categories of nodes that are Core Node and Video Node, which goes on the light poles. The Sensity web application is built using React.JS framework and JQuery is used for Ajax calls. The web application basically provides a liberty for the Sensity Admin, Sensity Partners and End Customers to access the nodes through the web application. The Sensity provides some advance features like Daylight Harvesting and Proximity Dimming which can applied on the nodes for efficient energy saving. These all advanced features can be applied through the web application. The web application provides lots of features for the end customers where they can manage the lights by applying advanced features on it. The Core Node is used manage the lights. The Video Node provides the Parking and Traffic Solutions.  Project: (COHO Mobile Application Phase 1):  Coho mobile application supports IOS, Android, Tablets and Ipad Devices simultaneously. The application is totally dependent and developed using React Native technology. The Coho mobile application is the HOM application but only for the mobile and tablet devices. The Coho mobile application has a very unique and additional feature. The feature is Butler. The user initially has to hire ad butler when he installs the application. The butler keeps tracks of devices and manages it and provides feedback to the user on his behalf. This application supports the total of 25 devices. All the devices consist of censors, lights, locks and bulbs.  Project: (SPYBOX Phase 1):  SpyBox is a mobile application, which is developed using react native. SpyBox supports both IOS and Android devices. It is also compatible with the Tablet and Ipad devices. SpyBox is the mobile application where the main scope is package tracking of the customer. With the help SpyBox application the customer can actually track his package in real time with the help GPS location. SpyBox has very unique features, which includes of many alerts. The SpyBox is integrated with devices, which helps in providing alerts. The SpyBox generates an alert and informs the user when the package is dropped during the transportation. It also generates alert when the package is opened in between the transportation. The SpyBox is integrated with the NestCam Application where the user can install and sign in to it to access the camera and check whether the package is delivered or not and the delivered package is opened by the owner or by someone else. The SpyBox mobile application speaks to ThingSpace server at the backend for the data communication purpose. This application has a control app at the backend to send service alerts for the demo purpose.  Responsibilities:  ? Handling cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox and Safari) on both Windows and Mac and debugged using tools like Firebug.  ? Involved and provided suggestions to improve the functionality and performance of the Sensity Web Application.  ? Worked on React forms to create forms for the Application.  ? Worked with the Gulp, Webpack in building the project, also worked in creating the gulpfile.js for managing the build operations.  ? Worked with the SASS/SCSS pre-processor to simplify writing the CSS styling  ? Implemented and executed the new feature where the Multiple Nodes can be assigned to a site in Commissioning Page.  ? Solved and Fixed the issues related to the Google Chrome on Windows 10 Machine.  ? Analyzed and executed the bug fixes.  ? Worked in agile methodologies.  ? Used the confluence page to update the demo details.  ? Used JIRA for solving the tickets assigned to me.  ? Created sub-tasks for the user stories.  ? Involved in sprints planning for the project.  ? Created and implemented the butler component and view.  ? Used React-Native vector images for the customization of butler.  ? Implemented the API integration for the first time login page.  ? Used JIRA for creating user stories and sub-tasks out of the main tasks.  ? Used different branching structure for this project to identify and fix the bugs.  ? Create and implement the UI components.  ? Implemented the API integrations for the login pages.  ? Involved in scrum meetings and plans for the project.  ? Gave ideas and suggestions to improve the UI for the better user experience.  ? Involved in two-week sprints to complete the work.  ? Also involved in Dev testing for the application and marked out the bugs.  ? Created and implemented a card component  ? Developed all the pages using Angular JS 1.5.  ? Developed and designed the UI Components for the application.  ? Used CSS for the styling purpose.  ? Implemented Font Awesome in the application for special characters purpose.  ? Used Angular material for implementing progress bars, date picker, progress circular and menus etc.  ? Implemented many controllers and services for the application using Angular.  ? Used JIRA to keep the track on the tasks assigned and complete before the sprint closes.  ? Used Source Tree for the branching purpose.  Used Slack and Hip chat for team chats, discussions and code sharing Web Developer Clinical Ink, PA May 2014 to June 2015 Environment: HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, JSON, JQuery, XML, Apache Tomcat, Angular JS Oracle 10g.  Description: I was responsible for creating web portals according to UI standards, creating the look and feel of web pages, sketch wireframes, developing graphic designs, applying quality code, analyzing the user requirements and mapping the user requirements with the operational systems. I was also responsible in translate Client needs, content and branding into structured website concepts, translates projected visitor needs into structured website concepts, develop website concepts into appropriate, technically color comps.  Responsibilities:  ? Establishes the look and feel of web pages including typography, color, layout and other factors like animations, functionality, validations.  ? Involved in internal insurance projects and updates.  ? Developed front-end part of the web pages using HTML, CSS, and XHTML.  ? Created innovative images using Photoshop, Illustrator, testing cross browser compatibility, bug fixing and system enhancements.  ? Met client demands under the pressure of tight deadlines changing demands and commitment to quality.  ? Taken care of standards while applying accessibility and usability of the applications.  ? Created illustrator characters for the internal announcements.  ? Implemented design independently as well as part of a team. Web Developer Bank of America, NY March 2013 to April 2014 Environment: Java, CQ5/AEM , Apache sling, Apache Felix, Web services, Ext JS, Ajax, JSON, Less, JavaScript, AngularJS, Linux, Apache, Eclipse.  Description: The Bank of America app provides secure access to your accounts allowing you to manage your finances from virtually anywhere. Available to all registered Online banking customers. The app lets you get a peek at your balances without signing in, deposit checks by taking a picture, add payees and pay bills in seconds, monitor account activity, transfer funds between your accounts, and find the nearest ATM or branch.  Responsibilities:  ? Written application level code to perform client side validation using Ext JS and JavaScript.  ? Designed the front end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  ? Developing Web pages by using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript and working knowledge of Ext JS, bootstrap.js, and Node.js.  ? Using advanced level of Ext JS, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  ? Wrote JQuery functions while implementing various UI Screens across the whole web application.  ? Used Ext.js for creating custom directives for re-usable components (multi-field form elements, background file uploads, etc.).  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML  ? Written SQL queries to extract data from input files validate and load data into database (Oracle/SQL Server), developed various reports and core tables lookups utilizing Business Objects.  ? Worked on JavaScript framework (Backbone, Ext JS) to augment browser based applications with MVC capability.  ? Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS.  ? Designed, developed and implemented database modules to verify user details.  ? Developed various modules for database verification and validation, identified and analyzed data discrepancies and data quality issues, worked to ensure data consistency and integrity.  ? Worked with cross functional teams, including associated Data, UI and Mid-Tier teams.  ? Gathering business requirements from the business team and analyzing the requirements to propose the solution. UI Developer ICICI Bank Ltd January 2011 to February 2013 Environment: HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, JSON, XML, Apache Tomcat.  Description: ICICI Bank is India's second largest bank with total assets of about US $38.5 billion. It provides all kinds of finance needs from securities to auto finance, banking, corporate and retail. CMD Issue Collection Application was developed for Collection of Application money in respect of IPO/Bonds/Debt instruments by Capital Market Division (CMD) branch and other identified branches of ICICI Bank Ltd. The software application facilitated data entry for generating various Reports.    Responsibilities:  ? Working in an interactive and agile process with business liaisons using Rally.  ? Working with Adobe Photoshop for designing and styling web pages, mockups and style guides.  ? Creating mobile website pages with HTML, CSS, and JQuery Mobile framework using Dreamweaver.  ? Integration of the HTML code into JSP Files using Rational Application Developer (RAD) on TortoiseSVN.  ? Regular use of SVN Compare, Beyond Compare for version control.  ? Testing and committing to the serve. Education Bachelor's Skills React, Javascript, Front End, UI, Angular, HTML4.0/5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node JS AJAX, JSON, XHTML, DHTML, Eclipse, Java, SVN, CVS, HP-QC and MS Office,J2EE,MongoDB,Soap,ExtJS Responsibilities: (8 years)