Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer Sterling Heights, MI • Having over 6 years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Documentation, Deployment and Implementation with .Net technologies in web and windows based of applications in N-tier and MVC Architecture.   • Having 2 years and 5 months of teaching experience in Operating Systems, Software Engineering, Visual Programming (VB, VC++) and OOPS concept in Engineering Colleges.  • Experience in developing applications in various domains like Payroll Management, HR Management, Retail, Automotive, Banking and Healthcare as per the business requirements.  • Extensive experience of programming on .NET Framework 4.5/3.5/3.0/2.0/1.1, ASP.NET, VB.NET, ADO.NET, C#, WinForms, Web Services, WCF, LINQ and XML.  • Experience in UI design skills using ASP.NET, VB.NET, HTML, User Controls, Custom Controls, CSS and JavaScript.  • Strong abilities in Data Modeling, Database Design, Views, Normalization, Stored Procedures, Triggers and Functions.  • Worked extensively with Data Adapter, Dataset, Data reader as a part of ADO.NET to access and update database.  • Excellent skills with Software Development Life Cycle development (SDLC), Agile and worked with version control Visual Source Safe (VSS) and SVN.   • Strong RDBMS skills in SQL Server 2008/2005/2000, Oracle 9i/8i Good in creating stored procedures, functions and optimizing queries for performance by looking at Execution plan using T-SQL and PL/SQL.  • Worked with MVC Pattern, Dependency Injection Pattern, Creational Patterns like Singleton and Abstract factory.  • Have strong analytical skills with proficiency in debugging and problem solving.  • Highly dedicated, quick starter, solution driven pattern programmer with excellent communication and interpersonal skills with ability to work as part of a team or independently. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Automatic Data Processing-ADP - Alpharetta, GA April 2014 to February 2016 Project Details: Schedule API and TED (TimeEntryDetails) Management Feb 2015 – Feb 2016    ADP is a leading payroll processing company in US provides, The Schedule API and TED Management is the technology solutions and support to various business for schedule management and TimeCard management through mobile. It provides all the facilities for a manager to maintain his team level schedule management on daily, weekly and monthly basis. Only manager can add, change and remove these schedules and a normal employee is not allowed to schedule. The scheduling helps to have the right people in the right place at the right time.     TED facilitates the manager as well as employees to manage their timecards. TED gets the TimeEntry details based upon the time entry type of an employee. There are three types of TimeEntries 1. Hourly View 2. Project View 3. TimeStamp View. TED also monitors the hours worked for the purpose of ACA compliance and cost control. TED facilitates Managing shifts, vacations, attendance policies, leave cases, time off request and staff management through mobile.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of development life cycle starting from Requirements Gathering, High Level Design, Technical Design, Development , Integration and Testing.  • Developed REST service for Schedule API.  • Made XML API calls to Etime and did parsing of XML response to JSON object.  • Compared the JSON response object with the Schema.  • Wrote Unit test as well as Mock test.  • Wrote Integrations tests.  • Actively participated in the Integration of the API.  • Involved in the code review.  • Worked on the Rally tool to follow the Agile.   • Actively participated in the Release planning, Backlog grooming, Sprint Planning, Scrum meeting every day and Retrospective meetings.    Environment: VS 2012, ASP.Net 4.5, C#.Net, WCF, HTML, Oracle 11g, IIS 7.0, SVN and REST services.  Tools: Rally, HTTP Requestor, Schema Validator and JSON editor.    Project Details: Time and Labor Management (TLM) Apr 2014 – Jan 2015    ADP has the people, processes and technology to help transform global Human Resources management from an administrative function to a powerful, vital and essential part of your business. And it starts with simplicity TLM - The Time and Labor Management. I have worked on three key modules NewHire Management, Payroll Processing and ZeroDown Process.    NewHire Management: Creates new hire and saves their information on Vantage (ADP Product) as well as on Kronos by making XML API call. This also manages the direct and indirect reporting managerial details and pay group details.    Payroll Processing- OffCycle Processing: In legacy system - Vantage does not pass the future dated events to TLM until the date of occurrence. Hence TLM is not yet aware of the future dated termination event. In order to overcome the above mentioned problem the “Off Cycle Process” feature is developed. With this the user can process off cycle checks for future dated terminated employees by sending future dated terminated employees information to EIM from Vantage. User can also run Off-Cycle Process for the following employee status along with Terminated. 1) Active 2) Leave Of Absence 3) Deceased 4) Leave with Pay 5) Retired 6) Suspended    Zero Down (ZD): ZD module is used to delete the test data before moving a system to production mode. The Zero Down feature removes preproduction test data from the system when the client has completed testing and is ready to move to a live, production environment. The test data that is removed includes Employees, Timecard data for test employees, including punches, timesheet items, transactional data, and audit records (keeps scheduled shifts and schedule pay-code edits), Scheduled shifts and pay-code edits and Labor level entries. Zero Down can be run on demand at any time of the day. It can be run multiple times per day.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of development life cycle starting from Requirements Gathering, High Level Design, Technical Design, Development , Integration and Testing.  • Developed REST services for ZeroDown process.  • Developed SOAP services for NewHire Service and Payroll Process.  • Made XML API calls to Etime to save time information on KRONOS.  • Wrote Unit test as well as Mock test.  • Wrote Integrations tests.  • Actively participated in the Integration of the SOAP service.  • Involved in the code review.  • Worked on the Rally tool to follow the Agile.   • Tested the SOAP service through SOAP UI.  • Actively participated in the Release planning, Backlog grooming, sprint planning, scrum meeting every day and retrospective meetings.    Environment: VS 2012, ASP.Net 4.5, C#.Net, WCF, Oracle 11g, IIS 7.0, SVN, SOAP and REST services.  Tools: Rally, HTTP Requestor, Schema Validator and JSON editor. Web Developer Millennium Software Productions Ltd, India. - Chennai, Tamil Nadu October 2011 to May 2013 Project Details: EDC Re-Engineering    The leading bank in USA provides technology solutions and support to various business associates of HealthCare Industry. They provide all development and maintenance support to core processing application suite that enable providers and payers to process their claim and payments.    Electronic Data Capture (EDC) a core application (both front and backend engine) was designed and implemented over a decade ago. The platform contains technologies classified as DNP (declining/not permitted) as per bank policy. Due to these DNP technologies the platform has stability and throughput limitations that result in missed client SLAs and limit future growth opportunities. This project was implemented in align with bank strategic goals of reducing risk, remediating DNP technologies, reducing operational expense, and providing a stable platform with increased throughput.    Not Re-Engineering would have resulted in continued negative client experiences due to platform instability, loss of existing business to the competition, and throughput limitations hampering business growth and revenue generation.    Hence EDC Re-Engineering was one of the initiatives supporting the business case described as above.    Responsibilities  • Involved in all the phases of development life cycle starting from Requirements Gathering, High level Design, Technical design, development and testing,  • Designed and developed the web forms using c#.Net  • Designed and developed business classes for web application using C#.NET  • Created a library of Custom Web and Validation controls which are used by multiple applications.   • Worked with ADO.NET for fetching and manipulating data in SQL Server.  • Used ADO.NET Datasets, Data Tables and Data Adapters.  • Written several stored procedures and User Defined Functions in TSQL.   • Created reports based on user selection criteria, apart from Adhoc Reporting.  • Conducted the functional testing.  • Consistently worked on exceptions generated in Issue Logs resolving the issues.  • Involved in Bi-Weekly Maintenance Deployment for deploying the code to both QA and Production servers.  •Worked with documenting the application’s functionality and flow of control, which is later posted as the Help Document for the Project    Project Details: Interactive.com   Interactive.com is a portal that helps to create and send E-Mail campaigns, track leads, automate sales-force activities and help in effective Customer Relationship Management (CRM).  Interactive.com has three main modules:  1. Marketing - creating and sending E-Mail campaigns  2. Sales - tracking leads and sales activities  3. Customer Service - managing inbound inquiries    Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing easy-to-use user interface and step-by-step process that helps to create eye-catching E-Mail campaign,  •Designed and developed the web forms using c#.Net  • Designed and developed business classes for web application using C#.NET  • Created reports based on user selection.  • Conducted the functional testing.  • Involved in Bi-Weekly Maintenance Deployment for deploying the code to both QA and Production servers.    Environment: Visual Studio 2005, ASP.Net 2.0, C#.Net, HTML, SQL Server 2005, IIS 5.0, JavaScript, Ajax Control Toolkit.    Skills Used  ASP.Net  C#  SQL Server 2008  JavaScript  JQuery  HTML 5 Developer Satyam Computer Services Ltd. India - Chennai, Tamil Nadu October 2007 to March 2010 Project Details: Retail Sigma System– More Super Market    Retail Sigma integrates every retail management function from the Point-of-Service to the back office. Retail Sigma can track customers using CLP (Customer Loyalty Program) and enhances sales by providing value-added services. It is highly scalable and configurable, it is also modular. Depending on specific needs, one can choose to have just the Front-end and Retail back-office modules or add any/all of the other discrete modules like SigmaSphere, SigmaXpress, SigmaStock, SigmaProcure, SigmaSatisfy and SigmaEureka. A user friendly and robust back end operation is integral for effective and streamlined operation of the entire modules.    Responsibilities  • Involved in Requirements gathering and analysis.  • Involved in design, development and maintenance of the modules in C#.NET.  • Involved in 3-tier Architecture implementation by creating Presentation Layer, Business Layer and Data Access Layer.  • Used LINQ to SQL, LINQ to XML for data retrieval.  • Developed the windows forms and user controls.  • Developed SQL store procedures, Triggers for data manipulation and querying data from SQL server.  • Handled Minor Bug Fixes, code fixes and Data Fixes.  • Performed unit testing on every new version before sending it for User Acceptance Test (UAT)    Project Details: Marketing Solutions Applications (MSA) – Caterpillar  MSA is a maintenance project which includes three projects (SOMA, MSR and PSel). We made Vista compliance of those three projects. SOMA & MSR created by using C# and Oracle as back end and PSeL was Created by using VC++and MS Access. PSel includes some minor changes and enhancements with the Vista compliance. The PSeL is a PC-based application that will assist caterpillar dealers in identifying and managing parts used to service Caterpillar machines or Engines.  To make Vista compliance of SOMA and PSR  • The backend was changed to Microsoft SQL Express  • New setup kit has been generated using InstallShield.    Responsibilities:  • UI design change and business requirement change have been done.  • Performed an active role in major Enhancements and releases of the build.  • Made the changes in the WinForms as per the enhancements.  • Handled Minor Bug Fixes, Code Fixes and Data Fixes.  • Performed Manual Testing Activities for certain releases by preparing test cases, sending bug report etc.,    Project Details: Repair Rebuild Data Development (R2D2) – Caterpillar    Gen1B maintains existing Repair Options (PRO & SRO- JO) in the Gen 1A application up to date with the information shown in SIS, in accordance with any engineering Change Notifications that have been processed to update SIS for Authoring parts manuals. It provides an import of the SMCS data file, by defining all of the standard SMCS codes including the 8 Repair Option SMCS codes and the family code, as well as modification to the manual Edit/Delete functionality for SMCS and family codes to prevent users from modifying or deleting the SMCS codes that were populated from the data file.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis of the process and the requirements.  •Translated customer requirements into new features and services.  • Writing SQL queries, stored procedures and functions using SQL Server.  • Designed and Developed WinForms using C# and .NET.  • Database management and ADO.NET connectivity.  • Used the design patterns Singleton, MVC.  • DevPartner tool was used to review the code.  • Performed Unit testing with the help of NUnit.    Project Details: Order Processing – XMART (Supermart)  The project deals with designing a system for the Order Processing department of XMART. There are two types of order 1. Order to warehouse and 2. Order to dealer. If the particular item exists in the warehouse then user will order to warehouse else user will get prompt that particular item got over so he will make order to the dealer. Once the purchase order is ordered a unique order number been created. User can delete the ordered purchase order before the delivery date. After the delivery of the ordered item deletion is not allowed. Payment could be done by the following ways i.e. cash, demand draft, credit card.    Responsibilities:  • As a team member, I was responsible for Analysis of the specifications provided by the Client.  • Design and development of the URD, SRS, OOD documents.  • Involved in the development of code using VB.NET.  • Responsible for Database design, and creating of Stored Procedures, triggers to perform the Data retrieval from multiple tables  • Responsible for overseeing the Documentation and their formats and coding standards.  • Defect finding, review of unit test cases and results    Project Details: Course Registration  It is a web based application for Course Registration. In which multiple user privileges was provided. The modules were concerned with getting details about the particular course, nominating for the particular course. The course could be deleted if and only if less than five members nominated for that particular course. Only administrator can do add, delete modify the course details.    Responsibilities:  • Understanding the requirements and designing the UI and implementing.  • Designed and developed Web Forms using ASP.Net for the user interface.  • Used C #. Net Technology for server side programming.  • Utilized ADO.Net technology extensively for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation  • Performed unit testing and functional testing by writing and executing test cases.  • Implemented various Validation Controls and also created Custom Validation Controls using JavaScript to perform Client Side Validation.  • Developed Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) for User Interface uniformity throughout the application.    Environment: ASP.NET, C#.NET, SQL Server 2005, Jscript, CSS, IIS 6.0.    Skills Used  ASP.Net  SQL Server 2008  JavaScript  JQuery  C#  VB  VC++ Lecturer R.M.K Engineering College - Chennai, Tamil Nadu December 2006 to May 2007 Responsibilities  Handled OOPS Concepts. Lecturer Vel SRS Engineering College - Chennai, Tamil Nadu November 2003 to August 2005 Responsibilities  Operating Systems,Programming Languages(C, C++,VB,VC++) ,Software Engineering and Networks Subjects were handled. Education Master of Engineering in Computer Science R.M.K Engineering College - Chennai, Tamil Nadu 2007 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science Arulmigu Meenakshi Amman College of Engineering - Kanchipuram, Tamil Nadu 2003 HSC Govt High School March 1999 SSLC M.K.V.Govt Higher Secondary School - Arani, Tamil Nadu March 1997 Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Developer (MCAD) Additional Information SKILL SET    • Languages: C#, VB.NET, ADO.NET, MS SQL, PL/SQL, T-SQL  • .NET Technologies: .Net Framework 3.5/4.0, Visual Studio 2005/2008/2010, ASP.NET 2.0/3.0,3.5,4.0,LINQ to SQL, LINQ to XML, ADO.NET, WEB Services.  • IDE: Visual Studio.Net 2005/2003/2008  • Web Technologies: XML, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery.  • Application Servers: IIS 6.0, IIS 7.0 with .NET Framework  • Databases/Servers: MS SQL Server 2000/2005/2008, Oracle 9i/8i, MS Access.  • Version Controls: VSS  • Software Design Tools: Rational Rose  • Operating Systems: Windows 2000/XP/98,7,Vista and UNIX