Web Developer/PHP Developer/Perl Developer /Python Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/PHP <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Perl <span class="hl">Developer</span> /Python <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer/PHP Developer/Perl Developer /Python Developer - NOKIA Edison, NJ • 10 years of experience in software development with focus on requirements gathering, product/release/team planning and estimation, design, technical/training documentation, architecting, development, maintenance, Unit/System/User Acceptance testing and retrospective with strong knowledge of project management techniques including waterfall, AGILE methodology.  • PHP Technology, HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, AJAX and Content Management System, LAMP technology, REST based web services, MVC Framework.  • Excellent experience in publishing domain related web applications.  • Experience in responsive design and implementation.  • Experience in Apache web server administration/configuration  • Experience in MVC model, worked on New York Times customized PHP framework.  • Experience in Content Management System such as Wordpress, SCOOP( New York Times CMS tool).  • Excellent procedural skills and improving Object Oriented skills.  • Experience in consuming REST based WebServices.  • Experience in developing and maintaining websites and web applications using PHP, REST web service, HTML, XHTML, XML, CSS, JSON, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX,HTML5,CSS3.  • Experience in installing, configuring, administering for Wordpress.  • Data Modeling on Relational Database Management Systems  • Providing CSS related solutions to achieve required UI for sites.  • Proficiency in Prototype, Module Design, User Interface Design, and Integration of PHP components.  • Designing skills to design web site, page layouts, email newsletters.  • Experience in end-to-end lifecycle of PHP based implementations.  • Experience in QTP testing tool, writing QTP test cases for different web applications and perform automated and manual testing.  • Experience with SASS, Compass & Breakpoint  • Wordpress Plugin and Theme development experience. Installing plugins, fixing bugs.  • Working experience with setup & use of version control systems (SVN),BitBucket.  • Experience in using various tools and IDEs for development and design like Netbeans, eclipse, Dreamweaver.  • Experience in using WinSCP, Bugzilla, regexbuddy tools.  • Expert knowledge of SDLC and Agile methodologies.  • Experience in design, effort estimation, scheduling and work plan development  • Excellent experience in documentation of design, implementation and deployment process of projects.  • Experience in web testing using emulators, browser like safari, chrome, Firefox, IE 9 and fixing UI issues.  • Competent with PHPMYADMIN, MySQL database concepts  • Excellent analytical skills accompanied by good written, interpersonal communication, documentation and testing skills.  • Experience in leading project and managing tasks for the team.  • Proven record in training team members and helping to provide solutions.  • Self-motivated and able to perform with minimal direction  • Committed team player with ability to work in agile development environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer/PHP Developer/Perl Developer /Python Developer NOKIA - Arlington Heights, IL July 2018 to Present • Developing and maintaining PHP, Python Perl web applications.  • Requirement gathering, architecture and design planning for web applications.  • Working on Redmine tool and enhance features of Redmine for issue tracking.  • Perform Unit testing, Integration testing.  • Maintain applications on Redmine, perform administration activities.  • Design and implement new features, enhancements, and content of existing websites.  • Development of application pages involving DJANGO, Foundation framework and Angular.  • Involved in creating all technical related documentation and training required for each release of projects.    Environment: PHP, Perl, Python, HTML, CSS, Apache, Linux, Filezilla, MYSQL, Redmine, SVN, Regexbuddy Web Developer/PHP Developer/Perl Developer ABBOTT DIAGNOSTICS - Lake Forest, IL June 2016 to July 2018 • Developing and maintaining PHP and Perl applications used for Clinical Data Collection and Processing.  • Collecting user requirements specification to implement new application pages  • Perform changes to existing applications to fulfill business operation needs.  • Developing PHP and Perl application to enhance and automate the data collection-to-extraction process.  • Developing PHP and Perl applications which will be used for Clinical Trial database study using the data.  • Documenting all the required documents for the project.  • Developing protocol documentations for Computerized System Life Cycle (SLC) deliverables.  • Testing software to provide objective evidence of meeting functional requirements.  • Bash scripts coding and execution on Unix/LINUX for data processing.  • Perform configuration activities required for projects.  • Review results and incidents on data.  • Migrating PHP and PERL applications from UBUNTU Unix to Red Hat Linux environment.  • Involved in creating all technical related documentation required for each release of projects.    Environment: PHP, Perl, HTML, CSS, Apache, Linux, Unix, Filezilla, SQLite, Oracle, JavaScript, JQUERY Web Developer/PHP Developer/UI Developer/ Web Content Management SEARS HOLDINGS - Chicago, IL May 2014 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developing and Maintaining all Wordpress Blog sites.  • Collecting requirements to design new sites and changes required to existing sites.  • Installing, configuring, maintaining and administering Wordpress blog sites.  • Updating Wordpress and plugins to new version across all sites.  • Developing custom plugins for special features.  • Identifying and solving issues caused by installed plugins.  • Fix all cross browser related issues.  • Resolving bugs reported across the sites, managed through JIRA.  • Single person to handle all tech team related work and issues.  • Worked on HTML5 and CSS3 to build the pages.  • Unit testing/Integration/Cross browser testing of all sites.  • Debugging and refining websites to produce final, fully QA'd product  • Creating Wordpress API to be used by other applications.  • Design and implement new features, enhancements, and content of existing websites  • Provide technical consultancy services to stakeholders  • Developing custom themes and functionality  • Responsive design implementation.  • Converting easy to complex psd designs into WordPress pages.  • Worked on Bootstrap, SASS, Compass , LESS & Breakpoint  • Consuming API through curl to bring up the application pages.  • Performance tuning of the application.  • Involved in design phase, estimations and release activities for different projects.    Environment: PHP, HTML,XHTML,JavaScript, Jquery,CSS, HTML5, CSS3,MYSQL, PHPMYADMIN, Apache, Linux, WinSCP, Wordpress,API,Dreamweaver, Google Analytics, BitBucket, iFrame, Wordpress SEO, Bootstrap, SASS , LESS , Compass. Senior UI Developer/ Web Content Management BARCLAYS INVESTMENT BANK - Plano, TX April 2013 to May 2014 • Understanding existing applications  • Installation of all softwares required for project JAVA, ORACLE,PL/SQL, INTELLIJ, GIT, TOMCAT  • Setting up workspace for the project which involves installing all softwares and bringing up application sites on local.  • Involved in creating UI which includes creating JSP pages  • Creating tag files, using existing tag files in struts 2 framework  • Review of test scripts created for JIRA  • Providing UI related fixes for issues reported.    Environment: IntelliJ,Sublime,CSS,HTML,Javascript,Aptana,Jira,GIT,JSP,Struts 2 Web Developer/PHP Developer/UI Developer/ Web Content Management LINKED LOCAL NETWORK - Schaumburg, IL March 2012 to April 2013 Linked Local Network uses evolving technologies to connect business owners and professionals with each other to expand awareness and create opportunities for lasting growth and profitability.    Responsibilities:  • Developing and Maintaining all sites of Linked Local Network using Wordpress.  • Collecting requirements to design the sites.  • Installing, configuring, maintaining and administering Wordpress.  • Modifying PHP, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Jquery according to project requirements.  • Websites design according to the requirements.  • Providing Tech support to the entire team to solve issues on all sites.  • Identifying and adding required plugins for all the sites.  • Identifying and solving issues caused by plugins or feeds under PHP,MYSQL,HTML,CSS,Javascript and JQuery Technology.  • Helping the team in knowledge sharing, training and helping them to solve any kind of issues.  • Playing the role of Admin to the sites which involves adding feeds, plugins, upgrading, creating required categories and tags, maintain sites, resolving bugs reported across all sites.  • Updating themes, database and plugins. Redesigning the application pages according to client requirements.  • Creating test environment to verify and confirm compatibility of new version Wordpress and Plugins  • Maintaining MySQL database through PHPMYADMIN.  • Migrating MySQL data from one database to another.  • Analyzing requirements to implement Google Analytics on Wordpress sites.  • Creating pages for Sponsors and Advertisers to improve business through sites by adding Google business photos, Google map related to them in sites.  • Providing CSS related solutions to achieve required UI for sites.  • Documenting design, release activities and bug fix procedures.  • Managing projects and bug tracking through ASANA.  • Training new team members about functionalities and design of sites.  • Single person to handle all tech team related work and issues for the entire LLN team.  • Helping columnists to post on sites, solving any issues faced by them.    Environment: PHP, HTML,XHTML,JavaScript, Jquery,CSS, MYSQL, PHPMYADMIN, Apache, Linux, RSS feeds, WinSCP, Wordpress,Dreamweaver, ASANA, Dropbox, Google ADS, Google Maps, Google Business Photos with iframe, Google Analytics. Education Bachelor's