Programmer Programmer Programmer - Allied Logistics Santa Isabel, PR Programmer and developer skilled with motivation and ambition in database with database developer and  administration. More than five years of experience designing, coding, testing and supporting to Dynamics NAV,  MS SQL databases, transactional applications, SSRS (Reporting Services) and Power BI. With an educational  degree is in MBA-Database at Polytechnic University of Puerto Rico. Ability to accomplish task under minimal  supervision. A dynamic worker with a desired to use updated professional skills and abilities to benefit the goals  and objectives. Work Experience Programmer Allied Logistics - Caguas, PR July 2014 to Present Develop and design a transactions website for external clients to tracking orders, inventory and events.  ? Programming and development tasks for front end and back end external and internal applications.  ? Individually created various reports according to the management requirements for metrics and scorecard reports.  ? As a part of a team, created a scanning system to register all inbound and outbound pieces at the warehouse.  ? Designed a multiples database maintenance plans to set up regularly backed up in case of system failure  or emergency situations.  ? Manage and solve user requests operations through a ticket system to provide reports, support and configuration of clients in the system.  ? As a part of a team, set up new clients, client's rates, billing reports, internal and external reports and transmit EDI documents to the clients.  ? Improve T-SQL query performance and optimizations.  ? Created numerous complex queries involving multiple joins, procedures, views and pivot techniques for diverse management requirements.  ? Monitor and maintain different operational applications, automatic reports, backups, maintenance  plans, and website.  ? Develop real-time reports for decision making by joining multiple databases using SSRS and Power BI.  ? Intermediate / Advanced experience in concepts, standards and practices of database administration in MS SQL    1 Web Developer Technologic Valley - Guaynabo, PR September 2013 to 2014 Create website about public places in PR and their amenities  ? Use google geolocation  ? Obtain user location and trace the route to a specific point  ? Using Twitter API to filter tweets by cardinal points  ? Create search of beaches using filtration by region and town  ? Rated beaches in general or according to the amenities  ? Send email suggestions, opinion or recommendations  ? Sign in up with Facebook, Twitter or account in web page  ? Manage database page Programmer Roche Operations LTD - Ponce, PR February 2012 to May 2012 Create an asset tracking application  ? User Login  ? Create reports:  o on equipment provided to employees of the company  o hardware inventory  o When deliver the hardware  o How many hardware are provided  ? It is used in filtrated reports by date and department.  ? Search by name Education MBA in Computer Information Systems Polytechnic University of Puerto Rico - Hato Rey, PR 2017 Bachelor in Computer Science in Information Systems University of Puerto Rico - Ponce, P.R., US Skills Microsoft access, Access 2003, Microsoft access 2003, Mysql, Sql, Programming, Cobol