Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - Jennifer Convertible Edison, NJ • Over 9+ years of IT experience as a Front-End UI Developer with JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5, DOM, AJAX, CSS3, AngularJS, Angular 2/4, Bootstrap, JSON.  • Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap3/4, JavaScript, Typescript, jQuery, AngularJS that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible.  • Proficient in handling Bootstrap framework i.e., the concept of Grids, making use of advance components like, Navigation bar, Pagination, Alerts, Dropdown menu etc.  • Experience on working with CSS background, layouts, lists and links, Positioning, Float, Align, Pseudo-class, Pseudo Elements, Dimension, Box model, texts, borders, margin, padding, and tables  • Developed UI reporting and charting with ChartJS with Underscore.js for responsive canvas interactions.  • Experience in using the latest approaches including MVC in the browser, event-driven applications using JavaScript framework like AngularJS, Angular (2.0 and 4.0) Node JS, Express.js, DOM.  • Consumed the REST API using JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS. Used jQuery for DOM manipulations.  • Expertise in using AngularJS directives, Controllers, Filters, Services, Temples, Events and Injectors.  • Good knowledge in Angular2/4 concepts like Components, bindings, Observables, Reactive Forms, custom validators, AUTH Guards.  • Migrated some of the application from Angular.JS 1 to Angular 2 and componentize the code as per the Angular.JS recommendations for better testability.  • Proficient in developing Mean Stack web application using AngularJS, Angular2/4, Node.js, Express and MongoDB.  • Experience in implementing MongoDB CRUD (Create Read Update Delete) operations by using Mongoose library in NodeJS.  • Implemented Angular Router to enable navigation from one view to the next as user performs application tasks.  • Good experience in creation of Angular custom directives Filters and Services.  • Used Node Package Manager (NPM) to manage the modules and used it to install useful tools such as Grunt, Express, passport.js.  • Expertise in implementation and development of RESTful Web APIs, and expose endpoints using HTTP methods like GET, POST.  • Experienced in using Front End editors like Visual Studio Code, Notepad++, Sublime Text, Eclipse.  • Hands on Experience in NoSQL data stores like MongoDB and SQL database like MySQL.  • Expertise in worked on different browsers like Mozilla Firefox, Google chrome, Safari and Internet Explorer.  • Deployment of applications in Apache servers.  • Written unit test scripts for controllers, filters and services using karma, Jasmine. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Jennifer Convertible - Woodbury, NY August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked with web designers to develop user interfaces and prototypes for a web-based internal system.  • Designed and implemented user interface for web-based customer application using HTML5, CSS3, Typescript, JSON, AJAX and Angular2.  • Used CSS3 Media Queries and Flexbox to develop single responsive application with good user experience in all platforms like desktops, tablets and mobile phones.  • Implemented pop out window using Bootstrap and jQuery.  • Used Chart.js with Underscore.js(filter JSON) for creating drilldown Graphs and charts for payments section and also implemented the filtering functionality for the graphs.  • Used AJAX calls and JSON through Angular http to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data from restful web service.  • Defined new validations through Angular for the form field validation implemented using directives like valid, pristine, checked and sanitizing the form.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for a web application, page navigation using Angular 2.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component-based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Used ngModel to achieve two-way binding and using ngIf to display the validation message and error message.  • Implement FormGroup to pack data as an object and reduce the data trans times.  • Created custom, self-contained, reusable, and testable Components, Directives and Services to implement key functionalities in the system.  • Experience with Angular Directives, Dependency Injection, Services, Routing, Animations, Forms, RXJS.  • Worked on Angular by consuming RESTful web services and used Angular forms like Template Driven forms and Modern Driven forms to perform form validations both on server and client side  • Used AJAX to make the service calls from the web page in the background using jQuery without performing a browser refresh.  • Implemented Angular Promises to handle asynchronous communication with Rest API for various requirements.  • Developed single page web application using JavaScript framework Angular and Created multi custom directives by defining Angular 2 directives.  • Extensive experience with Angular 2, creating custom directives, decorators, and services to interface with both restful and legacy network services also DOM applications.  • Implemented Angular2 Controllers to maintain each view data and Implemented Angular Service calls using Angular Factory.  • Optimized the code for reusability using the Decorators and injecting the services to access those in any components by using the providers property in Angular Components.  • Worked on Routes in Angular to create the base route and extensions by using Router Config as an injectable URL path and customized component for each of the webpage.  • Involved in developing and consuming RESTful Service using Node.js with MySQL for fetching dynamic data for display.  • Written the SQL statement, Stored Procedure and functions to retrieve data from MySQL.  • Refactored code to improve its maintenance and extensibility and reduce its complexity.  • Involved in writing test plan using Jasmine and Karma to ensure 100% code coverage.  • Used GIT for source control and JIRA for tracking purposes.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, Ajax, Angular2, Node.js, Express.js, MySQL, RESTful, XML, Chrome Inspector, Jasmine, Karma, GIT Web Developer Guidepoint - New York, NY March 2016 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Complete exposure with MEAN (MongoDB, Express, AngularJS, Node.js) full stack programming.  • Developed Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS and injected generic services using AngularJS.  • Implemented AngularJS Routing and navigation, Components, Services.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by AngularJS.  • Used AngularJS to connect the web application to back-end APIs, used RESTFUL methods to interact with several API's, and wrote custom directives for a responsive, CSS-animated user interface.  • Developed API back ends using Node.js to allocate access to data in MongoDB.  • Actively involved in mock screens development and project start-up phase.  • Used Node.JS as a lightweight webserver and also to resolve JavaScript dependencies.  • Used AngularJS http service extensively to consume REST api in the application..  • Designed user interface for different modules using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards  • Generated responsive data tables using with Bootstrap grid system.  • Manipulated data using CRUD operations of MongoDB and handled database access and data transmission based on RESTful web service.  • Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the MongoDB for the application on devices.  • Used GIT tool to keep track of all work and all changes in source code and deployed the applications.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, NODE.JS, AJAX, JSON, XML, Bootstrap 3.x, MongoDB, Jasmine, Karma, Git. UI Developer Breather - New York, NY September 2014 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for creating AngularJS controllers, UI development using AngularJS, JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript, AJAX and JSON.  • Used AngularJS to create Single Page Applications that bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Used ng-router to create different hierarchy structure in single page application.  • Created and developed AngularJS components such as controllers, services, factories, filters, and models.  • Implemented client-side validations by using Angular Form and HTML Form Validation, Type and Attribute Restrictions to validate the client inputs.  • Wrote custom-directives to reuse the code for DOM manipulation as well as using custom-filters to format the data before displaying them in the view.  • Involved in implementing Bootstrap layout/grid system to set the basic layout of webpages, and used Bootstrap to build Navigation bar, Drop-down menu, Image Carousel, Model, Form, Table, Tabs.  • Implemented different kind of build-in and Custom Filters in AngularJS to format the outputs.  • Used ng-option to create a drop-down list to implement search by different categories.  • Used AngularJS factory to store JSON data retrieved from back-end MongoDB database and use AngularJS ng-repeat directive to iterate and display them on the browser.  • Proficient in creating AngularJS factories to utilize AngularJS services like http and to make RESTful API calls to Node.js based backend.  • Experience on REST web service calls and getting response by sending request in node- platform.  • Handled database access and data transmission based on node server RESTful Web Services and used MongoDB to store the light weight business such as the specific information for each module.  • Involved setting up NPM (node package manager) installation to manage modules as well as using Sublime Text Editor for application Development.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AngularJS, RESTful Web Services, Node.js, MongoDB, Mongoose, Jasmine, Karma. Dot Net Developer HTC Global Services - Grand Rapids, MI April 2010 to August 2012 Responsibilities:  • Created technical documentation at each stage of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Effectively used ASP.Net state management techniques to maintain state between pages.  • Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA)  • Developed Applications of ASP.NET using Server controls, HTML Controls, Data Grid, Data List and Validation Controls  • Used Model View Controller (MVC) architectural Design Patterns for the development of the product.  • Designed and developed n-layered applications which constitute Presentation Layer, Business Logic Layer and Data Access Layer  • Used CSLA framework for building the business rules validations and for roles in the application.  • Analyzed the performance of the application by profiling the code using ANTS Performance Profiler 6 from Red Gate.  • Used ANTS Memory Profiler 5 to analyze arbitrarily large number of memory snapshots and for Large Object heap fragmentation statistics.  • Created VB Classes for uploading the Loan Documents to the FTP Server.  • Generated reports for the Under Writers using Dev Express Reporting Tool and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)    Environment:.NET Framework 3.0, Visual Studio.NET 2010, VB.NET, ADO.NET, SOA, MVC, Web Services, Developer Express Controls Volume 1, CSLA, ANTS Memory Profiler 5, ANTS Performance Profiler 6, SQL Loader, SQL Server 2008, SSRS, Team Foundation Server, Windows 2008 R2 server. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (4 years), AngularJS (3 years), Bootstrap (4 years), JavaScript (4 years), JSON (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills  Operating System Windows, Mac OS, Linux/Unix  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ES6, AJAX, XML, JSON  JavaScript Library and Frameworks AngularJS 1.7, Angular2.0, jQuery, Node.js, Express.js, Bootstrap 3.0/4.0  Workflow Responsive Web Design, Single Page Applications  Project Management Tools Gulp, Grunt, Web pack  IDE Eclipse, IntelliJ, Notepad++ and Sublime Text, WebStorm, Visual Studio Code.  Version Control\Database Git, SVN \ MONGODB, SQL Server  Debugging Tools Firebug, Chrome or safari web inspectors and IE Developer Toolbar  Testing Tools Karma, Jasmine, QUnit  Web/Application Server Apache Tomcat 4.1, and XAMPP