Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Troy, MI Work Experience Web Developer Inbound281 - Troy, MI February 2017 to Present Inbound281 (Michigan, USA)  * Create interactive and highly useable web pages and web applications.  * Analyze Client needs and software requirements to determine feasibility of design within the time constraint and templating various screens for the client to visualize the application that hasn't yet been developed; Using Enterprise Architect design data models, reduce redundancy and manage enterprise data models;  * Consult with Client to identify current operating procedures to clarify program objectives; Design and document the process and sequence of steps to describe logical operations involved;  * Responsible for project planning activities, design meetings, architectural reviews, and code reviews while for designing and developing the web application by converting and convert functional business requirements into technical system specifications.  * Build and maintain robust code for the highly scalable Client application with cutting-edge performance and cross browser and platform compatibility. Configure endpoints to return SOAP, JSON, and XML and consume existing methods exposed by web services.  * Design, build and maintain efficient, reusable and reliable code development using Amazon Web Services, MEAN Stack, KnockoutJS, Nginx, PHP, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, GIT, Bootstrap, CSS, HTML.; Performing Root-cause analysis for the reported issues and provide fixes.  * Work with EC2 server on AWS, launching instances, creating security groups, volumes, keypairs, maintaining load balancers, snapshots and AMI's. Support the critical applications in production and testing servers to of the functional defects. Maintain images and syncing data on S3 bucket.  * Design database and perform database operations such as creating tables, update schema, modifying existing tables and any data changes using SQL Server. Develop and maintain SQL server backup scripts, tools in SQL Server 2016 and recovery procedures and processes.  * Work with MongoDB to export data, create dumps, generate reports using Robo 3T Studio. Sync from production to staging or development environments and changing the storage engine of a standalone platform.  * Designed and developed university websites on Hubspot platform. Used HubL code as templating language to create editable modules, define conditional template logic and integrate with HubDB thereby the users through CMS can manage the content displayed on these websites. Worked with salesforce team to receive the data from these applications.  * Prepare the application training sessions in a logical order for the end users. Work closely with infrastructure team as technical matter expert to troubleshoot new development issues related to code deployments and implementations, providing documentation and guidance to support teams. Software Engineer NTC Corporation May 2016 to January 2017 Ohio, USA)  * Being a member of a development team working on programming, enhancing, and maintaining finite element software and CAE data management software for Windows, Linux, and MAC platforms.  * Responsibilities included defining requirements and functional specifications to satisfy customer workflows, utilizing structured and object-oriented analysis and design techniques, implementing and integrating algorithms, creating and executing quality assurance and quality certification test plans, and assisting with documentation.  * Support activities included addressing internally and externally reported bugs and maintaining test suites.  * Worked with QA Engineers with reviewing and analyzing requirements, developing/executing test cases for specific applications across company's environments and helping complete assigned QA efforts. Web Developer Eastern Michigan University April 2015 to April 2016 Michigan, USA)  * Pioneered a newly placed CMS, initiated control of websites and content, built website's design,  * Involved in installation of server and setting up the configurations.  * Generating new template websites for each department as per client design view.  * Customizing and evaluating university website at the end of each integration cycle.  * Streamlining effective file transfers using ftp and sftp server.  * Constructing pcf files and publishing them on production server.  * Customizing OUCampus for managing content uploads and display format.  * Facilitate content management system for department employees to edit or add content to their website.  * Prioritize pages sent for approval and publishing on webstage server before making them live.  * Studied SSH tunnel connections and used mysql test server for adapting values in database.  * Managing Security (Creating users, logins and roles, granting permissions).  * Daily Log checking for errors on production server and windows system monitor alerts.  * Ensuring data consistency through DBCC commands. Software Developer IITLabs - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 to May 2014 India)  * Presented software engineering expertise in the development of products through the software engineering lifecycle, from requirements definition stage through successful deployment of project.  * Streamlining effective file transfers using ftp and sftp server. Optimized query performance by creating indexes.  * Assignments involved repairing broken links and apps, monitoring and maintaining databases, re-purposing code, working within the content management system to set up website pages and assist users and writing documentation for existing applications.  * Wrote T-SQL statements for retrieval of data and involved in performance tuning of T SQL queries and stored Procedures.  * Demonstrated strong PHP and HTML knowledge with ability in troubleshooting a problem in logical and organized manner.  * Designing and developing the software application accordingly using object-oriented programming concepts.  * Scheduled the backups for Databases and Transaction log. Performed restoration operations.  * Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan and disaster recovery strategies  * Implementing Java Server Pages and OOPs concepts in the business logic.  * Stored, Retrieved and manipulated data to analyze the system capabilities. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Eastern Michigan University - Ypsilanti, MI Bachelor's in Computer Science Engineering in Computer Science Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh Skills Amazon web services, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Angularjs, HTML5, Jquery, Wordpress, PHP, Front End, Angular, C#