Full-Stack Developer Full-Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full-Stack Developer - Fenton Construction Co., Inc Boston, MA • Full Stack Developer with 5 years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Implementation, production support, and maintenance of N-Tier Application Systems in Internet environment using J2EE technologies such as Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring boot, Hibernate, etc.  • Experienced in all phases of the software development life cycle (SDLC), which includes User Interaction, Design/Architecture, Development, Implementation, Integration, Documentation, Testing, and Deployment.  • Expertise in OOP concepts with a strong understanding of Core JAVA including Inheritance, Polymorphism, Exception handling, Multithreading, Collections.  • Developed dynamic and responsive web pages using the HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Javascript, jQuery, and AJAX.  • Experienced in developing RESTful Web Service to provide data between different applications.  • Experienced in front-end Single Page Application (SPA) development using Angular Material, Angular CLI, Angular 2/4+, proficient in TyptScript to create directives, modules and services.  • Experienced in Database Analysis/Design/Normalization/Manipulation processes using SQL server 2017/2014/2012, SSMS. Strong programming skills in SQL Stored Procedures, functions, triggers, importing/exporting data from varied data sources.  • Skilled in validating development releases with TDD Methodology using Karma and Postman.  • Proven track record using both Agile/SCRUM and Waterfall methodologies.  • Worked on tools such as GIT, JIRA, and Slack for Source control and Version Control.  • Excellent communication, planning, time management skills and experienced working with cross-functional and global team environments. Work Experience Full-Stack Developer Fenton Construction Co., Inc - Township of Warren, NJ March 2018 to Present Description: Fenton Construction Co., Inc. is a General Contracting and Construction Management company located in Warren. The project involves a software which is a comprehensive construction management solution that includes a full estimation, scheduling, and programming functionality, ensuring that all the project teams are working from one central data source.    Responsibilities:  • Built web applications that supports logging and managing accounts online via Spring Boot (dependency injection, AOP, REST API etc.)  • Implemented the middle tier with Spring framework and integrated that with the Hibernate framework. Mapped Objects in DAO layer and columns in database tables by Hibernate.  • Used Spring Security for implementing user authentications, authorizations, and role-based security.  • Inherited from JPA Repository to execute CRUD operations.  • Used Advanced Core Java concepts of Collections, Multithreading, and Synchronization.  • Developed different POJO classes to map corresponding tables in MS-SQL and implemented table relationship by using OneToMany annotation.  • Designed and developed complex reusable components in Angular using JavaScript and for Dynamic web pages, such as Navigation bar, Dropdown Menu, Pop-up, etc.  • Used CRUD Repository and Criteria API to implement CRUD operations and pagination.  • Created services Angular 5 @injectable annotation, as to make the service available for dependency injection.  • Used Directives such as NgFor and NgIf to display dynamic web pages.  • Implemented AuthGuard such as CanActivate and CanDeactivate to protect certain routes for different user authentication statuses.  • Tested connections between Front-end and Back-end with RESTful APIs by Postman.  • Used Git for version control tool for merging branches.  • Worked in Agile Methodology (Scrum) development team.    Environment: Java 8, Spring boot, Hibernate 4, REST, Web Services, JUnit, Maven, Angular 5, Postman, Git, and IntelliJ IDE. Angular/ WEB API Developer Squarespace - New York, NY February 2017 to March 2018 Description: Squarespace is a private American company, based in New York City, which provides software as a service for website building and hosting. This web application is a user account management system for a telecom company, which is used for users to register a new account or manage their account, profile information, and cellphone plans.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering the requirements, analysis, design, and development of the project.  • Followed by Agile software development methodology to develop a SPA based on Angula5 for the front end, Spring MVC for the backend, and MS SQL for the database.  • Applied multiple layers in the application, such as Controller, Service, and Dao layers.  • Used Data Annotations for validation on the server-side.  • Developed front end components using HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Used Routing to realize the single page feature.  • Developed several Services for data transferring between components, and between front-end and back-end.  • Used Angular CLI to build the Angular front-end.  • Developed the front-end with HTML5, CSS3 and Angular Material.  • Built grid systems in front-end using Bootstrap.  • Expertise in T-SQL and extensive experience in Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions (UDF), Dynamic query design, Transactions, and Triggers as well as Query Optimization.  • Used JSON Web Token(JWT) for authentication, stored the JWT in local storage after successful login and used for auto-login.  • Used Http Client Module for sending requests to back-end, used Observables, RxJS pipe function and RxJS operators to manipulate the response data.  • Used Bootstrap3/4 and Media queries to make responsive web behaviors which make the application fits different devices such PC or mobile phone.  • Used JIRA and Git for source control and version control.    Environment: Angular 4, Spring MVC, CSS3, HTML5, MS Visual Studio, SQL Server Management Studio 2017, Agile, Scrum, and JIRA. Angular Developer CareJourney - Arlington, VA February 2016 to February 2017 Description: CareJourney provide actionable analytics and patient data warehousing to improve population health. The application can help manage clients' information, give access to add/update the medical care conduct history of their patients.    Responsibilities:  • Experienced in working with Angular 2 modules, services, templates, directives, services, and dependency injection to create a SPA.  • Used NPM for installing required node modules and other published Angular NPM modules.  • Extensively worked in creating Routing and managing View Model, Views, and Partial Views using MVC.  • Fixed bugs and refactored existing code which improved web functionality and speed.  • Experienced with deployments, maintenance, and troubleshooting applications on AWS.  • Worked in Agile Methodology and used for source control management.  Environment: Java 8, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JPA, REST, Web Services, Maven, Angular 2, Postman, Git, and IntelliJ IDE. Full Stack Web Developer EagleForce Associates Inc - Herndon, VA July 2015 to February 2016 Description: EagleForce Associates Inc delivers the most advanced evidence-based clinical insights and business intelligence for accurate and persistent informing available today. The project is to develop a responsive website for a non-profit organization to make them present information clearly to donors, potential volunteers, and people who need help from the organization.    Responsibilities:  • Coordinated with various departments and business lines to collect requirements, specifications, and prototype design of user interface and relevant documentation materials.  • Worked with the project manager and team leader for creating UML Diagrams (ER Diagram, Data Flow Diagram, Use Case Diagram, and Class Diagram.)  • Designed front end components using HTML, CSS, and jQuery Bootstrap web frameworks.  • Implemented N-tier architecture in various projects to keep UI, Business Logic, and Data Access layers separate and allow for easier testing.  • Used Git for version control and Agile/Scrum methodology for development.    Environment: CSS3, HTML5, jQuery, AJAX, Spring Framework, Visual Studio, SQL Server, Agile, Scrum, JIRA, and eclipse. Full-Stack Developer AssistRx - Orlando, FL July 2014 to July 2015 Description: AssistRx develops configurable and cutting-edge technology solutions to streamline the processes of prescribing, distributing, and administering specialty medications for improved adherence and speed to therapy. The project is to develop, improve, and design backend data processing and communication with Web-based Ophthalmology data management.    Responsibilities:  • Developed application using JSP, Spring MVC, and Hibernate.  • Used XML based configuration to wire the dependency components together and to define bean classes.  • Created Stored Procedures in the MS SQL Server 2008 database to perform various database operations.  • Maintained User Authentication based on user role.  • Implemented inline editing and sorted functionalities using jQuery.    Environment: jQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS3, AJAX, JSP, JDBC, Microsoft SQL Server 2008, and Visual Studio. Education Master of Computer Science in Computer Science The George Washington University Skills Hibernate, Spring, jquery, Jsp, Servlet, Front-end, Git, Javascript, Json, Database, Jdbc, Mysql, Sql, Html5, Mvc, Ajax, Security, Tomcat, Rest, Apache Links http://@injectable Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages Java7/8, Python2/3, SQL  Back-end Technologies Spring Boot, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Servlet, Hibernate, JSP, JDBC  Front-end Technologies HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, REST, Angular2/4+, jQuery, Ajax, JSON  Framework Tools Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Spring Security  Application Servers Apache Tomcat  Database MS-SQL, MySQL  Testing/Control Tools Git, Postman, Karma