Sr. Drupal Developer Sr. Drupal <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Drupal Developer - General Motors, MI Reston, VA • Over 8 years of experience in PHP development with creation of websites and enterprise application using LAMP, PHP, Drupal, WORDPRESS.  • Drupal Architect/ Developer with over 5 years of experience working on migration and other web and API development projects. Strong expertise on DRUPAL 3- LAYER ARCHITECHTURE.  • Areas of expertise include object-oriented PHP, SQL SERVER, MYSQL (LAMP / WAMP stack), XML, Web service.  • 4+ years designing, building & supporting complex DRUPAL web applications for large consumer focused websites. Used DRUPAL 6, 7, 8.  • Proficient in building User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using HTML/HTML5, XHTML, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, React.js, AJAX, JSON, XML, Twitter Bootstrap.  • Working experience on CSS background, CSS positioning, CSS Text, CSS Broder, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, pseudo classes, pseudo elements.  • Experience working with CSS compilers like SASS/SCSS and LESS.  • Highly experienced with modern JS frameworks and libraries like AngularJS and jQuery, Bootstrap.  • Experienced in solving issues in web browsers, following the W3C standards to maintain the website with defect free.  • Extensive experience in design, analysis, development, Version Control and Production Support of full life cycle or SDLC experience, multi-tier, database and script-based in web-based & desktop applications.  • Created New Templates for the administrator areas with various options to be implemented Using Drupal.  • Developed custom Drupal Theme to effectively address business requirements.  • Used SQL queries to update and retrieve needed information from the Database.  • Experienced in various IDEs like Eclipse, Notepad++, Sublime Text, Microsoft Visual Studio.  • Experience in Applications using AJAX, Object Oriented JavaScript, JSON, JSONP, and XML and MVC Architecture and also have experience in using version control (SVN).  • Experience in Web API to build REST based interfaces.  • Extensive experience in working with Eclipse, My Eclipse, Toad and Version Controls such as CVS.  • Creative Knowledge in Art creation, modification and conversion- Logos, print media, web page and software interface design using Photoshop, Adobe Flash and Illustrator.  • Extensively used JavaScript, Angular.js and Asynchronous JavaScript and XML (AJAX) technologies to build dynamic web contents with high performance.  • Designed and developed relational database systems and Client/Server applications.  • Used the latest HTML5 elements for video playback, content rendering using semantic tags such as article, section etc.  • Excellent troubleshooting, debugging and problem solving skills for technical issue.  • Specialties in Accessible Web design and development, W3C Web Content Accessibility Guidelines.  • Strong Analytical, Problem Solving and debugging skills with excellent understanding of system development metrics, techniques and tools.  • Experience on developing which also includes web services like Web, REST, RESTFUL API'S etc. with the help of WSDL, SOAP and JAX-WS, MongoDB and AWS to get updates from the third parties.  • Experience in developing Ext-JS components like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, and Combo-Box and Button etc.  • Passionate to create an excellent work environment through coordination and co-operation with the team members and other departments  • Good communication skills, Interpersonal skills and strong ability to excel through collaboration with team members. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Drupal Developer General Motors, MI September 2017 to Present At GM, We connect the next generation of innovators with the latest technology to support our mission to design, build and sell the world's best vehicles. General Motor company also known as GM, is an American Multinational corporation headquartered in Detroit, Michigan, that designs, manufactures, markets and distributes vehicles and vehicle parts and sell financial services.    Responsibilities:  • Developed fully functional, cross browser compatible websites on DRUPAL platform utilizing Agile and Scrum methodologies.  • Worked as a part of team on a series of Drupal sites(D8), which included custom panels, blocks, content types, and views that allow every user to customize the look of their site.  • Created Drupal modules for Active log sessions and Service Reporting System.  • Maintained groups of multiple users with Drupal CMS.  • Worked heavily on DRUPAL CMS development and developed various custom modules.  • Site content migration from Drupal 6 to Drupal 7 and Drupal 8.  • Implemented dashboard enhancements to the Verified website using PHP, LARAVEL Framework, JQuery and HTML5.  • Worked with design patterns like singleton pattern and registry pattern in Symphony web application framework as well as Model-View-Control (MVC) pattern in ZEND framework.  • Worked on front-end to make web pages more dynamic via AJAX and JQUERY.  • Designed layouts using HTML, CSS, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  • Used Angular.JS MVC architecture to split the UI logic into Views, Models and Collections.  • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, Angular.JS, JavaScript, JQuery and Ajax.  • Used Angular.JS for heavy DOM manipulation and Developed HTML views with HTML5, CSS3, and JQUERY.  • Used Bootstrap for designing web pages to get responsive designs.  • Deployed application software on Linux Server with Juniper router configuration.  • Used all aspects of MySQL/PHP Programming (object oriented PHP), Zend Framework in LAMP environment.  • Developed PHP based server side API using Zend framework and implemented MVC architecture.  • Experience on digital-media consulting with adobe Photoshop, macromedia freehand.  • Created Client-Side UI with object- oriented JavaScript and AJAX with API.  • Parsing the JSON requests and responses by creating reports from child data.  • Used JavaScript and JQUERY for user interactivity for making the websites dynamic.  Environment: Drupal 7/8, REST API, OAuth, PHP 5, HTML 5, XHTML, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript,  MySQL, Windows, Apache, LAMP stack, MVC Frame Work, jQuery. Drupal Developer Altice USA, NY March 2016 to September 2017 Altice USA is one of the largest broadband communications and video services providers in the United States. We are a subsidiary of Altice NV (Euronext: ATC, ATCB), a convergent global leader in telecom, content, media, entertainment and advertising.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for designing and implementing new features and functionality.  • Working with multiple Drupal sites for Optimum.net and Optimum.com  • Enhanced the current Drupal Site with custom and contributed modules using agile methodology.  • Work closely with front-end developers to ensure an affective, visually appealing, functional and intuitive implementation.  • Created REST services to export Drupal data in a JSON format varnish ESI calls.  • Configured Varnish for caching.  • Using JIRA to track all the new tasks, issues and the backlogs.  • Use the Drush commands extensively for the development and deployment.  • Used PHPMYADMIN for MySQL connectivity and management.  • Maintain and improve website design and development.  • Performed a thorough unit testing and resolved several data related issues before migration to production.  • Maintained and supported existing applications built on the Drupal platform ensuring site availability.  • Support For all Drupal Sites when there's any Drupal Core Security Updates.    Environment: PHP5, Drupal 7/8, JavaScript, HTML5/CSS3, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Apache web server, REST API. PHP / Drupal Developer Verizon, CA February 2014 to March 2016 Verizon is an American broadband and Telecommunications Company, the largest U.S. wireless communication service provider as of September 2014.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Drupal-based website, including: Content types, Views and other functional requirements.  • Worked on Web Form Security for Forms authentication of user's registration.  • Worked on an open-source CMS to build website using Drupal7.  • Designed forms and user interfaces for administrator, supervisor and employee using Drupal and CSS.  • Created DRUPAL modules for quick approvals, billing and pay rates, custom reporting and payroll Integration.  • Extensively worked on efficient Drupal websites and Drupal development technologies such as Drush, Features, Panels, Services, and Context.  • Involved in implementing MVC architecture to segregate business logic from the view using OOP in PHP 5.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Used PHPMYADMIN for MySQL connectivity and management.  • Maintain and improve website design and development.  • Created report generator that queried the MYSQL database for user-specified information.  • Used AngularJS including authoring complex directives, services, controllers, and filters.  • Developed Single page application and structured the JavaScript code using Angular.JS.  • Implemented Bootstrap in developing UI.  • Deployed the application software on the Linux Server via Juniper router configuration.  • Performed a thorough unit testing and resolved several data related issues before migration to production.  • Used JQuery to make the HTML5, DHTML and CSS3 to interact with the JavaScript functions. Created pages in Mockups and validated the HTML code with W3C Validator. Involved in fixing Front-End issues with the layouts.    Environment:PHP5, JavaScript, Zend Framework, HTML5/CSS3, Angular.JS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Apache web server, LINUX PHP Web Developer Kohl's Corporation - Menomonee Falls, WI March 2012 to January 2014 Kohl's Corporation (Kohl's) is an operator of department stores. The Company also operates an e-commerce Website (www.Kohls.com). The Company operates over 1,160 department stores in approximately 50 states. The Company sells private label, exclusive and national brand apparel, footwear, accessories, beauty and home products .Developed browser based JavaScript application for mobile and desktop using AngularJS and Custom SASS solution.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Developed/Design the application using LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) architecture Communicated with client to fetch requirement and analyse requirement for developing functionality accordingly.  • Integrated existing Word Press modules as well as created custom themes, modules, views, functions and hooks.  • Provided access to authenticated as well as anonymous as authenticated users to create blogs, post comments in Word Press.  • Developed LARAVEL application for managing Google analytics test.  • Used ZEND-Debugger for the error resolutions.  • Building the website from scratch in APTANA.  • Implemented Bootstrap in developing UI.  • Conceived and designed database tables in MYSQL.  • Built custom UI Widgets and Application logic using UI and MVC architecture.  • Extensively worked with JQuery UI for Effects.  • Designed theme using HTML /XHTML, CSS.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while following code standards  • Used php My Admin to handle the administration of MYSQL over the World Wide Web.  • Developed presentation layer using HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, AJAX etc.  • Tracked and fixed bugs that were found during various phases of developments.  • Defined and developed the application's presentation layer using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed cross browser and multi browser compatible web pages using HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.  • Produced content pages with CSS layout and style mark-up presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Created the screens with table-less designs emphasizing W3C standards.  • Worked on CSS Background, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, CSS floats, cross browser compatibility and CSS behaviours in CSS.    Environment: PHP5, JavaScript, Zend Framework, HTML5/CSS3, Angular.JS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Apache web server, LINUX. Web Developer NOVA - IN May 2010 to February 2012 Responsibilities:  • Designed, developed and documented all UI components for the application in accordance with business requirements using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax.  • Performed full life-cycle development, planning and integration of web-based software solution using PHP, Word Press, JavaScript, java, AJAX, and MySQL.  • Daily content change migrations as per Business requirement, such as creating forms, updating the existing forms to accept improvised validations.  • Worked on page load optimization, unit testing and implemented SEO.  • Built AJAX pages using PHP and created various asynchronous web applications.  • Integrating user-facing elements by front-end developers.  • Involved in setting up and maintaining Word Press servers.  • Worked on building custom Word Press plugins.  • Involved in developing Word Press themes and plugins.  • Worked on Linux Environment and familiar with VI editor and file operations in Linux.  • Good knowledge in REST APIs and their integration to Word Press.  • Installed and worked with Subversion for versioning control.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery, PHP, Servlets, AJAX, JSON, XML, Apache Tomcat, MySQL, Firebug, Chrome Developer Tools. Education Bachelor of Technology in Information Technology JNTU Skills APACHE (8 years), HTML5 (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), jQuery (8 years), MYSQL (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages-PHP, Java, JavaScript  Web Technologies:-HTML5, CSS3, XML, JSON, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap  CMS/Frameworks: -Drupal7/8, Word press, Zend, LAMP/WAMP stack.  IDEs worked on:-Eclipse IDE, Web Storm  Source code Editors-Sublime, Notepad++  Application Servers: -Tomcat Apache Server, HTTP Web Server  Tools-GIT, SVN  Database-MySQL, Microsoft SQL SERVER  Browser-All (IE, Firefox, Opera, Chrome, Safari)