.Net web Developer .Net <span class="hl">web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> .Net web Developer - California Assessor Association Los Angeles, CA • Senior .NET Developer with around 7+ years of experience in Microsoft Technologies in Designing, Developing and Implementing client/server applications, Agile Methodology, web development, Object Oriented Programming in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using .NET Framework 4.5/4.0/3.5, ASP .NET/MVC, C#, ADO.NET.  • Having extensive experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Architecture, Requirement analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, Debugging, Testing, Documentation and Maintenance of Client/Server and web-based applications.  • Having experience in various domains like health, insurance, banking, oil and gas etc.  • Built front end applications and back end logics for health, insurance, banking, oil and gas etc.  • Experience in AngularJS structural framework for dynamic web apps.  • Effectively used JQuery a concise JavaScript Library for traversing HTML document, event handling and AJAX interactions.  • Experienced in the development of database applications using ADO.NET objects.  • Experience in Database Analysis/Design/Normalization/Manipulation processes using SQL Server, MS Access, and Oracle. Extensively worked on stored procedures and user defined functions.  • Database Design, Development, and Administration using MS SQL Server, MS Access & Oracle.  • Strong knowledge in designing, developing reports using MS-Access, SQL Server 2000/2005 Reporting Services and Crystal Reports.  • Used Multithreading concepts like events and locks to execute multiple tasks in application.  • Hands-on experience on C# all versions.  • Experience in development and usage of Web Services using WSDL, SOA, UDDI and SOAP.  • Experienced with Object Oriented Programming (OOP) design patterns such as Singleton, Abstract Factory, Factory Method, Prototype, Builder, and Dependency Injection for C# and AngularJS.  • Experience in developing ASP.NET Web custom controls, user controls, Data Controls like Data Grid, Rich UI with extensive use of ASP.NET, Angular JS, Bootstrap and JQuery.  • Experience on UI Design using Telerik controls, Bootstrap and AJAX control toolkit.  • High expertise with SQL Server Business Intelligence Tools - SSRS, SSIS.  • Experience with design and development of applications using MVC, MVVM design patterns.  • Developed, configured and deployed a variety of .Net Framework Applications including WinForms, Web Forms, Web Services and Windows Services.  • Experience in Version Management using Visual Source Safe (VSS), Subversion, GIT and TFS.  • Good understanding of Common Language Runtime (CLR) and its characteristics.  • Experience with all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Experience working on both Waterfall and Agile methodologies. Work Experience .Net web Developer California Assessor Association - Los Angeles, CA April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • The SDR/eSDR System was completely rewritten using latest technologies such asAngular JS, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, MVC, c# 4.5, WEBAPI, SQL Server 2014.  • Developed one of the main forms (Apartment House property statement) on theSDR Public Taxpayer's portal using latest web technologies like Angular JS,Bootstrap, HTML 5 and CSS3.  • Experience in working as a Full stack developer, creating SPs, development of the Business and Data layer, facade layer , WEBAPI Controller and the Angular client.  • Developed Interactive and Responsive UI elements using Angular Material JS, Kendo UI on the SDR County Portal.  • Experience in creating Angular directives to achieve the reusability of the components.  • Experience in AngularJS controllers, directives, filters,components, factory  • And service resources, routings and events.  • Experience in DOM manipulation using JavaScript, jQuery and AngularJS.  • Actively involved in angularizing the legacy application.  • Worked on UI Grid design and manipulation using KENDO UI controls.  • Actively Involved from Analysis to Implementation of the SDR County Portal.  • Experience in creating complex SQL Stored Procedures, functions in SQL server 2014.  • Experience in working with TVPs for the large volume processing of the data from the application.  • Have Experience in working with WebAPI RestFul services for the server side routing.  • Good Experience in Validations on both Client side and Server side. Experience in working with fluent validations on the server side.  • Implemented Microsoft Enterprise Library Data access application block for data access  • Used ADO.Net for data retrieving, querying, storage, manipulation and for achieving disconnected database connectivity.  • Involved in SQL Server performance fine tuning  • Involved in resolving Production bugs and delivered them on time.    Environment: ASP.NET 4.6, Visual Studio 2015,Angular JS,WebAPI, Bootstrap, Kendo UI,Enterprise Library, ADO.Net, LINQ,MVC,Team Foundation Server 2015, C#.NET, Ajax controls, SQL Server 2014. .NET Developer Department of Health - Washington, DC December 2016 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Utilize established development tools, guidelines and conventions including but not limited toASP.NET MVC4.0, SQL Server, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, and C#.  • Developed new user interface components for different modules using Kendo UI and user interfaces with Telerik controls.  • Design, code and test new Windows and web software applications. Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance.  • Enhance existing systems by analyzing business objectives, preparing an action plan and identifying areas for modification and improvement.  • Developed Web services/Rest Services for building applications that send and receive messages by using the Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) over HTTP.  • Worked on EchoSign a web-based electronic signature for online signatures on the documents  • Maintain existing software systems by identifying and correcting software defects.  • Investigate and develop skills in new technologies and Create technical specifications and test plans. Recording work progress on a weekly basis and primarily assigned for developing Middle Tier.  • Works from written specifications and pre-established guidelines to perform the functions of the job and maintains documentation of process flow.  • Involved in all the stages of SDLC and interacted with offshore team. Completely understand the importance of Quality of work in deliverables given to client  • Used Azure Dev ops for Version Control, creating and managing projects and accessing the items that are stored and managed for a project.  • Responsible for designing the ASP.NET application authentication using .NET Framework, Model View Controller MVC and IIS security model.  • Implemented Query Expressions, Expression Trees to get the data from SQL and XML using LINQ toSQL and LINQ to XML.  • Worked on Web API and RESTFUL Service API using WCF 4.0 which return XML and JSON data using WCF attributes.  • Developed solutions for diverse programming scenarios in C#, employing Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts such as: encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism, and abstraction.  • Integrated process into build system which auto-generates RESTFUL API documentation from improving API documentation quality and availability while reducing maintenance costs.  • Worked Extensively with Query Optimization Techniques to Fetch Data with better Performance Tuning.  • Supervised the development of functional documents for the application. Participated in various Client meetings with the team and the Project manager to discuss improvements/amendments in the development of the section.  • Developed security for WCF service endpoints. Designing of WCF based Service, Data, Fault and Message Contracts. Hosting the WCF services.  • Implemented Unit Testing, Integration Testing and System Testing using NUNIT.    Environment: C#, .NET 4.0/4.5,WPF,Visual studio 2015/2013, WSDL, HTML5,CSS3, JavaScript, Entity framework, Prism, Net Remoting, MVC 5.0/4.0 ,Win Forms, JIRA, ORM, Restful Services, Angular JS, Bootstrap, JQuery, Agile, AJAX, XML, UML, IIS 8.0, SQL Server 2012, TFS-2012. .Net Developer Livonia, MI January 2016 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all stages of System Development Life Cycles (SDLC) including Requirements, Logical and Physical Architectural Modeling, Design, Development, Implementation and Support.  • Involved in the development of the Web Forms and web pages according to the specifications. Extensive experience on AJAX, HTML, XHTML, SAML, XACML.  • Designed and Developed middle tier business logic for Web clients using C# and ASP.NET.  • Used ADO.Net to store, manipulation and retrieve data from SQL Server DB. And database transactions were achieved through Dataset, Data view, Data Reader and SQL Data Adapter. Created various SQL server Stored Procedures to retrieve, manipulation and save data to SQL server 2005.  • Manage and monitor WCF services and WF persistence store using AppFabric.  • Strong knowledge and experience in Object Oriented concepts like Polymorphism, Inheritance, Abstraction, Encapsulation, and Aggregation using C#.  • Used JavaScript for Client-side page validation scripting so as to avoid the need for Post Back and there by improve the performance and responsiveness.  • Developed the UI component architecture for developer framework using Angular JS.  • Experienced in working with ASP.NET Web forms, ASP.NET State Management, ASP.NET Caching features and securing ASP.NET web applications using ASP.NET Authentication, Authorization and Roles.  • Analyzed and repaired of existing VB and VB.NET applications  • Performed various duties, including designing, development, testing and deployment of VB.NET applications as required  • Interacted with clients and senior developers to understand project requirements, and rewrote existing VBA applications using ASP.Net, VB and C# according to client specifications    Environment: Net Framework 3.5/ 4.0, ASP.net MVC 4, Visual Studio 2013, Web API, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular JS, JSON, C# / .NET Application Testing QA with EDI, ADO.NET, Entity Framework, SQL Server 2012, T-SQL, Oracle 9i, Microsoft Azure HTML, XML, XSL, Angular JS, SSRS Reports, SSIS, Visual Source Safe, TFS. .NET Web Developer Future Media India Ltd July 2013 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed solutions for diverse programming scenarios in C#, employing Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts such as: Encapsulation, Inheritance, Polymorphism, and Abstraction.  • Created & hosted WCF Services and used different bindings to make it available to different types of clients.  • Created User Controls, Data Access Layer, Business Logic Layer Classes using C# and .Net 3.5 for webpages.  • Written Stored Procedures in SQL Server 2008 used LINQ to Entities to bind the data to Grid View, Data List, Details view, Repeaters for data manipulation.  • Created and maintained database objects like complex Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Tables, Views and SQL Joins.  • Used ASP.NET MVC Page Controller pattern to add functionality to individual pages such that to accept input from the page request, invoke the requested actions on the mode.  • Coordinated with different teams and created support ticket for different issues, analyzed root cause and assisted in efficient resolution of all production processes.  • Extensively used crystal reports and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) for generating reports populated by data in databases.  • Used Reactive Extensions library for composing asynchronous and event-based programs using observable sequences and LINQ-style query operators.  • Involved in unit-testing web applications and in Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) for version controlling and assisted in documentation and creating Help files.    Environment: .Net 3.5, ASP.Net MVC 3, C#, ADO.Net, LINQ to SQL, AJAX, HTML, MS Visual Studio 2010, WCF, WPF, CSS, Win Forms and SQL Server 2008. .Net Developer ICICI Bank - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2012 to June 2013 Responsibilities:  • Created ASP.NET pages using C#.NET for middle-tier processing of client requests with ADO.NET interfaces for database and implemented stored procedures  • Used ADO.NET and data objects such as Data Adapter, Data Reader, Dataset, data table for consistent access to SQL data sources  • Involved in the design and development of WinForms using VB.Net  • Worked in WPF, C#, ASP.Net, VB.Net for GUI design and business logic implementation  • Provided Windows based and Form Based Security for Login and Authentication.  • Used WCF Services to communicate between web tier and app tier  • Back end Experience in MS SQL Server development, writing T-SQL stored procedures, triggers, UDF's, views and also indexes.  • Used Enterprise library for Database Connection and writing exception manager component, which creates a log file in event viewer.  • Implemented Unit Testing, Integration Testing and System Testing using NUNIT.    Environment: C#.NET, ASP.Net , .NET Framework 3.5/2.0, ADO.Net, MVC, XML Web Services, XAML, WCF,SSIS, SSRS, IIS 6.0, SQL SERVER 2005, Windows XP/2000.