Sr. Web/UI Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Web</span>/UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Web/UI Developer - Kroger Work Experience Sr. Web/UI Developer Kroger - Blue Ash, OH April 2018 to Present Working on NGP&P Merchandising Project. It is an internal website to replace Legacy Systems.    Responsibilities:  • Developing Web Application using Angular 6, Prime NG, ECMA Script 6, HTML5, CSS/CSS3 and LESS.  • Using Prime Ng components like Buttons, Tabs, Tables etc.  • Also using Prime Ng Charts and data toggle functionality.  • Involved in developing customized Kroger components such as Multi Select combo Box, Time Picker and progress wizards.  • Using LESS Variables, Nesting, and Mixins which makes code clean and maintainable.  • Using Node JS npm for local build to download all UI dependencies through Package JSON.  • Using Angular CLI to create the application by generating components, Services through simple commands.  • Using Git as Source Control Tool and Gitflow for Branch Workflow.  • Following W3C Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0, compliance level A standards for accessibility.  • Actively participates in scrum meetings, Refinements and took action items to implement those agile methodologies in various systems.  • Responsible for gathering the requirements, analyzing dependencies and solutioning.  • Responsible for development which has less number of bugs/defects.    Environment: Angular 6, Prime NG, HTML/HTML5, ECMA Script 6, Node JS, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap 4, LESS, JSON, IntelliJ, Git Flow, Jira. Sr. Web/UI Developer Pentagon Federal Credit Union - Cincinnati, OH October 2017 to March 2018 Working on redesigning Pen Fed Foundation Site which helps Veterans who are not able to pay their bills, by organizing Gala events and collecting Funds.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering the requirements, solutioning and developing.  • Developed Web pages using JavaScript, JQuery, Angular 4, HTML5, CSS/CSS3 and Bootstrap 4.  • Used Standard Bootstrap 4 for components like Buttons, Links, Tabs etc.  • Also used Bootstrap 4 Collapse, Cards, Horizontal and Vertical Navbar.  • Used Angular http service for making API calls to fetch data.  • Expert in using CSS3 media queries to make page responsive.  • Used SASS by taking advantage of SASS Variables, Nesting, and Mixins which makes coding fun and easily maintainable.  • Extensively used Node JS npm for local build process.  • Thoroughly followed W3C Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0, compliance level AA standards for accessibility.  • Strictly following Agile methodology and participated in scrum calls, grooming sessions etc.  • took lead on resolution of bugs resulting from the Foundation project.  • Responsible for testing cross browser compatibility and Responsiveness.    Environment: Angular 4, HTML/HTML5, JQuery, NodeJS, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap 4, SASS, JSON, Github, Jira. Sr. Web/UI Developer Verizon - Irvine, CA March 2016 to September 2017 Worked on Verizon DIGIFIRST Prepaid Rebuild Project.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering the requirements and analyzing the dependencies.  • Developed B2B E-Commerce Web pages using JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, Backbone JS, HTML5, CSS/CSS3 and Handlebars JS.  • Used Standard CSS for components like Buttons, Links, Tabs etc to maintain company standards.  • Used AJAX along with backbone Js for making API calls to fetch data asynchronously.  • Also created CSS to support page layouts that are cross-browser compatible on all the major browsers and Devices.  • Used Bootstrap, LESS to develop User Interface with responsive design.  • Worked with Eclipse IDE.  • Experience building templates using JavaScript templating tools like Underscore.js and Handlebars.js  • Extensively used Node JS npm and Grunt for local build process.  • Involved in story discussions to provide inputs on the interface design.  • Actively participated in daily scrum meetings to discuss about Team progress.  • Gained some knowledge of other frameworks through sharing and discussing individual thoughts in UI Weekly meetings.  • Established (CI) Continuous Integration to fully automate the deployment of application.  • Developed Grunt tasks like concatenating and minifying CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked on production defects and Fixed using Backbone JS and jQuery.  • Responsible for testing cross browser compatibility and Responsiveness.  • Good experience in debugging using Dev Tools.  • Used Source control applications like Git, Accurev.  • Tested (Validating) front end with different set of data. Worked closely with Testing Team to create test cases.    Environment: JavaScript, HTML/HTML5, JQuery, Backbone JS, NodeJS, Handlebars JS, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, LESS, JSON, AJAX, Underscore.js, Lodash, Git, Jira, ALM QC. Sr. Web/UI Developer CEB - Arlington, VA May 2015 to January 2016 Worked on the Volume Recruitment (VR) Project, scope of this project is to develop website for clients to hire or test the employees based on their qualifications.    Responsibilities:  • Created User interface using JavaScript, ECMAScript5, JQuery, HTML5, CSS/CSS3.  • Used Bootstrap Components like dropdowns, Date pickers to develop Responsive App.  • Extensively used CSS Preprocessors SASS and LESS to build a clean CSS instead of static rules.  • Involved in Design discussions and user experience meetings to provide inputs on the interface.  • Created custom UI Component Library framework using JSP Tag files.  • Used AJAX and Java Script for front end validation.  • Designed and developed a number of Ajax based widgets.  • Expert in develop web pages for different devices using RWD and Bootstrap.  • Implemented advanced level of JQuery for a number of pages.  • Worked in SCRUM process attending daily stand up and completing tasks in Sprints.  • Written SQL queries to create and update widgets into Database get accurate number of items in the result from the search engine.  • Involved in the performance testing and performance enhancement activities.    Environment: JavaScript, ECMAScript5, HTML/HTML5, JQuery, AngularJS, Node js, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, JSON, Linux, AJAX and Jira. Web/UI Developer AT&T - Dallas, TX March 2014 to April 2015 Worked on multiple modules under eBiz Project, scope of this project is to develop website for Large scale Business Users to create, view and manage their accounts.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing User interface using JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular Js, HTML5, CSS/CSS3.  • Created CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible on all the major browsers like Safari, Chrome, Firefox and IE.  • Worked on Bootstrap, LESS to develop User Interface with responsive design.  • Extensively involved in Design discussions and user experience meetings to provide inputs on the interface.  • Created several mock up Using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Converted Excel data into XML files using Dreamweaver and Caspio.  • Developed components to fetch the data from the backend using jQuery, AngularJs and AJAX.  • Created custom Directives using Angular Js. Also used ngRouting extensively.  • Developed test cases using Jasmine, Karma, Nodejs.  • Used D3 js to develop Donut charts etc.  • Worked on Cato Compliance issues using tools such as NVDA, Fireice.  • Worked on Adobe tagging to capture the metrics for UI elements based on requirements.  • Implemented and Enhance the code quality using tools like sonar.  • Performed Unit Testing and Integration testing of the application.    Environment: JavaScript, Angular JS, HTML/HTML5, JQuery, CSS, CSS3, Bootstrap, Eclipse, LESS, SASS, JSON, Node JS, D3 Charts, and AJAX. Web/UI Developer EMC2 - South Borough September 2013 to February 2014 EMC2 is a Multinational Company offers Data storage, Information Security and other Products and Services. The scope of this Project is to design Company Internal website.  Responsibilities:  • Worked with Business Users in collection of content -- requests, reviews and controls content including day-to-day operations and maintenance for the assigned web sites.  • Developed the UI interface using JavaScript, JQuery, CSS3 and HTML5.  • Used Java Script for front end validation.  • Created Carousels and compare boxes using advance level of JQuery.  • Performed Design reviews, Code walkthrough and task estimation.  • Used Photoshop for editing images.  • Created hundreds of email template notifications using HTML.  • Cross browser compatibility testing (Firefox, Chrome, Safari and IE)  • Used CMS to design web pages.  • Worked with Testing Team and created test cases and tested.    Environment: JavaScript, HTML, XML, JQuery, CSS, CMS, HTML4/HTML5, and CSS3. Education Master's in engineering University of North Texas - Denton, TX May 2011 to August 2013 Bachelor's in engineering Velagapudi Ramakrishna Siddhartha Engineering College July 2006 to June 2010 Skills CSS (5 years), HTML (5 years), HTML5 (5 years), BOOTSTRAP (5 years), JSON (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Operating Systems Windows, OS X  Web/App. Server Weblogic 8/10  Web-Development HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Angular 6, Prime NG, Node Js, Backbone JS, Handlabars.js, Angular 1.x, HTML4/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Object Oriented JavaScript, JSON, Twitter BootStrap 3/4, LESS, SASS, Jasmine, D3 JS, Grunt, Webpack, Babel, WCAG 2.0 AA standards  Databases: Oracle 8/8i/9i/10, Mongo DB, Microsoft Excel  OOAD: UML  Version Control Systems SVN, Git, Accurev  Other Applications / Tools Eclipse, XMLSPY, CMS, IntelliJ