RPA Developer RPA <span class="hl">Developer</span> RPA Developer - Phoenix Marketing International United States Point, MN • An enthusiastic RPA professional with around 5+ years of IT experience including 2 Years of RPA Process implementation using UiPath, Automation Anywhere and involved in COE (Center of Excellence) & developing software bots.  • Extensively worked on Waterfall model, Agile/Scrum software development methodologies for requirement analysis, definition, prototyping, proof of concept, designing, coding, testing and implementation.  • Feasibility study for RPA implementation by developing Proof of Concept (POC) and validating it with Proof of Value (POV).  • Skilled at evaluating options, generating solutions and well-organized with good time-management skill to complete project on time.  • Stimulated in the process of UiPath Orchestrator for deployment, monitoring, and management of UiPath Robots automation activity.  • Automated text in PDF's using screen scraping to calculate the invoices and store them into a data table using UiPath.  • Hands-on experience on UiPath studio concepts like debugging a work flow, managing the packages, creating variables, arguments, control flows.  • Adapted the business requirements, current and future state process designs and translated them into process in UiPath Studio.  • Designed and configured Automation Anywhere infrastructure for development, test and live environments, which comprises Interactive clients, Resource PCs, Application servers and Database servers.  • Developed automation processes as per the Technical Design Document (TDD) to meet the defined requirements.  • Strong and precise understanding of Automation Anywhere Studio's technological limitations and Clear understanding of Metabots.  • Ability to test the quality & check Automation Anywhere codes built by developers and integrated with VB and VBA macros.  • Involved in automating the business requirement using Automation Anywhere by creating tasks using task recorder and task editors.  • Comprehensive exposure in project delivery management and the Development Life Cycle including design of the workflow Plans.  • Hands-on experience in C#.Net, VB.NET, Python, ASP.Net, and Design patterns with proven abilities in the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Extensive experience in development, design, system analysis, and implementation of web based and client/server application using AngularJS, NodeJS, AJAX, JQuery, JDBC, XML.  • Extensive experience in various UI widgets using JavaScript libraries like AngularJS, NodeJS, BackboneJS, RequireJS, ExtJS, ReactJS etc.  • Good knowledge in Twitter Bootstrap, Metro UI, Mobile Web Development and Responsive Design.  • Experience in making Responsive web pages into web transactions and applications for tablets and mobile devices using Bootstrap and Media queries.  • Experience in developing Single Page Application (SPAs) using various JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS and NodeJS.  • Experience in working on CSS Preprocessors like LESS & SASS along with JavaScript task runners like Grunt.  • Having hands on Experience working on python and few other backend languages.  • Knowledge of NodeJS and frameworks available for it such as Express, Strong Loop, etc.  • Good understanding on Typescript/ES6/ES5 and running on different browsers.  • Designed annotated wireframes by using Axure and Photoshop CS3. Prototyping for the designed wireframes by using Illustrator.  • Hands on experience in developing applications on operating systems like Windows 8/7/XP, Windows Server, UNIX, Linux, and Ubuntu.  • Excellent experience on Quality Control, JIRA, and ALM for tracking the tickets like accepting the tickets/defects, submitting the tickets, reviewing code and closing the tickets etc.  • Responsible for the front-end architecture, pull request reviews, post-merge deployments, and releases.  • Experience of databases that involve writing SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Views, Triggers and Joins. Work Experience RPA Developer Phoenix Marketing International - Tampa, FL January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Computed on Web Applications, Desktop Applications and Windows Applications by using basic, desktop, web recorders and screen scraping & data scraping.  • Experienced in building UI Path Processes and Business Objects for various business systems.  • Performed one of the Screen Scraping methods i.e. Optical character recognition (OCR) (Google OCR / Microsoft OCR engines) to process PDF invoices and JPEG images.  • Involved in automate the business requirement using Automation Anywhere by creating tasks using task recorder and task editors.  • Involved in the centralized infrastructure for maintaining several robots across the organization.  • Proactively designed RPA Tasks as per application and business requirements.  • Experience in managing robot's workloads using Automation Anywhere Work Queues.  • Involved in the designing solutions utilizing RPA (Robotic Process Automation) software, maintain technical responsibility for project delivery as the technical resource on a project.  • Automated tasks using web recorder and Scheduled tasks to repeat as per requirements.  • Extensively worked with command like APP Integration, Manage Windows Control, Object Cloning and Variable Operations.  • Designed, Developed and tested Bot tasks using Automation Anywhere.  • Maintain and the several RPA bots as batch processes on daily basis and ensure quality and high performance to the internal and vendor applications of the organization.  • Built some solutions by utilizing UiPath tool and further maintain technical responsibility for project delivery as the sole technical resource on a project.  • Performed the practical usage of various UiPath Orchestrator functionalities like Bots, Processes, Assets, Jobs, Schedulers, Logging, Recovery Methods and Application Credentials.  • Maintained both Attended and Unattended Robot resources, and provided centralized Robot logs, remote execution, monitoring, scheduling, and work queues using UiPath Orchestrator.  • Accessed data from multiple file formats like .CSV, .PDF, excel sheets, web pages etc., using multiple scraping techniques like full text, Native and OCR.  • Developed REFramework in UiPath for exception handling & used to define states in project.  • Operated various UiPath Activities such as For each, Switch activity, Citrix Screen Scraping for Remote machines, Loops, User prompts, OCR, Key strokes, Error handling, Break, Try Catch.  • Inspected on PDF Processing, Excel Automation, SAP Applications and various web-based Applications Automation.  • Implemented Web Recorder for automating logging and inserting data actions into browser applications using different Input methods such as Send window messages and Simulate.  • Evaluated task migration process from development to production systems through UiPath Orchestrator.  • Interacted with different mail services such as POP3, Outlook and IMAP to get the mail messages into folder.  • Developed workflows for various business activities like HR On-Boarding, Invoices generation and Exceptions Processing.  • Used UiPath selectors to store the attributes of a graphical user interface element and its parents, in the shape of an XML fragment.  • Created and documented test procedures and scenarios for Pre-UAT phases supporting the operational teams during UAT (User Acceptance Testing) and rollout phases.  • Implemented UiPath Orchestrator for deployment, monitoring, and management of UiPath Robots automation activity.  Environment: Automation Anywhere, Visual studio 2015, ASP.NET MVC 4 UiPath 2018, UIPath Studio, UiPath Orchestrator, .NET, VBA, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, SQL Server, Visual Studio 2015, Service Now, CRM. RPA developer Teleflora - Oklahoma, OK, US September 2017 to January 2019 Responsibilities:  • Designing and documenting automated process solutions in accordance with standard design principles and conventions.  • Configuring new automations and objects using core workflow principles that are efficient, well structured, maintainable and easy to understand.  • Involved in the centralized infrastructure for maintaining several robots across the organization.  • Experience in financial domain and knowledge of financial terminology.  • Implemented new reporting techniques and facilitated the presentations to the clients.  • Innovatively integrated the advanced features of automation tools like OCR, Web Recorder for existing robots and improved the performance using Automation Anywhere.  • Maintain and the several RPA bots as batch processes on daily basis and ensure quality and high performance to the internal and vendor applications of the organization.  • Problem solving issues that arise in day to day running of robotic processes and providing timely responses and solutions as required.  • Provided technical training to team members, offshore on Automaton Tools and platform.  • Formulated and executed agile processes for enhancing performance.  • Experience in staging and deploying the automation solution into test and live environments.  • Enhance the bots with additional features as requested by the clients and business analysts.  • Hands on experience in Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JPA, JS  • Involved in system design and development using collections and multithreading for the action classes.  • Experience in programming for generating graphs, data listings and tables using data steps, procedures, SQL and macros.  • Extensive use of PROC SQL to perform queries, join tables.  • Investigated existing SAS code, created query, maintained and defined strategies to improve the efficacy of SAS programs  • Generated the automated exception reports using advanced EMAIL automation.  • Implemented changes in coding and designs using knowledge of VB .NET  • Proactively designed RPA Tasks as per application and business requirements.  • Created HTML navigation menu that is role based menu items changes dynamically, derived from the database in the form of XML.  • Developed and implemented new technical solutions for production applications to interact effectively with users.  • Design, develop, test and automate Extraction Transformation & Loading (ETL) processes using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS 2012).  • Worked with the UI team to design the appropriate icon and display for the screens.  • Pair Programming with the Development team to capture the failing scenarios in order to avoid defects in future and ensure functionality.  • Created reusable automation framework with Meta-Bots and reusable libraries with data externalization for RPA implementation.  • Expertise in analyzing and modifying the test case execution as per requirements also re-use the existing test cases if needed to meet the fast pace environment.  • Provide technical guidance to junior-level technicians assigned to assist the development of User Interface.  • Worked with the UI team to design the appropriate icon and display for the screens.  • Converted DTS packages to SSIS packages, validating the packages, and migrating to SQL Server Integration service    Environment: Automation Anywhere 9.0, SQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, .net, Chrome driver, MS SQL Server, IBM Data Studio, DB Visualizer, VB Script, MS Access. RPA Developer Who is on my Wifi - Oklahoma, OK, US September 2014 to December 2016 Responsibilities:    • Involved in client meeting to gather the requirements and understand the business requirement.  • Performed some of the tasks using VB Scripting.  • Responsible for reviews, delivery of releases and deployment of changes.  • Created Triggers and scheduled tasks.  • Developed and configured automation processes as per the technical design document (TDD) to meet the defined requirements.  • Developed new processes/tasks/objects using core workflow principles that are efficient, well structured, maintainable, and easy to understand.  • Followed best practices in automation and build reusable components.  • Complies with and helps to enforce design and coding standards, policies, and procedures. Ensured documentation is well scripted.  • Understands development methodology and lifecycle trained on Automation Anywhere and/or other RPA tools.  • Used Variable manager to create different variables in AA and BP.  • Used String Compare to eliminate the duplicates from the data.  • Used windows Actions with delay timings to make the view better.  • Worked on spring web flows and UI components using SOFEA.  • Handled exceptions across all the process applications according to the varying needs    Environment: Automation Anywhere 9.0, VB, VBA, ASP.NET, Oracle, XML, HTML, Java Script, CSS, Web Logic, Java 1.6. UI/ WEB Developer Deccan Soft Technologies - IN September 2013 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Created dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, AJAX, Grunt and JSON  • Handled Integration of static web pages with the server data using BackboneJS  • To be responsible for create responsive website using Bootstrap grid system to layout contents that fit different devices including mobile, tablet and desktop  • Involved with all stages of Software Development Life Cycle  • Implemented and Architected, designed a SPA (Single Page Application) in AngularJS which consume JSON from a Spring MVC  • Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Gained Knowledge on Electrode Platform which is a NodeJS/ Web platform built on top of the ReactJS and HapiJS frameworks.  • Maintained page layouts, navigation, presented designs and concepts to the clients and the managements to review.  • Developed Dynamic Single Page Applications in two different projects using ReactJS and Angular 2.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, AutoComplete, AJAX, JSON, AngularJS, and JavaScript, Bootstrap  • Created the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards  • Worked on different cross-browsing capability issue for IE, Chrome, Firefox and Safari  • Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme and layout for his website and implemented it into a final interface design  • Cross platform-working experience with UNIX, Linux variants such as Red Hat & Solaris and Windows  • Developed various customized views using Dojo, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML5 and CSS3  • Created test Cases for Using JUnit and Easy Mock  • Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts  • Interacted with backend developers ensuring the integration of UI with backend logic  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers  • Worked with backend developers ensuring the integration of UI with backend logic  • Involved in daily scrum team meetings & code reviews  • Involved in story planning, create timeline & ensuring on-time delivery of assigned stories  • Maintained clean and understandable code for others to continue working  • Used advanced level of JQUERY, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Ajax, Grunt, JSON, JSP, JIRA, Dojo and GIT Web Developer SAP Labs Pvt. Ltd November 2012 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using JavaScript, jQuery, CSS3, and HTML5.  • Ability to rapidly prototype interface designs in hand-coded validating, standards-compliant, and semantically rich code and be aware of cross-browser compatibility and bugs.  • Thorough understanding of the differences and bugs in various browsers and browser versions.  • Understanding of application development lifecycle methodologies.  • Enhanced and built reusable components across different modules using Custom directives and CSS classes.  • Created Responsive Designs (Mobile/Tablet/Desktop) using HTML5 & CSS3, Bootstrap.  • Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML5 and CSS3.  • Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts. Integrated with back end code for highly interactive AJAX based applications.  • Developed AngularJS functionality in the application to provide two-way binding to the system.  • Used customized services and directives in AngularJS to develop dynamic and responsive Webpages.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Implemented and designed user interface for web-based customer application.  • Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using client-side scripting using JavaScript.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.  • Worked extensively on Spring MVC framework to develop new internal web application.  • Improved outgoing quality through yield improvements and characterization. Also, reduced costs through test time improvements.  • Provided technical assistance for development and maintenance of web pages.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY, AngularJS, AJAX, JSON, XML, ECLIPSE, SVN, Apache, MySQL, Agile. Skills Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, Application server, Git, Html, Javascript, Angular.js, Json, Python, Svn, Xml, Xslt, Ajax, Dhtml, Dreamweaver, Tomcat, Websphere, Db2, Sql server, Oracle Additional Information Technical Skills:    Web Technologies: HTML, HTML5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, Angular.js, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, JSP, and XML, DHTML, XHTML, XSLT, Python, JSP.  Application Servers: IBM WebSphere Application Server Apache Tomcat.  Databases: ORACLE DB2/UDB 9.x/8.x/7.2, SQL Server, MS-Access.  Operating Systems: Windows, Linux, Mac OS  IDE: Eclipse IDE, Microsoft Visual Studio Code, Microsoft Visual Studio, Dreamweaver, Notepad++, Sublime Text Editor.  Debugging tools: Firebug, Chrome Developer toolbar, IE Developer Toolbar.  Version Control Tools: SVN, GIT, CVS.