Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Frederick, MD Work Experience Web Developer Computer Enhancement Systems - Frederick, MD May 2017 to September 2018 Redesigned the company website to follow modern design trends and responsive design.  ? Completed periodical updates to existing business websites managed by the company  using various Content-Management Systems and platforms.  ? Created uniquely designed websites for small businesses including custom contact forms  with ReCAPTCHA checks for security.  ? Conducted an SEO marketing plan increasing the companies visibility on the internet  bringing search result instances to the top 5 positions for highly valuable search  terms relating to services provided.  ? Architected and developed a custom web application solution for a rental property  management company to manage it's residents maintenance request and assign the given  jobs to contractors and partners. This application was written in PHP & MySQL with built in security and integrated directly into their existing WordPress website. Programming Intern Data Management Systems - Frederick, MD June 2016 to May 2017 Performed a cost-benefit analysis of open-source, licensed, and in-house  document-indexing and search software solutions.  ? Designed and developed a GUI based desktop search application for local and network  storage locations, cross compatible with Windows, Linux, and macOS, utilizing the waterfall software development methodology.  ? Maintained the source-code and end-user documentation for the application. Education High School Diploma Governor Thomas Johnson High School - Frederick, MD May 2017 Skills Adobe photoshop (1 year), Css (1 year), Front end (1 year), Mysql (1 year), Php (1 year) Certifications/Licenses Security+ January 2017 CCNA May 2016 CCENT May 2016 A+ Certified March 2015 Additional Information SKILLS  Object-Oriented Programming development. (PHP, MySQL, Python, JavaScript)    Front-End and UI design. (HTML, CSS, Adobe Photoshop/Illustrator)