Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - Dutch Valley Food Distributors, Inc Hamburg, PA Work Experience Web Developer Dutch Valley Food Distributors, Inc November 2018 to Present Write SQL Stored Procedures to gather information and convert to JSON using JSON.NET and VB.NET MVC  ? Update company sites as needs arise for new or improved functionality  ? Test all changes made  ? Commit changes using SourceTree with Git repositories Programmer/Analyst Brenntag North America - Reading, PA March 2016 to May 2018 2 years experience with IBM RPG programming and DB2 SQL  ? Responsible for data transfers during company acquisitions  ? Designed and coded proprietary software for company use  ? Designed a new format for web-based software outside the usual constraints  ? Wrote SQL queries for data transfers  ? Debugged system issues and user requests  ? Responsible for testing all changes made in software by myself and others when multiple developers were on the same code Web Developer Reading Eagle Company - Reading, PA February 2010 to October 2015 Developed a system which takes XML and outputs a text file for the printed newspaper  ? Developed and maintained multiple contact us pages / informational request pages  ? Developed multiple professional profile entry sites for various businesses and business professionals on an individual level. Their profiles would then be displayed on our website, or in a printed pull-out section of our newspaper  ? Have also worked with data encryption  ? Created an image upload site for a client. They use this so that their clients can upload their projects into one location.  ? Have experience with HTML, VB.Net / ASP.Net, SQL Server 2008 and Microsoft Visual Studio 2005 / 2008 / 2010 and Notepad ++  ? Have some knowledge with C#.Net and JavaScript, both self-taught  ? Designed databases, created tables and stored procedures  ? Using SQL and VB.Net, I have created reporting systems for the profile entry sites I created  ? Implemented Edit and Delete functionality using Data Grid and Grid Views for administrative purposes  ? Have 4 years of experience using Visual SourceSafe, 1 year using Git for source control  ? Have experience with both front-end and back-end development, from project start to finish, including testing of code Education Associate in Specialized Technology Degree in Internet Network Engineering Berks Technical Institute - Wyomissing, PA July 2009 Skills Front End, Javascript, Bootstrap, HTML5, Jquery, Vb.Net (7 years), C# (Less than 1 year), MVC (Less than 1 year)