Web Consultant <span class="hl">Web</span> Consultant Web Consultant - The Creative Crowe, LLC Richmond, VA Summary:  I am a Web Developer with strong commitment to collaboration and solutions-oriented problem-solving. I have over ten years of experience as a freelance web developer, designer and project manager. I love a good technical challenge and I am looking for a team that will benefit from my experience. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Consultant The Creative Crowe, LLC - Richmond, VA May 2011 to Present • Provided outstanding consultation services to new and long-standing customers by attending closely to concerns and developing solutions.  • Resolved conflicts and negotiated agreements between parties in order to reach win-win solutions to disagreements and clarify misunderstandings.  • Oversaw various WordPress projects from conceptualization to completion.  • Successfully implemented online capabilities that generated over $150,000 for one non-profit client. Freelance Web Developer Self-Employed - Richmond, VA January 2010 to August 2013 • Used WordPress to build dynamic websites based on sketches and designs provided by Samuel Little Graphic Design, LLC.  • Handled special web projects designed by Samuel that consisted of resolving various types of challenges clients had with their sites.  • Determined project technical needs and coordinated specifications and requirements.  • Provided website and integrated solutions to complement business operations including theme and plugin recommendations that provided functionality - manage donations, create lead magnets, pop-ups for newsletter sign up etc. Education Internet Application Development - Certificatation in Web Development Technologies J Sargeant Reynolds Community College - Richmond, VA September 2011 to May 2013 Skills Application development, Content management (10+ years), Html (10+ years), Javascript (7 years), Php (3 years), Front End (10+ years), Angularjs (1 year), Angular (3 years), HTML5 (7 years), Wordpress (10+ years), Bootstrap (5 years), Jquery (8 years) Links https://thecreativecrowe.com Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: E-5 March 1988 to March 1992 • Served on active duty for four years and then active reserves for another four as an electroic warfare specialist and a Korean linguist.   • Honorably discharged after completing my contract both times. Commendations: • Twice awarded Army Achievement Medal  • National Defense Ribbon  • Expert Marksman  • Driver's Badge  • Two overseas Tour Ribbons Certifications/Licenses Internet Application Development Certification September 2013 to Present This is a two year program I completed through J Sargent Reynolds Community College after freelancing for a couple of years doing development work for a Samuel Little Graphic Design.  It filled in a Additional Information Skills  • Customer-oriented Project management and Conflict resolution  • HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, Angular, Node, npm  • Excellent problem solving skills and lifelong learner.    • Landing page development  • Databases - MySQL, SQL  • Content management systems - Word Press  • Adobe Creative Suite -Photoshop, Illustrator, Premiere, After Effects