Business Intelligence Developer Business Intelligence <span class="hl">Developer</span> Miami, FL Programmer/ Developer (Bachelor of Science: Information Technology) offering strong academic background with six years of experience based on a combination of tools and technologies. Knowledgeable in a range of computer systems, languages and tools. Understanding of all phases of the software development life-cycle, with a strong working knowledge of algorithms and data structures. Able to quickly learn and master new technology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Business Intelligence Developer Quirch Foods - Miami, FL March 2018 to Present • Creating BI excel files for end users (Dashboards, Pivot tables, Data Models, DAX, connection strings).  • Creating reports using SSRS (trends, summaries, KPI, subscriptions).  • Creating ETL process using SSIS (staging tables).  • Modifying existing Data Warehouse using SSAS (roles, dimensions, facts, measures).  • Creating dashboards using PowerBI (desktop and mobile).  • Creating stored procedures, views, tables, indexes, and jobs to manage the BI tools mentioned previously. MySQL Developer, Data Processor MSP Recovery - Miami, FL February 2016 to March 2018 ? Work with big data files in different formats.   ? Identify, analyze, and interpret trends or patterns in complex data sets.  ? Extracting, Transforming and Loading (ETL) of data using scripts.  ? Setting up ad-hoc queries with MySQL.  ? Creating new scripts (Perl) based on existing ones.  ? Teamdesk (CRM) Management. Creating reports.  ? Making dashboards, reports and BI analysis using Tableau Web Developer Freelancer - Miami, FL December 2015 to January 2016 Fixing and finishing Web Application that was started by a different Developer (dadedoors.dsaiz.com).   • Enhancing and adding new functionalities at Back-Office of Prestashop with PHP.  • Modifying some views at Front-End using jQuery, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS and Smarty. Web Developer Palacio Central de la Computacion, La Habana, Cuba - Cuba, LA September 2013 to July 2015 Creating and developing the first official social network of Cuba (“La Tendedera”). Manage all phases of application design, from coding and prototyping through system testing, integration and deployment.   • Served as a member of developer team, developing in particular image module.  • Back-End development using PHP, Yii framework (v1) and serializing data in XML.  • Front-End development with Bootstrap, javascript, jQuery, Ajax. Web Developer Freelancer, JGR Trading Corporation - Cuba, LA February 2014 to January 2015 Creating a Web Application: Load Management System (JGR Trading Corporation- Panamanian Company).  • Design and implementation of all database structure (MySQL).  • Development of data management using Yii framework (v1) and generating reports with mPDF. Education Bachelor in Computer Science POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITY JOSÉ ANTONIO ECHEVERRÍA (CUJAE) - Cuba, LA 2007 to 2013 Skills • Web Development • Software Development • Database Design • Solutions Deployment • MVC • OOP • OOAD & RAD • UML • GUI Design • Requirements Definition • Coding & Scripting • Debugging & Troubleshooting • Testing & Documentation • Tableau • DBA Programming: PHP, Java, C#, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, MySQL, XML, XPDL,Yii Framework, Bootstrap, jQuery (4 years), Business Intelligence, BI (2 years), SSRS (2 years), Ssis (1 year), Tableau (1 year), Powerbi, Data Warehouse Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/arturo-gonzalez-7ab8b985 Certifications/Licenses Tableau 9 For Data Science Present Course number UC-9BTQ26TT