Web/UI Developer <span class="hl">Web</span>/UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web/UI Developer - Taistech(4wheeldrive/4wheelparts) Austin, TX • Over 7+years of experience as a Front-End UI Developer in development, system testing, debugging, implementation and maintenance of software applications.  • Extensive experience in implementing well-architected, well-documented, high-quality code at a fast pace for the web.  • Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible.  • Worked with cutting edge front-end technologies/framework and libraries like JQuery, OO JavaScript, JSON, DOM, CSS, SASS, SCSS, LESS, AJAX, Web Services, Bootstrap and AngularJS, Grunt, Gulp, Bower.  • Professional understanding of System development life cycle (SDLC) as well as various phases such as Analysis Design, Development and Testing.  • Experience on working with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS.  • Hands on JavaScript frame work (Angular JS) to augment browser based applications with MVC capability.  • Used Angular JS framework to bind HTML (views) to JavaScript objects (models).  • Proficient in developing web page quickly and effectively using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery and also experience in making webpage cross browser compatible.  • Participation in Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC) preparing Requirement Specification documents, design documents, Test cases and Analysis, User Training documents and Technical Help documents.  • Experienced in using Subversion (SVN), GitHub to maintain current and historical versions of files such as source code, web pages, and documentation.  • Experienced in using Front End editors like Espresso, Text Mate, Sublime Text2 and Microsoft Expression Web.  • Extensive experience in creating style guides, best practices and setting UI standards for enterprise/consumer applications.  • Well experienced in using version control systems subversion (SVN), GIT and team Foundation Server (TFS).  • Strong experience in writing and updating the technical documents on daily basis with the changes made to the existing environment on daily basis.  • Participated in daily Scrum sessions and grooming session in AGILE based development environment.  • Experience with Browser testing, knowledge of cross-browser/cross- platform compatibility.  • Profound ability to work independently and within a team.  • Efficient at meeting deadlines, working under pressure and managing multiple tasks simultaneously.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features.  • Excellent analytical, logical and programming skills, Self-Motivated, Self-Starter, and Team Player, can work with minimal supervision. Effective Communication, Organizational and Time management skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web/UI Developer Taistech(4wheeldrive/4wheelparts) - Dallas, TX May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Redesigned and revamped the UI screens for the E-commerce site Trans American Auto Parts.  • Developed the web page quickly and effectively using jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Responsive Web Design(RWD), Bootstrap and used Sleek for the carousel implementation in the application.  • Analyze system and functional requirements to determine feasibility.  • Using Ajax and Json to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on fly also establishing Oracle database connection for dynamic content. on web pages.  • Used various bootstrap components like accordion, date picker, time picker, alert, buttons etc.  • Involving all the stages of Software Development Life Cycle like Application Design, Development, Debugging and testing the applications.  • Created screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • Used JIRA software to plan, track and release.  • Implemented SASS for all the CSS files.  • Involved in Unit Testing of application using Karma that your application works on all browsers you need to support.  • Designed and developed the application using Agile Scrum methodology by breaking down the project to several sprints.  • Gained knowledge and experience working on the e-commerce based application.  • Worked closely with back-end developers to find ways to push the limits of existing Web technology in service of creating the best possible user experience.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.  • Using tools like GIT for version controlling, chrome developer tools for Debugging and also Jenkins for deploying the code to different environments.  • Performed Client side validation using JavaScript.  • Involving successful integration and execution of several batch processes to form the back-end for the Application and delivering a complete front-end application.  • Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  • Used Bootstrap for mobile responsive web design.  • Worked on developing application in latest browsers like Fire fox, IE, safari and chrome.  • Provided a brand able solution for all application so that header and footer are the same across the application.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, XML, Bootstrap, AJAX, Adobe Flash, Sleek, Dreamweaver, agile, sublime, cyber duck, LESS/SASS, SQL, Oracle, Windows. Web/UI Developer iHeart Media Inc - San Antonio, TX December 2016 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Maintained web content for Enterprise Copy portal of iHeart Media.  • Experience with all phases of SDLC in the Waterfall model and Agile (SCRUM) methodologies.  • Developed a new web application utilizing HTML5, Angular JS, Kendo UI, CSS, and Bootstrap which provides data visualization to users.  • Practiced Agile Methodology in order to review progress of project in monthly sprints.  • Involved in Agile/ full software development lifecycle. Designing, coding, testing, debugging and support.  • Modified the UI screens created by web designer using HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.  • Implemented grid-layouts using Kendo UI.  • Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) for version control.  • Used C# .Net to implement business logic.  • Interact with the managers, and business users for understanding the business requirements,  • Discussion on the project status, and project related documentations for Magic Enhancements.  • Responsible for gathering the requirements related to all front-end development and developing the screens as per the client guidelines.  • Participate in daily status meetings to update the status and task prioritization  • Gather Business requirements & Analysis of complex process/functionalities where more business user interaction is required.  • Responsible for deploying the application on the application server in the test environment and initiate the process of user acceptance testing. It includes fixing of bugs and fixing technical errors that may come up during this phase.  • Responsible for making sure the application performance is met, as per the Client guidelines.  • Coordinating with peers during integration testing  • Setting up the system environment for the production environment which includes making programmatic changes in the application to make it up and running in a different application server in the production environment.  • Resolving critical tickets to ensure business continuity and avoid revenue loss.  • Responsible for fixing all the issues and bugs that may come up during the phase of production.  • This may include helping the actual end user in understanding the application and setting up the system environment for them to make the application up and running.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery, agile, C#, Kendo UI, Angular JS, Windows, Experience with all phases of SDLC in the Waterfall model and Agile (SCRUM) methodologies, Web Services, TFS, Visual Studio. Web/UI Developer Sprint - Reston, VA May 2016 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for all the user experience portions of the Sprint's customer facing online shop experience and self-care applications.  • Responsible for developing, bug fixes and new features for a large-scale e-commerce web application.  • Worked on fast paced agile environment. Attended daily stand up meetings and involved in the spring planning.  • Gained knowledge and understanding of Typescript and RXJS.  • Worked on Angular 2.0 with extensive knowledge on the latest ECMA6 features and Best Practices.  • Worked with Angular JS Forms, Validations, Modules, Factory Services, DOM, Events, Expressions, Directives, Controllers, filters, Http Request.  • Created custom directives for re-usable components.  • Wrote unit-tests for all Angular components using Karma/Jasmine.  • Created a responsive web application integrating Twitter Bootstrap with AngularJS and media queries.  • Worked with the team of architects to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features.  • Gained Exposure to content management systems such as Adobe Experience Manager.  • Discussed various ideas/suggestions for the ongoing websites regarding the page layout and creative design.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, Bootstrap, LESS/SASS, Angular JS, typescript, RXJS, Node JS, XML, Just, Gulp, Visual Studio code. Web/UI Developer Accenture - Austin, TX August 2015 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Analysis, System study and designing of the project.  • Developing webpages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS Bootstrap, JSP and JSON.  • Experience in using Bootstrap which can easily manipulate modal windows alerts, tooltips, scroll spy, pop over, button, type head, etc.  • Used various bootstrap components like accordion, date picker, time picker, alert, buttons, modal etc.  • Experience in using ng-grid for rendering rows and columns.  • Experience in using rest web services Apache CXF and also used to get Images, cached information from database.  • Experience in using GIT for pulling and committing the developed content from/to the GIT repository.  • Good experience of debugging JavaScript, CSS3 and HTML5 code.  • Sound Understanding and good Experience with genogram and timeline using Think Map.  • Worked on Angular of UI and Life Ray portlet.  • Defined new validations through Angular.js for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • Had an experience working on agile methodology and also trained.  • Used Grunt for building the project.  • Experience working on IBM WebSphere Portal and WebSphere Application Server environments.  • Designed applications that execute on various browsers such as Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome, and Opera using various debugging tools like Firebugs/IE Developer Tools.  • Highly Curious about new front-end development technologies and thoroughly mastering them with a keen awareness of new industry developments and the evolution of programming solutions.  • Involved in Understanding functional specifications and developing creative solutions to meet business requirements.  • Follow up with the development team on the improvements, integration and further enhancements in the website.  • To release the enhancements within the specified timeline communicated.    Environment: HTML4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, JSP, JQuery, Angular.js, XML, SQL, PL/SQL, agile, Windows, GIT, Life Ray Ide Eclipse, Life Ray Portlet, REST Web Services, IBM WebSphere Portal, WebSphere application server, maven tool. Web/UI Developer Liberty Mutual - Richardson, TX October 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  • Involved in web designing using HTML 4/5, XHTML, CSS 2/3, JavaScript and extensively used Table Less Design in CSS for positioning.  • Developed page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management review.  • Used jQuery to make the HTML, DHTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Frameworks  • Enhancement of existing application utilizing JSP, Created HTML navigation menu that is role based menu items changes dynamically, derived from the database in the form of XML.  • Extensively worked with making calls to APIs to fetch the data from the backend as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation.  • Co-ordinate with QA for testing, Production releases, Application deployment and integration.  • Provided production level code to the engineering team for product development, including cross-browser support, CSS optimization.    Environment: HTML4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, JQuery, DHTML, MVC, DOM, JSON, AJAX, Apache Axis, SOAP, XML, Oracle, Windows. Web/UI Developer Rolls Royce - Irving, TX July 2011 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements and Analysis Understanding the requirements of the client and the flow of the application as well as the application Framework. Web/UI Developer First Niagara Bank - Buffalo, NY February 2010 to June 2011 Place: Buffalo, NY.  Role: Web/UI Developer    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Software Development Life Cycle phases like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and estimating the time-lines for the project.  • Developed the functionality for communicating between the modules mostly involved in VIEW and CONTOLLER section of MVC pattern for CMS project, it includes HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX which were used for UI development.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Involved in developing XML, HTML, and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Maintain Cross Browser compatibility & implement Responsive Design custom media queries, etc.  • Worked on prototypes for Responsive design.  • Created and tested scripts using JQuery on various browsers Chrome, Firefox, Opera, Safari, IE.  • Used XML Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  • Coded pages with best Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome.    Environment: Java Script, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, DOM, DHTML, XHTML, XML, SQL Server and Windows XP. Education Bachelor's Skills Ajax (5 years), JavaScript. (5 years), jQuery (5 years), Json (3 years), XML (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, DHTML, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, Apache  JavaScript Libraries Angular.js  IDE's and Tools Eclipse IDE, NetBeans, Dreamweaver, Firebug, Developer Tools, JSfiddle, Web Strom, Sublime Text, Visual Studio 2012,2013.  Development Tools Adobe Photoshop CS5, Google Ad Words  Publishing Tools Adobe PageMaker, MS Office  Wire Frame Tools (wire frame) Adobe Illustrator CS3(basic idea on wire frame and visual design)  Debugging Tools Firebug, Bugzilla, (internet explorer)  Databases SQL 2000/2005    Operating Systems Windows XP/Vista/7/8, MAC OS X