Full Stack Web Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Web Developer Taunton, MA Excited to continue expanding my knowledge of relevant technologies. Great at meeting deadlines and managing multiple projects at once. Quick learner and adaptable. Work Experience Full Stack Web Developer Pensacola Christian College - Pensacola, FL May 2016 to July 2019 • Created and maintained changes for several websites primarily focusing on the student portal (system admin)  • Created and maintained changes to improve efficiency for internal websites used for administrative purposes  • Gathered necessary requirements for new systems and modifications to existing systems  • Planned and designed database structure and web pages  • Created and updated documentation and flowcharts  • Coded the website changes using ASP.NET/C#  • Implemented sleek UX designs by utilizing Javascript, JQuery, and AJAX  • Modified and created new database structures using Oracle SQL  • Wrote PL/SQL code to manage the data interaction between website and database  • Manually tested the web page on all main browsers  • Wrote unit tests for PL/SQL using in-house regression tester  • Converted paper forms to online web forms and associated pages for administration to process them  • Created a wide variety of systems and necessary administrative pages including but not limited to:  • Several nominations and elections system  • Notification system for quickly reporting outages and closures to students, staff, and faculty  • Points system to track competitions between collegians  • Manage student vacation and change requests for on-campus work  • Appointment scheduling for interaction between students and Student Life  • Vehicle registration and notification system Technician Spectra Systems Corporation - Providence, RI October 2013 to January 2016 • Assembled machine components for bank note authentication systems.  • Aligned lasers.  • Performed maintenance on existing systems.  • Traveled extensively to perform troubleshooting, calibration, and information gathering.  • Wrote Excel macros to track information, speed up file management, and compile statistics.  • Trained new employees on process and procedures.  • Wrote several assembly procedures. Education B.S in Computer Science & Software Engineering Pensacola Christian College - Pensacola, FL May 2013 Skills Database, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Ajax, Asp, Css, Asp.net, C#, Html, Javascript, Php, jquery, Version control Additional Information Skills  Javascript JQuery AJAX  ASP.NET C# PL/SQL  Oracle Database Mercurial Version Control HTML/CSS  PHP