Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Austin, TX I am a talented, Software Developer known to stand out for my diligence and persistence toward critical thinking, problem- solving and embracing unique challenges. I have the ability to adapt to even the most rigorous culture and can readily learn the rules of engagement required in order to exhibit long-term success. As a self-starter that thrives in a team environment, I can lead and follow according to the need at hand, a creative problem-solver who works hard, loves a challenge and overcomes obstacles. I have a natural ability to work independently while staying on schedule and meeting exceeding goals under pressure and against tight deadlines. I am a results-driven achiever and effective team leader. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Emory University - Atlanta, GA July 2016 to September 2018 Development of Dr. Clifford's mHealth projects  - App Dev: Perinatal Monitor - an android application that assists  midwives to aid pregnant women in Guatemala. Patient data & ultrasounds are recorded and backed up via microSD & AWS S3, sending out any complication alarms to local and stateside through SMS/MMS  - Front-end: AAMI - a lightweight waveform and annotation viewer and editor which runs D3 within any modern web browser and does not require installation on the user's computer, tablet, or phone retrieving data via AWS. Web Developer Morehouse School of Medicine - Atlanta, GA August 2016 to November 2016 As a partnership with Dr. Clifford between Emory, Morehouse, and Ga State, I worked on an additional project under Dr. Taylor.  - Reconstruction of Dr. Taylor's Cardiovascular Research Institute  website Global Logistics Manager Premier North America Inc - Norcross, GA May 2013 to February 2016 Web department sales & Marketing PR order handling. I was the sole party responsible for processing, logging, and filing sales orders, manifesting all orders, and preparing orders to be shipped to the customers of interest. With my knowledge of our program SAP, I was responsible for updating inventory and verifying all orders for accuracy. It was my duty to investigate and resolve all customer order claims. Among these tasks, I also assisted with online marketing campaigns and I improved customer satisfaction and reviews. Skills Android (2 years), jQuery, Javascript, Git, CSS, HTML 5, MySQL, Java (3 years) Links https://reproductive-health-journal.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12978-%20018-0554-z