Senior Web Developer Senior <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer Santa Claus, IN I have served as a software engineer for various companies, where I have been repeatedly recognized for developing innovative solutions for large scale software and systems.  I am responsible for full life cycle development of next-generation software, from initial requirement gathering to design, coding, testing, documentation and implementation.  I always enjoys taking on new challenges and can easily adapt to unfamiliar frameworks or technologies. Work Experience Senior Web Developer US Mobile December 2017 to June 2018 Responsible for building micro-services and UI components, designing  React  appealing websites and interacting on a daily basis with graphic designers, clients and marketers.  Python/Django  • Developed REST APIs and micro-services.•  Image cropping  • Build components and reusable code for UI.•  • Writing cross-browser compliant XHTML, CSS & JavaScript.•  Maintaining data integrity • Developing websites that have a consistent feel and look throughout all  web properties.•  Building functionality • Identifying and correcting software deficiencies.•  • Configured CI/CD using go-pipeline•  Mobile applications Senior Developer Treverity December 2015 to October 2017 Worked as team lead, reviewing other team member's work and carrying out ad- hoc tasks as requested by the Project Manager.  • Created high-performance, reusable code for the UI.  • Design layout for representation of data.  • Configured Continues Integration and Deployment for Web Application.  • Participated in brainstorming sessions to come up with ideas.  • Documented software and technical specifications.   • Worked on multiple projects simultaneously to a high standard.  • Used LESS/SASS stylesheets and configured webpack configuration. Senior Developer Gravel Data Road Labs August 2014 to June 2015 Worked senior-level developer who carried out high quality product.    • Configured and scaled all our clients' hosting infrastructure based on Linux  machines, managing all the required redundancy, high availability, and backup  strategies.  • Designed and Deployed security platform  • Designed new encryption algorithm.  • Enhanced encryption level  • Developed both iOS & Android client version Senior Developer ASoft August 2008 to January 2014 Started as intern and became senior-level developer in 5 years.    • Built driver software that controls external devices from Windows and Linux.  • Worked in team to build desktop application for Windows and MacOS. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Purdue University 2002 to 2007 Skills Software Development (10+ years), Devops, Ruby on Rails (7 years), Ruby (7 years), Javascript (10+ years), Swift (3 years), Python (4 years), PHP, Angular, HTML, HTML5, Jquery Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/erikilyin/