Senior Web UI Developer Senior <span class="hl">Web</span> UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Web UI Developer - Fiserv Atlanta, GA • 9+ years of extensive Experience as Front-End UI Developer in designing User Interface applications and professional web applications using HTML (4/5), CSS (2/3), JavaScript, TypeScript, Angular (2), Node.js, Express JS, jQuery, AJAX, XML, Bootstrap, JSON, Java/J2EE  • Build prototype for various required services such as Scheduling, Logging and Notification Service using third party Node.js based JavaScript library.  • Experience in managing lifecycle of MongoDB database including database sizing, deployment automation, monitoring and tuning.  • Professional understanding of Software development life cycle (SDLC) as well as various phases such as Analysis, Design, Development and Testing.  • Worked extensively on TypeScript frameworks like Angular 2, Node.js and React.js.  • Expert in creating Restful and SOAP web services.  • Experienced in client-side design and validation using HTML and TypeScript.  • Experience in setting up the AngularJS frameworks.  • Used Angular2 by consuming Restful web services.  • Experience in integrating the dynamic Webpages using Angular 2 and JQuery.  • Experience working with Node.js to setup Web API's.  • Watched changes in project with gulp task runner, with installation of latest versions of ES6 which will run on Node.js environment.  • Excellent knowledge on Angular 2 components like controllers, directives, factory and service resources, routing, dependency injection, 2-way data binding, filters and events.  • Experience in utilizing Angular UI-bootstrap and CSS3.  • Used Angular 2 controllers in various pages of the application.  • Worked on application level code to perform client-side validation using JQuery and Angular 2.  • Implemented logic using AngularJS, Typescript, and ECMAScript 6.  • Experienced in building cross browser compatibility web applications like Chrome, Safari, Firefox, Internet Explorer and Opera using HTML5 and CSS3(SASS/LESS).  • Involved in several web application development projects that required Responsive Web Design Using Twitter Bootstrap.  • Expertise with Spring, Hibernate, and Struts application frameworks.  • Worked on Eclipse, SublimeText, Webstorm and Notepad++.  • Good Web Application debugging skills using Chrome Developers Tool, Bugzilla and Firebug.  • Good knowledge of using JavaScript testing frameworks like Jasmine, Karma, JUnit and QUnit.  • Expertise in using Mixins in SASS and Loops in LESS.  • Expertise using the Nested Loops in SASS.  • Excellent knowledge in the development of User Experience web and mobile based applications.  • Installing and Configuring PostgreSQL from source or packages on Linux machines.  • Having dynamic and versatile experience for mobile application development and analyzing current market trends mainly focused on best UI experience in development.  • Coordinating with SharePoint development team and managing services on mobile platforms with RESTFUL/ SOAP APIs.  • Worked as a Team player for iPhone, and web development apps using HTML5.  • Experienced in developing event driven applications using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Expert in automating the build processes using ANT, MAVEN and Gulp.  • Configuration and Version control management using CVS, SVN and GIT.  • Experience in working with data visualization tools like D3.JS  • Detailed understanding of DOM manipulations and DOM functions.  • Designed the web layouts using Adobe Photoshop.  • Well versed W3C standards along with experience in Web 2.0 and related sources.  • Incorporated the table less design methodology using CSS3 that follows W3C standards.  • Worked in GitHub/ stash repository, SVN version control for code store and manipulations  • Experienced with source tree interface to pull/ push/ commit code. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Web UI Developer Fiserv - Alpharetta, GA August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Implemented React-Router to turn the application into Single Page Application.  • Used Node JS to run Web pack tasks and help build the project.  • Also maintained states in the stores and dispatched the actions using redux.  • Responsible for creating web-based applications using React JS, Node.js, and Redux workflow  • Used ES6 features and Typescript for strongly typed coding  • Built single page application with modules, reusable components, forms using React JS  • Setup production dependencies for application are Redux JS, Webpack, Grunt, Babel, Polyfill, Node JS, SAAS framework  • Worked upon the dashboard for the project which contained a variety of charts and draggable components using D3, React JS.  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Redux for SPA development.  • Involved in responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React.js.  • Developed client-side Interface using React JS.  • Used React-Router to turn the application into Single Page Application  • Used ReactJS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Building stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Developed the Drag and Drop functionality using React-Dragabble.  • Participated in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Involved in building stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Worked with backend engineers to optimize existing API calls to create efficiencies by deprecating unneeded API calls.  • Utilized React for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app that searched projects via the GitHub API through keywords.  • Used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.    Environment: React JS, Redux, Flux, HTML5, CSS3, ES6, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, JavaScript. Senior Web UI Developer Walgreens - Chicago, IL October 2016 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing use cases with the help of business analyst team and developed technical requirement documents. Helped the client project management team to identify the suitable technology and tools required for the projects.  • Developed Web Application using Angular 2, UI Bootstrap3, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and SASS. The project is built upon the Single Page Application criteria.  • Developed Angular 2 components that could be reused in various parts of the application and form field validation.  • Developed various AJAX controls and widgets to build a rich User Interface for the application.  • Worked with Angular 2 component based Redux architecture for authoring complex decorators, services, components, and pipes, working with animations, routing.  • Worked on Angular 2 by consuming Restful web services & Used Angular 2 forms like Template Driven forms and Modern Driven (Reactive) forms to perform form validations both on server and client side.  • Implemented Angular 2 services to connect the web application to back-end APIs to POST/GET the data used in the application.  • Implemented Angular Router to enable navigation from one view to the next as agent performs application tasks.  • Created TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using component-based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Created custom directives in Angular 2 for reusable components.  • Utilized Observables for http error handling with catch and throw RxJS operators.  • Worked on Angular 2 concepts such as two-way binding, *ngif and *ngFor structural directives, property binding, services, dependency injection, routing.  • Implemented authentication system using JWT (JSON Web Tokens), Local Storage on the client side and OAuth2, Redis (Session Store) on the server side.  • Implemented UX standards and best practices in web application user interface for web, desktop, mobile and tablet browsers.  • Developed server-side application using NodeJS with Express framework that handles the HTTP requests, performs all the CRUD operations such as get, post, put and delete.  • Developed Web API using NodeJS and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  • Employed Express JS to set up middle-wares to respond to HTTP requests.  • Worked with BOWER components to install all front-end packages and their dependencies.  • Used Grunt to create UI builds and run UI tasks like compiling less files to generate a CSS file  • Extensively used JavaScript testing tool Jasmine for unit testing and used JIRA for project tracking and bug tracking.  • Debugged the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM Functions.    Environment: HTML4/5, CSS3/2, Angular 2, Bootstrap3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, NodeJS, Jasmine, JIRA, Grunt, WebStorm and GIT. web Developer Technik Inc - Arlington, VA June 2014 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed websites using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Google Maps API (JavaScript Library), XML and Ajax.  • Worked extensively on rectangular and handled REST API Restful resources.  • Worked on custom directives, services and filters in AngularJS as per the functional requirements.  • Worked on JSP's in page and JSON structure for the content coming from the backend.  • Made AJAX calls using backbone.js for getting the data and parsing it for showing on the web page.  • Build prototype for various required services such as Scheduling, Logging and Notification Service using third party Node.js based JavaScript library.  • Used JQuery and Bootstrap plugins for site maintenance.  • Worked with team in making the website mobile responsive using media queries and flexible grid layouts.  • Bug fixes for existing care source website and also software enhancement.  • Used JQuery for creating various widgets, data manipulation, data traversing, form validations, create the content on the fly depend on the user request, implementing Ajax features for the application.  • Web app maintenance including updating the content and solving bug report.  • Maintenance of company homepage by optimizing functions that used JQuery, using alternative Bootstrap layout and solving bug reports  • Used Node.js express frameworks to setup middleware to respond to HTTP requests.  • Pair programming with my teammates and using Jasmine framework to test my application.  • Designed and developed the application presentation layer using JSTL.  • Prepared Junit test cases and executed the test cases using Junit in eclipse.  • Used SVN as a code repository and for code management.  • Worked on AGILE methodology.  • JQuery library and AngularJS has been used for creation of powerful dynamic Web Pages and web applications by using its advanced and cross browser functionality.    Environment: AngularJS, Rectangular, HTML4, CSS, AJAX, JOSN, XML, JQuery, JSTL, Jasmine, Google Maps API, SVN, WebStorm, eclipse, bootstrap. Software Engineer PNC Financial Group - Bowling Green, OH April 2010 to January 2012 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for understanding requirements along with technical Architect and business analyst.  • Responsible for understanding requirements along with technical Architect and business analyst.  • Responsible for understanding the existing system and architecture of the new system.  • Involved in developing prototype screens for the new system and presenting them to the direct users of our system.  • Responsible for writing environment setup guide for our new system.  • Actively participated in daily scrum meetings and responsible for the reporting weekly work status of all team members to the manager.  • Responsible for writing code for interaction with Server.  • Responsible for understanding the existing system and architecture of the new system.  • Involved in developing prototype screens for the new system and presenting them to the direct users of our system.    Environment: Html, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and kendo ui. Education UW Health - Madison, WI February 2012 to May 2014 Bachelor's Skills Ajax (4 years), Bootstrap (3 years), Javascript. (6 years), jquery (6 years), Json (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  • Web Technologies: HTML4/ HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Angular.js, Node.js, Express.js, React.js, Ajax, JSON, Angular 2, TypeScript, Angular CLI, AZURE Cloud Services  • IDE s: Eclipse, Visual Studio Code, Notepad++, WebStorm, Sublime.  • Debugging tools: Firebug, Chrome Developer Tools.  • Operating systems: Linux - Ubuntu, Mac OS, Windows.  • Servers: Apache Tomcat, JBOSS, WebSphere, WebLogic.  • Version Control: GIT, SVN.  • Build Tools: Jenkins  • Database: SQL Server, MYSQL, MongoDB.  • Frond End Tools: CorelDraw, Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop CS5, Illustrator  • Programming Languages: C, C++, JAVA, J2EE