Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - Round Sky Las Vegas, NV Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Round Sky - Las Vegas, NV March 2019 to Present • 90% LAMP stack  • 10% Front-end HTML, CSS, Javascript, etc  • Complex PHP including MVC/OOP, loops, nesting, class structure  • Complex MySQL including, joins, indexing, structure, etc  • Maintenance of production environments and fixing old code Freelance November 2014 to Present • Side projects for friends, family, and employers including websites.  • Front-end AJAX based API calls and data handling.  • PHP based tools.  • GUI formation.  • JQuery effects.  • Custom HTML and CSS.  • Website formation without use of a CMS.  • Responsive design.  • SEO  • Custom computer builds, network setup and hardware support. Web Developer Trigg Laboratories - Las Vegas, NV July 2018 to February 2019 • Management of a virtual CentOS system with WHM/CPanel and multiple websites  • Management of Wordpress and Magento CMS's  • Structure, layout, design, and code of custom webpages and functions using LAMP, HTML, CSS, and Javascript  • Custom API's for data as well as image sources for a constantly changing environment  • IT work onsite (Networking, Office365, Virus/Spyware/Malware removal, Refresh, etc.)  • Email templates, Graphic Design, Analytics, SEO, Paid Advertising, Amazon Seller Central Solutions Architect LightSpeed VT - Las Vegas, NV May 2017 to July 2018 • Advanced PHP and Javascript related functions/formulas.  • Management of 11 individuals in Support for a variety of skillsets.  • Worked closely with CTO, Sales, Marketing, Development Team  • Website, Web Infrastructure, and Network troubleshooting  • Custom development for various client projects  • AJAX, API's, JQuery, PHP, Batch process', Microsoft Office Suite, etc. Web Developer/Graphic Designer H & H Enterprises - Las Vegas, NV February 2016 to May 2017 • Advanced PHP and Javascript functions/formulas.  • Website development using HTML(5), CSS(3), JQuery, Javascript, and other frameworks.  • Web design/Graphic design using the adobe suite.  • Creating publishing adds and eblast content.  • Using Goldmine and Intelliclick for eblast campaign compilation and setup.  • Building SOAP Clients/Servers using WSDL documentation.  • Constructing SQL statements. Web Developer/Designer iCRco Inc - Torrance, CA May 2013 to September 2014 • Maintaining and updating the company website and its pages/functions.  • Building simple web pages using HTML(5), CSS, PHP, Javascript, and JQuery.  • Custom PHP builds utilizing 3rd party API's, SQL, and user input.  • Logical and complex PHP development with reusable and resource friendly code.  • Custom Internal/External facing tools utilizing PHP, MySQL, Javascript, JQuery, HTML, and CSS.  • JQuery and CSS driven web page effects and HTML/CSS responsive design.  • Joomla component and plugin development with some MVC framework experience.  • Search Engine Optimization.  • Intermediate Adobe Creative Suite experience.  • 3-dimensional modeling and web implementation using Cinema4D, Blender, and three.js.  • Maintaining deadlines and advising timeframes for web development projects. Technical Support Cake Marketing - Newport Beach, CA August 2011 to May 2013 • Fielding phone inquiries and support tickets.  • Creating projects to streamline company procedures and workflow.  • Collaborating with other departments and clients on various projects.  • Thinking on my feet in a market that is constantly changing and extremely dynamic.  • Guiding clients from selling them on the product and following through from beginning to end.  • Writing html and javascript based pages designed for client and company needs.  • Writing excel formulas to assist in new client data imports.  • Looking through clients code for issues and rewriting them to work correctly. (javascript, HTML, PHP, CSS, and some C based languages)    HTML(5), CSS(3), JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, PHP, MySQL, Propel, API's, Joomla, Wordpress, Magento, JSON, WSDL, SOAP, XML, Internet Marketing, 3D modeling, Photoshop, SEO, Lead Generation, Social Media Marketing, Brochure Design, Landing Page Design. Education High School Diploma Hawthorne High School - Torrance, CA June 2000 Skills Wordpress, Javascript, PHP, Front End Links http://mytek.la