Angularjs Developer Angularjs <span class="hl">Developer</span> Angularjs Developer - FedEx Dallas, TX • 8+ years of IT experience as a Front-End UI Developer with JavaScript, jQuery, HTML4.0/5, DOM, AJAX, CSS3, Angular.js, Angular 2, XHTML, Bootstrap, React.js, JSON meeting W3C standards.  • Expertise also in back-end development using Node.js, Express.js, MySQL and Mongo DB.  • Experienced in developmental processes such as Requirements Analysis, Development, Maintenance and Testing and associated methodologies.  • Proficient in front-end engineering with Object-Oriented analysis and JavaScript.  • Intricate working experience in plain JavaScript functionality, logics, scope maintainability and name-spacing the variables.  • Experienced in making use of expanded HTML5 APIs such as audio, video, SVG.  • Hands on expertise in Java frameworks such as jQuery either for manipulating the DOM or for AJAX operations.  • Sound knowledge of Document Object Model (DOM) Functions.  • Expertise working with CSS Box model, Positioning, background, Pseudo-class, Pseudo Elements, layouts, texts, tables, lists and links, Align, Dimension, Float, borders, margin and padding.  • Used flex box features of CSS3 in the web application development projects that required Responsive Web Design.  • Extensively used Angular 2 features like Directives, Filters, Two-way Data Binding, Services, Templates, Routing for building Single-Page-Applications.  • Experienced in developing effective web applications using J2EE Frameworks like MVC architecture, Hibernate, Struts and Spring frameworks.  • Used REST client / POSTMAN to check the response of various API's, Swagger UI as a visual documentation for back-end implementation and client-side consumption. Handled various exceptions based on the response.  • Expertise in using Web Design tools such as Bootstrap.  • Experience in writing application level code to interact with APIs using JSON.  • Skilled in back-end development using Node.js, Express.js and MongoDB.  • Involved in writing database queries, tables, procedures and triggers using MySQL.  • Expertise with Agile and Waterfall developmental processes.  • Worked on documentation tools and editors such as Eclipse, Net Beans, Edit Plus, Visual Studio, Sublime text, Grunt, Gulp, Notepad++.  • Extensively used jasmine and karma for performing unit and end to end testing.  • Experience in using SVN and GIT for version control and MAVEN for project development procedure.  • Hands-on experience in continuous integration and continuous deployment using Jenkins 2.7.1.  • Good knowledge on various IDE tools like RAD, Eclipse & Net Beans.  • Worked with variety of applications servers such as Tomcat APACHE, WEBLOGIC and IBM WebSphere.  • Effective time management skills and problem-solving skills, exceptional interpersonal skills, outstanding written and verbal communication.  • Extremely motivated, solid analytical skills and ability to deliver in fast paced, high stress environment.  • Ability to work efficiently as a team environment as well as independently with an intention to work hard to meet project deadlines.  • Highly experienced in E-commerce, Healthcare and Banking domains. Work Experience Angularjs Developer FedEx - Dallas, TX January 2018 to Present FedEx is an American global courier delivery Services Company. The company provides customers and businesses worldwide with a broad portfolio of transportation, e-commerce and business services. My role in the work is to maintain and develop the new things on the web page as per the client requirements. Generate code for engendering menu, profile, registration, and account summary etc., on the web page for the user to input data and additionally to secure the data by applying some technical codes.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed web pages using HTML5, Angular2, CSS3, Ajax, Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery based on the W3C standards and Web 2.0.  • Worked in a team, involved in developing the UI, layout and front-end programming (HTML) for a web application that matches requirements.  • Excellent Coordination of project activities and ensure that all project phases are followed and documented properly.  • Developed single page applications using Angular 2.0, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap.  • Involved in developing applications using Angular JS (2.0/4.0) like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, Combo-Box and Button etc.  • Extensively involved in design discussions and user experience sessions to provide inputs on the layout and UX.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular2.0 and Node JS  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML5, XHTML, and CSS3.  • Involved in developing HTML5 and JavaScript for client-side presentation and, data validation within the forms.  • Interacted with RESTful Web services using Angular 2 Http Module.  • Done unit tests in BDD format using Angular 2.0 testing library.  • Developed Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS Framework and injected generic services using Angular 2.0. Design all UI elements, wireframes, and comps with Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, and InDesign.  • Implemented Angular2/4 Services for connectivity between a web application and back end API's.  • Because of Angular JS weaknesses such as loading start time and optimization for search engines, migrated from Angular JS to Angular2/4.  • Well versed with TypeScript types, tuples, interfaces, classes, modules.  • A used TSLint tool that checks TypeScript code for readability, maintainability, and functional errors. Used SASS, SCSS for code minification.  • Developed POCs for AEM and Angular components integration strategy.  • Used Web pack to bundle TypeScript and JavaScript modules. Used Scaffolding tools like Yeoman to create the skeleton of the web application. Utilize package mangers like Bower and NPM.  • Used a full complement of Express, Angular, NodeJS and MongoDB to store and present assessments.  • Created workflows for activating & deactivating pages from the content authors' detailed knowledge of user and group administration in AEM.  • Managed source control and version control using GIT.  • created custom pipes using angular 2 before displaying it to the user.  • Involved in writing test cases using Jasmine and Karma to ensure 100% code coverage.  • Implemented end of end test with Protractor.  • Diverse experience in implementing N-tier and Microservices architecture applications using Spring Boot, Spring MVC, My SQL, SQLServer, Restful/SOAP Web Services.  • Involved in deploying applications in AWS environment using Jenkins, Dockers, Nginx and Git.  • Experienced in using Rally for bug tracking, issue tracking, and project management purpose.  • Experienced in Agile Software methodology.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, TypeScript, Angular 2/4, NodeJS, Express.JS, MongoDB, REST API's, Web pack, Yeoman, Babel, npm, Bower, TS Lint, Jasmine, Karma, Protractor, Rally, GIT, AWS, Jenkins, Dockers, Nginx, AEM/CQ5 and Visual Studio Angularjs Developer PNC Bank - Pittsburgh, PA November 2015 to January 2018 PNC offers a wide range of services for its customers, from individuals and small businesses, to corporations and government entities. PNC provides its services in Retail Banking, Asset Management Group, Corporate & Institutional Banking and Residential Mortgage Banking. In addition, it provides risk management, investment system outsourcing, and financial advisory services to a growing number of institutional investors. This project involved automation of PNC's Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) calculation projected to be reported daily.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on an Agile (Scrum) Development Team to deliver regular updates to business team and project managers.  • Involved designing in web pages using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, React.js, Redux, Flex, Mongo DB.  • Responsible to Style, look and feel of the web page with SASS that extends CSS with dynamic behavior such as variable, mixing, operations and functions.  • Researching JavaScript based frameworks like React Native and Ionic/Cordova for frontend.  • Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept.  • Responsible for React UI and architecture. Building components library, including Tree, Slide-View, and Table Grid.  • Implemented stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Used React-Autocomplete for creating google maps location search on the webpage.  • Configured Web pack to execute linters, magnifiers, pre/post-processors, tests, transpires, etc. based on build target.  • Utilized React for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app that searched projects via the GitHub API through keywords.  • Implemented React container and presentational components (as Stateless and Functional components when applicable).  • Added Excel-Builder to download the Tabular data in Excel format using React.  • Implemented flux pattern by using redux framework as a core dependency.  • Have worked on AWS to integrate the server side and client-side code.  • Experience in SOAP web services to integrate between Server side to Client Side.  • SOAP and Plugin integration of PC and BC application.  • Worked with JASMINE unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code.  • Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  • Handled cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on both Windows.  • As an onsite coordinator, I have interacted with offshore team to give the Functional and Technical Knowledge and to track the status of the project.  • Used HP Quality Center to keep track of outstanding bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and improve communication.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, Java Script, React JS, Redux, Flex, Web Strom, JSP, MS Office, HP Quality Center, Jasmine, GitHub, and Jenkins UI Developer Stonebridge Life Insurance - Plano, TX September 2013 to November 2015 Stonebridge Life Insurance Company operates as a direct to consumer insurance company. It offers term life insurance, whole life insurance, and accidental death plans directly to consumers via mail, phone, and the Internet. This was a web based and user-friendly system, which allowed users to navigate the forms and web pages with ease and order, required articles on-line. A secured payment verification system was developed to ensure online payment.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing the front-end applications using web technologies like HTML/HTML 5, and CSS/CSS3.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, and AngularJS.  • Using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and some jQuery, and clean semantic code.  • Involved in making the application Responsive using Bootstrap, and used LESS pre-processor.  • Developing UX design and clickable prototypes with front-end development utilizing Bootstrap, HTML5, and CSS3.  • Basic jQuery front-end frameworks for web, responsive and mobile-based web applications and websites, in an agile development environment.  • Code web applications utilizing programming languages like JavaScript, jQuery, SQL, and AJAX.  • Implement data grid/tables using Bootstrap and AngularJS for front-end client facing the Single Page Application (SPA).  • Developed gratifying experience with Responsive (RWD) and Adaptive Web Design principles.  • Re-skinning, updating and a complete redesign of an existing website, using Bootstrap.  • Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  • Responsible for writing and implementation of JavaScript, AJAX, and JQuery to interact with web Services and user controls.  • Develop and integrate related applications components, including front-end development and back-end integration.  • Used Maven builds tools, SVN / GIT source control systems.  • Define technical requirements based on business requirements.  Involved in Agile process, monthly Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the Application.    Environment: HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, LESS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Maven, SVN, JIRA, Agile, GIT, UNIX, MySQL, Grunt, Adobe Photoshop. UI Developer Optum Health - Eden Prairie, MN October 2011 to September 2013 Optum is a leading information and technology-enabled health services business. We're dedicated to helping make the health system work better for everyone. The project revolves around creating and developing Web page, my role at Optum health was involved in the page development of billing sections where the customers do their billings online and the responsibilities are listed below.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the requirement analysis and design phases to comprehend technical assessments, and to participate in implementation with minimal errors.  • Managed efficiently with Business, QA and coordinated with the business logic team.  • Designed the front-end applications, User Interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Used advanced level of jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  • Responsible for developing, editing, publishing and managing content on the external Web pages and internal layouts.  • Developed Graphics using Paint Shop Pro/Photoshop & Animation using Flash/Fireworks.  • Involved in designing and developing the JSON, XML Objects with SQL.  • Implemented browser-side element effects like Hiding, Show, Event Handling and DOM manipulation with jQuery.  • Developed code to call the web service/APIs to fetch the data and show it in the interface using jQuery/AJAX.  • Used jQuery and JavaScript to validate the input given to the UI.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework.  • Developed date, time picker using Object Oriented JavaScript extensively.  • Developed database connection and SQL Queries to create dynamic content on web pages.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, AngularJS, Wire-framing, and HTML.  • Extensive development of UI using jQuery, BackboneJS, Bootstrap, and JavaScript.  • Developed fast loading images using Adobe Photoshop CS3.  • Used SVN version control repository for source code management. Followed Agile and Scrum software development methodology    Environments: HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, MVC architecture, XML, JSON, SQL, Web Services, AngularJS, Backbones.JS, Bootstrap, SVN, Agile, Scrum, My SQL, Sublime Text Web Developer Reliance Communications Ltd May 2010 to June 2011 Reliance Communications is an Indian Internet access and telecommunications company. This IT support is provided by Reliance Tech Services and Telecom network is operated by Ericsson. It includes broadband, national and international long-distance services along with value add carrier services and applications.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for creating an efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery AJAX, and JSON.  • Used JavaScript, jQuery for user interactions in pages.  • Worked on creating a responsive website for smart devices using responsive design and media queries.  • Used jQuery Ajax for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information. Rapid prototyping of design concepts.  • Utilized various JavaScript and jQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  • Involved in designing and developing the JSON, XML Objects with MySQL.  • Used Ajax, JSON to send a request to the server to check the functionality of the websites.  • Testing the website on multiple browsers with their old as well as latest release.  • Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  • Integrated different social networking site like Facebook, Twitter.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML and JavaScript.  • Active participation throughout the entire software development lifecycle from project inception, to code development and elaborate testing of the various modules.  • Used agile methodology for the software development.  • Developed SQL queries to perform insert, update or delete operation on MySQL database.  • Responsible for authoring of website functionality with JavaScript, HTML, CSS.  • Been an active team player, helped in fixing bugs and also carried out troubleshooting.  • Produced semantically appropriate, standards-compliant markup, and produced Rich User Interfaces.  • Used all the advanced Photoshop features to create appealing visual web interfaces.    Environment: HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, JSON, jQuery, XML, MySQL, JBoss Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), BOOTSTRAP (7 years), ANGULARJS (7 years), CSS (7 years), Hadoop, Java, Drupal, Cobol, AEM Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages: Java, C, C++  Web Technologies: JavaScript, jQuery, CSS 3, HTML 5, JSON, Bootstrap, Angular JS, Angular 2/4/5, React JS, Express JS, Node JS, PHP, XML, XHTML, XSLT, AJAX, SASS, YEOMAN, GULP, GRUNT.  JavaScript Libraries: Backbone.JS, Ext.JS2.0/1.0, Node.JS, AngularJS, jQuery, bootstrap.JS, Require.JS  Application/ Web Servers: Apache Tomcat, HTTP Web Server, Jetty Server, Web Logic, Web Sphere.  Version Control: Git Hub, Perforce, TFVC, CVS, Apache Subversion  IDE: Eclipse, Net Beans, Edit Plus, IntelliJ IDEA, Visual Studio, Sublime text, Atom, Grunt, Gulp, Notepad++.  Databases & Platforms: MySQL, Oracle 9i/10g/11g, Mongo, NoSQL  Testing: Jasmine, Mocha, Chai and Karma  Debugging Tools: TIBCO, Bugzilla, Firebug, Chrome Developer Tools  Build Tools: Ant, Maven, Gradle, Jenkins  Other Tools: Docker, Browser stack, JS Hint, JS Lint, Windows Movie maker, MS office, Adobe Photoshop, Dreamweaver  Operating Systems: Windows 2000/XP/7, Windows 8/8.1, Windows 10, Linux, UNIX  Development Methodology: Agile, Waterfall.    PROFESSIONAL EXPEREINCE: