Web Developer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - SANMINA CORPORATION Huntsville, AL Results-driven web developer with strong analytical and problem solving skills. Full stack developer with experience in all  stages of web development including research, design, development, testing, deployment and maintenance. Innovative  problem solver and skilled communicator. Work Experience Web Developer SANMINA CORPORATION - Huntsville, AL 2017 to Present • Worked on developing and customizing a WordPress plugin to streamline the content promotion process from staging environment to the production site. Implemented custom modules to allow content promotion across the existing firewall and network constraints.    • Created a new custom plugin to integrate the FreshDesk ticketing system into the existing public facing site.    • Included functionalities to integrate authentication, creating/viewing/editing tickets for external vendors to raise service requests with Sanmina/42-Q helpdesk.    • Created and added functionalities like new layout, new logical buttons/dropdowns to enhance the UI/UX for the freshdesk portal to be accessed by Sanmina/42-Q vendors.    • Developed and maintained key functionalities into the public facing websites like Sanmina, 42-Q, Viking Technology and Viking Enterprise Solutions.    • Due to the Growing Google initiative within the organization, actively involved in the core team to convert the custom macro code used in different global offices into Google App Script that is primarily built on JavaScript.    • Provided global support to teams in India, China, Mexico and Brazil in the Google App Script training. Also providing an ongoing support to the corporate team in San Jose, CA to convert major macros script into Appscript with coordinated efforts between the internal developer team and the support engineers at Google. Web Developer/Analyst OAK RIDGE NATIONAL LABORATORY - Knoxville, TN 2016 to 2017 • Developed several robust websites for multiple clients in collaboration with numerous in-house experts that provided an optimized user experience, search engine ranking, and analytics using piwik.    • Responsible for supporting and creating new SharePoint websites, effectively, spanning all phases of the development lifecycle from gathering project prerequisites to product implementation with 100% customer satisfaction rate.    • Revamped and developed websites for customers to enhance user satisfaction, streamlining navigation and browsing, and circumventing the need for third party applications.    • Improved the user experience on the homepage for Oak Ridge National Laboratory by focusing on broken links, and fixing existing bugs to improve web functionality and user experience    • Created forms for internal and external use with extensive experience doing it for multiple customers across the lab using Adobe LiveCycle and Frevvo and considered a subject-matter expert with the extensive experience doing it for multiple customers across the lab.    • Responsible for supporting simple to highly complex enterprise level projects with strong focus on customer service and effective communication skills. Web Developer TEGNA MEDIA - Knoxville, TN 2016 to 2016 • Converted wireframes for web design project for local news stations into static HTML and CSS websites.    • Added interactivity using jQuery and JavaScript to create responsive and slide-in navigation and slideshow picture galleries.    • Used ASP.NET MVC framework and Razor templating engine to create modular HTML code to reuse across different designs. Web Developer OMNI HEALTH SERVICES - Allentown, PA 2015 to 2016 • Conceptualized and developed a dynamic website that is interactive, secure, and includes features like optimizing user experience and tracking web analytics.    • Designed and developed the intra-company website.    • Utilized technologies like JavaScript, jQuery and PHP to build dynamic and interactive website.    • Conducted quality assurance testing by identifying, troubleshooting and debugging defects in front-end and back- end code.    • Conducted routine website and database maintenance from acquired technical specifications and requirements. Founder CITRUS TREE CONSULTING - Knoxville, TN 2014 to 2016 • Co-developed dynamic, secure websites for clients from scratch using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP and MySQL.    • Migrated static content to WordPress for clients.    • Provided initial feedback and consultation to first time clients for developing and custom designing webpages that are aesthetic, user friendly and effective.    • Participated in design work by creating custom design elements for websites.    • Performed routine maintenance for clients like website upgrades, social media and SEO. Customer Service Manager MICROBIAL INSIGHTS - Knoxville, TN 2013 to 2014 • Maintained customer relationship management database (MySQL).    • Developed and managed the proposal schedule and the budget for tenders.    • Monitored and managed multiple subcontractors and researchers to accomplish project objectives.    • Led the customer service department and facilitated the project deliverables in cooperation with other departments.     • Responsible for mentoring new hires within the customer service department. Research Associate UNIVERSITY OF TENNESSEE - Knoxville, TN 2008 to 2012 • Computational bioinformatics by using FORTRAN, Perl, C and SAS for statistical data analysis and PGPLOT, a graphical library, for graphical analysis of data.    • Co-authored six conference presentations and one scientific publication. Education Masters of Science in Genome Science and Technology in Genome Science and Technology University of Tennessee - Knoxville, TN Skills Git, Bootstrap, Reactjs, Json, Python, Ajax, Sharepoint, Mysql, Postgres, jquery, Sass, Apache, Linux, Rest, Mongodb, Wordpress