Senior .Net Developer Senior .Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior .Net Developer - Fahrenheit IT Austin, TX • .Net Developer with approximately 8 years of IT experience with exceptional skills in Analysis, Design and Development of high scalable n-tier Web Applications, Distributed Applications and Web Services using Microsoft Technologies.  • Experience in using various methodologies in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) like SCRUM/AGILE, Waterfall.  • Experience in programming with .NET Framework using C#, .NET Core, ADO.NET, ASP.NET, Visual Studio 2013/2012, SQL server 2012/2010, Azure, ASP.NET MVC and WCF.  • Extensive experience in enhancing and maintaining applications developed in .NET Framework.  • Proficient in creating Web pages and building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML5, DHTML, table less XHTML, CSS3 and Java Script, AngularJS, JSON, AJAX, JQuery.  • Experience with development of applications using MVC frame work, Bootstrap, MVVM and WCF.  • Extensive experience in working with ASP.NET MVC, Web Forms, User Controls and Custom Controls.  • Experience on UI Design using Razor, Bootstrap, and AJAX control toolkit.  • Proficient in developing application with .NET Framework (1.1/2.0/3.0/3.5/4.0/4.5) and associated technologies, including: as ASP.NET, ASP.NET, C#, ADO.Net, Angular JS, Bootstrap, WPF, WCF and SQL Server 2005/2008/2008 R2 and 2012. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior .Net Developer Fahrenheit IT - Chicago, IL June 2018 to Present • Experienced in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)-Project Analysis, Requirements, Design, Development, Testing, Documentation, and Deployment in Agile Methodology.  • Involved in gathering and preparing the requirements from clients for Report IQ design and enhancements.  • Worked on export/import Excel sheets from the application to give user more flexibility to upload the data.  • Worked on Login experience to make it Single-Sign On application.  • Worked on Blob storage for better performance of the application.  • Designed and implemented Data access layers using LINQ to query/sort data from a list of data that is being cached.  • Responsible for Designing, Coding, Developing and implementing Report IQ application using ASP.NET MVC, C#, jQuery, Angular JS, ASP.NET and SSRS.  • Implemented functionality of dynamically generated reports using C#, jQuery, Angular JS, ASP.NET and SSRS.  • Developed dynamic ASPX web pages for Application using ASP.NET, C#.NET, XML, HTML, JavaScript.  • Implemented OPS Portal to monitor reports activity and applications support using C#, AngularJS  • Experience developing Single Page Web Applications using Angular JS, Node JS.  • Implemented Business OPS Portal for the business users to monitor reports delivery activity as well as cloning and transferring reports from one user to another user.  • Experience with various MVC Java frameworks like Angular.js, Node.JS, bootstrap.JS, require .JS and Responsive Web Design.  • Extensively used Angular JS on front end. Utilized the Angular JS directives, factory, service and filters. Created a number of custom directives to reuse them across the application.  • Created Data Dictionary for the report columns analysis using C#, ASP.NET MVC, AngularJS  • Created various tools for deploying reports and re-run the reports through OPS portal using C#, AngularJS.  • Developed High Level Design, Class diagrams for the modules that are coded.  • Involved in Bug fixing and functionality enhancements.  • Supporting offshore resources issues and conducting periodic training sessions.  • Unit testing on every new version before sending it for User Acceptance Test (UAT).  • Undertaking planning/resource facilitation and building/deployment of the applications to get new functionalities rolling into for the users.  • Research new technologies and enhancements to improve upon existing architecture for more user friendly experience and improved data delivery.    Environment: ASP.NET, C#, AngularJS, Azure, REST API, SOAP, HTML5, Java Script, JQuery, ADO.NET, LINQ, MVC4, AJAX, SQL Server 2016, Visual Studio 2017, GIT, Jira, Bitbucket. Senior.NET Developer iCore Technologies, LLC - Des Moines, IA September 2016 to May 2018 • Worked with Business Analysts in understanding business requirements and analyzing user stories.  • Identify user stories and break them down into logical tasks and estimate them.  • Developed web application using C#, Bootstrap and AngularJS.  • Created custom directives for reusable components in AngularJS.  • Implemented AngularJS Controllers to maintain each view data and made service calls in service class.  • Used Angular4 Reactive forms to implement complex forms and performed the validations using Form Builder.  • Created Single Page Application with the help of Angular4 Router Module.  • Developed interactive and user friendly User Interface (UI) using Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, Type Script and AngularJS.  • Used Dependency Injection to create a loosely coupled application by injecting the WCF service methods and data layers into the web project.  • Used Auto Mapper for mapping various objects- domain to view model and vice versa.  • Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing Angular/Angular2.0 JS, developed routing through web pages and achieved Single page application.  • Used Angular JS to achieve two-way data binding.  • Implemented different validation control on the web-pages using Angular/Angular2.0 JS.  • Redesign and replace Jquery, CSS files with Bootstrap and angular2 and services for a modular easy to maintain front-end.  • Used TFS for version control and manage team's tasks.    Environment: ASP.NET, CSS3, AngularJS, REST API, SOAP, HTML5, Java Script, JQuery, ADO.NET, LINQ, MVC4, AJAX, Elasticsearch, SQL Server 2016, Visual Studio 2015, GIT, Jira, Bitbucket. Net Developer TEKsystems - Overland Park, KS December 2013 to August 2016 • Worked online with around 500 employees in this company.  • Made the Web design for Websites that fulfill the client requirements using C# language.  • Made the database using wampserver in java & also worked in Eclipse Software.  • Developed WPF application using Control Templates, Data Templates, Bindings, Converters, routed Events, Command bindings, Commands and new features like LINQ and lambda expressions.  • Coordinated with systems partners to finalize designs and confirm requirements.  • Involved in improving the performance of the application, by identifying the performance bottle necks using Visual Profiler.  • Generated Unit Test Cases using Visual Studio 2012.  • Experience in maintenance for the applications developed in ASP.NET.  • Followed change management system and version management using TFS.  • Diagnosed and troubleshoot UNIX and Windows processing problems and applied solutions to increase company efficiency    Environment:ASP.NET, C#, Amazon Web Services, AngularJS, Bootstrap, REST API, Jira, Bitbucket, Jenkins, HTML5, Java Script, MVC4, WPF, WCF, AJAX, SQL Server 2012, Visual Studio 2013, GIT. Web Developer-Industrial Internship Fuse3 Solutions - Oklahoma City, OK June 2012 to November 2013 • Managed a team of 2 other members to developed a website as an Online Toy Store for Administration, Customers and Toy Manager. Requirements for customers to view the different types of toys, select the toys, make purchase or rent.  • Webpage allowed for vendors to sell their products but to also see a conclusive report of all items sold and cost of goods sold.  • Designed and Developed C# .NET code for the project.  • Designed and developed front-end windows applications using C#.  • Used Excel documents, XML documents, Visual Studio 2012, SQL server 2008.  • Involved in the code enhancement for version 4 models and Validations were handled using C#.  • Developed and designed pages in MVC4.  • Provide technical support for client/server applications including ASP application and web Application.  • Created single page applications using Angular JS.  • Created web services as per the business requirement.  • Designed and developed REST API web services for all functions related to system management.  • Consumed the SOAP Web Service methods and WCF Services.  • Developed the Applications Using WIN FORMS.  • Displayed Billing information to the customers at the end.  • Our Administration requirements were on top of the Toy Manager and customers functionalities, add/update/delete toys information, categories and customer profile.  • Developed Website using Visual Studio 2012 as a Front-end, database was created in My SQL Server 2012.  • Used WCF for building, configuring and deploying services.  • Created classes and core modules in C# for implementing business layer.  • Implemented Object oriented programming concepts in C#.  • Used data grid to view the data on the front end UI.  • Used JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, C#, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap. Generated different reports using Crystal Reports.  • Drew different types of UML diagrams using Microsoft Office Visio application.    Environment: ASP.NET, C#.NET, HTML, Win Forms, ADO.NET, MVC, CSS, AngularJS, SSRS, Web Services, XML, XSL, Windows 2000, Visio tool Web Developer - Internship TriQuest Business Services - San Antonio, TX January 2011 to May 2012 • Designed ASP.NET Web Forms, C# , User Interface with HTML and Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) Designed page and AJAX, master pages and JQuery  • Involved in development of web graphics and graphical (UI) Pages using the HTML, Master Pages & ASP.NET Controls  • We developed following modules: salary, attendance, appointment and billing, employee scheduling.  • Developed website using Visual Studio 2012 as a Front-end, database was created in Microsoft Office Access.  • Development & Unit testing of entire system.  • Coding and implementation of the web application includes new forms and fields.  • Designed Database, Developed Stored Procedures and Wrote triggers for sending Emails to clients after any kind of transaction has been made.  • Used JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, C#, HTML, CSS, and Bootstrap. Generated different reports using Crystal Reports.  • Drew different types of UML diagrams using Microsoft Office Visio Application.    Environment: .NET 3.5, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, C#.NET, VS 2008, TFS 2008, SQL Server 2008, JavaScript. Education Bachelor's Bachelor's Bachelor's