Sr. Web Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Web Developer - Safran Composites Sunnyvale, CA • 5+years of Web Developer experience with hands-on development for Banking services and Aerospace Industry with extensive expertise designing and developing Web Applications. In Front-end and Back- end technologies. My focus on HTML, CSS/CSS3 JavaScript Libraries, React, Node JS/express, jQuery, AngularJS, Java, JSF 2.0, MVC Springs, Python 2.7, SOAP web services, Hibernate 3.0, ORACLE 11g 12c, MySQL, SQL Server and Mongo DB.  • Senior Web Developer with extensive Front and Back-End Web Development experience.  • Strong experience with responsive Web Design using Bootstrap, HTML CSS/CSS3, Angular JS, React, AJAX and JavaScript Frameworks in corporative backing projects creating custom web layouts and navigations.  • Extensive Experience in Back-End development on Node JS/express, Java Frameworks such as MVC Springs, JSF and Struts.  • Extensive experience with MySQL and Oracle and No relational DBs in MongoDB.  • Extensive Experience using GIT/HUB and Bitbucket and Continuous Deliveries as Jenkins.  • Experience in working in large team environments and multicultural places.  • Experience in working with customers, analyzing business model and taking needs and requirements to software specs.  • Extensive experience with Data Engineering  • Experience in using Python to do Database data migration between different DBMS.  • Creative and full of ideas, using technologies and resources available to solve problems.  • Management and Leadership abilities, administrative skills and team player.  • Auto didactic, fast learner, passionate and hardworking, capable of learning anything very fast on my own.  • Experience using SPC Vision for statistical process control and R-studio to develop dashboards for graphics and control charts. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Web Developer Safran Composites - Rochester, NH September 2018 to Present Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, React and Node JS/express, Mocha, Nightwatch.js, jQuery, XML, MYSQL and MongoDB GIT and Jenkins environments, R Language, Python, Shiny servers,    Description: Design and Development of a Web Application to recover the data provides from SPC vision and launch a dashboards, control graphics and user interfaces to see the description about the capability of the Machining process. The System shows Statistical information for users, charts and reports which helps to follow the correct product integrity for manufacture parts in aerospace industry.    Responsibilities:  • Develop a user interface in React and Node JS/express to show a description about the capabilities for each Machining machine (MMC), implementing a connection in Mongo DB to retrieve the data.  • Developed a dashboard to display and manage for Engineering area accounts and details related to that each engineer account using, HTML, AJAX and CSS3.  • Implement the SPC methodology, architecture and design which was developed in SAC ROC NH USA.    • Plateau Industrielle (Safran's Manufacturing Software). Defined the requirements-needed to implement this corporative tool for QRO's engineering team for the Fan Blade 1B LEAP Engine. Training taken in Corbeil France with the Safran methods developing team who has defined and design the tool. Currently it's in testing phase and it will be launched later this year.  • Develop and python support for web applications in Shiny servers (R-Studio) using a Jenkins automation to run the python code which is located in a Bitbucket repository and Git version control. The applications were developed in home for statistical control charts, Engineering reports and Data analysis. Data comes from manufacturing process (Metrology, Tomography and Painting) for the blade composite structure.  • Usage of AJAX, XML and jQuery to transfer data between client and server.  • Lock MySQL Database tables or rows as needed to avoid data incongruence.  • Set up MongoDBs to read JSON and XML files provides from the Metrology machines for data acquisition.  • Linux Command line administration (bash) on Red Hat and Ubuntu 16.04.4 LTS.  • Developed more than 90% of both Front-end and Back-end functionalities.  • Be the main contact with the different software suppliers in case of an external support is needed.  • Weekly data steering committee between Rochester and Commerce data teams in order to propose new data and software solutions and define SCRUM projects to implement it using JIRA software  • Help in the data analysis in the parts to solve problems and propose improvements.  • Full developer, designer and analyst of entire system. Sr Web Developer Santander Banking Group March 2016 to August 2018 Environment: HTML, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript libraries, React, jQuery and jQuery UI AJAX, Angular JS, Java JSF Prime Faces Framework, JSON files. Oracle 11 g and MySQL.    Description: The project was carried out in order to generate an innovative product in the market to attract new customers also rewarding those who follow with their faithfulness. Within the technological implementation the project using an agile software methodology due to short time assigned. A SCRUM team was formed by developers in order to define design and implement this corporative project in a short time. The aim was to launch a robust and integral application at the national level which cover  2 needs: Backing clients (Subscribes by 3 different sales channels (Payroll, Telemarketing and Branch Offices)) and Baking users developing a Work flow to tracking the sales behavior from the different channels.    Responsibilities:  • Developed web forms to display credit and payroll card transactions (using, JavaScript, HTML, AJAX, Prototype.js and CSS3).  • Participate in each sprint cycle and following the sprint backlog definition, adapting store procedures, triggers in Oracle 11g and applying ETL concepts to recovery and extract the data for  • different banking sources (local data warehouse, TXT and CSV files). The total discharges of customers daily (around 6K stored data) which were activated for the 3 channel sales.  • Front-end Design and Development for the user view and the administrator view with HTML, CSS and Bootstrap, Javascript Libraries such as React for user interfaces. Developing Web application for 2 Baking users (Payroll and Branch Offices).  • Cross browser compatibility with IE6+, Chrome, Chromium and Firefox.  • Back-end Designing and Development for the user view and the administrator view with Java JSF and Prime Faces framework, Hibernate, MySQL.  • Drag and Drop AJAX Multi-File Upload with jQuery, jQuery UI and Angular JS.  • Pagination and AJAX Navigation using Prime Faces framework,  • Researched tons of jQuery plugins for a Rich Front-End Presentation.  • Managed most input validations using Regular Expressions with JavaScript and jQuery, using qTip2 for error, warning and success messages.  • In charge of investigating new technologies and applied them on the project.  • Environment: HTML, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript libraries, jQuery and jQuery UI AJAX, Angular JS, Java Springs MVC and Struts, Hibernate, JSON and XML files. Oracle 11 g and MySQL. Web Developer Request Technology - Lisle, IL January 2014 to February 2016 Description: This Project was named HASBRO CHRISTMAS. The aim was to launch a web game station aimed for children who could play in an atmosphere which creates fantasy and fun. Tasks included combining the animations made in CS5 AS 3.0 sending the parameters to server using PHP language and storing data punctuation games in MySQL data base.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Front-end and Back-end with PHP, JavaScript, HTML/CSS jQuery.  • Attend meetings directly with clients to show progress and get new requirements.  • MySQL Database Administration.  • Usage of phpMyAdmin and console to modify and update the database schema and data. Education Bachelor's stanford university Skills Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Json, Python, Shiny, Xml, Dbms, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Java, jquery, Css, Tomcat, Web server, Apache, Linux, Red hat Additional Information Technical Skills    Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Json, Python, Shiny, Xml, Dbms, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Css, Tomcat, Web server, Java, jquery, Apache, Linux, Red hat