Student Assistant Web Developer/Mathematics Tutor Student Assistant <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Mathematics Tutor Mathematics instructor - CSU SAN MARCOS San Marcos, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Student Assistant Web Developer/Mathematics Tutor CSU SAN MARCOS May 2018 to Present Math Lab • Study sessions for midterms and finals • Tutoring for the GRE, CBEST, CSET and other standardized exams. Web Server/ Web Developer Survey Gizmo January 2018 to Present Description: For the TCL file, I decided to create all nodes individually, instead of using a for loop because I wanted to distinguish between the servers, routers, and destinations. I also implemented the connections for Server 7, Server 12, Server 13, and Server 14 individually because I found it easier to associate a unique flow id to the connections this way.    Created a Simple Web Server.  Responsibilities: • Used C++ and C to create socket when contacted by the client (browser).  • Used HTTP response message consisting of requested file preceded by header lines and then sends that response over TCP to requesting browser. Python Developer Survey Gizmo August 2017 to Present It's an Android Application and Web Application. To take survey and to download the result in pdf form from api.  Responsibilities: • Used Java and C++ for the web services and python for back-end of the code.  • Used Amazon web Services to download data from api to download documents and content in pdf view.  • Interpret JSON from api to fetch data.  • Used Amazon Web Services to download data from api in background. Used python and Django/Flask to merge front-end and Back-end to launch services after each survey. Lead Programmer Survey Gizmo January 2018 to May 2018 Unity Java/JavaScript Developer  Monster Shooter  Description: Monster Shooter is a graphical style game that allows for a focus on gameplay and it is very customizable with full madding support. There are variety of game types, with scripting done in Unity. Multiple view modes like top down/first person, allows for a unique perspective of action. Last but not least there are wide range of weapons and monsters made by the team using customizable library.  Responsibilities: • Led all aspects of programming for the shooting game Monster Shooter. Used unreal script. Managed project dependencies and schedule for integrating game assets like audio, textures, and models according to the levels.  • Programmed armor and weapons modules; created camera view and successfully integrated all animations and models into the games on time, quickly learning a new language with little documentation.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Manage and Lead Invest Express/Simulation game design team by setting goals and providing on going guidance to the team members.  • Assess the work load vs. production capacity, plan the work, and set priorities for the game design team. STUDENT WEB DEVELOPER CSU SAN MARCOS January 2017 to November 2017 Responsibilities: • Established content review and redesign cycle to keep the CSUSM website contemporary.  • Helps the web team with site editing that deals with HTML, CSS, API, JAVA, XSLT, SOAP, PHP, and Velocity.  • Provides support to site owners on editing their content using CMS Hannonhill Cascade. C/C++ Developer C-Shell January 2017 to August 2017 History Command Implementation  This project aims to create a virtual shell similar to Unix shell. The user can enter commands to be executed and also access the history of commands.  Responsibilities: • Implemented a history feature in C allowing users to recall, edit and rerun previous commands.  • Previous commands stored in an array are displayed and rerun using user defined functions.  • Used Multi-Threading and forking process to run the program simultaneously. COMPUTER SCIENCE TUTOR CSU SAN MARCOS STEM CENTRE January 2016 to August 2016 Responsibilities: • Provide an assistance to the high school student with computer programming Skills.  • Lead STEM workshops for High school students for building a Hummingbird Robot.  • Proven ability to lead and motivate students in a structured manner. Education Computer Science California State University San Marcos May 2019 Skills problem solving, Typing, Microsoft Office (7 years), Javascript, CSS, MYSQL, Git, HTML 5, PHP, Jquery Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/raj-potla-2264b6144 https://github.com/RajPotla Certifications/Licenses CRLA Certification May 2019 to Present Additional Information • 2 years of experience in Software Development and Web Development technologies.  • Experience in tracking escape defects to avoid future occurrences.  • Web Development using HTML, JavaScript, CSS, PHP, CMS Hannonhill, and Velocity.  • Used Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, Outlook, Visual Studio, etc.)  • Experience in writing programs using C, C++, Java, Python, PHP, .Net, etc.  • Used FileZilla and Putty to upload the website to the server.  • Have an experience with share, fetch, and upload code with team mates using GitHub commands.  • Used digital logic integrated circuitry for experiments with combinational and sequential networks, and simple digital systems.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Worked on building 8-bit Computer using Raspberry Pi and Arduino UNO R3  • Worked with different teams and also managed teams according to the requirements of projects. Worked with the teams to design the database and records.  • Discussed requirements with teams to create applications and web applications and created different models from scratch.  • Used Borland C++ and G++/gcc compilers.  • Tutored Students at CSU San Marcos STEM Centre, different programming languages and the concepts and later applied that knowledge to obtained Hummingbird Robot using Programming skills.    TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Operating Systems: Linux Ubuntu, Windows, Mac OS.  Development Tools: Putty, Notepad++, Visual Studio 2016, Android Studio, Flask, Django, Sublime  SPIM Simulator (Assembly), Netbeans.  Database: MySQL, NoSQL, SQLite, Apache Zookeeper.  Languages: C, C++, Python, C#, PHP, Java, JavaScript, .Net, CSS, SOAP, Matlab, HTML.  Other Tools: Microsoft Office, Microsoft Azure, Mozilla, Internet Explorer.