UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - Wells Fargo Cincinnati, OH • Over 7+ years of experience in UI development, Front end development, and Rich user interface design, development, documentation, standards, media (screen, mobile, touch interface) compatibilities, application architecture, wireframes, project and team management.  • Expertise in developing and updating a web page quickly and effectively using HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS, JavaScript and JQuery Mobile with the webpage cross browser compatibility and Responsive design.  • Complete knowledge of Web protocols and standards (HTTP, HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, Web Forms, XML, XML parsers).  • Well-versed using JavaScript and JQuery for manipulating the mark-up and data operations using JQuery AJAX.  • Experience in developing applications using waterfall, RAD and Test Driven methodologies.  • Extensive experience with UML design  • In depth experience at one time or another with AngularJS, ReactJS, jQuery,jQuery UI, Backbone.js, Node.js.  • Sound Understanding and good Experience with Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript, Object Oriented Design, Implementation and successfully implemented the concepts in Android.  • Expertize with D3 & Highcharts for Data Visualization.  • Experienced in debugging web applications in different browsers and tools using Firebug, and testing applications using Protractor, Jasmine, Mocha, and karma, Firefox, Chrome developer's tool and Firebug.  • Responsible for writing automatic runnable tasks using Grunt and Gulp to improve development efficiency.  • Expert in designing web applications and web contents utilizing various Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.  • Implemented JavaScript source code, embedded nested handling logic and callback functions. Worked closely with the project management and marketing team to completely define specifications to help ensure project acceptance.  • Strong communication, collaboration & team building skills with proficiency in grasping new technical concepts quickly.  • Self-starter always inclined to learn new technologies and Team Player with very good communication, organizational and interpersonal skills. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience UI Developer Wells Fargo - Cincinnati, OH January 2018 to Present RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Developed service infrastructure components in Angular5/Typescript for a unified web UI initiative.  • Spearheaded adoption of new principles such as responsive design, mobile first and adaptive design using Angular 4 libraries using Typescript.  • Designed and coded customized Angular 5 services to interact with the backend API and serve components.  • Implemented Angular5/6 Injectable services to connect the web application to back-end APIs to POST/GET the data used in the application.  • Implemented Various Custom Pipes for grouping the data.  • Implemented Angular 5.0/6.0 components using structural directives like *NgFor,*NgIf, NgClass, Property Binding and Event Binding.  • Worked on Angular 5 routing and navigation functionality to navigate through different pages.  • Developing and updating a web page quickly and effectively using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and JQuery with the web page cross browser compatibility.  • Angular4, Ajax module is used to handle Restful calls to enable communication between view components and server.  • Worked in Agile Scrum projects and attended Scrum meetings, User Story review meetings, Sprint Review and Retrospective meetings as part of Agile Methodology.  • Used GIT for version control for defect tracking.  • Performed Unit Testing and code coverage with Karma, Jasmine for angular JS test cases.  • Extensively worked with making calls to APIs to fetch the data from the backend as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation.  • Designed data formatted web applications using HTML, DHTML, XHTML and CSS and deploy the script by client side scripting using Angular4.  • Used the basic principles of MVC to incorporate the AngularJS to build client side application and Node.js for building server side API's.  • Worked on SASS to build optimized CSS to work across multiple web pages and styles.  • Used Bootstrap to create Responsive Web Design.  • Utilized LESS for CSS functions, mixins, variables, among many of its other powerful tasks.  • Have been an active team player, helped in fixing bugs and also carried out troubleshooting.  • Used Node.js as a cross-platform runtime environment for developing server-side web applications.  • Extensively used DOJO with Advance JavaScript to implement workflow widget step by step workflow process with the best User Experience.  • Created and deployed Web Services using, SOAP, and XML for Pulling Customer Service Records.  • Good understanding of REST API's extensive experience of integrating web services via Ajax using JavaScript, JQuery and Angular.js.  • Experienced in developing applications using Agile Methodologies, Waterfall Methodology and Scrum stories in a python based environment.  • Created Restful services for the web application to perform certain functionalities on the database.  • Used Material Design grid-based layouts, responsive animations and transitions, padding, and depth effects such as lighting and shadows.  • Used SOAP Web Services for communicating data between different applications  • Deployed the application on Apache Tomcat Server.  • Worked closely with the Business Analysts to get the project requirement and to analyze them. Also, participated in the meetings with the Stakeholders to fully understand the requirements.  • Worked closely with the Technical Document Scripter to document all progress and was responsible for giving presentations to various committees.    Environment: HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Angular.js, Typescript, Angular4/5/6, Bootstrap (3.3.2/4), MDB Angular, AJAX, JQuery, SOAP, MySQL, NPM, Oracle 11g, Eclipse, JSON, Apache Tomcat, Maven, JUnit, SASS and PaaS, Restful, Grunt, and GitHub. Web UI Developer Liberty Mutual Insurance - Cincinnati, OH June 2015 to December 2017 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Developing web pages by using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript and working knowledge of Backbone JS, Node JS, Bootstrap JS, Angular2, and Angular4.  • Used Angular4 as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Implemented Angular components for UI services to consume REST services using Component based architecture by providing Angular2/4.  • Enhanced an existing AngularJS application to follow strict MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance and enhanced performance.  • Developed the application using Angular 2/4 along with HTML, CSS4 and Typescript and bootstrap4, spring, Hibernate, MySQL and DB.  • Developed various web pages and components using Angular2 by implementing predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager)  • Used JavaScript, CSS and Ajax for Web application development.  • Used Ajax & JSON communication for accessing RESTful web services data payload and to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Review Voluntary Product Accessibility Template (VPAT) for all third party learning Tools  Interoperability (LTI) integration requests for Blackboard and design corrective action plans as needed to meet the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0 level AA.  • Review newly developed online and hybrid course materials to ensure all meet the WCAG 2.0 level  AA and utilizing the Universal Design for Learning (UDL) principles  • In-Depth knowledge of Web2.0, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS3, W3C Standards.  • Expertise in debugging and troubleshooting existing code.  • Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML5, DHTML, Tableless XHTML, CSS3 and JavaScript that follows W3C Web Standards and browser compatible.  • Adding ES6 features involving ERROR functions, Promises, Exports, Imports and TEMPLATE strings.  • Maintain and enhance UI using Ionic and running xml upload applications.  • Data Mapping: Developed XSLT programs for transformation of data from database and spreadsheets into new data format.  • Implemented AngularJS based http service to make AJAX requests to call the web services/APIs to fetch the data and populate the UI. Utilized Web sockets andNode.js to provide real time support.  • Used Bootstrap to render grid system and run media queries to make the web portal responsive according to the size of the device.  • Designed and built components and use Templates to create UI application and extend HTML with directives and data binding.  • Worked on merging, committing the branches in the version control GIT and JIRA for issue assignment and development tracking.  • Used Grunt JS and the open source from GitHub to stream build system in front-end web development.  • Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML5, DOM, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3 and jQuery.  • Designed a responsive website using Bootstrap grid system to layout contents that fit different devices including mobile, tablet and desktop.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, Dojo, AngularJS, Angular2/4,Node.JS, Express.JS, Typescript, ES6, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, XSLT, MySQL, Knockout.JS ,SVN, Bootstrap, Jasmine, Grunt JS, GIT, NPM, MongoDB, MVC5, Apache Tomcat. UI/ Web Developer Exelon Corp - Houston, TX September 2013 to May 2015 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Involved in Requirement gathering phase to gather the requirements from the business users and dealing with UX team to continuously accommodate changing user requirements.  • Applied advanced HTML, JavaScript, and CSS to deliver innovative user interfaces and components.  • Created interactive websites and website features using JavaScript and JQuery UI.  • Extensively used Angular with HTML, CSS, and Bootstrap to create rich User Experience.  • Used Angular.js for developing single page web applications and Node. JS Application in building the minified versions.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angularjs  • Wrote Page level code using JavaScript with Angular.js framework along with JQUERY and other JavaScript libraries.  • Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS based on the W3C standards  • Spearheaded adoption of Responsive Web design principles.  • Used Jasmine to perform unit testing of custom filters, custom directives, and various parts of AngularJS application.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Backbone JS and Node JS.  • Build service-based architectures and platforms using core JAVA, Servlets, JSP and Web - Services.  • Worked with Node.js to give a structure with rich API over a RESTful JSON interface.  • Wrote application level code to interact with the backend databases JQUERY, AJAX and JSON.  • Implemented Grails Services and controllers to perform actions.  • Involved in rendering custom HTML tags using React.js.  • Implementing client-side Interface using React.js.  • Used Node JS for heavy DOM manipulation.  • Worked upon the dashboard for the project which contained a variety of charts and drag gable components using JQUERY UI Library.  • Used AJAX for asynchronously exchanging small amount of data with the server behind the scenes and updating the JSP page.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Developed and deployed Action Classes and JSP for Dynamic HTML generation.  • Generated new and edited existing design with CSS to accommodate new changes in design    Environment: AngularJs, HTML, CSS, J Query, Handle Bars, AJAX, Responsive Web Design, Jasmine, Grails, MongoDB, Node.js, React.js, JSON, JavaScript, JSP, SASS and Windows Frontend Developer Screatives - IN July 2012 to August 2013 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Experience in the daily stand up Scrum Agile meetings for reporting the day-to-day developments of the work done.  • Developed all the UI pages using HTML, XUL, DHTML, XSL/XSLT, XHTML, DOM, CSS, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, and Ajax.  • Developed use friendly interface to seamlessly combine the new module with existing login system by using Angular JS framework and jQuery.  • Coded Angular JS controllers and directives for application functionality.  • Created XHTML Pages with CSS and the Box Model.  • Integrated the Java code (API) in JSP Pages.  • Used JQuery Events to manipulate the elements depends on the user interactions and y to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree.  • Used JQuery plug-ins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Developed Date Time Picker using Object Oriented JavaScript extensively.  • Designed Pdf, Excel and Print previews for all the reports in the application using HTML, JavaScript and SQL Stored Procedure.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Restful Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  • Applied JQuery scripts for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes.  • Involved in developing XML, HTML, and JavaScript for client-side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Contact with different customer for their requirements and Modified code as the customer needs.  • Developed Browse and Checkout modules of the application for different mobile and tablet versions using Bootstrap (HTML, CSS3, SASS and AngularJS).  • Involved in writing and modifying Procedure, Queries, Views and Triggers and calling them from JavaScript.  • Written SQL Queries to interact with databases. Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery, Dreamweaver CS5, AJAX, JSON, RESTful web services, ECLIPSE, MS Office, Internet Explorer, Chrome, Firefox, Windows. Education Bachelor's Skills Html, Javascript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, D3.js, Ionic, Node.js, Typescript, Webpack, Jenkins, Json, Xml, Html5, Sass, Ajax, Tomcat, Web server, Eclipse, jquery, Database, Front End, Angular, Front-End, CSS3, Node, Java, React, UI, User Interface, Angularjs Additional Information Technical skills:    Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, XML, XHTML, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Typescript, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, ES6  Other Technologies: Karma, Jasmine, Webpack, Grunt, Gulp, Bower, Protractor, Mocha, Agile methodologies, Jenkins, LESS, SASS.  JavaScript Libraries: React.js, Angular.js, Polymer.js, Backbone.js, Node.js,D3.js, Express.js, Ionic  IDE's and Tools: Eclipse IDE/3.X, HTTP web server, Apache Tomcat server 7.0.63, Sublime, VScode, Bracket.  Database: PL/SQL(oracle), MySQL, MSSQL  Operating System: Windows NT4.0 XP/, LINUX, MAC OS X