Web Developer/Designer <span class="hl">Web</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Designer Developer & Designer Portland, OR Work Experience Web Developer/Designer HK Electrical Engineers - Vancouver, WA 2019 to 2019 hkeng.com  HK Electrical Engineers came to me with a need to redesign their outdated website. Originally built on flash 15 years ago, it needed a complete facelift while offering easy updating through Wordpress and One Drive Web Developer/Designer Bridge City Ballroom Dance - Vancouver, WA 2019 to 2019 bcballroomdance.com  Bridge City Ballroom Dane is a dance company. The owner wanted to expand her target audience from hear-say and business cards to the web along with having a calendar for upcoming dances. Graphic Designer Capture Those Travelers, LLC - Vancouver, WA 2018 to 2019 • Daily designs for hotel keycard advertisements and local businesses with focus on marketing strategy.  • Highly researched and revised logo design with creative guidelines.  • Extensive branding including: business cards, letterheads, email signatures, apparel, an a concept website. Graphic Design / Web Developer JGarloff Design - Ashland, OR 2017 to 2018 • Designed, Developed and Coded a highly unique and custom e-commerce website that reflects the high quality products of JGarloff Design.  • Increased audience, traffic and sales through outstanding marketing. Graphic Designer Freelance/Self employed 2014 to 2018 • Designed and implemented prosperous branding and marketing values.   • Successfully designed highly researched and explored logo concepts that  innovate and stand out from the crowd.  • Experienced use with Typography, Design, Grids and Color Theory. Web Developer / Designer Freelance/Self employed 2013 to 2018 • Fluent and extensive experience in HTML, CSS, Sass, PHP, Laravel, Javascript, Node, JQuery, Perl, MYSQL, Lemonstand, Vue.js, React and WordPress.  • Responsible for sketching, wire-framing, designing, prototyping, developing,  version control, assets, hosting and successful launch of client website.  • Successful promotion of brand and company with increase of profits and  traffic. Graphic Designer / Web Developer clever.ly - Medford, OR 2016 to 2017 • Extensive work using Vue.js, Express and Less.  • Successfully developed their home website and reported an increase of  traffic and sales. Developer Shasta Networks - Ashland, OR 2014 to 2016 • Worked directly with President and Code Engineers integrating new healthcare information systems into company’s network.  • Coded a firewall for multiple servers using Perl and Bash.  • Daily use and maintenance of servers through the terminal. Education Graphic Design, Web Development Udemey - www.udemey.com 2017 to 2018 Graphic Design Skill Share - www.skillshare.com 2017 to 2018 4 Year in Graphic Design, Computer Science Rogue Community College - Medford, OR 2014 to 2018 Web Development Code School - www.codeschool.com 2015 to 2017 Skills Adobe Illustrator (4 years), Adobe Photoshop (8 years), Adobe Indesign (4 years), Javascript (6 years), PHP (4 years), Wordpress (6 years), HTML / CSS (8 years), Graphic Design, Typography, Wordpress Development (4 years), jQuery Links https://rory-dwyer.com http://@simpliiiDesign Additional Information SOFT SKILLS:    -Teamwork  -Communication  -Productivity  -Organization