Lead Database Administrator/Developer Lead <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Developer Lead Database Administrator/Developer - Department of Housing and Urban Development Bowie, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Database Administrator/Developer Department of Housing and Urban Development 2017 to Present * Collaborate with a team of diverse and multifaceted database administrators including daily and routine operations, engineering projects, and maintenance of Oracle, SQL servers and Sybase Database Systems.  * Effectively gather requirements for business and technical design, development, and testing implementation to better write reliable and efficient code.  * Successfully perform database monitoring and tuning including effective use of database tools including query analyzer.  * Ensure proper operational activities including backups and restores, troubleshooting of applications, and moves, adds, and changes.  * Audit, modify, and amend data in systems utilizing SQL commands, bulk import, and manual-editing.  * Organize logistics with regard to database changes necessary for data conversion, tool configuration, data refresh migration, and other initiatives for large application development projects.  * Configure, manage & upgraded Windows Servers 2008 R2, 2012 R2 and 2016 specifically as it relates to MS SQL Server installations and mission critical systems.  SELECT ACCOMPLISHMENTS  * Organized a successful transition from legacy system to new Cloud systems with minimal disruption to the business.  * Eliminated months of production server issues by systematically troubleshooting and resolving the problem with no further downtime.  * Reduced the deployment downtown by recommending incremental backup procedures in order to expedite Production code deploys.  * Improved the release process by implementing and adapting the Agile software development methodology therefore; Instead of deploying once a year, we combined applications code and are deploying in small batches and as often as possible. Production Support Database Administrator Citi Group 2016 to 2017 * Effectively oversaw a team of six production support analysts, developers and administrators including delegating workload, scheduling, and evaluations effectively providing assistance to end users.  * Managed production, processes, and job amends and corrections to ensure all SLAs were met.  * Successfully identified processing deficiencies while driving automation techniques effectively increasing workflow efficiency and maximizing operations.  * Collaborated directly with a diverse and multifaceted team to ensure minimal downtime of implemented systems with full responsibility for 24/7 application support. Oracle Database Administrator SELECT ACCOMPLISHMENTS 2014 to 2015 * Reduced bill cycle turnaround time by one day for billing department while creating statistical scorecards for bill cycle run times.  * Improved vital processing jobs by reducing process duration by 60%.  Oracle Database Administrator Citi Group: 2014-2015  * Managed core database administration activities enterprise-wide including Oracle database configuration, and infrastructure.  * Successfully administered policy and best practices for all database systems including logical and physical designs, maintenance, backup, and recovery.  * Effectively drove day to day and routine support, troubleshooting of issues, and backup and recovery.  * Created and managed roles and profiles including granting, revoking, and updating user access to Oracle databases. Database Administrator University of Maryland, University College 2012 to 2014 * Collaborated with a team of six database administrators in an effort to drive daily operational support including database installation, management, and daily support activities.  * Oversaw management for database design, structure, data integrity, and delivery of data services for multiple systems.  * Implemented improvements in data management for the IT department ensuring compliance of database policies and procedures.  * Analyzed database security audit reporting for database access and SOX compliance.  * Created indexes ensuring optimum database performance and data loading to better manage disk space and optimized disk I/O.  * Completed database restores and recovery operations including database refreshes of production data to better test and develop databases to ensure all are in sync after restoration. Education Bachelor's Degree in BiologyChem / Computer Science Bowie State University Skills Databases (8 years), Database Administration (8 years), Database Development (6 years), DBA, ETL, Oracle Dba, Sql Dba, Sql Server, Ssis