Scrum Master Scrum Master Scrum Master Richmond, VA Work Experience Scrum Master Quest Technologies - Washington, DC October 2015 to April 2019 Responsibilities:  Organize and facilitate Scrum ceremonies and backlog refinement under minimal supervision  • Champion Agile software development best practices, acting as a coach to the Scrum teams  • Support the Product Owner in grooming and maintaining the product backlog  • Track and communicate team status and progress via burnup and burndown charts, as well as other information radiators, to the team, management, and stakeholders ¬ ensuring it accurately reflects current state  • Take responsibility for managing dependencies between the Scrum team and others, collaborating within the Scrum Master network ¬ especially with regard to items necessary for product release  • Demonstrate sense of urgency and responsiveness to complete work and solve problems, with a strong drive to persevere when faced with ambiguity  • Proactively remove or escalate roadblocks to allow team progress  • Maintains relevant metrics to help the team monitor their performance  • Encourages continual improvement in Engineering practices to improve code quality and delivery  • Coordinates timely response and support to production line customer issues, when escalated Oracle Database Administrator/ Scrum Master Prudential - Richmond, VA June 2013 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Ensured the team remained focused on continuously delivering working products  • Track the teams process and made sure the agile process was being followed  • Worked with team members to rid of any impediments and keep progress continuous by escalating issues and removing outside barriers  • Developed sprint plans and tracked and monitored the status of completion  • Facilitating daily stand-ups, sprint planning, backlog grooming, and retrospective meetings  • Updated the metrics to reflect accurate status of work being completed  • Personality to coordinate with teams members with different backgrounds while using different forms of communication  • Installed, configured, and maintained Oracle 10g and 11gR2 on Linux and also Upgraded from Oracle 10g to 11g.  • Extensive Experience with RMAN Backups, Hot Backups and Logical Backups.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch".  • Performance tuning of the database - SQL Tuning, Used Tuning utilities like STATSPACK, TKPROF  • Experienced in configuration of ASM for RAC and NON- RAC environments.  • Construction of Catalog databases and developed scripts to perform Backups of Large Databases to fit the backup window using RMAN.  • Supported & maintained the Production/Development databases on various servers  • Extensively worked on setting up auditing in many databases we supported  • Managing Database Structure and Storage Allocation  • Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 12c Grid Control. Junior Oracle Database Administrator Time Warner Cable - Richmond, VA May 2012 to June 2013 • Implement Grid based monitoring solution for large Databases and Installation of Cluster ware, configuring public, private and VIP.  • Extensively worked in various areas of Data guard i.e. Installation, Recovery, RTA (Real Time Apply), Patching, Tuning, Switchover, Switchback and Failover.  • Implemented and configured 11g grid control on RHEL.  • Configured Oracle Streams on Oracle 11g, 10g databases for data replication and monitored them using Grid Control.  • Automated the Data Replication process using Materialized Views for reporting databases.  • Used Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 11g Grid Control for monitoring multiple database and notification of database alerts, and configured EM agents on multiple database servers.  • Maintenance of Oracle 11gR2 Real Application Cluster (RAC) Database for High Availability, Scalability and Performance by determining the best Cluster architecture, choosing the best hardware configuration for Oracle RAC.  • Successful in installation/maintenance of Physical Standby database using Oracle Data Guard for Oracle 11.2.0.3 and Oracle 10.2.0.5 RAC databases.  • Implemented switchovers on primary and standby databases as a part of planned maintenance activities.  • Used TOAD for database management.  • Made optimal use of Oracle Support in resolving the SRs. Education Virginia Commomwealth University - Richmond, VA August 2013 to Present Skills Oracle, Sql, Linux, Sun, Ux, Rman, Hp-ux, Rdbms, Oem, Loader, Agile Scrum, Jira, Scrum Master, CSM, Scrum Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES:    Tools and Utilites:  RMAN, OEM, SQL*Loader, EXP, IMP, Data pump, TOAD, Oracle SQL Developer.    RDBMS:  Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g, 12c    Operating Systems:  HP-UX 10.x, 11.x, 12c, Sun RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x.Linux Enterprise