Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> sql server database administrator Houston, TX DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR  Over five years of experience in database management systems administration, expert at developing and maintaining database, with strong background of working on high-end servers. I would like to establish a fulfilling, proactive career and assume every increasing responsibility in the course of time. Work Experience Database Administrator Intercontinental Registry - Lagos, GU December 2008 to August 2011 Responsibilities  Key responsibilities.  Planning, Development:  Involved in analyzing business requirements, developing and designing data models,  • Provided and designed DB tools to assist in the database management, transactions and processing environments.  • Assessed and executed implementing of new technologies.  • Worked in coordination with company developers and project managers.  • Developed training programs and trained technical support and applications personnel to utilize on-line databases environment process.    Technical Support:  Monitored performance and capacity to provide resolutions to system problems,  • Provided technical support for SQL database environment by overseeing databases development and organization.  • Communicated regularly with staff to ensure smooth flow of information from SQL database.  • Created database with back-up system.    Maintenance:  • Monitored data availability for faster query response by user.  • Designed conceptual schema as per the client needs.  • Looked after the security of company data from external access and threats.  • Tested and installed latest versions of Database Management Systems in firm.  • Granted access to users as per their needs and requirements.    Skills Used  sql server management studio,visual studio Education bsc in computer science lagos state university - Lagos, GU Skills SQL, Microsoft PowerPoint, Windows XP, Microsoft office, Assembly Language, Microsoft Windows 7, C, C#, Visual basic and java programming ,Microprocessors ,Hardware/Systems Design, Digital Electronics, System organization, Microsoft excel.