Senior Oracle Database Administrator Senior Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Oracle Database Administrator - United Health group Hyattsville, MD I am an accomplished and seasoned professional Oracle Database Administrator and IT security expert with 8+ years of extensive knowledge and proficiency in Oracle database administration. I have worked on very large production databases, performing various DBA roles across a multitude of platforms (LINUX, Solaris, UNIX, and Windows) in production, development and testing environments. I am an enthusiastic, proactive team player who is fast at picking up new technology with great attention to detail as well as great communication / documentation skills. With strong aptitude to analyze and resolve problems, I have a well-honed ability to adapt and thrive in a dynamic fast paced and challenging work environment. I have the ability to work in versatile environments, whether it would be single or team-based roles with limited direction. I can proficiently articulate technical concepts to a variety of technical and non-technical audiences using both written and verbal communications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Oracle Database Administrator United Health group - Reston, VA January 2016 to Present • Provide day-to-day support of Oracle 11.2.0.4 and 12.2.0.1.0 databases as part of the database team.  • Configuring the Database in Archive log mode and take backups incremental, full backup and hot backup for different database 10g, 11g, 12c in the following environments TEST, DEVELOPMENT, PRODUCTION using RMAN script and export/import data pump.  • Participated in the database upgrade from Oracle 7 to Oracle 8, and provided support for Oracle upgrade, application installation and operation, and database implementation at the Post.  • Installed Oracle software and implemented database and applications on the server. Responsible for monitoring and troubleshooting the database environment.  • Analyze the database performance and performed database performance tuning.  • Document database procedures and responsible for organizing and instructing trainings for installer to perform upgrade oracle database and application from Oracle 7 to 8.  • Developed and delivered Oracle 10g and 11g training around the world • Increased customer service rating for my department by over 40% • Provided architecture design and implemented the all production database replication, backup and contingency recovery strategies for all OLTP Data Warehouse databases in the company.  • Designed and implemented disaster recovery plan using standby databases with Dataguard. Oracle Database Administrator Weatherford laboratories - Houston, TX February 2014 to December 2016 • Provided day-to-day support for Oracle 11.2.0.4 databases in 24/7 production environment on Red Hat Enterprise Linux servers, as well as Microsoft SQL Server 2012 databases on Windows Server 2012. Oversee data analysis and database management for Oracle systems including applications upgrades.  • Developed database structure, implement applications, enhance system and ensure security.  • Designed scripts and develop tools to automate periodic task and improve monitoring of system.  • Configured Oracle Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) to encrypt sensitive data such as customer's personal and payment information.  • Provided and maintained high availability and disaster recovery using Oracle Data Guard.  • Monitored space utilization and optimized performance of Oracle 11g databases using Oracle Enterprise Manager.  • Enforced business rules and maintained data integrity via the use of constraints using DDL statements.  • Performed bulk load into databases SQL Loader.  • Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/ PSU application) using Opatch utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances Database Administrator Walmart - Washington, DC January 2011 to May 2014 • Provided day-to-day support for Oracle 10g and 11g databases in test, development, and production environments on UNIX servers. Created, reviewed and implemented maintenance plans on production servers.  • Installed SQL Server 2005 for new servers as well as in-place upgrades to 2005 on 2000 servers.  • Created and maintained documentation for DBA standard operating procedures.  • Supported clustered and non-clustered environments as well as log shipping for disaster recovery.  • System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodology for designing, analysis, development and implementation • Implemented cold backups and hot backups for production and development environments.  • Performed extensive follow-up procedures to obtain, update, and validate information; maintained an exceptionally high accuracy rate through data verification, attention to detail, and regular quality control checks.  • Coordinated the migration of project information from an existing system to new database, enabling company to produce proposals and other project-related documentation more efficiently.  • Managed database security by creating, assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users, and auditing user activity.  • Planned, implemented and monitored backup and recovery strategies for production databases using RMAN.  • Conduct Data modeling using tools like SQL Developer • Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/ PSU application) using Opatch utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances.  • Resolved Oracle related errors/issues assigned through Remedy ticketing system.  • Configured Oracle databases using DBCA Education Associate's degree University of Maryland Skills Change management (Less than 1 year), Data integration (Less than 1 year), Database (8 years), databases (8 years), Ddl (2 years), Encryption (2 years), Etl (Less than 1 year), Excel (Less than 1 year), Extract, transform, and load (Less than 1 year), Integration (Less than 1 year), Integrator (Less than 1 year), Linux (2 years), Ms sql server (6 years), Oracle (8 years), performance tuning. (3 years), Rman (6 years), security. (6 years), Sops (Less than 1 year), Sql (6 years), Sql server (6 years), Oracle Dba, Sql Database, DBA, Sql Dba