Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Booz Allen Hamilton Los Angeles, CA • An IT professional with 8 years of experience in the area of Database Technology. I have experience in designing, developing, managing and troubleshooting Databases.  • I have managed thousands of databases across Development, TEST, QAT and PROD environments using command line and Oracle GUI tools like TOAD and Enterprise Manager Cloud 12c.  • Configured Oracle Fusion Middleware, SOA to run Oracle EBS applications  • Installing Oracle Golden gate on RHEL and setup table level replication as well as DDL replication too.  • Evaluated Oracle 11gR2 Golden Gate for future purposes that is for reducing the complexity involved in Oracle Streams.  • Set up Active Dataguard Configurations for oracle database 11.2.0.3 for databases with sizes ranging from 500GB to 30TB.  • Designed GoldenGate configuration for databases & implemented filters with rules to meet the business usage which will reduce load on the production databases for better performance with replication on multiple sites.  • Migrated and upgraded Oracle 11gR2 Databases from Sun Solaris 10 to Red hat Linux 5 using Goldengate.  • Worked on SQL Tuning and how to use the available tools outside of Oracle Enterprise Manager.  • Worked on Performance Tuning, identifying large objects, analyze those objects and recommend changes to improve performance.  • Updated MVIEWS and test code to improve performance.  • Installed and Administered Oracle 11g & 10g RAC software with ASM.  • Had fixed several performance tuning issues which relates to RAC & standalone databases by recommending better solutions that could save cost, virtualization, and resources.  • Manage large complex Oracle RAC clusters supporting numerous applications.  • Installed Oracle 11g RAC and Upgrading Oracle 10g RAC databases.  • Upgraded databases from 11g to 12c.  • Implemented fast start failover on databases and configuring disaster recovery site using dataguard. Also proficient with new 11g features such as Active Dataguard and Snapshot standby database.  • Implemented & Managed Physical Standby and even Configured Automatic Storage Management (ASM).  • Applying Patch set, Critical Patch Update (CPU)/Patch Set Update (PSU) and One-off Patches using OPatch and run Installer under UNIX and Windows.  • Performance Tuning of Oracle database using OEM , SQL analyzer , Stats pack, AWR, ADDM, ASH, RDA, Explain plan, TKPROF, SQL TRACE and Ordebug.  • Data transferring using Export/Import utilities and SQL*Loader.  • Expertise in creating and maintaining databases to Oracle Optimal Flexible Architecture (OFA) standards in very large scale database environment (VLDB) and mission critical OLTP and DSS systems.  • Performed database tuning by using various tools such as ADDM (Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor) from AWR (Automatic Workload Repository), OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager) and STATSPACK.  • Performed SQL Tuning using Explain Plan, TKPROF with SQL trace and STA(SQL Tuning Advisor).Coordinated with System administrators, application developers and other DBAs.  • Performance Tuning i.e. tuning applications, shared pool, I/O distribution, rollback segments, buffer cache, redo mechanisms  • Installed Oracle 10g,11g RAC software with ASM & ACFS File systems  • Resolved database network problems using Oracle Net Configuration Assistant, Oracle Net Manager, Netstat and ping utility.  • Involved in writing stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers in PL/SQL to interface application with database system. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Booz Allen Hamilton - Herndon, VA October 2018 to Present • Support 4 databases in multiple SDLC environments running on both LINUX and WINDOWS platforms  • Planning, Implementing and Validating various versions of Oracle Databases to 18c Release & upgrades on all the environments (in a procedural approach Dev, Test, Stage, QA and Production) concept for Oracle 12c upgrades.  • Configured Dataguard for disaster recovery  • Upgrade/Migration of Databases from Oracle 11.2.0.2 to 12.1.0.2  • Implemented RMAN backup script to be utilized on PROD  • Worked with Oracle Fusion Middleware to run Oracle EBS applications  • Monitored and managed Oracle Federal Financial applications  • Performed UPGRADES and PATCHING on application databases  • Supported databeses on a 2-node RAC environment using OCFS II File system  • Managing Oracle Financial Application database  • Administering Oracle WebLogic and SOA Suite    • Work with System Admin and Network team to configure and implement software and hardware upgrades  • Cloning and refreshing DTF environment/application home  • Performed October and April quarterly patch in DEV environment and moved patch to PROD Database Administrator Huntington National Bank - Columbus, OH January 2016 to September 2018 • Worked in an environment comprising 200+ databases with the larger databases ranging about 5TB in size.  • Planning, Implementing and Validating various versions of Oracle Databases to 12c Release & upgrades on all the environments (in a procedural approach Dev, Test, Stage, QA and Production) also Planning of back out procedures like downgrades/building parallel environments and also working on proof of concept for Oracle 12c upgrades.  • Installed and Configured Oracle 11g (3 node RAC) CRS using ASM, 11.2.0.3 RAC (2 node cluster) using GI setup.  • Upgrade/Migration of Databases from Oracle 11.2.0.2 to 12.1.0.2  • Implemented ASM on RAC and stand-alone databases. Managing disks and disk groups with ASM  • Implemented Goldengate unidirectional replication on RAC using ACFS file system.  • Implemented 12c Grid control (Multi OMS architecture) on 11.2.0.3 database, Standby OMS architecture is under progress.  • Monitored Goldengate using 12c Goldengate Plugin and also Goldengate Director and shell scripts for alerting GG process down alerts.  • Performed periodic refreshing/cloning of production databases to development & testing databases using RMAN Duplicate database.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Experience in handling large databases upto 5TB in size and largest table of size 60GB with 145 million records.  • Monitoring production database and provide detailed analysis on Long running, Resource consuming SQLs, Wait events, Locks and Alert log file.  • Providing suggestion and workaround to Tune the Bad Performing SQL by giving Index and Stats fix with the help of Execution plan and Predications  • Monitoring and working in Oracle Golden Gate support activities like new configuration, deployment on existing configuration and Release activities.  • Managing Golden Gate abended, stopped process, errors, alerts and lag alert using golden gate director.  • Implemented and maintained 12c multitenant architecture using container and pluggable databases and performed conversion of non-container databases to pluggable databases  • Installation, Configuration of ASM, RAC databases, Adding Services and maintaining GRID control.  • Migrated databases from 9i and 10g to 11g R2 using utilities like export/import, datapump and transportable tablespace.  • Implemented replication on databases using and Golden gate between homogeneous and heterogeneous databases.  • Performed replication between databases using Materialized Views and DB links from a remote database.  • Successfully performed installation, setup and creation of Primary & Standby database using dataguard to deliver no data loss with maximum availability mode.  • Worked closely with application teams for rolling application.  • Performance tuning of Oracle instances  • Extensively worked on complete & incomplete recoveries of the databases including Point in time recovery (PITR) and Tablespace point in time recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN utility.  • Involved in performing upgradation from Oracle 9i, 10g to Oracle 11.2.0.3 RAC database.  • Applied PSU Patches (10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4) as a part of maintenance activity.  • Extensively used Datapump, conventional export/import utilities for loading data to & from databases, logical backups and migration of databases.  • Fixed various database performance issues using Automated Workload Repository (AWR) and Automatic Database Diagnostics Monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  • Achieved optimal performance tuning by using explain plan, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE, TKPROF utilities.  • Installation, configuration and maintenance of Physical Standby using OracleData Guard for Disaster recovery process on Oracle 11g, 10g.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Planned database backups (operating system, full/partial backups, and export/import) using various types of backups and designed the backup methodology for the organization..  • Performed other Oracle DBA responsibilities performance tuning, monitoring tablespaces, monitoring users, etc. as well as much problem solving.  • Designed Logical and physical database for business transaction functionality.  • Provide production support for the deployed project till it is stabilized.  • Collaborated with the UNIX system Administrator to configure any software and hardware requirements that will function with the Oracle Database  • Refreshing development/test database from production using Export/Import & RMAN backups.  • Creating database objects Tablespaces, Application Users, Database schemas, profiles, granting privileges and roles, and creating database links. Oracle Database Administrator Coca Cola - Atlanta, GA March 2011 to December 2015 • Successfully installed and configured Oracle 11.1.0.7, Oracle 10.2.0.5 databases on AIX platforms.  • Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10gGrid Control.  • Loading data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implementing Datapump, conventionalexport/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for re-organizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  • Used import/export utilities for cloning/migration of small sized databasesand Datapump import/export to move data between 10g and 10g/11g environments.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Backup/Recovery - Write Rman Backup script as required. Restore backupset to Local server from Tape. Recover database to point-in-time on different host. Restore tables from Old backup. Recover corrupted Blocks from Rman backup. Restore backup of 10g on 11g. Involved in Corporate DR exercise. Implement Flashback features. Used backup-based duplication method for 11R2 databases.  • Apply in-place/out-of-place PSU Patch in 11R2. Install bug fix patch.  • Tuning Database using AWR/ADDM/SQL trace. Hands on Various Tuning Advisors. Migrate SQL plans & statistics from QA to PROD. Schedule stats Job using DBMS_SCHEDULER. Used AWRSQL/SQL tuning package. Tune various SQL's. Provide Primary investigation on Performance issue to application team in minimal time. Troubleshoot/mitigate various wait events in DB. Tuning of RAC instances and Database.  • Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g along with Recyclebin for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  • Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  • Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  • Performed Database upgrade from Oracle 10g (9.2.0.7) to Oracle 10g (10.2.0.5) and to Oracle 11g (11.1.0.7) RAC database.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Detect corrupted blocks by using DBVERIFY utility.  • Participated in Disaster Recovery Drills, documented database and application validation steps.  • Used Automatic Workload Repository (AWR) & Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) in RAC for Performance Tuning.  • Implemented table partitioning to improve performance and data management.  • Implemented Security through Virtual Private Database and Fine grained Auditing.  • Developed RMAN scripts for database backup and recovery.  • Designed and implemented the database servers for two new data centers.  • Performance Tuning of Databases, Oracle instances, and Applications. Finding Performance bottlenecks using EXPLAINPLAN, SQLTRACE, TKPROF, AWR, and ADDM.  • Created users, roles and granted privileges according to the business requirements  • Generated scripts for daily maintenance activity like analyzing the tables/indexes, monitoring their growth rate, monitoring the effective use of SGA etc.  • Perform production system problem analysis and recommend corrective measures in a timely manner.  • Installed ASM environment and migrated databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Used TOAD for database management.  • Made optimal use of Oracle Support inresolving the SRs.  • 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration. Education BA Political Science George Washington University - Washington, DC 2010 Skills Aix (4 years), Checkpoint (Less than 1 year), Cisco (Less than 1 year), Database (8 years), databases (8 years), Linux (Less than 1 year), Loader (4 years), Oem (7 years), Oracle (8 years), Oracle 10g (4 years), Rman (8 years), Solaris (Less than 1 year), Sql (7 years), Unix (2 years), virtualization (Less than 1 year), Vmware (Less than 1 year), Vpn (Less than 1 year), Oracle Dba, DBA