SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Server Database Administrator - FEDERAL RESERVE BANK Fort Worth, TX A pioneering and goal-oriented IT professional offering 6+ years of overall IT experience in System Analysis, Design, Development and Support which includes 6years' specialization in SQL Server database administration, development for very large complex databases in SQL Server Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator FEDERAL RESERVE BANK February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Install and configure new Microsoft SQL Server instances, including Always On availability groups and failover clustering.  ? Review, analyze, and evaluate business systems and user needs by facilitating brainstorming sessions with Federal Govt stakeholders.  ? Highly skilled at database design, installations, conversions Responsible for database backup and recovery procedures, access security and database integrity, physical data storage design and data storage management  ? Participates in Database Management System selection and maintains database performance } Engage in ongoing process improvement  ? Experienced in Database Performance, Maintenance and Development to perform the following: * Database management including backups, recovery and maintenance * Database management for export, import and mass data loads * Analyzes and generation of all tables and index statistics * Monitoring and resolving data lock issues * Check all statistics related to memory, locks, I/O, database response time, wait events, top sessions and background processes * On-Line Transaction Processing (OLTP) to capture, validate and store large amounts of transactions * Create indexes to achieve critical dataset response time for time sensitive reports.  ? Install SQL Server service packs and updates.  ? Configure and manage SQL Security settings.  ? Make system design recommendations according to Microsoft SQL Server best practices. } Manage database backup & recovery & DR planning in collaboration with IT manager and System Engineer.  ? Create, modify, and optimize SQL Server Agent jobs and maintenance plans. } Proactively monitor SQL Server maintenance tasks, troubleshoot failed jobs and resolve issues in a timely manner SQL Server Database Administrator OMNITRACS LLC - Dallas, TX March 2015 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Worked extensively in Query Analyzer and Profiler for tuning queries using variable for characteristics and query costs.  ? Designed and implemented comprehensive Backup plan and disaster recovery strategies.  ? Designed and created databases, tables, views, store procedures and triggers.  ? Tested and Implemented procedures to detect poor database performance, collecting required information and root cause analysis  ? Reviewed SQL Server Agent jobs and take corrective actions for failed jobs  ? Enforce Database Security by Managing user privileges and efficient resource management by assigning profiles to users.  ? Experience working in a 24* 7 environment rotating on call duties every other week  ? Responsible for performing database monitoring and working with development teams throughout the project lifecycle on recommendations on database index optimization and SQL query design  ? Monitored and modified Performance using execution plans and Index tuning.  ? Responsible for all aspects of database administration for SQL Server databases including problem solving, configuration, and implementation efforts for large and / or complex projects with an emphasis in operation excellence and continuous improvement of database related processes and procedures.  ? Experience in managing the internal and external SQL Server database security. Assigning database users to windows groups and providing them with just the access needed  ? Experience with database monitoring tools such as SQL Sentry, Quest, FogLight, and spotlight  ? Strong experience working on always on, clustered and mirrored environments  ? Use JIRA to create tickets and track the lifecycle of processes and Agile projects.  ? Worked extensively with development in the release of new products as well as product upgrades  ? Responsible for on-going monitoring, maintenance, tuning, backups, and recovery of SQL databases ensuring high levels of data available and database performance.  ? Tunes and optimizes SQL Statements, Instance Parameters, and Data Storage, including the identification of performance related issues.  ? Monitor and support ticketing systems (Sales Force) for new work assignments.  ? Manages and maintains all production and non-production databases.  ? Updated database systems by reviewing, planning, testing and installing database security patches and service packs.  ? Responsible for space requirement calculations and expansion of storage LUNS for production and pre-production environments  ? Create SQL server databases, tables, DB objects constraints, indexes, and triggers  ? Review SQL Server Always On system status and remediated issues related to high queue sizes and latency  ? Performed Database Refreshes with production data for practice deployments  ? Experience with clustered SQL server and Always on installs and configurations  ? Experience in migrating over 15 databases to new servers and hardware  ? Experience with MSSQL High Availability, Always On and Replication  ? Maintained continuous documentation on various issues faced during the execution of assigned tasks and the solutions to those problems  ? Experience with automated installs of SQL server and building Availability groups from scratch. SQL Database Administrator Support Nationstar Mortgage LLC - Lewisville, TX May 2011 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Utilizing various SQL Server Constraints (Primary Keys, Foreign Keys, Defaults, Unique keys and Check) to ensure data integrity.  ? Extensive use of T-SQL in writing Stored Procedures, Triggers, Tables, User Defined Functions, Views and Indexes.  ? Troubleshooting problems and answering questions, installing upgrades and patches, training users, and writing technical documentation.  ? Conducting weekly meetings with our ERP team, development and QA team, and End Users to ensure performance efficiency and to discuss our open requests.  ? Liaising between the business and technical resources.  ? Created physical database model from logical database model using ERStudio and applied DDL on development database.  ? Participate in testing to ensure the systems' functionality is in line with the requirements.  ? Use Sales Force to manage ticketing queue for work related to SQL server maintenance  ? Use JIRA to create tickets and track the lifecycle of processes and Agile projects.  ? Creating ad-hoc queries using T-SQL in SSMS/Jdeveloper to assist in supporting users and everyday tasks.  ? Build complex T-SQL queries using concepts like joins, case statements and functions to retrieve and analyze data from multiple tables in the database.  ? Participated on 24 X 7 on call support and familiar with change management process.  ? Responsible for requirement capturing and modeling using Use case diagrams, Class diagrams created with Microsoft Visio.  ? Acting as an integral part of the cross-functional team that collaborated with the third party vendors to upgrade to SQL 2016 which is set to go live in early 2017.  ? Generate test scripts and carrying out testing on SQL modules to validate configuration parameters. Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Accounting in Accounting Middle Tennessee State University - Murfreesboro, TN Skills .NET (Less than 1 year), Analyzer (2 years), Microsoft Access (Less than 1 year), MS SQL SERVER (7 years), Nexus (Less than 1 year), R2 (Less than 1 year), RDBMS (Less than 1 year), SAP (Less than 1 year), Software Development (Less than 1 year), SQL (7 years), SQL Server (7 years), STRUCTURED SOFTWARE (Less than 1 year), T-SQL (3 years), Visual Studio (Less than 1 year), Windows Server 2003 (Less than 1 year), DBA, Sql Dba Additional Information ? 6+ years of specialization in SQL Server database administration activities like Installation, Configuration, Database design, Backup & Recovery, Performance tuning and Query Optimization, Data Transformation Services and Database Security.  ? 6+ years of experience in logical and physical database design and writing T-SQL query and stored procedure.  ? Experience in installation and configuration of High Availability (HA) and Disaster Recovery (DR) solutions like SQL Server clustering, log shipping, database mirroring, always on, and replication.  ? Experience in installation and configuration of SQL Server 2005, 2008 and 2012.  ? Experience in upgrade and data center migration of SQL Server instances  ? Working knowledge of Windows Server Administration, SharePoint Service, Active Directory, Network and SAN.  ? Knowledge and work experience in RDBMS concepts like Views, Triggers, Stored Procedures, Indexes, and Constraints.  ? Working knowledge of tracking software like Extra View, Salesforce, and JIRA.  ? Excellent communication, planning, organizing, and problem-solving skills with ability to work independently as well as effective collaboration skills with all levels of management, both internal and external in a team environment.  ? Experience in SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS).  ? Experience in SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  ? Experience in SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS).    TECHNICAL SKILLS:    RDBMS: MSSQL (2005, 2008, 2012, 2014, 2016) Microsoft Access Programming Language: T-SQL  Operating System:  Windows Server 2003/2008/2008 R2/2012 R2    Software Development/Tools:  SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Profiler, SQL Nexus, HP Quality Center, Visual Studio, PssDiag, PerfMon Analyzer,