Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Uber Technologies Inc Greenbelt, MD I'm an accomplished certified ORACLE Database Administrator and IT expert with over seven years of  experience with extensive knowledge and proficiency in database design, monitoring & performance  tuning, migration, upgrades, backup & recovery, cloning, replication, and security implementations of  Oracle RDBMS. I am also skilled with an assortment of technologies including Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c, 18c  and MS SQL Server. I possess an exceptional analytical, verbal, written and organizational abilities. I'm a  proven team player with motivational style, a solid reputation for building and retaining highly motivated  teams and development of innovative solutions. I am an achiever who can successfully manage multiple  priorities and perform extensively under pressure. I'm a proactive learner willing to update my skills with  new technologies in other to improve my productivity in the workplace. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Uber Technologies Inc November 2017 to Present • Constructing database security policy using passwords, privileges, user profiles, Transparent  Data Encryption(TDE) to encrypt tables and tablespaces; implemented auditing policies as well as data redaction and data masking.  • Designing backup strategies following company SLA; execution of backup schedule for both  physical and logical backups using Rman and Datapump utilities respectively. Used block  change tracking (BCT), reducing backup time from 5hrs down to 45mins. Resolved space issues with backup optimization, reducing storage costs by 20%.  • Upgrading databases from 11g to 12c.  • Supporting daily administration, monitoring, tuning, and troubleshooting on single instance on UNIX/Linux ( Database sizes range 89GB to 107TB).  • Monitoring AWR, ADDM, ASH, Alert log, dynamic performance views, DBMS_STATS, Trace  Files, System Event Logs for unusual events and took appropriate action according to company  policies of incident reports.  • Implementing table and index partitioning and materialized views to minimize DB time, increase  disk load balancing, improve query speed and enable faster parallel query.  • Cloning schemas, objects and databases on new server using exports from 11g database and imported in 12g using DATA PUMP.  • Applied Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/ PSU application) using Opatch utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances  • Implementing, tuning and maintaining Oracle database using OEM.  • Capacity planning to meet the demands of the dynamic aspects of storage and memory for the databases.  • Reconciled functional and technical problems through research and training workshops, achieving a 65% increase in satisfaction rate of database end users.  • Developing Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for data extraction and weekly activity  report. Database Administrator / Developer SYSCO March 2015 to October 2017 • Installed and configured Oracle 10g, 11g servers and created databases in Linux environments.  • Researched, tested, and made recommendations of data validation tools.  • Established and implemented backup/recovery and patch scheduling as well as exported and imported databases frequently into the development and test environments and for archiving  purposes.  • Generated shell scripts with developers to automate maintenance and backup jobs.  • Created databases from Entity Relational Diagrams (ERD) in Forward Engineering using UML  (Unified Modeling Language);  • Part of a team that conducted a database migration from 11g and upgrade to 12c using the Oracle  Datapump and DBUA respectively. Cloned databases for testing using RMAN and DATAPUMP  utilities for all database sizes.  • Administering Physical and Standby databases for high availability and disaster recovery  solution (DATA GUARD).  • Expert in working with PL/SQL including Procedures, Functions, Cursors and Triggers.  Providing administrative support and maintenance on Oracle 11g and 12c installations, database  creation, database security, database optimization and tuning.  • Created, tracked, and closed service tickets using REMEDY ticketing system and developed a defect prevention process including but not limited to root cause analysis and corrective action.  • Controlled all databases with high alertness to ensure peak performance, stability and reliability  and availability.  • Configure and manage ASM instances on Oracle 11g and 12c.  • Resolved locking issues, inconsistencies and assisted in batch processes.  • Assisted developers with SQL code troubleshooting as well as tweaked applications, procedures  and SQL when necessary.  • Developed RMAN backup and recovery strategies and procedures  • Performed database patching for bug fixes, and mitigate security vulnerabilities  • Test recovery and support continuity of operations procedures.  • Performed user administration.  • Performed all aspect of database operations and maintenance (O&M)  • 24x7 remote support and on call rotation  NFI Junior DBA NFI March 2012 to January 2015 Active member of a team that championed database migration from 10g to 11g using the Oracle DataPump and DBUA  utilities respectively.  • Performed database Refreshes from production environments using Data Pump IMP/EXP and RMAN duplicate.  • Installed and configured software for Oracle 10g, 11g, on both Windows and LINUX platforms  using Oracle OFA. Also Installed, Administered and Maintained SQL Servers.  • Rewrote and implemented a backup strategy following company SLA; execution of backup  schedule for both physical and logical backups using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities  respectively. I also used block change tracking (BCT) which reduced backup time from seven  hours down to one hour.  • Deployed Database security policy and installation, using passwords, privileges and user  profiles, Used Oracle Transparent Data Encryption to encrypt columns, tables and Tablespaces, I also implemented the "triple A" (AAA) and database auditing policies as well as data redaction.  • Managed database security by creating, assigning appropriate roles & privileges to users  depending on user activity, auditing, & performing other security related tasks including  Transparent Data Encryption. Education Information Technology University of Maryland-University College - Adelphi, MD Present Skills DATABASE, ORACLE, PL/SQL, SQL, ENCRYPTION, RMAN, LINUX, SHELL SCRIPTING, UNIX, UNIX SHELL, ETL, INFORMATICA, BASH, SCRIPTING, SECURITY, CAPACITY PLANNING, PERFORMANCE TUNING, OEM, CLONING, ARCHITECTURE, DBA, Oracle Dba, Sql Server Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/ericnyambabid20760378 Certifications/Licenses OCA Additional Information OCP(In Progess)