DBA/ Database Administrator DBA/<span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> DBA/ Database Administrator - Bridge IT Support Services LLC Woodbridge, VA Work Experience DBA/ Database Administrator Bridge IT Support Services LLC - Reston, VA July 2016 to Present Responsibilities:    • Installing and maintaining SQL Server database systems. Maintaining the database systems includes but is not limited to ensuring successful backups, resolving system issues, monitoring success and failure of automated jobs, monitor system availability, updating system documentation, system and database recovery, etc.  • Strong technical background along with the ability to perform business analysis and write effective documentation and specifications.  • Experience in AGILE methodology, Scrum process and TFS (Team Foundation Server).  • Updating database systems by reviewing, planning, testing and installing database security patches, cumulative updates, and service packs.  • Design, document, and promote security "best practices", policies, standards and protocols as well as documentations for the Disaster Recovery plan.  • Migrating\deploying application code and objects from development/test production environments to AWS.  • Experience working with Azure SQL Database Import and Export Service.  • Experience in deploying SQL Databases in CLOUD AZURE AMAZON.  • Working with development and systems teams to perform application and database tuning.  • In conjunction with development teams, define and maintain database and code standards and naming conventions for the organization to ensure consistency in database and code development.  • Setup and maintenance of appropriate database and application monitoring.  • Providing highly available database and application infrastructure according to Business Continuity requirements using SQL clustering, Always On, etc.  • Evaluating database administration, and database backup and recovery mechanisms and make recommendations as needed.  • Setting up Database Mirroring and Replication on Production servers.  • Worked in Active-Active, Active-Passive Cluster environment as a High availability solution.  • Tuning queries which are running slow using Profiler and DMV by using different Methods in terms of evaluating joins, indexes, updating Statistics and code modifications.  • Checking Database Health by using DBCC Commands and DMVS  • Daily routine DBA tasks like handling user's permissions and space issues on Production and Semi-Production Servers and handling maintenance Jobs.  • Handled monthly\weekly Database Refresh in Dev\QA-Test environment for testing of new Deployments and Build.  • Experience in Managing File Maker Server and FileMaker Pro Databases  • Experience in installing, configuring, creating, and publishing Crystal Reports.  • Provide On-Call support for mission critical applications Junior SQL Server Database Administrator Jittu Horticulture PLC MIDROC Technology Group July 2013 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Installed, configured, monitored and maintained databases in the production, development, and quality assurance\staging environments.  • Customized support for Client's Applications (e.g. Third party supported/In-House Applications etc.) provided and maintaining database objects and structures (e.g. tables, indexes, views, triggers, Functions, Procedures etc.).  • Provided appropriate access to client to have access to their respective needed application schema\objects.  • Developed & maintained scripts, utility jobs or implement needed automation for database maintenance.  • Implemented & managed database clustering, failover.  • Developed, tested & implemented a robust database backup and recovery strategy.  • Conducted root cause analysis for database incidents and problems.  • Participated in designing, testing and implementing an enterprise Disaster Recovery Plan.  • Estimated disk storage requirements for database software, database files & database administration needs.  • Monitored data activities (i.e. database status, logs, space utilization, extents, Checkpoints, locks and long transactions).  • Suggested Application level tuning changes for code, queries, SQL objects which may not be performing up to the optimum database performance standards.  • Performed acceptance testing to verify that database changes perform without adverse consequences.  • Deployed database components to production environment according to change control procedures.  • Complied with standard security-related procedures that are based on established best practices and conformity to company policy and adjusted to accommodate Security Policy.  • Interfaced with other technical support teams to isolate & resolve database related problems.  • Managed databases with MS SQL Cluster (Active/Passive & Active/Active) on Multi Node Cluster up to 6 Node.  • Provided & managed support to Environment of over 350 Database Instances on physical and VM servers.  • Proven ability to handle Database of more than 1 TB in Size.  • Expertise in MSSQL SERVER Database Administration on Global DBA Team that supports databases in six countries.  • Set up and troubleshoot Log Shipping and Replication.  • Created, administered & maintained SQL Server Databases (Production, Development, Test and Staging Environments) for various groups such as Developer, QA, User, and ensure the availability of the database Server in a 24x7 Environment.  • Provide On-Call support for mission critical applications Skills DATA MODELING, DATABASE, MS ACCESS, SQL SERVER, MYSQL