Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Sedgwick CMS Memphis, TN • Over 7 years of strong experience in Oracle database administration on different operating system including SOLARIS, LINUX/UNIX, and WINDOWS.  • Performance tuning of the database - SQL Tuning, Used Tuning utilities like STATSPACK, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, ADDM and Tuning of SGA, distribution of disk I/O, Sizing of tables and indexes  • Expertise in Oracle's Data protection, high availability, and performance technologies such as Oracle RAC, Oracle Data guard, ASM, and Oracle golden gate.  • Experience in administration and tuning of Oracle databases running on Windows and all types of UNIX platforms.  • Experience in Data guard for different types of Standby Databases such as Active for reporting, Physical, Logical, and Snapshot standby on implementation, administration, & performance tuning.  • Experience in implementation, configuration, troubleshooting, and performance tuning of Oracle Goldengate, replication  • between Unidirectional and bidirectional, Databases.  • Experience in Performance Tuning Oracle Databases with respect to all aspects of IT Infrastructure such as Network, OS, Storage, and Application.  • Experience in using various performance tools or utilities like EXPLAIN PLAN, SQLTRACE, TKPROF, STATSPACK, AWR, ASH, and ADDM, and analyzing reports for tuning recommendations.  • Experience in implementing Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control (11g) and Cloud Control (12c) for database monitoring/performance/diagnostics.  • Experience in implementing desired database backup solutions based on environment, affordability, and other key IT Infrastructure aspects. Experience with Oracle RMAN backup utility and in traditional hot (online/cold (offline) backups, Experience in logical backups and Database migration tools such as DATA PUMP, Export/Import, and Transportable Tablespaces.  • Experience in writing/modifying UNIX Shell Scripts for various scenarios and requirements.  • Experience in upgrading Oracle Databases from 10g to 11g & 12c.  • Proficient in SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions, Cursors and Triggers.  • Experience in implementing Oracle Flash-Back Technology and utilizing it for various rollback purposes such as Critical Application bug fixes, Load Testing, and QA Testing.  • Experience in Capacity Planning and Bench Marking.  • Oracle Golden Gate experience with Installation, configuration and troubleshooting of Oracle Golden Gate 11g/12c replication setup across heterogeneous database servers and ensure data synchronization.  • Experience in Performance tuning of Oracle Golden Gate Processes to achieve zero lag times.  • Hands on experience on using of macros, conflict resolution, filtering and transformation, exception handlers and Security.  • Experience with Oracle Data Guard setup, maintenance and troubleshooting for High Availability.  • Experience in performing Backups/Recovery using RMAN, Data pump and Flashback Technologies.  • Experience in Database capacity planning and Bench Marking, monitoring object growth and Storage Management.  • Performed data migration from flat files into an Oracle database using SQL*Loader.  • Experience in performing Cloning and Refresh using RMAN and Data pump.  • Experience in Oracle Advanced Compression techniques.  • Experience in Partitioning Tables, Rebuilding of Indexes, Secure files, DBLINKS, Materialized Views, Store Procedures, Triggers and constraints.  • Demonstrated proficiency in managing Oracle Instance, database storage structure, schema objects, managing tablespaces, Rollback and undo segments, creation of database objects, Data Modeling.  • Experience in defining Users, Roles, Privileges, Auditing to ensure database Security.  • Experience working with database security tools TDE, DB Vault / VPD.  • Experience in applying CPU/PSU patches to various versions of databases with minimum downtime.  • Experience in handling very large databases (VLDB) ranging up to 10T Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Sedgwick CMS - Memphis, TN July 2015 to Present • Installation, configuration, Maintenance and Support of Oracle 11g and 12c (Multitenant and NON-CDB) Databases.  • Migration of Oracle databases 11g (11.2.0.4) from Linux Boxes to EXADATA machine using data guard switchover and Export & Import.  • Assisted in management and database administration of Oracle database applications on Exadata platforms.  • Participated in analysis of Oracle Exadata Server for infrastructure and related projects.  • Applied the Cluster ware, Database (RDBMS) Patches i.e. PSU patches and one-off patches (for Bug resolution) using o patch.  • Upgraded the RAC and standalone databases from 10g (10.2.0.4 and 10.2.0.5) to 11g (11.2.0.2, 11.2.0.3 and 11.2.0.4) and 11g to 12c. as part of performance improvement by utilizing the new features. Also upgraded 11g (11.2.0.3) Databases to 12c (12.1.0.1).  • Creation, Configuration and Setting up of RMAN Catalog databases and registering target Databases with the Catalog.  • Responsible for Backup and recovery of the databases using RMAN Tool (Recovery Manager), and Database Flashback using GRP (Guaranteed Restore Point) and Export and Import (Data pump and Normal) for restoring the specific objects at the database level.  • Building Oracle Stand by databases, both Active Data guard for real-time replication and normal Data guard for disaster recovery also referred as BCP clone purposes.  • Worked on Disaster Recovery by converting physical standby databases to SNAPSHOT standby database and opened in the read/write mode for testing purposes without interrupting the primary production database.  • Worked and implemented Database Wallet for Oracle 11g also called as KeyStore from 12c and TDE (Transparent Data Encryption) for Encrypting the Sensitive data using column encryption and tablespace encryption, also used TDE for Goldengate replication too.    • Also tested disaster recovery with database failover and switchover also tested Goldengate replication after that using DBFS filesystem and ACFS.  • Efficiently performed installation, setup and creation of three node cluster RAC with Oracle 11.2.0.3 database using GRID infrastructure with ASM file systems on RHEL 5.5.  • Maintenance of Oracle 11gR2 Real Application Cluster (RAC) Database for High Availability, Scalability and Performance by determining the best Cluster architecture, choosing the best hardware configuration for Oracle RAC.  • Leading the effort of Cross-platform migration of Oracle databases to Oracle Supercluster.  • HP-UX Platform migration to Oracle Linux 6.3 Using RMAN Transportable table space  • Monitoring of the databases using Oracle Enterprise Manager (12c).  • Worked on import/export, using data pump and SQL- loader.  • Installed and Implemented Backup & Recovery procedures, such as Hot, Cold, Logical backup plans.  • Recovering Golden Gate corruptions and managing host/cluster maintenance mode blackouts  • Performing day-to-day database administration tasks like Table space usage, checking alert log, trace files, monitoring disk usage, Table/index analyze jobs, database backup logs etc.  • Write and modify UNIX shell scripts to manage Oracle environment.  • Created users, granted roles and privilege management. Maintained user accounts and privileges to maintain application security.  • Knowledge in Oracle Data warehouse DBA skills relating to administration and management of VLDB environments, Oracle OLTP & OLAP.  • Experience in writing UNIX/SHELL scripts for providing the reports.  • Installed and configured Oracle 11g database on a test server using Oracle standard procedures and OFA, for performance testing and future 10g production implementation. Oracle Database Administrator 3M Companies Inc - Dallas, TX August 2012 to June 2015 • Cloned/Migrated databases using RMAN and traditional Data pump export/import utilities in Oracle 10gR2.  • Performed disk and disk group management in ASM while installing 11gR2 RAC.  • Monitoring Health checks of OCR, VOTING DISKS and troubleshooting issues in RAC environment (11GR2).  • Ensured that oracle database systems operate securely and efficiently.  • Managing databases from planning and testing stages through implementation and support.  • Performed day to day activities like resolving Tickets for multiple environments, provided Development Support, coordination with development for Application Tuning.  • Worked extensively on monitoring grid control database, configuration of error notifications, installing listeners, and adding them to the grid control.  • Performed conversion Non RAC single instance to Real Application Cluster (RAC) database instances.  • Implemented recovery strategies whenever required and successfully recovered databases in case database crash, media/disk failures by using RMAN.  • Scheduling the Physical backups (hot & cold) in CRON tab using RMAN utility and monitoring the scheduled jobs.  • Responsible for Creating Users, Groups, Roles, Profiles and assigning the users to groups and grant necessary privileges to the relevant groups.  • Used SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN utilities for optimizing and tuning SQL queries.  • Maintained the data integrity and security using integrity constraints and database triggers.  • Provided 24X7 support for all the production and development databases.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "run Installer" and Perl based utility "o patch".  • Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Data pump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  • Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Data pump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.    • Performed Installation and configuration of Oracle 10.2.0.1 database on HP-UX platform.  • Successfully performed migrations from Oracle 9i/10g to 10gR2 RAC (Real Application) Database.  • Successfully upgraded the databases from 11g to non CDB 12c.  • Successfully migrated 12c Non CDB databases to pluggable databases.  • Created Oracle Wallets and implemented Tablespace level TDE security.  • Constantly monitor the performance (V$ dynamic performance views at peak load) of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.  • Performed space management, capacity planning, disaster recovery and overall maintenance of the databases.  • Created Physical Standby databases using RMAN with zero downtime, performed Failover and Switchover using Data Guard Broker and manually as and when required.  • Successfully performed data replication using Materialized views and Oracle Streams in Oracle 10gR2. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science and Business Management university of Buea 1996 to 2000 High school or equivalent in Genaral Study Lycee of Bandjoun 1989 to 1996 Skills Database (7 years), Sql server (4 years), Oracle (7 years), Oracle 10g (7 years), Pl/sql (5 years), Sql (7 years), Rman (7 years), Hp-ux (7 years), Ux, Red hat (5 years), Solaris (7 years), Unix (7 years), Aix (6 years), Linux (7 years), Shell scripting (7 years), Sun, Unix shell (7 years), Vpn (7 years), Cisco (7 years), Rdbms, DB2, DBA, Oracle Database (7 years), RAC (7 years), MYSQL, Oracle Dba Certifications/Licenses Business Analyst 2019 to Present O C A Certified 2017 to Present Management 1 0 1 Certified 2006 to Present Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems:  HP-UX 10.x, 11.x. Sun Solaris 2.5, 2.6, 8, 9, 10. AIX 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 6.1 RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x, Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10. UNIX, Windows 95/98/NT/2000    RDBMS:  Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c, SQL Server, Exadata    Languages:  SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting, PERL.    Tools: TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM Toad, Putty, WinSCP, Remote Desktop Connection, VNC, Team Viewer, Cisco VPN Client    Database Utilities:  SQL*Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Real Application Cluster, ASM, Transportable Tablespaces, SQL*Loader, RMAN, Data Pump, Export, Import    Environment:  Sun Solaris, Windows Server 2012, Linux Red Hat,