Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - HPE/DXC/Perspecta Bloomfield Hills, MI • 10 Years of experience in relational database design, analysis, modeling, development, administration, implementation, trouble shooting and quality management.  • 6 years' experience as DBA on a 100 TB Database with 10 node RAC cluster, in a fast-paced Agile environment  • Successfully completed the proof of concept to move the Oracle database onto AWS cloud.  • Achieved AWS Cloud Practitioner Essentials (Second Edition) Certification  • Successfully built Oracle Cloud Infrastructure to migrate the data from On-Premise to OCI.  • Successfully planned and upgraded Oracle Database from 11g to 12c. Active Data guard Setup as a Disaster recovery solution.   • Installing and configuring MS-SQL server 2008 R2/ 2012 databases. Set-up and document the backup and recovery of the database. Expertise in T-SQL writing stored procedures, triggers and functions  • Installing and configuring MySQL servers on RHEL and Windows environments.  • Effectively configured MySQL Replication as part of HA solution. Performed MySQL Replication setup and administration on Master-Slave and Master-Master  • Experience in Logical and Physical Design of Databases for OLTP and Data Warehouse 24/7  • Worked closely with the Data-warehousing teams assisting/mentoring them with Advance SQL and PL-SQL, concepts to improve ETL processes.  • Creation/Maintenance of conceptual, logical and physical data models using ERWIN, and Oracle Data Integrator  • Extensively worked on configuring and managing RMAN backup and recovery from tape, hot and cold backup, DATAPUMP, EXP/IMP, Transportable tablespaces, database cloning using RMAN  • Extensively worked on Advance Compression, Oracle partitioning, Materialized Views, Database links  • Proven expertise in SQL, PL/SQL programming, worked on TOAD, SQL Developer  • Strong knowledge of Database Design, Database tuning, Application Tuning  • Expertise in managing Oracle 9i/10g/11g/12c. Managing all the databases in Linux Red Hat 5.0, Unix  • Maintain development and test database instances in support of application development life cycle  • Managing Database Security, user access and SOX/PCI compliance. Worked with external audit teams  • Working closely with Change Management in planning and implementing database changes  • Expertise in supporting monitor and troubleshooting of Oracle Streams 11g  • Working Knowledge of Oracle Enterprise Manager 11g/12c/13c. (SQL Tuning Advisor, Oracle Scheduler, Control -M, SQL Monitoring, Backup and recovery, security)  • Very strong analytical, mathematical and problem-solving skills  • Excellent team player with good communication, presentation, mentoring skills Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator HPE/DXC/Perspecta July 2016 to Present • Worked closely with the JAVA developers and be a mentor for all their Oracle Database expertise, helping evangelize database best practices and enforcing adherence to them. This includes assisting with objects design and creation, query performance tuning, Data Lifecycle Management  • Expertise in writing and executing advance database queries to validate data in ORACLE database  • Work with the appropriate teams (Security, Compliance, Internal Audit, and External Auditors) to define, implement, and enforce security standards for the database in compliance with company policies as well as compliance frameworks "SOX Compliance". Review security policies, participate in audits  • Support, administer and maintain production and non-production database environments  • Build and support database frameworks that allow the developers to more easily utilize complex database functionality in their applications  • Support, monitor and troubleshoot Oracle Streams  • Installing and configuring MySQL servers on RHEL and Windows environments.  • Effectively configured MySQL Replication as part of HA solution. Performed MySQL Replication setup and administration on Master-Slave and Master-Master  • Extensively worked on various monitoring tools such as OEM Grid, Power DBA to monitor all Oracle databases  • Ensuring availability and performance of the databases. Proactively monitor the database systems to ensure minimum downtime  • Worked on Management of schema's, objects & partitioning the tables & indexes  • Implemented strategy for partitioning and management of historical data tables in RAC  • Writing bash/shell scripts to automate the DBA tasks.  • Extensively worked on RMAN backup and Recovery, Database Cloning using RMAN, Restoring data files, Tablespaces using RMAN. Extensively worked on imp/exp, DATAPUMP.  • Experience working with SQL Tuning Advisor, Oracle Scheduler, SQL Monitoring, Backup and recovery  • Successfully completed the proof of concept to move the Oracle database onto AWS cloud.  • Sound knowledge and experience using version control tools such as GitHub, SVN. Data Modeler/ DBA Ally Financials January 2016 to July 2016 • Work for the integrated operational data storage project, and providing DBA services to the application development teams by being a mentor with respect to Oracle database expertise in a fast-paced agile environment.  • Designed conceptual data model based on the requirement, Interacted with non-technical end users to understand the business logics.  • Discussed the Data model, data flow and data mapping with the application development team.  • Helped developing PL/SQL packages, Conducted Unit testing, coordinated the production deployment and resolved Post implementation issues. Provided Maintenance & Support of the existing applications.  • Supporting the Application development teams with database design, performance tuning, implementing database best practices and being a mentor to the other teams.  • Automating the deployment of database objects and validating the objects at the end of each release.  • Creating DRD documentation, and working with the infrastructure team to get it approved.  • Create database validation document and verify the database when it's created.  • Creation/Maintenance of conceptual, logical and physical data models using ERWIN, and Oracle Data Integrator  • Working extensively with OEM tool to monitor databases and optimize database performance.  • Providing staging solution for capturing intra-day changes from source tables and feed it to data warehouse as the end of the day process.  • Planning and documenting the Database backup and recovery using RMAN  • Establishing and documenting change management process.  • Writing audit scripts to ensure we are compliant with the database security standards. Database Administrator University Of Michigan June 2015 to November 2015 • Upgraded the Oracle Database from Oracle 11.2.0.3 to 12.1.0.2  • Configured and managed RMAN backup and restoring it from the tape  • Managed Cold backup, Database cloning using RMAN  • Extensively worked on upgrades and patches on Banner Student Information system "ERP"  • Extensively worked on Import/Export/ DATAPUMP Utility  • Installing and configuring MS-SQL server database, and setting backup and recovery of the database,  • Working with the database developers to develop and maintain Oracle Database  • Constantly working with the end users and helping them resolve issues related to performance.  • Work with the internal and external auditors  • Writing bash/shell scripts to automate the DBA tasks. Database Administrator CARFAX Inc October 2012 to June 2015 • Support, administer and maintain production and non-production database environments  • Supporting the Data-warehousing teams assisting/mentoring them with Advance SQL and PL-SQL, concepts to improve ETL processes  • Creation/Maintenance of conceptual, logical and physical data models using ERWIN  • Ensuring availability and performance of the databases. Proactively monitor the database systems to ensure minimum downtime  • Writing bash/shell scripts to automate the DBA tasks.  • Written several PLSQL packages to standardize DBA tasks such as user management, database auditing, reset database passwords etc.,  • Worked on Management of schema's, objects & partitioning the tables & indexes  • Implemented strategy for partitioning and management of historical data tables in RAC  • Experience working with SQL Tuning Advisor, Oracle Scheduler, SQL Monitoring, Backup and recovery  • Extensively worked on RMAN backup and Recovery, Database Cloning using RMAN, Restoring data files, table-spaces using RMAN. Extensively worked on imp/exp, DATAPUMP. Programmer/DBA ORSCHELN FARM & HOME August 2009 to September 2012 • Provide production support the current ERP System  • Analyze the data, write ad hoc queries. Resolve day to day store issues related to price changes  • Develop Application for store back office and home office using Oracle APEX  • Worked on Oracle Streams to replicate the data across the databases  • Extensively worked on PL/SQL packages and collections, worked on conversions and interfaces  • Managing users, roles and privileges, data integrity  • Strong design and development background using PL/SQL  • Worked on RMAN backup. Managing all the databases in Linux Red Hat Education Master's in Computer Integrated Manufacturing and Management in Computer Integrated Manufacturing and Management University Of Huddersfield - Huddersfield Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills SQL (10+ years), PLSQL (10+ years), Linux (6 years), Unix (6 years), MySQL (4 years), MSSQL (4 years), Database Administration (10+ years), Database Development (10+ years), Performance Management (10+ years), SQL Tuning (9 years), DBA, Sql Dba, Oracle Dba, Sql Server, ETL Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner April 2019 to Present