Sr Enterprise Database Administrator Sr Enterprise <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr Enterprise Database Administrator Arlington, TX Visionary and goal oriented hands-on senior Information Technology management professional with demonstrated experience in planning, developing, and implementing cutting-edge information solutions to address business needs. Specializing in change management, crisis management, trouble-shooting, problem solving and negotiating.    LinkedIn: linkedin.com/in/chris-f-806560120    For the past 18 years I have been focused on database technologies. SQL Server is my main focus but I do have experience with Oracle at a developer level. I have done many projects updating, consolidating, reorganizing, and creating SQL Server farms. Database size has ranged from very small to 10TB.    I have been in IT since 1984. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Enterprise Database Administrator Financial Services Company - Dallas, TX November 2017 to April 2019 Reconfigure SQL Server farm from ground-up. Set standards for configuration, use, and care of all SQL Server instances. Custom write centralized backup solution using T-SQL only. Design and write custom jobs for daily, weekly, monthly, etc. maintenance of databases. Tune Microsoft Dynamics (Navision) for indexes and housekeeping and system/application response. Scale all systems with tempdb files and monitor response closely for each application. Work with development staff to bring system(s) to best-practice (on-going). SQL Server 2008 through SQL Server 2016 including Azure utilized. Sr Enterprise Database Administrator HLT - Grand Prairie, TX June 2016 to October 2017 Reconfigure SQL Server farm from ground-up. Set standards for configuration, use, and care of all SQL Server and Oracle instances. Custom write centralized backup solution using T-SQL only. Design and write custom jobs for daily, weekly, monthly, etc. maintenance of databases. Tune Microsoft Dynamics (Navision) for indexes and housekeeping and system/application response. Scale all systems with tempdb files and monitor response closely for each application. Work to better align how data is coming from the HLT stores (500) to the home-office and re-architect how that data is imported into the central database. Work with development staff to bring system(s) to best-practice. Architect solutions for moving forward with communication from the stores. Architect solution to import data from outside sources to centralized database. SQL Server 2008 through Azure utilized. Sr Enterprise Database Administrator - Consultant Dallas Cowboys - Arlington, TX October 2013 to January 2016 Reconfigure SQL Server farm from ground-up. Set standards for configuration, use, and care of all SQL Server and Oracle instances. Custom write centralized backup solution using T-SQL only. Design and write custom jobs for daily, weekly, monthly, etc. maintenance of databases. Tune Microsoft Dynamics (AX v4, AX v2012) for indexes and housekeeping and system/application response. Scale all systems with tempdb files and monitor response closely for each application. Mentor developers on best-practices using SQL Server and AX. Deep investigation in performance issues with AX v4 for stop-gap until AX v2012 put into place. Assemble presentations for meetings and MS Project plans. Create documentation for all processes, programs, etc. Introduce data dictionary to organization and start building master data management. SQL Server extended properties used to store data dictionary facts. Sr Enterprise Database Administrator - Consultant Lucernex Technologies - Plano, TX November 2010 to July 2013 Provide 24x7 support to a cloud computing company in the retail construction space. This included but not limited to 24x7 technical support for all SQL Server instances and databases. Build all co-located SQL Server instances from scratch. This included alerts, job creation, and optimization of indexes, disaster recovery, and tuning for all instances for two co-located SQL Server farms. Architect standard configuration for databases as well as mentor staff on data architecture best-practices. Education Bachelor's in Information Technology DeVry Institute - Dallas, TX September 1985 to May 1987 General Studies Tarrant County Junior College - Fort Worth, TX September 1983 to June 1984 High school or equivalent in General Studies James Bowie High School - Arlington, TX September 1981 to May 1983 Skills Database Development (10+ years), SQL Server Reporting Services (10+ years), SQL Server Integration Services (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Microsoft Project (10+ years), SQL Server Diagnostic Manager (5 years), SentryOne (2 years), DBA (10+ years), Sql Dba (10+ years), DB2 (5 years), T-SQL (10+ years), VBScript (10+ years), Project Management (10+ years), Powershell (8 years), SQL Server v4.3 - v2017 (10+ years), Database Management (10+ years), ETL (10+ years), SQL Server Database Administrator (10+ years), Oracle (10+ years), Batch Files (10+ years), Oracle Database, Sql Server, Sql Database Certifications/Licenses BrainBench - RDMS Concepts March 2006 to Present Transcript ID# : 3656198    RDBMS Concepts : 3.23   Computer Industry Knowledge : 3.25   Business Fundamentals : 3.19 Additional Information Private Pilot  Guitar