Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Service Source Inc Alexandria, VA COMMITMENT | LEADERSHIP | INTEGRITY    Database Administrator with more than 3 years experience designing, implementing and maintaining SQL Server solutions in an Enterprise environment. A detail-oriented, reliable, responsible and self-motivated team player Work Experience Database Administrator Service Source Inc - Oakton, VA December 2017 to Present Security Clearance:  Interim TS    • Configuring and monitoring AlwaysOn availability groups  • Setting up and monitoring database mirroring  • Migration of on premises databases to Azure  • Identifying and fixing slow running queries  • Working with developers, support and QA team to maintain all database environment.  • Database administration activities including; installation, configuration, capacity planning and space management.  • Recovery of databases from backups, implementing Point-in-Time Recovery solutions.  • Troubleshooting production issues.  • Upgrading database (in place and side by side).  • Setting up and monitoring Replication (transactional, snapshot, and merge).  • Migrated SSIS packages from SQL Server 2008 R2 to SSIS 2012.  • Scheduling Maintenance jobs and backup.  • Perform Technical analysis and troubleshooting on complex database problems. SENIOR QUALITY MONITOR GDIT - Alexandria, VA July 2012 to December 2017 • Collaborate with internal and external leadership to provide actionable data as needed.  • Oversaw quality plan for service center and recommended improvements.  • Provide quality feedback to team leaders to help facilitate quality improvement.  • Collaborate with internal and external leadership to provide actionable data as needed.  • Prepare and analyze reports to properly reflect outcomes and improve upon response.  • Plans, conducts, coordinates and implements a comprehensive training program for staff. Training components will be geared toward new hires, existing staff and individuals who seek one-on-one assistance. Education Associate of Arts in Early Childhood Development in Education and Certificates Northern Virginia Community College - Alexandria, VA Skills DATABASE, SQL SERVER, REPLICATION, SQL, CLUSTERING, MYSQL, Sql Dba Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE  * Database Security  * Replication  * Database Maintenance  * Always on availability groups  * Indexing    * Database upgrades  * Performance tuning  * SQL server Administration  * Expertise in T- SQL    * Failover Clustering  * Database monitoring tools and application support  * Troubleshooting capabilities  * Configurations