SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Server Database Administrator - PricewaterhouseCoopers Tampa, FL 8+years of experience as a SQL Server DBA(Cloud-Azure and AWS)) with detail oriented, analytical and troubleshooting experience in different Microsoft products like SQL Server, SharePoint, and Operating Systems. Depth knowledge and experience in data modeling including gathering and analyzing business requirement. Solid working experience in managing large databases in 24/7 data processing environment including backup/recovery, performance tuning, developing and managing reports using SQL Reporting Services (SSRS), Monitoring, Stored procedures, triggers, functions, constraints and views etc. and as well as reports using Microsoft Reporting Services, and Crystal Reports technologies. Working experience entails strong knowledge on using database third party tools (Idera, Spotlight, RedGate, ERWin, and TSM). Managed daily tasks with planning and organizing with prioritize basis. Quick response any email and attending daily, weekly meeting and a great team player.    TECHNICAL SKILS:    Database SQL Server 2016/2014/2012/2008/2005/2000, MySQL, Sybase, PostgreSQL,FoxPro, Oracle12c,No SQL, MS ACCESS 2003 & 2000, Cloudera Hadoop  SQL Tools SSMS, BIDS, Query Analyzer, Profiler, Database Mail, SQL MAIL, SQL Agent, PL/SQL, TOAD and BCP  ETL Tools SSIS/DTS  Database SSRS (SQL Server Reporting Services), Crystal Report, SSAS (SQL Server Analysis Reporting Services)  Data Modeling SSDD (SQL Server Database Diagram), ERWin, VISIO Red gate. Lite Speed and MPD  Programming SQL, T-SQL, Stored Procedure, Trigger, Web Design, HTML, JavaScript, ASP, ASP.net  Operating Windows 2000,7, XP/NT4.0, Windows Server 2012/2008/2003/2000, MS-DOS, System UNIX/Linux & VMware  Hardware Cluster, SAN, RAID  Storage  Cloud Computing Microsoft Azure(RDS), AWS(RDS)  Third Party dera, Spectrum, Spotlight, RedGate, ERWin, NetBackup  tools  Data Delphix  Virtualization Tools Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator PricewaterhouseCoopers - Tampa, FL May 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • As a Sr. SQL Server DBA Provided Production Support 24/7 and On-call support.  • Involved in Change Management, Problem management activities using SM9 tool before implementing database changes in test, stage, development and production activities.  • Installed and Upgraded from SQL Server and 2008 to 2008 R2, Migrated Databases from SQL 2008r2 to SQL 2012 and 2014/2016 and MYSQL to SQL Server 2014 databases.  • Migrating and new installations of SQL Server on VMWARE environment and supporting the SQL Server instances.  • Involved in troubleshooting database server issues to free up Log Space, Update Statistics and configure number of Locks.  • Managed back end SQL servers of SharePoint environment  • Experienced with Point-in-Time Recovery, Restored Database from backup.  • Performed BCP, BULK INSERT, Imported and Exported data from different Data Sources.  • Exported & Imported data from Flat file, Excel file, CSV file to/from SQL Server Database using DTS, SSIS, and BCP  • Expertise in automating the system by using System Center Operations Manager (SCOM).  • Experience in Installing and Configuring and supporting 2-node (A/A, A/P) and 4-node (A/A/A/P, A/A/P/P) Clustered Environment.  • Proficient in configuring, implementing, and monitoring different types of High Availability and disaster recovery scenarios like AlwaysOn, Mirroring, Replication, log shipping, and clustering  • Implemented Always-On along with method of access, device allocation, validation, disk configuration, security and sizing.  • Experience in scheduling Backups and Restore, Log Shipping and Maintenance plans using Native & Third-party tools (LiteSpeed5.0, Foglight, Spotlight, Idera Diagnostic Manager).  • Experience in Encryption on table level, TDE encryption ( database level) and SSL encryption (server level).  • Configured Security at ACTIVE DIRECTORY AND SQL SERVER LEVEL by Creating Principals (logins) and Mapping users to roles.(Securable and Permissions).  • Expertise in performance tuning by identify the bottlenecks from OS and SQL perspective.  • Scheduled and maintained new and existing jobs to automate different database related activities including backup, monitoring database health, disk space, backup verification, database statistics, rebuild or reorganize indexes.  • Expert in creating and debugging Views, Functions, Indexes, Cursors, Store Procedures, Triggers, Optimizing code and improving Efficiency.  • Azure automation (cloud and on-premises) solution development for Microsoft POC engagements.  • Experience in SQL Server instance Amazon Cloud -EC2  • Running SQL Server in the Amazon Cloud -RDS Backup and Restore  • Experience in SQL Server Amazon Cloud-RDS Monitoring and RDS Limitation  • Experience in Migration from SQL Server to AWS and upgrading the platform to AWS.  • Creating and Customizing SQL Azure Dynamic Data Masking  • Migration of SQL server database from on premise to Azure IAAS/PAAS  • Migration using Azure Site Recovery(ASR)  • Setting up and testing HA & DR(ASR)  • Experience in implementing multi-node windows/SQL HA  • Experience working with Azure SQL Database Import and Export Service.  • Suggesting the rite hardware for hosting SQL Server on Hyper-V like suggesting the different types of VHD's supporting Dynamic, Virtual, and Pass through  • Setup trust between on premise and cloud server using ACS and ADFS in Azure.  • Experienced in migrating database from local to RDS and one of AWS EC2 cloud environment  • Worked Extensively on ETL process using SSIS packages  • Loaded the data into another data sources (Oracle, SQL Server) using SSIS.  • Created various SSIS packages based upon the requirement.  • Experience in generating Reports (SSRS) in Business Intelligence Development Studio (BIDS).  • Used various Transformations in SSIS Dataflow, Control Flow using for loop Containers and Fuzzy Lookups etc.  • Created linked servers between Oracle 11g and MS SQL SERVER 2008 and also deployed SSIS packages for data transfer.  • Extensively used Repositories like Team Foundation Server (TFS) Visual source safe and Clear Case for Data Archival.  • Experience in logical and physical data modeling of the database in ERWIN and MS VISIO.  • Expert in raising the Service Requests and keep tracking of requests.  • Attended weekly/monthly meetings with other DBA, Project Manager, Dev. and Test Team regarding project status, deadline, technical issues & solution.    Environment: T-SQL, SQL Server 2000/2005/2008R2/2012/2014/2016, SSRS, SSAS, TCP/IP, SSIS, ETL, DTS, Windows 2008, 2012, XML, IIS, Access, Excel. Azure, AWS, RDS Sr.SQL Server Database Administrator Deloitte - Harrisburg, PA June 2016 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Extensively involved in 24X7 Production support of the databases and round-the-clock database operations including to Installation, configuration, importing exporting, patch installs, Capacity Planning, Backup and Recovery of mission critical databases.  ? Supports day to day operational duties for the database platform such as service requests and tickets, backups, monitoring, performance tuning, system troubleshooting  ? Expertise in Security Issues such as creating logins and granting permissions on various objects as well as administering security for server's logins regularly and guest user logins.  ? Installed, Configured, and Managed SQL Server 2012, 2008, 2005 & 2000 in development, test, and production environment  ? Installed and Configured SQL Server 2008 for testing different features and stability  ? Moving databases from on premise servers to Microsoft Cloud platform (SQL Azure) as part of application migrations.  ? Experience working with Azure SQL Database Import and Export Service.  ? Experience in deploying SQL Databases in cloud (Azure and AWS)  ? Installed, Configured and Maintained Fail-Over Clustering using SQL Server 2008 R2/2005  ? Installed, Configured and Maintained Database Mirroring using automatic fail-over option in SQL Server  ? Configured Log Shipping as Standby database from Production database for Reporting purposes  ? Configured and Maintained Replications (Transactional)  ? Installed, Configured, and administered SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  ? Developed and Deployed Reports using SSRS and worked on Ad-hoc Reports using Report Builder 3.0, 2.0  ? Worked on Database Migrated in development, testing and production environment.  ? Involved in Data Modeling tools used using ERWin, VISIO, Oracle SQL Developer, SQL Server Data Diagram  ? Applied SP (Service Pack), HOT Fixed on SQL Server  ? Strong knowledge on database Monitoring and Performance tuning and Monitor SQL Server Error Log, space usage  ? Scheduled jobs to automate different database related activities including backup, monitoring database health, disk space, backup verification  ? Writing T-SQL, User Define Function, Trigger, and Stored-Procedures and assisted Database Developers to optimize SQL queries and Stored Procedures  ? Export & Import data from Flat file, CSV file to/from SQL Server Database using DTS, SSIS, and BCP  ? Export & Import data from/to databases like Oracle, My-SQL, and Access to/from SQL Server  ? Strong knowledge and working experience in Database Backup and Disaster Recovery and experienced with Point-in-Time Recovery from backup.  ? Used DBCC to check database conditions, Rebuilding indexes and other database Maintenance purposes as well  ? Strong working experience in creating, modifying tables, Index (Cluster/Non-Cluster), Constraints (Unique/Check), Views, Developed Different Maintenance Plans for database monitoring, Server Activity, and solving problem as needed  ? A well-organized, goal-oriented, highly motivated effective team member with excellent analytical, troubleshooting, and problem solving skills. Install Oracle software; Create and Manage Oracle database    Environment: MS SQL Server 2014/2012/2008R2/2005, Windows Clustering, Replication, Windows Server 2008R2 and Windows Server 2003, .Net Framework, C#.Net, JavaScript, MS TFS, MS-Access, SharePoint 2010, Oracle 10g, LiteSpeed. SSIS, SSAS, SSRS, VMware. SQL Server Database Administrator Unisys - Reston, VA September 2014 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Installed and configured SQL Server 2005/2000 on new servers with service packs.  • Upgrade SQL Server 2005 side by side upgrade from SQL server 2000.  • Migrated Databases from SQL Server 2000 to SQL server 2005  • Expertise in setting up and troubleshooting Database mirroring.  • Worked on log shipping for synchronization of database.  • Expertise in working with Transactional Replication Environment and handled the publication conflicts manually depending on last changed date.  • Checked the configuration and performance of the existing databases including data file allocation, index fill factor, fragmentation and the impact on system performance. Analyzed potential problems (response delay, locking, server down time, etc) to avoid and optimize.  • Rebuilding the indexes at regular intervals for better performance based on level of fragmentation.  • Responsible for monitoring and making recommendations for performance improvement in hosted databases. This involved index creation, index removal, index  • modification, file group modifications, and adding scheduled jobs to re-index and update statistics in databases.  • Implemented and Maintained routine DBA tasks like scheduling jobs, creating maintenance plans. Checked servers for optimizations and implemented them.  • Setup Database Security and maintained accounts and access levels by creating suitable Logins, Roles and assigning object level permissions.  • Implementation of SQL Logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of users.  • Resolving performance issues using DMVs (Dynamic Management Views).  • Expert in Performance Tuning, Analyzed long running queries and tuned them to optimize the system performance.  • Monitored SQL Server logs to ensure whether the backup operations, batch commands, scripts have completed successfully.  • Performed data partitioning for efficient management of database tables and indexes  • Extensively working on performance issues like update statistics, Auto Stats.  • Experience with Transparent Data Encryption (TDE), in regular maintenance activities like Query Tuning, statistics update, Index rebuild, log file monitoring, temp DB monitoring, deadlock resolutions, and fragmentation issues  • Used native tools like Database Tuning Advisor, SQL Server Profiler, Performance Monitor and Activity Monitor for performance tuning  • Involved in Analysis, Development and Maintenance of Backup Plan, Disaster Recovery Plan, Procedures and Strategies using Maintenance Plans  • Involved in Configuring and testing the setup of SQL Server Database encryption on DR servers  • Provided 24/7 Support for Production , Development & Test Servers of MS SQL Servers    Environment: SQL Server 2008/2005/2000, SSIS, SSRS, Data Ware Housing, Visual studio 2008, MS Visio 2007, Enterprise Edition, XML, MS Access 2003. SQL Server Database Administrator McKesson - San Francisco, CA November 2012 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Participates in the designing, implementing and testing of development cycle of business applications. Advises software development/QA teams on database design and performance optimization.  • Implements production, QA and development databases and maintains their integrity.  • Provides technical guidance to IT personnel in the investigation, analysis and resolution of database problems.  • Implements procedures for database backup/restores. Conducts restore tests periodically to verify backups and restoration performance.  • Implements security procedures to protect company databases and applications including access control and data encryption/masking procedures. Supports regular auditing reviews and change controls.  • Monitors databases and their subsystems on all platforms to ensure optimal performance SQL Server Database Administrator The Boeing Company - Milford, OH April 2010 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Installed and Configure SQL Server2008, 2005 & 2000 in development, test, and production environment  ? Installed, Configured and Maintained SQL Server 2000 & 2005 Fail-Over Cluster Servers  ? Installed and Configured Operating System, Windows Server (2000 & 2003)  ? Migrated databases from SQL Server 2000 to 2005 in test and production environment  ? Designed and developed SSIS packages using different control flow tasks, Transformations and dataflow tasks  ? Setting up Linked Servers in Kerberos authentications  ? Involved in Performing Production data refresh in Mobility Performance environment  ? Implementing DR solution, High availability of database servers using Database mirroring and replications  ? Monitored database status including CPU, memory, I/O, space, and deadlocks using SQL Server utilities and raising Tickets for the upgrading of CPU and memory space  ? Performed data modeling activities using ER diagrams, application performance tuning and code reviews and documenting the changes.  ? Implemented new features in SQL Server 2008 like Policy based Management, Table Compression, Backup Compression, SQL Server Auditing, Resource Governor and Merge statement in T-SQL.  ? Migrated MS Access databases into MS SQL Server and Imported data from Oracle, Excel, Flat file, CSV file to SQL Server Database  ? Work experience and strong knowledge in disaster recovery  ? Configured Log Shipping from Production to Standby Server (Running as Reporting Server)  ? Configured and Maintained Replications (Transactional)  ? Performance tuning & index tuning  ? Created Backup strategy for production and development environment  ? Database Backup & Restore and scheduled jobs by using the 'Database Maintenance Plan'  ? Monitor Servers activity, solving problem and daily check the SQL Server Error Log, space usage, etc  ? Provided 24/7 Support for Production, Development & Test Servers of MS SQL Servers dedicated databases.  ? Run DBCC statements to check physical and logical consistency of the database and Rebuild indexes  ? Extensively experience in using DTS, BCP to import & export data from flat files, excel and MS Access to MS SQL Server databases  ? Designed Logical & Physical Database and Backward & Forward Engineering by using ERWin  ? Involved in creating and modifying tables, Index (Cluster/Non-Cluster), Constraints (Unique/Check), Views, Stored Procedures, Triggers  ? Used DBCC to check physical and logical consistency of database and Rebuilding indexes    Environment: SQL Server 2012/2008/2005/2000, Oracle11/ 10g/ 9i, .Net Framework 2.0, C#.Net, Asp.Net2.0, JavaScript, VSS, Windows 2000, Windows 2003/2008 Server, MS-Access Education Bachelor's