Cyber Security Analyst/RMF Specialist (Veteran Affairs) Cyber Security Analyst/RMF Specialist (Veteran Affairs) Cyber Security Analyst/RMF Specialist (Veteran Affairs) - Tech Global Solutions Columbia, MD Seasoned Risk Management Framework Specialist and Database Administrator with extensive knowledge of Oracle database systems and NIST 800 Series. Proven-track record of excelling in high-pressure, deadline-driven environments.    TECHNICAL EXPERIENCE    • Installation, Upgrading and Managing Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c databases  • Hands on experience with Performance tuning using AWR, ADDM and ASH, Backup and Recovery  • Excellent understanding of Risk Management Framework (RMF)/Cybersecurity/IT Security, NIST 800 Special Publication Series, Security Assessment and Authorization (SA&A), Certification and Accreditation (C&A), Authorization - to- Operate (ATO), System Security Plan (SSP), Contingency Plan, FIPS 199 Categorization, Business Impact Analysis (PIA), Privacy Impact Analysis (PIA), Security Assessment Report (SAR), Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M)  • Implements data security measures and controls to protect our client's information systems. Review and responds to security alerts, scans, and FISMA audits  • Database backup and recovery using Recovery Manager (RMAN)  • Export and Import using both traditional import/export and data pump  • Experienced in data migration efforts using Oracle utilities like SQL loader, and data.  • Database user security design and policies enforcement through roles, resource profiles, usage audits, among others  • Database migration, upgrade and quarterly PSU patching  • Experience in managing databases using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM)  • Responsible for actively monitoring internal and external cybersecurity threats and risks    Tools and Applications    • Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN)  • VMware  • Remedy Ticketing System  • XACTA  • CSAM  • GRC RiskVision Work Experience Cyber Security Analyst/RMF Specialist (Veteran Affairs) Tech Global Solutions March 2016 to Present • Develops Accreditation and Authorization (A&A) artifacts using VA approved template for FISMA & FEDRAMP compliance requirements using the FIPS, NIST SP-800 series (199, 200, SP 800-37R1, SP 800-53R4, SP 800-53AR4 & SP 800-34R1).  • Provide weekly ATO status reports for detailed and thorough visibility of contract performance.  • Reviews Security Controls, Validate, & Update security artifacts in GRC RiskVision (PTA, PIA, SOP, SSP, ISA/MOU, IRP, RA, DRP, ISCP, CMP, & POA&M), travel to client sites to support CIOs & ISOs to mitigate vulnerabilities found in facilities & information systems in preparation of Pre-OIG FISMA / FISCAM Audit for the Department of VA.  • Performs Risk Management Framework (RMF) & Security Assessment Framework (SAF) to address the security concerns of information systems.  • Evaluates relevant information security policies, guidelines & IT best practices in compliance with NIST, FIPS, FISMA, FEDRAMP & OMB circulars applicable federal laws and regulations.  • Develops & maintains Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) to improve SA&A processes.  • Performs Security Test and Evaluation (ST&E) assessment on systems using scanning tools & manual assessment according to 800-53A.  • Provide status reports on incident alerted by the IDS and IPS security system as necessary.  • Conducts Security Control Assessment (SCA), develop Security Assessment Report & POAM. Review scan results and coordinate with IT team to resolve deficiencies found and re-asses controls upon POA&M resolution. Oracle Database Administrator QSSI September 2014 to March 2016 • Installed, configured and maintained oracle 11g and 12c databases in both test and development environments.  • Performed Oracle database upgrades from 11.2.0.3 to 11.2.0.4 to 12.1.0.2, and applies quarterly PSU patches  • Refreshed development database from production using data pump export/import and RMAN.  • Implemented and enforces security for all of the Oracle Databases.  • Help resolved various database-related issues and customer requests.  • Creates tablespaces and plans the location of data, index, undo tablespaces redo log files and control files in adherence to the Optimal Flexible Architecture.  • Managed database security by creating and assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity.  • Sized database objects for effective space management and optimal performance.  • Proactively monitored hit ratios on different components of the SGA, including tuning of the shared pool, databases buffers and redo buffers.  • Analyzed tables on a regular basis for the Oracle optimizer.  • Performed level 0 and 1 database backup using RMAN  • Supplemented database backups with data pump export  • Recovered database recovery when necessary.  • Loaded data using SQL*Loader to assist Data Warehouse developers.  • Ensured that daily cold and hot RMAN backups are successfully made and valid for restore and recovery  • Deployed database scripts on both production and non-production environments  • Performed Oracle database, SQL and application tuning and monitoring using partitioning, AWR, ASH and ADDM  • Administered Oracle database, including design and creation of schema objects, integrity constraints, users and roles.  • Created tablespaces, manage storage allocations by adding datafiles, create redo log files to reduce I/O from frequent checkpoints to achieve optimal performance for transactions.  • Ensured that daily exports are successfully made and valid for small table level restores  • Used Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) as an interface to manage the Oracle databases  • Created database users, roles and privileges. Manages passwords and resolve connectivity issues Oracle Database Administrator Disys - McLean, VA June 2013 to August 2014 • Supported the installation and configuration of oracle on VM Virtual Box for test and development purposes.  • Monitored and maintained system security including database alert logs, managed file system disk space, resizing table space and defragmenting the database as needed, system shut down and restart, unlocking database table locks as well as monitor and creating additional tablespaces and file space as needed.  • Managed and created new users, roles and assigning users the appropriate roles and profiles to ensure database security and data integrity.  • Coordinated with UNIX/LINUX administrators for space management on servers and space planning for data growth.  • Monitored RMAN backups, data pump dump files, archive redo log files and fast recovering area.  • Support DBA for service requests from developers, system administrators and client users.  • Documented significant day-to-day database changes and maintained a monthly report.  • Responsible for scheduled maintenance tasks including exports, backups, and database recovery. Education BS in Computer Science University of Science and Technology Skills Nist, Cyber Security, It Security, Information Assurance, Information Security