Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - FedEx Supply Chain Pittsburgh, PA Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator FedEx Supply Chain - Cranberry, PA November 2015 to Present Managed Oracle database administration assignments for diverse industry clients. Enhance database performs restores, implement recovery procedures, handle performance tuning, cloning and conduct regular system backups.  • Trained to provide accurate resolution and root cause by independently investigate, analyze and troubleshoot problem.  • Installed, configured and administered oracle 10g, 11g, 12c Oracle RAC and Non RAC database on Linux and Aix machines.  • Maintenance of production database and development database which includes table space management, user creation, and privileges, roles. Support RMAN backup and recovery including physical backups and logical backups by using data pump (Export/Import) tool.  • Experience in creating and maintaining Oracle cloud databases (OCI), Configured OEM 13.3 on OCI servers to monitor databases on cloud environment.  • Maintained and configured and Oracle Data-guard for 11g, 12c databases.  • Installed and configured OEM 13.3 and worked on Auto patching using Enterprise Manager 13.3.  • Hands on experience in Oracle 11g/12c RAC implementation & administration (Oracle Cluster-ware setup and configuration, RAC installation using ASM, Grid Installation).  • Provided High Availability (HA) and Disaster Recovery (DR) solutions to maintain business data integrity.  • Experience in applying Oracle (psu/cpu) patches using Mos/Metalink to ensure database availability, reliability, accessibility, scalability and security.  • Monitor and fully analyze performance issues in production Oracle databases by using awr/ash/gathering statistics/oem 13c.  • Responsible for installing, upgrading, patching and configuring the Oracle database 10g, 11g and 12c environment.  • Experience in User Management and database security by granting appropriate Roles, Privileges and Profiles.  • Performed day to day dba activities such as monitoring SQL Server health, job status, addressing user requirements.  • Took responsibility of maintaining the SQL Server instances to ensure software is properly installed, security patches were applied and upgrades were done.  • Experience in writing Unix Shell Scripts.  • Administered and troubleshooting WebLogic issues and WebSphere issues.  • Responsible to handle Oracle, SQL server and MySQL databases.  • Experience in handling web-logic and 12c forms and reports issue.  • Installed and configured Oracle Golden Gate on 11g/12c database for data replication. Oracle Database Administrator (DBA) Natsoft corporation - Somerset, NJ March 2015 to November 2015 Database Administrador  • Maintained and responsible for upgrading oracle 10g, 11g & 12c databases.  • Responsible to minimize downtimes on applications by storing daily backups/exports of database into disk/tape systems. Set up and maintained backup procedures for database using RMAN.  • Participated in team building and certification projects impacting database platform with goal of delivering and implementing a reliable solution to support or enhance infrastructure.  • Experience with Oracle ebs 11i & R12 Administration.  • Perform backups and recovery, loaded data into development, UAT, and Test databases to resolve any performance issues that arises, as well as blocking issues, snapshots failures, and replication problems.  • Respond to production issues accurately and in timely manner.  • Experienced in handling TKPROF, SQL_TRACE, Optimizer modes, Optimizer hints, Gathering statistics, and stats pack for tuning database.  • Created database users, manage permissions, roles and enabled database auditing for security. Senior Database Administrator Sherwin-Williams - Kuala-Lumpur February 2014 to January 2015 • Provided 24/7 Production support and troubleshooting user issues  • Experience in Database Refresh and patch management and in Database cloning with RMAN and manual methods.  • Maintained Oracle 11g Active/standby data guard.  • Installed and configured Oracle E-Business Suite 11i & R12.  • Successfully upgraded Oracle database from 10g to 11g.  • Created User accounts, Roles and granting required access permissions and privileges to the users.  • Generated scripts for daily maintenance activity like analyzing the tables/indexes, and monitoring their growth rate.  • Coordinated with developers and users connecting to different databases, setting policy and procedures as they relate to database maintenance, security, backup & recovery, SQL coding guide lines. Database Administrator OSI consulting - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2012 to December 2013 • Installed and configured Oracle E-Business Suite 11i & R12.  • Experienced in Installing, Patching of Oracle DB and Applications.  • Managed RMAN backups and alert monitoring.  • Resolved performance issues related to long running queries, sessions, and DB locks.  • Managed database alert log files and trace files for any error messages.  • Managed users, privileges, profiles & schemas using Grid Control of Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM). Oracle Database Administrator Y-brant Digital - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2012 to October 2013 Oracle Administrator 3k Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2010 to April 2012 Education Bachelor of Technology in Technology JAWAHARLAL NEHRU TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY - Hyderabad, Telangana 2007 Skills Database, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Rman, Backups, Aix, Linux, Shell scripting, Unix, Unix shell, Pvcs, Scripting, Cvs, Version control, Oem, Import/export, Sql Dba, DBA Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/harshaa0347 Additional Information Core competencies include:  • Oracle DBA 9i, 10g, 11g & 12c • Oracle Enterprise Manager 12c and 13c  • Oracle 11g/12c RAC & ASM Administration • Data pump and Import/Export Utilities  • RMAN Backups & Recovery • Oracle Data Guard  • Oracle Cloud (OCI) • Oracle Golden Gate  • SQL Server database 2012 & 2014 • MySQL database  • Performing Tuning and Capacity Monitoring • Oracle Sql Developer and TOAD    Technology Snapshot: Oracle (12c, 11g, 10g, & 9i), Oracle Cloud (OCI), Oracle RAC, ASM, Opatch, ad-patch, OEM 13c, 12c & 11g, RMAN, Export & Import, Solar winds, UNIX shell scripting, SQL, SQL/PL, IBM AIX, UNIX, LINUX, Windows, Quest Toad, SQL developer, PVCS, and CVS version control.