SQL Server Database Specialist/DBA SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> Specialist/DBA SQL Server Database Specialist/DBA - NBTY, Inc, Long Island Long Island, NY • 8+ years of experience in Microsoft SQL including R2, SSIS, SSAS, and SSRS enterprise editions and exposure  • Involvement through the phases of the software development life cycle (SDLC) including Requirement Gathering, Analysis, Design, Development, testing, and Post-Production Support.  • Experience in planning, installing, configuring, and managing of SQL R2 and server.  • Working with system and user-defined databases, database files, and file groups.  • Skill in designing, creating, configuring, monitoring, upgrading, and supporting databases.  • Experience in planning, Implementing, and administering HA/DR solutions like log shipping, Mirroring, Replication, Clustering, and Always on the Availability group.  • Proficiency on performance monitoring using SQL server profiler, performance monitor, activity monitor, extended events, Database engine tuning advisor (DTA), and Server-side traces.  • Very good knowledge in fine tuning long running T-SQL scripts by breaking down complex scripts to simple once, creating Indexes, updating statistics and so on.  • Hands-on experience in Database Administration Operations like Backup, Recovery, Installing, Configuring, Managing, monitoring and using SQL Profiler.  • Designed and developed ETL-SSIS packages with various transformations, stored procedures, configuration files and tables.  • Expert in Extracting and transforming data (ETL) from various heterogeneous sources and loading them into various heterogeneous sources.  • Implemented Event Handlers and Error Handling in SSIS packages.  • Knowledge of capacity planning and storage management, expanding, and shrinking databases.  • Skill on creating database objects like views, indexes, stored procedures, functions, and triggers.  • Extensive experience creating user and groups' logins, granting necessary permissions, and monitor activities enforcing the security policy.  • Setting up, Scheduling and maintenance plans, jobs, notifications, and alerts.  • Creating and configuring and managing partially contained databases, and database Snapshots.  • Monitoring, Rebuilding and reorganizing indexes at regular intervals for better performance.  • Strong understanding in performance tuning, query optimization, and resolving database performance issues including blocking, deadlocking, and index fragmentation.  • Skilled in database encryption and column level encryption.  • Implementing, managing and troubleshooting SQL server security, and audit.  • Troubleshooting SQL server by Reading and analyzing event viewer and SQL server error logs.  • Experienced in writing complex T-SQL scripts to support Ad-hoc needs.  • Experience in creating various complex reports in SSRS (tabular, drill down, drill through, matrix, chart, and parameterized) per requirements.  • Experience in SCRUM & Agile Process.  • Experience in Service Management (which includes Incident, Change and Problem) and well versed in handling issues in Production. Work Experience SQL Server Database Specialist/DBA NBTY, Inc, Long Island May 2019 to Present Roles and Responsibilities:  • Maximize data integrity by establishing new SQL Server security best practices/transparent data encryption.  • Bolster performance by leveraging execution plans, DVM, Profiler, and Database Tuning Advisor.  • Take the initiative on vital installation, configuration, and maintenance operations for MS SQL Server 2012/16.  • Expertly apply patches and hotfixes were necessary to keep databases functioning at peak performance.  • Administer user permissions and accounts on MS SQL Server and databases according to company policies.  • Ensure that all data is safeguarded by implementing a backup, recovery plan, and point-in-time recovery.  • Facilitate smooth updates and backups for databases by managing database maintenance plans.  • Manage the development and installation of SSIS packages, Windows tasks, and SQL Server Agent jobs.  • Employ the SSIS package for migrating data from CSV flat files to or from SQL Server Database.  • Promptly investigate, identify, and resolve problems related to a member, I/O, disk space, blocking, deadlock, index fragmentation, growth patterns, error logs, database integrity, connectivity, and the CPU.  • Involved in designing, developing and testing of the ETL (Extract, Transformation and Load) strategy to populate the data from various source systems feeds using SSIS.  • Used various SSIS task such as conditional split, derived column, which did data scrubbing, including data validation checks during staging before loading data to data warehouse and data marts.  • Developed complex SQL queries using stored procedures, common table expressions (CTEs), temporary table to support Power BI and SSRS reports.  • Developed complex programs in T-SQL, writing Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views, Cursors, CTE's, schemas, used DDL, DML commands. Designed cubes with star schema using SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS).  Environment: SSIS, SQL Server 2016/2008 R2, Windows 7 Enterprise, JIRA, T-SQL, SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS), Business Intelligence Development Studio (BIDS), Team foundation Server (TFS), SharePoint, MS Excel. SQL Server Database Administrator North-Shore Medical Centre - Boston, MA December 2015 to May 2019 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Oversaw all daily operations and maintenance tasks for database infrastructure, which included security administration, backups, monitoring, and performance tuning to ensure security and optimal efficiency.  • Supported the production/development environment of SQL Server R2 on Windows Server 2012R2.  • Enhanced scalability and performance by construction and updating tables, indexes, constraints, and views.  • Carefully monitored SQL Server to eliminate any deadlocks and resolve issues with memory/performance.  • Worked extensively with HA features, which included log shipping, mirroring, and replication projects.  • Utilized JIRA to handle trouble tickets; quickly addressed problem tickets and maintained SQL system records.  • Developed SQL Queries to fetch complex data from different tables in remote databases using joins, database links and formatted the results into reports and kept logs  • Created packages in SSIS with error handling and worked with different methods of logging in SSIS.  • Monitor SQL Error Logs / Schedule Tasks/ database activity/ eliminate Blocking & deadlocks user counts and connections/locks etc.  • Implement automated Index Maintenance strategy run as SQL Jobs daily.  • Worked on Transactional Replication and replicated thousands of tables from various Databases to different production Server. Resolving any dead locks issues with the Databases/Servers on a real-time basis.  • Worked on development, implementation, administration and support of ETL processes for large-scale Data Warehouses using SSIS and DTS.  • Managed indexes, statistics and tuned queries by using execution plan for optimizing the performance of the databases. Query optimizations (T SQL or Query Analyzer) using query analyzer and Index tuning wizards.    Environment: SQL Server 2012/2016, T-SQL, SSIS (SQL Server Integration Services), SSRS (SQL Server Reporting Services), SSAS, Visio, Share point Products, MS Query Analyzer, Profiler. SQL Server DBA MTA - New York, NY August 2011 to December 2015 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Increased user/data security by implementing SQL logins, roles, and authentication modes.  • Directed the deployment of database objects and structure changes across multiple types of environments.  • Leveraged top-notch technical expertise to draft technical documentation and information flow charts.  • Used the DBCC utility to resolve database errors and corruptions; capably performed scheduled maintenance.  • Coordinated database backups, integrity checks, and scheduled jobs to verify that operations were maintained.  • Carefully monitored SQL Server to eliminate any deadlocks and resolve issues with memory/performance. Implemented Constraints (Primary Key, Foreign Key, Default, Unique, Check and Not Null/Null) and fine tune Indexes on Tables.  • Performed database consistency checks at regular intervals.  • Involved in database design process and data modeling process using diagrams and Visio.  • Used Database Engine Tuning advisor and SQL Profiler for Monitoring memory, processor, Disk I/O and SQL Queries.  • Implemented Performance Tuning of T-SQL Statements effectively with SQL Profiler and Database Tuning Advisor.  Environment:SQL Server T-SQL Windows Enterprise Server Enterprise Manager, SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Server Business Intelligence Studio. Education Bachelor's Skills Security, Performance tuning, Drafting Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES:  Drafting Documents - Performance Tuning - Implementing Processes - High Availability Solutions  User Administration - Backup & Security - Updates & Patching    AREA OF EXPERTISE:    Platforms Windows Server/Windows 8/Windows 7 Professional/ Windows 10/ Unix/Linux / MacOS  Concepts Data Warehousing, Business Intelligence  Tools Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services, Integration Services  Databases SQL Server  Bug Management Tools HP Quality Center 9.2/HP ALM, Helix ALM (TestTrack), JIRA, Bugzilla  Database/ Database Tools SQL Server  Utilities/ Tools Eclipse, Jenkins, Microsoft Team Foundation Server (TFS), GitHub, Maven, Stash, SVN, Firebug  Programming Languages T-SQL, Dynamic SQL, DOS Scripting  Data Modeling  MS Visio, FACT& Dimensions tables, Physical & Logical data modeling, Star & Snowflake schema, Relational, Dimensional and multidimensional modeling and De-Normalization Techniques, MS- Access    Data Design Tools MS Visio, Smart Draw  BI Tools SQL Server Reporting Services (), SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS ), SQL Server Analytical Services (SSAS ), BIDS  Tools/ Database Utilities  SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Server Enterprise Manager, SQL Server Profiler, Import & Export Wizard, Microsoft Management Console, Business Intelligence Development Studio (BIDS), Visual Studio Team Foundation Server (TFS)    Application Packages MS Office, Microsoft SharePoint Server