Scrum Master Scrum Master Scrum Master - Connections Education LLC Silver Spring, MD I have 5 years of hands-on experience of Agile Methodology and have worked on Agile frameworks such as Scrum, Kanban and SAFe as a Certified Scrum Master. Prior to becoming a Scrum Master, I worked as a database admin. My 7+ overall years of experience in an IT environment, dealing with multiple software life cycles from concept, design, development, testing and delivery have given me seasoned experience as a Scrum Master. I am a goal-oriented and results-driven individual with outstanding professional capabilities, and I am authorized to work in the USA for any employer. Work Experience Scrum Master Connections Education LLC - Columbia, MD April 2017 to Present • Oversaw the frameworks used in the app creation.  • Suggested Ionic framework because of its efficiency and fast to market environment.  • Held daily stand up meetings, backlog grooming and retrospective meetings to track the project progress.  • Improved team velocity by incorporating capacity planning into sprint planning sessions.  • Removed team impediments daily to allow the team to deliver the sprint goals and deliverables  • Created business requirement documents and acted as the liaison between the business and software development team during high-level review sessions to drive and execute action plans, meet deadlines and industry standards.  • Liaison between developers and project stakeholders; fostering quality communication between engineering disciplines.  • Coordinated all Scrum Ceremonies including Sprint Planning, Daily Standups, Sprint retrospectives, Sprint Demos, Story Grooming and Release Planning.  • Worked on business survey modernization.  • Worked with contracting team to make sure contracting team performed per the estimated velocity to deliver product on time.  • Managed all Scrum boards and documented Sprint backlog items and tasks using JIRA.  • Tracked and communicated team velocity and other development metrics and to all affected teams and management.  • Removed all obstacles that may interfere with the ability of teams to deliver assigned goals Scrum Master Xerox Corporation - Rochester, NY May 2014 to April 2017 • Spearheaded Agile/ Scrum implementation plan to move Xerox from Waterfall to Scrum to further the organization's streamlined approach to software development  • Trained the entire Xerox Department of Human Resources (DHR) apps group, and parts of the State of MD in Scrum to better understand agile practices and principles  • Contributed to the authorship of PMO artifacts such as the Xerox Project Charter that redefined the organization's role within the Agile Framework going forward  • Coordinated Scrum ceremonies: Sprint Planning, Daily Scrum, Sprint Review (Demo), Retrospectives, Backlog Refinement to ensure continuous inspection and adaption of software development lifecycle  • Identified impediments and dysfunctions to the teams and the Agile/ Scrum process within organization to limit transitional setbacks and maximize team output  • Negotiated feature and deliverable scope and schedule through excellent client (Product Owner) management to ensure a quality finished product  • Engaged clients, stakeholders and end users to incorporate usability and interface needs in the design to make certain delivered product reflects exact specifications  • Organized and scheduled training of internal and remote users in Agile/ Scrum methodology. Oracle Database Administrator New York Times - Manhattan, NY March 2011 to February 2014 • Implemented two types of standby databases supported by Data Guard, logical standby and physical standby databases in 11gR2 on two node RAC  • Have hands on experience in Hot/Cold Backups, Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN with VERITAS Net Backup and Commvault.  • Implemented Active Data guard, creating both Logical and Physical Standby databases in 10g, 11gRAC & 12C environment for production databases.  • Configured and managed Data Guard extensively for Production databases of sizes ranging from 50GB to 5TB.  • Experience in Installing OEM 12c Cloud Control and upgrading the 11g management agents to 12c agents.  • Cloning/duplication of database with RMAN and user-managed (hot/cold) backups.  • Migration of databases to 12C from Oracle 10g and 11g.  • Implemented and maintained Oracle 11g Data Guard/standby databases for fail-over purposes.  • Also worked on Network data encryption to improve security and also implemented SSL wallet to secure connections.  • Developed RMAN backup strategies for cloning the test databases with the production environment and worked on RMAN active-active duplication.  • Experience with Logical backups EXPDP/IMPDP extensively used for Re-hosting the application using Golden Gate and worked with conventional EXP/IMP for migrating data from 9i to 10G.  • Scheduled RMAN backups, purge jobs, Maintenance Jobs using DBMS_JOBS, DBMS_SCHEDULER, Crontab and $UNIVERSE.  • Designed and implemented different backup strategies like Cold, Hot, RMAN with Flash Recovery Area and Logical Backups EXPDP/IMPDP.    Tools/Utilities Used: Oracle RMAN, Toad, OEM, DBMS STATS, Data pump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, Education Bachelor's in Math and Computer Science University of Buea - Buea October 2004 to September 2007 Skills Jira, Database, Oracle, Forecasting, Capacity planning, Agile Scrum, Certified Scrum Master