SQL Server Database DBA/Admin SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> DBA/Admin SQL Server Database DBA/Admin - OPTUM Care Columbia, MD US Citizen and Certified SQL Server DBA with professional experience for about 6 years in database administration, monitoring, designing, troubleshooting and performance tuning, seeking for a challenging position with a prospective company to utilize and expand my technical knowledge, skills and expertise using SQL Server Database. My expertise entails in database optimization, installation, backup/recovery, DR/HA, database design, security management including data encryption/decryption, ETL, SSIS and SSRS. Ability to identify root causes, bottlenecks and other database issues to troubleshoot and resolve promptly. Skilled in high availability SQL Server solutions including Log Shipping, Mirroring, Replications, Always On Availability Groups.    I am an effective communicator with strong work ethic, exceptional relationship, management skills and ability to relate to people at any professional level.    Security Clearance: Clearable Work Experience SQL Server Database DBA/Admin OPTUM Care - Columbia, MD November 2015 to Present Key Accomplishments:  ? Capacity planning of MS SQL Servers  ? Working knowledge in Data Encryption and Decryption in database and column level for data security.  ? Configure and Maintain SQL Server 2005 to 2014 in Development, UAT and QA environment  ? Monitor and Maintain Replications and Cluster nodes for High Availability.  ? Maintained Fail-Over Cluster In SQL Server 2008 and 2012  ? Applied upgrade in SharePoint SQL Server 2005 to 2012 in QA and production environment  ? Moved Data/Log files to different allocated drives in different servers  ? Assisted support team to apply SQL Sentry side/side upgrade from 7.0 to 8.0 for monitor servers  ? Applied patch to SQL server 2008R2/2012 in Development, Test and UAT environment  ? Analyzed the root cause of variety Database Performance issues and resolved them time to time  ? Utilized DBCC to check database validity, health, conditions and performance periodically  ? Used SQL Sentry and SQL Profiler for Database monitoring and performance issue daily basis  ? Monitored and recommend ideas to create, modify, Index (Cluster/Non-Cluster), Constraints, Views, Stored Procedures, Triggers in various tables for better performance  ? Established E-R Diagram in SQL server 2000/2005 databases to build relationship between tables which was migrated from flat files in COBOL language  ? Exported & Imported data from Flat files to/from SQL Server Database  ? Worked with reporting team to help generated report using SSRS in Excel, html and text format  ? Implemented Replication strategy with central publication for High Availability solution  ? Resolve job failure related activities including backup, performance and disk space  ? Created different Maintenance Plans and automation to monitor databases for better performance  ? Solved various ticketing issues daily basis using JIRA as a third party tool  ? Support and manage a few production servers and issues with direct client  ? Monitor and administer SQL Servers/Databases daily basis and solved problems as needed  ? Work with PM, developers and vendors with logical solutions to meet project deadline    Work Environment: Windows Server 2012, 2008 R2, IIS 7.5, SQL Server 2014, 2012, 2008 R2, and applications in JavaScript, ASP and ASP.net. SQL Database Admin/Analyst M&T Bank - Buffalo, NY November 2013 to October 2015 Key Accomplishments:  ? Installed, Configured, and Maintained SQL Server 2012 and 2014 in test and Production environments  ? Upgraded both in place and side/side from SQL Server older version to higher version  ? Configured and Maintained Fail-Over Clustering using SQL Server 2012  ? Installed and Configured SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  ? Configured and Maintained Log Shipping and Mirroring for High Availability.  ? Migrated MS Access 2003/97 databases into MS SQL Server 2008 R2  ? Migrated Oracle 10gR2 and MySQL 5.1.23 databases to SQL Server 2008 R2 and 2012  ? Applied Patch (Service Pack) on SQL Server Instance as needed  ? Exercised time to time on database Performance tuning  ? Utilized DBCC to check database conditions and Rebuilding indexes as well  ? Strong working experience in creating, modifying tables, Index (Cluster/Non-Cluster), Constraints, Views, Stored Procedures and Triggers  ? Worked with developers supporting in query optimization  ? Data Modeling, established E-R Diagram, Reverse Engineering, Forward Engineering using ERwin and SSDD (SQL Server Data Diagram)  ? Export & Import data from/to databases like Oracle, MySQL and Access to/from SQL Server  ? Export & Import data from Flat file, CSV file to/from SQL Server Database using DTS, SSIS, and SSDT  ? Assisted to generate reports using SSRS in Excel, html and text as well  ? Excellent working experience in Database Backup, Restore and Point in Time Recovery  ? Working experience and strong knowledge in High Availability and Disaster Recovery solutions  ? Implemented different Maintenance Plans to scheduled jobs to automate different database related activities including backup, performance, optimization, disk space and memory usage  ? Used third party tool Service Now for ticketing and fixed issues accordingly  ? Monitored Server activity, error log, space usage and solved problems as needed    Work Environment: Windows Server 2012, 2008 R2, IIS 7.5, SQL Server 2012, 2008 R2, and applications in J2EE, PHP and ASP.net. SQL Database Administrator NBTY Inc - Bohemia, NY June 2012 to October 2013 Key Accomplishments:  ? Installed, Configured, and Maintained SQL Server 2008 and 2008 R2 in dev, test and prod environment  ? Configured database software, associated database tools and performance monitoring software.  ? Performed database/infrastructure physical design, database upgrades & applied software patches to databases as per application/client requirements.  ? Performed acceptance testing to verify that database changes perform without adverse consequences.  ? Customized support for Client's Applications and maintaining database objects and structures such as tables, indexes, views, triggers, functions, procedures.  ? Developed & maintained scripts, utility jobs or implement needed software for database maintenance.  ? Applied & managed SQL clustering, failover and load balance technologies per client requirement.  ? Developed & implemented a robust database backup and recovery strategy with client assistance.  ? Monitored data activities like database status, logs, space utilization, checkpoints, locks and blocks.  ? Suggested database application level tuning for queries and SQL objects for optimum performance.  ? Set up security and access profiles and procedures for database users.  ? Applied logical and physical data modeling for database design in SQL Server 2005, & 2008 R2.  ? Managed server and database level security by defining roles and rights to users.  ? Handled Fine Tuning Operating System in-coordination with Server and Network Administrator.  ? Monitored the database server performance and tuned using Idera.  ? Worked individually and as a proactive member of a team in daily activities.    Work Environment: Windows Server 2008 R2, 2003 R2, IIS 6.5, SQL Server 2008 R2, 2005, 2000, and applications in ASP. Education Bachelor's Skills ASP (6 years), DATABASE (6 years), DATABASES (6 years), MAINTENANCE (6 years), MS SQL SERVER (6 years) Certifications/Licenses ? Certified MCITP (Microsoft Certified IT Professional): 70-462 – Administering Microsoft SQL Server 2012/2014 ? Certified MCITP (Microsoft Certified IT Professional): 70-463 – Implementing a Data Warehouse with Microsoft SQL Server 2012/2014 Present Additional Information Technical Skills:    Database: SQL Server 2014, 2012, 2008 R2, 2005, 2000, MS Access, MySQL 5.1.25, 5.5  Operating System: Windows Server 2012, 2008 R2, 2003 R2, and Windows 10, 8, 7, XP  Languages: SQL, T-SQL, HTML, JavaScript, ASP, ASP.net  ETL Tools: DTS and SSIS  Reporting: SSRS (SQL Server Reporting Services)  Data Modeling: ERwin, Toad Data Modeler, SSDD (SQL Server Database Diagram)  Third-Party Monitoring Tools: SolarWinds, OpNet, SQL Sentry/SentryOne, RedGate  Ticketing System: JIRA, ServiceNow, BugZilla  Hardware/Storage: SAN, RAID  VMWare VMWare, VSphere  Domain/Active Directory AD Accounts create, manage    Key Skills:  ? Expertise in MSSQL Database Administration in server configuration, monitoring, performance tuning and maintenance with efficient troubleshooting capabilities  ? Installed, configured, monitored, troubleshooting and Administered of SQL Server 2014, 2012, and 2008 R2  ? Strong technical ability to perform business analysis, write effective documentations and specifications  ? Knowledgeable in T-SQL, stored procedures, triggers and functions  ? Installed, configured, and Administered SQL Server in Standalone and High Availability Environment: Clustering, AlwaysOn, Replication, Mirroring, and Log Shipping  ? Skilled in develop, deploy, and manage ETL operations by SSIS using DTS, BIDS and SSDT tools  ? Worked on Data Modeling including managing Data Dictionary with Toad Data Modeler, and ERwin tools  ? Experienced in using DMV and DMF  ? Worked briefly on Cluster (active/active and active/passive nodes)  ? Worked on multiple projects on Migration and Server Consolidation  ? Experienced in Security Management operations  ? Proficient in SQL Server Backup/Recovery and Disaster Recovery solutions  ? Obtained experience in DR process including Replication, Log Shipping and Database Mirroring  ? Experienced on SQL Server 2012 upgrade (in place and side/side) from SQL Server 2008 / 2005  ? Worked on SQL Server 2014 and 2012 database migration from SQL Server 2008 R2 and 2005  ? Maintained individual and group service accounts for SQL Server security  ? Worked in Data Center and including managing VLDB databases  ? Skilled in Import, Export, Backup, Database Monitoring tools and Application support  ? Implemented Linked Servers between SQL Server 2008 R2 & Oracle 9i and 10g  ? Strong knowledge in Integration Services (SSIS) and Reporting Services (SSRS)  ? Working knowledge in Data Encryption and Data Decryption for data security  ? Experienced in mentoring, coaching and writing documentation