Scrum Master Scrum Master Scrum Master - U.S Bank Cincinnati, OH Team-oriented scrum master capable of delivering large-scale software and Web  development projects on time and on budget. Over 7 years of IT experience working  with both offshore and onshore scrum teams as a servant leader and agile coach. Skilled  in building high performing teams by effectively collaborating, facilitating, leading and  coaching scrum team members in internalizing scrum values and agile best practices  Expert at driving the adoption and enforcement of Scrum rules, removing impediments  and fostering self-management. Capable of bringing overwhelming enthusiasm and  awareness to projects, applying expert judgment to the removal of impediments,  keeping teams focused in delivering high quality software Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Scrum Master U.S Bank - Milwaukee, WI May 2017 to Present Working with two ADM teams in end to end implementation and delivery of U.S  Bank's Unified Payments Interface (UPI) software applications  • Organizing and facilitating Scrum ceremonies and backlog refinement: Facilitating  daily stand-ups, sprint reviews, sprint demos and spring retrospectives  • Planned Agile best practices and encouraged team cohesion, overcoming  impediments and hurdles to productivity.  • Responsible for facilitating the creation and prioritization of the Product Backlog, establishing Sprint goals and Sprint Backlog during the Sprint Planning Meeting.  • Removing any impediments hindering team from workin and achieving sprint  goals.  • Vigorously participating in establishing and providing Vision to the team and gaining consensus base on Acceptance Criteria.  • Leveraging project metrics such as burn-down and velocity chats to judge project  progress while managing risks and impediments, stakeholder communication  plans, vendors, and other outsourced resources.  • Helping product owners in maintain the product backlog in a way that ensures the needed work is well understood so the team can continually make forward progress  • Providing status reports to business stakeholders, program managers, on new  enhancements to the work product, making sure it aligned to the stakeholders and customer's needs.  • Scheduling bug triage meetings, to assess priority of bugs and cleanup  • Empowering and Increasing collaboration amongst team members so they can be  self-organizing and self-managing themselves. ensuring the team is maximizing its  capacity and delivering valuable increments every 2 weeks Scrum Master NuStar Energy - San Antonio, TX July 2014 to February 2017 Facilitated the adoption and implementation of the Scrum framework - facilitating  sprint planning, backlog grooming, daily scrums, sprint reviews and sprint  retrospectives.  • Organized scrum meetings, enforcing time boxes and radiating information and project progress to project stakeholders as requested.  • Ensured our Jira task board was always up to date, and always visible to the development team  • Worked effectively with multiple Scrum teams, serving as a scrum master  simultaneously for two software teams with some offshore resources  • Collaborated with project members to identify and resolve issues/impediments  blocking teams from doing their work  • Helped the product owner in defining and maintaining the product backlog.  Coaching him on ways to maximize the value of the backlog and always keep it up to date with INVEST ready stories  • Managed and motivated project teams to promote collaboration and keep members  on-task and productive.  • Drove Scrum team progress to overcome obstacles and realize success throughout life of each sprint.  • Provided extensive guidance on Agile scrum processes and methodologies to highly  effective teams with goals of improving quality and productivity.  • Coached the development team to become self organized and cross - functional  team.  • Collaborated with other scrum masters and project managers to ensure high  quality integrated deliverables  • Facilitated effective Sprint Retrospectives to help my teams inspect and adapt our  scrum process. Ensuring everyone is heard and appreciated and always making  sure we craft good process improvement action items to enact in the next sprint. Database Administrator General Dynamics Information Technology - Warrenton, VA July 2012 to June 2013 • Extensively involved in installing the oracle RDBM software, creating and configuring the databases (PROD, DEV, and TEST)  • Monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise  Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control  • Implemented Flashback technology of the Oracle 11g, 10g for a faster recovery of the databases and database objects.  • Responsible for setting up environments like installing, maintaining Oracle 12c  RAC, Standby databases for High availability and Disaster recovery, upgrading and configuring the Oracle environment by creating databases, storage structures and  objects, database backup and recovery, monitoring and optimizing database  performance.  • Worked on all database activities such as User management, space management  and database security management on 10g, 11g and 12c databases on SOLARIS, LINUX and WINDOWS servers.  • Performed high level Troubleshooting and Tuning, Written Shell Scripts for monitoring performance and health checks using scripts, AWR, ASH, ADDM, SQL  tuning advisors and OEM.  • Installed 11g/12c software and created databases in RAC and non RAC  environments for new projects by interacting with multiple application teams.  • Analyzed the user requirements, designed partitioned tables and created indexes  for improving performance and manageability because many queries can prune  partitions.  • Hands on experience in enabling auditing and finding the schemas failed login  attempts, created and dropped users, granting and revoking rights as and when required.  • Proactively managed the databases, set up notifications, alarms using shell scripts  for managing any exceptions in day-to-day management of the databases.  • Expertise in Oracle networking, Performed Daily Monitoring of Oracle Instances, monitor users, and table spaces, Memory Structures, Rollback Segments, Logs and  Alerts. Education MBA in Engineering Management Southern New Hampshire University - Hooksett, NH May 2019 Skills Sql, Agile Scrum, Jira, Rally, Scrum Master, Versionone, Scrum, PM, Database, Certified Scrum Master, Kanban Additional Information SKILLS  • Project management • Capacity planning  • Agile Frameworks • Story Estimation  • Servant Leadership • Documentation management  • Conflict Resolution • Risk mitigation planning  • Strong communication skills • Quality assurance  • Stakeholder relations • Planning and implementation    TECHNICAL SKILLS  Familiar Technologies: Java, .Net, C#, C++, Python, Swift, React, Javascript, Angula  Node.Js,  Environment: Oracle 11g oracle 10g IBM AIX V6.1, RHEL 5.2, RAC, ASM, RMAN,  AWR, ADDM, SQL* Plus, SQL*Loader, OEM, TOAD 10.0. NOSQL  TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  Operating Systems HP-UX 10.x, 11.x. Sun Solaris 2.5, 2.6, 8, 9, 10. AIX 5.1, 5.2, 5.3,  6.1 RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x.Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10. Windows, RDBMS Oracle 10g,  11g Microsoft SQL Oracle 12C NOSQL  Database Utilities  SQL*Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Real Application Cluster, ASM, Transportable  Tablespaces, SQL*Loader, RMAN, DataPump, Export, Import  Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting, PERL.