BUSINESS MANAGER/PURCHASING COORDINATOR BUSINESS MANAGER/PURCHASING COORDINATOR Danbury, CT Focused, dependable team-player with 5 + years' experience and exceptional analytical  skills seeking a Database Administrator and/or IT Project Manager position. Work Experience BUSINESS MANAGER/PURCHASING COORDINATOR March 2017 to Present Tasks include personnel management, payroll management, creating purchase orders, invoice creation and follow-through. Monitors internal and economic trends to forecast SQL DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR KENNY'S CARPET ONE - Carmel, NY March 2015 to Present Built an in-house data server running SQL Standard 2014. Setup, maintains, and monitors the database backups. Deploys SQL scripts, data imports, data manipulation,  and data migrations. Uses Tableau for BI reporting. Monitors and implements an organization's technology infrastructure while building the most cost-effective and  efficient systems. Restores data, OS, files, documents, and drivers. sales and inventory March 2014 to Present Implemented new SEO and SEM strategies in addition to Google analytics to increase  website traffic. Oversaw general store operations, prioritizing and assigning tasks as appropriate. Managed sales department and selected, interviewed, hired and trained  candidates for store. Developed valuable contacts and helped drive over $200k in sales  per year, equivalent to 20% of the business's revenue.    FREELANCE EXPERIENCE  ELITE REMODELING-DANBURY, CT  THE PHOENIX AGENCY-FISHKILL, NY  MIKE'S MASONRY- SHRUB OAK, NY    Tasks include: website hosting setup, website design, server configuration, database  creation (using SQL), database administration, network security, malware/virus removal. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technologies in Cybersecurity SOUTHERN NEW HAMPSHIRE UNIVERSITY 2019 Skills Data manipulation, Database, Sql server, Replication, Sql, It infrastructure, Technology infrastructure, Backups, Migrations, Rdbms, Security, Optimization, Physical design, Capacity planning, Auditing, Maintenance, Archiving Additional Information SKILLS    • SQL Server 2014 installation, upgrades, patching, and configuration. Security  planning, review, and auditing.  • Responsible for maintaining, monitoring, and troubleshooting SQL Server  performance issues.  • Deploys SQL scripts, data imports, data manipulation, and data migrations.  • Setup, maintains, and monitors database backups.  • Performed database logical and physical design, maintenance, tuning, archiving,  backups, replication, recovery, software upgrades, capacity planning, and  optimization for SQL Server database.  • Primarily worked as a DBA in a SQL server environment using an industry specific  RDBMS that we integrated with our database.  • Plans, implements, and maintains the launch of new IT system projects.  • Monitors and implements an organization's technology infrastructure.  • Successfully launched an IT project to bring the organization from a 90% paper-  based system to a 95% digital system in under 8 months.  • Spec'd out server hardware and IT infrastructure hardware, documented personal  evaluations, built server/workstation computers, and migrated data from old system  to the new systems.  • Successfully planned, implemented, and maintained the complete launch of new IT  systems within the organization.  • Designed, developed and implemented all IT policies and procedures.