Senior Oracle Database Administrator Senior Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Oracle Database Administrator - Thomson Reuters Corporation Arizona City, AZ • More than 8+ years of professional work experience in the Software Industry as an Oracle Database Administrator, Golden gate Administrator and oracle application DBA (EBS)..  • Installation and configuration of Oracle . database 12c,11gr2, 10gR2, Oracle 9x, 8i and RAC.  • Installation and configuration of grid infrastructure and database for Real Application Clusters (RAC) 11gr2  • Implemented cluster configuration on ASM, NFS, OCFS storage  • Writing shell scripts, database scripts, Awk scripts and PERL scripts required for database maintenance, database synchronization, database refresh, database reporting, system accounting statistics, security fixing, backup and restore jobs and automation jobs  • Implemented Golden Gate Unidirectional and bidirectional replication.  • Bidirectional Streams Replication setup and maintenance.  • Experience working in various domains to deliver new products, upgrades. Resolve application problems to maintain high level of customer satisfaction.  • Experience in working with huge data centers and Worked on datacenter move projects  • Experience in Oracle Server installation, configuration, performance tuning, client/server connectivity, query optimization, applying patches and backup/recovery.  • Excellent experience in various migration techniques like export/import, Datapump, backup restore, cloning, data guard.  • Installed and configured Veridata for monitoring the Golden Gate replication during the upgrade from 10g to 11gR2.  • Handled out-of-sync from source to target and vice versa through veridata.  • Developed Recovery Manager (RMAN) scripts for database backup and recovery including hot and cold backup options for both RAC and stand alone instances.  • Extensive experience in Oracle Golden Gate installation, configuration, troubleshooting GG issues.  • Experience in Maintaining Oracle Data Guard & Standby Database and providing critical solutions with Strategic disaster recovery plans with different recovery procedures and methods.  • Automated many common tasks using Crontab including Backups, Exports/Imports, archiving old records and verification of such processes.  • Experience in writing scripts proactive monitoring like monitoring the disk usage and the memory usage of the server and monitoring tablespaces.  • Hands on experience in applying patches on Oracle 9.2.0.6 and 9.2.0.7, 10.2.0.1.0 and upgraded it to Oracle 11.2.0.3.  • Good understanding of Exadata features like smart scans, HCC, flash cache, Infiniband, ILOM  • Hands on experience with various tools like SQL*Loader, TOAD, Oracle SQL Developer and Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), Oracle Grid Control.  • Analyzed Automatic Workload Repository (AWR), Active Session History (ASH) reports.  • Experienced in generating statistics of database using ADDM.  • Tune the SGA components like buffer cache, shared pool to avoid paging & swapping.  • Hands on experience working with different FTP clients like Smart FTP, SFTP and SCP.  • Extensive experience in supporting multiple production databases running 24 x 7 mission-critical / OLTP applications demanding high availability and increased performance.  • Managing Exadata database for non-prod/prod environment.  • Performed data analysis and data profiling using complex SQL on various sources systems including Oracle and Netezza  • Experience working on Netezza  • Hands-on experience on implementing, upgrading and configuring the Golden Gate software for Oracle Database.  • Extensive experience on Classical, Integrated extract and replicat.  • Extensive experience on Golden Gate Heterogeneous replication using Golden gate  • Extensive experience on Golden Gate DDL Replication  • Troubleshooting golden gate extract/replicat issues like ORA-0001, ORA-1502, ORa-2291 etc.  • Analyzed Tables, Indexes periodically to optimize the SQL queries.  • Strong Knowledge and experience of Creating Users, Public Synonyms, Database Links, roles, profiles, privileges and assigning roles to users.  • Knowledge on Amazon web service(AWS) cloud.  • Experience in Capacity Planning, Storage Allocation and Space Monitoring & Management.  • Month end activities and database capacity planning and space management  • Extensive experience in Creation, maintenance, location, size of tablespaces, rollback segments and retention time for the flashback files.  • Proficient in SQL, PL/SQL such as Triggers and Stored Procedures.  • Developing complex shell scripts for backup, rotating logs/files, etc  • Highly motivated, excellent team player, enthusiastic, strong initiative and quick learner of new technologies, Strong interpersonal and communication skills.  • Configuring and Deploying Oracle Virtual Machine 2.X and 3.x for Linux.  • Managing virtual machines, server pool, resources etc Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Oracle Database Administrator Thomson Reuters Corporation - San Francisco, CA July 2017 to Present • Supporting more than 4500 databases including development/production for 24/7.  • Worked on multiple client environment including Eikon , Tax & accounting, Financial , banking , Cobalt , Content and analytics, state and county health agencies and other home medical care providers etc.  • Successfully upgraded Oracle 10g (10.2.0.4) to Oracle 11g (11.2.0.3) on Oracle Linux 6.  • Implemented Data guard, creating both Logical and Physical Standby databases in 11g RAC environment for the Production databases.  • Implemented golden gate bi-direction replication.  • Install, configure and provides technical support for Oracle 11g Release 2 RAC databases as well as non-RAC databases.  • Configured OEM 12c enterprise manager cloud control and upgraded various 10g agents to 12c agents.  • Involved in Applications 11i and R12(12.1 & 12.2) administration including 11i and R12(12.1 & 12.2) Database/Applications cloning, tuning, patching and monitoring concurrent manager processing etc.  • Implemented SQL outline to get the better execution plan for the offending queries. Setting up analyzing scripts and coordinated with development team to gather table statistics.  • Day to Day General Administration Tablespace Management, Undo Management, Managing Users, Resources, Managing User Privileges and Roles.  • Diagnosed Oracle bugs and coordinating with Oracle support through metalink to resolve them in timely manner.  • Scheduled meetings with application team for database migration review to gather legacy information such as type of application, database options, current oracle configuration, capacity and oracle outstanding tasks.  • Developed, revised and implemented policies, standards, procedures and guidelines necessary to effectively administer the database environments.  • Worked on GIT to pushing the shell scripts/SQL scripts to the central repository.  • Capture, Propagation, Apply using Golden Gate and enable real-time data integration and continuous data availability by capturing and delivering updates of critical information as the changes occur and providing continuous data synchronization across heterogeneous environments.  • Viewing the out-of-sync summary report from Oracle GoldenGate Veridata web interface and fixing the out-of-sync records  • Performing responsibility as Oracle Exadata Machine Administration.  • Oracle10g/11g Migration From Non exadata to Exadata DB with or without GoldenGate.  • Extensively developed PL/SQL Packages, Procedures, Functions, Triggers, and Sequences for implementing the business rules  • Maintaining sound backup and recovery policies and procedures using RMAN. Monitoring the scheduled backup procedures for daily basis using crontab.  • Database refreshes using export /import and datapump. Used AWR reports to monitor the database performance.  • Perform Backup and Recovery thru RMAN.  • Tested the initial data load option of Golden Gate during the environment build.  • Refreshed multiple databases for Development and Testing upon short request.  • Oracle services have been used to configure Golden Gate high availability for the RAC nodes.  • High availability of Golden Gate is achieved by creating Golden Gate vips and services for RAC databases. If one node is failed Golden Gate automatically failovers to the other node.  • Actively involved in designing/Testing of Disaster Crash recovery.  • Improving the performance of the database by tuning SQL and database instance parameters using Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor and SQL Tuning Advisor in Oracle 12c.  • Good understanding about histograms, cluster factor.  • Performed Export/Import through Data Pump.  • Performed Database Refreshes and Database Copies for Development, Test and Production databases.  • Involved in monitoring the lock processes, releasing locks in case of resource blockage and gathering statistics.  • Performed database cloning/exp/imp to setup identical databases in the production and development environments.  • Created and maintain users, roles and privileges.  • Involved in discussions with the management regarding the advantages/disadvantages and upgrade plans.  • Used Oracle 11g AWR & ADDM to monitor database activities and understand the db wait events, optimizer  • Performed Database Administration using TOAD, Oracle Enterprise Manager and SQL scripts.  • Installed, migrated, configured and tested Oracle 11g databases.  • Upgraded from 10g to 11gR2 with Golden Gate as the downtime is very less, also configured extract and replicat features.  • Installed and configured Veridata for monitoring the Golden Gate replication during the upgrade from 10g to 11gR2.  • Knowledge on Developer BI(business intelligence) & Analytics  • Viewing and generating report through Business intelligence.  • Closely worked with data services team in establishing backup, data retention, data archival policies and performance tuning of Netezza  • Performed data analysis and data profiling using complex SQL on various sources systems including Oracle and Netezza  • Created Wallet on RAC databases.  • Configured Oracle Data Guard and Streams.  • Monitoring Cassandra database and identifying the Tombstones and fixing the issues.  • Providing the best performance tuning tips to Cassandra application team.  • Worked on GIT for updating the code changes and also knowledge on Jenkins, Puppet/Chef.    Environment: Oracle 11GR2 , 10gR2, 9x, SQL, PL/SQL, Golden gate 11x, Sun Solaris, Red Hat(RHEL), OEM, and RMAN, RAC, OCFS, CRS, ASM, Shell Scripts, Net Backup, NAS, ZFS. Senior Oracle Database Administrator SEI investments - Oaks, PA July 2015 to May 2017 • Administrated and created production, development, and test Oracle 12c/11g databases hosted on Linux Server.  • Created Oracle Real Application Clusters RAC/Grid 11g on aix/Linux with SCAN and ASM  • Defined database migration strategy to relocate production database to new Linux servers.  • Configured OEM 12c monitoring .Created rules to send out mission critical alerts from production database.  • Backup and recovered test and development databases using RMAN and DataPump.  • Defined Oracle11g upgrade strategy for production, development, and test databases.  • Measured the performance of the shell scripts by getting the expected results.  • Installed and configured 10g/ 11g RAC databases with ASM/non ASM on Linux servers  • Upgraded database from 11g to 12c both RAC and Non RAC including Standby databases.  • Supported failover and switchover of Standby Databases during Disaster Recovery  • Created and maintained Databases and their objects like tablespaces, tables, indexes, views.  • Experience in 10g RAC and 11g RAC configuration, maintenance and support.  • Experience in Oracle 11g/12c Real Application Clusters RAC , Oracle Data Guard, Oracle Automatic Storage Management ASM  • Migrated Stand alone databases on file system to RAC databases on ASM.  • Applied patches regularly on Oracle 11g/10g Clusterware and RAC databases.  • Installed, setup and configured Oracle Enterprise Manager Cloud Control 12c for administration, performance tuning, monitoring and alerts.  • Added and deleted RAC nodes as per the application requirement  • Worked on major issues involving 10g/11g databases on 11g R2 Grid/RAC and 11g ASM.  • Configured ASM Cluster File System ACFS for 11gR2 Grid/RAC cluster.  • Create or clone the Oracle Instance and Databases on ASM. Perform database cloning and re-location activities.  • Configured RMAN backups on tape for TSM for both test and production databases.  • Created RMAN scripts for daily as well as monthly backup's using autosys.  • Worked on various Rman scripts for taking full backup and incremental backup for production databases  • Wrote several scripts to automate cloning of database from production to test through rman on weekly basis.  • Performed Database cloning using Datapump , Rman Duplicate and Cold backup restore  • Partitioned appropriate tables to optimize performance and simplified maintenance work.  • Tuned and optimized SQL Query, SGA, Disk I/O using Oracle Enterprise Manager and by monitoring the Awr report generated from snapshots taken at the peak business hours.  • Monitored and tuned rollback segment, temporary tablespaces, redo log buffer, sort area size.  • Added a node at the RDBMS layer in a RAC Environment  • Created multiple standby databases and Set up Snap shot standby database using data guard broker.  • Supported disaster recovery by opening the standby databases in read write mode  • Set up scripts to monitor log apply on Standby Database  • Rebuilt Multiple Standby databases 10G and 11G  • Created numerous Materialized view groups involving huge tables.  • Worked on Performance tuning with AWR, ADDM, SQL Tuning advisor, SQL Trace and TKProf.  • Experince in Database design on OLTP and OLAP databases and maintained database security create and maintain users and roles, assign privileges  • Coded BASH, PERL scripts to maintain database change management and data management  • Coded BASH, PERL scripts to automate backup and recovery procedures for various versions of database.  • WORKED ON Debugging, Optimizing and Performance Tuning of Oracle BI Dashboards/Reports  • Tuned database/cluster/ASM according to application requirements.  • Tuned long running queries by tk prof and explain plan and hints.  • Worked on all types of partitions .Set up partition strategy involving tables with million of rows to improve performance.  • Created Hash , Range partitions on huge tables and worked on Partition pruning on SQL.  • Worked on GoldenGate Replication and Configured Extract, Replicate processes for GoldenGate.  • Installed database for Siebel replication using Golden Gate 11g    Environment: Oracle 11GR2, 10gR2, 9x, SQL, PL/SQL, Golden gate 11x, Sun Solaris, Red Hat(RHEL), OEM, and RMAN, RAC, OCFS, CRS, ASM, Shell Scripts, Net Backup, NAS, ZFS. Senior Oracle Database Administrator Sony Corporation of America - San Diego, CA September 2014 to July 2015 • Installation, maintenance and tuning of RAC and standby databases OLTP, DSS and Data Warehousing using customized shell scripts  • Creating ASM instance/maintaining ASM (adding , removing disk to disk group etc)  • Ensuring that all databases are backed up on a regular basis by monitoring full, differential, transaction log backups for OLTP, warehouse, and business object repositories.  • Applied patches to Oracle Databases.  • Upgrading development and production databases to Oracle 11gR2.  • Proactive database monitoring using 11g grid monitoring tool.  • Database tuning using SQL-Trace, STATSPACK, EXPLAIN PLAN and TKPROF.  • Extensive Performance Tuning, Memory (SGA) Tuning.  • Performed database cloning to setup test and development databases.  • Responsible for optimizing the queries and application tuning.  • Performed SQL tuning and assist developers with coding PL/SQL.  • Provided support to Application Database Administrators in designing the database.  • Used RMAN for backup and recovery. Performed Hot, Cold and Logical backups. And performed backup validations using RMAN.  • Setup Golden Gate parameter files for extraction and replication.  • Management of schemas, objects partitioning the tables & indexes.  • Automation of data load using Korn shell scripting and SQL*Loader.  • Responsible for setting and managing user accounts, and granting required privileges to users.  • Recovering GoldenGate corruptions.  • Viewing the out-of-sync summary report from Oracle GoldenGate Veridata web interface and fixing the out-of-sync records  • Performed other DBA activities like including space management and performance monitoring.  • Analyzing the db wait events from the awr/ash report and take necessary action.  • Replicated Data using Golden data for encrypted columns (Wallet).  • Experienced in Oracle Database monitoring, troubleshooting and resolve the issues.  • Experience in installation of Cassandra on 16-node cluster  • Good understanding of Cassandra architecture like gossip, snitch, seed node, anti entropy, partition key, hash value, etc.  • Experience in monitoring and tuning Cassandra clusters, performance and capacity  • Experience in nodetool for managing a Cassandra cluster    Environment: Oracle 11GR2 , 10gR2, SQL, PL/SQL, Golden gate 11x, Red Hat Linux (RHEL), OEM, and RMAN, RAC, OCFS, CRS, ASM, Shell Scripts, Net Backup, NAS, Exadata, Cassandra Senior Oracle Administrator Bayer Business Services - Pittsburgh, PA February 2012 to July 2014 • Assisted in detailed architecture, consulting, engineering, implementation and support for database availability, backup and recovery, and performance tuning projects  • Support for Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control 13c and Agents  • Validation of Privileged accounts and database violation using PL/SQL coding to ensure successful audit on Exadata  • Planning, coordinating and delivering the migration of Oracle 11.2.0.4 to Oracle 12.2.0.1 on EXADATA X5-2  • Ensure hardening and validation of Oracle database 12c R2 12.2.0.1 on EXADATA X5-2, after migration from 11.2.04  • Implementation and support of 11g and 12c migrations and upgrades from Oracle 9i and 10g databases, including RAC databases on HP-UX and Linux.  • Installed and configure extract, pump, replicate, manager parameter file of GoldenGate  • 3rd level support for Oracle RAC, including applying patches, performance tuning, backup and recovery issues with RMAN, trace analysis, service creation, and cluster and system management  • Extensive knowledge in configuring Data guard on Linux & multiplexing of control files and redo-logs for disaster recovery scenario  • Performance monitoring and tuning up of the Database using ASH, STATSPACK, AWR, ADDM.  • Performance tuning of Oracle Database Objects by fixing row chaining, tuning queries.  • Monitoring and tuning system resources associated with the database performance, hit ratios, I /O, lock, and latch contention  • Detecting and diagnosing production system performance problem by analyzing STATSPACK reports, Oracle trace and log files, AWR, ADDM, analyzing SQL statements, measuring system and database activity, Querying Oracle dynamic performance views  • Implemented RMAN backup (Full, incremental and cumulative) and recovery, Incomplete recovery and disaster recovery using Standby database or Data Guard  • Setup, Configured and Maintained Oracle Data Guard to control Primary and Standby Databases and also to ensure disaster recovery using various data protection modes  • Data loading using SQL*LOADER and DATAPUMP  • Developed Operation procedures for Managed Service Transition  • Closely worked with MatrixONE and MKS Application support team resolving issues pertaining to the application & databases  • Provide after hours 24x7(on-call rotation) database support  • Maintained 335 Databases, Implemented 50+ Production database, 60+ Development database, 75+ Test database  • Managed Process using Change control and Cab process and meetings  • Implementation of the databases of the Amazon RDS and carried out functionalities for creating instances as per the requirements  • Implemented and provisioned AWS services like EC2, S3, ELB, RDS, Simple DB, Cloud Front, Cloud Formation templates and heat templates  • Built AWS Cloud Formation templates to create custom sized VPC, subnets, NAT to ensure successful deployment of Web applications and database templates and heat templates    Environment: IBM AIX 6.3,7.1, Sun Solaris 2.6/7/8, Red Hat Linux 5.x,6.x, Oracle 10g/11g/12c, PL/SQL, SQL*PLUS, VNC, OEM 13c , Oracle 12c, Oracle RAC, Data guard, Toad 12.5, AD utilities, SQL server, TKPROF, AWS -RDS, Redshift, Simple DB Oracle Application Database Administrator Directv - Los Angeles, CA November 2010 to February 2012 ore    • Designing and migrating applications among different environments and providing 24*7 production Support  • Installation and configuration of Oracle databases (single instance) as well as 3 node RAC instances in 11g  • Resolving ASM multi-pathing issues  • Active duplicate cloning of the databases using RMAN  • Cloning from cold backup using RMAN  • Perform refreshes from non-RAC database to a RAC environment  • Upgrading production environments from 11g to 12c  • Monitored the SQL and Oracle RDBMS through the integrated Enterprise Manager of the 12-c Grid Control software  • Involved in testing several 11g release 2 features in Oracle and upgraded several instances from 10g to 11g  • Moving PL/SQL-codes into production and validating the codes and tuning the SQL statements before using them in production environments  • Responsible for moving data from Production to lower environments for various testing cycles using Oracle data pump and also refresh the UAT and Test environments with Prod data  • Supported large data warehousing systems with a capacity ranging from 2 TB to 15 TB  • Writing scripts in BOURNE and KORN shells for executing backups and other DML triggers  • Monitoring the bash scripts and profile parameters in the UNIX and RHEL Linux environment for setting the ORACLE environmental variables  • Configure and manage RMAN backup using OEM GRID  • Extensive performance tuning experience, specializing in Operating system tuning, SQL tuning, Database/Instance tuning  • Resolve issues during migration from different ASM disk groups following up with Oracle  • Administrate RAC service with SRVCTL  • Manage the Cluster Services in case of any abnormal failures  • Worked with users in tuning their bad SQL and high load SQL queries  • Data guard setup and configuration for physical standby with consistent switchover and failover drills for maximum availability  • Generating AWR reports on regular basis to identify the database performance at peak load  • Making use of 11g Release 2 features like ADRCI  • Worked with the storage teams to monitor and administer the storage plans for the DBs through VERITAS volume manager and Linux volume manager for RHEL 4.0  • Worked on HP UX platform and logically migrated data from UNIX to Linux (OEL 5.4) through Data Pump  • Strong knowledge and experience of managing Oracle 9i and 10g RAC environments using the OEM Grid Control tools    Environment: Oracle 10g RAC, Oracle 9i, HP-UX 10.x, AIX, Red hat Linux, TOAD, OEM, STATSPACK, TKPROF, SQL, Erwin 4.0, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), SQL*Loader, TKPROF, Data Guard, Shell Scripts Education Bachelor's Skills DATABASE (10+ years), ORACLE (10+ years), PL/SQL (10+ years), RMAN (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), DBA, Sql Dba, Oracle Dba, MYSQL, Sql Database, Documentum, Linux, Sql Server, DB2, ASM, Oracle Database, RAC Additional Information Technical Skills    RDBMS-Oracle database 9i, 10g, 11g and 12c  APPLICATIONS-Oracle 11i (11.5.8 to 11.5.10.2 , R12.)  GOLDENATE-11.x,12.x etc.  Languages-SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting,  Oracle Tools-Oracle Applications Manager, Oracle Enterprise Manager, TOAD, OUI, RMAN, ASMCMD, TKPROF, autoconfig, adadmin, adpatch, FNDLOAD, , STATSPACK, Logminer, SQL Loader, AWR report, Server control Command Line (SRVCTL), Data guard Broker Command line (DGMGRL), Golden Gate, Stream/Xstreams and ADE, GGSCI, Oracle Virtual Machine 2.X and 3.x , nodetool.  Tuning Tools -TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK,ASH, AWR, ADDM  Operating Systems-Linux, RHEL, Windows x64, Solaris Sparc64, AIX, HP-UX IA