Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator Lone Jack, MO Talented Database Administrator with broad background in data-mining/reporting, information technology, benefits and payroll administration. Strengths include excellent verbal and written communication, strong analytical and problem-solving skills and working as part of a team or independently. Expert attention to detail and dedication to providing world-class service. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator The Whole Person - Kansas City, MO January 2015 to June 2017 • Manage a staff of 4 in the Fraud/Audit Compliance Department who process investigations into program compliance and Medicaid fraud in association with payroll and billing as well as management of the file room.  • Processed Quarterly and Annual 704 Reports for Federal and State grant purposes.  • Managed record requests from Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services and Missouri Medicaid Audit and Compliance Unit.  • Data mined for inconsistencies in reporting data and implemented policies of efficiency to minimize error including designing workflows and meta data labeling in preparation for the new Enterprise Content Management system.  • Designed scripts in Crystal Reports to produce financial reports for payroll and taxes.  • Implemented an all-in-one solution for Electronic Visit Verification, Payroll, Billing and Case management through HHA Exchange.  • Point person for troubleshooting many company-wide issues on an everyday basis with such as Microsoft Office, Adobe Acrobat E-Forms, and IT needs  • Established compatibility with third party software products by developing program for modification and integration.  • Provided continued maintenance and development of bug fixes and patch sets for existing web applications  • Implemented company policies, technical procedures and standards for preserving the integrity and security of data, reports and access.  • Designed strategic plan for component development practices to support future projects.  • Managed creative projects from concept to completion while managing outside vendors.  • Developed work-flow charts and diagrams to ensure production team compliance with client deadlines. Director of Support Systems The Whole Person - Kansas City, MO January 2013 to January 2015 • Managed and designed the implementation of new processes and systems and the upkeep of current software to support the company's growth and quality of service delivery to consumers.  • Attend state quarterly meetings to stay up-to-date with Consumer Directed Services Program changes.  • Administered company access to CyberAccess, E-Verify, Family Care Safety Registry, Employee Disqualification List, CYMA, EMOMED, Amber Clinic Manager, New Hire Reporting web site, Skylight, MITC, HHA Exchange, Global Cash Card System).  • Backup Payroll Administrator in processing staff payroll and paying taxes through QuickBooks, Paycor and company bank.  • Utilized a pipe and filter model to find bottlenecks and enable measurement of system resource usage and process behavior at boundary limits of all operations.  • Recommended architectural improvements, design solutions and integration solutions.  • Provided methodologies for object-oriented software development and efficient database design. Payroll Manager The Whole Person - Kansas City, MO January 2010 to January 2013 • Managed Consumer Directed Service multi-state program payroll, employer taxes, and Medicaid billing for 1200 employers and 1500 employees using Medicaid billing functions for consumers using Microsoft Office, CYMA, and Amber Clinic Manager.  • Managed a staff of eight who paid and billed Medicaid biweekly (over 1000) time sheets.   • Assisted staff with customer service calls from employers and employees.  • Reconciled all payroll liabilities to the general ledger and prepared monthly payroll accrual entries.  • Managed and remained up-to-date on multi-state sales and use tax filings and set up new states as needed.  • Ensured that proper internal controls over the tax compliance process were in place and routinely  • Reviewed, investigated and corrected errors and inconsistencies in financial entries, documents  • Completed payroll functions for consumers of the Missouri Medicaid Program, Consumer Directed Services.  • Processed terminations.    Payroll Specialist  The Whole Person - Kansas City, MO    Services using Microsoft Office and ADP Pay Expert.  Perform customer service for both consumers and attendants.  Assist co-workers in the completion of their job duties  Processed terminations.    Release Specialist  James B Nutter & Company - Kansas City, MO  Processed the release of loans with other companies and local county entities.  Entered data entry of loans. Handled customer service phone calls.    Office Manager / Designer  Extreme Signs - Independence, Missouri  Performed all Payroll and Accounting functions using Quick Books.  Helped design and produce vinyl signage.  Assisted with inventory.  Handled customer service phone calls.  Coordinated with systems partners to finalize designs and confirm requirements.  Streamlined and enhanced the corporate accounting and operations system. Education High School Diploma Center Place Restoration School - Independence, MO Associate of Applied Science in Information Technology Metropolitan Community College - Kansas City, MO Skills Database (4 years), database design. (2 years), Microsoft Office (5 years), MS OFFICE (5 years), payroll (7 years), Human Resource, Adp Payroll, ADP, Payroll Tax Certifications/Licenses Fundamental Payroll Certification (APA) August 2016 to August 2019 Additional Information Skills  • Extensive Microsoft Office knowledge.  • Database design with SQL Server and Microsoft Access.  • Work well in challenging environments and Excellent problem-solving abilities situations.  • System upgrades Data backup and retrieval  • Resourceful and quick learner. Brand development  • Attention to detail   • Excellent communication skills  • Payroll administration experience   • Excellent diagnostic skills  • Project management  • Diplomatic  • Processing garnishments