Data Warehouse Eng Data Warehouse Eng Data Warehouse Eng - NT Concepts, VA Work Experience Data Warehouse Eng NT Concepts, VA March 2018 to Present * Managing Users, Privileges and Roles.  * Manage day-to-day efforts toward project accomplishments with general direction from senior  technical staff  * Creation and maintenance of back-up jobs using datapump expdp/impdp  * Apply quarterly patch on Oracle db 12c  * Use the NzAdmin/NZMigrate tool for typical administrative tasks, including Genstats, Groom, and manage Development to Production environments  * Troubleshoots difficult database problems, including slow running queries  * Create, test, implement and monitor an automated set of procedures for database and server  backups as well as necessary maintenance procedures  * Works closely with Developers, Testers, Architects, Business Analysts and other IT staff to implement  Database Administration standards, policies, methods, and procedures building consensus with all  Parties Managed service dba consultant Mythics, Inc. - Falls Church, VA May 2016 to October 2018 configures, upgrades, and maintains production, development and test databases.  * Managing Users, Privileges and Roles.  * Provides operational support in managed services, troubleshooting and issue resolution for mission critical databases, applications and related systems.  * Responsible for providing 24x7 support to Clients across the country.  * Proactively monitor, report, troubleshoot, escalate and resolve technical issues with Oracle and MSSQL databases and associated systems  * Provide technical troubleshooting on issues requiring rapid resolution related to Oracle Database, Oracle Engineered Systems Exadata, Oracle Engineered Systems, Super Cluster Server.  * Log support requests with Oracle My Oracle Support and/or Microsoft Support as required  * Performed backups, restores, cloning, or refreshing databases.  * Ensured availability of client production systems and internal instances.  * Monitor and optimize performance, resources, availability, and operation of all systems.  * Create or clone the Oracle Instance and Databases on ASM/filesystem. Perform database cloning and re-location activities.  * Manage day-to-day efforts toward project accomplishments with general direction from senior technical staff  * Review and ensure quality of customer support and service request processing with promptness and analyze relevant database logs and operating system logs  * Managing table spaces, data files, redo logs, tables and its segments.  * Monitors database activity and file usage, and ensures necessary resources are present so that databases function properly by removing or deleting old or obsolete files.  * Perform Windows Server and UNIX system administrator tasks as part of maintenance  * Design backup strategy using RMAN  * Apply systems analysis techniques and procedures to identify and resolve database issues  * Documenting processes, standards and methodologies for working with client data and systems  * Developing, updating and maintaining reporting processes and tools  * Communication ability by participating in regular Conference calls and Technical mail exchanges with the international clients. Database Operator/Technician (DOS) Mythics, Inc. - Falls Church, VA April 2015 to April 2016 Provide operational support, troubleshooting and issue resolution for mission critical databases, applications and related systems. Works as a collaborative member of the Operational Support team that is responsible for providing 24x7 support to Department of State clients across the globe. Support is provided to a major 5-year program supporting the Department of State Consular Affairs' mission to protect the lives and interests of American citizens living or traveling abroad, and to enhance the national security of the United States.  Responsibilities include:  * Participates as an active member of the operational support team to monitor, report, troubleshoot, escalate and resolve technical issues with Oracle and MSSQL databases and associated systems  * Execute SQL queries against Oracle and MSSQL databases  * Transferring, cleaning and validating client data  * Documenting processes, standards and methodologies for working with client data and systems  * Developing, updating and maintaining reporting processes and tools  * Monitor database using Oracle enterprise Manager 12c  * Provide extensive customer support to Government officials  * Perform administrative tasks for operational support team  * Works as site administrator on the largest database for Dos Oracle Database Administrator(Tier I) AINET Consulting Group, Inc July 2014 to April 2015 • Configured new hardware and software releases.  • Created and managed user accounts, profiles and system policies.  • Planning, installation, configuration, management and troubleshooting of oracle 11g databases on Linux and Windows OS  • Installation and Management of Oracle using Grid 11g and database control by installing the software and agent, this I used to manage multiple databases.  • Installation and application of several oracle critical patches to various database versions looked for critical path for the OS and had to check the location of my O-Patch.  • Monitored, optimized and allocated physical data storage for database systems  • Implemented the use of Oracle Recovery Manager (RMAN) to back up the databases.  • Performed import and export as needed on each database.  • Performed various daily RMAN backups and recovery for numerous oracle 11g databases using physical back (RMAN) and logical backup (export, import and data pump).  • 24/7 production environment support  • Install and configure Physical Standby on Linux environment.  • Manage Data Guard using Data Broker.  • Troubleshoot and resolved various oracle problems such as connectivity problems, back up and performance issues  • Provided Oracle network troubleshooting, technical and administrative duties  • Resolved complex database issues.  • Created and managed documentation on the configuration and support of the oracle databases. Education B.S Towson University - Baltimore, MD 2014 Skills DATA MIGRATION, MICROSOFT SQL SERVER, MICROSOFT SQL SERVER 2008, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2008, ORACLE, PL/SQL, REPLICATION, SQL, RMAN, UNIX, LINUX, RDBMS, ETL, Oracle Dba, DBA, Sql Dba