Financial Analyst Financial Analyst Niantic, CT Work Experience Financial Analyst Goodwin College - East Hartford, CT 2017 to Present ? Create new automated and interactive dashboards in order to assess the college’s financial status  ? Run and analyze monthly expense reports, identifying sources of unfavorable variances from budget  ? Communicate between administrative, programmatic, and financial departments to develop the college’s annual budget  ? Consolidate financial information into a monthly report for the Board of Trustees, forecasting financial risks and opportunities  ? Develop various financial models as needed Accounting Assistant 4AllPromos/4AllGifts - Essex, CT 2016 to 2017 ? Managed incoming/outgoing payments for multi-million dollar company  ? Created sales and expense reports  ? Generated aging reports and initiate efforts to secure payment from delinquent customers, significantly reducing overdue bills  ? Assisted with reconciling bank statement with company records Database Administrator Saybrook Country Barn 2015 to 2016 ? Generated purchase orders and invoices  ? Managed team of 3-4 product receiving employees and created procedures that substantially reduced  discrepancies during annual inventory count  ? Led project to create digital price lists for employees to refer to on tablets Substitute Teacher East Lyme Public Schools 2011 to 2013 ? Managed K-12 classrooms  ? Tutored town MathCounts team, finishing second place in state competition and sending one student to national competition Education Bachelor's in Mathematics University of Connecticut - Storrs, CT August 2007 to May 2011 Skills Accounting, Forecasting, Budgeting, Financial Reporting, Pivot Tables, Financial Analysis, Microsoft Word Assessments Accounting: Basic Principles — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to prepare financial records according to federal policies. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ftrwjxdfzjgufne6 Project Management Skills: Budgeting — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to manage project budgets by appropriately allocating and monitoring financial resources. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/aqhixmffg04hnrof Data Analysis — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jbnstxyelufvav2r Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dc0fhmlpbhsjyglc Business Math — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to use basic math to solve problems in a business context. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ns3j1xh5tbkqyrhc Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.