Scrum Master Scrum Master Scrum Master - AKS Cyber Tech Inc Silver Spring, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Scrum Master AKS Cyber Tech Inc - Lorton, VA January 2016 to Present • Responsible for facilitating Daily Stand-Up, Sprint Planning, Sprint Review/Demo, and Sprint Retrospective meetings.  • Served as point of contact and assisted with internal/external communications.  • Facilitate team discussions, decision making, and resolving conflict for the teams.  • Built relationship with Product owner and other stakeholders to facilitate communication between scrum team and stakeholders.  • Coached new team members and transition teams on agile principles and providing general guidance on Scrum to enhance skills level.  • Assisted Product Owner to Prioritize and Groom the Product Backlog using the DEEP Concept.  • Engaged with other Scrum Masters to increase the effectiveness of the application of Scrum in the organization.  • Ensure the DoD (definition of done) is met before user story is in Done State/status.  • Coached team members on agile principles and providing general guidance on the Agile Methodologies.  • Experience in working within a team using Agile concepts and methodologies including Scrum and Kanban (SCRUMBAN)  • Encouraged a friendly and respectful working environment to increase effective communications among team members.  • Collaborate closely with Product Owner and team on Backlog Refinement/Grooming to keep Product Backlog relevant and prioritized ensuring Acceptance Criteria are agreed upon and stories are ready for sizing.  • Serve as information radiator for internal and external communication and improving transparency.  • Engaged with Product owner and development team to ensure project goals and requirements are being met by teaching and ensuring that scrum is being used correctly.  • Assess the teams Scrum Maturity and encouraging continuous improvement by coaching and workshops.  • Made sure task boards are being updated to ensure transparency and effective communication.  • Help team to solve problems rather than provide solutions  • Track and communicate team Velocity and Sprint/Release progress to management and affected teams.  • Work with Product Owner and cross-functional team to groom User Stories on business value using the INVEST concept and 3Cs.  • Protect development team from outside distractions, Impediments or team conflicts and maintain focus on Sprint Backlog and project timeline.  • Participate in the Scrum of Scrums meetings to provide update of progress, escalates and resolve impediments and collaboration with other teams.  • Ensure the DoD (definition of done) is met before User Story is in Done State/status. Security Control Assessor Integrated Systems October 2013 to April 2015 • Strong familiarity with National Institute of Technology (NIST) Information Security Documents; NIST guidelines FIPS 199, Special Publication 800-53, 800-30, 800-37, 800-60, and Assessment and Authorization (A&A) process  • Experience interacting directly with multiple clients to conduct Kickoff and weekly meetings to deliberate on findings, and participate in a team effort to bring complex projects to meet schedule and deadlines  • Experience reviewing systems and network vulnerability assessments scans using Qualys Guide, Nessus  • Experience documenting NIST 800-53 security control compliance findings within Requirements Traceability Matrixes (RTMs) and Security Assessment Reports (SARs).  • Experience in conducting interviews with Stakeholders to ensure appropriate client artifacts are collected timely to satisfy assessment requirements and understand more about the clients' information system  • Identify system vulnerabilities and develop remediation plans and security procedures for potential risk  • Experience conducting security control assessment based in NIST 800-53 Rev 4, and 800-53A guidelines to ensure that implemented security controls are effective and operating as intended by FISMA, and OMB CIRCULAR A-130 guidelines  • Experience interpreting and evaluating implementations about security impact levels for confidentiality, integrity and availability with the Information System Owner (ISO), and present corrective actions to remediate identified vulnerabilities, with established schedules and deadlines created in a Plan of Action and Milestone (POA&M)  • Experience developing and promulgating Security Assessment Plans (SAP) ORACLE DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Pacific Systems - McDonough, GA September 2009 to October 2013 • Performed database performance tuning using AWR and ADDM reports.  • Used SQL Tuning advisor and Segment advisor  • Applied latest CPU patches and resolved various bug patches  • Performed 24/7 database support of all Oracle databases, ensured compliance with Oracle  license agreement, providing support for both Oracle in a Sun Solaris (UNIX) Enterprise  Server environment.  • Administered oracle backup with RMAN for full database backup and incremental backup.  RMAN scripting for full database restore/recovery, point-in-time recovery, and automated  backup and notification.  • Performed general technical troubleshooting and supported developers in tuning DB and apps for optimal performance.  • Monitored space usage and adjust database parameters as needed.  • Monitored backup operations and schedules manual backups as needed.  • Worked with system administrators to configure the system for optimal performance. Education Security+ Certification Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma, Edo State Skills Scrum Master