SQL/ETL Developer SQL/ETL Developer SQL/ETL Developer - Express Capital Funding Anaheim, CA 5+ years of professional experience with knowledge in Data Modeling, Data Warehouse, ETL, T-SQL development, MS Business Intelligence Tools like (SSIS, SSAS and SSRS) in SQL Server 2017/2014/ 2012/2008R2/2008/2005.  3 years of professional experience with knowledge in building and configuring windows servers, and supporting the network.    • Developed SSIS ETL packages to meet data flow needs.  • Created Parameterized reports and Linked reports and thorough knowledge of report serving architecture using SSRS.  • Involved in troubleshooting the stored procedures, functions, views, triggers and part to be increasing the performance tuning.  • Wrote several SQL Scripts such us finding tables that have Identity Columns, finding tables that do not have primary key.  • Developed and performed data modeling studies, support data selection, extraction and cleansing of mediation applications.  • Used Joins, correlated and non-correlated sub-queries for complex business queries involving multiple tables from different databases.  • Automated the SSIS jobs in SQL scheduler as SQL server agent job for daily, weekly and monthly loads.  • Extensively involved in replication and implemented Snapshot, Merge and Transactional Replications.  • Extensively used Joins and Sub-Queries to simplify complex queries involving multiple tables and established relationships between tables using Primary Key & Foreign Key  • Managed source code, keeping track of project deliverability such as defects, requirements, tasks and versioning control with the using of Team Foundation Server.  • Determine how useful using an index is and if an index is improving or hindering application performance.  • Created stored procedures for generating reports using SQL Server Reporting Services.  • Experience in working with multiple cross functional teams under strict deadlines. Efficient in creating joins and sub-queries involving multiple tables.  • Enhanced performance of databases using optimization techniques-normalization, indexing and Transaction Isolation levels, monitoring logs to ensure the completeness of batch processes, scripts and processes.  • Supported Application Development team with any database issues, updates or new releases and deadlock issues, best practices in structuring SQL Queries, debugging unexpected SQL results, etc.  • Worked and delivered time sensitive production support tickets and escalations.  • A well-organized, goal-oriented, highly-motivated effective team member with excellent analytical, troubleshooting, and problem solving skills. Work Experience SQL/ETL Developer Express Capital Funding - Anaheim, CA January 2018 to Present Roles and Responsibilities:  * Design and provide technical support of databases for specific user requirements. Performs development and implementation of data specifications, designs, integration, testing, and documentation.  * Assist with technical support, analytic activities and other duties as directed by supervisor.  * Develop understanding of client business processes, objectives, and solution requirements.  * Develop understanding of application processes, coding standards, and performance standards while learning existing and new processes and technologies.  * Involved in various ETL activities that includes designing, developing, implementing, and support for Data Warehouse using ETL tools.  * Experience with ETL process involves gathering user requirements, preparing detailed documents for the Source/Target mapping.  * Expertise in OLTP/OLAP system study, Good experience building Star schema and Snowflake schema depending on the business data requirements.  * Write T-SQL statements for retrieval of data and involved in performance tuning of T-SQL queries and Stored Procedures.  * Implement complex business logic with Store procedures, User Defined Functions, Views and write T-SQL batches with CTE (Common Table Expressions) for recursive operations.  * Plan, design and document the optimum usage of space requirements and distribution of space for the Data Warehouse.  * Identify, testify and resolve database performance issues (monitoring and tuning) to ensure database optimization.  * Created clustered and non-clustered indexes on tables for new database to faster retrieval of data for the Reports.  * Examine and evaluate the data structures in the source and enhanced the old logical and physical database design to fit new business requirement, and implemented new design into SQL Server 2008 R2/2012.  * Write complex store procedures for data profiling process needed to define the structure of the pre staging and staging area, as well as triggers for consistency checks.  * Experience in writing complex SQL queries involving multiple table's inner and outer joins, stored procedures.  * Involved in analysis, design and development of large databases to solve complex business problems.  * Design of the Database and the Tables and built table relationships with other team member.  * Develop SQL scripts to Insert/Update and Delete data in MS SQL database tables.  * Wrote complex SQL statements using joins, sub queries and correlated sub queries.  * Create complex Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions, Indexes, Tables, Views and other T-SQL code and SQL Joins for applications.  * Optimize query performance by creating indexes, including covered non-cluster indexes to speedup table look up  * Enhancing and deploying the SSIS packages from development server to production server and scheduled jobs for executing the stored SSIS packages which were developed to update the database on Daily/Weekly/Monthly basis.  * Support the logging framework by generating reports to identify the trends and set up the strategy to find bug trends, code changes using Team Foundation Server.    Tools used: MS SQL Server 2008 R2/2012, BIDS/SSDT (SSIS, SSAS, SSRS), Erwin, Visio, Windows 2008 Server, SP 2010 SSIS/Report Developer Springleaf Financial - Anaheim, CA March 2016 to January 2018 Roles and Responsibilities:  * Worked with Business Analysts and end users in gathering detailed requirements and specifications.  * Developed relational databases optimized to provide data, analyzed and interpreted data feed sources (FTP connections, direct server queries, raw data files) to migrate data from various data formats into SQL Server databases using daily automated import processes (DTS and SSIS packages, etc.).    * Responsible for troubleshooting database issues and engaged in problem solving tasks involving data feed transformations. Worked with clients to address pressing issues by handling requests via internal ticketing system.  * Involved in designing the physical database models on SQL Server 2008R2/2008 RDBMS.  * Created the T-SQL script to generate all the tables and relationships based on the finalized ER-Diagram.  * Wrote complex stored procedures for Data Profiling, Backup the databases as well as handling the index fragmentation.  * Implemented error handling techniques like try catch blocks, error functions in T-SQL scripts and stored procedures to support the applications.  * Developed complex Stored Procedures, triggers and User Defined Functions for implementing business logic and process in backend, for data extraction, reports and other client interfaces.  * Involved in Query Optimization and Performance Tuning using tools SQL Profiler, Index Tuning Wizard and Database Engine Tuning Advisor.  * Created views as required by front end developer for easier implementation on web pages, and wrote instead of triggers on those views to provide efficient data manipulation.  * Developed complex mappings using SSIS to transform and load the data from various source systems like Excel, Flat files, into the SQL 2008 R2 Server target staging database.  * Involved in Full and daily Incremental loads into Staging and ODS areas, troubleshooting process issues and errors using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) 2014.  * Created event handlers on every executable in an SSIS package.  * Optimized ETL packages by optimizing queries and using proper transformations.  * Implemented package configurations on the development and test environments.  * Created several ad hoc reports, drill down, drill through, sub, linked, cached and snapshot reports using reporting services.  * Involved in Report generation using SSRS and Excel services and deployed them on Shard folders on the Server.  * Deploying and scheduling Reports using SSRS to generate all daily, weekly, monthly and quarterly Reports including current status.  * Designed and deployed Parameter-driven reports using parameters tab in the SSRS GUI procedures by Setting up the report-level parameters, along with Building parameter-driven queries and stored and placing them, in the data field.  * Transformed the data using different SSIS transformations like Aggregate, split, join, merge, derived column, Multicast, term extraction and data conversion of SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS).  * Developed ETL package with different data sources (SQL Server, Flat Files, Excel Source files, etc.) and loaded the data into target tables by performing different kinds of transformations using SQL Server Integration Services    Tools used: SQL Server 2008R2/2008, SSIS, SSRS, Erwin, Windows Server, Visio, TFS, Power Pivot, MS Visual Studio 2008. Database Developer Guardian International - Alhambra, CA October 2014 to March 2016 Roles and Responsibilities:  * Was responsible for analyzing various dimensions and facts that could be included in Data Warehouse design using best suited Star-Schema and created logical and physical model of DW type 2 slowly changing dimentions  * Created Stored Procedures, Views, and User Defined Functions to facilitate the automation of data entry by a front end application.  * Was responsible for identifying sources, creating staging database, and data warehouse (Facts and Dimensions).  * Managed the entire ETL process involving the extraction, analysis, transformation, loading and presentation of information to the end users.  * Created packages with several Transformations in each Package making sure that the data is cleaned and confirmed before being sent to the Staging Area.  * Created complex SSIS packages to pull data from Excel and flat files to SQL server  * Was responsible for securing the entire database with various types of encryption techniques along with the use of certificates.  * Implemented package configurations on the development, test, and production environments.  * Was responsible for securing the entire database with various types of encryption techniques along with the use of certificates.  * Implemented appropriate high-availability solution like log-shipping and mirroring which best suited the business needs according to the functionality and the budget requirements.  * Created several reports using SSRS such as Drill Through reports, Linked, and sub reports.  * Managed very large reports that return a large volume of records and optimized their performance using techniques such as Cascading Parameters and Filters. Network Administrator February 2013 to October 2014 Roles and Responsibilities:  * Systems operations, maintenance and installation of Microsoft operating systems, applying updates, patches and hot fixes of servers and workstations  * Monitoring the performance of an existing networking devices, and troubleshooting any issues such as slow performance or network bottlenecks.  * Installing and running server security software to protect the server from computer viruses, spyware, malware, and other security threats  * Active directory and group policy administration on Windows Operating Systems  * Systems integrations by linking different computing systems, applications, software and hardware in a manner that improves functionality of existing systems.  * Crimping and making CAT-5 Cables as may be needed if short staffed  * Making data backups on window servers (Full, Incremental or Differential) using Veritas Backup    * Tools used: SQL Server 2008R2/2008, Windows server 2008, Windows Server 2012 SSIS, SSAS, SSRS, Visio Education Bachelor in Computer Information in Computer Information California State University Skills Data modeling, Database, Ms access, Sql server, Sql server 2008, Sql, SSRS, Star schema, Visio, Erwin, SDLC, R2, Ms visio, Windows server 2008, 2012, ETL, Data Warehouse, SSIS Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Proficiencies:  * Operating Systems: Windows 8 & 10, Windows Server 2003/2008/R2/2012  * Database Packages: SQL Server 2008/R2/2012/2014/2017, MS Access  * BI Tools: BIDS/SSDT, SSMS, SSIS/SSAS/SSRS, TFS, Power Pivot  * Data Modeling: Erwin, MS Visio  * SDLC Methodologies: Star schema Data Model, Water Fall Model