Data & Ecommerce Analyst Data &amp; Ecommerce Analyst Data & Ecommerce Analyst - Bison Production Company Cumming, GA Work Experience Data & Ecommerce Analyst Bison Production Company - Alpharetta, GA April 2017 to Present • Collect, analyze, and manage quantitative data to create meaningful reports and key metrics for the ecommerce team.  • Manage the various types of reporting process: sales outlook, volume/price/ mix reporting, flash and management meeting presentations.  • Acquire data from primary and secondary data sources and maintain databases/data systems  • Managing Dashboard, master data, including creation, updates, and deletion.  • Managing users and user roles.  • Provide quality assurance of imported data, working with quality assurance analyst if necessary.  • Filter and "clean" data, and review trends of bad data to identify problems with data capture, design and architecture  • CRM super user who leads sales and technical teams in utilization of the CRM (Salesforce.com) to track customer, competitive and or market activities.  • Identify market trends relative to product and pricing and maintain a thorough understanding of profitability by segment.  • Summarize and report as to which products are being offered and at what price. Update competitive information to define competitive business strategies, strengths and weaknesses, product offerings, etc.  • Work closely with management to prioritize business and information needs  • Document and maintain documentation around data handling activities and customer reporting processes.  • Create, manage, and optimize listings on Amazon Seller Central & Vendor Central, Sams Club, eBay, Walmart, HomeDepotLink, Lowes, Shopify and other marketplaces.  • Research and identify new marketplaces, including logistical needs and pricing.  • Lead projects and objectives that improve operations within each marketplace.  • Perform inventory controls and keep quality standards high for audits  • Produce reports and statistics regularly (IN/OUT status report, dead stock report etc) Database Administrator - SQL SERVER Voogole IT Academy - Alpharetta, GA June 2015 to March 2017 • Responsible for taking and optimizing backup and recovery processes.  • Configuring and setting new users, database mail, alerts and notifications.  • Used Query Analyzer and Profiler to diagnose SQL SERVER databases performance issues.  • Strong database design/implementation skills and capacity planning  • Experience with monitoring and troubleshooting 24x7 operations  • Capable of working in Virtual and Physical server environment and establish best practice when configuring and installing SQL Server  • Extensive knowledge in using SQL Server 2005/2008/2012 and data conversion. Education Bachelor's in Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science National University Skills DATA MODELING, DBMS, MS ACCESS, MYSQL, SQL