Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator - Aramark Refreshment Gwynn Oak, MD Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Aramark Refreshment - Jessup, MD January 2019 to Present Role and Responsibilities  • Perform everything from creation of virtual machines, to installation of both Oracle database, and Microsoft SQL Server database software, to creation of schema/ database objects, to joining of servers to a domain, to export/importing of database files from an old database server into a newer server, to scheduling of task on task scheduler/cron tab, to performance tuning, etc.  • Great hands-on experience with Oracle and Microsoft SQL Server databases on Linux, RHEL, Solaris, and Windows databases.  • Has performed multiple import/export of virtual machines using VMWare vCenter, vSphere, and ESX virtual host during development of business applications  • Understands the basic architecture, and functionality of VMWare vCenter, vSphere, and ESX virtualization  • Recently installed, and deployed oracle database software on both RHEL7.3 and Windows server 2016 operating systems  • Create copies of virtual machines for the development of production applications on a VMWare vCenter host.  • Great hands-on experience with the installation, and configuration of Apache Tomcat application server, and the configuration of a tomcat server to communicate with both a database server, and a domain controller.  • Understands the basic functionalities of a domain controller. Knows how to add both Windows, and Linux virtual machines to a domain. Has troubleshoots multiple network connectivity issues between a database, and an application server with a domain controller.  • Understands the basic architecture, and functionality of an Active directory. Knows how to create both service accounts, and regular user accounts in a domain controller under LDAP. Knows how to grant/revoke permission to users in the LDAP, and perform password reset on user accounts.  • Performed multiple deployments of business applications into secured environments.  • Great documentation skills on all task perform during application development, testing, and deployment.  • Always available to relocate, and work even on non-working days  • Designed, developed, tested, deployed and maintained database security and audit solutions  • Great hands-on experience with RMAN backups, and management of archive logs within the Flash Recovery Area  • Performed database upgrade from Oracle 10g to Oracle 12cR2, and provided support for Oracle upgrade, application installation and operation, and database implementation onsite.  • Analyze database performance and performed database performance tuning  • Specialists on Oracle's memory architecture and spfile/init.ora parameter best practices  • Created multiple scripts for RMAN database backup, recovery, and monitoring on both Windows, and Linux platforms  • Performed system upgrades in support of business processing requirements  • Assisted developers with writing and tuning SQL queries  • Created scripts, and scheduled tasks using task scheduler/cron tab to copy database backup files into a secondary backup location on the NetApp  • Managed RMAN backups, conducted performance tuning analysis and modification, and developed standard operating procedures  • Prepared and implemented backup verification and recovery procedures  • Performed data loads using Data Pump and export/import utility.  • Diagnosed and troubleshot database problems such as errors and bugs, performance problems, runaway processes, connectivity problems, poor SQL statements, etc.  • Responsible for major Oracle database and Microsoft SQL server consolidation effort comprised of high-end Windows, and UNIX servers  • Proactively assisted developers in maintaining 40 + applications being accessed by employees and customers.  • Executed and provided ADDM, AWR and database health check reports to information owners and recommended solutions for improved performance.  • Took ownership of complex database incidents and problems and provided resolutions in a speedy and timely manner.  • Engaged subject matter experts and information owners to provide assistance to resolve more complex incidents as required for maximum availability of Oracle applications.  • Installed, configured, and maintained Oracle client software on client PC. Oracle Database Administrator Toyota Financial Services - Owings Mills, MD September 2018 to January 2019 Role and Responsibilities:  • Install, configure and deploy software, provide quality assurance.  • Developed web pages using Java, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JSP and JavaScript.  • Designed Database for the applications.  • Implemented all validations and clone testing.  • Experience with SQL query generation and data modeling experience  • Write and modify codes, maintain software documentation and specifications.  • Rebuild invalid indexes, recompiled invalid PL/SQL codes  • Involved in converting a single instance database to Oracle 11g, 10g RAC databases.  • Worked on installing the data guard on RAC databases for disaster recovery and setup the data guard broker.  • Providing all round DBA support to resolve Application and DB outages on production, development, test and staging Customer environments across the Globe.  • Supported up to 500 Databases.  • Installed and Managed 11g OEM  • Supported application and professional services to manage their data ranging from GB to TB in oracle database, solving of space problem, data loading problem.  • Executed Both DML and DDL SQL Queries on 11g Environments.  • Performing day-to-day database administration tasks like tablespace usage, checking alert log, trace files, monitoring disk usage, Table/index analyze jobs, database backup logs etc.  • Worked with database export & import scripts to backup database structures and automation procedures.  • Upgrade/Migration databases from Oracle 10 to Oracle 11g.  • Database Tuning by generating explain plans for long running queries, creating indexes on columns to improve performance Jr. Oracle Database Administrator Verizon LLC - Baltimore, MD September 2017 to August 2018 • Responsible for setting and managing USER MANAGEMENT, SPACE MANAGEMENT Granting required privileges to users.  • Performing monthly and annual performance reports for trend analysis and capacity planning.  • Assist in SQL tuning and providing consultation such as creating Materialized views, adding indexes, dropping unnecessary indexes, using hints wherever possible, amongst others.  • Worked on both Linux and UNIX environments.  • Troubleshooting of various database performances by proper diagnosis at all levels like SQL.  • Worked on refreshing the tables, schemas using exp & imp and also using expdp & impdp.  • Refreshed the databases from PROD to DEV using RMAN.  • Performed migration of databases from 9i and 10g to 11g on Linux.  • Upgraded the databases from 9i and 10g to 11g and resolving the issues during upgrade.  • Worked on RMAN backup and recovery. Recover databases (full recovery) during database upgrade and point in time recovery as per the user request using RMAN.  • Re-validated views and compiled the views which are invalid.  •. Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  • Achieved optimized performance for databases by rebuilding indexes on tables.  • Automated processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing shell scripts.  • Involved in the installation, configuration and extended support to Oracle 11g, 10g two Node  • 24 X 7 Production & Development database support and administration. Oracle Database Administrator Intern NBC BANK - Bamenda Cameroon September 2015 to July 2017 • Supporting production and development databases,  • Taking export/import for schemas, databases as per the customer requirement,  • Managing database structure, storage allocation, table/index segments, rollback segments, constraints, database access, roles and privileges,  • Checking alert log, trace files, listener log and other database job logs,  • User creation and providing necessary roles, privileges and quota as per the requirement,  • Maintenance of database and listener security,  • Database and Schema REFRESH,  • Pro-active monitoring of database health,  • Database capacity planning.  • Backup's management.  • Database disaster recovery.  • Oracle 2 node RAC support.  Environment: HP server, RHEL 6 and Oracle 10.2.0.3 and Oracle RAC Education Master's Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science The University Skills DBA, Sql Server, Sql Database, Oracle Database, Oracle Dba, Sql Dba, MYSQL, Rman, RAC Additional Information Skills  • Database troubleshooting, RAC installation/configuration, disaster recovery with data guard, Computer hardware maintenance and repairs, MS word, MS Publisher, MS PowerPoint, MS Excel, Spreadsheets, RMAN, Linux OS, Quality Analyst /Tester, programming in "C," Java Scripts, HTML, CSS, AngularJS, Install, configure and deploy software, provide quality assurance.  • Experience on multi-threading, data structures, algorithms, object oriented design, and design patterns  • Troubleshoot various software issues using debugging process and coding techniques.  • Provide high-level customer support to remote clients using a support e-ticketing system. Operating system installations,