Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Verizon Wireless Riverview, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator Verizon Wireless - Temple Terrace, FL March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked in an environment comprising 200 databases with the largest databases each of size 5 TB.  • Performed frequent refreshing/cloning of production databases to development & testing databases using DataPump, RMAN Duplicate database.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager), Foglight.  • Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  • On-Call 24x7 production DBA support, application/development DBA, system administrator.  • Completed data mining through GoldenGate integrated replication for application schemas  • Installed,Configured and maintain goldengate for data center migration  • Used GoldenGate to replicate data from source to target in order to eliminate overhead on the source database  • Replicating Data Definition Language(DDL) using GoldenGate for dynamic in-house, developed database applications. Hence eliminating need for import/export  • Achieved real-time/no -real-time data replication using GoldenGate installed on a downstream system  • Maintained ODS downstream database using goldengate intergrated replication methodology    • Schedule and tune backups, automate refreshes and STATS jobs using UC4 and crontab  • Capacity planning of tables, indexes, table spaces and databases to allow for growth potential.  • Reconcile functional and technical problems through interaction with the client by researching and identifying the defined issue and by fully testing and confirming possible solutions to the problem.  • Creating database objects Tablespaces, Application Users, Database schemas, profiles, granting privileges and roles, and creating database links.  • Extensively worked on complete & incomplete recoveries of the databases including Point in time recovery (PITR) and Tablespace point in time recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN utility.  • Involved in performingupgrades from Oracle 11g to Oracle 12cdatabases.  • Applied PSU Patches (10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4) as a part of maintenance activity.  • Extensively used Datapump, conventional export/import utilities for loading data to & from databases, logical backups and migration of databases.  • Fixed various database performance issues using Automated Workload Repository (AWR) and Automatic Database Diagnostics Monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  • Achieved optimal performance tuning by using explain plan, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE, TKPROF utilities.  • Installation, configuration and maintenance of Physical Standby using OracleData Guard for Disaster recovery process on Oracle 11g, 10g.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.    Environment: Oracle 11.2.0.4, 12.1.0.2, RHEL 5.5, Sun Solaris 10.0, Exadata, ASM, Peoplesoft, SQL Developer, RMAN, OEM12c & 13c, Datapump, AWR, ADDM, ASH, TOAD, Foglight, Service Now, UC4, RAC, Windows 12r2, goldendate 12.3.0.1.4 Database Administrator Walgreens - Deerfield, IL January 2016 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Installation of oracle 11g databases in production, development and test environments depending on project requirements.  • Collaborated with the UNIX system Administrator to configure any software and hardware requirements that will function with the Oracle Database  • Refreshing development/test database from production using Export/Import & RMAN backups.  • Making structural changes to the databases. Sizing database objects for effective space management and optimal performance.  • Managing database security.  • Creating and assigning appropriate roles and privileges to users depending on the user activity.  • Defragmentation of tables and indexes for improved performance and effective space management.  • Have touch-point calls with offshore team and make sure all issues happen in off business hours are addressed with sense of urgency.  • Define database design and infrastructure standards in conjunction with the server configurations,  • Monitoring and troubleshooting the gaps between source and target databases configured with goldengate.  • Successfully upgraded the databases from 11g to non CDB 12c.  • Created Oracle Wallets and implemented Tablespace level TDE security.  • Managed Database MaintenanceActivities to achieve optimum database uptime.  • Configuration of Listener and Tnsnames.  • Created database link between two databases to access the table data from one local database to remote database using distributed database feature.  • Planned database backups (operating system, full/partial backups, and export/import) using various types of backups on UC4 clients and designed the backup methodology for the organization..  • Performed other Oracle DBA responsibilities performance tuning, monitoring tablespaces, monitoring users, etc. as well as much problem solving.  • Designed Logical and physical database for business transaction functionality.  • Provide production support for the deployed project till it is stabilized.  • Create and maintain data model  • Written SQL scripts to create database objects like tables, views and sequences.  • Created procedures and functions using PL/SQL.  • Preparation of High Level & Low Level Design documents.    Environment: Oracle 11g/10g/9i, Linux, Solaris, SQL Developer, PL/SQL, Shell scripting (Bourne), OEM, Statspack, RMAN, AWR, ADDM, DataPump. Database Administrator United Parcel Service - Chicago, IL October 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked in an environment comprising 200 databases with the largest databases each of size 5 TB.  • Performed periodic refreshing/cloning of production databases to development & testing databases using RMAN Duplicate database.  • Extensively worked on complete & incomplete recoveries of the databases including Point in time recovery (PITR) and Tablespace point in time recovery (TSPITR) using RMAN utility.  • Involved in performing upgradation from Oracle 9i, 10g to Oracle 11.2.0.3 RAC database.  • Applied PSU Patches (10.2.0.3, 10.2.0.4) as a part of maintenance activity.  • Extensively used Datapump, conventional export/import utilities for loading data to & from databases, logical backups and migration of databases.  • Fixed various database performance issues using Automated Workload Repository (AWR) and Automatic Database Diagnostics Monitor (ADDM) and Active Session History (ASH).  • Achieved optimal performance tuning by using explain plan, STATSPACK, SQL TRACE, TKPROF utilities.  • Schedule Performance jobs, Backups in all environments, STATS jobs, refreshes, and alerts on UC4 clients  • Ensure sound database definitions, structures and documentation.  • Creating and cloning database from PROD to DEV, UAT and QA.  • Presenting and analyzing database performance reports and improvement recommendations to client company's senior executives.  • Installation, configuration and maintenance of Physical Standby using OracleData Guard for Disaster recovery process on Oracle 11g, 10g.  • Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Automated the processes like moving files, managing alert log, efficient backup by developing UNIX scripts.  • Capacity planning of tables, indexes, table spaces and databases to allow for growth potential.  • Worked with application developers to address and clarify data requirements to resolve technical and functional issues.  • Enforced corporate business rules through adequate user/resource/object management.  • Reconcile functional and technical problems through interaction with the client by researching and identifying the defined issue and by fully testing and confirming possible solutions to the problem.  • Creating database objects Tablespaces, Application Users, Database schemas, profiles, granting privileges and roles, and creating database links.    Environment: Oracle 11.2.0.3, 10.2.0.5, RHEL 5.5, Sun Solaris 10.0, DataGaurd, RAC, RMAN, OEM, Datapump, AWR, ADDM, ASH, TOAD 11.0. Education Associate in B.Sc. Political Science and Public Administration University of Buea Skills SQL, SQL Server, Linux, DBA, Oracle Database, Rman, Oracle Dba, Sql Dba, Sql Database, RAC, Sybase Certifications/Licenses OCA Present Additional Information Skill Summary    • Over 4 years of strong experience in Oracle database administration in heterogeneous system environment including Solaris, UNIX, and Windows, supporting a variety of mission critical applications with Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c.  • Performing complete and incomplete recovery during disasters, failures and user errors.  • Configuring user creation, their roles and privileges profiles to control access over database objects.  • Strong skills in applying security patches (Patch set, Critical Patch Updates (CPU) / Patch Set Updates (PSU), One-off Patch) using "runInstaller" and perl based utility "opatch as well as database upgrades  • Working closely with the developing team for Data modeling and datababase design  • Installed and maintained Real Application Clusters (RAC)  • Extensive experience in database production support.  • Database backup concepts and options such as user-managed backup, RMAN-managed backup with or without catalog, operating system backup, cold and hot backup, full backup, incremental and cumulative backup. Implementing backup and recovery strategies.  • Deployed Standby databases using Data Guard 11G (Maximum Performance).  • Experience as On-Call 24x7 production DBA support, application/development DBA, system administrator.  • Monitored physical I/O and Proper sizing of rollback segments.  • Optimized SQL using explain plan, Auto trace feature and TKPROF to analyze the execution plan and tune the statements.  • Tuning of database using Utlstat scripts Statspack and dynamic performance views to monitor system statistics and wait events, AWR, ADDM and Tuning of SGA.  • Proven technical knowledge of infrastructure management (network, systems), combined with outstanding leadership ability and creative problem solving skills in both strategic and tactical areas as well as excellent communication /documentation skills and strong aptitude to analyze and resolve problems.  • Responsible for RMAN backups, and improvement to backup with incremental back by adding block change tracking feature of Oracle 11gR2.  • Created Users, Roles and Profiles, Privilege management with role-based security.  • Performed database tuning using Explain Plan, TKPROF, Statspack, Automatic Workload Repository (AWR), Active Session History (ASH), and Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor (ADDM) and SQL Trace.  • Maintaining and scheduling Cold Backups, Hot Backups, and Export Dumps. Maintaining backups of Archive logs and automating cleaning of archive logs. Deploying RMAN to automate backup and maintaining scripts in recovery catalog.  • Data transferring with export/import utilities and Data Pump and SQL* Loader.    Technical Summary    Databases Oracle 10G/11G/12C    Operating Systems HP-UX 10.x, 11.x. Sun Solaris 2.5, 2.6, 8, 9, 10. AIX 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 6.1 RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x.Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10. Windows 95/98/NT/2000.  Tuning Tools: TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM.  Languages SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting, PERL.  Utilities  RMAN, OEM, SQL*Loader, EXP, IMP, Data pump,, TOAD, Oracle SQL Developer, Spotlight, SONAR G, GUARDIUM, UC4, Winscp, JIRA, Goldengate 12.3.0.1.4, OEM 12c, OEM13c