Health Care Data Analyst Health Care Data Analyst Data Analyst/ Database Adminstrator Chicago, IL Data Enthusiast certified in Oracle Database Administration with a background in Statistics/ Analytics.  Possesses 5 years’ work and academic experience in an assortment of technologies transforming data into actionable information and supporting mission-critical databases. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Health Care Data Analyst Living Spring Home Health Care Inc. - Homewood, IL May 2018 to Present • Manage and modify information systems as needed to serve new purposes and improve workflow.  • Design financial and administrative reports with concise data visualization of results.  • Analyze data to identify aberrant trends and issues that impact quality of service or result in improper payments.  • Make data-driven recommendations for corrective actions for more efficient claims processing.  • Proactively identify and recommend additional opportunities for data mining and analysis  • Support periodic financial and clinical quality audits to ensure compliance.  • Strong knowledge of healthcare industry(insurance, providers, members) and medical coding concepts (procedure codes, diagnosis codes, CPT codes and claims data)  • Successfully adhere to HIPPA policies & procedures for monitoring and managing health data. Oracle Database Administrator Ibaka Entertainment Inc - Brooklyn Center, MN August 2017 to Present • Install, setup & configure Oracle 11gR2/ 12c RAC and single instance databases.  • Manage Backup & Recovery for Oracle on Red Hat Linux using RMAN.  • Created backup plan design and implementation using cold/hot backups and RMAN backup technology.  • Go through day-to-day user requests and troubleshoot database related problems.  • Automate DBA tasks by utilizing SQL and UNIX shell scripting for monitoring Oracle database status, security and backups.  • Create, modify and maintain Oracle database objects and storage structures including tablespaces, tables, users, roles, profiles, directories, and indexes. Allocate appropriate tablespace quotas with necessary privileges and roles.  • Run complex queries to retrieve data and ad-hoc reports from multiple tables within Oracle databases.  • Diagnose and resolve performance issues associated with SQL tuning and resource contention including locks and deadlocks.  • Scheduled and managed jobs using CRONTAB and Windows Scheduler.  • Experienced in using database features such as RMAN, Data pump, SQL Loader, Flashback, AWR, ADDM, ASM, TTS, SQL Tuning/Access Advisor, TOAD, ASMCA, ASMCMD, DBCA, and DBUA.  • Participated in a team that successfully analyzed, recommended and implemented an Oracle Active Data Guard (Standby Database) to facilitate data protection, site redundancy, and disaster recovery. Business Analyst Ibaka Entertainment Inc - Brooklyn Center, MN May 2017 to August 2017 • Ran complex queries to retrieve data from multiple tables within Oracle and SQL Server databases.  • Manipulated, cleaned and analyzed data using R and SQL.  • Addressed data discrepancy issues to management.  • Worked with the analytics team to build, maintain, and populate data warehouses.  • Identified areas of opportunity to grow, increase profitability, and optimize effectiveness of service.  • Predicted customers preference based on order history to maximize sales efficiency using logistic regression  • Supported customer service department and increased customers' positive feedback rate from 88% to 94%.  • Championed elevated understanding of customer behavior, demographics and trend. Education Bachelor of Arts in Statistics University of Minnesota - Morris, MN June 2017 Skills Database Management (1 year), Oracle (3 years), SQL (3 years), Disaster Recovery (1 year), UNIX Shell Scripting (2 years), Data Mining (3 years), Data Analysis (3 years), Data Visualization (3 years), Trend Recognition (3 years), Report Writing (3 years), Research (3 years), Problem Resolution (4 years), Tableau (1 year), ETL (3 years), Excel, Data Entry, VBA, MS ACCESS, Powerpoint, R (3 years), AWS, Cloud Computing, Python Links http://linkedin.com/in/joy-adedeji Certifications/Licenses Oracle 11g Administrator Certified Associate December 2017 to Present Microsoft Excel 2016 - Power User July 2017 to Present Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  ? Oracle RAC Installation and Administration  ? Performance tuning  ? UNIX Shell scripting  ? Disaster recovery  ? Backup and Recovery  ? Data analysis  ? Data mining  ? Trend recognition  ? Data visualization  ? Report writing  ? Research    TOOLS: SQL, PL/SQL, JAVA, R (R Markdown, Shiny, dplyr, ggplot2), STATA, Python, Enterprise Manager(OEM), Grid Control, Relational databases, Advanced Microsoft Excel (VBA, Pivot tables, Macros).