Project Leader, Erbil, Iraq Project Leader, Erbil, Iraq Project Leader, Erbil, Iraq - KELLOGG, BROWN & ROOT Peoria PROJECT MANAGEMENT  Leadership in the planning and management of complex projects  Summary: Experienced and exceptional Project Leader who excels at project team motivation and leadership. Brings seven years  of successful experience meeting project objectives and goals. Has a Bachelor's Degree in Project Management and the skills to bring  project goals into reality by facilitating and supporting cross-functional activities. Ability to achieve forecasts based on bottom-up  analysis and historical trends by facilitating the assurance of contractual and regulatory compliance, organizational policies and  project scope that achieved the project objectives by ensuring the optimization of the stakeholder's demands were met.    PROFESSIONAL PROFILE  • Efficiently synthesized project information by accurately establishing the project scope, setting project costs, achieving  productivity benchmarks, and successfully managed budgets up to $30 million dollars.  • Developed good working relationships with stakeholders at all levels to build consensus by effectively leading and  coordinating project teams by integrating cross-functional project management concepts, methods, and practices.  • Solved critical issues in a time-sensitive environment by leveraging proven quality assurance, risk, change, and project  management skills, including forward-thinking, leadership, accountability, flexibility, ability to focus under pressure and  respect for diverse perspectives.  • Project Management - experienced in leading multi-disciplined teams that are client-focused, impactful and decisive.  • Strong Communication Skills - combines an approachable style and in-depth knowledge of methods that instill confidence  in others to get the job done on schedule and safely.  • Effective Team Leadership - employs patience and perseverance, adapting to cultural differences and maximizing team  contributions.    CORE PROFICIENCIES  Continuous Process Improvement Monitors and tracks progress  Terrific interpersonal skills Able to make tough decisions  Able to see the project vision Excellent problem-solving abilities  Motivates project members toward project objectives Team Leadership & Motivation  Consults regularly with Senior Leadership Asset Management Work Experience Project Leader, Erbil, Iraq KELLOGG, BROWN & ROOT - Houston, TX June 2018 to Present HOUSTON, TX • JUNE 2018 - Global construction, engineering, and Services Company that supports clientele within energy, petrochemicals,  government services, and civil infrastructure sectors.  Project Leader, Erbil, Iraq    • Assembled project teams, assigned individual responsibilities, developed project schedules and maintained  responsibility for determining and acquiring needed resources. Ensured quality contributions and milestones  were achieved, monitored progress, tracked task-completion through critical and analytical thinking and conducting trend analysis. Developed technical reports, made recommendations while fostering a partnership with the US Government and corporate stakeholders to implement recommended solutions.    • Held regular team meetings, solved complex problems and ensured project objectives and deliverables were  met. Incorporated the project big picture by obtaining the buy-in utilizing the tools of developing a partnership through growth and development, procurement, policy corroboration, customer satisfaction, mentorship,  coaching, conflict resolution, leadership, effective communication, and team collaboration.    • Demonstrated strong capabilities to provide expertise in the entire scope of multiple projects while serving as a liaison between team members and functional area management teams. Ability to align needed subject matter  experts to identified requirements across multiple project functions, perform gap analysis, develop project  teams that ensured high levels of motivation, group collaboration that met the targeted goals.  Personal and Confidential    • Made tough decisions when necessary that assured contractual and regulatory compliance. Protected the company's bottom-line at all times.    - Contributed to managing the quality management program through joint collaboration leading the improvement efforts of the customer journey by developing and employing quality oversight techniques, quality  training, statistical methods, assessments, and other quality tools. Contributed to the implementation of performance evaluations and prediction methods to improve the safety, reliability, and maintainability of  product systems and services.    - Ensured work condition requirements were met by leading audit/inspection reports and making  recommendations/presentations to management for corrective/preventive and continuous improvement  actions.    - Aligned quality management functions with product/service performance needs to ensure that product/service  lines deliver value to the customer. Facilitated, analyzed and solved complex problems requiring detailed  knowledge of field and value-added practices. IBM Maximo 7.6 - Database Administrator Michael Baker International August 2015 to November 2016 is a leading provider of engineering, global services, intelligence, and technology solutions.  IBM Maximo 7.6 - Database Administrator- Balad, Iraq  - Obtained specific/accurate material line item details through Maximo verification measuring and researching  buying specifications to accurately identify product details. Utilization of current materials inventory list to segregate and group material line items into categories according to their assumed functions and apply suitable  commodity groups and codes to material line items.    - Applied new multi-functional unique material reference numbers to each material line item according to a predefined process. Standardized all material item descriptions in a logical sequence using a noun, modifier, and  attributes ensuring relevant technical information is accurate. Responsible for ensuring that all identified  material line items are thoroughly reviewed with existing materials to avoid duplicate entries.    - Familiarized in barcoding software and assist materials inventory team with making new bin location labels.  Prepared catalog spreadsheets in excel format with images in a standardized format. Loaded completed catalog  data and images in Maximo 7.6 for use with materials and asset management inventory. Education Doctorate of Behavioral Health in Behavioral Health Arizona State University Bachelor of Science in Business Administration in Project Management Purdue University Awards Honor Graduate 2018-01 Summa Cum Laude  Purdue University Certifications/Licenses Lean Six Sigma Black Belt July 2013 to Present PMP March 2013 to Present