SQL SERVER DBA SQL SERVER DBA M&T BANK SQL SERVER DBA Buffalo, NY • Over 5 years' of experience in MS SQL Server database design, development & administration in enterprise production environment including server installation, configuration, upgrade, maintenance, performance tuning, optimization, backup/restore, recovery, migration, monitoring, security planning and trouble-shooting.  • Experience in Data Modeling, Relational Database Architecture and Implementation, System Architecture and development and Database Administration.  • Experience to deliver data management vision goals, priorities, design principles, and operating policies in support of the business goals of the Organization.  • Experienced to develop database solution by designing proposed system, defining database physical structure and functional capabilities, security, back-up, and recovery modes.  • Proficient with SQL Management Studio, Enterprise Manager, Query Analyzer, rescheduling jobs with SQL Server Agent, SQL Profiler, restoring database using full, differential, and log backups.  • Supporting production environment in 24/7 by acting as an on-call in rotational basis.  • Experience in Tuning SQL queries & improving the performance of the Database and performed database Consistency Checks Using DBCC Utilities.  • Hands on experience about SQL Server 2014/2012/2008/2005 installation/configuration /migration crossing different editions.  • Experience in Tuning SQL queries & improving the performance of the Database and performed database Consistency Checks Using DBCC Utilities.  • Experience in implementing disaster recovery & HA concepts like Log Shipping, Mirroring and Clustering.  • Experience in implementing and managing transactional, merge and snapshot Replication models  • Extensive experience in using SQL Server Profiler to monitor the SQL server for deadlocks, long running queries and tune the same to improve performance.  • Experience in regular maintenance activities like index rebuild, query tuning, statistics update, log file monitoring, temp DB monitoring, deadlock resolutions, and blocking contention issues.  • Expert in working with Third party backup tool like Red Gate SQL Lite Speed, Idera SQL Safe to improve Performance of backup and recovery.  • Experienced in creating and managing schema objects such as tables, views, constraints, indexes, functions, procedures, and triggers and maintained Referential Integrity.  • Experienced in Setup weekly and monthly maintenance plan to optimize the database server.  • Experienced in in installing and configuring Active/Passive and Active-Active Cluster on SQL 2012.  • Experience in designing and scheduling complex SSIS Packages for transferring data manually from multiple data sources to SQL server.  • Experienced in Huge data migrations, transfers using utilities like SSIS, Bulk Copy Program (BCP) and Bulk Insert.  • Experience in solving Real Time issues with Index fragmentation, DBCC checks, Query Tuning, Error and Event Handling.  • Experienced in supporting of Application deployment efforts which include database components. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL SERVER DBA Wells Fargo - Richmond, VA February 2017 to June 2018 Experienced in database consolidation project where we migrated 50+ standalone databases into SQLALWAYSON infrastructure.  ? Responsible for maintaining database inventory, creating database capability planning, security compliance planning and implement servers and Databases in Strong Security Environment.  ? Responsible to design security model by Creating Users, Schemas, Roles and Permissions for SQL Server.  ? Performed SQL Server configuration for the business functions including Index & data management to determine defragmentation level whether to update statistics or rebuild and reorganize indexes.  ? Worked in a SQL server operating in a very large database environment and also resolving issues related to database and tables.  ? Designed database maintenance plans for database backups.  ? Responsible for configuring, testing, monitoring, and supporting multiple heterogeneous database instances, maintaining the databases at current release and maintenance levels.  ? Created SQL objects like Tables, Stored Procedures, Views, Indexes, user defined data type's functions.  ? Responsible for developing high quality extraction/transformation/load (ETL) programs from heterogeneous sources (Excel, CSV, Oracle, flat file, ODBC, Text Format Data), and building business intelligence reports using SQL Server, SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), Report Services (SSRS) and Analysis Services (SSAS)  ? Worked as part of a team and provide 7×24 supports when required.    ? Performed daily tasks including backup and restore by using SQL Server 2008 tools like SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Server Profiler, SQL Server Agent, and Database Engine Tuning Advisor.  ? Involved with High Level Design of ETL SSIS Package for integrating data from heterogeneous sources (Excel, CSV, Oracle, flat file, ODBC, Text Format Data).  ? Involved in creating complex Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions, Indexes, and Tables etc.  ? Monitored Scheduled jobs and alerts.    Environment: SQL Server 2012, Windows server 2012/2008, MS Office, ALM, UFT, Java, XML, HTML, MS SQL Server , MS SQL Server Integration Services , MS SQL Server Reporting Services , T-SQL, Team Foundation Server , ASP.NET. SQL Server DBA II KINETIK.Care December 2016 to January 2017 Installed and configured SQL Server 2012, 2014 in production and development environment.  ? Involved in installing and managing multiple 2 node failover cluster set up in active/passive environment as a High Availability mechanism.  ? Analyzed and Upgrade SQL Server 2005 and 2008 to 2012/2014 Migrated Database from 2012 to 2014.  ? Applied SQL Server service packs and hot-fixes as they become for updates.  ? Successfully implemented database mirroring with high availability mode in SQL Server 2012.  ? Implemented log shipping in SQL Server 2012 from primary server to standby server to support DR solution.  ? Involved in resolving all problems with production, test and development SQL Server, Troubleshooting the problem and providing the root cause analysis.  ? Checked Database Health by using DBCC commands and DMVS.  ? Experience in writing technical reports for the management and for other of Production support.  ? Promote/migrate SQL-Server objects from development to QA and QA to production instances  ? Scheduled DBCC and Update statistics on database to ensure data consistency and better performance.  ? Assisted developers with code enhancements, tuning of queries and indexing and tables.  ? Ensured utmost quality process in both design & development of the entire system & guide the client in achieving their business goals.  ? Responsible for creating & maintaining Database files, Transaction log files, Procedures, Daily Maintenance Jobs.  ? Troubleshoot database performance issues and tune database objects. Set up traces and profiler to troubleshoot performance issues.  ? Monitored memory, CPU utilization, disk utilization, locks, deadlocks and run-time of queries.  ? Created and maintained various databases for Production, Development and Testing using SQL Server 2012.Planning the location of data, index, and Transaction log files on the disk. Solved issues related to server performance and disk space.    Environment: MS SQL Server 2016/20142012/2008 r2, Red Gate, T-SQL, Windows Server 2008/2012. UNIX, Web Logic, HTML, XML, TOAD. DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Karnaphuli Fertilizer Company November 2013 to October 2016 Installed Configured and Managed MS SQL Server 2012, 2008 ,2008 r2 ,2005 in development, test, and production environment  ? Upgraded SQL databases 2005 to SQL Server 2008R2.  ? Closely work with business analyst to deploy databases and manage availability.  ? Involved in monitoring and troubleshooting performance issues and optimized TSQL queries, stored procedures, functions etc.  ? Executed Data migrations from one database structure to another Using SSIS Review and Migrated Stored Procedure.  ? Involved in Scheduling Tasks, Setting Alerts, Managing Task Scheduling, setting up SQL Mail, Managing Alerts, Monitoring and Tuning SQL Server, and also suggested better Scheduling Strategy for jobs to overcome Blocking and Dead Locks.  ? Worked with developers to tune-up performance of SQL and T-SQL query.  ? Analyzed the existing application programs and tuned SQL queries using Execution plan, Query Analyzer, SQL Profiler and database Engine tuning Advisor.  ? Performance tuning & optimization of servers in production, test environment  ? Configured Database maintenance plan as per the capacity planning and priority/severity of the Database and defining the required retention period for the backup storage.  ? Monitored and tuned all aspects of SQL Server infrastructure like Disk, CPU, Memory, SQL Code etc., by using PerfMon, Profiler, Dynamic management views.  ? Implemented Disaster Recovery for SQL Server DBA Production Database as Fail-Over or Standby Servers.  ? Used Log Shipping Technique for warm backup solution for MS SQL Server databases.  ? Continuously monitored and updated Backup and Recovery strategy to recover data based on requirements  ? Involved in Day-to-day activities such as Agent Jobs, Services, Index, Database growth, health and consistency check.    Environment: MS SQL Server 2012, 2008, 2008R2, T-SQL, SSIS, SSRS, BCP,SQL Profiler,Log shipping, Mirroring, VMware , Windows XP/2000 and Windows Server 2008/2012. Education Bachelors in Science in Computer Science and Engineering International Islamic University of Chittagong (IIUC) Skills DATABASE (4 years), maintenance (4 years), MS SQL Server (4 years), SQL (4 years), SQL SERVER (4 years), Sql Dba, DBA, Ssis, MYSQL, ETL, Oracle Dba Additional Information Technical Skills:    Database Products:  • MS Sql Server 2005/ 2008/ 2008R2/2012/2014/2016/2017    Oracle 11g    • MySQL  • MS Access    Programming Languages:  • T-SQL/SQL  • MySQL    • PowerShell Script  • PHP/VB6/VB.Net    • C/C++  • CSS/HTML    SQL Tools:  • Data Tools/ DMA  • SQL Profiler/ Perfmon  • MS Baseline Security Analyzer  • Hyper-V    • SP_Blitz/ DBATools  • Maintenance Solutions  • Red Gate's SQL Monitor    • Crystal Report  • Idera SQL Diagnostic Manager  • Visual Studios    ETL/Reporting Tools • SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) • SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) SQL Server Analysis Service  Environment/OS: • Windows Server 2003/2008/2012 UNIX/Linux • VMWare 10  Other Tools • SharePoint Atlassian JIRA HIPAA and BMC Remedy System.