I.T. Support Technician I.T. Support Technician I.T. Support Technician - Ivy Tech Community College Kokomo, IN Work Experience I.T. Support Technician Ivy Tech Community College - Kokomo, IN July 2019 to Present Provide excellent customer service to both faculty and students in an effort to provide the best experience with computer technology. Troubleshoot and diagnose Network issues as well as applying updates and security patches in a timely manner. Software Eng Intern VR Systems - Tallahassee, FL January 2019 to June 2019 Frequently converted legacy software from an insecure, outdated method of accessing database through PHP and SQL to a best practices method using PHP and PDO Parameterization. IT Support Specialist Elections - Tallahassee, FL July 2018 to December 2018 Worked proficiently and proactively in a fast based environment where issues needed to be resolved immediately to expedite voting and provide a clean, comfortable environment for voters. Set up and designed networks on the fly with little to no notice and frequently fabricated network cables. Set up over 300 individual Evids (clerk voting stations) with network configurations for mobile hotspots and created scripts to expedite this to remove human error. Created custom, on demand software as needed to free up time and manpower for other, less tedious tasks of equal importance. Database Administrator United States Army - Fort Drum, NY 2013 to 2016 Monitored and maintained Aviation Battalion's maintenance server to include backing up, restoring, repairing errors and inputting and exporting information on request by superiors. In addition, was accountable for all of Aviation battalion's logbooks and laptops and frequently had to repair user error and hardware malfunctions. Education University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD 2017 to Present Web Design Course Lively Technical Center - Tallahassee, FL 2009 Skills Database, Mysql, Sql, Html, Javascript, Php, Python, Scripting, Bash, Css, Pdf, Database management, User experience, Help Desk, Desktop Support Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: E4 Additional Information SKILLS  PHP: Adept and knowledgeable in PHP scripting for webpages. Frequently worked with, modified, and edited code created by others to improve functionality and security. In addition, assisted in created and developing multiple PHP Libraries to expedite the creation of new web applications and systems. Created Libraries and code for filling out acroform PDF documents with database supplied information to increase user experience on web sites.  HTML/CSS/JS: Skilled in HTML, CSS, and Javascript for adjusting the appearance of web applications and increasing ease of access to users as well as increasing their overall experience while using the applications.  Batch/Bash/Python Scripting: Passionate about creating and developing scripts to expedite and improve website feature creation and functionality as well as server management and optimizations.  Database Management: Knowledgeable in SQL as used on MySQL servers and Windows SQL Servers to be used on webpages in a secure fashion.