Background Verification Specialist Background Verification Specialist Seeking a full-time position that offers a safe working environment and opportunities for advancement. Indianapolis, IN Detail-Oriented Worker with Years of experience Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Background Verification Specialist Indiana State Personnel Department - Indianapolis, IN December 2018 to May 2019 *Handle applicant files and begin the pre-Employment process  *Verify previous employment and education for applicants dating back 5 years  *Reach out and speak with applicant Professional References  *Initiate Background investigations using Barada.  *Utilize Peoplesoft take access applications for potential applicants.  *Work with various state agencies to help in the hiring process. Recruiter Express Employment Professionals - Bloomington, IN August 2018 to October 2018 * Develop great partnerships with our clients and employees by providing excellent communication, prompt, efficient, and cordial service.  * Identify recruiting sources, network and develop contacts with cultural organizations and other groups.  * Post ads, search and review resumes, and pre-screen applicants over the phone.  * Reach or exceed client and applicant expectations for branch through personal efforts and managing a "results-oriented" team  * Interviewing, screening, and assigning employees to meet client needs.  * Treat all applicants with respect, integrity, and professionalism  * Develop a positive attitude and a "loyalty to company" attitude for self and in communication with fellow staff, clients, and temporary employees.  * Answer hundreds of telephone calls in a positive, professional manner  * Organize, help with administration duties.  * Set up assessments test for applicants.  * Perform drug screening and background checks  * Front coverage of front desk at all available times and greet all walk-ins  * Process Weekly Payroll.  * Various duties will be assigned as necessary Human Resources Assistant/Receptionist Data Recognition Corporation (DRC) - Indianapolis, IN April 2018 to July 2018 *Maintain employee records (soft and hard copies)  *Participate in recruiting events and prepare paperwork for events.  *Update HR databases (e.g. new hires, separations, vacation and sick leaves)  *Assist in payroll preparation by providing relevant data, like absences, bonus and leaves  *Prepare paperwork for HR policies and procedures  *Assist with new hire paperwork and training  *Process employees’ requests and provide relevant information  *Coordinate HR projects, meetings and training seminars  *Manage the department’s telephone center and address queries accordingly  *Prepare reports and presentations for internal communications  *Provide orientations for new employees by sharing on-boarding packages and explaining company policies General Cleaner Kimco Facility Services - Indianapolis, IN July 2017 to March 2018 * Maintained facilities by cleaning all areas of the building.  * Utilized cleaning materials for dusting and heavy cleaning to requested areas.  * Removed and discarded environmental waste  * Managed and utilized cleaning and hazardous chemicals and supplies. LIMS Database Administrator Sure-tech Laboratories - Indianapolis, IN May 2016 to May 2017 * Inspected incoming soil and plant tissue samples for information accuracy  * Identified areas of missing sample information and work with Quality and Customer Service to obtain complete sample information.  * Entered data to online database system.  * Scanned incoming samples into online database system.  * Reviewed database to ensure all information is complete.  * Ensured complete and accurate reports were sent to sales person. Inside Sales Support Fastenal Company - Bloomington, IN September 2014 to May 2016 * Assisted with the administrative duties of the facility such as customer database management.  * Delivered customer orders and refilled company vending machines.  * Took orders and processed POs for various companies.  * Managed company vehicles during maintenance needs.  * Manage store location. Prepared orders totaling in over 3000 dollars in merchandise Answered telephone and completed front-desk receptionist duties within a high-volume environment.  * Certified to operate company vehicle and forklift to complete daily deliveries and prepare deliveries for outside sales associates Education Bachelor of Liberal Studies in Healthcare Administration Indiana University - Bloomington, IN December 2021 Skills Customer Service (1 year), Database (2 years), database management. (1 year), receptionist (2 years), telephone (1 year), Front Desk, Reception, Front Office, Human Resource, Interview, Talent Acquisition, ADP, Human Resources, Scheduling, Recruiting, Filing, Data Entry, Payroll, Administrative Assistant, Outlook, Excel, MS Office, Sales, Microsoft Office, Word, Insurance Verification, EMR, Collections Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Skills: Computer: Microsoft Office (Access, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint, Word)  Office: Telephone / Front Desk Reception; Customer Service; Filing; Database Management