MS SQL Server Database Administrator MS SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> MS SQL Server Database Administrator Fair Oaks, CA To seek a challenging, resourceful, adaptive career that allows me to expand my knowledge and enhances my skills and be a part of the team that helps the organization to achieve success. Work Experience MS SQL Server Database Administrator INFOSYS - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2014 to September 2016 Telangana)  • Provided first level support to the users by creating and assigning tickets using ticketing tools such as ITSM, Techease.  • Appropriately identified the severity of an incident and logged all the information into the tracking system using correct categorization and prioritization.  • Monitored, maintained and followed up on all tickets and ensured that the work is performed accurately.  • Strong working knowledge on Microsoft Windows server 2008/2008R2/2012.  • Regularly monitored the databases, servers which included jobs monitoring, disk space monitoring, services monitoring and monitoring SQL server health.  • Experienced in creating, scheduling and troubleshooting of SQL Server Agent jobs.  • Diagnosed the job errors and implemented solutions or worked with the development team to fix the errors and ensured the successful completion of the job.  • Responsible for setting up security and providing user access to SQL Server instances and objects and deleting the user account from the security logins.  • Worked on SQL Server 2012 migration from SQL Server 2008, SQL Server 2008R2 which involved creating and modifying databases, tables, stored procedures, views, indexes as required on the SQL Server.  • Provided regular incident and change notifications (planned & unplanned) to impacted lines of business and senior managers with appropriate data including business impact, application affected and relevant details regarding incident resolution.  • Monitored the backup jobs and performed the backup and restoration of databases when necessary.  • Performed data export and import as required in the SQL server using SSMS.  • Experienced working with SQL clustering and troubleshooting server issues in a clustered environment.  • Documented all the process changes, troubleshooting steps in Word documents.  • Worked with the developers and performed deployments in UAT and Production environments.  • Performed the quality assurance checks before and after the UAT and Production deployments.  • Experienced in working with SQL tools such as SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) and office tools such as Microsoft Word, Excel.  • Experienced in working with SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS).  • Checked the connectivity issues to the server using ping, trace route and escalated complex network issues to the network administrators.  • Experienced in troubleshooting blocking, dead locking, log file growth and server related issues.  • Experienced in using System Center Operations Manager (SCOM) for servers monitoring in various environments and troubleshooting the alerts generated in SCOM.  • Knowledge of HA/DR options such as database mirroring and log shipping, active directory, performance tuning. Customer Process Associate AMAZON - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2013 to December 2013 Telangana)    • Determined the customer needs, set appropriate expectations and provided solution for the customer.  • Consistently composed a grammatically correct, concise and accurate written response to customer issues via email.  • Approached problems logically and with good judgment to ensure appropriate customer satisfaction.  • Clearly understood and responded appropriately to the issues that customer presented.  • Supported customer with online billing and account issues.  • Provided information on the shipments to the customers and helped them avail the packages.  • Collected customer feedback and made process changes to exceed customer satisfaction goals. Education Bachelor's Skills SQL, DNS, TCP/IP, SHARK, BGP, Sql Server, Sql Dba Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Office tools: MS Word, Excel, Power point, Outlook  Network Securities: NAT/PAT, VPNs, IPSec  Protocols: TCP/IP, UDP, RIP, BGP, SSH, DHCP, DNS, FTP, HTTP  Software: Wire Shark  Devices: Juniper 210, 220, 240  Programming language: SQL    *AUTHORIZED TO WORK IN THE U.S.