Used Truck Sales Used Truck Sales Used Truck Sales - MHC Kenworth Marietta, GA Work Experience Used Truck Sales MHC Kenworth - Mableton, GA June 2018 to Present ? Facilitates the purchasing and selling of equipment up to a quarter million dollars per unit.  ? Finds, grows, and maintains quality customers relationships with a wide range of prospects  ? Developed a complete knowledge of the industry in order to help with the construction of customers business  models  ? Aids in assessing the viability and formulation of financing and lending agreements. Benefit Support Specialist / Tech Support BenefitMall - Alpharetta, GA May 2017 to May 2018 Assists in the processing of insurance quotes and registration in fast-paced, high volume office atmosphere.  ? Utilizes multiple web platforms to generate insurance quotes for small to medium sized businesses.  ? Ensures all relevant information is provided and consistent throughout quote/enrollment process. Make sure  quotes are done in a timely manner. Perform various roles on as-needed basis to relieve caseload.  ? Provides tech support on office computers, copiers, and fax machines as well as network troubleshooting IT Administrator/ Database Management Specialist Transport Enterprise Leasing - Chattanooga, TN February 2015 to May 2017 ? Performed daily management and allocation of escrow funds over hundreds of accounts, totaling over one  million dollars. Maintained a high level of attention to detail while abiding by strict company standards for security and confidentiality.  ? Redesigned database systemization and streamlined protocol for monitoring all debits and credits to company  and employee accounts. Automated practices of data entry, saving company time and money; developed and implemented best practices to reduce the rate of error associated with data management.  ? Acted as the formal liaison between the company personnel and IT staff. Facilitated several IT projects which implemented enhanced technical practices, allowed heightened levels of communication and efficiency.  ? Maintained personnel files of company staff and independent contractors as well as business information  pertinent to company.  ? Created social media presence and ran social media campaigns promoting best standards of business, corporate safety, maintenance and other information for employees and independent contractors. Education Bachelor's in Business Administration in Business Administration Kennesaw State University - Kennesaw, GA August 2010 to December 2016 Skills HTML (1 year), DATA ENTRY (3 years), MICROSOFT EXCEL (5 years), MICROSOFT POWERPOINT (5 years) Additional Information SKILLS     Management: Using my excellent written and verbal abilities and extensive management knowledge to create an efficient work environment, while promoting team synergy and growth. I thrive in collecting, organizing and presenting information in a targeted manner to all levels of an organization.    Technical Skills: Proficiency in Microsoft Word, Microsoft PowerPoint, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Project, Photoshop, Data Entry Software, HTML, Saleforce.    Leadership Skills: Taking initiative and responsibility to ensure quality service, skills, and a strong team effort.