Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - Surescripts Minneapolis, MN I'm an accomplished and a seasoned Database Administrator and IT security expert with over 8 years of experience with extensive knowledge and proficiency in Database design, Monitoring & Tuning, Migration, Upgrades, Scripting, Backup & Recovery, Cloning, Replication, and Security Implementations. I'm also proficient in an assortment of technologies including Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c, and MS SQL Server. I possess exceptional written, verbal, analytical and organizational abilities. Proven leader with motivational management style, a solid reputation for building and retaining highly motivated teams and development of innovative solutions. An energetic achiever who can successfully manage multiple priorities and perform tremendously under pressure. Work Experience Database Administrator Surescripts - Minneapolis, MN December 2018 to Present Surescripts, Minneapolis, MN December 2018 - Present  Database Administrator    • Utilize the System development life cycle (SDLC) methodology for designing, analysis, development and implementation of databases.  • Implement a backup strategy following company SLA; execution of backup schedule for both physical and logical backups using RMAN and DATAPUMP utilities respectively. I also use block change tracking (BCT) which reduces backup time from 8hrs down to 45mins.  • Champion the Installation and configuration of Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c on both Windows and Linux platforms using DBCA as well upgrade from lower to higher environments using DBUA. Also install, administer and maintain SQL server instances 2008 and 2012.  • Apply Oracle's quarterly Critical Patch Update (CPU/ PSU application) using OPatch utility to install, test, and deploy patches to all database instances.  • Implement a security policy utilizing Advanced Security features like Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) that protects sensitive data from malicious users and software. Also ensure the access security using Authorization, Authentication and Auditing.  • Perform data extraction, transformation and loading (ETL) using SQL Loader, external tables and Data Pump  • Perform monthly performance reports using reporting systems such as Crystal Reports for trend analysis and capacity planning.  • Perform Data Guard switchover/failover as per the requirements as well configure RAC systems to ensure High Availability and Scalability.  • Extensively use AWR, ADDM reports, EXPLAIN PLAN and SQL Tuning Advisor for periodic database and SQL statements performance tuning.  • Work with SQL developers on constructing effective PL/SQL programs and packages to improve on the customer/user experience.  • Perform day to day administrative tasks by analyzing the database like checking and monitoring for failed processors, verifying the query for issues, validating disk space, checking critical alerts and thresholds and using OEM Database Administrator State of Minnesota, DHS - Saint Paul, MN April 2014 to November 2018 Database Administrator State of Minnesota, Department of Human Services - Saint Paul, MN April 2014 to November 2018 • Deployed Database security policy and installation, using passwords, privileges and user profiles. Utilize Oracle Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) to encrypt columns, tables and Tablespaces, I also implement the "triple A" (AAA) and database auditing policies as well as data redaction.  • Performed database, SQL and PL/SQL tuning, using AWR, ADDM, EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, SQL Tuning Advisors, for better performance  • Design and implement resilient systems that involves backup and recovery strategies using RMAN, FRA, and Recovery Catalog for disaster recovery and data archiving to ensure effective protection and integrity of data assets.  • Scripting to automate operations and administrative activities  • Performed user management, assigning roles and profiles, maintaining system security through monitoring user access to the database and auditing their use of the database  • Monitoring Oracle database services on a UNIX/ Linux Operating System environment, and on OEM.  • Install and administer Oracle Physical Standby Database for single and multiple instances to achieve high availability and DR solution (DATA GUARD).  • Performed database Refreshes from production environments using RMAN Duplicate and Data Pump impdp/expdp.  • Install and configure the Oracle Golden Gate software on Unix/Linux platform for both Unidirectional and Bidirectional replication.  • Capacity planning to meet the demands of the dynamic aspects of storage and memory for the databases  • Carry out quarterly patches, maintenance and upgrade of production, development and test databases. Oracle Database Administrator Medtronic - Mounds View, MN June 2011 to March 2014 CHRONOLOGICAL EXPERIENCE    Medtronic, Mounds View, MN June 2011 - March 2014  Oracle Database Administrator  • Improved the performance of databases using tools such as AWR, ADDM, Explain Plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF and SQL Tuning Advisor and ensured the monitoring of databases using OEM's Grid Control  • Performed Oracle installations, upgrades, instance configuration, maintenance and troubleshooting using tools like DBCA, OFA and DBUA  • Designed and implemented a backup and recovery strategies following the company's SLA agreements using RMAN for Full, incremental, hot and cold backups as well as block chain tracking that greatly reduced incremental backup time  • Supported daily administration, monitoring, tuning, and troubleshooting on single instance on UNIX/Linux, Windows server 2008 and 20012 ( Database sizes range 100GB to 21TB).  • Used range, hash and composite table partitioning which greatly decreased the database backup and SQL Execution time. Also performed instance tuning by changing init.ora parameters and managed parameters such as shared_pool_size and db_cache_size with the use of AMM and ASMM.  • Managed database security by creating, assigning appropriate roles, profiles and privileges to users depending on the user activity, auditing, and performing other security related tasks including Transparent Data Encryption.  • Installed and administered Oracle Physical Standby Database for single and multiple instances to achieve high availability and DR solution (DATA GUARD).  • Worked with developers on constructing effective PL/SQL programs and packages.  • Cloned, patched and implemented upgrades and migrations.  • Migrated and Installed Oracle 11gR2 servers, wrote technical documents for team support and best practices.  • Performed database Refreshes from production environments  • Used DMLs, DDLs and Select statements in creating database objects, inserting data and querying databases.  • Capacity planning (supported 3 tier architecture, planning of tables, indexes, tablespaces and databases) to allow for growth potential and analyze data growth trends for capacity and resources. Education B. Sc in Biochemistry University of Buea Associates in Health Information Technology in Health Information Technology Anoka Technical College Skills DATA MIGRATION, DATABASE, DATABASE DESIGN, ORACLE, REPLICATION