Account Manager Account Manager Account Manager - Sunny Shower USA, Inc Walnut, CA Work Experience Account Manager Sunny Shower USA, Inc - S el Monte, CA February 2018 to Present • Traveled to clients and vendor meetings.  • Led and maximized sales and achieve monthly and annual sales goals.  • Grew revenue for business.  • Managed the sales forecasts.  • Worked in a rapidly expanding and changing environment.  • Anticipated and creatively resolved problems though sales process.  • Assured continual account satisfaction via maximum responsiveness, superior service  levels, and personalized customer care.  • Identified opportunities for further expansion of services among current client base.  • Participated in necessary training, selling techniques and methods, and product capability  workshops to stay current in business. E-Commerce Manager / Customer Service Representative Sunny Shower USA, Inc - S el Monte, CA January 2017 to February 2018 • Managed E-Commerce accounts, such as Amazon.com, eBay.com, Houzz.com, Walmart.com, WooCommerce, and Shopify.  • Responsible for all order entry, return authorizations, issuing refund, cancellations, shipping, and customer service issues.  • Worked with our technical department and manufacturer for product knowledges to ensure the customer was fully satisfied.  • Performed detailed and in-depth research to obtain solutions for customers pertaining to theirs requires.  • Collected customer feedbacks and meticulously research each of reviews to achieve  customer satisfaction and consistently meet performance benchmarks in all areas. Database Administrator - Intern Lien Hua Industrial Corp - Taipei, TW May 2016 to September 2016 Assisted the Senior Analyst in maintaining the company's database using the SQL  programming language.  • Created data analysis report for different departments to improve the efficiency of the business.  • Communicated to the Senior Developer about bugs on the application.  • Tested pre-launch application to ensure the program would run smoothly before it is  rolled out to the public.  • Used data analysis to forecast marketing trends. Education Master of Applied and Computational Mathematics in Applied and Computational Mathematics Florida State University - Tallahassee, FL August 2014 to December 2016 Bachelor of Science in Mathematics in Mathematics Tamkang University - New Taipei City, TW September 2007 to June 2011 Skills SQL, C++, FORTRAN, SAS, LINUX Additional Information SKILLS  Office Suite  • Microsoft Office Suite, QuickBook  Programming Language  • Fortran, C++, GUN Octave, Matlab, Maple, SAS, SQL  Operating System  • Windows, Linux