Database Administrator Intern <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Intern Database Administrator Intern - Protech Solutions Inc Little Rock, AR 3 years of professional experience as MS SQL Server/ETL developer in process design and implementation  GUI, Data Analysis and Network Administration.  Experience in designing, developing and testing of the ETL processes to populate data from various source  systems.  Robust understanding of ERP Systems, logical & physical Database design & development, data conversion &  Normalization.  Profound understanding of Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW) concepts including OLTP/OLAP, Excellent  knowledge in Dimensional Modeling, ER Modeling, Star Schema/Snowflake Schema, FACT and Dimensional  tables.  Expert in writing complex queries, stored procedures, cursors, triggers, views and user-defined functions for data  consistency and manipulation.  Worked extensively on Power BI and created Reports/Dashboards using different type of Slicers and different  Visualizations like Bar Charts, Line Charts, Graphs, and Pie Charts etc. to make it more attractive and explored  data in a Variety of ways and across multiple visualizations using Power BI.  Hands-on experience with creating solution driven views and dashboards by developing different chart types  including.  Robust understanding of Database Management system (DBMS) and Relational Database Management System  (RDBMS).  Worked with System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies including Waterfall, Agile -Scrum  Framework.  Self-motivated, Work independently with analytical Skill, time management and Creative thinking, good verbal  and written communication skills. Work Experience Database Administrator Intern Protech Solutions Inc July 2019 to Present • Work and Support development team during design and coding.  • Troubleshoot performance problems, fine-tuning of databases and index Analysis  • Knowledge in stored procedures and functions. Experience in Clustering.  • Experience in using dictionaries and finding long running queries.  • Experience in Import, Export, Backup, Recovery, Database Monitoring tools and Application support.  • Expertise in Database Administration on Production Servers with server configuration, performance tuning  and maintenance. Data Analyst Intern Noetic Partners Inc April 2019 to June 2019 • Development of Reference Data dictionary to help identify data types representing each unique identifier.  • Writing Definitions for Data fields to be integrated and implemented into working Model.  • Supporting Noetic Business requirements.  • Understanding of financial markets and how data is curated in the industry for the different use cases. Desktop Support Specialist in IT Services UA Little Rock December 2017 to December 2018 Worked with the clients to resolve the issues related to the Installation, Network, Troubleshoot, Client Assistance via phone or remotely.  • Collaborate with existing vendors to evaluate the new technology that is available and make recommendations  to management on using that technology.  • Monitor the performance of the company's desktop infrastructure and make suggestions for improving  efficiency.  • Evaluate applications and software patches for desktop applications to see if they will solve desktop issues.  • Estimation, diagramming (Activity, Use Case, Sequence Diagram) and daily reporting Change/constraints for the applications and Employee Activities. Process Associate Suntec India Pvt. Ltd November 2013 to December 2016 Worked as a Developer in creating complex Stored Procedures, SSIS packages, triggers, cursors, tables, and views and other SQL joins and statements for the applications.  • Performed Data mapping for extraction and loading.  • Responsible for Disaster Recovery, backups, database optimization.  • Expert in developing multiple kinds of Power BI Reports and Dashboards.  • Analyze data in a Variety of ways and across multiple visualizations using Power BI.  • Used SSIS to transform data into SQL database via FTP from Text files, MS Excel as source.  • Heavily involved in query optimization and troubleshoot long running queries.  • Wrote complex stored procedures, triggers and functions.  • Used Performance Monitor and SQL Profiler to optimize queries.  • Enhanced the performance of database servers. Education Master of Science in Information Quality University of Arkansas at Little Rock - Little Rock, AR December 2018 Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology Uttar Pradesh Technical University - Noida, Uttar Pradesh June 2013 Skills Data flux, Database, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, Etl, Power bi, Html, Php, Python, Reporting tools, Tableau, Jira, Data warehousing, Css, Cost analysis, Bi, Integration Links http://linkedin.com/in/dxyadav1 Assessments Data Analysis — Familiar June 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xgzamtiqxnycfu9j Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.