Database Lead <span class="hl">Database</span> Lead DATABASE LEAD - Archer Daniel Midland (ADM) Erlanger, KY Work Experience Database Lead Archer Daniel Midland (ADM) - Cincinnati, OH January 2019 to Present • Leading database teams such as SQL SERVER DBAs, Oracle DBAs, IBM DB2 DBAs and MySQL DBAs  • Responsible for all Database service Delivery activities inside Archer Daniels Midland company  • Lead database projects to migrate databases acquired through companies acquisitions.  • Improved procedures to cut down time spent on projects  • Automated processes   • Leading the company on the best paths of managing and designing its database systems. ORACLE AND AWS DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Archer Daniel Midland (ADM) May 2016 to December 2018 AWS RDS Oracle databases Administration:    • Created AWS RDS Oracle Enterprise Editions database, configure the database, set up users, and Implement VPC Security groups.  • Managed user activities such User Creation, Grant Roles, Revoke Privileges and so on in AWS Cloud Environments.  • Understood AWS Cloud Architect  • Managed AWS RDS Database Space Activities such as Creation of Custom Tablespaces, sizing tablespaces, and moving data files across the tablespaces.  • Checked the AWS RDS database backups and retain backups, Software Patching, Automatic failure detection, and High Availability.  • Worked frequently in AWS RDS schema refresh from Production to Dev and Test Environments.  • Contacted AWS Support Center to address any problems that requires AWS support.  • Evaluated database server requirement for database creation and Installed Oracle Software    Oracle Database 11g & 12c: RAC Administration:    • Single Instance and RAC Databases creation  • Database configuration  • Setup Encryptions for Tablespaces  • Performed Schema refresh using Data Pump utilities  • Migrated data and schema objects from one environment to the other  • Controlled security by creating Profiles and roles for users.  • Managed Backup and Recovery for RAC  • Created and Managed High Availability of Services  • Performed RAC Database Monitoring and Tuning Activities  • Configured Initial Load  • Configured Changes to capture Extract, Replicate    Database Backup and Recovery  • Configured database backups to meet business and SOX control demands  • Registered Database with Recovery Catalog, created catalog Owner etc.  • Created backup Schedules, both level 1 & 2 incremental backups.  • Created and scheduled Archive Backups.  • Created and Recovery Scenarios  • Diagnosing and repairing database backups failures and instance recovery  • Performed database flashback  • Duplicated databases    Database Replication:  • Replicated databases in offsite to meet disaster recovery requirements  • Wrote requirements and documented procedures for company disaster recovery plans  • Shipped backup's offsite and test the recovery of the database on offsite servers.  • Checked the database overall health and always making sure the primary database is in Sync with the secondary database.  • Performed Role Transitions from time to time to make ensure the secondary database can be used as the primary database with zero downtime.    Exadata Database Machine Administration  • Migrated Databases to Exadata Database Machine  • Gave Recommendations for Optimizing Database Performance  • Monitored Exadata Storage Servers and Exadata Database Machine Database Servers  • Managed I/O Resources  • Performed Backup and Recovery on Exadata machines  • Configuring Enterprise Manager Cloud Control 12c to Monitor Exadata Database Machine    Oracle golden gate    • Installed Oracle GoldenGate  • Prepared Oracle GoldenGate Environment  • Configured extract, trail files, pumps, Initial Load  • Configured Changes to capture Extract, Replicate  • Troubleshoot Goldengate errors    Other database Skills    • Oracle Clusterware Administration  • Oracle SQL and PL/SQL  • Performed database tuning on single and clustered database environments.  • Oracle export database from one datacenter to another.  • Database objects migration using Database Link  • Database security and managing users accounts  • Managing Tablespaces and Data Files  • Helping users on calls ORACLE/SQL SERVER DATA ARCHITECT Archer Daniels Midland (ADM) May 2016 to May 2016 • Created relational design and working on normalization of the schemas  • Discussed and created table designs to meet requirements  • SQL development (retrieving data, creating store procedures, views, and triggers)  • ASP.NET Development (C#, HTML, CSS, and JavaScriptASP.NET specific web objects (Master Pages, User Controls, and Themes) DATABASE SUPPORT TECHNICIAN Illinois Department of Transportation (IDoT) January 2016 to May 2016 • Gathered statistics and refreshed statistics on schema objects per user requests to improve performance.  • Was on Skype call with users for to assist users with their questions and requests  • Managed users session locking and blocking issues  • Managed user sessions that applications automatically created  • Ran user provided scripts and help debug code in case errors occurred.  • Conducted Database refresh activities  • Managed database instances by creating services on RAC databases  • performed daily user requests like password reset, user and schema creations, granting and revoking privileges to users, database and schema objects migration, running scripts  • Recommended solutions by defining database physical structure and functional capabilities, database security, data back-up, and recovery specifications.  • Provided help for query performance.  • Trouble shooting database issues, Basic SQL and PL/SQL SQL SERVER/MS ACCESS DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR Illinois Department of Public Health June 2014 to December 2015 • Met with the stakeholders to understand their problems and suitable solutions.  • Recommended solutions by defining database physical structure and functional capabilities, database security, data back-up, and recovery specifications.  • Provided help for query performance.  • Cleaned and consolidated, and reorganized data from different sources and stored them in an RDMBS databases.  • Created reports to suit the needs and answer questions for different stakeholders across different department in the organization.  • performed daily user requests like password reset, user and schema creations, granting and revoking privileges to users, database and schema objects migration, running scripts  • Refreshed database schemas and schema objects  • Trouble shooting database issues, Basic SQL and PL/SQL    DEPLOYMENT TECHNICIAN AND COMPUTER SCIENCE TUTOR  Scott Community College January 2013 to June    • Assisted students in Database Projects in SQL Server, MySQL, Oracle, And MS Access  • Helped Students to understand SQL Statements and create Various Database Objects such as Tables, Views, Store Procedures, Functions, and Triggers etc.  • Helped Students to understand Entity Relationships, work with database primary, secondary, and unique keys, and understand the concepts of Database Normalization.  • Prepared and Setup Database environments for new Students  • Assisted students in math, Visual Basic, Java, Web Development, and Cisco Networking  • Responsible for deploying new computers and upgrading existing computers to the Windows 7 operating system Education Bachelor of Applied Science in Management Information Systems University of Illinois at Springfield - Springfield, IL 2015 to 2016 Associate of Applied Science in Applied Science Eastern Iowa Community College 2013 to 2014 Associate of Applied Computer Networking in Computer Networking Eastern Iowa Community College 2013 to 2014 Accounting University of Lomé 2007 to 2009 Skills Database administration, Database, Sql server, Oracle, Pl/sql, DBA, MYSQL, Sql Dba, DB2, Oracle Dba, SAP ERP Additional Information Technical Skills:    • 6 years of Oracle Database Administration  • 6 years of Oracle PL/SQL and SQL Languages  • 6 years of Shell and bash scripting  • 1 year of data architect  • 1.5 years of programing in .NET( C#, Visual Basic, and ASP.NET)  • 1.5 years of SQL SERVER Development works  • 7 years of Microsoft Office; Word, Excel, Outlook, Access, PowerPoint  • 3 of AWS RDS ORACLE Database supports.  • 6 Years of Performance Tuning  • 6 years of database security.  • Oracle E-business Suite Training at Oracle University  • VMware service Manager ticketing system  • ServiceNow ticketing System.  • Speak and Write English, French