Database Administrator <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Database Administrator - United States Navy Virginia Beach, VA Database Administrator and Software Engineer leveraging 8 years of experience in the United States Navy. A consummate professional and a military veteran, possesses technical experience in database management and computer programming. Possesses an extensive background leading a group of highly professional sailors in fast pace, dynamic and stressful environment. Work Experience Database Administrator United States Navy - Norfolk, VA January 2017 to Present • Supervised 10 administrators as the Leading Petty Officer of Maintenance Control Division.  • Mentored sailors which led to 7 advancement to the next paygrade.  • Managed 6 virtual servers and computer systems valued at $60K for Home guard and 4 detachments.  • Oversaw management of 7 highly critical aviation maintenance programs.  • Analyzed aviation data and advised course of action to improve maintenance process and procedures. Data Analyst United States Navy - Iwakuni, JP February 2016 to May 2017 • Tracked 9,832 IMRL assets to support Carrier Air Wing 5.  • Drafted monthly Aviation Maintenance and Material Management (AV3M) report to assist 5th Fleet with short-term and long-term planning.  • Administered OOMA server database for 14 aircraft assets, 1350 high time components and 90 personnel accounts.  • Assisted in implementing network infrastructure.  • Ensured all legal standards were met. Maintenance Control Clerk United States Navy - Kaneohe, HI February 2011 to January 2016 • Efficiently tracked, managed and updated technical manual publications.  • Assisted with maintaining and managing the database as a data entry specialist.  • Assisted in maintaining accurate aircraft administrative records.  • Performed various clerical duties to assist upper chain of command.  • Assisted in implementing network infrastructures, optimizing performance, standardizing tools and upgrading information systems capabilities. Education B. S. in Computer Science in Computer Science Maryland College - Adelphi, MD August 2019 Skills Comptia (Less than 1 year), Css. (Less than 1 year), Html (Less than 1 year), Java (Less than 1 year), Javascript (Less than 1 year), Mac (Less than 1 year), Mac os (Less than 1 year), Security (Less than 1 year), Server administration (Less than 1 year), Vmware (Less than 1 year), MYSQL, DBA Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E-6