Sr. Database Administrator Sr. <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Database Administrator - GSS InfoTech ? Over Five (6+) years of experience in IT industry as a Database Administrator, Designer, Developer and Support of MS SQL Server 2017/2016/2014/2012/2008R2/ 2008/ 2005/ 2000 in Production, Test, Development and Replication & Cluster Server Environments.  ? Working as on-site coordinator and distributing work among off -shore team members.  ? Experienced working with teams spread globally.  ? Experienced working in an environment with multiple RDBMS systems (SQL, Oracle, AS400, MySQL, etc.)  ? Support and setup SQL clusters with active passive layout with up to 4 node active-active layout.  ? Support and setup highly available SQL solutions using Always On availability.  ? Experienced in configuring and setting up Multi-subnet Always On availability groups.  ? Setup SQL server farms on extreme IO (SSD) storage to provide support to high IO utilizing applications.  ? Setup replication between SQL servers, Oracle & SQL server, AS400 and SQL and even MySQL & SQL server.  ? Experienced in Installation, Configuration, Maintenance and Administration of SQL Server 2000 /2005 /2008 /2008R2 /2012 /2016 /2017.  ? Worked heavily with SSIS - Build ETL processes from different data sources like Oracle/DB2i/DB2-LUW to SQL Server/DB2-LUW.  ? Experienced in building, deploying and troubleshooting SSIS packages.  ? Experienced in developing and deploying SSIS packages using configurations files.  ? Experienced in building, setting up and supporting reporting services (SSRS).  ? Experienced in working with Business's RTO and RPO.  ? When performance issues arise, determine the most effective way to increase performance including hardware purchases, server configuration changes, or index/query changes.  ? Writing and improving SQL Server T-SQL queries for 5+ years.  ? Experience in Performance Tuning, Query Optimization, Client/Server Connectivity, and Database Consistency Checks using DBCC Utilities and DMV's.  ? Experienced in working with Windows server 2012/R2, Windows server 2008 R2, Windows server 2008, Windows server 2003, and Windows server 2000 Administration.  ? Experience in upgrading/migrating SQL Server from lower to higher versions. Using both In-Place and side-by-side model.  Certificate of Excellence from Microsoft  ? Microsoft SQL Server 2008 -Designing, Optimizing and Maintaining a Database Administrative Solution (070-450)  ? Microsoft SQL Server 2008 - Implementation and Maintenance (070-432) Work Experience Sr. Database Administrator GSS InfoTech - Pleasant Prairie, WI April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Provide primary DBA support for application databases, including space monitoring and managing security, backup/recovery, performance tuning, and database refresh processes  • Installed and configured SQL Server 2012/2014/2016 Enterprise edition on Active/Passive Cluster and standalone environment.  • Setup heterogenous data replication using SQL native replication, Vision Double-Take Share, Attunity and SSIS.  • Serve as a team member on projects to advise on data and database-related issues and represent the enterprise view of the database; collaborate with project lead and others to transform logical data models into physical database designs; build physical databases to support projects; review, test, and evaluate the impact of changes to the database environment  • Provide support to technology & business teams as needed during development, delivery, & design to guarantee robust, strong, scalable solutions  • Manage installation and configuration, systems integrations, job scheduling, and security  • Perform daily system monitoring: verifying the integrity and availability of all server resources, systems and key processes, reviewing system/application logs for errors, vulnerabilities, and improvements, and verifying completion of scheduled jobs such as backups  • Research and recommend innovative, and where possible, automated approaches for database administration tasks; identify approaches that leverage our resources and provide economies of scale  • Provide Tier I/II support per request; perform troubleshooting and diagnostic tracing  • Recover from hardware/software failures; coordinate and communicate with impacted constituencies  • Maintain secure, compliant, current environments by applying patches/fix packs on a regular basis; assess/recommend upgrades/feature packs and replacements as needed  • Maintain operational, configuration, or other procedures  • Perform periodic performance reporting to support capacity planning  • Perform ongoing performance tuning, hardware upgrades, and resource optimization as required  • Adhere to/contribute to best practice standards, continuous improvement  • Demonstrate leadership abilities and positive attitude  • Balance concurrent assignments  • Participate in 24x7 on-call rotations    Tools: MS SQL Server 2016, 2014, 2012, Windows server 2012, 2008/R2, SQL Server Management Studio, Aqua Data Studio, SQL Profiler, Performance Monitor, Database Migration Advisor, Resource Governor, Visual Studio 2017/2015/2010, Vision Double Take Share, SSIS, TFS, Spotlight, Attunity Database Administrator GSS InfoTech\InfoVision - PA March 2013 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Work with project team to help build an ideal database environment for a new application.  • Providing 24 X 7supports for production environment.  • Configuration and Installation of SQL Server 2008/2012 Active- Passive and Multi Node Cluster(4 Nodes) on windows 2012/2008.  • Migrating and upgrading SQL instances from SQL 2000 to SQL 2005/2008 in dev/test/production environments.  • Project DBA for database applications. Activities - Installing/configuring SQL server, patching, troubleshooting, performance tuning.  • Primary DBA for code change deployment from DEV to MAIN to QA to PROD to TR, using Visual Studio schema compare project.  • Primary DBA for various assigned servers in development/test/staging/production environments.  • Deploy database change scripts provided by third party vendors.  • Configure SQL Server monitoring utilities to minimize false alarms.  • Deployed DTS/ SSIS Packages and did the Optimization of the Packages.  • Using Profiler traces and other tools to find the most frequently run queries.  • Promoted the SSIS Packages in different Environments like QA, Staging and Production.  • Populated the Database tables from heterogeneous source of the business clients using the SSIS Packages.  • Involved in writing Stored Procedures and Functions, Cursors to handle database automation tasks.  • Document the company's database environment.  • Optimization of Stored procedures, Slow running Queries and indexes.  • Implemented clustering, Replication, Mirroring and Log-shipping as a High availability features.    Tools: MS SQL Server 2012/2008 R2/2008/2005/2000, SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Profiler, SQL Server Tuning Advisor, Idera's SQL Diagnostic Manager, SQL Litespeed, SQLIOSIM, Red-gate SQL Compare. SQL Server DBA GSS InfoTech\InfoVision - Westport, CT August 2012 to February 2013 Description:  Bridgewater Associates is an American investment management firm founded by Ray Dalio in 1975. Bridgewater manages approximately $130 billion in global investments for a wide array of institutional clients, including foreign governments and central banks, corporate and public pension funds, University endowments and charitable foundations. Approximately 1,200 people work at Bridgewater, which is based in Westport, Connecticut.  Responsibilities:  • Installed and configured SQL Server 2008 Enterprise edition on Active/Passive Cluster environment.  • Successfully migrated from SQL Server 2005 to 2008 on Dev/Testing/production Environment.  • Applied patches and hotfixes on production servers.  • Implemented Resource Governor for one of the critical server for better performance.  • Applied Page and row compression to efficiently organize the space.  • Migrated new database structures, such as tables, indexes and stored procedures from development to the production environment.  • Monitored database system details within the database, including stored procedures and execution time and implement efficiency improvements.  • Development of automated daily, weekly and monthly system maintenance tasks such as database backup, Mirroring, database integrity verification, indexing and statistics updates.  • Implemented the Data Collector to capture the CPU, DISK, Memory counters.  • Implement table partitioning to improve performance and data management.  • Database and SQL Query Tuning to improve performance of loads.  • Reduced the dead locks by using the SQL Server Profiler and setting up Trace flags for every day monitoring.  • Created automatically running stored procedures for day-end operation using SQL Server agent.  Environment:  Windows server 2003/2008, MS SQL Server 2008/2005/2000, SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Profiler, SQL Server Tuning Advisor Idera's SQL Diagnostic Manager, SQLIOSIM, Red-gate SQL Compare. Education Master of Science in Information Systems Engineering and Management Harrisburg University Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering New York Institute of Technology - New York, NY