SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SQL Server Database Administrator Lawrenceville, GA Database Administrator with more than 5 years' experience designing, implementing and maintaining SQL Server solutions in an Enterprise environment. A reliable, responsible and self-motivated team player. Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator Torres AES - Atlanta, GA March 2014 to June 2019 • Perform Technical analysis and troubleshooting on complex database problems.  • Working with developers, support and QA team to maintain all database environment.  • Database administration activities including; installation, configuration, capacity planning and space management.  • Setting up and monitoring Replication (transactional, snapshot, and merge).  • Migrated SSIS packages from SQL Server 2008 R2 to SSIS 2012.  • Upgrading database (in place and side by side).  • Recovery databases from backup in disasters, implementing Point-in-Time Recovery solutions.  • Troubleshooting production issues.  • Scheduling Maintenance jobs and backup.  • Performance Tuning using SQL Profiler and Database Engine tuning advisor.  • Employed best practices in creating tables, stored procedures, views, clustered and non-clustered indexes.  • Performed data Import and Export Operations using SSIS and import/export utility.  • Installed and configured SQL server 2008R2, 2012, 2014, and 2016 in various environments.  • Configuring and monitoring AlwaysOn availability replicas.  • Assisting with capacity planning and storage space management.  • Developed Backup strategies and Recovery solutions.  • Creating and Implementing Databases, Tables, Schemas, Indexes, and Constraints.  • Provided 24 x 7 business critical production server environments support (on-call).  • Setting up and monitoring transactional replication.  • Migration of On premises databases to SQL Server Azure. Asset Protection Supervisor Army National Guard - AF February 2013 to February 2014 • Selected for elite security details providing protection for medical emergencies, visiting generals, secretary of defense and other high-ranking officials.  • Conducted 700 vehicle/personnel searches, routine security patrols, and provided over watch for flight line operations in a FOB of over 5,000 military personnel's, their Afghan counterparts and other allied nations; Which led to a decrease in high-level threats.  • Strongly communicated with all levels of management to prevent less confusion in a combat environment.  • Managed a group of 4 Soldiers and trained over 20 new trainees on daily mission functions, which prepared the individuals for tactical and technical operations. Education Dove Technology DeKalb Technical College Skills DATABASE, SQL SERVER, REPLICATION, SQL, CLUSTERING, SSIS, ETL Military Service Branch: United States National Guard Rank: E-5