Oracle Database Administrator Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator 3+ years of experience as Oracle Database Administrator having hands on experience in database  administration, production support, installation, configuration, upgrading, patching, performance tuning,  backup and recovery, cloning, data refreshes, space management, and migration. Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Verizon Wireless - Irvine, CA November 2015 to February 2018 Worked as Production Support and Operations Database administrator supporting multiple databases in  Production and Non-Production environments.  Installed and configured 3-Node RAC environments for High Availability.  Worked with application teams to understand new functionalities being introduced, to create database  objects accordingly in lower environments for testing.  Documented and published Release notes to application teams for Enterprise releases.  Supported multiple enterprise releases by pushing the changes to production, and resolving any issues  encountered by application teams during testing and go-live phases.  Created shell scripts to automate data load from feed files using SQL*Loader, refresh of critical data, and proactive monitoring jobs.  Administered and managed 3 way data replication using Shareplex and Goldengate.  Upgraded 11.2.0.3 version 3 Node RAC environment to 12.1.0.2 version.  Applied CPU and PSU patches in production and non-production environments.  Migrated on-premise development and test database instances to Amazon Web Services Cloud Platform.  Space/Storage management of ASM disks, diskgroups and tablespaces.  Improved SQL performance by creating Indexes, SQL Profiles and SQL Baselines as required.  Refreshed multiple databases, schemas and tables in lower environments from production/other  environments on ad-hoc requests.  Supported as On-Call 24x7 hour DBA for production and critical development databases. Oracle Database Administrator Allergan - Irvine, CA November 2014 to November 2015 Worked as operations database administrator supporting 415 databases in production and non production  environments with sizes ranging from 100GB to 11TB.  Worked on ServiceNow requests assigned to database team, which involved working on approved  tickets and resolving incidents based on priority.  Supported data center migration activity of 200 databases in 4 phases.  Performed RMAN cloning/duplication and RMAN transportable tablespace cross platform database  migration(HP-UX to AIX and HP-UX to Redhat).  Configured RMAN backups to tape using NetBackup.  Implemented Oracle flashback feature for major application upgrades.  Wrote shell scripts to automate tasks like purging trace, audit and archive log files.  Performed day to day tasks like user creations, managing user privileges and roles, space management of tablespaces, creating new database objects like tables, indexes, materialized views, views, database links  etc.  Refreshed schemas, tables and databases using export and import datapump utilities.  Upgraded single instance databases from 11.2.0.1 to 11.2.0.4 version.  Applied CPU and PSU patches in production and lower environments.  Provided 24x7 on-call operational support. Education Master of Science in Engineering Technology Pittsburg State University ? - Pittsburg, KS 2014 Skills DATABASES (3 years), ORACLE (3 years), DATA REPLICATION (2 years), REPLICATION (2 years), WEB SERVICES (2 years) Additional Information Skills  Installing, Configuring, Upgrading, and Export, Import Datapump utilities  Patching Oracle databases versions 10g, 11g, and Dataguard  12c Oracle Flashback Technology  Backup and Point in time Recovery using Oracle Partitioning  RMAN Shell Scripting  RMAN Cloning/Duplication Amazon Web Services  NetBackup Oracle Enterprise Manager  Data Replication (Shareplex and Goldengate) Toad  Cross Platform Migration(HP-UX to AIX,  HP-UX to RedHatLinux)  ASM Administration and space management in  ASM.  Configuring and Upgrading 3-Node RAC  envrironments