Production SQL Server Database Administrator Production SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Production SQL Server Database Administrator - Modaj Pro IT Solutions Lake Jackson, TX Experience IN SQL Server Administration and Engineering  ? Over 6 years of experience in Database Administration, System Analysis, Design and Support of MS SQL Server 2017/2016/2014/2012/2008R2/2008/2005 in Production, Test, Development, Stand-alone and Clustered Environments.  ? Expertise in Performance Tuning, Maintenance, Capacity Planning, High Availability and Disaster Recovery (HADR)  ? Solid experience on AlwaysOn, Clustering, Database Mirroring, Log Shipping, including Replication models (Snapshot, Transactional/Merge)  ? Experience in Database Backup and Restore/Recovery, Query Optimization, Security, SQL Server Installation, Configuration of Stand-alone and Clustered environments  ? Experienced in Migration/Upgrade, applying service packs and routine DBA operations like database health check, index optimization, updating statistics, client/server connectivity and capacity planning.  ? Experienced with ETL processes, SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  ? Responsible for securing SQL Server, User Management, assigning permissions and roles  ? Experienced in using Query Store, Extended Events, Database Engine Tuning Advisor (DTA), SQL Profiler, Scripts and other third party tools to resolve bottlenecks, deadlocks and slow running queries  ? Experienced in database security through configuring transparent database encryption (TDE) and dynamic data masking  ? Experienced in working independently as well as in team-oriented environments  ? Experienced in installing and creating SQL Server Integration Services(SSIS), SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS) and Power BI packages and reports to serve company needs  ? Big on documentation Work Experience Production SQL Server Database Administrator Modaj Pro IT Solutions - Houston, TX May 2015 to Present Responsible for installing, configuring and maintaining SQL Server environment  ? Installed and configured SQL Server instances with backup jobs and database mail  ? Migrated SQL Server databases from SQL Server 2008R2 to 2012  ? Migrated SQL Data from on premises to Azure SQL Database  ? Responsible for High Availabilty and Disaster Recovery Solutions and large scale database migrations from SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2008R2 and 2012  ? Responsible for providing SQL Server problem resolutions and 24X7 production support  ? Created T-SQL scripts, stored procedures, tables, views, functions, triggers and indexes  ? Using SSIS, building high performance data integration solutions, including extraction, transformation and load (ETL) packages for data warehousing  ? Using SSRS delivering delivering enterprise, web-enabled reporting to create reports that draw content from a variety of data source  ? Created automation of day to day operations, critical SQL Server alerts and repetitive tasks  ? Created and Supported SQL Server Clustering, AlwaysOn, Replication and Log Shipping in my environment  ? Upgraded Production, Test and Dev Servers from SQL Server 2012 to SQL Server 2014  ? Setup and maintained Log Shipping between various environments  ? Configured and maintained transactional replication for flow of data from QA and Dev. server to replica servers  ? Responsible for installing and maintaining SSIS, SSRS, SSAS and Power BI  ? Used Scripts, database utility programs and 3rd party tools to monitor database performance, such as deadlock, blocking, expensive queries and memory utilization  ? Resolved SQL Server problems in conformance with SLAs, which involves in-depth knowledge of SQL Server architecture, connectivity, replication, backup/restore, security and continuous improvements  ? Configured Transparent Database Encryption on my mission critical databases  Environment: MS SQL Server 2005 - 2017 Enterprise and Standard Editions, Windows 2012/2008R2, Clustering, AlwaysOn, Mirroring, Log Shipping, Replication, MS Visual Studio, Query Store, Extended Events, SQL Profiler, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS Power BI, MS Office 2013. SQL Server Database Administrator Teknokleen Group - Lagos, NG March 2011 to November 2013 MS SQL Server design, Development and administration using SQL Server 2005 - 2008R2 database environments  ? Monitoring SQL Health check and identifying issues and fixing them  ? Used SQL Indexes for improving query performance, lower storage and maintenance cost  ? Used Optimization tools such as SQL Profiler, Dynamic Management Views (DMVs) and Windows Performance Monitor for monitoring and tuning SQL Server performance  ? Implemented Installation, Configuration and Upgrading of SQL Server  ? Good experience in User Management and maintaining of databases  ? Automation of administrative tasks like creating jobs and schedules, alerts using SQL Server Agent monitoring and troubleshooting jobs, event notifications using Database Mail  ? Maintained server security by assigning logins, server and database roles and server permissions  ? Implemented disaster prevention and recovery strategies and supported High Availability features like Clustering, AlwaysOn, Log Shipping, Database Mirroring and Replication  ? Maintained database response times in 24X7 production environment and proactively generated reports  ? Planned and Implemented database backup/restore and disaster recovery  ? Implemented Log Shipping from Primary to Standby servers  ? Created and maintained SQL objects like Tables, Views, Stored Procedure, Constraints and User defined functions  ? Used tools like SQL Profiler, Fog Light, Red Gate for monitoring my environment    Environment: MS SQL Server 2005 - 2008R2 Enterprise and Standard Editions, Clustering, AlwaysOn, Mirroring, Log Shipping, Replication, Extended Events, SQL Profiler. Education Bachelor of Science in Mathematics Nnamdi Azikiwe University 2009 Additional Information Technical Skills:  ? ETL: SSIS, BI (SSDT)  ? Analytic and problem solving  ? SQL Server Versions: 2017/2016/2014/2012/2008R2/2008/2005  ? Virtualization: Azure, VMware  ? Reporting and Auditing Tools: SSRS, SSDT and Power BI  ? Backup Software: SQLSafe, Red Gate and Idera  ? DB Query and Monitoring Tools: Query Store, Extended Events, DTA. SQL Profiler  ? Operating System: Windows 7, 8, 10, Windows NT/2000/2003/2008 and 2012 Servers and basic knowledge of windows Powershell