Database Administrator (Team Lead) <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> (Team Lead) Database Administrator (Team Lead) Sacramento, CA 3+ years of experience as a Database Administrator with a  strong background in SQL Server. Excellent team player, lead,  and mentor. Passionate about technology and ready to take  on a new challenge. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Administrator (Team Lead) DXC Technology (Formerly HP Enterprise Services) November 2015 to Present • Oversaw smooth and timely delivery of 600+ database clones to enable the $8.8 billion spin- off and merger of Hewlett Packard Enterprise's (HPE) software business.  • Minimized network congestion from database migrations during three company  separations/divestitures by developing a website (C# ASP.NET MVC) which allowed our team to visualize, track, and carefully schedule data migrations.  • Received CIO Award in recognition of significant contribution to internal cloud environment  that enables DXC/HPE/Micro Focus employees to request and generate their own cloud  databases without the need to leverage third party environments. Database Administrator Hewlett-Packard June 2014 to November 2015 • Successfully migrated 1,382 databases for HP's Enterprise Translation Management Architecture (ETMA) application which saves the company roughly $4 million per quarter.  • Maintain thousands of SQL Server databases by working shifts and ensuring 99.999% availability along with proactive monitoring and steady engagement with customers.  • Consult with application teams to assist with planning, execution and monitoring of RFCs and MTPs for systems of all criticality including mission critical.  • Provide innovation support including data migration, performance tuning, and security administration to hundreds of application teams.  • Configure SQL Server databases for high availability using AlwaysOn Availability Groups, Veritas clustering, Windows clustering, and log shipping.  • Restore databases in Production using point in time recovery methods.  • Configure and install SQL Server on Windows and MySQL/MariaDB on Linux. Upgrade SQL Server with minimal downtime using AlwaysOn Availability Groups.  • Thrived on change while providing flexible support on nights and weekends to successfully complete the separation of Hewlett-Packard. Education B.S. in Computer Engineering California State University May 2014 Skills SQL Server, SQL Links http://LinkedIn.com/in/chadcahill