Oracle Database Engineer Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> Engineer Oracle Database Engineer - KeyBank Montana City, MT ? Experienced IT professional 8+ years of experience in managing and maintaining Oracle Databases, Other (RDBMS), software development life cycle (SDLC) and E-Business Suite as well as other enterprise resource planning (ERP) applications.  ? Extensive knowledge on database administration for Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c, with expertise in planning, project management, database security, production support, installation, configuration, upgrades and patches.  ? Strong focus on Linux shell scripting, SQL, migration across a variety of platforms and oracle versions, backup and recovery, performance tuning, cloning, space management security and stakeholder management in very large scale database environment and mission critical large OLTP and OLAP systems.  ? Comfortable with data pump jobs using the exp/imp utility.  ? Excellent in writing/editing UNIX Shell Scripts, PATCHING & UPGRADATION - With expertise in upgrading Oracle Development and Production databases from 10g to 12c, Data guard configuration, implementing and maintaining standby databases.  ? Able to setup Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) Grid Control (11g) & Cloud (12c) for database monitoring/performance/diagnostics; Able to use Peoplesoft and E Business Suite for best practices and to maximize the ability to work smart, minimize cost and increase efficiency between co-workers and excellent customer services  ? Experience in various Database Backups; such as RMAN (Full/Incremental backups), in traditional hot/cold backups, LOGICAL BACKUPS and Database migration tools with DATA PUMP, Export/Import and Transportable tablespaces.  ? Configured Golden Gate  ? Performance Tuning of Databases, Oracle instances, and Applications which included but not limited to finding performance bottlenecks using EXPLAINPLAN, SQLTRACE, TKPROF, AWR, and ADDM.  ? Installed and Managed Physical Standby databases and Data Guard for disaster recovery  ? Possess excellent communication skills by having to coordinate with system administrators, business data analysts and development teams; Along with being well trained in computer services  ? Hands on experience in Oracle 11g RAC implementation & administration (Oracle Clusterware setup and configuration, RAC installation using ASM, Grid Installation)  ? Experience in Performance Tuning using SQLTRACE, TKPROF, STATSPACK, AWR REPORT, ADDM, SQL PLAN MANAGEMENT, EXPLAIN PLAN and maintaining Oracle Databases running on Unix/Linux (Sun Solaris, HP-UX, IBM-AIX, Red Hat Linux) and Windows Operating Systems, Migration of databases from 11g to 12c. and Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Engineer KeyBank - Cleveland, OH September 2017 to Present Supported multiple instance RAC databases for high performance and availability  ? Excellent hands on migrations skills between versions 10g, 11g and 12c databases.  ? Comfortable using OEM for monitoring and maintaining databases for best practices.  ? Administered users and their respective access using administrative standards and procedures.  ? Created, moved and upgraded databases using customized scripts, DBCA and DBUA  ? Decommissioned databases and their servers after upgrades.  ? Edited and ran unix shell and sql scripts as well as stored procedures to effect data changes.  ? Hands on experience Oracle 11gR2 and R12 Installation and configuration using Oracle Universal Installer on Linux Red Hat  ? Worked with ERP financial application systems  ? Worked with other team members and application users on resolving database issues while monitoring and educating them where necessary in order to increase and facilitate workflow.  ? Registered databases on OID  ? Participated in the designing, tuning and management of database objects and also logical models.  ? Hands on experience with creating and testing database codes, adjusting storage components and resizing them as needed.  ? Running DDLs and DMLs on exadata databases.  ? Comfortable with Linux shell scripting and worked with developers and application users to run scripts, functions and packages for effective synchronization of database objects and data changes.  ? Configured Golden Gate  ? Performance Tuning of Databases, Oracle instances, and Applications which included but not limited to finding performance bottlenecks using EXPLAINPLAN, SQLTRACE, TKPROF, AWR, and ADDM.  ? Installed and Managed Physical Standby databases and Data Guard for disaster recovery  ? Used Golden gate for data extraction, transformation and delivery of data.  ? Worked with and trained offshore team members to facilitate entire project implementation on both exadata and non-exadata servers.  ? Actively monitored security issues by unlocking user accounts, granting, revoking and updating user privileges manually and also using in-house packages and procedures; making sure just the right amount of access needed is available.  ? Refreshed and restored data between databases and application servers.  ? Participated in active documentation of problems and possible solutions and shared with the team.  ? Used RMAN duplicate and Crontab for cloning and moving database between Rac and exadata servers and databases.  ? I was involved disk space management and added tablespaces where needed while following company standards.  ? Reclaimed tablespaces  ? Proactively research on team issues and proposed possible solutions  ? Reviewed DDLs - I have a solid understanding of best practices (can suggest changes to make)  ? Ran DMLs for developers on QA and prod boxes (SQL assistant)  ? I used service now for assigning, completing, closing out tasks and incident tickets  ? Troubleshoot and resolved user and database issues to ensure the data warehouse met service level requirements.  ? Used golden gate to replicate data as alternative backup for upgraded databases.  ? Provided guidance/cross-training to other team members  ? Flexible to render help when/where needed and very open to learning new technologies.    Environment: Oracle 11g/12c, Linux (RHEL), Sun Solaris, SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX/Linux, Windows, TOAD, SQL Navigator, SQL* Loader, Autosis, RMAN, Crontab, OEM 11gR2/12c, expdp/impdp, Oracle GoldenGate, Exadata, MS Sql Server,RAC    EXPERIENCE Oracle Infrastructure Eng Nationwide Insurance - Columbus, OH May 2015 to August 2017 Apps Support DBA    ? Checked, Ran and Monitored automated bash jobs for smooth running and efficiency  ? Edited Unix/Linux Shell scripts for implementation and sometimes registration of databases, created all required roles, applied all necessary patches, did all the backups and recovery necessary as well as required troubleshooting and tuning.  ? Provided daily performance reports on overnight jobs when required to.  ? Managed and tuned storage resources for effective accessibility and on-time delivery of work required on standalone, Rac and exadata databases.  ? Used TOAD, OEM and command line to run and execute manually written scripts as well as stored functions and procedures.  ? Create and Manage DB Links  ? Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN. OEM and also implemented recovery strategies.  ? Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  ? Applied RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.  ? Implemented proactive monitoring tactics using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, AWR reports and EXPLAIN PLAN.  ? Worked in a team for data Migration of databases across 11g to 12c databases  ? Hands on experience in OEM migration across 11gR2 to 12c  ? Performed database monitoring, maintenance and replication process using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager) and TOAD  ? Backed up and Recovered database files and full databases using RMAN and Data guard.  ? Performed refreshes, deployments and cloning using Data Pump EXPDP/IMPDP utility.  ? Resetting and changing user profiles and passwords as needed while coordinating with middleware accordingly.  ? Proficient with ServiceNow, E-Business suite, ADS, and Remedy ticketing systems  ? Supported ERP Application users and resolved performance issues.  ? Resolved and manage Incidents depending on their priority level  ? Used Golden Gate for data capture and replication  ? Applied quarterly patches and worked on multiple releases  Release Activities:  ? Provided off hours support for database activities.  ? Plan/coordinate/execute tasks with the application team to ensure all are successfully completed  ? Report completion of activities to the management team.  ? Schedule time with developers if there are questions/issues regarding release work.  ? Attend release implementation meetings.  ? Review scripts to lessen issues on execution day.  On Call Duties:  ? Used IGNITE and OEM to monitor systems.  ? Checked into poorly running queries that are affecting system performance.  ? Responded to incident requests and effectively communicated progress to the team  ? Actively monitored and responded to urgent service now requests.  ? Ensured backups are running over the weekend and escalate any issues to the system dbas.  ? Completed Emergency or Urgent RFC DDL/DML/restore activity.  ? Provided run support and production during weekend.    Environment: Oracle 11g/12c, Linux (RHEL), Sun Solaris, SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX/Linux, Windows, TOAD, SQL Navigator, SQL* Loader, Autosis,RMAN, OEM 11gR2/12c, expdp/impdp, Oracle GoldenGate 11gR2, Exadata, Microsoft Sql Server,RAC Oracle Core DBA /Production Support Database Administrator North Jersey Insurance Group - Elmwood Park, NJ January 2013 to April 2015 Experience in Oracle 11gR2 installation using Oracle Universal Installer with Windows 10.  ? Hands on experience with Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c installation and upgrades of both the databases and O.E.M Cloud Control.  ? Worked with other developers to develop, create and update new and existing Unix/Linux shell scripts for exadata databases..  ? Edited and ran unix shell and sql scripts as well as stored procedures to effect data changes.  ? Hands on experience Oracle 11gR2 and R12 Installation and configuration using Oracle Universal Installer on Linux Red Hat  ? Worked with ERP financial application systems  ? Worked with other team members and application users on resolving database issues while monitoring and educating them where necessary in order to increase and facilitate workflow  ? Performed logical backups and extensively used Golden gate for re-hosting applications  ? Performed Logical backups EXPDP/IMPDP and worked with conventional EXP/IMP for migrating data from 10G to 11g and 12c.  ? Schedule RMAN backups, purge jobs, used DBMS_JOBS, DBMS_SCHEDULER, Crontab and $UNIVERSE.  ? Performed Oracle Data Pump to export & import data, migration of regular databases to Oracle Exadata, and used Exadata to maximize performance on batch jobs and big data  ? Responsible for planning, designing and implementing a backup, restore, and recovery strategy using RMAN & Data Pump (Import/Export)  ? Hands on experience creating users, unlock accounts, grant roles and privileges to users  ? Worked with the team on Golden Gate Configuration  ? Created and configured databases and fined tuned their parameters to suit production environment needs.  ? Modified database objects using sql on the command line as well as other tuning tools like OEM and TOAD.  ? Hands on experience creating database objects such as tables, views, indexes using DDLs  ? Used Golden gate for data extraction, transformation and delivery across diverse platforms  ? Loaded data into database using DMLs, administered and set-up of 11g RAC and 10g RAC clusterware and instances for Oracle  ? Proficient at writing complex SQL queries - Performance tuning - Tune SQL statements, I/O, Memory, worked extensively on SQL Profiler, Explain Plan and Stats Pack for tuning top wait events, and high cost SQL's.  ? Hands on experience with ER Assistant creating Entity Relationship Diagrams & identifying integrity constraints  ? Experience creating database using Database Configuration Assistant DBCA  ? Troubleshoot connectivity to database on Windows 10/Linux Red Hat  ? Daily error checks/monitoring database disk space and memory  ? Utilized OEM for monitoring, job scheduling, tuning, and other routine DBA activities  ? Supported and managed Oracle applications on 11R2 and 12c Databases  Environment: Oracle 10g/11g/12c, Linux (RHEL), Sun Solaris, SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX/Linux, Windows XP, TOAD, SQL Navigator, SQL* Loader, Autosis, OEM 11gR2, RMAN, expdp/impdp, Oracle GoldenGate 11gR2, Exadata, MS Sql Server. Oracle Production Support Database Administrator Pitney Bowes - Stamford, CT August 2010 to December 2012 Installed, configured, migrated and consistently upgraded operating systems and software for Windows 10, various schema, Oracle 11.1.0.7, and Oracle 10.2.0.5 databases on AIX platforms.  ? Monitored databases and application servers using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) 10g Grid Control.  ? Loaded data from flat files to database using SQL*Loader, External Tables.  ? Extensively used AWR, ADDM and explain plan for periodic performance tuning.  ? Implemented Data pump, conventional export/import utility of Oracle 11g, 10g for reorganizing Databases/Schemas/Tables to improve the performance.  ? Performed Database upgrade from Oracle 10g (9.2.0.7) to Oracle 10g (10.2.0.5) and to Oracle 11g (11.1.0.7) RAC database.  ? Performed full & incremental backup (cumulative and differential) using RMAN and implemented recovery strategies.  ? Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  ? Designed and implemented the database servers for two new data centers.  ? Performance Tuning of Databases, Oracle instances, and Applications. Finding Performance bottlenecks using EXPLAINPLAN, SQLTRACE, TKPROF, AWR, and ADDM. Install and Managed Physical Standby databases and Data Guard for disaster recovery.  ? Planned, designed and implemented a backup and recovery strategy using RMAN - physical backup - and Data Pump (Import/Export) - logical backup, respectively.  ? Managed user access to the planning databases and implemented security into their resource systems.  ? Conducted frequent backups to ensure proper functioning of database, heavily utilized OEM for monitoring, job scheduling, performed tuning to the system when needed, and other routine DBA activities.  ? Created User accounts, roles and granted required access permissions and privileges to the division users.  ? Integrated Backup Status Reporting for all the databases in the company to enable the web reporting using Oracle SQL, PLSQL  ? Monitored, traced, troubleshoot and resolved performance, capacity and backup related issues inside an ERP System.  ? Developed UNIX Shell scripts to automate database operation and database monitoring  Environment: Oracle 10g/11g, Linux (RHEL), RAC, Sun Solaris, SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX (Korn Shell), Windows XP, TOAD, SQL Navigator, SQL* Loader, RMAN, expdp/impdp Education Bachelor's Skills Sql server, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Aix Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  OS/Databases: Oracle, SQL Server, MC Access, Red Hat Linux RHEL 5.x, Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10, Windows 2008, XP, Solaris, AIX  Software/Application Tools: DBCA, DBUA, Recovery Manager (RMAN), Oracle Enterprise Manager, OEM, OEM Grid Control Oracle Data Guard, Oracle Management, Service (OMS), ASM, SQL, SQL*Plus, Real Application Cluster  Languages: PL/SQL, SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting, Ksh, bash, PERL Scripting  GUI Tools: TOAD, Data Pump (expdp, impdp), SQL, Navigator  Tuning Tools: SQL, TRACE, TKPROF, AWR, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, ADDM, TOAD, Putty, NX Client, Winscp, Exadata  Web Tools: HTML, XML