Oracle/SQL Database Administrator Oracle/SQL <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle/SQL Database Administrator - PeopleSoft Financial Texas, VT I have over 9 years of extensive experience in Oracle Database Administration Installation, Configuration, Patch Installation, Migration, Upgrades, Backup and Recovery, Cloning, Replication, Database Security, Memory Management, Data Modelling, Performance Monitoring and Tuning, RAC, Data Guard, Grid Control and Oracle Streams. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle/SQL Database Administrator PeopleSoft Financial - Austin, TX January 2017 to Present • Worked on Multitenant Databases (Oracle 12c Container and pluggable databases)  • Worked as a team member for 24x7 support with on call rotation in all prod, QA and dev environments.  • Monitor for performance and tune PeopleSoft Financial applications running Application release 9.x2 and PeopleTools 8.54.  • Setup New databases on Clustered and Non clustered environment and Implemented Maximum Availability Architecture using RAC, DATAGUARD and Golden Gate  • Upgrade 11G RAC to 12c RAC and Administering the RAC Environment through SRVCTL and CRSCTL and applied patches in rolling fashion  • Performs a variety of complex tasks associated with information security ranging from the design of security components to complex architectures.  • Knowledge of dataencryption (transparent encryption), data-at-rest, and unstructured dataprotection, Key Management Solution (KMS).  • Data Warehouse experience in data Architecture, full life cycle development, dimensional modeling, star and snowflake schema. Developing transact-SQL DDL, DML and DCL commands including complex queries, views, functions, stored procedures, cursors and triggers on SQL server 2012 R2/2016.  • Worked on 12c RAC new builds and administering 12c RAC and managed ASM on RAC  • Configured diskgroups with different redundancy levels and created fail groups and managing and tuning ASM parameters  • Configuration & Troubleshooting the Oracle DataGuard & GoldenGate environment in Oracle 11g & 12c versions.  • Configured Golden Gate 12c RAC, RAC Active configuration with 12c database  • Hands on experience in GGSCI utility for administering Extract, Pump, Replicate & reviewing the error logs and troubleshooting Abend scenarios.  • Configured GoldenGate BI-DIRECTIONAL replication and extensively used CDR parameters  • Full database, Schema refresh using RMAN, Datapump and Implemented the Backup strategies using RMAN catalog and nocatalog methods.  • Setting up of Oracle and Application user accounts and passwords, monitoring application security.  • Responsible to improve the performance by Using the Hints, Indexes, Explain Plan  • Handled High volume production databases around 4 TB size along with Physical standby databases  • Proficient in Oracle High Availability features like RAC, DATA GUARD, GRID CONTROL and Oracle Performance Tuning Utilities like ADDM, AWR, ASH, SQL-Tuning Advisor, EXPLAIN PLAN, TK PROF, DBV.  • Performed Data file recovery from logical and physical block corruptions  • Good understanding and Implementation expertise in RAC, ASM, Data Guard like remedy change and user tickets, frequently communicate effectively with technical and non-technical customers.  • Exp on Cluster management, event management, application management, connection management, storage management, load balancing and availability. Continuous monitoring of performance during peak and non-peak loads using AWR reports, ASH, ADDM and Optimization SQL code using SQL Trace, tkrpof, Explain plan.  • Experience working with SQL, PL/SQL coding, stored procedures, functions, packages, triggers.  • Partitioning strategies for very large tables. Implemented Range, List, Hash and various Sub Partitions, Create and schedule refresh for materialized views.  • Work with Oracle Data Pump (expdp and impdp) which provides high speed, parallel, bulk data and metadata movement of Oracle database contents.  • Management of schema objects, partitioning of tables & indexes and performing SQL*Loader jobs for loading data from flat files (ETL) and Oracle Database monitoring, troubleshoot and resolve the issues.  • SQL tuning - AWR history of sql execution, index recommendations, SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Access Advisor, Real Time SQL Monitoring, Interpret Execution plans, Re-write more efficient SQLs.  • Data Refresh of large production data warehouse environment to setup test, development environments using SAN level storage mirroring: Gold image copy and cloning.  • Tuned the Database and applications using AWR, ADDM, STATSPACK, ESTIMATE, ANALYSE, EXPLAINPLAN, SQLTRACE, and TKPROF and gathered DBMS statistics.  • Configured RAC database with 4 nodes. Implemented Data Guard, Physical and logical Stand by databases to ensure high availability, data protection and disaster recovery.  • Improving the performance of the database by tuning SQL and database instance parameters using Automatic Database Diagnostic Monitor and SQL Tuning Advisor in Oracle 10g  • Using TCP/IP Protocol Configured SQL*Net files on server / client machines, and resolved client connectivity issues.  • Worked on setting up Physical Standby Data Guard environment for Prod & non-prod databases.  • Provide support to developers to enhance their SQL, PL/SQL code and responsible for setting up of new user accounts, schema Deployments and related user administrative tasks.  • Successful in installation/maintenance of Physical Standby database using Oracle Data Guard for Oracle 11.2.0.3 and Oracle 10.2.0.5 RAC databases.  • Implemented proactive monitoring using Tuning Pack, Diagnostics Pack, and STATSPACK, SQL Trace & TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN.  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager). Oracle DBA Windstream Communications - Twinsburg, OH August 2013 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Experience working on POC of 12c new features like Redaction policy, adaptive query optimization, multiple indexes on single column, Restore table through RMAN etc  • Able to resolve the performance issue in database 12c using automatic big data caching, full database caching and In-Memory Aggregation features.  • Hand on experience in cloning the non-multitenant container database to pluggable database in 12c using the PDB Metadata clone, PDB Remote Clone and PDB Snapshot Cloning feature.  • Performed database administration, production support, installation, configuration, upgrades, patches, migration, backup and recovery, performance tuning, and cloning on the above said versions.  • Configured Goldengate 12c RAC -- RAC Active configuration with 11g database.  • Configured and worked in Oracle GoldenGate installation, configuration, troubleshooting GoldenGate issues.  • Database reorganizations and refresh schema-using Export/Import. Creating the database, table spaces, tables, indexes, setting privileges and user logins.  • Monitored and performed database sizing, tablespace management and rollback tablespace management, transaction management and security administration  • Data migration between databases using both Oracle 10g and 11g export/import utility and Oracle 11g exp/imp data pump.  • Experience in handling Multi-Terabyte Database migrations/Consolidations with minimum/no downtime.  • Experienced with all facets of Oracle DBA day-to-day activities like production, database monitoring, Backup & Recovery using RMAN, Cloning, Troubleshooting production issues, and Physical Database Design.  • Extensive Experience in working with the Tools like OEM, AWR, ASH, ADDM Expdp/Impdp, SQL Tuning Advisor, SQL Plan Baselines.  • Good Experience in applying patches like Critical Patch Updates (CPU), Patch Set Updates (PSU), and One-Off Patches, Interim patches, DST, Patch sets as per the Oracle recommendations.  • Installed & configured Oracle Management Server (OMS) & Oracle Grid Control.  • Extensive knowledge in maintain Oracle Cluster ware using Srvctl, Crsctl, has, ocrconfig, cluvfy, Private IP, public IP, SCAN IP and Virtual IPs along with NAS and SAN for ASM storage.  • Apply the oracle security patches (CPU patch / PSU patch) on standalone database, Oracle RAC and clusterware (oracle 11g - Grid Infrastructure)  • Providing Level 3 operational support for the database tower.  • Responsible for database maintenance, backups, recovery, patching, upgrades and performance tuning, user access control  • Successfully implemented physical standby database using Oracle Data guard and Active Data guard feature for High availability configuration in RAC environment.  • Monitoring and troubleshooting database issues with OEM grid control.  • Very comfortable in using ASM for creating diskgroups, adding additional storage (DISKS) and troubleshooting ASM issues  • Performed proactive and reactive tuning/managing database space utilization and growth.  • Implementing Oracle ASM and resolving ASM related issues  • Detailed analysis of the business and users requirements by doing various information gathering techniques.    Environment: Oracle 10g, 11g, 12C, Unix shell script, Grid Control, Data Guard, IBM AIX, Sun Solaris, Oracle Linux, SQL*Plus, Toad, Various 10g and 11g Advisories, AWR and Statspack Reports, EXPDP/IMPDP, EXP/IMP, PL/SQL, RMAN, Crontab, Tivoli Storage Management for DB tape backups, BMC Patrol for DB monitoring. Oracle Production Support Database Administrator CDW - Chicago, IL March 2010 to July 2013 • Active member in making enterprise hardware infrastructure related decisions with IT management  • Involve in meetings with top IT management to discuss platform migrations  • Installed, Setup, Configured Oracle version 10g Release2 64 Bit on Solaris 10 and HP-UX11  • Migrating from Oracle 10g Sun Solaris 10 to Oracle 11g SUSE Linux (SLES) 10  • Built Oracle MAA Physical Standby and Logical Standby and configure Data Guard Broker for High Availability/Disaster Recovery purpose  • Perform planned switchover and failover to physical standby database with and without Data Guard Broker to verify availability status  • Transferring data from one server to another server by Export/Import Data Pump and Normal Export /Import utilities  • Refresh Test/Dev/Quality/Training/Sandbox environment from Production for Apps Team.  • Regularly applying all CPU & PSU Patches to All Oracle Databases using Opatch  • Extensively used Oracle 10gR2 new features automatic SGA tuning, enhanced RMAN with Flash Recovery Area, Block Change Tracking, Merge backup, Oracle Data Pump, big file tablespaces, new EM Grid Control, Database Control, Studio Control, AWR, ADDM, SQL Tuning/Access Advisors, Flashback Database and several others  • Capture, Staging and Apply from the production Database to the Target database  • Implemented DATA GUARD (Physical Standby) for high availability/disaster recovery purpose.  • Rebuilding of Indexes for better performance, maintenance of Oracle Database  • Performance tuning of Oracle Database Objects by fixing row chaining  • Performance tuning for optimized results using tools like EXPLAIN PLAN, SQL*TRACE, TKPROF, STATSPACK.  • Tuned parameters for a large monthly SQL* Loader job resulting in 90% reduction of operation time  • Database monitoring/maintenance, replication process and performance tuning are done using OEM (Oracle Enterprise Manager).  • Experience in implementation of enterprise databases on enterprise Storage Solutions using Storage area Networks (SAN) and Network attached storage (NAS).  • Experience in system Monitoring and Database Performance Tuning using Explain plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, AWR and also Cluster Interconnect Tuning (RAC).  • Provided valuable inputs for various performance tuning issues.  • Proficient in performance tuning using Explain Plan, STATSPACK, TKPROF, AWR, ADDM. Performance Tuning of the database (Memory Tuning, I/O Tuning).  • Expert in Performance Tuning and Monitoring of Oracle Databases on Unix/Linux platform using database tuning, Tkprof, Explain plan, AWR and ADDM reports, Advisors as SQL Tuning, SQL Advice, Undo, Segment, MTTR, Memory.  • Refreshed/cloned databases using RMAN utility.  • Performed Database upgrade from Oracle 9i (9.2.0.7) to Oracle 10g (10.2.0.5) and to Oracle 11g (11.1.0.7) RAC database.  • Successful in applying RDBMS patches, security patches for improving the security and functionality of the databases.    Environment: Oracle 11.1.0.7, 11.2.0.3, IBM AIX V6.1, Suse Linux, RAC, ASM, RMAN, AWR, ADDM, SQL* Plus , SQL*Loader, OEM, TOAD 10.0.    Environment: HP-UX, Windows, Oracle, 10g, 11g, SQL, PL/SQL, SQL plus, TOAD Education Bachelor's Skills Database administration, Data modeling, Database, Sql server, Oltp Additional Information Professional Skills  • Delivering Oracle Database performance-tuning services for customers with Explain Plan, Tkprof, StatsPack, and SQL Trace.  • Excellent experience in Installation and configuration of Oracle 12c,11g, 10g,9i in UNIX/LINUX and Windows environment.  • Upgraded Databases from 9i to 10g, 10gto 11gand 11g to 12c on various platforms.  • Proficient in Database administration activities such as user management, space management, Monitoring, Creating Database, Managing Oracle Instance and Database security and Materialized Views.  • Performance Tuning of the database (Memory Allocation Tuning, I/O Tuning, Tuning Contentions) using oracle 11g tools like AWR, ADDM, Advisories, TKPROF, SQL TRACE,EXPLAIN PLAN for the better performance.  • Performance Monitoring and Tuning of Database using Grid Control & Diagnostic pack (AWR, ASH ADDM)  • Experience in taking Full and partial backups, Incremental and Cumulative backups using RMAN (Recovery Manager).  • Performed in upgrading SQL server software to new versions and applying service packs and patches.  • Performed in upgrading SQL server software to new versions and applying service packs and Recovery Planning, Security Management, Managing server and clients.  • Proficient with SQL server Management Studio, Scheduling jobs with SQL server Agent and SQL Profiler.  • Supported teams in resolving SQL Server Reporting services and T-SQL related issues.  • Experience in performing point in time recovery at times of necessity.  • Design and implement backup and recovery including disaster recovery structures.  • Familiar with Data Warehousing (ETL), Data mining and OLTP concepts and ASM, SAN.  • Extensive experience in Performance Tuning of database, instances, SGA, I/O, and Rollback segment using different methods and detecting locks.  • Wrote scripts to inform the DBA team on the status, performance and space management of the database  • Performance tuning of the database - SQL Tuning, Used Tuning utilities like STATSPACK, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, AWR, ADDM and Tuning of SGA, distribution of disk I/O, Sizing of tables and indexes  • installed and configured Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g, 12c on Sun Solaris AIX, UNIX/LINUX, HP-UX and Windows environment.  • Synch -up database environments (DEV, QA) after each major release or production change.  • Implemented One node RAC and four node 11g RAC clusters on Linux platform and AIX LPARs having GPFS cooked SAN Storage.  • Provided support to the Database system Infrastructure area that had few critical Business Systems including TR, Bills Order and Tracking, Online Charges.  • Co-ordinate with UNIX administrators and management team for space management, problem resolution, capacity planning, software version control, evaluation and support on various servers.  • Established standby/cloned database via DataGuard for Database Disaster Recovery  • Employed predefined UNIX scripts to cleanup database files such as outdated archived redo logs and trace files out of bdump, udump and audit directories.  • Trouble shoot and Configured Sql*Net files according to client and server settings to transfer data.  • Worked on export/import, data pump and SQL Loader.  • Experienced in installation and configuration of Oracle cluster ware and Automatic Storage Management (ASM) in RAC environment.  • Experience in conversion of Single Node Instance to multimode RAC with ASM, and adding instance to existing RAC.  • Experience in Migration of Oracle Databases from non-RAC to RAC and non-ASM to ASM Instances.  • Experience in Real Application Clusters (RAC) setup with 4 nodes, configuration and cluster interconnection with Automatic Storage Management (ASM).  • Configured and maintained physical standby databases using Oracle Data Guard to perform quick disaster recovery.  • Experience in maintaining DataGuard to provide high availability by implementing physical standby database and snapshot standby and worked with Oracle 11g features, 11g Grid Control.  • Data warehouse analysis and design for diverse legacy system integration.  • Process/workflow analysis, project management from analysis and design for implementation.  • Conceptual data modeling, logical and physical data modeling.  • Extensive performance tuning experience, specializing in Operating System Tuning, SQL Tuning, Database/Instance Tuning.  • Participated in planning and implementation of off-site Disaster-Recovery planning and testing  • Worked with development and operations staff in resolving problems quickly and efficiently  • Oracle GOLDEN GATE for data sharing using EXTRACT, REPLICAT, DATAPUMP, MANAGER PREOCESS for Bidirectional, unidirectional, Broadcasting and consolidation topologies.    TECHNICAL SKILLS    Tuning Tools: TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM  Tools and Utilites: RMAN, OEM, SQL*Loader, EXP, IMP, Data pump,, TOAD, Oracle SQL, Developer  RDBMS: Oracle 9i, 10g, 11g  Operating Systems: HP-UX 10.x, 11.x, 12c, Sun RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x.Linux Enterprise.