Sr. SQL Server DBA Sr. SQL Server DBA Sr. SQL Server DBA - The Tech-Edge Group Atlanta, GA SQL Server Administrator with more than 7 years experiences in Database Administration, System Analysis, Implementing, maintaining SQL Server Solutions, Design and support of MS SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2008R2, 2012, 2014, 2016 in production, Test, Development, Replication and Cluster Environment. A detail-oriented, reliable, responsible and self-motivated individual, seeking for more challenging career goals. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. SQL Server DBA The Tech-Edge Group May 2016 to Present Responsibilities  ? Managing High Availability Disaster Recovery (HADR) solution; Failover Cluster and AlwaysOn Availability Groups, Log Shipping, Replication, and Mirroring.  ? Patching SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2008R2, 2012, 2014, and 2016.  ? Managing assigned project in accordance with the Service Level Agreement (SLA) and Statement of Work (SOW) to ensure related cost and expenses are kept on track with the project schedule  ? Decommissioning of databases that are no longer needed by clients and changing passwords in Linked servers.  ? Performing database creation, database administration tasks such as table creation, inserting, updating, and deleting databases by using T-SQL, creating cluster and non-cluster indexes, setting up user roles and backup and recovery for various client.  ? Create Solution Architecture based upon Microsoft Azure PaaS Services.  ? Designed SSIS Packages to extract, transfer, load (ETL) existing data into SQL Server from different environments for the SSAS cubes.  ? Configured and managed high availability using AlwaysOn High Availability  ? Making processes standardized within clients data operations department including creating documentations for installations, migrations, upgrades, backups, restores, performance tuning and index maintenance  ? Evaluate current infrastructures, propose and implement revisions to improve monitoring strategies for the entire database enterprise.  ? Experience with SQL 2012 AlwaysOn High Availability (HA) and Disaster Recovery (DR) options.  ? Configuring new clusters to handle mission-critical events such as disaster recovery and provide high availability strategies to reduce downtime in the event of any failure.  ? Maintaining all environments (prod, test, training and dev) and proactively monitoring the entire instances and databases for any abnormalities.  ? Use SQL profiler for troubleshooting issues and carrying out root cause analysis on SQL Server database, finding lasting solutions to those problems and documenting findings.  ? Configure and install Windows servers 2016, 2012, 2008 and SQL server 2016, 2014, 2012 and 2008 clusters  ? Participate in on-call rotation with the team while monitoring and troubleshooting 24x7 operations.  ? Mentor less experienced team mates on SQL technology such as RDBMSs, products, utilities, protocols, and techniques.  ? Installation, configuration, maintenance and optimization of SQL server High Availability Disaster Recovery (HADR) solutions.  ? Provide SQL Server database physical model creation and implementation (data type, indexing, and table design).  ? Deploying SQL server 2008, 2008R2, 2012, 2014, and 2016 cluster solutions.  ? Managing SQL Server Database Security environments using Profiles, database Privileges and Roles.  ? Proficient in SQL Server 2008, 2008R2, 2012, 2014, and 2016 database cloning.  ? Participating in SQL Server database systems design and operations.  ? Participating in software upgrades, revisions, patches, and fixes mandated by the vendor.  ? Assisting in the resolution of complex problems in support of production; including on call support.  ? Ensuring that the detailed physical design of database and data structures comply with data policies, standards, principles, and meets the established level of service agreements/goals for the system.  ? Maintaining solid technical skills in RDBMSs, products, utilities, protocols, and techniques.  ? Managing and monitoring SLAs for uptime and performance of SQL Server databases.  ? Demonstrating experience in working on root cause analysis for SQL Server database issues.  ? Flexible, adaptable, and able to managing multiple tasks in a dynamic environment.  ? Proactively monitoring the database systems to ensure secure services with minimum downtime.  ? Proactively monitoring and troubleshooting.  ? Expert working in Virtual Environment using VMWARE for SQL Server.  ? Performing storage maintenance and migration tasks. DBA Get Fabulous Inc December 2012 to February 2016 MS SQL Server)  Responsibilities:  ? Experience with SQL 2012 Always On High Availability (HA) and Disaster Recovery (DR) options  ? Lead efforts of DBA team in stopping spiral of production environment and stabilize the database environment; leading to business continuity.  ? Expertise in Always-On Availability Groups (AAG) and HA/DR Setup and Configuration.  ? Revised and improved current monitoring strategies for the entire database enterprise (Introduced and setup Solarwinds and Sentry One).  ? Standardized processes for the Infrastructure Database team by creating documentations for installations, migrations, upgrades, backups, restores, index maintenance, etc.  ? Lead the efforts of the database team in improving CPU consumption for all critical production database servers by tuning queries, databases, instances, etc. Thereby reducing the CPU workload from a steady 90% to 10%.  ? Mentored less experienced team mates on internal IT policy changes and the technology in general.  ? Revised current HADR strategies and improving them, thereby reducing downtime in the event of any failure.  ? Proficient in performance of SQL Server software new installation and upgrades.  ? Database configuration solutions including installation, configuration, upgrades, capacity planning, performance tuning, backup and recovery in managing clusters of SQL servers.  ? Maintained all environments (prod, test, training and dev). Created and Managed OLAP Cubes using SSAS  ? Troubleshooting issues and carrying out root cause analysis on the issues as well as finding lasting solutions to those problems and documenting findings.  ? Performed frequent health checks for all backups and productions (mission-critical) databases.  ? Created and analyzed daily reports for mission-critical databases.  ? Established escalation policies for the database team.  ? Setting up and managed replication, mirroring, AlwaysOn Availability Group and log shipping.  ? Ensured that all configurations are properly implemented and working based on the company needs (Resource Governor, Policy based management, CMS, etc.).  ? Lead performance tuning and monitored efforts across the enterprise for mission critical applications.    BOSS Dave Engineering Database Administrator January 2012 to January 2013 Responsibilities  ? Installed SQL Server 2008, 2008R2, 2012, 2014, on Windows NT, Server 2003, 2008, 2008r2, 2012R2.  ? Managed datacenter with over 120TB of data and set up various measures to manage the said data including; partitioning, transactional replication, log shipping, mirroring and clustering.  ? Upgraded client RDBMS to SQL server 2008, 2012 and 2012R2.  ? Configured and installed Windows server 2005 and 2008 SQL server 2008, 2012 and 2012R2 clusters.  ? Set up HADR for SQL server 2008 2012 and 2012R2 databases.  ? Used SQL Profiler for troubleshooting, monitoring, optimization of SQL Server and SQL code.  ? Performed various data migration tasks for mission critical databases.  ? Enhanced security control by creating user defined server roles in SQL server 2008 and 2008R2 for clients.  ? Ensured availability of instance and databases via clustering and mirroring.  ? Configuring Active Directory and proper disk configuration.  ? Utilized the "Partially contained database" feature of SQL server 2008 to ease migration and database refreshes for clients.  ? Set up policies to guide database usage in SQL server 2008 2012.  ? Performed DBA duties including: database backups, restores, performance tuning, and capacity analysis  ? Managed the products and development databases including performance tuning, capacity planning, SQL Server clustering, database security configuration, and database continuity  ? Designed, implemented and upgraded SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2012 databases for critical business mission.  ? Developed and optimized stored procedures, triggers, and SSIS packages  ? Troubleshoot databases and custom application issues.  ? Designed the backups and recovery strategies for SQL Server databases to meet our customer SLA requirements.  ? Managed entire project assigned in accordance with the Service Level Agreement (SLA) and Statement of Work (SOW) to ensure all departmental related cost and expenses are kept on track with the project schedule.  ? Managed the entire database environment visibility and accountable for every database decision made to upper level management.  ? Worked with end users to define, implement, and maintain their reporting requirements. Education University of North Georgia - Gainesville, GA Skills DATA MIGRATION, DATABASE, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2008, REPLICATION, DBA, ETL, Sql Dba Additional Information AREAS OF STRENGTH:    Data Migration Disaster Recovery Performance Tuning  Backup and Recovery Database Security High Availability Solutions  Database Upgrades patches Reporting Services Integration Services  VMWare Always ON Mirroring Replication Log Shipping Data Export & Import  T-SQL Stored Procedure    Operating Systems Linux, Unix Windows 10, 7, XP, 2000/2003/2008/Vista/7  Database SQL Server 2008, 2012, 2016, RDBMS  Programming Languages SQL, TSQL, Linux, Unix, Shell Scripting  Office Tools Microsoft Office Suite (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, Project)  Other Tools SSIS, SSRS, Teradata, Azure, AWS, VMware