Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Sr. Oracle <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Oracle Database Administrator - Harvard Piligrim Health Care Glendale, AZ I have over 8+ years of interactive experience in Oracle Database Administration including Installation, Configuration, Patch Installation, Migration, Upgrades, Backup and Recovery, Cloning, Replication, Database Security, Memory Management, Data Modeling, Performance Monitoring and Tuning, RAC, Data Guard, Grid Control, Goldengate. I have worked on Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c versions. Support full SDLC environments.    • Experience in Performing database space management, monitoring, Tuning with Oracle 12c Cloud Control, custom automation scripts, etc.  • Knowledge in monitoring and tuning Sql server databases using the SSMS  • Knowledge in Oracle Exadata  • Implemented and maintained Oracle 11g Data Guard/standby databases for switch-over and fail-over purposes. Created, relocated and removed Services as needed in an Oracle RAC configuration  • Planned disaster recovery scenarios with different recovery procedures and methods like Data Guard & Standby Database.  • Excellent experience in managing large-scale OLTP databases 5+TB size in HA and DR setup  • Performed Uni-directional and Bi-directional replication through Golden Gate for zero downtime Database migrations.  • Knowledge in Exadata  • Expertise in system Monitoring and Performing Tuning Database - Tuning involved I/O, Memory, CPU utilization, SQL Tuning, SGA tuning, Shared Pool tuning, Buffers and Disk I/O tuning using Oracle's regular performance tuning tools like Explain Plan, STATSPACK (perfstat), SQL*Trace, TKPROF, Explain plan, AWR and ADDM reports, Advisors as SQL Tuning, SQL Advisor, Undo Segment, MTTR, Memory.  • Planned and implemented high availability solutions such as Real Application Cluster (RAC) in Oracle 11gR2 Grid and 10g on ASM and OCSF2 file systems.  • Expertise in maintaining Database Security using auditing.  • Managed Oracle 10g & 11g databases in Data warehousing environment.  • Starting/Shutting down the RAC databases and Creating and Relocating RAC database services to instances.  • Monitoring of cluster ware files i.e., OCR files & Voting Disk files.  • Monitoring the ASM instances on the multiple nodes and adding the disk to the disk group when required.  • Experience migration/consolidation of databases using Oracle 12c multitenant.  • Designed and implemented Oracle Real Application Clusters (RAC) on Linux.  • Experienced in installation and configuration of Oracle cluster ware and Automatic Storage Management (ASM) in RAC environment.  • Switchover and Failover RAC database with Data guard Broker  • Experience in conversion of Single Node Instance to multimode RAC with ASM, and adding instance to existing RAC.  • Experience in Migration of Oracle Databases from non-RAC to RAC and non-ASM to ASM Instances.  • Experience in Real Application Clusters (RAC) setup with 4 nodes, configuration and cluster interconnection with Automatic Storage Management (ASM).  • Applied patches (Patch sets and CPU patches) and worked closely  • Performed an upgrade of Oracle Database from 11g to 12c.  • Knowledge of Database Recovery Techniques and implementation of those recovery techniques to ensure business continuity.  • Expertise in implementing data refreshes (at database, schema & table level) using RMAN utility and Datapump, conventional Export/Import of Oracle 11g, 10g.  • Extensively implemented Datapump, conventional Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) for migration and logical backup of database  • Experience in Data Migrations.  • Highly experienced in implementing Oracle's Transportable Tablespace (TTS) feature using Datapump Export/Import (Oracle 11g, 10g) allowing users to quickly move a user Tablespace across Oracle databases.  • Tablespace & Data file creation and Maintenance by Adding and Resizing data file if needed  • Monitoring the Database health check and growth with script.  • Keeping the databases up to date with respect to Latest PSU's and very comfortable in applying patches.  • Responsible for database maintenance, backups, recovery, patching, upgrades and performance tuning, user access control. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Oracle Database Administrator Harvard Piligrim Health Care - Quincy, MA March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:    • Worked onCross Platform Datacentre Migrationfrom Solaris to Linux and Setting up/Installation and configuration of 12.1.0.2 RAC with ASM and Raw Devices.  • Installed and implemented 12c 3 node RACwithData Guard/DG broker.  • Adding a new node to RAC cluster and installed Oracle RDBMS software on new node of cluster and Created ASM volume using ASMCA and created ACFS for Golden Gate 12c.  • Resolved RAC 11g/12c Contention wait types (gc blocks lost, gc buffer busy, grant 2-way).  • Planning and implementing DR &high availability solutions using Oracle 11g/12c Standby Database, Oracle Data guard, 11g/12c RAC.  • Monitored DR (DataGuard) implementations regarding connectivity issues and "log shipping" to failover site.  • Configured 11g R2 and 12c RAC Data Guard and Experience ensuring the high availability, integrity of databases & database designing and assisted in integration of Exadata applications into current IT actionable events and solutions.  • Working Experience in Exadata x3-2, x4-2and migrated databases to Exadata RAC environment  • Implemented Data Guard Broker and performed various operations like Switchover, Stop and Start MRP.  • Upgraded databases from 11g to 12C in QA and Prod environments.  • Cloned databases using RMAN Utility and Created scripts and scheduled backups in Autosys for RMAN database backups and recoveries.  • Applied PSU quarterly on 11g/12c GRID & RDBMS homes using opatch auto and Up-gradation of 11g/12c databases and Implementing catalog backup from RMAN.  • Implemented backup/recover strategies using hot backup, cold backups using RMAN and Export/Import utilities and Wrote Shell Scripting for managing day-to-day activities and automation of backup.  • Daily incremental backups and weekly cumulative backups using RMAN.  • Refreshing of databases using Data Pump Export and Import utilities (expdp/impdp).  • Troubleshooting expdp/impdp errors in a RAC environment, configuring storage accordingly.  • Performed Golden Gate replication monitoring, tuning, and capacity planning.  • Replication of data using Oracle Golden gate and configured Active-Active replication.  • Used CDR parameters to resolve conflicts and performed migration using goldengate v11 and 12c and troubleshooting issues using goldengate.  • Creation of Materialized views and partitioned the database tables to improve reporting performance.  • Creating and dropping of Users, granting and revoking privileges/roles to users as and when required.  • Creating and managing database objects such as tables, indexes, partition tables and views.  • Configured Targets and used OEM to do the daily tasks regarding the performance, maintenance.  • Using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) on daily basis for observing the performance of the production database and actively working on performance and space management issues and accordingly providing on-fly solutions to make database healthy and running.  • Database and Oracle Queryperformance tuning using OEM, AWR, ASH, ADDM, Explain Plan.  • Conducted analysis and feasibility studies for development of Oracle Exadata solutions.  • Done cross platform migration using Export/Import from Sun Solaris to Linux server.  • Configuring TNSNAMES.ORA and LISTENER.ORA for SQL* NET connectivity.  • Diagnosing and troubleshooting database problems such as errors and bugs, performance problems, runaway processes, connectivity problems, poor SQL statements, etc.  • Performing day-to-day activities of Production database such as monitoring its growth and performance and performed maintenance tasks, rebuilding indexes, gathering statistics, refreshing materialized views etc.  • Performed SQL tuning, System tuning, Database and Instance tuning by analysing root causes.  • Data partitioning & tuning queries on large Oracle RAC databases.  • Monitoring the instance statistics and tuning the database to improve performance.  • Use of tools like OEM, STATSPACK, TKPROF, SQL Trace, Explain Plan, AWR and ADDM reports to proactively monitor performance. Backup procedures using RMAN.  • Worked on Advance Security Transparent Data encryption (TDE) 12c and installed Database vault server and database firewall and protected realms.  • Developed table structures, PL*SQL stored procedures and database triggers to implement business rules.  • Managing and providing 24X7 supports for various versions of databases.  • Performed on-call technical support to minimize the impact of system disruptions.    Environment: Oracle 11gR2,12C, RHEL 7.3, Sun Solaris 9, AIX - 6.1, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Grid Control, OEL, OEM Database control, PL/SQL, Oracle SQL Developer, Autosys, Shell Scripting, TOAD, ASM, RAC, Golden Gate, Data Guard. Sr. Oracle DBA ERCOT - Taylor, TX July 2015 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  • Responsible to provide 24 x 7 database administrative activities over different database servers.  • Involved in Capacity planning during implementation of 3 Node RAC.  • Installed11GR2RAC on RHEL 5.8 and involved in migration of databases to RAC environment.  • Migrated Single Instance databases to RAC databases and maintained ASM in RAC environment.  • Created databases in RAC environment and involved in moving databases from TEST to Production Environment.  • Monitoring Health checks of OCR, VOTING DISKS and Interconnect for better performance and troubleshooting issues in RAC environment(11GR2).  • Involved in Tuning the RAC interconnect, Finding RAC wait events and Tuning the RAC using the Enterprise Manager Grid Control.  • Installed DR for 26 databases using Data Guard for Single instance and also in RAC.  • Configured Physical Standby databases using Data guard and converted Physical standby to Snapshot Standby and active data-guard depend on Business Requirement.  • Maintained DR server and troubleshooting issues in Data Guard environment.  • Experience in Administering Oracle Database 10g and 11g using Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM).  • Installed 12C grid control and registered Databases in OEM.  • Enforced Security administration, system monitoring by adding and removing users, configuring quotas, auditing at different levels, and analyzing security problems.  • Applied patching on 10g/11g and Involved in Up-gradation of HP- UNIX databases from 10.2.0.x to 11.2.0.x.(11gr2)  • Used Expdp and Impdp for exporting and importing of database objects between databases.  • Performed data refresh at Schema level using EXPDP.  • Used RMAN for backups and recovery and configured databases in Catalog server and involved in backup of Catalog database.  • Data Refreshfrom Production to Test and Development environments using RMAN Duplicate Database.  • Scheduled Oracle Jobs and Backups using CRONTAB.  • Restoration and Recovery of databases at the times of occurrence of critical failures.  • Performed Block Recovery and Data file recovery using RMAN.  • Involved in Cross platform migration and used Oracle Golden Gate to transfer database from Hp-unix to RHEL.  • Configured Extract and Replicate pumps for Golden gate replication and Troubleshooting issues in GOLDENGATE Environment.  • Daily Health Check Up of the Database and SQL Queries using AWR, ADDM and TKPROF and Tuned the SQL's using TKPROF and STATSPACK reports.  • Involved in fine tuning stored procedures by making use of PL/SQL Collections and its Bulk Fetch and Bulk Insert features.  • Created User accounts, Roles and granting required access permissions and privileges to the database based on the applications they are accessing.  • Configured and Installed Oracle-Wallet-Management (OWM) for Data Security.  • Performance Tuning for the SQL queries which are Running slow and taking more CPU cost  • Performed Quick System Review by using Education Performance Index (EPI), System Performance Index (SPI), Memory Performance Index (MPI). Disk Performance Index (DPI). And calculated the Total Performance Index (TPI).  • Involvement in day to day activities like Space management, rectification ofLock problems, managed quotas, Table partitioning to improve I/O access.  • Assisting in implementation of change control process in production.  • Alert log Monitoring for critical databases every day in the production environment.    Environment: Oracle 11g/10g, HP-UX 7.x/11.x, RHEL 5.x/6.x, ASM, OEM,12C(Grid Control), RAC 11gR2, RMAN and Data Guard, Explain Plan, DATA MASKING, Oracle-Wallet-Management, SQL Developer, PL/SQL Tuning, Data Pump, Business Objects, putty. Oracle Database Administrator Physical Standby April 2013 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Applied patches (Patch sets and CPU patches) and worked closely  • Performed an upgrade of Oracle Database from 11g to 12c.  • Knowledge in monitoring and tuning Sql server databases using the SSMS  • Multiple implementations and migrations of the Exadata Platform (full Rack)  • Disaster Recovery (DR) Plan Implemented using DATAGUARD (Physical Standby) for high availability/disaster recovery purpose on Oracle 11g.  • Performing DR switchover and failover operations.  • Created and monitored Physical standby databases on maximum protection, performance mode using Data guard for Disaster Recovery and High Availability.  • Supported Oracle DB backups (online/offline), logical backups and UNIX scripts, created clone databases, configured standby database, performed DBA day-to-day activities  • Troubleshooting Golden Gate issues in both development and production environments.  • Performed Uni-directional and Bi-directional replication through Golden Gate for zero downtime Database migrations.  • Migrating and upgrading Oracle Database from 10gR1 on Solaris/Windows to 11gR2 on Linux environment using Datapump and Golden Gate replication.  • Experience of installing, configuring Golden Gate Replication from OLTP databases to Datawarehousing environments.  • Refreshed schema using Export/Import. Created the database, tablespace, tables, indexes, set privileges and user logins  • Worked on in house installation of Oracle on different platforms, loaded user data to reproduce the problem, applied new Oracle patch, managed database backup using RMAN, upgraded Oracle database 10.2.0.4 to 11.2.0.1  • Data migration between databases using both Oracle 10g and 11g  • Experience in monitoring and tuning system resources associated with the database performance, hit ratios, I/O, lock, and latch contention.  • Expertise in Performing Tuning Database - Tuning involved I/O, Memory, CPU utilization, SQL Tuning, SGA tuning, Shared Pool tuning, Buffers and Disk I/O tuning using Oracle's regular performance tuning tools like Explain Plan, STATSPACK (perfstat), SQL*Trace, TKPROF.  • Expert in Performance Tuning and Monitoring of Oracle Databases on Unix/Linux platform using database tuning, Tkprof, Explain plan, AWR and ADDM reports, Advisors as SQL Tuning, SQL Advice, Undo, Segment, MTTR, Memory. installation of 11.2.0.1 and 11.2.0.2 and 11.2.0.3 RAC databases on ASM and NFS file systems.  • Experience in system Monitoring and Database Performance Tuning using Explain plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF, AWR and also Cluster Interconnect Tuning (RAC)  • Provided valuable inputs for various performance tuning issues.  • Proficient in performance tuning using Explain Plan, STATSPACK, TKPROF, AWR, ADDM. Performance Tuning of the database (Memory Tuning, I/O Tuning)  • Manage, tune and troubleshoot database issues both on UNIX command line, SQL*Plus, OEM client, Oracle 10g database control, oracle 10g Grid Control as well as other third party tools (TOAD, SQL Developer).  • export/import utility and Oracle 11g exp/imp data pump.  • Implement Oracle 12c new features in mission-critical production environments.  • Administering and setting up of 11g/12c RAC and clusterware and instances.  • Upgraded Oracle GRID, ASM and Database from 10g and 11g to 12c.  • Resolved RAC issues, OCR related issues, rebooting of faulty nodes, relocating the switched over services.  • Database Services creation for distributing the applications across multiple nodes, extensively used all command line utilities SRVCTL, CRSCTL, ADR, ASMCMD.  • Applying CPU/PSU Patches on ERP instance and Plain databases.  • Configuration and maintenance of 11g RAC and Single Instance database environments.  • Installing ASM environment and migrating databases from NON-ASM to ASM.  • Maintained Oracle 11gR2 RAC high availability with ASM file system with Cluster Stat and Grid infrastructure on Linux environments. Database reorganizations and refresh schema-using Export/Import. Creating the database, table spaces, tables, indexes, setting privileges and user logins.  • Upgrading Grid Infrastructure and databases from 11.2.0.1/11.2.0.2/11.2.0.3 to 11.2.0.4.  • Troubleshoot installation errors both independently and with Oracle support (via My oracle Support)  • Create oracle databases on configured servers using both the DBCA & Database creation scripts.  • Monitored and performed database sizing, tablespace management and rollback tablespace management, transaction management and security administration.  • Application design and code is produced with proper integrity, security and performance  • Monitor database systems and provide technical support for database system issues and application performance enhancement/improvement using both OEM (client), Oracle 10g database control & SQL*Plus, as well as pre-developed UNIX shell scripts.  • Cloning of Test/DEV instances from Production systems.  • Analyzed SQL queries causing performance problems.  • Created, Configured, Upgraded And Administered 10.2.0.4/11.2.03 & 12.1 versions Oracle databases on Linux Red Hat and Cent OS on Vmware and bare-metal environments  • Creation and configuration of new database server and database environments.  • Performing Monthly Re-org of complete databases using expdp and impdp  • Participated in meetings for Project Updates/Project Enhancements/Trouble shooting periodically  • Maintaining database and middleware/SOA layer performance by identifying and resolving production and application development problems; calculating optimum values for parameters; evaluating, integrating, and installing new releases.  • DBA supporting three major projects from Development to Production via Tech-Test environments, involving daily configuration, administration all running on IBM AIX 5.3 & 6.1. Database sizes range from 50GB to 3TB (in ODS & EDW environments).    Environment:: Oracle RMAN, Oracle 11g (11.2.0.2), DBMS STATS, Datapump, SQL TRACE, TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN Oracle DBA TE Connectivity - Winston-Salem, NC June 2010 to March 2013 Responsibilities  • Provided Assistance to application team at the time of SQL tuning in applications. Administration of RAC and DATAGUARD databases in Oracle 11g.  • Implemented and maintained Oracle 11g Data Guard/standby databases for switch-over and fail-over purposes. Created, relocated and removed Services as needed in an Oracle RAC configuration  • Running scripts and monitoring the load process to avoid any issues in ETL jobs running for a long duration.  • Monitored Database growth and provide Database capacity planning for applications expansion or necessary re-organization of tables and indexes as and when required.  • Oracle DB System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) planning and Oracle DB 3-Tier architecture.  • Created the database objects such as Tables, Indexes, Views, Database Triggers, Procedures, Functions, etc.  • Performing Database Administration activities like space management, user and roles administration, schema management, checking alert log of all the databases. Installed Oracle 10g and 11g on multiple platforms.  • Performed up-gradation of 10g to 11g.  • Performed traditional Cold backup in appropriate environments via OS commands as well as logical exports.  • Automated routine DBA tasks like backup's and stats by using Grid control job's  • Setup RMAN solutions for all Oracle Databases -- created rman repository, provided best practices, optimizations and data guard and cloning techniques -- restore and recovery.  • Adding and removing nodes to existing Oracle database RAC configurations  • Worked closely with diverse application development groups and served as single point of contact for testing, tuning and implementing projects / solutions in production environment  • Cloned and maintained multiple Oracle Database environments for Development, Testing & UAT.  • Carried out yearly DR Testing of Oracle ERP Systems / Critical Oracle Databases.  • Applied various database / applications PSU / CPU patches as required. Also applied monthly vertex updates.  • Performed activities like monitoring the database and provide maximum uptime.  • Created and granted users the privileges and roles and resizing the datafiles to manage database growth.  • Defined and implemented database backup and security strategies, tested the backups periodically for consistency and reliability  • Identified long-running database queries, refining queries for better performance, and working with end- users to implement changes  • Created primary database objects (tables, views, indexes) once application developers have designed an application  • Monitor database systems and provide technical support for database system issues and application performance enhancement/improvement using both Oracle 10g Grid Control & SQL*Plus, as well as UNIX shell scripts.    Environment: RHEL 4.4, HP-UX, 10g, and 11g, Oracle 10g/11g RAC, ASM, Data Guard, Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM), RMAN, ASM, STATSPACK, EXPLAIN PLAN, TOAD, ERWIN 7.2, Autosys, Golden Gate, SQL*Plus, PL/SQL, SQL*Loader Education Bachelor's Skills DATABASE (7 years), ORACLE (7 years), RMAN (7 years), SQL (7 years), UNIX (6 years) Additional Information Operating Systems: HP-UX 10.x, 11.x. Sun Solaris 2.5, 2.6, 8, 9, 10. AIX 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 6.1 RHEL 2.1, 3.x, 4.x, 5.x. Linux Enterprise Server 9, 10. Windows 95/98/NT/2000  RDBMS: Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c, MSSQL SERVER, MYSQL  Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting, PERL  Tools: TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM.Toad, Putty, NX client, Winscp, sql server management studio(SSMS)  Database Utilities: SQL*Plus, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Real Application Cluster, ASM, Transportable Tablespaces, SQL*Loader, RMAN, DataPump, Export, Import