SQL Server Database Administrator SQL Server <span class="hl">Database</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Auburn, GA I am seeking a position as a SQL Server Database Administrator. I have over 6 years of experience with SQL Server. My core experiences are in the areas of Data Migration, Database Performance Tuning, Backup and Recovery, Database Security, Database maintenance, Indexing, SSRS, Integration Services (SSIS), Database Development, SQL Server Azure, AlwaysOn Availability Groups, Replication, Database Mirroring and Log Shipping. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL Server Database Administrator Ricoh Global August 2015 to Present • Developed Backup strategies and Recovery solutions.  • Analyzed the physical model and employed best practices in creating a complete schema including tables, relationships, stored procedures, and views, clustered and non-clustered indexes.  • Performance Tuning using SQL Profiler and Database Engine tuning advisor.  • Installed and configured SQL server 2008R2, 2012 and 2014 in various environments.  • Assisting with capacity planning and storage space management.  • Developing and writing TSQL, Views, Stored Procedures, Functions.  • Provided 24x7 business-critical production server environments support (on-call).  • Creating and Implementing Databases, Tables, Schemas, Indexes, and Constraints.  • Provided database Development support including query analysis and optimization.  • Performing Data Import and Export Operations using SSIS.  • Monitored and maintained database performance using System monitor, event viewer, SQL profiler, database tuning adviser.  • Setting up and monitoring Replication (transactional, snapshot, and merge).  • Configuring database mirroring (synchronous and asynchronous)  • Migration of On-premises databases to SQL Server Azure.  • Implemented Security Management policy including creating and managing roles, users, logins and granting rights.  • Troubleshooting agent job failures  • Detecting and resolving blocking issues  • Setting up and monitoring AlwaysOn availability groups  • Experience with monitoring and troubleshooting 24x7 operations. Inventory Control Carter's DC July 2014 to July 2015 for processing and tracking of inbound/outbound inventories and other resources.  • Tracked products as they are replenished and stocked according to demand and priority.  • Moved products from the deep reserve to prime and vice versa when necessary as demands changed.  • Auto-marked out, re-billed customers, and controlled damage of all products in inventory.  • Assisted order filler/pickers in the fulfillment of customer orders.  • Verified product location using barcode scanners and other computerized systems.  • Always maintained a clean and safe work environment. Education Certification in Database Administration Dove Technology February 2019 to July 2019 Bachelor's in Business Administration/Marketing University of Georgia - Terry College of Business - Athens, GA August 2015 to December 2017 Skills Sql Server, DBA, Sql Database, Sql Dba, Ssis