Insight Global - Business System Analyst contracted Insight Global - Business System Analyst contracted Business Analyst Denver, CO Looking for opportunities to provide in depth support and assist clients in application consolidation and enhancement endeavors, improving profitability levels by making suggestions in cross functional and business areas.  My strengths include business process improvement, risk compliance, User experience (UX) design, able to work on numerous projects simultaneously including project management activities in ERP implantation including waterfall and agile SCRUM methodology for software development lifecycle. Work Experience Insight Global - Business System Analyst contracted Wells Fargo Bank - Office June 2017 to September 2018 of CIO    Began working as a Business Analyst on ERP implementation project working within in Agile SCRUM methodology environment and testing and developing business and functional requirements for the User experience (UX) design and web based applications for salesforce executives and CIOs.  Accomplishments:  I generated 7 business requirement documentation (BRD), 5 Functional Specification design documentation (FSD), across several work streams and supported the risk and regulatory application compliance issues  Became a technical requirement SME (subject matter expert) based on my requirements gathering and documenations.  Successfully completed data migration of current database into Oracle enterprise data warehouse for existing scheduled reports using SSRS reporting tools. Assisted system architects and system architects in creating documentation to data management stating the "To Be" or future state of the table schema designs.  Responsibilities:  Supporting the transformation PMO and brokerage technology offices with system requirements gathering, data analysis of specific UI/UX technical redesign and business needs to ensure risk and regulatory functional compliance.  Working to stay compliant with standardizing and rationalizing UI/UX applications across the enterprise by effectively communicating between both business and technology partner to synthesize their needs.  Elicit and develop business and functional requirements which consist of over 3,000 projects and report on and divide up by amongst business analyst team and CIOs to complete project plans in short intervals.  Responsible for reviewing current end user reporting data using SSRS data tools and documenting for business stakeholders, developers or decision makers on ways to increase efficiency in utilizing the existing enterprise data warehouse and creating new SQL login and permissions to for end users to access reports.  Document user functional requirements and translate into user case scenarios for development testing. Database Administrator Security One Solutions April 2015 to April 2016 Fannie Mae - Security Operations and Biometric Technology  Transition to Biometrics Security, working with risk and software compliance to update software and product licensing, costs and optimizing software asset management capabilities that added referential integrity to company data. I began managing the workflows and risk-based systems, by developing technical documentation, and test plans, specific to product development strategies and training for users/clients.  Provided business system analysis and using content development and implement specific product structure strategies to target development of the digital products. Installed the upgraded visitor management system with successful user interface (UI) compatibility testing and graphical user guides for ongoing development.  Perform troubleshooting to correct programming bugs and overnight system defects.  Worked closely with developers to create and design databases. Designed tables and indexes to normalize database and maximize performance using integration services - SSIS SQL data tools.  Extract data from SharePoint document libraries and load into SQL Server and deploy models into SQL Server SSAS instance. Creating SSRS reports using tabular module to prove database functionality.  Provide technical assistance to team on various MS queries and support ad hoc request/reports. Maintained IT SharePoint /Web Page for easier access to documents.  Prepared materials and trained operations and implementation groups for new Biometric and Security Reservation control software. Database Architect Alion Science & Technology August 2013 to April 2015 Lead Architect of the day to day tactical client operation teams.  Accomplishments:  Provided Client (NAVSEA) with SharePoint access generated survey model to gather all service delivery processes and critical data needed for reporting and special projects. It provided accurate and timely metrics allowing a new reporting strategy that enhanced sign off approval of outgoing work and ensured all Service Level Agreements are met.  Developed database design applications for NAVSEA/NAVSEA 05 workload model for unplanned events and workload demand forecasting based on historical data.  Create interfaces for data transfer mechanisms, global temporary tables, load-balancing processes to access generic database structure.  Support business applications and database design by enforcing database development standards for shipbuilding.  Develop dataset designs for data retrieval and to create future workforce structure projects.  Transforming Crystal Reports into Telerik Reporting Software tools using Microsoft Visual Studios 2012 and utilizing SQL stored procedures. For the LPD project using the current LPD database. Performing Extraction, Translation and Load balance tools to recreate the reports into the Telerik Software. Data Warehouse Architect URAC December 2010 to March 2013 Accomplishments:  Participated in new business features to support field workers in transformation of legacy data and file systems. I received certification in SAS 9.2 tool to create ad hoc statistical queries and reports, pulled from the SQL based business intelligence tool and exported to excel or SharePoint Dashboards for business consumption.  Configured queries and reports using Microsoft SQL Server Management Configurations, and maintained integrity of the Metadata Management in SAS 9.2, Data Modeling and Data Quality of Microsoft: SharePoint 2010.  Implementation and design of SharePoint 2010 web portal Design and Implementation of SharePoint 2010 for collaboration and report document management.  Performed enterprise data warehouse cleanup by extracting data from source systems and transforming data to meet business/functional requirements and loading into new database systems (such as SharePoint). Database Administrator III Northrop Grumman June 2010 to October 2010 Accomplishments:  As part of the application service delivery team for deployment of quality database solutions, I provided software test records and permanent change reports for customers.  Perform back and recovery and tuning of indexes and databases in adherence to corporate policies, procedures and standards.  Using VBA programming to create and maintain ad hoc queries, reports, forms, tables while making updating and maintaining version controls for the various departmental databases.  Analysis, design and implementation and testing of Microsoft access databases and SAP transactions and forms. Business System Analyst AOL August 2008 to November 2009 As a change management specialist, I partnered with the organizational teams and company to implement ongoing changes to achieve organizational training guides needs for users.  Prepare team proposals and gather sample documentation and materials using the knowledge exchange for items such as graphics and statements of work.  Create company organizational chart while updating and maintaining resume documentation on the SharePoint site database website.  Conducted staff training sessions and standards using a metrics of work or standard of work (SOW) for the implementation of Hyperion software. Financial Business Analyst Sunrise Senior Living June 2006 to February 2007 Transition from PeopleSoft 7.5 into PeopleSoft 8.8 software upgrade, responsible for advising private companies and government agencies in terms of financial and investment groups related to reporting needs.  Accomplishments:  Generated financial data that is used by management that foster business growth to include financial reports, presenting data to executives, making recommendations that setup financial data security and analysis procedures.  Help Desk support via Heat and Magic Ticketing System, email and phone.  Created combo edit and system crosswalk reference table to ensure seamless transition from 7.5 to 8.8.  Responsible for moving, tuning, testing, and reconciling nVision and Query reports daily while maintaining the layouts, scopes, report requests and queries for reports.  Develop client specific PeopleSoft system test scripts based on application development, client expectations and researching/ analyzing specific business requirements.  Troubleshooting ad hoc report queries and reports from PeopleSoft network drive to LAN daily. Education Bachelor Degree in Information Technology Old Dominion University May 2006